22 April  2021 
EMA/300397/2021  
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Akynzeo  
fosnetupitant / netupitant / palonosetron 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/003728/P46/004.1 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially  confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Am sterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ...................................................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ........................................................................... 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ...............................................................3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ...............................3 
2.3. Clinical aspects ....................................................................................................4 
2.3.1. Introduction ......................................................................................................4 
2.3.2. Clinical study ....................................................................................................5 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 15 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ....................................15 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 25 August 2020, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study (NEPA-15-31) for Akynzeo 
300mg Netupitant/0.5mg Palonosetron hard capsules, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended. This application was assessed as part or Procedure 
EMA/H/C/003728/P46/0004. 
Following the initial assessment of that submission, two questions remained for the applicant to 
address, namely the characterisation of the safety profile of the excipients used in the product with 
respect to their use in children below the age of 3 years, and confirmation that two patients in the 
study had indeed received the correct dose of the product in the clinical trials. 
Following on from this, the Applicant has submitted this application to clarity these remaining issues. 
As such, this report  should be considered in the context of the original application. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information  on the development  program 
The MAH stated that NEPA-15-31, A multicentre, multinational, randomized, double-blind, 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) dose-finding study of oral netupitant administered 
concomitantly with oral palonosetron in paediatric cancer patients for the prevention of nausea and 
vomiting associated with emetogenic chemotherapy is part of an ongoing paediatric clinical 
development program in accordance with Paediatric Investigation Plan, EMEA-001198-PIP03-17. 
2.2.  Information  on the pharmaceutical  formulation  used in the study 
The 3 investigational medicinal products (IMPs) used during the study are shown below: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
Identity of Investigational Medicinal Products 
Name: 
Dosage form: 
Strength: 
Dosing: 
Oral Netupitant (IMP 1) 
Glass vial with liquid formulation (suspension) 
100 mg netupitant / 7 mL 
Netupitant was administered based on BW as a single oral dose 1 hour 
(±10 minutes) prior to the start of emetogenic chemotherapy on Day 1 
Route of administration: 
Oral 
Name: 
Dosage form: 
Strength: 
Dosing: 
Oral Netupitant (IMP 2) 
Glass vial with liquid formulation (suspension) 
300 mg netupitant / 7 mL 
Netupitant was administered based on BW as a single oral dose 1 hour 
(±10 minutes) prior to the start of emetogenic chemotherapy on Day 1 
Route of administration: 
Oral 
Name: 
Dosage form: 
Strength: 
Dosing: 
Oral Palonosetron (IMP 3) 
Glass vial with liquid formulation (solution) 
0.75 mg palonosetron / 5 mL (oral administration of the 0.75 mg/5 mL 
solution for IV use) 
Palonosetron was administered based on BW at the dosage of 20 μg/kg 
(up   to   a   maximum   of   1.5 mg   for   patients   weighing   ≥75   kg), 
immediately   (within   5    minutes)   after   netupitant,   i.e.,   1   hour 
(±10 minutes) prior to start of emetogenic chemotherapy on Day 1
Route of administration: 
Oral 
Abbreviations: BW = body weight; IMP = investigational medicinal product; IV = intravenous. 
2.3.  Clinical  aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH originally submitted a final report for: 
• 
NEPA-15-31, A multicentre, multinational, randomized, double-blind, pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) dose-finding study of oral netupitant administered concomitantly with oral 
palonosetron in paediatric cancer patients for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with 
emetogenic chemotherapy. 
At the conclusion of the original assessment, the CHMP was satisfied that the Post-authorisation 
measure had been fulfilled. However, there remained some aspects of the application which required 
further clarification, these were put to the applicant as follows; 
Some minor points remain, primarily  relating to the clarification of the safety profile of the excipients 
chosen for use in paediatric  patients below the age of 3 years, and the exceptionally high exposure 
seen in two younger patient receiving the lower (1.33mg/Kg) netupitant dose. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant is requested to provide  a more detailed description of the safety profile  of the excipients 
used, with particular regard  to patients below the age of 3 years, as it is not clear whether the 
established safety profile  of these substances in older children can be reliably  extrapolated into this 
population (OC) 
The applicant is asked to confirm that patient #101168 and #301141 both received the correct dose, 
and if so discuss the possible reasons for the exceptionally high Cmax seen in those patients. (OC) 
The applicant has reverted with additional clarifications regarding these two remaining questions. 
2.3.2.  Clinical  study 
Please see the parent procedure EMA/H/C/003728/P46/0004 for details on the clinical study originally 
submitted as aprt of the now-fulfilled post-authorisation measure. 
As regards the two outstanding issues, the response of the applicant and the assessor’s comments 
therein are summarised below. 
Question 1 
The applicant is requested to provide a more detailed description of the safety profile of the excipients 
used, with particular regard to patients below the age of 3 years, as it is not clear whether the 
established safety profile of these substances in older children can be reliably  extrapolated into this 
population (OC) 
Summary of Applicant’s Response 
The applicant has further investigated the available information for each excipients used in the IMPs 
formulation in order to provide more detailed description. Reference has been made to the existing 
safety data from adult human and paediatric population and the corresponding use data in order to 
perform a comprehensive safety assessment including the safety concerns and risk from the use of the 
chosen excipients in the overall paediatric population. 
Several sources of information have been used including publications and guidances, national 
databases related to approved drug products (dailymed, eMC, EMA), approved drug product excipients 
(FDA inactive ingredients database) and regulations on food additives and flavoring (e.g., EFSA 
Scientific Assessments, Joint Expert committee on food additives (JECFA); US FDA GRAS list) to 
determine the safety profile of these substances and the risks for all the paediatric age groups with a 
focus on the youngest ones (e.g. age below 3 years or age groups below 5 years). 
The applicant is also aware that a reference list on excipients generally considered safe for use in 
paediatric formulations is not available yet and therefore this was a rationale for selecting only 
compendial grade excipients recognized as safe (GRAS) and extensively used in children, taking into 
account that excipients are necessary ingredients of drug products particularly in oral paediatric 
formulations where taste remains a key aspect to ensure compliance and the delivery of the 
therapeutic dose; this also combined to the need to limit the number and amount of each excipient to 
the minimum necessary. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As first step, an evaluation has been performed on the broad use of all the excipients chosen for 
Netupitant Paediatric Oral Suspension in pharmaceutical oral dosage forms for approved drug products, 
their Maximum Daily Exposure (MDE) or, when this is not specified, the Maximum Potency per unit 
dose (data are from FDA inactive ingredients database).  A summary is presented in Table 1 below. 
The most commonly used excipients are polyalcohol such as Glycerin and Sorbitol for which MDEs of 
31536 mg (for solutions) and 45000 mg (for suspension) oral dosage forms) are reported, 
respectively. 
For these ingredients (except for potassium sorbate) an acceptable daily intake (ADI) level has been 
specified which is the safest category possible. 
Among other excipients the lowest MDEs are reported for Potassium Sorbate (120 mg) and Xanthan 
Gum (184 mg), while those related to Citric Acid and its tribasic salt (510 mg and 984 mg, 
respectively) are specified for Intravenous Injection only.  
In addition to the information available on the level of excipients in oral dosage forms approved for 
human medicines and their MDE, a brief summary of the dosage or exposure level from literature or 
food additives and flavoring regulations is summarized below  for each excipient since they are all also 
commonly used as food additives for the overall population including children and elderly. 
Glycerol 
In a study [Peltola et al, 2007], oral administration of 85% glycerol given for 48 h at a dosage of 1.5 g 
(1.5 mL) per kg every 6 h in children aged from 2 months through 16 years was considered safe. The 
EFSA recently conducted a re-evaluation of glycerol (E 422) as a food additive; the Panel stated that 
glycerol has low acute toxicity and did not raise concern with regards to genotoxicity and 
carcinogenicity. The Panel conservatively considered the lowest oral dose of glycerol required for 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
 
 
therapeutic effect to be 125 mg/kg bw (body weight) per hour and noted that infants and toddlers can 
be exposed to that dose by drinking less than the volume of one can (330 mL) of a flavoured drink. 
The Panel further concluded that the acute bolus exposure to glycerol by its use as a food additive 
should stay below  doses at which pharmacological or side effects could occur and there is no need for a 
numerical ADI and no safety concern regarding the use of glycerol (E 422) as a food additive at the 
reﬁned exposure assessment for the reported uses [EFSA, 2017]. The Panel estimated chronic 
exposure to glycerol (E 422) for the following population groups: infants; toddlers, children, 
adolescents, adults and the elderly, a summary is provided below. 
In this assessment, mean exposure to glycerol ranged from 10 mg/kg bw per day in infants to 583 
mg/kg bw per day in toddlers below the age of 3 years. 
Sorbitol 
Although there is no maximum  safe dose for sorbitol, it is suggested that the maximum  daily intake 
should not exceed 20 g/day in adults [Rowe et al, 2006]. The reported side effects of sorbitol, 
especially when consumed in excessive amounts, in children include diarrhoea, colic and bloating [Jain 
et al, 1985]. Sorbitol is one of the most prevalent nutrients in fruit juice which often are recommended 
by paediatricians as a source of vitamin C and an extra source of water for healthy infants and young 
children [Pediatrics, 2001]. The recommended maximal  intake of sorbitol in adults is 20 g/day. Using 
the weight of an ‘‘average’’ adult male (70 kg) as the denominator, the adult recommendations equate 
to 2 g of sorbitol/kg body weight/week [Whittaker et al, 2009]. However, it is recognized that over the 
threshold of 140 mg/kg/day (equivalent of 10 g/70 kg) it can cause laxative effects and 
gastrointestinal discomfort in adults and paediatric patients as stated in the relevant guideline on the 
Information in the package leaflet [EMA/CHMP/460886/2014]. 
Xanthan gum 
In 2017 EFSA performed a safety review on xanthan gum as a food additive. The Panel concluded that 
there is no need for a numerical ADI for xanthan gum (E 415) and no safety concern at the refined 
exposure assessment for the reported uses and use levels of xanthan gum as a food additive. It is 
reported that repeated oral intake by adults of large amounts of xanthan gum up to 15,000 mg/person 
per day, corresponding to 214 mg/kg bw per day for at least ten days was well tolerated. In several 
clinical studies, consumption of xanthan gum in infant formula or formula for special medical purposes 
in infant was well tolerated up to concentration of 1,500 mg/L (232 mg/kg bw per day). 
Potassium sorbate 
Potassium sorbate is widely used as a chemical preservative and antibacterial in food, wines and 
personal-care products and due to its long history as a food additive with no apparent toxic effects, it 
recognized as GRAS [21 CFR 182.3640]. The maximal  acceptable daily intake for human consumption 
was established to be 25 mg/kg [FAO, 2013]. The EFSA recently issued a scientific opinion re-
evaluating sorbic acid (E 200), potassium sorbate (E 202) and calcium sorbate (E 203) when used as 
food additives [EFSA, 2019]. The Panel was requested by the European Commission to carry out a 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
scientific evaluation of an extended one-generation reproductive toxicity study (EOGRTS) to determine 
whether it would allow reconsideration of the temporary  group acceptable daily intake (ADI) for sorbic 
acid (E 200) and potassium sorbate (E 202), established by the Panel on Food Additives and Nutrient 
Sources added to Food (ANS Panel) in 2015. From the EOGTRS, the FAF Panel identified a lower 
confidence limit of the benchmark dose (BMDL) of 1,110 mg sorbic acid/kg body weight (bw) per day. 
By applying a default uncertainty factor of 100, the Panel established a group ADI expressed as 11 mg 
sorbic acid/kg bw per day for sorbic acid (E 200) and its potassium salt (E 202). 
In this assessment, mean exposure to sorbate ranged from 7.7 mg/kg bw per day in infants to 583 
mg/kg bw per day in toddlers below the age of 3 years. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall assessment and conclusion 
The Applicant has evaluated the intake levels and the safety for all the excipients used in Netupitant 
Paediatric Oral Suspension for all age groups including their potential safety concerns and associated 
risk and those TAE of interest (SOC Gastrointestinal Disorders) in the paediatric patients below 3 
years of age. No concerns arise from these assessments nor from the search in literature or 
guidances on their adequate use in paediatric oral formulations. 
It should be noted that in comparison to other paediatric medicines, the dosage regimen for 
Netupitant Paediatric Oral Suspension is based on a single administration before each chemotherapy 
cycle to prevent CINV. The suspension is not intended for BID or TID regimen, or multiple days 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration such other medicines of the same class (ondansetron, emend) or commonly used in 
paediatry (antivirals, allergic rhinitis, epilepsy). Therefore, no risk can be associated to a multiple 
day administration as these medicines given daily, weekly or even longer period which would 
necessarily expose patients to excipients higher doses and their potential adverse effects. Even 
when the amount of the excipients is the same of another formulation for the same route this does 
not imply the level of risk would be the same. For sorbitol which is considered a potentially harmful 
excipient in the youngest children if it is given at high doses, data from databases related to 
approved drug products (dailymed, eMC, EMA) indicate that it is safely use being administered in all 
paediatric age groups (including neonates). From this search emerges over 70 products containing 
sorbitol at different dose levels, and a large number of medicines is approved for paediatric use. 
A comparison of the dose levels in Netupitant Paediatric Oral Suspension versus well established oral 
paediatric approved products is given in Table 8 and Table 9. 
Based on this comparison,  we believe the dose level of sorbitol (as well as all the other excipients) 
in Netupitant Paediatric Oral Suspension single dose regimen can be safe for the overall paediatric 
population with no Hereditary Fructose Intolerance (HFI). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment of the response 
While the comparison of the composition of netupitant versus other medicines licensed in Europe for 
use in the paediatric population is noted and understood, it is important to remember  that many 
medicines for use in this population were licensed prior  to the introduction of the Paediatric Regulation 
1901 of 2006, and as such there may not have been the same appreciation of the specific 
requirements for appropriate  evidence supporting the licensing of age-appropriate formulations for the 
various age cohorts, nor the characterisation of the safety profile of the excipients used in those 
various products. As such, existing medicines for a specific age cohort containing a specific excipient is 
not in itselfinsufficient justification, and therefore can only be considered as supportive. 
The applicant has detailed the function and amount of each excipient used in the netupitant 
formulation, and also has calculated the amount per Kg bodyweight which would be expected to be 
administered to children of typical bodyweight for the various paediatric age cohorts in which the 
product is intended to be used. They have also compared this amount to the amounts considered to be 
safe, as published in the various compendia, pharmacopoeias,  and guidance documents which contain 
information related to the known or presumed safe Maximum Daily Exposure (MDE) level. For some of 
these, the only reference texts available relate to the amounts of the various excipients which are 
considered safe for use in foods, and while this is not ideal it can be accepted that this is the currently 
best available evidence supporting these reference values. As such, these can be accepted. It can be 
seen from the applicant’s calculations that the amounts anticipated to be administered fall comfortably 
within these reference ranges. In addition, as the product is likely to be used as a single dose on 
different occasions generally separated in time, any risk of accumulation is likely to be low. While it 
might have been ideal for the applicant to clarify the known pharmacokinetics of the various excipients 
with a view to describing how these might differ in the various paediatric age cohorts, it is accepted on 
this occasion that the amounts being used and the dosing intervals allowed are such as to minimise 
any concerns from a clinical perspective. Justification of the safety of the proposed excipient levels 
based on the basis of available/calculated permitted daily exposures (PDEs) would be more preferable 
from a risk assessment perspective. Maximum daily exposure limits in other products will have been 
based on a benefit/risk assessment for that particular drug product and the patient population and 
indication. Nevertheless, based on the additional information and assessment provided by the MAH the 
proposed levels appeared justified. 
Applicants should remain mindful of the advice contained within the guidance on the development of 
medicines for use in the paediatric population, which advises that a proper  justification for the choice 
and amounts of all excipients used in a paediatric formulation should be presented, and that only those 
excipients which are essential to ensure the proper  functioning and acceptability of the product should 
be included in the formulation. In general, a full characterisation of the safety aspects of those 
excipients in all relevant paediatric populations should be provided, taking into account the anticipated 
developmental and metabolic differences which exist at the various age cohorts, especially neonates 
and infants. It is also important for applicants to indicate any areas where information on this is either 
unavailable or uncertain. This allows a full assessment of the benefits and potential risks of the use of 
that formulation in the various paediatric age cohorts to be made. Applicants are reminded of the 
requirements set out in the Guideline on pharmaceutical development of medicines for paediatric use 
(EMA/CHMP/QWP/805880/2012 Rev. 2), as well as the other relevant QWP guidelines. 
Overall, despite the deficiencies in the response, the conclusions of the assessor is that the nature of 
the product and the levels of the excipients are such as to conclude that the benefit/risk profile of this 
product for this particular condition is positive. 
13 
 
 
 
Overall conclusion 
Issue Resolved 
Question 2 
The clarification by the applicant regarding the reason for the apparent differences between the PK 
profiles of the lower  netupitant dose in younger children versus other groups is plausible and can be 
accepted. However, while it is accepted that inter-patient variability might have played a part in the 
apparently increased exposure of the two patients to the medicine, the levels of both Cmax and AUC 
seem significantly high as to wonder whether any dosing errors occurred in these patients. 
The applicant is asked to confirm that the patients did indeed receive the correct dose, and if so 
comment on the reasons why the observed values were so beyond what might have been expected 
given the known degree of variability of netupitant. 
Summary of Applicant’s Response 
According to the information reported in the eCRFs of patients #101168 and #301141 of the 6 months 
to < 12 months age class, dosing errors could be excluded. 
Reasons that may explain higher netupitant exposure (Cmax and AUC0-inf) in these patients may refer 
to the known inter-patient variability of netupitant pharmacokinetics and, possibly, to potential drug 
interactions with concomitant therapies. 
The eCRFs indicate that before receiving the oral NEPA treatment, patients #101168 and #301141 
were exposed to drugs characterized by strong CYP3A4 inhibition properties such as the antimycotic 
drugs fluconazole (#101168 only) and posaconazole (both #101168 and #301141). Treatment with 
fluconazole and posaconazole was terminated 11 days before NEPA administration, according to the 
study protocol.  However, a possible residual drug interaction with fluconazole and posaconazole cannot 
be excluded. This might have contributed to explain higher netupitant exposure for patients #101168 
and #301141, this latter in particular. The other two patients in the same age class, i.e., #302125 and 
#404150, who did not show increased netupitant Cmax  and AUC0-inf, did not receive any concomitant 
medications that may have affected netupitant exposure. 
Exposure data for netupitant metabolites M1, M2 and M3 appear to support this hypothesis. The table 
below shows that the AUC0-inf and Cmax  metabolite-to-netupitant ratios for patients #101168 and 
#301141 are remarkably  lower than those estimated for the other two patients of the 6 months to < 
12 months age class, suggesting a reduced metabolism  in these patients that may explain the higher 
exposure to the parent drug. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/300397/2021  
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
