EMA/760390/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Abasaglar1 (insulin glargine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Abasaglar, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Abasaglar is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Abasaglar, which can be found on Abasaglar’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Abasaglar is a medicine used to treat diabetes in adults and children over the age of two. Diabetes is a 
condition in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of glucose (sugar) in 
the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively.   
There are two types of diabetes, type 1 and type 2: 
• 
• 
Type 1 is less common (5%-10% of patients). In 2010, about 112,000 children under 14 years of 
age in Europe were estimated to have this condition. It is usually diagnosed early in life and 
commonly runs in families.   
Type 2 is more common (90%-95% of patients). In 2010, about 1 out of every 15 adults in Europe 
had this condition. Type 2 diabetes is more likely to develop in people who have family members 
with the condition, people with an ethnic background known to be associated with a higher risk (for 
example Asian or African), people aged over 40 years old or who are overweight or obese, do not 
exercise, have high blood pressure or smoke. 
People with diabetes are at greater risk of developing conditions such as cardiovascular disorders, 
neurological (nervous system) disorders, diabetic eye disease and kidney disease. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Abasaglar contains the active substance insulin glargine. It is a biosimilar medicine, which means it is 
similar to a biological medicine (also known as the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in 
the European Union (EU). The reference medicine for Abasaglar is Lantus, which also contains insulin 
glargine, and studies were designed to compare Abasaglar with Lantus.   
Studies were carried out to show that the way Abasaglar is absorbed into the body and the way it acts 
on blood glucose were similar to Lantus. In addition, treatment with once-daily Abasaglar has been 
shown to be comparable to the reference medicine, Lantus, in two supportive studies involving a total 
of 1,295 adults with diabetes. In one study in 536 patients with type 1 diabetes, Abasaglar was 
compared with Lantus when added to short-acting insulin treatment. In the second study in 759 
patients with type 2 diabetes, treatment with Abasaglar was compared with Lantus as an addition to 
1 Previously known as Abasria. 
Page 1/3 
 
 
                                                      
diabetes medicines taken by mouth. Both studies showed that Abasaglar was of benefit in controlling 
blood glucose and was comparable in its effect to Lantus. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Because the studies with Abasaglar were designed to establish its similarity to Lantus, any 
uncertainties regarding its benefits are considered to be the same as for the reference medicine.. 
There are no studies of the use of Abasaglar in pregnancy and in children below 2 years of age. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Low blood 
Low blood sugar is the most common 
Blood glucose levels should be monitored 
sugar 
side effect of treating diabetes with 
regularly, and the timing and dose of 
insulin and is seen in more than 1 
insulin should be adjusted to take 
patient in 10 treated with insulin 
account of the blood-glucose reading, as 
glargine. It is associated with feeling sick 
well as mealtimes and exercise 
(nauseous), confused, lightheaded, 
regimens.   
dizzy, and jittery. If the patient does not 
eat some carbohydrate, more serious 
symptoms, like passing out or, rarely, 
having a seizure, can occur. 
Allergic 
Immediate allergic reactions to insulin 
The product information for Abasaglar 
reaction to the 
(including insulin glargine) are rare, 
contains warnings for doctors and 
medicine 
affecting up to 1 patient in 1000, but 
patients on the possible risks of allergic 
may include  skin reactions such as 
reactions. Patients must not use this 
itching and rash, swelling of tissue 
medicine if they are allergic to it or to 
around the neck, face, mouth and/or 
any of its ingredients.   
throat, difficulty breathing, low blood 
pressure and shock, all of which may 
become life-threatening. 
Reactions at 
Reactions at the injection site, such as 
The product information for Abasaglar 
the injection 
redness, swelling, soreness, and itching 
contains warnings for doctors and 
site   
are common (seen in up to 1 patient in 
patients on the likelihood of injection site 
10). 
reactions.  
Taking the 
It is possible that patients who need to 
The insulin label must always be checked 
wrong kind of 
inject both a long-acting insulin and 
before each injection to ensure the right 
insulin 
regular mealtime insulin may inject the 
insulin is injected. 
(medication 
wrong insulin. There are also reports of 
error) 
patients not knowing the exact brand 
(type) of insulin they are supposed to be 
taking. 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
Cancer 
What is known  
Some data have suggested that there may be a small increased risk of cancer 
(malignancies) 
with insulin glargine treatment. However, results from a recent large long-
term study in patients with pre-diabetes or diabetes called the ORIGIN trial 
showed that there was no difference in cancer risk when therapy with insulin 
glargine was compared with usual care. 
Antibody 
Taking insulin (including insulin glargine) may cause the immune system (the 
development 
body’s natural defences) to produce antibodies targeted against insulin. In 
(immunogenicity) 
rare cases, these antibodies can neutralise the effects of insulin so that the 
doctor has to change the type of insulin or the insulin dose. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in pregnancy 
Abasaglar has not been studied in pregnant or breastfeeding women. 
However, results in some women who have used insulin glargine during 
pregnancy have not linked its use to any specific harmful effects on pregnancy 
or the developing baby. As careful control of blood sugar during pregnancy is 
important, use of Abasaglar may be considered. The medicine would not be 
expected to affect breastfed infants. 
Use in children less 
Insulin glargine has not been studied in children less than 2 years old. 
than 2 years of age 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Abasaglar can be found on Abasaglar’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2015. 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
