SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for Abevmy® (bevacizumab)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Abevmy®. The RMP details important 
risks  of  bevacizumab,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about bevacizumab 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Abevmy®'s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Abevmy®  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Abevmy® 's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Abevmy® is  authorized for  Metastatic Colorectal  Cancer, Metastatic Breast  Cancer, Advanced, 
metastatic or recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer, Advanced and/or metastatic RCC, Epithelial 
Ovarian, Fallopian Tube and Primary Peritoneal Cancer, and Cervical Cancer (see SmPC for the 
full indications). It contains bevacizumab as the active substance, and it is given by intravenous 
route.  
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Abevmy®’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Abevmy®’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/abevmy.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Abevmy®, together with measures to minimise such risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important  risks  of  Abevmy®  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered  to 
patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Abevmy®. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is  currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.). 
Table 1 Part VI: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks  
Since there are no important identified or potential risks and no missing information identified in 
the  summary  of  the  safety  concerns,  no  summary  of  routine  risk  minimization  measures  is 
applicable.   
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies, which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Abevmy®. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable. 
 
