SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Abilify. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Schizophrenia is a major psychotic disorder. Its essential features consist of a mixture of characteristic 
signs and symptoms that have been present for a significant length of time during a 1-month period (or 
for  a  shorter  time  if  successfully  treated),  with  some  signs  of  the  disorder  persisting  for  at  least  6 
months. 
The  characteristic  symptoms  of  schizophrenia  have  often  been  conceptualized  as  falling  into  two 
broad  categories  positive  and  negative  (or  deficit)  symptoms  with  a  third  category,  disorganized, 
recently  added  because  statistical  analyses  have  revealed  that  it  is  a  dimension  independent  of  the 
positive  symptom  category,  where  it  was  previously  included.  The  positive  symptoms  include 
delusions and hallucinations. Disorganized symptoms include disorganized speech (thought disorder) 
and  disorganized  behaviour  and  poor  attention.  Negative  symptoms  include  restricted  range  and 
intensity  of  emotional  expression  (affective  flattening),  reduced  thought  and  speech  productivity 
(alogia), anhedonia, and decreased initiation of goal-directed behaviour (avolition). 
The onset of schizophrenia typically occurs during adolescence or early adulthood. It affects men and 
women  with  equal  frequency.  The  peak  age  at  onset  for  males,  however,  is  the  early  20s,  and  for 
women  it  is  the  late  20s  and  early  30s.  The  majority  of  patients  alternate  between  acute  psychotic 
episodes  and  stable  phases  with  full  or  partial  remission.  Inter-episode  residual  symptoms  are 
common. This often-chronic illness can be characterized by three phases that merge into one another 
without  absolute,  clear  boundaries  between  them.  These  phases,  which  form  the  structure  for 
integrating treatment approaches, are described below: 
Acute phase. During this florid psychotic phase, patients exhibit severe psychotic symptoms, such as 
delusions and/or hallucinations and severely disorganized thinking, and are usually unable to care for 
themselves appropriately. Negative symptoms often become more severe as well. 
Stabilization phase. During this phase, acute psychotic symptoms decrease in severity. This phase may 
last for 6 or more months after the onset of an acute episode. 
Stable phase. Symptoms are relatively stable and, if present at all, are almost always less severe than 
in the acute phase. Patients can be asymptomatic; others may manifest non-psychotic symptoms, such 
as  tension,  anxiety,  depression,  or  insomnia.  When  negative  (deficit)  symptoms  and/or  positive 
symptoms,  such  as  delusions,  hallucinations,  or  thought  disorder,  persist,  they  are  often  present  in 
attenuated,  non-psychotic  forms  (e.g.,  circumstantiality  rather  than  looseness,  illusions  rather  than 
hallucinations, overvalued ideas rather than delusions). 
There are a number of antipsychotics in use but none is ideal in particular because their safety profile 
is complex. The in vitro affinity profile of aripiprazole for dopamine and serotonin receptors is similar 
to the one of so-called atypical antipsychotics. It is postulated that aripiprazole's mechanism of action 
is  novel  as  it  involves  a  combination  of  partial  agonist  action  (agonist/antagonism)  at  dopamine  D2 
and serotonin 5-HT1A receptors and antagonism at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Abilify contains aripiprazole as the active ingredient. It is presented in the form of 5, 10, 15, and 30 
mg tablets. 
1/29                                                                         EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ingredients 
Other 
lactose  monohydrate,  starch  (maize),  microcrystalline  cellulose, 
hydroxypropyl cellulose, magnesium stearate (vegetable origin), purified water and colour (Iron oxide 
red). 
include 
Abilify tablets are packaged in aluminium perforated unit dose blisters in a carton. 
Active substance 
Manufacture 
Information  on  aripiprazole  has  been  supplied  in  the  form  of  an  active  substance  master  file 
(‘EDMF’). 
Aripiprazole  is  a  quinolinone  derivative  with  the  chemical  name  7-[4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1-
piperazinyl]butoxy]- 3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone. 
The active substance does not contain any chiral centres and does not exhibit any optical isomerism. 
Aripiprazole active substance is a white crystalline powder and is practically insoluble in water and its 
solubility  is  pH  dependent.  Therefore,  a  particle  size  effect  on  dissolution  of  the  tablets  can  be 
expected.  In  order  to  ensure  batch-to-batch  consistency  of  the  product,  and  to  ensure  adequate 
bioavailability, aripiprazole is subject to milling. 
Aripiprazole  can  exist  in  several  crystalline  forms,  Form  Iwas  chosen  for  the  development  and 
commercialisation.. 
Aripiprazole  is  synthesised  by  a  2-step  process.  In  the  first  step,  7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydro-2(H)-
quinolinone  is  transformed  into  an  intermediate,  which  is  reacted  with  1-(2,3-dichlorophenyl) 
piperazine  hydrochloride  to  obtain  aripiprazole.  The  process,  specifications  and  control  methods  are 
adequately described in the restricted section of the EDMF. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description, identity (IR, HPLC, and Power X ray 
diffraction), assay (HPLC), related impurities (HPLC), heavy metals, particle size, etc. 
The  analytical  methods  used  in  routine  controls  are  suitably  described.  Impurity  limits  in  the 
specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Batch data are provided for 54 production batches produced in the manufacturing site, the industrial 
process manufactured 17 of these batches. 
The tests and limits in the specification are appropriate for controlling the quality of Aripiprazole. 
Stability 
Stability  studies  under  long  term  ICH  conditions  (25°C/60%RH  and  40°C/75%)  up  to  12  months  in 
three production-scale batches and under stress conditions (60°C, 25°C/91%RH, 40°C/75%RH) up to 
6 months in 1 production batch up to 6 months have been performed. The stability batches were stored 
in  a  polyethylene  bag  /  aluminium  foil-polyethylene  laminated  bag  or  in  open  dishes.  Methods  are 
validated and stability indicating. The parameters tested are appearance, particle size, loss on drying, 
identification and drug related impurities / degradation products. These data provided are sufficient to 
confirm the proposed re-test period. 
Other ingredients 
All excipients used are described in the European Pharmacopoeia. Magnesium stearate is of vegetable 
origin. Colours meet the general requirements as described in EC Directive 95/45/EC. 
The only ingredient from animal origin is lactose monohydrate using milk and calf rennet of bovine 
origin  during  its  preparation.  The  manufacturer  has  provided  confirmation  that  the  milk  is  sourced 
from healthy animals in the same conditions as milk collected for human consumption and that the calf 
rennet complies with the public statement EMEA/CPMP/571/02. 
Aripiprazole  tablets  are  packaged  in  aluminium  perforated  unit  dose  blisters.  The  specifications  and 
testing standards for the primary packaging components used are presented and are acceptable 
2/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
Product development and finished product 
Abilify  5  mg,  10  mg,  15  mg  and  30  mg  strength  tablets  formulation  of  the  active  substance 
aripiprazole were selected as the proposed commercial strengths. However, extensive information on 2 
mg and 20 mg strength aripiprazole tablets have been provided as supportive information. 
The  product  development  has  taken  into  consideration  the  physicochemical  characteristics  of  the 
active drug substance such as poor aqueous solubility, hygroscopic properties, stability, particle size, 
polymorphism, and biopharmaceutical issues such as dissolution rate. 
The  formulation  contains  stable,  milled  crystalline  aripiprazole  because  of  the  limited  solubility  in 
water  and  the  hydrophobic  nature  of  the  active  substance.  Fluid  bed  wet  granulation  process  was 
developed  as  the  manufacturing  process  for  the  tablets.  The  excipients  included  in  the  formulation 
were chosen and adjusted in order to achieve a dosage form with an accurate therapeutic onset.  
The formulation shows a good bioavailability and the results of pharmacokinetic and in vitro studies 
support the bioequivalence between clinical and commercial tablets. 
The  finished  product  is  manufactured  in  9  steps:  weighing,  preparation  of  binding  solution, 
granulation  and  drying,  sizing,  dispersion  and  blending  of  colour,  lubrication,  compression,  control 
and packaging. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process in four industrial batches.  
Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification  (HPLC 
and IR), assay (HPLC), impurities / degradation products (HPLC), uniformity of contents, dissolution 
and microbial purity.  
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
A total of 28-batch analyses covering all strengths of Aripiprazole tablets are presented, and the results 
confirm satisfactory uniformity of the product at release. 
Stability of the Product 
Three batches of each strength of tablets manufactured at commercial scale, were placed on stability 
according to ICH Guideline, each batch was packaged in aluminium/aluminium blisters. 
Photostability studies (loose tablets using one lot of each strength over a period of 600 hours), open 
dishes studies at high humidity (loose tablets using one lot of each strength over periods of 12 months 
at  25ºC/60%RH  and  3  months  at  40ºC/75%RH)  and  cycling  stress  studies  (aripiprazole  tablets 
packaged in blisters stored for 10 hours at –15ºC and 10 hours at 30ºC, with a complete cycle every 24 
hours for 14 days) were carried out on aripiprazole tablets. 
Also, samples of all strengths packaged in aluminium blisters were evaluated at 50ºC. 
Results have been generated by validated, stability indicating methods and show satisfactory stability. 
These results support the shelf life and storage conditions stated in the SPC. 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence. 
Since  the  solubility  of  the  active  substance  is  pH  dependent  and  highly  permeable,  differences  in 
formulation  and/or  method  of  manufacture  may  affect  the  bioavailability  to  a  considerable  extent. 
Therefore,  three  effects  related  to  formulation  development  have  been  investigated:  (1)  equivalence 
between  anhydrous  and  hydrated  forms  of  the  active  substance,  (2)  dose  normalised  bioequivalence 
between  strengths,  and  (3)  equivalence  between  development  and  market  products.  In  addition  the 
relative  bioavailability  of  capsule  and  tablet  versus  ethanolic  solution  has  been  determined  and  a 
food/drug interaction study has been performed as well. In general, the studies comply with the current 
requirements  and  demonstrated  that  the  formulation  shows  reasonably  good  bioavailability  and  the 
results  of  pharmacokinetic  and  in  vitro  studies  support  the  bioequivalence  between  clinical  and 
commercial tablets and that no special recommendations with respect to food intake are necessary. 
3/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of Abilify is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and pharmaceutical 
documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
The  aripiprazole  tablets  intended  for  marketing  are  well  suited;  the  manufacturing  process  is  under 
control and ensures both batch to batch reproducibility and compliance with standard procedures and 
specifications; the analytical methods have been validated and seem to be suitable to ensure consistent 
quality  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product,  the  synthetic  pathway  is  presented  and  the 
structure  and  impurity  profile  are  well  characterised  and  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  The 
stability data on the active substance supports the proposed re-testing period. 
The stability data of the finished product in the proposed packages support the shelf life stated in the 
SPC. 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  there  were  some  unresolved  minor  quality  issues  which  had  no 
impact  on  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  in  a  letter  of  undertaking  to  provide  the 
necessary information as follow up measures within an agreed timeframe. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Aripiprazole is a new antipsychotic belonging to the class of atypical antipsychotic drugs. It has been 
proposed  that  aripiprazole  antipsychotic  action  could  be  mediated  through  a  combination  of  partial 
agonist  action  at  dopamine  D2  and  serotonin  5-HT1A  receptors  and  antagonism  at  serotonin  5-HT2A 
receptors 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
In vitro studies  
Aripiprazole  (OPC-14597,  OPC-31,  BMS-337039)  binds  with  high  affinity  to  dopamine  D2  and  D3, 
serotonin 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors, with moderate affinity to dopamine D4, serotonin 5-HT2C and 
5-HT7,  α1-adrenergic,  histamine  H1  receptors  and  the  serotonin  reuptake  site.  Aripiprazole  exhibits 
low affinity for muscarinic receptors. 
Aripiprazole  acts  as  a  D2  receptor  partial  agonist  in  vitro:  (1)  aripiprazole  potently  activates 
recombinant human D2 receptors which are coupled to the inhibition of cAMP accumulation achieving 
a maximal effect of approximately 80% of that produced by the endogenous agonist dopamine and (2) 
in cultured  rat anterior  pituitary cells, aripiprazole produces  a dose-dependent inhibition of  prolactin 
release  with  a  maximal  inhibitory  effect  of  70%  of  that  displayed  by  dopamine.  The  affinity  of 
aripiprazole  for  rat  5-HT2A  receptors  is  lower  than  that  of  risperidone  and  chlorpromazine  but  is 
comparable to that of haloperidol and clozapine. Additionally, aripiprazole inhibits 5-HT2A- mediated 
behaviours,  suggesting  5-HT2A-antagonist  activity.  Aripiprazole  demonstrates  agonist  activity  at 
(presynaptic)  dopamine  auto-receptors.  Thus,  aripiprazole:  (1)  inhibits  gamma-butyrolactone  and 
reserpine-induced  increases  in  3,  4-dihydroxyphenylalanine  (DOPA)  accumulation  consistent  with  a 
reduction in presynaptic tyrosine hydroxylase activity, and this effect was blocked by the D2 receptor 
antagonist haloperidol; (2) produces a hyperpolarization of ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons 
accompanied  by  a  concomitant  decrease  in  firing  produced  by  activation  of  D2  auto-receptors,  an 
effect which was antagonized by the D2 receptor antagonist domperidone. 
In vivo studies  
Aripiprazole has cataleptogenic effects in rodents. In mice, the ratio of doses that are cataleptogenic to 
those  that  inhibit  apomorphine-induced  stereotyped  behaviour  was  about  11  times  that  of 
chlorpromazine  and  5  times  that  of  haloperidol.  In  rats,  the  dose  ratio  of  aripiprazole  was  about  14 
times that of chlorpromazine and 8 times that of haloperidol. Aripiprazole was 4.8- and 7.1-fold less 
potent than olanzapine and risperidone, respectively in inducing catalepsy. 
4/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In  electrophysiologic  studies,  the  effects  of  aripiprazole  on  neuronal  activity  in  nucleus  accumbens 
(Acc)  neurons,  activated  monosynaptically  by  stimulation  of  the  parafascicular  nucleus  of  the 
thalamus  (Pf),  were  examined.  Although  aripiprazole  alone  was  without  effect,  dopamine-, 
SKF 38393-  and  quinpirole-induced  inhibition  of  spike  generation  in  Acc  neurons  tended  to  be 
antagonized during simultaneous application of aripiprazole. Aripiprazole, as well as domperidone, a 
selective  D2  receptor  antagonist,  show  significant  inhibition  of  striatal  neuronal  firing  elicited  by 
stimulation  of  dopaminergic  inputs  from  the  substantia  nigra.  Aripiprazole  also  blocks  quinpirole-
induced  firing  in  striatal  neurons,  but  does  not  alter  glutamate-induced  firing,  suggesting  that 
aripiprazole  blocks  dopamine  D2  receptors  on  striatal  cells  receiving  dopaminergic  input  from  the 
substantia  nigra.  Aripiprazole  produces  a  reduction  in  the  firing  rate  of  serotonin  containing  dorsal 
raphe neurons in rats, which is reversed by administration of the selective 5-HT1A antagonists WAY-
100635.  Additionally,  in  acutely  dissociated  hippocampal  pyramidal  neurons  of  the  rat,  aripiprazole 
(at  10-5M)  significantly  reduce  the  γ-aminobutyric  acid  (GABA)-induced  inward  current  but  is  less 
potent  than  the  neuroleptic,  zotepine.  Aripiprazole  does  not  influence  the  N-methyl-D-aspartic  acid 
(NMDA)-induced current. 
In  behaviorial  studies,  aripiprazole  showed  a  significant  inhibition  of  the  conditioned  avoidance 
response  comparable 
to  conventional  antipsychotics  (e.g.  haloperidol,  chlorpromazine)  and 
demonstrated anti-conflict behaviour in rats like the atypical antipsychotic clozapine. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics and Safety pharmacology 
Central and peripheral nervous systems 
Aripiprazole  was  less  potent  than  chlorpromazine  and  haloperidol  in  producing  behavioral  signs 
consistent with CNS depression, in inducing catalepsy, and in suppressing spontaneous motor activity 
and, unlike these comparators, did not cause convulsions. Additionally, it reduced motor coordination 
and  prolonged  the  duration  of  hexobarbital-induced  hypnosis  with  a  potency  comparable  to 
chlorpromazine.    In  contrast,  aripiprazole  demonstrated  less  potential  than  chlorpromazine  or 
haloperidol to induce muscular relaxation and analgesia. 
Cardiorespiratory system 
Aripiprazole  and  OPC-14857  inhibited  the  HERG/Ikr  current  only  at  very  high  multiples  of  the 
maximum steady-state plasma free-drug concentration and there were no effects on APD in the rabbit 
Purkinje  fiber  assay.  OPC-3373  demonstrated  no  in  vitro  inhibition  of  HERG/Ikr  current  or 
prolongation  of  APD  at  concentrations  up  to  10  µM.  Neither  aripiprazole  nor  the  main  human 
metabolites (OPC-14857,  OPC-3373)  accumulate in rat cardiac tissue following single  or repeat  (13 
days)  dosing.  Potential  cardiovascular  effects  were  also  assessed  in  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  safety 
pharmacology studies (anesthetized dogs) and in toxicology studies (39 week treatment in monkeys) 
where  no  significant  changes  were  observed.  Furthermore,  there  is  no  evidence  of  drug-related  QTc 
(Bazett's  correction)  interval  prolongation  or  other  clinically  significant  ECG  abnormalities  in  over 
2100 patients treated with aripiprazole. 
Other systems and tissues 
In vitro and in vivo safety pharmacology studies were conducted to assess the potential of aripiprazole 
to alter gastric secretion, gastrointestinal motility, smooth muscle contractility, and urine volume and 
electrolyte  excretion.    These  studies  indicated  that  aripiprazole  has  little  potential  to  cause 
gastrointestinal or renal side effects or affect smooth muscle contractility. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Co-administration  of  D2  receptor  antagonists  such  as  chlorpromazine  with  aripiprazole  reduce  the 
presynaptic dopamine (DA) autoreceptor agonist efficacy of aripiprazole. In contrast, lorazepam alone 
significantly  reduces  DOPA  accumulation  following  reserpine  injection  and  significantly  enhances 
aripiprazole's action as a presynaptic DA autoreceptor agonist. Fluoxetine did not alter aripiprazole's 
actions  on  presynaptic  DA  autoreceptors.  Co-administration  of  aripiprazole  with  other  agents  that 
produce  postsynaptic  D2  receptor  blockade  (haloperidol,  chlorpromazine,  risperidone)  act  in  an 
additive  manner  to  block  DA-mediated  behaviour  and  induce  catalepsy.  Concomitant  administration 
of aripiprazole with haloperidol or risperidone produced a greater increase in plasma prolactin levels 
in  rats  than  did  aripiprazole  alone.  However,  combined  administration  of  aripiprazole  with 
chlorpromazine  did  not  produce  such  an  increase.  Concomitant  administration  of  aripiprazole  with 
lorazepam  decreased  plasma  prolactin  levels.  However,  lorazepam  alone  significantly  reduced 
5/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
prolactin levels. In contrast, co-administration of aripiprazole with benztropine or fluoxetine had little 
effect on plasma prolactin levels. Similar to the effects on DA-mediated behaviour, co-administration 
of aripiprazole with D2 receptor antagonists enhanced blockade of pituitary D2 receptors culminating 
in increased prolactin levels. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  number  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  were  carried  out  to  investigate  the  metabolism  and 
pharmacokinetics  of  aripiprazole  employing  species  routinely  used  for  toxicologic  assessment  (i.e., 
mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog,  and  monkey)  after  single  or  multiple  dose  by  oral  and  parenteral 
administration. 
Sensitive  and  specific  high  performance  liquid  chromatography  (HPLC/UV),  gas  chromatography 
coupled  with  mass  spectrometry  (GC/MS),  and/or  liquid  chromatography  with  tandem  mass 
spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) methods were developed and validated for determination of concentrations 
of aripiprazole and/or its metabolites in plasma, bile, urine, and/or brain of  mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, 
and monkeys 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability-Distribution 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  aripiprazole  were  dose  linear  and  qualitatively  similar  in  mice,  dogs, 
monkeys,  and  humans;  however,  dose-dependent  bioavailability  was  seen  in  rats  likely  due  to 
saturation  of  the  presystemic  metabolism  and/or  elimination.  The  absolute  oral  bioavailability  of 
aripiprazole was 47% in mice, 16% at 10 mg/kg in rats, 6-12 % in dogs, 8% in monkeys, and 87% in 
humans.  In  bile  duct-cannulated  rats,  aripiprazole  was  well  and  rapidly  absorbed  from  the 
gastrointestinal tract and about 80% of drug-related material was recovered in the bile, suggesting that 
the low oral bioavailability in rats was due to extensive presystemic metabolism.  
The steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) of aripiprazole in animals and humans was substantially 
greater than the volume of total body water, suggesting extensive extravascular distribution of the drug 
and/or  preferential binding to tissue proteins. Aripiprazole  readily crosses the blood-brain barrier, as 
there  is  rapid  uptake  and  extensive  distribution  of  aripiprazole  in  the  rat  brain  following  its  oral 
administration.  
Placenta and milk transfer 
14
Following  [
C]-aripiprazole  administration  to  pregnant  rats,  drug-related  radioactivity  was  widely 
distributed  in  maternal  tissues.  Distribution  of  radioactivity  to  the  fetus  was  low  and  only  a  trace 
amount of radioactivity was detected in the amniotic fluid even though concentrations of radioactivity 
in  the  placenta  were  1.3-4.5  times  higher  than  that  in  maternal  plasma.  Highest  fetal  tissues 
concentrations were observed in the fetal liver; lower concentrations were noted in fetal kidney, heart, 
blood,  lung,  and  brain.  Drug-derived  radioactivity  was  secreted  in  the  milk  within  0.5  h  after  oral 
administration  of  [
C]-aripiprazole  to  lactating  rats.  In  addition,  the  milk  vs.  blood  concentration 
ratios was greater than one for up to 24 h postdose. These results in rats suggest there is a potential for 
fetal  and  neonatal  exposure  to  aripiprazole  if  administered  to  pregnant  or  lactating  women.  This 
information is included in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
•  Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo)- Excretion 
14
After an intravenous single dose, the terminal phase elimination half-life of aripiprazole in plasma was 
about 3 h in mice, 1 h in rats, 2-5 h in dogs, and 4 h in monkeys.  In comparison, the terminal phase 
elimination  half-life  after  intravenous  administration  in  humans  averaged  99  h  (range  44  to  168 h).  
The systemic clearance (CLT) in  mice, rats, dogs,  monkeys, and humans was 19-24, 83-110, 21-29, 
14,  and  0.72 mL/min/kg,  respectively.  In  humans,  the  long  terminal  phase  elimination  half-life  and 
low CLT suggest much slower rate of elimination of aripiprazole as compared to animals. 
In  rats,  monkeys,  and  humans,  aripiprazole  was  primarily  metabolized  by  three  biotransformation 
pathways  which  were  qualitatively  similar  across  species:  dehydrogenation  to  form  OPC-14857,  the 
major circulating metabolite in human, hydroxylation to form DM-1451, and N-dealkylation; to form 
OPC-3373  and  N-2,3-dichlorophenylpiperazine  (DCPP).  Aripiprazole  is  primarily  metabolized  by 
CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6  isozymes.  Aripiprazole  was  mainly  eliminated  via  metabolic  clearance  and 
6/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
metabolites of aripiprazole were eliminated by both renal and biliary routes in monkeys and humans 
and predominantly by biliary route in rats. 
Aripiprazole was extensively serum protein bound and the binding site was determined to be albumin 
site II specific. The ex vivo protein binding of aripiprazole was 99.75% and was similar to the protein 
binding determined by equilibrium dialysis in vitro, indicating that the presence of metabolites in the 
plasma did not affect the protein binding of aripiprazole. Therefore, significant drug interactions due 
to the protein binding displacement are unlikely. 
Drug interactions 
In rats, the potential of aripiprazole to induce hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes was investigated and 
did not show induction of CYP enzymes. 
The  potential  for  inhibitory  activity  (IC50)  of  aripiprazole  and  its  active  metabolite,  OPC-14857,  on 
CYP1A2,  -2C9,  -2C19,  -2D6,  and  -3A4  was  investigated  in  several  in vitro  systems  using  human 
cytochrome P450 enzymes. These in vitro data suggest that aripiprazole and its metabolite OPC-14857 
did not significantly inhibit the above enzymes at clinically relevant concentrations. 
Clinical drug-drug interactions are further discussed in the clinical part. 
Toxicology 
The safety of aripiprazole has been evaluated in single- and repeat-dose oral toxicity studies in rats and 
monkeys, a battery of in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicity studies, carcinogenicity studies in mice and 
rats,  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  local  tolerance  studies  in 
rabbits,  antigenicity  studies  in  guinea  pigs,  studies  of  serum  hormone  levels  in  mice  and  rats,  and 
physical dependence and abuse potential studies in rats and monkeys. Dose range-finding studies were 
conducted in the appropriate species to assist in dose selection for definitive repeat-dose toxicity, oral 
micronucleus,  reproductive  toxicity,  and  carcinogenicity  studies.  Additionally,  the  toxicity  of  two 
metabolites of aripiprazole in animals and humans (OPC-14857, OPC-3373) was evaluated in single-
dose  studies  in  rats,  and  the  metabolite  DCPP  was  evaluated  in  a  bacterial  gene-mutation  test. 
Aripiprazole was administered as a suspension in 5% gum arabic solution in all oral toxicity studies. 
All definitive nonclinical toxicology studies and the majority of dose range-finding and investigative 
studies were conducted in compliance with Good Laboratory Practice regulations. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
In rats, the median lethal dose after oral administration of aripiprazole was approximately in the range 
of  950-700  mg/kg.  Drug-related  clinical  findings  preceding  death  included  principally:  decreased 
intravenous 
spontaneous  motor  activity,  convulsions,  ataxia, 
administration,  no  death  and  no  clinical  findings  were  noted  up  to  the  highest  feasible  dose  of  2 
mg/kg. 
tremors,  and  catalepsy.  After 
In  monkeys,  the  median  lethal  dose  after  oral  administration  of  aripiprazole  was  greater  than  2000 
mg/kg. Severe drug-related clinical effects were noted primarily during week 1 and included: impaired 
motor activity, hyporeactivity to external stimuli, catalepsy, tremors and prone and/or lateral position. 
All clinical signs were considered pharmacologically mediated and resolved on or before day 11 with 
the exception of tremors and impaired motor activity in one high-dose female that persisted through 
the  end  of  the  study.  No  gross  pathologic  changes  were  observed  in  the  2000 mg/kg  animals 
necropsied.  After intravenous administration, there were no aripiprazole-related findings at any dose 
up to the highest feasible dose of 1 mg/kg. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The main oral studies in rats and monkeys are listed chronologically in the following tables: 
Main Repeat-dose oral studies in rats with TK 
Duration 
(weeks) 
13* 
52 
4* 
26* 
Dose levels 
mg/kg/day 
0, 2, 6, 20 
0, 1, 3, 10 
0, 60, 100 
0, 10, 30, 60 
NOAEL 
mg/kg/day  
6 (M), 2 (F) 
3 (M), 1 (F) 
Not determined 
Not determined 
AUC 0-24h(ng.h/ml) ratio to humans** 
High Dose (M/F) 
0.2/0.5 
<0.1 
9.5/12.6 
14/9.5 
NOAEL (M/F) 
nd 
<0.1 
N/A 
N/A 
7/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
*recovery period; nd: no data. ** Human AUC 0-24h= 7591 ng.h/ml at 30 mg/day 
Main Repeat-dose oral studies in monkeys with TK 
Duration 
(weeks) 
13* 
52 
39 
Dose levels 
mg/kg/day 
0, 0.5, 1, 5, 25 
0, 0.5, 5, 25 
0, 25, 50, 75/100 
NOAEL 
mg/kg/day 
1 
0.5 
Not determined 
AUC 0-24h(ng.h/ml) ratio to humans** 
High Dose (M/F) 
0.5/0.6 
1.4/0.8 
2.7/3.1 
NOAEL (M/F) 
nd 
<0.1 
N/A 
* recovery period; nd: no data. ** Human AUC 0-24h= 7591 ng.h/ml at 30 mg/day 
Aripiprazole  did  not  cause  any  life-threatening  toxicity  when  administered  to  rats  at  doses  up  to  60 
mg/kg/day for 6 months or to monkeys at doses up to 75 mg/kg/day for 9 months. Dose-limiting CNS-
related  clinical  signs  and  the  majority  of  morphologic  tissue  changes  were  considered  to  be  a 
consequence of exaggerated pharmacology or drug-related perturbations of serum prolactin levels.  
In  rats,  the  main  changes  included  dose-related  pulmonary  histiocytosis,  adrenocortical  hypertrophy 
and  increased  adrenal  and  ovarian  lipofuscin  pigments,  and  associated  adrenocortical  cell  loss  after 
chronic treatment at high doses. 
In monkeys, gallsand and gallstones and minimal focal hepatolithiasis were observed at high doses as 
a  consequence  of  concentration  and  precipitation  of  sulfate  conjugates  of  hydroxy  metabolites  of 
aripiprazole  in  the  terminal  biliary  tree  and  gallbladder.  No  other  target  organs  of  toxicity  were 
identified in the monkey. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
Aripiprazole  demonstrated  genotoxic  potential  in  several  tests:  (1)  in  the  bacterial  reverse-mutation 
test  where  a  slight  concentration-dependent  increase  of  reverse  mutations  in  TA100  strain  in  the 
presence of S9 metabolic activation was noted, (2) in the in vitro chromosomal aberration test (CHL) 
at  30  µg/ml  and  above,  corresponding  to  highly  cytotoxic  concentration  and  suggesting  an  indirect 
clastogenic  effect,  and  (3)  in  the  oral  in  vivo  micronucleus  tests  in  mice  at  100  mg/kg  and  above, 
possibly  related  to  a  profound  drug-induced  hypothermia.  Aripiprazole  demonstrated  no  genotoxic 
potential in the bacterial DNA repair assay, forward gene mutation test in mouse lymphoma cells, and 
in  vivo-in  vitro  unscheduled  DNA  repair  assay  in  rat  hepatocytes.  Based  on  the  weight  of  evidence 
from  the  battery  of  genotoxicity  studies,  aripiprazole  is  not  considered  to  pose  a  genotoxic  risk  to 
humans at therapeutic doses and exposures. 
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The  carcinogenic  potential  of  aripiprazole  was  evaluated  in  two  104-week  dietary  carcinogenicity 
studies  in  mice,  one  104-week  dietary  carcinogenicity  study  in  F344  rats,  and  one  104-week  oral 
carcinogenicity study in SD rats. 
Design and TK of carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats 
Route of 
admin. 
Strain 
Diet 
ICR mice 
Diet 
ICR mice 
Diet 
F344 rats 
Oral 
SD rats 
Dose levels 
mg/kg/day 
1 
3 
10 
30 
1 
3 
10 
10 
20 
40 
60 
* Human AUC 0-24h= 7591 ng.h/ml at 30 mg/day 
AUC 0-24h(ng.h/ml) ratio to humans* 
Male 
0.1 
0.1 
0.5 
1.4 
- 
<0.1 
<0.1 
0.3 
2.7 
7.3 
11.8 
Female 
<0.1 
0.1 
0.3 
0.9 
- 
<0.1 
0.1 
1.2 
3.4 
10.1 
13.5 
In mice, dietary administration of aripiprazole at doses of 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/day for 104 weeks was 
associated  with 
adenocarcinomas 
/adenoacanthomas  and  pituitary  adenomas  in  females  at  the  mid-  and  high  doses.  Increases  in 
incidences  of  mammary 
tumors,  namely 
increased 
8/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
mammary  and  pituitary  neoplasms  as  well  as  other  drug-related  mammary/reproductive  tissue 
alterations in females were considered, by the applicant, likely to be secondary to aripiprazole-related 
increases in serum prolactin.  
In a supplementary study, dietary administration of aripiprazole at a dose of 30 mg/kg/day to mice for 
100  to  104  weeks  was  associated  with  increased  incidences  of  mammary  adenocarcinomas/ 
adenoacanthomas and pituitary adenomas in females. Increases in mammary and pituitary neoplasms 
as well as other drug-related  mammary/reproductive tissue alterations in females were considered to 
be secondary to aripiprazole-related increases in serum prolactin.  
In the rat, dietary administration of aripiprazole at  doses  of 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/day to F344 rats  for 
104  weeks  was  associated  with  an  increased  incidence  of  mammary  gland  fibroadenoma  (a  benign 
tumor)  in  females  at  the  high  dose  only.  The  mammary  fibroadenomas  and  uterine  atrophy  were 
considered  to  be  secondary  to  aripiprazole-related  increases  in  serum  prolactin.  There  was  no  drug-
related increased incidence of tumors in male rats. 
In order to reach a maximum tolerated dose, another oral carcinogenicity study was conducted using 
gavage administration to Sprague Dawley rats at doses of 10, 20, 40, or 60 mg/kg/day for 104 weeks. 
SD Rat oral carcinogenicity. Main neoplastic findings 
Dose (mg/kg/day) 
Gender 
Total evaluated 
Nb of animals with neoplastic findings 
Adrenal cortex 
Adenoma 
Carcinoma 
Tumors combined 
0 
M 
109 
5 
2 
7 
10 
M 
55 
2 
0 
2 
F 
110 
5 
0 
5 
20 
40 
F  M  F  M  F  M  F 
55  55  55  55  55  55  55 
60 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
3 
0 
3 
3 
0 
3 
4 
2 
4 
2 
2 
4 
6 
6 
12 
There  was  an  increased  incidence  of  adrenocortical  tumors  (adenomas  and  carcinomas)  at  60 
mg/kg/day  in  females  only.  Drug-related  non-neoplastic  findings  at  40  and  60 mg/kg/day  included 
increased incidences and/or severities of bilateral retinal degeneration attributed to the greater lifetime 
exposure to light due to a higher survival rate in these groups. 
The highest doses tested in carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats resulted in exposures (AUC0-24 h) 
that  were  equivalent  (mice)  and  up  to  approximately  14  times  greater  than  (rats)  exposure  at  the 
maximum  recommended  dose  in  humans  (30 mg).  The  maximum  non-carcinogenic  dietary  doses  of 
1 mg/kg/day (mice) and 3 mg/kg/day (rats) resulted in subtherapeutic exposures (x25 and x300 lower), 
whereas 12- and 10-fold multiples of exposure was achieved at the maximum non-carcinogenic dose 
(60 and 40 mg/kg) in male and female rats, respectively, in the oral carcinogenicity study. 
The applicant conducted a 70-week investigative study in rats in order to address the pathogenesis of 
the adrenocortical changes and female specific tumorigenic findings. 
The main proposed mechanism is related to cytotoxicity due to increased oxidative stress induced by 
aripiprazole, rather than increased adrenocortical hormone production, as this has been considered as 
minor  in  the  treatment  period..  Although  not  fully  proven,  it  is  considered  that  the  approach  to 
understand  the  risk  posed  into  humans  by  these  tumorigenic  properties  of  aripiprazole  has  been 
appropriately  addressed.  However,  as  the  relevance  for  humans  posed  by  this  effect  remains 
incompletely  clarified,  a  specific  post-marketing  follow-up  measures  have  been  requested  by  the 
CPMP. This is reflected in the SPC section 5.3. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
The full standard battery of reproduction toxicity studies was conducted in rats and rabbits with 
aripiprazole. 
The following findings point to hazard caused by aripiprazole administration during reproduction: (i) 
oral administration of aripiprazole to pregnant rats at doses of 20 and 30 mg/kg/day from days 7 to 17 
of  gestation  produced  evidence  of  maternal  toxicity  and  suppressed  fetal  growth  (decreased  body 
weight  and  retarded  ossification);  (ii)  in  the  study  of  embryo-fetal  development  in  rats,  fetal 
abnormalities  (with  low  incidence)  were  observed  at  the  dose  of  30  mg/kg  in  almost  all  types  of 
9/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
abnormalies  evaluated.  In  some  cases,  abnormalities  were  also  observed  at  3mg/kg.  Noteworthy,  it 
was observed a dose-dependent decrease in fetal ossification, which became statistically significant at 
30 mg/kg. Dose-related maternal toxicity and a slight delay in vaginal opening in F1 females occurred 
at 10 and 30 mg/kg/day. A maternal dose of 30 mg/kg/day resulted in slight prolongation of gestation, 
developmental  delay  of  F1  fetuses  and  pups,  and  minimally  decreased  reproductive  performance 
(fertility index)  of F1  rats. (iii) In a supplemental  embryo-fetal  development  study in rats,  decreased 
body weight on day 4 postpartum and a tendency for delayed vaginal opening and an increase in pre-
implantation  loss  occurred  at  30  mg/kg/day  in  F1  females.  (iv)  In  the  study  of  embryo-fetal 
development in rabbits, fetal body weights were decreased in males at 30 mg/kg/day and in both sexes 
at  100  mg/kg/day.  Other  drug-related  changes  at  100  mg/kg/day  included:  abortion  in  seven  dams, 
minimal  maternal  body  weight  loss  during  the  treatment  period,  increased  post-implantation  loss, 
decreased  placental  weight,  and  increased  incidences  of  common  skeletal  variations  (20 thoraco-
lumbar vertebrae and extra 13th rib and fused sternebrae. 
NOELs for embryo-fetal and peri/postnatal development occurred at subtherapeutic or low multiples 
of  the  human  steady-state  exposures  to  aripiprazole  and  its  active  metabolite,  OPC-14857.  This  is 
reflected in the SPC section 5.3. 
• 
Local tolerance 
Aripiprazole was non-irritating to rabbit skin and was considered non-irritating to the rabbit eye using 
the Draize numerical evaluation method. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity:  Aripiprazole  was  evaluated  for  its  antigenic  potential  in  groups  of  10 male  Hartley 
guinea  pigs  sensitized  with  doses  of  0.5  or  5  mg/kg  of  aripiprazole  in  Freund’s  complete  adjuvant 
(FCA). No antigenic potential in guinea pigs was found. 
Dependence:  The  physical  dependence  and  abuse  potential  of  aripiprazole  were  evaluated  in  three 
pivotal studies: a primary physical dependence study in rats, a primary physical dependence study in 
monkeys,  and  a  self-administration  substitution  test  in  monkeys.  The  obtained  results  suggest  that 
aripiprazole does not have significant abuse liability. 
Metabolites:  A  single-dose  intravenous  toxicity  study  of  OPC-14857  in  rats  showed  at  50  and  100 
mg/kg,  clinical  signs  of  poor  general  condition  partially  reversible  on  day  2,  with  evidence  of 
intravascular haemolysis. In the single-dose intravenous toxicity study of OPC-3373 in rats, there were 
no drug-related effects. A bacterial reverse-mutation test of DCPP was negative. 
Photo-safety: As aripiprazole binds to melanin-containing tissues (tissue distribution studies), in vitro 
(photostability,  3T3  NRU  PT)  and  in  silico  studies  were  performed  and  did  not  indicate  a  risk  to 
patients. 
Environmental risk assessment:  
The assessment is based on the physical/chemical properties of aripiprazole, particularly the relatively 
low partition coefficient that suggests that it is not likely to accumulate in the environment, and on the 
human  metabolic  data,  which  indicates  that  much  of  the  drug  is  metabolised  to  relatively  inactive 
metabolites.  The  risk  of  an  adverse  environmental  impact  from  use  of  aripiprazole  in  Europe  is  not 
considered to be of concern. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Aripiprazole is a new antipsychotic belonging to the class of atypical antipsychotic drugs. It has been 
proposed  that  aripiprazole  antipsychotic  action  could  be  mediated  through  a  combination  of  partial 
agonist at dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT1A receptors and antagonism at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. 
The non-clinical characterization of aripiprazole as a dopamine D2 receptor partial agonist at pituitary 
lactotrophs predicts a low potential to induce hyperprolactinemia in humans but it may be dose related. 
Studies  on  the  sedative  liability  of  aripiprazole  suggest  a  reduced  sedative  potential  compared  to 
typical antipsychotics. The safety pharmacology profile of aripiprazole reveals that this agent exhibits 
a reduced impact on cardiovascular, renal and gastrointestinal systems. 
The absolute oral bioavailability of aripiprazole was 47% in mice, 16% at 10 mg/kg in rats, 6-12 % in 
dogs, 8% in monkeys, and 87% in humans. 
10/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
Studies  in  rats  suggest  that  there  is  a  potential  for  foetal  and  neonatal  exposure  to  aripiprazole  if 
administered to pregnant or lactating women. This information is included in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Aripiprazole  is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 isozymes. Aripiprazole was mainly 
eliminated via metabolic clearance and metabolites of aripiprazole were eliminated by both renal and 
biliary routes in monkeys and humans and predominantly by biliary route in rats. 
The  gallbladder  stone  formation  observed  in  monkeys  appears  to  be  species  specific.  The  risk  of 
gallstone  formation  in  patients  is  probably  very  low  since  sulfate  conjugated  metabolites  of 
aripiprazole do not reach sufficient biliary concentrations in humans and since no indication of such a 
risks occurred during the clinical trials. This is described in the SPC (section 5.3). 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  in  rat  and  monkeys  revealed  mainly  CNS-related  effects.  The  NOAEL  were 
mostly below the resulting human exposure at therapeutic dose (30 mg/day). 
The  genotoxicity  battery  was  positive  in  some  tests,  but  at  very  high  and  cytotoxic  concentrations. 
Overall, based on the weight of evidence from the whole battery of genotoxicity studies, aripiprazole 
is not considered to pose a genotoxic risk to humans at therapeutic doses and exposures. 
The  main finding in carcinogenicity was an increased incidence  of adrenocortical tumors in rats. As 
the clinical relevance of this finding for human is questionable, the applicant as a follow-up measure 
will perform post-marketing studies with measurements of ACTH and cortisol. 
Developmental toxicity, including dose-dependent delayed foetal ossification and possible teratogenic 
effects, were  observed in rats at doses resulting in subtherapeutic  exposures (based  on AUC) and in 
rabbits at higher exposure. This is mentioned in the SPC section 5.3. 
Specific  dependence  studies  performed  in  rats  and  monkeys  suggest  that  aripiprazole  does  not  have 
significant abuse liability. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The proposed indication of aripiprazole is the treatment of schizophrenia. 
A  total  of  34  clinical  pharmacology  studies  included  results  from  healthy  subjects  (24 studies), 
patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (6 studies), and one study each in patients with 
hepatic  impairment,  renal  impairment,  elderly  patients  with  dementia,  and  children/adolescents  with 
conduct disorder. In addition, 17 Phase I, II and III clinical studies were conducted in Japan. As they 
are  significantly  different  (design,  strength  etc.)  from  the  other  studies  of  the  aripiprazole  clinical 
program, their results have been used where appropriate and kept separate from the safety database. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Observations on  the  primary pharmacodynamics of  aripiprazole suggest  that its efficacy  is mediated 
through  a  combination  of  partial  agonist  activity  at  dopamine  D2  receptors  and  serotonin  5-HT1A 
receptors and antagonism at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors 
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology development consisted in a single pharmacodynamic study (Study 31-94-
201) and a pharmacodynamic interaction study between aripiprazole and alcohol (Study 31-00-230). 
Further to these, the pharmacokinetic studies produced data on safety and tolerability.  
PET  scanning  conducted  study  31-94-201  to  determine  the  degree  of  brain  D2  receptor  occupancy 
induced by aripiprazole. A dose-dependent increase in dopamine D2 receptor occupancy was observed 
at  doses  ranging  from  0.5mg/day  to  10  mg/day.  Receptor  occupancy  approached  saturation  at  10 
mg/day  with  approximately  85%  receptor  occupancy;  at  30  mg/day,  the  next  dose  level  evaluated, 
11/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
receptor  occupancy  was  approximately  80%-95%.  Receptor  occupancy  at  the  0.5-mg/day-dose  level 
was approximately 23% - 46%. No data on the binding to other relevant receptors, namely 5-HT2, is 
provided. 
Study  31-00-230  was  conducted  to  assess  the  potential  for  pharmacodynamic  interactions  between 
orally co-administered aripiprazole and ethanol. There were no differences in the gross motor skills or 
cognitive abilities when ethanol was added to aripiprazole and placebo. However due to variations in 
placebo affect it was not possible to determine if co-administration of aripiprazole with ethanol had a 
meaningful impact on cognitive function. Therefore, as mentioned in the SPC, concomitant intake of 
alcohol with aripiprazole is not recommended. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Bioavailability/Bioequivalence 
All studies complied with current standards of laboratory, clinical and biostatistical practices. 
The absolute oral and IM bioavailability of aripiprazole have been established to be 0.870 and 1.01, 
respectively.  This  indicates  that  aripiprazole  is  nearly  completely  absorbed  and  undergoes  minimal 
pre-systemic metabolism, with peak concentrations occurring 3-5 h after dosing. 
The applicant showed bioequivalence between the 15 mg and 3x5 mg tablets (CN138-035). 
Bioequivalence between the reference commercial tablet (anhydrous aripiprazole) and two prototypes 
containing 20-30% and 100 % respectively of the monohydrate form was established. A further study 
established also the bioequivalence of the 30 mg and 3x10 mg tablets. 
The  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  complied  with  usual  bioequivalence  criteria  for  fed  (high  fat 
breakfast)  and  fasted  states.  Therefore,  no  recommendation  with  respect  to  food  intake  as  related  to 
drug administration has been considered necessary. 
• 
Distribution  
Aripiprazole  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  (99%).  However  its  steady-state  volume  of 
distribution  following  i.v.  Administration  is  404L  or  4.94L/kg,  indicating  a  higher  affinity  to  tissue 
proteins.  Dose  dependent  D2  receptor  occupancy  confirms  that  aripiprazole  crosses  the  blood-brain 
barrier, as already established from rat studies. 
No  preferential  distribution  of  aripiprazole  to  blood  cells  was  established  based  on  total  blood  to 
plasma  activity  ratio  (approximately  one)  obtained  after  a  14C  labelled  20  mg  single  dose  of 
aripiprazole. 
•  Metabolism and Elimination 
Aripiprazole is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 isozymes. OPC-14857 produced by 
dehydrogenation of the quinolinone ring is the major active metabolite in plasma. 
OPC-3373,  product  of  N-dealkylation,  is  a  main  urine  metabolite  and  DM-1451,  product  of  a 
monohydroxylation  of  the  aromatic  ring,  is  mainly  eliminated  in  the  faeces.  Some  of  these  primary 
metabolites undergo subsequent biotransformation: N-dealkylation, hydroxylation and glucuronide or 
sulfate conjugation. 
The mean terminal half-life of aripiprazole is 75 h after 5 -15 mg oral dose and 99 h following a 2 mg 
i.v.  dose,  the  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  is  4.94  L/kg  and  the  total  body  clearance  is  0.72 
mL/min/kg and primarily hepatic. 
Daily  administration  of  5,  10,  15  and  20  mg  of  aripiprazole  achieved  steady-state  concentrations 
within 14 days of dosing. An accumulation index (ca) of 2.8 and a fluctuation index of 43 to 55% were 
observed. 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Aripiprazole exhibits linear pharmacokinetics within the 5-30 mg dose range. 
There are no clinically significant differences between morning and evening administration. 
The inter-subject variability of Cmax and AUC of aripiprazole ranges from 16 to 60% and the intra-
subject variability from 7 to 18% expressed as relative standard deviation. 
12/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
• 
Special populations 
Gender and age differences (independently of disease) do not provide evidence for the need to dose 
adjustment. Results of a population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics study using NONMEM 
support the general conclusion from the individual interaction and special population  studies that no 
dose adjustments are needed based on demographic variables 
A  study  of  subjects  with  severe  renal  impairment  did  not  show  any  effects  on  aripiprazole  PK 
values. A  study on the  effect of severe hepatic impairment did  not reveal significant PK  changes, 
but the number of subjects with severe liver disease was to small to draw definitive conclusions. 
In summary, the main pharmacokinetic characteristics are shown in the table below: 
Bioavailability 
T1/2 – Tmax-ss 
Cmax - AUC 
Linearity 
Effect of food 
Distribution  
Metabolism 
Elimination 
Oral: 87% - IM : 101% 
75h to 146h (extensive and poor CYP2D6 metabolisers) - Tmax 3-5h  
AUC 0-∞ ≈ 3500 µgh/L – Cmax ≈ 55 µg/L for 15 mg single dose 
Linear PK between 5-30mg for 7 days 
Accumulation index:2.8 at steady state (14 days) 
No interaction 
Vss=4.94L/kg; protein binding >99% 
CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 (substrate) 
Main metabolites:OPC-14857 (active), OPC-3373, DM-1452 & DCPP 
Total radioactivity: 27% in urine and 60% in faeces  
Unchanged aripiprazole <1% in urine and ≈ 18% in faeces 
Total body clearance 0.7 ml/min/kg, primarily hepatic 
Special populations  No evidence of effects in renal and hepatic impaired patients 
Gender/age effect 
No significant effects 
• 
Interaction studies 
Due to the aripiprazole complex metabolic pattern, involving CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 isozymes several 
interactions are expected. This is reflected in the SPC. 
In  a  clinical  study  with  healthy  subjects,  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6  (quinidine)  increased 
aripiprazole AUC by 107%, while Cmax was not changed. The AUC and Cmax of dehydro-aripiprazole, 
the  active  metabolite,  decreased  by  32%  and  47%.  Other  potent  inhibitors  of  CYP2D6,  such  as 
fluoxetine and paroxetine, may be expected to have similar effects.  
In  a  clinical  study  with  healthy  subjects,  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4  (ketoconazole)  increased 
aripiprazole AUC and Cmax by 63% and 37% respectively. The AUC and Cmax of dehydro-aripiprazole 
increased  by  77%  and  43%  respectively.  In  CYP2D6  poor  metabolisers,  concomitant  use  of  potent 
inhibitors of CYP3A4 may result in higher plasma concentrations of aripiprazole compared to that in 
CYP2D6  extensive  metabolizers.  Other  potent  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4,  such  as  itraconazole  and  HIV 
protease inhibitors, may be expected to have similar effects. 
Following concomitant administration of carbamazepine, a potent inducer of CYP3A4, the geometric 
means  of  Cmax  and  AUC  were  68%  and  73%  lower,  respectively,  compared  to  when  aripiprazole 
(30 mg) was administered alone. Similarly, for dehydro-aripiprazole the geometric means of Cmax and 
AUC  after  carbamazepine  co-administration  were  69%  and  71%  lower,  respectively,  than  those 
following aripiprazole alone treatment.  
Other potent inducers of CYP3A4 (such as rifampicin, rifabutin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, 
efavirenz, nevirapine and St. John's Wort) may be expected to have similar effects. 
Recommendation  on  the  dosage  adjustment  of  aripiprazole  in  case  of  co-administration  or 
discontinuation of the above enzymes inducers or inhibitors is given in the SPC (4.5). 
When  either  valproate  or  lithium  was  coadministered  with  aripiprazole,  there  was  no  clinically 
significant change in aripiprazole concentrations. 
Effects  of  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  drugs,  which  are  substrate  for  the  isozymes  involved  in 
aripiprazole  biotransformation,  such  as  dextromethorphan  (CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6),  warfarin 
(CYP2C9) and omeprazole (CYP2C19) were not significant.  
13/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
The H2 antagonist famotidine, a gastric acid blocker, reduces aripiprazole rate of absorption but this 
effect is deemed not clinical relevant.  
Activated charcoal was found to be a potential useful treatment for aripiprazole overdose. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  aripiprazole  clinical  program  for  schizophrenia  consisted  of  five  short-term  Phase II/III  studies, 
six  long-term  studies  and  five  special  studies.  Ten additional  Phase II/III  efficacy  studies  were 
conducted in Japan. 
Among the 5 short-term (4 to 6 weeks) phase II/III studies, two-phase II studies support efficacy:  31-
93-202  (an  ascending-dose  study)  and  31-94-202  (a  fixed-dose  study).  Three  Phase  III  studies  are 
considered key (pivotal) efficacy studies:  31-97-201 and 31-97-202 (4-week fixed-dose studies, each 
with  an  active  control)  and  CN138-001  (a  6-week,  fixed-dose  study).  The  studies  were  all 
multi-center, randomized, double blind, and placebo-controlled. Haloperidol was the active control in 
three studies (31-93-202, 31-94-202 and 31-97-201) and risperidone was used in one (31-97-202). At 
the conclusion of the short-term studies, eligible patients were given the option of continuing on long-
term  treatment,  either  in  the  extension  phase  of  the  protocol  that  the  patient  had  completed  (for 
patients in Study CN138-001) or in an open-label long-term study.  
Among the 6 long-term (26-52 weeks) studies, two double blind, active-controlled, long-term studies, 
31-98-217 and 31-98-304-01, enrolled patients who had not previously participated in an aripiprazole 
study.  The  two  studies  were  prospectively  designed  to  be  analysed  together.  These  studies  were 
52 weeks in duration and assessed maintenance of efficacy versus haloperidol. Study CN138-047
was 
a  long-term  26-week,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  study  providing  information  on  long-term 
maintenance  treatment.  Study  CN138-002  was  a  26-week  double  blind,  active-controlled  trial  to 
compare  safety  and  tolerability  of  aripiprazole  and  olanzapine  as  evidenced  by  weight  gain  during 
treatment.  
The applicant considers that the two additional studies should only be evaluated for safety:  31-98-213, 
because of its open-label design, and 31-97-301 because it was terminated early due to unsatisfactory 
dissolution tests of overencapsulted (blinded) tablets of haloperidol.  
The  five  special  studies  are  an  heterogeneous  group:  2  are  efficacy  studies  in  populations  different 
from  the  target  population,  namely  elderly  patients  with  dementia  (Study  31-98-203)  and  elderly 
patients with psychosis in Alzheimer’s dementia (study CN138-006). The other three (studies 31-98-
202, 31-99-224 and 31-98-215) are 2 dose-finding studies and a dose switching study based on safety 
parameters rather than on efficacy.  
Study 31-98-202 was later invalidated due to non-compliance with GCP.  
The diagram below summarises the most pertinent efficacy studies: 
Schizophrenia
N = 3151
Phase II
N = 368
Pivotal Phase III
N = 1203
Long-Term
N = 1580
31-93-202
31-97-201
31-98-217
31-94-202
31-97-202
31-98-304-01
CN138-001
CN138-047
14/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Short-Term Studies ( ≤ 6 Weeks) 
Phase II dose-ranging studies 
Study  31-93-202:  Efficacy  and  Tolerability  of  Ascending  Doses  of  aripiprazole  (5  mg  to  30  mg) 
Compared  to  Placebo  and  to  Haloperidol  (5  mg  to  20  mg)  in  Acutely  Relapsing  Hospitalised 
Schizophrenic Patients. 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  aripiprazole  (aripiprazole)  for  the 
treatment of acute schizophrenia and the tolerability of the effective doses.  
This  was  a  randomized,  multicentre,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group,  in-patient,  4-
week  study  of  ascending  doses  of  aripiprazole  in  acutely  relapsing  schizophrenic  (Diagnostic  and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th edition) (DSM-IV) criteria) male and female patients with 
a history of responding to antipsychotic drugs. 
A total of 103 patients were randomised: 34 in the aripiprazole group, 34 in the haloperidol group, and 
35 in the placebo group. A total of 53 patients completed the study: 21 in the aripiprazole group, 20 in 
the haloperidol group and 12 in the placebo group. The rate of dropouts was 49% (the estimative for 
sample size calculations was 30%). 
Data  on  the  primary  of  efficacy  endpoints  (change  from  baseline  to  the  last  visit  in  the  BPRS-total 
score  and  number  of  patients  with a reduction  of at  least  one  point from  baseline to last  visit in the 
CGI-severity  score)  are  presented  in  the  table  below.  The  secondary  determination  of  efficacy  was 
based on the change in score on the PANSS from baseline to the last visit. Responder rates and CGI 
Efficacy Index were also examined. 
Aripiprazole was found to be effective and generally well tolerated at a maximum dose of 30 mg/day. 
Aripiprazole showed some level of efficacy as measured by improvement in all illness severity scores 
(BPRS-total,  BPRS-core,  CGI-severity,  CGI-improvement,  and  PANSS-total)  prominently  after  2 
weeks  (escalation  period).  The  responder  rates  of  aripiprazole  compared  to  placebo  was  statistically 
significant (p=0.035) with regard to CGI-severity score. 
Table 31-93-202-BPRS total score 
Estimated 
treatment effect 
-6.25 
-6.41 
Aripiprazole vs pl 
Haloperidol vs pl 
p-value 
<0.02 
<0.01 
Lower 95% 
confidence limit 
-11.21 
-11.12 
Upper 95% 
confidence limit 
-1.29 
-1.70 
Table 31-93-202 –one point improvement in CGI severity score. 
% of 
responders 
Nº responders 
N 
33 
33 
35 
14 
18 
7 
42.4 
54.5 
20.0 
Treatment 
group 
aripiprazole 
haloperidol 
placebo 
Treatment 
comparision 
Ari vs pl 
Hal vs pl 
p-value 
p=0.035 
p=0.003 
Study 31-94-202: A Dose Ranging Study of the Efficacy and Tolerability of aripiprazole in Acutely 
Relapsing Hospitalised Schizophrenic Patients 
The primary objective of the study was to determine the original dose of aripiprazole for the treatment 
of  acute  schizophrenia.  This  was  a  randomized,  multicenter,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
parallel-group, in-patient, 4-week study of the efficacy and tolerability of three doses of aripiprazole: 2 
mg, 10 mg and 30 mg. 
The  primary  determination  of  efficacy  was  based  on  a  comparison  of  aripiprazole  treatment  groups 
versus  placebo  for:  (1)  psychotic  items  subscale  of  the  Brief  Psychiatric  Rating  Scale  (BPRS-score) 
change from baseline to last visit, and (2) Clinical Global Impression (CGI)-improvement at last visit. 
The  aripiprazole-30  mg  group  only  was  significantly  superior  to  placebo  at  the  last  visit  for  the 
primary endpoints of BPRS-core score (p=0.003) and CGI-improvement (p=0.0004). 
The following table summarises the results in the primary variables 
15/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 31-94-202–primary end-points 
Variable 
Treatment 
comparision 
Estimated 
treatment effect 
p-value 
Lower 95% 
confidence limit 
Upper 95% 
confidence limit 
BPRS core 
Arip 2mg vs pl 
Arip 10mg vs pl 
Arip 30mg vs pl 
Hal 10mg vs pl 
-1.31 
-0.76 
-2.21 
-2.26 
ns 
ns 
<.01 
<.01 
-2.93 
-2.40 
-3.82 
-3.86 
0.31 
0.87 
-0.60 
-0.66 
Table 31-94-202–primary end-points 
Variable 
Treatment 
comparision 
Estimated 
treatment effect 
p-value 
Lower 95% 
confidence limit 
Upper 95% 
confidence limit 
CGI-
improvement 
Arip 2mg vs pl 
Arip 10mg vs pl 
Arip 30mg vs pl 
Hal 10mg vs pl 
-0.41 
-0.56 
-0.97 
-0.59 
ns 
<0.05 
<0.01 
<0.05 
-0.95 
-1.11 
-1.51 
-1.12 
0.13 
- 0.02 
- 0.44 
- 0.06 
Overall, based on these 2 Phase II studies, the only dose of aripiprazole that clearly differentiate from 
placebo is 30 mg. Therefore it is uncertain if this is the minimal effective dose or the optimal dose. 
Phase III, short-term, placebo-controlled studies 
Three Phase III studies are considered key efficacy studies:  31-97-201 and 31-97-202 (4-week fixed-
dose studies, each with an active control) and CN138-001 (a 6-week, fixed-dose study). The studies 
were all multi-center, randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled. 
Study  31-97-201:  A  Phase  III,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled  Study  of  Aripiprazole  in  the 
Treatment of Psychosis 
The objectives of this study were to compare the safety and efficacy of two doses of aripiprazole (15 
mg  and  30  mg)  versus  placebo  for  the  treatment  of  acute  psychosis  (in  schizophrenia  and 
schizoaffective  disorder),  and  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  aripiprazole  on  the  negative  symptoms  of 
psychosis and the relationship of aripiprazole doses with time to response. 
This  study  was  a  multicenter,  4-week,  randomized,  double  blind,  parallel  group  comparison  of  the 
safety and efficacy of aripiprazole, haloperidol 10 mg, and placebo.  Approximately 400 patients who 
were  in  acute  relapse  with  a  diagnosis  of  schizophrenia  or  schizoaffective  disorder,  and  who  had 
previously responded to neuroleptics were to be enrolled in the study. The total number dropouts was 
40%. 
The  aripiprazole  15-mg  group  showed  significantly  greater improvement at  endpoint compared  with 
the placebo group on all efficacy measures (the mean change from baseline in the PANSS Total Score, 
PANSS Positive and CGI Severity of Illness Score as primary endpoints, PANSS Negative Subscale 
Scores,  and  the  percentage  of  responders  as  secondary  endpoints)  including  a  significant  difference 
from  the  placebo  group  in  time-to-response  analysis  for  the  CGI  Improvement  Score  (p  =  0.0122). 
Patients in the aripiprazole 30-mg group also improved similarly than the 15 mg group compared to 
placebo group.  
Study  31-97-202:  A  Phase  III,  Double  Blind,  Placebo-Controlled  Study  of  Aripiprazole  in  the 
Treatment of Psychosis, with Risperidone as Active Control 
The objectives of this study were to compare the safety and efficacy of 20-mg and 30-mg aripiprazole 
versus placebo for the treatment of acute psychosis (in schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder). In 
addition,  information  was  gathered  on  the  efficacy  of  aripiprazole  on  the  negative  symptoms  of 
psychosis and the relationship of aripiprazole doses with time to response. 
16/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
This  study  was  a  multicenter,  4-week,  randomized,  double  blind,  parallel-group  comparison  of  the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  aripiprazole,  risperidone  6  mg,  and  placebo.  Approximately  400  patients  who 
were  in  acute  relapse  with  a  diagnosis  of  schizophrenia  or  schizoaffective  disorder,  and  who  had 
previously responded to neuroleptics were to be enrolled in the study. 
Primary  efficacy  measures  where  based  on  mean  change  from  baseline  in  the  PANSS  Total  Score, 
PANSS  Positive  Subscale  Score  and  CGI  Severity  of  Illness  Score.  Secondary  endpoints  where 
measured on PANSS Negative Subscale Score, the mean CGI Improvement Score, mean change from 
baseline in the PANSS-Derived BPRS Core Score, and the percentage of responders. 
Of  the  404  randomized  patients,  289  had  a  diagnosis  of  schizophrenia  and  115  had  a  diagnosis  of 
schizoaffective disorder. Of the 289 patients with schizophrenia, 78 were randomized to the placebo 
group,  74  to  the  risperidone  group,  66  to  the  aripiprazole  20-mg  group,  and  71  to  the  aripiprazole 
30-mg group; 289 were included in the Safety Sample and 282 in the Efficacy Sample. One hundred 
eighty-three  (60%)  of  the  289  randomized  patients  with  a  diagnosis  of  schizophrenia  completed  the 
study. 
Both  the  aripiprazole  20-mg  group  and  the  aripiprazole  30-mg  group,  as  well  as  risperidone  6  mg, 
showed  significantly  greater  improvement  at  endpoint  compared  with  the  placebo  group  on  all 
efficacy measures. 
Study  CN  138-001:  A  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled  Study  of  Three 
Fixed Doses of Aripiprazole in the Treatment of Patients with Acute Schizophrenia 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of three fixed doses of aripiprazole 
(10,  15  and  20  mg)  with  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  acutely  relapsed  patients  with  a  diagnosis  of 
schizophrenia. 
The secondary objective of this study was to compare the safety of three fixed doses of aripiprazole 
with placebo in the treatment of acutely relapsed patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia 
This  study  was  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  trial  with  four  parallel 
groups of inpatients. The total number of dropouts was 66%. 
All  three  aripiprazole  treatment  groups  showed  statistically  significantly  greater  improvement  than 
placebo for the PANSS Total Score (the primary endpoint). The number of responders for CGI scores 
(a secondary endpoint) was statistically superior to placebo aripiprazole in the 20-mg group. 
The table below summarizes the PANSS total score for the 3 studies: 
PANSS Total Score; Model-Based Mean Change from Baseline at Endpoint; LOCF 
Data Set, Efficacy Sample; Key Phase III, Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Efficacy 
Studies for Schizophrenia 
Protocol/ 
Treatment 
31-97-201 (4-week study) 
Placebo 
Haloperidol 10 mg 
Aripiprazole 15 mg 
Aripiprazole 30 mg 
31-97-202 (4-week study) 
Placebo 
Risperidone 6 mg 
Aripiprazole 20 mg 
Aripiprazole 30 mg 
CN138-001 (6-week study) 
Placebo 
Aripiprazole 10 mg 
Aripiprazole 15 mg 
PANSS Total Score 
Change 
from 
Baseline 
Treatment Difference 
(95% CI) versus 
Placebo 
N 
Baseline 
102 
99 
99 
100 
103 
95 
98 
96 
107 
103 
103 
100.9 
99.9 
98.8 
99.6 
94.1 
92.6 
93.5 
91.6 
92.6 
92.9 
92.4 
-2.9 
-13.8 
-15.5 
-11.4 
-5.0 
-15.7 
-14.5 
-13.9 
-2.3 
-15.0 
-11.7 
-- 
-10.8 (-17.2, -4.5) 
-12.6 (-18.9, -6.3) 
-8.5 (-14.7, -2.2) 
-- 
-10.7 (-16.6, -4.9) 
-9.6 (-15.4, -3.8) 
-8.9 (-14.8, -3.1) 
-- 
-12.7 (-19.0, -6.4) 
-9.4 (-15.7, -3.1) 
P-Value 
-- 
0.0008 
0.0001 
0.0089 
-- 
0.0004 
0.0013 
0.0029 
-- 
0.0001 
0.0036 
17/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PANSS Total Score; Model-Based Mean Change from Baseline at Endpoint; LOCF 
Data Set, Efficacy Sample; Key Phase III, Short-Term, Placebo-Controlled Efficacy 
Studies for Schizophrenia 
Protocol/ 
Treatment 
Aripiprazole 20 mg 
N 
97 
Baseline 
91.9 
PANSS Total Score 
Change 
from 
Baseline 
-14.4 
Treatment Difference 
(95% CI) versus 
Placebo 
-12.1 (-18.5, -5.7) 
P-Value 
0.0002 
DISCUSSION ON THE EFFICACY IN THE PIVOTAL SHORT-TERM TRIALS 
All the patients enrolled in the 3 pivotal studies were diagnosed according to the criteria of DSM-IV 
for schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders. In these trials all patients enrolled (n =1203) had an 
acute relapse also defined according to DSM-IV criteria. All 3 trials were well-controlled, multicenter, 
appropriately dimensioned and enrolling patients well diagnosed. PANSS total score ranged between 
91 and 97 across dose groups. The CGI severity scale had a consistent median score of 5 (marked ill) 
across all dose groups. Approximately 80% of the patients had a diagnosis of schizophrenia. Most of 
the  patients  with  schizophrenia  had  the  subtype  of  paranoid  schizophrenia  or  undifferentiated 
schizophrenia. In fact only the 6 weeks trial enrolled a “clean” schizophrenia population. Nevertheless 
the large majority of the patients studied are schizophrenic making the trials valid to draw conclusions 
on the claimed indication.  
These trials have incorporated a short placebo run-in period (2 to 5 days). Two of them had a too short 
follow-up period (4 weeks) when the standard recommendation is 6 weeks. Furthermore the only trial 
that fulfils the recommended duration of follow-up has a quite high rate of dropouts 66%. 
The  results  of  the  3  short-term  pivotal  trials  are  consistent  in  showing  a  significant  effect  of 
aripiprazole as compared to placebo in the primary end-points, namely PANSS total score, the PANSS 
positive subscore scale and the CGI severity score.  
The  effects  found  in  the  secondary  end-points  as  well  as  in  responders  analysis  back  the  primary 
efficacy  analysis.  Furthermore  the  effect  size  of  aripiprazole  is  numerical  similar  to  the  active 
comparators used: haloperidol 10 mg and risperidone 6 mg. 
Important, however, is the fact that the aripiprazole doses used in these trials – 10, 15, 20 and 30 mg 
are not well discriminated by effect size. The CPMP acknowledge that the trials were not powered to 
allow  inter-dose  comparisons  but  numerical  effects  sizes  produced  by  these  different  doses  are  not 
increasing  as  one  would  expect  in  a  dose  dependent  process.  This  fact  induces  concern  because  the 
dose-finding studies did not produce clear-cut results either. 
The  CPMP  considers  that  aripiprazole  (10  to  30  mg)  was  proven  efficacious  in  the  short-term 
treatment of acute relapses in schizophrenia patients. However the optimal dose was not established. 
LONG TERM CONTROLLED STUDIES (> 26 WEEKS) 
The long term program consisted of one 26-week placebo-controlled study (CN138-047) and two (up 
to 52-week) haloperidol-controlled studies (31-98-217 and 31-98-304-01). The later two studies had 
nearly identical protocols and were prospectively designed to be analyzed as one study. Patients had 
not previously been enrolled in an aripiprazole study. 
Study 31-98-217/304-01 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  in  this  study  was  the  “time  to  failure  to  maintain  response”  in 
responders. 
• 
Failure to maintain response  was defined as (1) a CGI Improvement Score of 6 or 7 in two 
consecutive  evaluations  3  to  5  days  apart,  or  (2)  adverse  event  of  worsening  schizophrenia 
(including  hospitalisation  due  to  worsening  schizophrenia),  or  (3)  a  score  of  5  (moderately 
severe), 6 (severe), or 7 (extreme) in at least one of the four items of the psychotic subscale of 
the  PANSS  (i.e.,  delusions,  conceptual  disorganization,  hallucinatory  behaviour  and 
suspiciousness)  in  two  consecutive  evaluations  3  to  5  days  apart.  Of  the  two  evaluations,  the 
18/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
time-point of the first evaluation was used for determination of failure to maintain response. For 
patients who had missing data in the second follow-up evaluation to confirm failure to maintain 
response, the Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF) imputation method was used and these 
patients were considered to have failed. 
• 
Response  was  defined  as  a  >20%  decrease  from  baseline  in  PANSS  Total  Score  and,  at  the 
same visit, the patient did not meet any of the above three failure criteria. 
Secondary  efficacy  variables  were:  1)  change  from  baseline  in  PANSS  Total  Score,  2)  change  from 
baseline  in  PANSS  Positive  Subscale  Score,  3)  change  from  baseline  in  PANSS  Negative  Subscale 
Score,  4)  change  from  baseline  in  CGI  Severity  of  Illness  Score,  5)  CGI  Improvement  Score  as 
recorded,  6)  change  from  baseline  in  MADRS  Total  Score,  7)  Time  to  first  response,  8)  Time  from 
first  response  to  failure  to  maintain  response,  9)  Time  to  discontinuation  due  to  lack  of  response  to 
study drug, 10) Time to discontinuation due to lack of response to study drug or adverse event. 
The  discontinuation  rate  observed  in  the  study  was  57%  in  the  aripiprazole  group  and  70%  in  the 
haloperidol group. 
Results  on  the  primary  efficacy  parameter  (time  to  failure  to  maintain  response  in  responders).  No 
difference was seen between aripiprazole and haloperidol 10 mg. In a supportive analysis, the time to 
failure  in  all  randomized  patients  showed  a  positive  trend  favoring  aripiprazole  over  haloperidol 
(p = 0.084).  A  second  supportive  analysis,  the  percentage  of  patients  still  receiving  treatment  and  in 
response  at  Weeks  8,  26,  and  52,  significantly  favoured  aripiprazole  (p  ≤  0.005  at  all  weeks).  Both 
were  prospectively  defined  as  key  supportive  analyses  of  the  primary  analysis  and  are  clinically 
relevant.  
These results are summarized in the following table: 
Key Efficacy Results; LOCF Data Set; Long-Term, 
Active-Controlled Efficacy Studies for Schizophrenia 
(31-98-217 and 31-98-304-01) 
Variable 
Number of patients in Randomized Sample 
Number of patients in Efficacy Sample 
Number (%) Responders 
Primary Analysis (Time to failure in Responders) 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI) (aripiprazole:  haloperidol) 
Number (%) of failures 
Proportiona (S.D.) of patients not yet failed  
Week 8 
Week 26 
Week 52 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI) (aripiprazole : haloperidol) 
Number (%) of failures 
Proportion (S.D.) of patients not yet failed 
Week 8 
Week 26 
Week 52 
Supportive Analysis #2  
On-treatment and in response (N [%])b 
Week 8 
Week 26 
Week 52 
a  Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
b The denominator is the number randomized. 
Haloperidol  Aripiprazole 
433 
430 
298 (69%) 
861 
853 
610 (72%) 
P-Value 
-- 
-- 
0.362 
0.881 (0.645 - 1.204) 
58 (19%) 
125 (20%) 
93.0 (1.5%) 
81.1 (2.6%) 
73.3 (3.1%) 
91.7 (1.1%) 
83.5 (1.6%) 
77.4 (1.8%) 
0.858 (0.721 - 1.021) 
193 (45%) 
376 (44%) 
0.4271 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
0.0839 
-- 
68.5 (2.3%) 
55.6 (2.6%) 
49.2 (2.7%) 
71.4 (1.6%) 
59.8 (1.7%) 
54.0 (1.8%) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
192 (44%) 
145 (33%) 
117 (27%) 
449 (52%) 
380 (44%) 
343 (40%) 
0.005 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
Secondary Efficacy Results: Aripiprazole was statistically superior to haloperidol as determined by the 
time to discontinuation due to either lack of response to study drug or adverse event (P < 0.001). The 
risk ratio for this event was 0.692 (95% CI: 0.573 - 0.837) indicating that the risk of discontinuation 
due  to  either  lack  of  response  to  study  drug  or  adverse  event  was  31%  lower  for  the  aripiprazole 
treated patients relative to the patients treated with haloperidol. 
19/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other  secondary  time-to-event  variables  included  in  this  study  were  time  to  first  response  (all 
randomized  patients),  time  to  discontinuation  due  to  lack  of  response  to  study  drug  (all  randomized 
patients),  and  time  from  first  response  to  failure  to  maintain  response  (responders  only).  No 
statistically significant differences were observed between the two treatment groups in these variables. 
Aripiprazole  showed  significant  improvement  over  haloperidol  in  the  treatment  of  negative  and 
depressive  symptoms.  The  improvement  in  treatment  of  negative  symptoms  was  demonstrated  by 
significant  differences  in  the  comparison  of  mean  change  from  baseline  in  the  PANSS  Negative 
Subscale  Score  at  Weeks  26  (P  =  0.029)  and  52  (P  =  0.011)  based  on  the  LOCF  data  set.  The 
improvement in treatment of depressive symptoms was demonstrated by statistical differences in the 
comparison of mean change from baseline in MADRS Total Score at Weeks 8 (P = 0.027), 26 (P = 
0.022), and 52 (P = 0.031) (LOCF data set). 
Study  CN138-047:  A  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Placebo  Controlled,  26  Week  Study 
of  a  Fixed  Dose  of  Aripiprazole  (15  mg)  in  the  Treatment  of  Stabilized  Patients  with  Chronic 
Schizophrenia 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the time to relapse from randomization of patients 
receiving  15  mg  of  aripiprazole  versus  placebo  over  a  minimum  of  26  weeks  in  the  treatment  of 
stabilized  patients  with  chronic  schizophrenia,  as  measured  by  Clinical  Global  Impression  of 
Improvement (CGI-I) score or change in PANSS Total score. 
The  primary  research  hypothesis  –  primary  endpoint:  time  to  relapse  from  randomization-  was  that 
stabilized patients with chronic schizophrenia in the placebo group would relapse sooner than patients 
in the aripiprazole 15-mg treatment group. Relapse was defined as one or more of the following: (1) a 
CGI-I Score of ≥ 5 (minimally worse), or (2) a PANSS Total Score of ≥ 5 (moderately severe) on the 
items of hostility or uncooperativeness on 2 successive days, or (3) a ≥ 20% increase in the PANSS 
Total Score.  
Secondary efficacy measures were: 1) number of relapses, 2) time to relapse or discontinuation due to 
lack  of  efficacy,  3)  time  to  relapse  or  to  discontinuation  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  or  to  adverse  event 
(AE),  4)  mean  change  from  baseline  in  the  PANSS  Total  Score,  PANSS  Positive  Subscale  Score, 
PANSS Negative Subscale Score, and the PANSS-Derived BPRS Core Score, 5) mean CGI-I Score, 
and  6)  mean  change from  baseline in the  CGI Severity of  Illness  Score. These  secondary objectives 
were to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of aripiprazole relative to placebo in the treatment 
of stabilized patients with chronic schizophrenia. 
The discontinuation rate was 54% in the aripiprazole group and 71% in the placebo. 
Compared to placebo, 26 weeks of treatment with aripiprazole 15 mg once daily significantly reduced 
the incidence of relapse of acute schizophrenia. At Week 26, 62.6% of the aripiprazole-treated patients 
had  not  relapsed  relative  to  39.4%  of  patients  randomized  to  placebo.  Aripiprazole  treatment  was 
associated with a 50% reduction in the risk for relapse compared to placebo. 
On the PANSS Total Score aripiprazole was significantly better than placebo starting at Week 6 and 
continuing  to  the  end  of  the  study.  Given  the  design  of  the  study  this  suggests  that  it  is  possible  to 
switch stable schizophrenic patients to aripiprazole without worsening the underlying condition.  
A summary of efficacy results for the LOCF data set is shown in the following table. 
 Table CN-138-047: 
Summary of Efficacy Results for Study CN138-047; LOCF Data Set, Efficacy Sample 
Variable 
PRIMARY EFFICACY ENDPOINT 
Time to Relapse  
  Estimated Survival Rate (%)a (S.E.) 
SECONDARY ENDPOINTS 
Number of Relapses 
  N (%) 
(S.E.) 
Treatment Group 
Placebo  
N  = 149 
Aripiprazole 
N  = 148 
Aripiprazole vs. Placebo 
RR (95% CI) 
39.4 (4.24) 
62.6 (4.22) 
0.50** (0.35, 0.71) 
85 (57) 
(4.07) 
50 (34) 
(3.90) 
0.59** (0.45, 0.75) 
20/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table CN-138-047: 
Summary of Efficacy Results for Study CN138-047; LOCF Data Set, Efficacy Sample 
Variable 
Time to Relapse or to Discontinuation Due to 
Lack of Efficacy  
  Estimated Survival Rate (%)b (S.E.) 
Time to Relapse or to Discontinuation Due to 
Lack of Efficacy or to AE 
  Estimated Survival Rate (%)b (S.E.) 
PANSS Total Score  
  Mean Baseline (N) 
  Mean Change at Week 6 (N) 
  Mean Change at Week 26 (N) 
PANSS Positive Subscale Score  
  Mean Baseline (N) 
  Mean Change at Week 6 (N) 
  Mean Change at Week 26 (N) 
PANSS Negative Subscale Score  
  Mean Baseline (N) (S.E.) 
  Mean Change at Week 6 (N) (S.E.) 
  Mean Change at Week 26 (N) (S.E.) 
PANSS-Derived BPRS Core Score 
  Mean Baseline (N) (S.E.) 
  Mean Change at Week 6 (N) (S.E.) 
  P-value 
  Mean Change at Week 26 (N) (S.E.) 
  P-value 
CGI Severity of Illness Score 
  Mean Baseline (S.E.) 
  Mean Change at Week 6 (S.E.) 
  Mean Change at Week 26 (S.E.) 
  P-value 
CGI Improvement Score 
  Mean at Week 6 (S.E.) 
  P-value 
  Mean at Week 26 (S.E.) 
  P-value 
Treatment Group 
Placebo  
N  = 149 
Aripiprazole 
N  = 148 
Aripiprazole vs. Placebo 
RR (95% CI) 
39.4 (4.24) 
62.6 (4.22) 
0.50** (0.36, 0.72) 
38.1 (4.17) 
58.8 (4.22) 
0.56** (0.40, 0.78) 
83.12 (147) 
1.78 (147) 
4.50 (147) 
17.47 (147) 
1.23 (147) 
2.37 (147) 
81.22 (146) 
-2.04 (146) 
-2.08 (146) 
17.48 (146) 
-0.04 (146) 
0.12 (146) 
-1.90 (-4.01, 0.21) 
-3.82* (-7.18, -0.45) 
-6.59** (-10.77, -2.40) 
0.01 (-0.78, 0.80) 
-1.27* (-2.33, -0.21) 
-2.24** (-3.54, -0.95) 
23.72 (147) (0.33) 
-0.78 (147) (0.30) 
-0.54 (147) (0.41) 
23.13 (146) (0.33) 
-1.04 (146) (0.31) 
-1.40 (146) (0.41) 
-0.58 (-1.43, 0.27) 
-0.27 (-1.06, 0.52) 
-0.85 (-1.91, 0.21) 
11.52 (147) (0.22) 
0.56 (147) (0.27) 
0.01 < p ≤ 0.05 
1.17 (147) (0.33) 
≤ 0.01 
11.39 (146) (0.22) 
-0.27 (146) (0.26) 
-0.12 (-0.68, 0.43) 
-0.83 (-1.50, -0.15) 
-0.21 (146) (0.32) 
-1.37 (-2.20, -0.54) 
3.55 (0.03) 
0.20 (0.06) 
0.40 (0.07) 
0.01 < p ≤ 0.05 
4.13 (0.10) 
≤ 0.01 
4.48 (0.11) 
≤ 0.01 
3.49 (0.03) 
0.06 (0.06) 
0.15 (0.07) 
-0.05 (-0.14, 0.03) 
-0.15 (-0.30, 0.01) 
-0.25 (-0.44, -0.06) 
3.69 (0.10) 
3.77 (0.12) 
DISCUSSION ON THE EFFICACY IN LONG-TERM TRIALS 
Trials  31-98-217/304-01  used  aripiprazole  in  a  targeted  dose  of  30  mg/d  and  compared  it  to 
haloperidol 10 mg. Initially, the trials were designed as a superiority comparison, expected to provide 
sufficient  statistical  power  to  detect  a  difference  between  aripiprazole  and  haloperidol  in  the  rate  of 
maintenance of response (i.e. not failing) at 52 weeks and in the mean changes in PANSS total score at 
8 weeks. As  no statistical  difference  between  arms  was observed,  maintenance therapy  is not firmly 
established.  Another  potential  problem  is  that  response  has  a  clear  operative  definition  but  no  clear 
timeframe to be assessed. In this context it is a moving targeted that can happen at 4 weeks but also, 
theoretically, at 26 weeks. The operational definition of response itself is not very stringent because it 
postulates only 20% improvement in PANSS total score.  
However,  the  trials  provide  long-term  data  obtained  in  randomised,  double  blind  conditions. 
Haloperidol 10 mg is an acceptable comparator. There is no signal that this comparator had performed 
particularly bad in these trials. The number of responders in both groups was high 69% for haloperidol 
and 72% for aripiprazole. These high rates can however be an indicator that the definition of responder 
was not indeed too stringent. In any case the rates are numerically similar. At end-point 52 w the rates 
of maintenance of response are also high and numerically alike 73.3% for haloperidol and 77.4% for 
aripiprazole.  Further  more  the  completion  rate  is  significantly  higher  for  patients  on  aripiprazole 
21/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(43%) than for haloperidol (30%). This difference is at cost of a lower rate of discontinuation due to 
adverse events other than worsening of schizophrenia. It is also important to note that discontinuations 
due to insufficient clinical response were low: haloperidol 9% and aripiprazole 7%. 
In addition, study CN138-047could help supporting the maintenance therapy claim, as this study is a 
kind  of  relapse  prevention  study  placebo  controlled  although  it  does  not  include  the  acute  treatment 
phase and starts with stable patients. The dose of aripiprazole in this trial was 15 mg. At 6 months the 
relapse rate was 37.4% for the aripiprazole group and 60.6% for the placebo group (p<0.01). 
Unfortunately,  the  issue  of  finding  the  best-recommended  dose  was  not  addressed  properly  and  the 
long-term trials are illustrative: one uses 30 mg and the other 15 mg. 
Concerns were raised by CPMP regarding the design of the long-term studies for the demonstration of 
the long-term efficacy on the maintenance of the acute antipsychotic effects of aripiprazole.  
The  applicant  was  asked  to  explain  or  clarify  issues  such  as  (1)  the  differences  in  the  definitions  of 
failure to maintain response in the 52-weeks trial and for relapse in the 26 weeks trial. Furthermore it 
was  noted  that  the  definition  included  “worsening  of  schizophrenia”  as  an  AE.  There  were  doubts 
about how this was counted in the actual analysis, (2) the design of the long-term trial in relation with 
the lack of time frame for the occurrence of a defined response, in order to allow meaningfulness to 
the  primary  end-point  –  time  to  failure  maintenance  of  response,  (3)  in  the  26-weeks  relapse 
prevention  study  (CM138-047),  the  inclusion  only  of  stable  schizophrenic  patients  and  its  relevance 
for the general schizophrenic population.  
The applicant performed analyses for each study (52 weeks and 26 weeks) by using the definition of 
failure to maintain response from the other study and showed that the results were unchanged. 
Further  data  provided  by  the  company  shows  that  the  large  majority  of  responses  did  occur  in  the 
acute phase of the trial (first 8 weeks). In this perspective the data provided by the 52-week trial is not 
essentially different from the one provided with other atypical antipsychotics. 
Regarding the extra analysis done at CPMP request, observed case (OC), LOCF, additional method of 
imputation  (Mixed  effects  Model  Repeated  Measures  analysis  (MMRM)),  responders  only  analysis, 
all  are  consistent  in  showing  a  positive  effect  of  aripiprazole  which  is  numerically  and  occasionally 
statistically  superior  to  haloperidol.  These  analyses  provide  support  for  the  relevance  of  the  effect 
despite the definition of response being set at a reduction of 20% on PANSS. 
In the 26-weeks relapse prevention study (CM138-047), aripiprazole showed superiority over placebo. 
This  is  important  additional  data  but  refers  to  a  particular  population  and  not  the  usual  population 
(those that were controlled after an acute episode) in which it is important to assess the prevention of 
relapse and therefore maintenance of effect. Therefore, this trial is considered to be a supportive trial 
but cannot provide pivotal data because of the target population. 
DISCUSSION ON GCP INSPECTIONS 
Study 31-98-217/304 was the result of two identical protocols designed to be analyzed together. One 
protocol  was  conducted  in  the  USA  and  the  other  in  Europe,  Australia,  New  Zealand  and  South 
Africa. The non-USA protocol was conducted in a large number of centres 80% of which were located 
in  Europe  (Western  and  Eastern).  In  fact  most  of  the  Western  European  centres  (the  exception  was 
France)  failed  to  enrol  a  significant  number  of  patients  and  the  European  contribution  came  mostly 
from  Russia,  Poland,  Bulgaria  and  Hungary.  The  CPMP  requested  a  GCP  inspection,  as  this  study 
concerns  a  vulnerable  psychiatric  population  and  as  much  of  the  data  comes  from  countries  where 
GCP  inspections  for  Centralised  Procedure  applications  had  not  yet  been  carried  out.  A  number  of 
inspections were carried out at clinical investigator sites, firstly in Estonia and Bulgaria. 
This  first  EMEA  inspection  found  critical  findings  in  1  of  the  2  centres  inspected.  The  important 
inspection findings pertain to several aspects that threatened the validity of the data, such as dosing, 
amendments, and monitoring: 
1. 
The initial doses in the trials (aripiprazole 30 mg and haloperidol 10 mg) could be reduced after 
1  week  during  the  trial  if  the  patient  was  considered  intolerant.  The  adjustment  of  dose  was 
poorly documented at one of the sites inspected. The other site had succeeded in documenting 
the  dose  adjustments.    The  failures  related  to  poor  design  of  the  tear-off  labels  of  the  study 
22/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
medication, the CRFs and other forms used to document the dose.  If this would have happened 
in other centers the true dose administered would be impossible to confirm retrospectively 
2. 
The  definition  of  response  was  amended  3  times  during  the  trial  always  to  loosen  its  criteria. 
The last time was just one month before the end of the study. One of the amendments proposed 
the  introduction  of  “worsening  of  schizophrenia”  as  an  Adverse  Events  in  the  definition.  The 
inspection  found  a  problem  in  the  classification  of  2  such  Adverse  Events  at  one  of  the 
inspected sites. 
3. 
There were concerns about the failure of the company's internal monitoring / audit to detect and 
resolve the problems in particular in relation to the dose administered 
In order to determine which were isolated and which were systematic problems, CPMP requested a re-
inspection of the trial, at four additional clinical investigator sites (3 in Russia and 1 in France) and at 
the CRO responsible for monitoring the trial in Europe. In addition the applicant conducted a 
comprehensive internal audit of the trial, by an independent third party.  
The re-inspection confirmed that there were problems in reconstructing the actual dose administered to 
patients after the dose adjustment (or whether or not this adjustment took place).  Additional concerns 
were  raised  about  the  training  of  investigators  and  standardisation  of  the  PANSS  assessments, 
including  the  use  of  local  language  in  this  regard,  although  the  final  PANSS  scores  were  being 
completed  in  English,  as  that  is  the  validated  version  The  answer  of  the  applicant  regarding  these 
concerns did not fully resolve the issues raised by the inspectors, but the CPMP considered based on 
the information assessed that the results of the study could nonetheless be used to support long-term 
efficacy, when considered in conjunction with  other trials.  
However,  critical  discrepancies  in  the  listings  of  batch  numbers  in  the  final  study  report  were 
uncovered  during  these  inspections,  which  led  to  a  significant  revision  by  the  applicant  of  listings 
identifying  the  batches  of  product  used  and  taken  by  the  patients  during  the  study.    The  CPMP 
remained  concerned  that  the  underlying  assignment  of  treatments  to  patients  might  have  been 
compromised. Consequently, a GMP inspection was requested for the study 31-98-304-01 in order to 
review  a  sample  of  batch  records  relating  to  the  packaging  processes  for  the  clinical  trial  materials. 
The inspection provided assurance that the integrity of the supplies had not been compromised. 
Clinical safety 
The All Aripiprazole Data Set includes all patients treated with aripiprazole in all Phase II/III studies 
involving patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia, bipolar mania, or dementia.  
A  total  of  4947  subjects  and  patients  were  exposed  to  aripiprazole  in  studies  conducted  in  North 
America, Europe, and the rest of the world other than Japan; 748 in clinical pharmacology studies and 
4199 in Phase II/III studies. 
The  4199  patients  in  the  All  Aripiprazole  Data  Set  treated  with  aripiprazole  in  Phase  II/III  studies 
represent 2180 patient exposure years. Of these, 1293 (30.8%) patients were treated with aripiprazole 
for  6  months  or  longer.  Eight  hundred  and  five  (19.2%)  patients  received  aripiprazole  for  at  least  1 
year with 238 (5.7%) patients continuing aripiprazole treatment for at least 2 years. 
A total of 3476 patients in the All Schizophrenia Data Set were treated with aripiprazole in Phase II/III 
studies  representing  2024  patient  exposure  years.  Of  these,  1213  (34.9%)  patients  were  treated  with 
aripiprazole for 6 months or longer. Eight hundred (23.0%) patients received aripiprazole for at least 1 
year with 238 (6.8%) patients continuing aripiprazole treatment for at least 2 years. 
All four of the fixed-dose design studies were pooled for purposes of assessing treatment related AEs 
by dose (Table 1). Aripiprazole was similarly tolerated across the entire dose range. 
ADRs were considered as reasonably attributable to the drug when they occurred at an incidence of 
≥ 1%  increase  over  placebo  as  well  as  those  that  occurred  at  a  lower  incidence  and  were  deemed 
clinically important. ADRs are listed in Table 2. 
23/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
Table 1: 
N = Safety Sample 
N with ≥ 1 AE 
Body as a Whole 
  Headache 
  Asthenia 
Digestive System 
  Constipation 
  Vomiting 
  Nausea 
  Dyspepsia 
  Diarrhea 
Nervous System 
Insomnia 
  Somnolence 
  Akathisia 
  Lightheadedness 
  Anxiety 
  Agitation 
Incidence of Treatment-Related AEs Occurring in At Least Five Percent of 
Patients: 31-94-202, 31-97-201, 31-97-202, CN138-001 
Placebo 
N (%) 
378 
219 (57.9) 
Ari 15mg 
N (%) 
207 
135(65.2) 
Ari 20mg 
N (%) 
199 
137(68.8) 
Ari 10mg 
N (%) 
165 
107(64.8) 
Ari 2 mg 
N (%) 
59 
35(59.3) 
Ari 30mg 
N (%) 
262 
178(67.9) 
45 (11.9) 
16 (4.2) 
12(20.3) 
4(6.8) 
34(20.6) 
7(4.2) 
30(14.5) 
9(4.3) 
46(23.1) 
7(3.5) 
34(13.0) 
15(5.7) 
19 (5.0) 
20 (5.3) 
26 (6.9) 
26 (6.9) 
19 (5.0) 
36 (9.5) 
27 (7.1) 
17 (4.5) 
15 (4.0) 
26 (6.9) 
44 (11.6) 
3(5.1) 
4(6.8) 
2(3.4) 
5(8.5) 
1(1.7) 
11(18.6) 
6(10.2) 
1(1.7) 
4(6.8) 
0 
1(1.7) 
9(5.5) 
11(6.7) 
16(9.7) 
20(12.1) 
4(2.4) 
22(13.3) 
12(7.3) 
12(7.3) 
13(7.9) 
7(4.2) 
9(5.5) 
10(4.8) 
11(5.3) 
22(10.6) 
19(9.2) 
4(1.9) 
30 (14.5) 
17(8.2) 
12(5.8) 
18(8.7) 
20(9.7) 
22(10.6) 
14(7.0) 
24(12.1) 
31(15.6) 
17(8.5) 
11(5.5) 
38(19.1) 
13(6.5) 
17(8.5) 
22(11.1) 
18(9.0) 
22(11.1) 
20(7.6) 
18(6.9) 
16(6.1) 
13(5.0) 
7(2.7) 
37(14.1) 
33(12.6) 
31(11.8) 
24(9.2) 
22(8.4) 
16(6.1) 
Table 2: 
Adverse Drug Reactions: Placebo-Corrected Incidence  
(At Least One Percent Greater Than Placebo) in Short and Long-Term Studies 
# Pts in Safety Sample 
Body as a Whole 
Headache 
Asthenia 
Digestive System 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Dyspepsia 
Constipation 
Nervous System 
Lightheadedness 
Insomnia 
Akathisia 
Somnolence 
Tremor 
Special Senses 
Blurred Vision 
Aripiprazole 
1079 
% 
4.71 
1.17 
2.97 
2.54 
2.38 
2.12 
4.98 
4.23 
3.46 
2.51 
1.46 
1.04 
Serious Adverse Events: The incidence of SAEs in the all schizophrenia data set is similar to that seen 
in the all aripiprazole data set. Aside from psychosis which was discussed previously in the efficacy 
section, no treatment-related SAE occurred at an incidence of ≥ 1%. 
Suicide:  Suicide  is  associated  with  the  disease  state  of  schizophrenia.  Recent  estimates  of  the 
completed  suicide  rate  for  individuals  with  schizophrenia  range  from  10%  to  13%.  In  the  all 
schizophrenia data set, there were ten patients who died as a result of a suicide attempt. The incidence 
of completed suicide associated with aripiprazole treatment (0.3%) is similar to the incidence reported 
with other atypical antipsychotics. 
Deaths:  In the all aripiprazole  data  set  there  were  40 deaths. Nineteen patients were  elderly  patients 
participating in the 3 studies of psychosis associated with Dementia of the Alzheimer’s Type. These 
studies included patients between 56 - 99 years of age (mean age 81.8 years) and the causes of death in 
these studies are those typically associated with the advanced age of this population. Of the 21 deaths 
occurring in schizophrenic patients, none were in the short-term placebo controlled studies. All were 
determined to be unrelated to study medication with the exception of one suicide death reported to be 
possibly related to study medication.  
24/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuations Due To Adverse Events: In the all schizophrenia data set, the percentage of patients 
who discontinued due to AEs was 23.6%, similar to the discontinuation rate in the all aripiprazole data 
set.  The  percentage  of  patients  who  discontinued  for  treatment-related  AEs  was  8.0%.  The  most 
frequent  treatment-related  AE  which  led  to  discontinuation,  aside  from  psychosis  was  akathisia 
(0.95%).  
In the short-term studies, the percentage of patients in the aripiprazole group who discontinued due to 
AEs  was  similar  to  the  placebo,  haloperidol  and  risperidone  groups.  There  was  no  apparent 
relationship between aripiprazole dose level and the overall incidence of discontinuation due to AEs. 
In  the  double-blind  long  term  studies,  the  percentage  of  patients  in  the  aripiprazole  groups  who 
discontinued  due  to  AEs  was  slightly  greater  than  placebo,  but  lower  than  haloperidol.  A  higher 
percentage of patients in the haloperidol group relative to aripiprazole discontinued treatment due to 
extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS)-related AEs. 
Adverse events by class and special interest: 
Specific  adverse  events  associated  with  the  antipsychotic  class  of  drugs  include  tardive  dyskinesia, 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), and seizure. In this class, additional adverse events of special 
interest  include  weight  gain,  QTc  prolongation,  hyperprolactinemia,  and  extrapyramidal  syndrome. 
Although,  the  specific  data  related  to  aripiprazole  did  not  point  to  such  adverse  drug  reactions,  the 
safety data sets of aripiprazole were specifically investigated in regards to these AEs.  
Adverse events associated with antipsychotic class of drug:  
Tardive Dyskinesia: The risks of developing tardive dyskinesia, and the potential that it will become 
irreversible,  are  believed  to  increase  with  the  duration  of  treatment  and  total  cumulative  dose.  The 
syndrome can, however, develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. All patients in 
the  schizophrenia  clinical  studies  were  at  risk  for  tardive  dyskinesia,  as  a  requirement  in  all  studies 
was  response  to  prior  treatment  with  an  antipsychotic  agent.  In  the  all  aripiprazole  data  set,  the 
incidence  of  tardive  dyskinesia  was  0.38%,  and  in  the  all  schizophrenia  data  set  the  incidence  was 
0.43%. The treatment-related AE incidence in the all schizophrenia data set was 0.35%. The incidence 
of  first  onset  of  tardive  dyskinesia  did  not  increase  with  exposure  to  aripiprazole.  In  the  long-term 
studies, the incidence of tardive dyskinesia in the aripiprazole group was similar to haloperidol.  
Neuroleptic  Malignant  Syndrome  (NMS):  Neuroleptic  Malignant  Syndrome,  a  rare  event  related  to 
treatment  with  neuroleptics,  is  a  medical  emergency.  The  incidence  of  reported  NMS  during 
aripiprazole  exposure  in  the  all  aripiprazole  data  set  was  0.02%  (1/4199  patients).  One  additional 
patient from a double-blind study in bipolar mania had NMS reported as an AE. However, the reported 
NMS  started  17  days  after  the  last  dose  of  aripiprazole  and  the  patient  had  initiated  therapy  with 
risperidone  and  haloperidol.  The  incidence  of  NMS  is  below  the  lower  end  of  the  incidence  range 
documented in the literature (i.e., 0.07 - 0.2% in the data from prospective studies) 
Seizures:  In  the  all  aripiprazole  data  set,  the  number  of  patients  with  an  AE  of  seizure,  grand  mal 
seizure  or abnormal EEG  was  16 (0.38%). Nine  of  the  16 patients  had confounding  factors,  such as 
prior  history,  concurrent  illness,  or  concomitant  medications,  that  might  have  contributed  to  the 
occurrence of seizure-related AEs.  
Other adverse events of special interest: 
Extrapyramidal Syndrome (EPS): EPS was assessed by reviewing spontaneous reporting of EPS and 
EPS-related  AEs  (dystonia,  parkinsonism,  akathisia,  dyskinetic  and  residual  events),  incidence  of 
concomitant  medications  for  the  potential  treatment  of  EPS-related  AEs,  and  also  in  a  structured 
assessment using Simpson-Angus score, Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) and Barnes 
Akathisia Global Assessment. The rating scale data corroborates the spontaneously reported AE data.  
A summary of the incidence of treatment-emergent EPS-related AEs is presented in table below 
25/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
Table 23: 
Active-Controlled Studies, Safety Sample 
Percentage of Patients with Treatment-Emergent EPS-Related AEs: Summary of Placebo and 
Placebo 
Haloperidol 
Risperidone 
Olanzapine 
Aripiprazole 
Short-Term Placebo-
Controlled Studies  
(4 - 6 Weeks) 
Short-Term Placebo-
Controlled Studies 
Long-Term Comparator 
Studies 
CN138-002 (26 Weeks) 
31-98-213 (26 Weeks)  
31-98-217 and 31-98-304-01 
(52 Weeks) 
CN138-047 (26 Weeks) 
80/413  
(19.4%)
87/200   (43.5%)   30/99  (30.3%)    -- 
  195/926  (21.1%)   
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
255/431  (59.2%)  
20/153  
(13.1%)
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
  25/159  (15.7%)    26/155 
  16/123  (13.0%)    22/127 
  -- 
(16.8%)   
(17.3%)   
  233/859  (27.1%)   
  -- 
  -- 
  31/153 
(20.3%)   
  5/105  
(4.8%) 
CN138-006 (10 Weeks) 
4/102  
(3.9%) 
-- 
In the all schizophrenia data set, the incidence of EPS-related AEs was 25.6%, similar to the incidence 
seen for the all aripiprazole data set. The treatment-related incidence of EPS-related AEs was 21.2%. 
In  the  short-term  placebo-controlled  studies,  the  incidence  of  EPS  and  EPS-related  AEs,  for 
aripiprazole-treated  patients  (6.0%  for  EPS  and  21.1%  for  EPS-related  AEs)  was  similar  to  that  of 
placebo  and  approximately  one-half  of  the  haloperidol  group  (19.5%  for  EPS  and  43.5%  for  EPS-
related AEs, p < 0.001). There was no apparent relationship between the incidence of EPS events and 
dose. In the long-term controlled studies, the incidence of EPS-related AEs observed for aripiprazole 
(20.3%)  was  greater  than  that  of  placebo,  similar  to  olanzapine  and  approximately  one-half  the 
frequency seen with haloperidol (59.2%, p < 0.001). In general these findings suggest that EPS does 
not increase with extended exposure to aripiprazole. 
QTc Prolongation: QT intervals were read by a central ECG service and corrected for heart rate using 
the Bazett’s formula. The data were analyzed to determine the incidence of QTc prolongation based on 
the  following  criteria:  > 450 msec  from  baseline  in  adult  males,  > 470 msec  for  adult  females, 
> 500 msec, increase from baseline ≥ 30 msec and increase from baseline > 60 msec. Means changes 
in baseline for QTc were also evaluated. 
In  the  short  term  studies,  both  the  percentage  of  patients  with  QTc  prolongation  and  mean  change 
from baseline in QTc were comparable between aripiprazole and placebo. In contrast, risperidone was 
associated  with  a  significant  increase  in  mean  QTc  compared  to  placebo  (p < 0.001)  and  a  greater 
proportion  of  patients  with  QTc  prolongation  (p = 0.048  for  the  > 450/> 470  msec  parameter).  The 
proportion of patients with an increase in QTc ≥ 30 msec was also significantly greater for haloperidol 
-(p = 0.026)  and  risperidone  (p = 0.001)  compared  to  placebo.  In  the  long-term  studies,  for 
aripiprazole  the  incidence  of QTc prolongation was less than  placebo,  and less than  or equal to that 
seen for haloperidol. 
Effects  on  Prolactin:  Increase  in  prolactin  is  associated  with  the  use  of  conventional  antipsychotics, 
and has been noted with some atypical agents (i.e., high doses of risperidone > 6 mg/day).  
For  the  short-term  and  long-term  controlled  studies,  patients  in  the  aripiprazole  group  had  median 
percent  decreases  from  baseline  in  serum  prolactin.  In  contrast,  median  percent  increases  from 
baseline in serum prolactin were observed for the haloperidol and risperidone groups. In the 52-week 
controlled study, the median percent change for aripiprazole was significant and lower than that seen 
for haloperidol.  
The prolactin values for the majority of the patients in the aripiprazole group remained within normal 
limits.  
Weight  Gain:  with  regard  to  weight  gain  and  other  metabolic  abnormalities,  the  data  indicate  that 
treatment  with  aripiprazole  has  a  minimal  effect  on  weight  and  a  favorable  reduction  in  serum 
cholesterol. 
26/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary on clinical safety 
Aripiprazole  was  in  general  safe  and  well  tolerated.  No  deleterious  effect  on  the  blood  series  is 
apparent;  there  is  no  signal  that  QTc  prolongation  that  might  be  a  clinical  relevant  problem,  the 
incidence  of  EPS  is  globally  low  in  the  same  range  as  olanzapine  and  much  lower  than  haloperidol 
even  lower  than  risperidone.  The  mean  prolactin  levels  are  decreased  what  is  the  opposite  to  the 
common  effect  of  antipsychotics  that  usually  increase  prolactin.  Furthermore  aripiprazole  do  not 
induce clinically meaningful weight increase. 
Orthostatic  hypotension  was  more  frequent  with  aripiprazole  than  with  haloperidol  and  similar  to 
risperidone.  Furthermore  nausea  and  vomiting  in  long-term  were  worse  for  aripiprazole  than  for 
haloperidol  but  in  short-term  aripiprazole  showed  an  advantage  over  the  comparators.  Overall  the 
differences although present are not extremely large. These findings are reported in the SPC. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CPMP opinion there were some unresolved minor quality issues which had no impact on 
the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow  up 
measures within an agreed timeframe.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Aripiprazole is a new antipsychotic belonging to the class of atypical antipsychotic drugs. It has been 
proposed  that  aripiprazole  antipsychotic  action  could  be  mediated  through  a  combination  of  partial 
agonist at dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT1A receptors and antagonism at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. 
The non-clinical characterization of aripiprazole as a dopamine D2 receptor partial agonist at pituitary 
lactotrophs predicts a low potential to induce hyperprolactinemia in humans but it may be dose related. 
Studies  on  the  sedative  liability  of  aripiprazole  suggest  a  reduced  sedative  potential  compared  to 
typical antipsychotics. The safety pharmacology profile of aripiprazole reveals that this agent exhibits 
a reduced impact on cardiovascular, renal and gastrointestinal systems. 
The absolute oral bioavailability of aripiprazole was 47% in mice, 16% at 10 mg/kg in rats, 6-12 % in 
dogs, 8% in monkeys, and 87% in humans. 
Studies  in  rats  suggest  that  there  is  a  potential  for  foetal  and  neonatal  exposure  to  aripiprazole  if 
administered to pregnant or lactating women. This information is included in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Aripiprazole  is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 isozymes. Aripiprazole was mainly 
eliminated via metabolic clearance and metabolites of aripiprazole were eliminated by both renal and 
biliary routes in monkeys and humans and predominantly by biliary route in rats. 
The  gallbladder  stone  formation  observed  in  monkeys  appears  to  be  species  specific.  The  risk  of 
gallstone  formation  in  patients  is  probably  very  low  since  sulfate  conjugated  metabolites  of 
aripiprazole do not reach sufficient biliary concentrations in humans and since no indication of such a 
risks occurred during the clinical trials. This is described in the SPC (section 5.3). 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  in  rat  and  monkeys  revealed  mainly  CNS-related  effects.  The  NOAEL  were 
mostly below the resulting human exposure at therapeutic dose (30 mg/day). 
The  genotoxicity  battery  was  positive  in  some  tests,  but  at  very  high  and  cytotoxic  concentrations. 
Overall, based on the weight of evidence from the whole battery of genotoxicity studies, aripiprazole 
is not considered to pose a genotoxic risk to humans at therapeutic doses and exposures. 
The  main finding in carcinogenicity was an increased incidence  of adrenocortical tumors in rats. As 
the clinical relevance of this finding for human is questionable, the applicant as a follow-up measure 
will perform post-marketing studies with measurements of ACTH and cortisol. 
27/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Developmental toxicity, including dose-dependent delayed foetal ossification and possible teratogenic 
effects, were  observed in rats at doses resulting in subtherapeutic  exposures (based  on AUC) and in 
rabbits at higher exposure. This is mentioned in the SPC section 5.3. 
Specific  dependence  studies  performed  in  rats  and  monkeys  suggest  that  aripiprazole  does  not  have 
significant abuse liability. 
Efficacy 
The  results  of  the  3  short-term  pivotal  trials  are  consistent  in  showing  a  significant  effect  of 
aripiprazole as compared to placebo in the primary end-points, namely PANSS total score, the PANSS 
positive subscore scale and the CGI severity score. The effects found in the secondary end-points as 
well  as  in  responders’  analysis  back  the  primary  efficacy  analysis.  Furthermore  the  effect  size  of 
aripiprazole is numerical similar to the active comparators used: haloperidol 10 mg and risperidone 6 
mg. 
Important, however, is the fact that the aripiprazole doses used in these trials – 10, 15, 20 and 30 mg 
are not well discriminated by effect size? The CPMP acknowledge that the trials were not powered to 
allow  inter-dose  comparisons  but  numerical  effects  sizes  produced  by  these  different  doses  are  not 
increasing  as  one  would  expect  in  a  dose  dependent  process.  This  fact  induces  concern  because  the 
dose-finding studies did not produce clear-cut results either. 
The  CPMP  considers  that  aripiprazole  (10  to  30  mg)  was  proven  efficacious  in  the  short-term 
treatment  of  acute relapses in schizophrenia  patients.  However the optimal dose was  not  established 
and the external validity of the results is probably low. 
The  data  on  long-term  efficacy  used  aripiprazole  in  a  targeted  dose  of  30  mg/d  and  compared  it  to 
haloperidol 10 mg. The trial was designed as a superiority trial on rate of maintenance of response at 
52 weeks. Although there was no statistical difference between arms, the data available supports that 
aripiprazole is efficacious for maintenance therapy.   
The issue of finding the best-recommended dose was not addressed properly and the long-term trials 
are illustrative as one uses 30 mg and the other 15 mg. 
The  recommended  daily  dose  of  Abilify  is  15 mg  although  individual  patients  may  benefit  from  a 
higher dose. The maximum daily dose should not exceed 30 mg. 
Safety 
As  CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6  are  the  primary  isozymes  responsible  for  aripiprazole  metabolism,  the 
clinical  dose  of  aripiprazole  should  be  adapted  when  co-administered  with  potent  inducers  or 
inhibitors of these enzymes. This is reflected in the SPC (4.5). 
Aripiprazole  was  in  general  safe  and  well  tolerated.  No  deleterious  effect  on  the  blood  series  is 
apparent;  there  is  no  signal  that  QTc  prolongation  that  might  be  a  clinical  relevant  problem,  the 
incidence  of  EPS  is  globally  low  in  the  same  range  as  olanzapine  and  much  lower  than  haloperidol 
even  lower  than  risperidone.  The  mean  prolactin  levels  are  decreased  what  is  the  opposite  to  the 
common  effect  of  antipsychotics  that  usually  increase  prolactin.  Furthermore  aripiprazole  do  not 
induce clinically meaningful weight increase. 
Orthostatic  hypotension  was  more  frequent  with  aripiprazole  than  with  haloperidol  and  similar  to 
risperidone.  Furthermore  nausea  and  vomiting  in  long-term  were  worse  for  aripiprazole  than  for 
haloperidol  but  in  short-term  aripiprazole  showed  an  advantage  over  the  comparators.  Overall  the 
differences although present are not extremely large. These findings are reported in the SPC. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Efficacy. Short-term efficacy for the treatment  of schizophrenia acute relapses is established  and the 
recommended  dose  (dose  findings  studies  failed  to  discriminate  among  15,  20  and  30  mg)  for 
maintenance  therapy  is  not  firmly  established  because  the  superiority  design  trial  versus  haloperidol 
failed to show superiority. However, the data available backed by the relapse prevention study, despite 
being done in stable patients and therefore omitting the acute phase and re-randomizations, supports 
that aripiprazole is efficacious for maintenance therapy. Again there is no good basis to opt between 
15 mg and 30 mg.  
28/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
Safety. The clinical safety profile of aripiprazole do not raises major concerns and has characteristics 
that compare it to other antipsychotics favourably. The applicant committed in a letter of undertaking 
to follow up in the clinic, potential hormonal changes of the adrenal gland function within an agreed 
timeframe. 
There  is  no  experience  in  children  or  adolescents  <  18  years  old,  as  no  studies  on  the  safety  and 
efficacy of aripiprazole have been conducted in this population. This is reflected in the SPC (section 
4.2) 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Abilify  in  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
29/29                                                                           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
