1 October 2014 
EMA/558302/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Abilify 
(aripiprazole) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000471/P46-061 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
ASSESSMENT 
Introduction 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH: 
results  of  the  final  clinical  study  report  (CSR)  for  Study  Number  31-09-266:  A  long-term, 
multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  Study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy,  safety, 
and tolerability of Aripiprazole (OPC-14597) as Maintenance Treatment in Adolescent Patients with 
Schizophrenia 
This  report  discusses  the  results  of  Trial  31-09-266  that  addresses  the  requirements  of  the 
Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  (EMEA-000235-PIP02-10-M02)  for  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in 
patients 13 to 17 years of age in order to demonstrate the maintenance of effects. 
The  trial  was  conducted  in  compliance  with  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP),  the  sponsor’s  standard 
operating procedures (SOPs), and ethical principles for the protection of human research subjects 
that have their origins in the Declaration of Helsinki. 
Product Development Rationale 
Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic that is approved via centralised procedure in the European 
Union (EU) as different pharmaceutical forms in multiple indications (Abilify - EMEA/H/C/000471).  
In the EU aripiprazole is approved for: 
 
 
 
 
Treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  adults  and  adolescents  (ages  15  years  and  older)  (oral 
formulations) 
Treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  manic  episodes  in  bipolar  I  disorder  in  adults  (oral 
formulations) 
Treatment  up  to  12  weeks  of  moderate  to  severe  manic  episodes  in  bipolar  I  disorder  in 
adolescents aged 13 years and older (oral formulations) 
Prevention of a new manic episode in adults who experienced predominantly manic episodes 
and whose manic episodes responded to aripiprazole treatment (oral formulations) 
  Rapid  control  of  agitation  and  disturbed  behaviours  in  patients  with  schizophrenia  or  in 
patients  with  manic  episodes  in  bipolar  I  disorder,  when  oral  therapy  is  not  appropriate 
(immediate-release IM formulation) 
  Maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  adult  patients  stabilised  with  oral  aripiprazole 
(prolonged-release suspension for injection formulation, Abilify Maintena, EMEA/H/C/002755) 
In the United States (US) aripiprazole is approved for: 
 
 
Treatment of schizophrenia in adults (oral formulations) 
Treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents (ages 13 − 17 years) (oral formulations) 
  Acute  treatment  of  manic  or  mixed  episodes  associated  with  bipolar  I  disorder  as 
monotherapy  and  as  an  adjunct  to  lithium  or  valproate  in  adults  and  paediatric  patients 
(ages 10 − 17 years) (oral formulations) 
  Maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to either 
lithium or valproate in adults (oral formulations) 
  Adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults (oral formulations) 
 
Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder in paediatric patients (ages 6 − 17 
years) (oral formulations) 
  Acute  treatment  of  agitation  associated  with  schizophrenia  or  bipolar  I  disorder  in  adults 
(immediate-release IM formulation) 
  Maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  adult  patients  stabilised  with  oral  aripiprazole 
(prolonged-release suspension for injection formulation) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aripiprazole is also approved in a variety of indications in other countries, including the treatment 
of Tourette’s disorder in the Republic of Korea (ages 6 − 18 years). 
Methodology 
Trial 31-09-266 was a phase 3 long-term multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled 
study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy,  safety  and  tolerability  of  aripiprazole  as  maintenance  treatment  in 
adolescent  patients  aged  13  to  17  years  with  schizophrenia.  Subjects  were  male  or  female 
adolescents aged 13 to 17 years, inclusive, at the time of informed consent/assent, with a current 
diagnosis  or  symptoms  of  schizophrenia  for  at  least  6  months  according  to  Diagnostic  and 
Statistical Manual of Mental disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) criteria. Subjects 
were  required  to  be  in  good  physical  health  as  determined  by  medical  history,  clinical  laboratory 
tests, electrocardiogram (ECG), and physical examinations.  
In  the  EU,  aripiprazole  is  approved  for  subjects  aged  15  to  17  years  old,  and  in  the  US,  it  is 
approved for subjects aged 13 to 17 years old. The enrolment in the trial was monitored during the 
conduct of the trial to ensure that only subjects aged 13 to 14 years old were enrolled. 
Trial 31-09-266 consisted of a screening period, three treatment phases (conversion, stabilisation, 
and double-blind maintenance), and a follow-up period: 
  Screening  phase  of  3  to  42  days,  to  assess  eligibility  and  allow  washout  of  prohibited 
medications, followed by 
  4  to  6  weeks  conversion  phase,  during  which  subjects  were  cross-titrated  from  other 
antipsychotic(s) to oral aripiprazole, followed by 
  7  weeks  to  21  weeks  stabilisation  phase  to  stabilise  subjects  on  an  aripiprazole  dose, 
within the approved dose range, followed by 
  52-week double blind, placebo-controlled maintenance phase, followed by 
  Open-label safety trial of aripiprazole (Protocol 31-09-267) 
Figure: Trial Design Scheme 
Subjects could either have been outpatients or inpatients between screening and through the time 
they reached stabilisation, however subjects had to have been outpatients at the beginning of the 
double-blind maintenance phase. 
During the 4 to 6 weeks conversion phase, subjects were cross-titrated from other antipsychotic(s) 
to oral aripiprazole monotherapy. Any subject who met the eligibility criteria and was receiving oral 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aripiprazole monotherapy at a minimum dose of 10 to 30 mg/day at the time of screening entered 
directly  into  the  stabilization  phase.  Subjects  who  met  the  eligibility  criteria  and  were  receiving 
lower  doses  of  aripiprazole  monotherapy  between  ≥  5  mg/day  and  <  10  mg/day  at  the  time  of 
screening, bypassed the conversion phase and continued on the same dose at the beginning of the 
stabilisation  phase,  but  had  to  achieve  a  minimum  target  dose  of  10  mg/day  by  Day  6  of  the 
stabilisation phase.  
Subjects  who  were  currently  receiving  aripiprazole  monotherapy  at  a  dose  of  <  5  mg/day  were 
required  to  enter  the  conversion  phase.  The  aim  of  the  conversion  phase  was  to  achieve 
aripiprazole  oral  monotherapy  at  a  minimum  target  dose  of  10  mg/day  at  Week  4,  and  no  later 
than  Week  6,  before  entering  the  stabilisation  phase.  However,  higher  starting  doses  were 
acceptable (up to 30 mg/day), based on investigator judgment and subject’s clinical need.  
During the stabilisation phase, subjects were stabilised on aripiprazole within the dose range of 10 
mg/day to 30 mg/day over a minimum of 7 weeks and a maximum of 21 weeks. Based on clinical 
judgment  with  regard  to  tolerability  issues,  the  investigator  was  allowed  to  reduce  the  subject’s 
aripiprazole  dose,  but  to  no  less  than  10  mg/day.  If  a  dose  reduction  to  5  mg/day  was  required 
after Day 6 in the stabilisation phase, the subject was discontinued from the trial. Eligible subjects 
were allowed to bypass the conversion phase and enter the stabilisation phase directly if:  
1)  the subject recently had been without antipsychotic treatment (for no more than 3 weeks) 
prior  to  screening  and  the  subject  had  a  history  of  relapse  and/or  exacerbation  of 
symptoms when not receiving antipsychotic treatment, or  
2) 
if the subject was being treated with oral aripiprazole monotherapy between 10 mg/day to 
30 mg/day or  
3) 
if the subject was treated with a lower dose of branded aripiprazole between  ≥ 5 mg/day 
and < 10 mg/day, but achieved a minimum target dose of 10 mg/day by  
Day 6 of the 
stabilisation phase. 
Subjects were assessed for stability beginning at Week 6 of the stabilisation phase. Stability in the 
stabilisation phase was achieved after 2 consecutive weekly assessments, starting no sooner than 
Week 6 at which the subject met predefined stability criteria. Consequently, at any time between 
Weeks  7  and  21,  subjects  meeting  stability  criteria  at  2  consecutive  weekly  assessments  were 
randomised  and  entered  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase.  In  order  to  enter  the  double-blind 
maintenance  phase,  all  subjects  must  have  been  on  a  minimum  daily  dose  of  10  mg  aripiprazole 
when the stability criteria were met.  
Stability  was  defined  as  fulfilment  of  all  of  the  following  criteria  at  2  consecutive  weekly 
assessments starting at Week 6: 
1)  Outpatient status AND 
2)  (PANSS) Total Score ≤ 80 AND 
3)  Lack of specific psychotic symptoms on the PANSS as measured by a score of ≤ 4 on each 
of the following items (possible scores of 1 to 7 for each item): 
  Conceptual disorganization 
  Suspiciousness 
  Hallucinatory behaviour 
  Unusual thought content AND 
4)  A CGI-S (Clinical Global Impression of Severity) score ≤ 4 (moderately ill) AND 
5)  No  current  suicidal  behaviour  as  assessed  by  the  Columbia  Suicide  Severity  Rating  Scale 
(C-SSRS) (and an answer of “no” to Questions 4 and 5 on the suicidal ideation section of 
the C-SSRS) AND 
6)  No  evidence  of  aggressive  or  violent  behaviour  that  resulted  in  clinically,  significant  self-
injury,  injury  to  another  person,  or  property  damage,  or  inability  to  attend  school  due  to 
this behaviour. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  period  of  up  to  21  weeks  was  permitted  to  maximise  the  possibility  of  achieving  the  required 
duration of symptom stability. Assessments for stability continued until the subject could not meet 
the stability criteria at 2 consecutive weekly visits on or before Week 21. Any subject who had not 
met the stability criteria at Week 20 was withdrawn from the trial. 
From the stabilisation phase, subjects were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive either aripiprazole 
10  mg/day  to  30  mg/day  or  placebo  in  a  double-blind  fashion,  with  double-blind  treatment 
continuing  for  up  to  52  week  after  randomisation.  During  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase, 
outpatient subjects were evaluated weekly for the first 4 weeks and then every 2 weeks. Subjects 
reported  condition  was  assessed  via  telephone  in  the  weeks  that  fell  between  trial  centre  visits, 
with the option of bringing the subject back to the trial centre, if there were any concerns.  
At all visits, subjects were evaluated for signs of exacerbation of psychotic symptoms/ impending 
relapse  and  subjects  were  withdrawn  from  the  trial  if  any  such  signs  were  observed.  Any  subject 
withdrawn  for  “lack  of  efficacy”  or  “worsening  of  illness”  during  the  double-blind  maintenance 
phase  had  to  meet  at  least  1  of  the  criteria  for  exacerbation  of  psychotic  symptoms/impending 
relapse as defined in the trial protocol.    
Subjects who completed the double-blind maintenance phase and those who discontinued from the 
trial  due  to  impending  relapse  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase,  or  were  withdrawn  by  the 
investigator  for  “lack  of  efficacy”  or  “worsening  of  illness”  during  the  double-blind  maintenance 
phase,  and  who  met  at  least  1  of  the  protocol  criteria  for  exacerbation  of  psychotic 
symptoms/impending relapse could enter an open-label safety trial of aripiprazole (Protocol 31-09-
267).  Subjects  withdrawn  from  conversion  or  stabilisation  phases  prior  to  termination  of  the  trial 
were not eligible for participation in this open-label trial. Subject who did not enter the open-label 
trial were followed up for safety/tolerability at visits 2 weeks (± 3 days) and 4 weeks (± 3 days) 
after  the  last  trial  visit.  Follow-up  treatment  in  the  form  of  non-trial  medication  supplement  was 
offered for up to 12 weeks. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in the trial was the time from randomisation to exacerbation of 
psychotic symptoms/impending relapse in the double-blind maintenance phase. Impending relapse 
was defined as meeting any of the following 5 criteria: 
1)  A Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) score of ≥ 5 (minimally worse) AND 
 
an  increase  in  any  of  the  following  individual  Positive  and  Negative  Syndrome  Scale 
(PANSS)  items  (conceptual  disorganization,  hallucinatory  behaviour,  suspiciousness, 
unusual  thought  content)  to  a  score  >  4  with  an  absolute  increase  of  ≥  2  on  that 
specific item since randomization OR 
 
an increase in any of the following individual PANSS items (conceptual disorganization, 
hallucinatory  behaviour,  suspiciousness,  unusual  thought  content)  to  a  score  >  4  and 
an  absolute  increase  of  ≥  4  on  the  combined  4  PANSS  items  (conceptual 
disorganization,  hallucinatory  behaviour,  suspiciousness,  unusual  thought  content) 
since randomization OR 
2)  A CGI-I score of 6 or 7 (much or very much worse) OR 
3)  Hospitalization due to worsening of illness (including partial hospitalization programs), but 
excluding hospitalization for psychosocial reasons OR 
4)  Any  suicidal  behaviour  or  answers  of  “yes”  to  Questions  4  or  5  on  the  suicidal  ideation 
section of the C-SSRS OR 
5)  Violent  or  aggressive  behaviour  resulting  in  clinically  significant  self-injury,  injury  to 
another person, or property damage or inability to attend school due to this behaviour. 
In the double-blind maintenance phase the following secondary efficacy variable were compared 
between the aripiprazole treatment group and the placebo group at endpoint: 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage  of  subjects  meeting  exacerbation  of  psychotic  symptoms/impending  relapse 
criteria 
Percentage  of  responders  in  each  treatment  group  (i.e.,  response  defined  as  meeting 
stability criteria) 
Percentage of subjects achieving remission, where remission is defined as a score of  ≤ 3 
on  each  of  the  following  specific  PANSS  items,  which  was  maintained  for  a  period  of  6 
months:  delusions  (P1),  unusual  thought  content  (G9),  hallucinatory  behaviour  (P3), 
conceptual  disorganization  (P2),  mannerisms/posturing  (G5),  blunted  affect  (N1),  social 
withdrawal (N4), and lack of spontaneity (N6) 
 
Time to discontinuation for all causes 
Other Endpoints are 
Efficacy: 
  Mean change from baseline to endpoint in PANSS Total Score 
  Mean change from baseline to endpoint in CGI-S score 
  Mean CGI-I score at endpoint 
  Mean change from baseline to endpoint in PANSS positive and negative subscales 
  Mean change from baseline to endpoint in CGAS 
Safety: 
 
 
 
The  frequency  and  severity  of  AEs,  seriousness  of  AEs  (clinical  and  laboratory),  and 
discontinuation from trial due to AEs 
The frequency of symptom items for the NY-AACENT 
The frequency of side effects for the UKU Side Effects Rating Scale 
  Analysis of potential suicide events recorded on the C-SSRS 
  Mean change from baseline and incidence of clinically significant changes from baseline for 
clinical  laboratory  tests  and  urinalysis  results  (including  fasting  blood  lipids  and  glucose, 
serum prolactin, insulin, haemoglobin A1c, and creatinine phosphokinase [CPK]), vital signs 
and  ECG  parameters.  A  central  ECG  service  was  utilized  to  review  all  ECGs  in  order  to 
standardize interpretations for the safety analysis. 
  Review of physical examination findings 
  Baseline and post-baseline Tanner Staging 
  Mean change from baseline of z-scores for height and body weight, mean changes of BMI, 
and waist circumference 
  Mean change from baseline to endpoint on the AIMS, SAS, and BARS 
Patient Population 
A  total  of  201  subjects  entered  the  trial,  with  146  subjects  randomised  in  the  double-blind 
maintenance phase (98 subjects to aripiprazole, 48 subjects to placebo). Of the 201 subjects who 
entered the trial, 56 (27.9%) were between 13 and 14 years old and 145 (72.1%) were at least 15 
years  old.    Of  the  146  subjects  randomised  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase,  21  subjects 
completed the trial (15 aripiprazole, 6 placebo).  
Of the 146 subjects randomised in the double-blind maintenance phase, 33 (22.6%) were between 
the  age  of  13  and  14  years  and  113  (77.4%)  were  at  least  15  years  old.  There  were  a  larger 
number  of  male  subjects  than  female  subjects  enrolled  in  the  trial:  133  male  subjects  (66%) 
compared  to  68  female  subjects.  Female  subjects  and  subjects  aged  13  to  15  years  were 
considered  to  be  adequately  represented  in  the  subject  population.  In  the  double-blind 
maintenance phase, there were  98 subjects (62 males (63%) and 36 females) in the aripiprazole 
group  and  48  subjects  (34  males  (71%)  and  14  females)  in  the  placebo  group.  The  majority  of 
subjects were white or Asian and non-Hispanic or Latino.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  main  reason  for  subject  discontinuation  from  the  trial  was  the  sponsor  terminating  the  trial 
(180  subjects  [89.6%]  total),  which  occurred  after  the  37th  event  of  exacerbation  of  psychotic 
symptoms/impending relapse occurred as it is defined in the clinical study protocol. Subjects on the 
study at the time of study termination were offered to roll over to an open label study for up to one 
year.  All  subjects  were  analysed  for  safety  and  all  subjects  in  the  stabilization  and  double-blind 
maintenance phases were analysed for efficacy. 
In general, baseline disease severity was comparable between treatment groups. The mean age of 
first  diagnosis  of  schizophrenia  for  subjects  was  13  years.  There  was  a  decrease  in  PANSS  total 
score  between  the  conversion  phase  n  =  185  subjects  (mean  86.9)  and  the  double-blind 
maintenance phase where n = 146 subjects (mean 65.5 in aripiprazole group and 62.9 in placebo 
group).  There  was  a  decrease  in  mean  CGI-S  scores  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase  for 
both  treatment  groups  (3.2  in  aripiprazole  group  and  3.0  in  placebo  group)  relative  to  the  larger 
group treated in the conversion phase. The mean Children’s Global Assessment Scale (CGAS) score 
increased  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase  in  both  treatment  groups  (60.9  in  aripiprazole 
group and 66.1 in placebo group). 
Results 
Primary endpoint 
Aripiprazole  was  superior  to  placebo  as  measured  by  time  to  exacerbation  of  psychotic 
symptoms/impending  relapse,  as  derived  from  the  Cox  Proportional  Hazard  model  (p  =  0.0161). 
There was a statistically significant delay in time to exacerbation of psychotic symptoms/impending 
relapse for aripiprazole-treated subjects compared to placebo-treated subjects. The overall relapse 
rate was lower in the aripiprazole-treated subjects (19.39%) compared to placebo-treated subjects 
(37.50%). Sensitivity analyses for time to exacerbation of psychotic symptoms/impending relapse 
for  multiple  imputation  approach  confirmed  the  primary  analysis  results  (all  p-values  under 
different situations less than 0.021). The sensitivity analysis for time to exacerbation of psychotic 
symptoms/impending relapse for discontinuations due to reasons other than sponsor discontinued 
the trial also supported the primary analysis (p = 0.0076). 
Secondary endpoints 
A  greater  proportion  of  subjects  treated  with  placebo  met  at  least  one  of  the  exacerbation  of 
psychotic  symptoms/impending  relapse  criteria  compared  to  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  (p  = 
0.0181).  All  psychotic  symptoms/impending  relapse  criteria  were  met  by  a  higher  incidence  of 
placebo-treated  subjects  compared  to  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  with  the  exception  of  suicidal 
behaviour (0 of 48 subjects in the placebo group vs. 1 of 98 subjects in the aripiprazole group). 
The  difference  in  the  percentage  of  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  who  were  responders  at  the  last 
visit compared to placebo-treated subjects was not statistically significant (p = 0.0962). At the last 
visit,  76  of  98  (77.6%)  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  were  responders  compared  to  31  of  48 
(64.6%) of placebo-treated subjects. 
A  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  time  to  discontinuation  prior  to  Day  378,  for  reasons 
other  than  sponsor  terminated  the  trial,  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase,  was  seen  in  the 
placebo  subjects  compared  to  aripiprazole  subjects  (p  =  0.0076).  The  discontinuation  rate  for 
placebo-treated subjects was 47.92% compared to 25.51% for aripiprazole-treated subjects. 
Other efficacy endpoints 
In  general,  symptom  stability  was  maintained  in  the  aripiprazole  group,  as  measured  by  lack  of 
change in the PANSS total, positive, negative, CGI-I and CGI-S scores, and worsened in placebo. 
However,  the  differences  in  the  adjusted  mean  changes  from  baseline,  based  on  the  last 
observation  carried  forward  (LOCF)  dataset,  between  aripiprazole-  and  placebo-treated  subjects 
were  not  statistically  significant.  There  was  no  notable  change  from  baseline  in  the  PANSS  Total 
Score,  based  on  the  LOCF  dataset,  for  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  during  the  double-blind 
maintenance.  In  contrast,  the  PANSS  Total  Score,  based  on  the  LOCF  dataset,  increased 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(worsened)  from  baseline  over  the  course  of  the  double-blind  maintenance  for  placebo-treated 
subjects.  There  was  no  notable  change  from  baseline  in  the  PANSS  Positive  Subscale  Score  or 
Negative Subscale Score by week, based on the LOCF or observed cases (OC) datasets, for either 
treatment group. However, differences were seen in the adjusted mean changes.  
There  was  no  notable  change  from  baseline  in  the  CGI-S  Score  based  on  the  LOCF  dataset  for 
aripiprazole-treated subjects during the double-blind maintenance phase and a very slight increase 
for  placebo-treated  subjects.  There  was  a  statistically  significant  treatment  difference  seen  in  the 
mean  CGI-I  score,  based  on  the  LOCF  dataset,  for  aripiprazole-  vs  placebo-treated  subjects  from 
Weeks  10  to  30  (p  ≤  0.0037).  Thus,  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  fared  slightly  better,  based  on 
CGI-I score, than placebo-treated subjects. There was no mean change from baseline in the CGAS 
Score  by  week,  based  on  the  LOCF  or  OC  datasets,  for  either  treatment  group.  However, 
differences were seen in the adjusted mean changes. 
Safety 
Rates of AEs, SAEs, and Discontinuation of Therapy 
Overall, during the stabilisation phase, the mean average daily dose (SD) was 18.4 mg (6.1) in the 
aripiprazole group and 17.1 mg (5.9) in the placebo group. In the double-blind maintenance phase, 
the mean average daily dose (SD) was 19.2 mg (6.7) in the aripiprazole group and 17.7 mg (6.6) 
in the placebo group.  
Overall, in the double-blind maintenance phase, the mean number of days of aripiprazole exposure 
was  184.6  days  in  the  aripiprazole  group  and  158.1  days  in  the  placebo  group,  however  it  is 
important to mention that the study was designed to be early terminated after the 37th impending 
relapse  event.  The  minimum  number  of  days  of  aripiprazole  exposure  in  the  double-blind 
maintenance phase was 6 days and maximum was 371 days.  
In  the  stabilization  phase,  a  total  of  183  (100.0%)  subjects  were  treated  with  aripiprazole  oral 
tablets.  A  total  of  109  (59.6%)  subjects  reported  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs). 
Four  (2.2%)  subjects  reported  serious  TEAEs  and  4  (2.2%)  subjects  reported  TEAEs  that  were 
considered severe in severity. Seven subjects (3.8%) discontinued trial medication due to AEs.  
A  total  of  146  subjects  were  randomised  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase  (98  aripiprazole, 
48 placebo). A total of 140 TEAEs were reported by 64 (65.3%) subjects in the aripiprazole group 
and 79 TEAEs reported by 33 (68.8%) subjects in the placebo group. The most frequently reported 
TEAE’s were: 
Table 2.5.5.1-1 
Most frequent TEAEs 
TEAE 
Schizophrenia 
Insomnia 
Psychotic disorder 
Weight increased 
Nasopharyngitis 
Aripiprazole 
subject(s) 
10 
5 
9 
8 
7 
% 
10.2 
5.1 
9.2 
8.2 
7.1 
Most TEAEs were mild or moderate in severity. 
Placebo 
subject(s) 
13 
9 
5 
5 
1 
% 
27.1 
18.8 
10.4 
10.5 
2.1 
A  total  of  45  (45.9%)  TEAEs  considered  by  the  investigator  as  potentially  causally  related  to 
investigational medicinal product (IMP) were reported in the aripiprazole group compared with 29 
(60.4%) in the placebo group. The most frequently reported TEAEs considered potentially casually 
related  to  IMP  in  either  group  were  weight  increased,  insomnia,  schizophrenia,  and  psychotic 
disorder. A total of 8 (8.2%) subjects in the aripiprazole group reported potentially causally related 
to IMP events (non-severe) of weight increased vs. 5 (10.4%) subjects in the placebo group. 
The aripiprazole group reported fewer serious TEAEs (3 subjects [3.1%]) compared to the placebo 
group (6 subjects [12.5%]). The aripiprazole group also reported fewer severe TEAEs (2 subjects 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[2.0%])  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (5  subjects  [10.4%]).  The  placebo  group  had  5  (10.4%) 
subjects  with  serious  TEAEs  of  schizophrenia  (3  moderate  severity,  2  severe  severity)    and  they 
represented  impending  relapse  events  compared  to  the  aripiprazole  group,  who  had  1  (1.0%) 
subject with a serious (mild severity) TEAE of schizophrenia. The aripiprazole group had 2 (2.0%) 
subjects  with  serious  TEAEs  of  psychotic  disorder  (moderate  severity)  compared  to  the  placebo 
group who had 1 (2.1%) subject with a serious TEAE of psychotic disorder (moderate severity).  
No  deaths  or  pregnancies  were  reported  during  the  trial.  The  aripiprazole  group  had  20  (20.4%) 
subjects  with  TEAEs  that  led  to  the  discontinuation  of  trial  medication  in  the  double-blind 
maintenance  phase  and  the  placebo  group  had  19  (39.6%)  subjects.  Schizophrenia  was  most 
frequently  reported  TEAE  that  led  to  discontinuation  of  trial  medication  (10  (10.2%)  subjects  in 
aripiprazole  group  and  13  (27.1%)  subjects  in  placebo  group).    Patients  with  impending  relapse 
events were required to discontinue the study and the relapses were captured as schizophrenia or 
psychotic disorder.  
No  adverse  events  of  special  interest  (extrapyramidal  symptoms  (EPS),  neuroleptic  malignant 
syndrome  (NMS),  seizures,  orthostasis,  suicide,  sedation/somnolence,  glucose  levels,  lipid 
parameters, weight gain, prolactin levels, and hepatic functioning) occurred more frequently in the 
double-blind  maintenance  phase  in  the  aripiprazole  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  The 
most common adverse events of special interest reported was akathisia, which was reported by 3 
subjects (6.3%) in the placebo group and 3 subjects (3.1%) in the aripiprazole group. No subjects 
experienced AEs relating to NMS, seizures, orthostasis, glucose levels, or prolactin. 
No  notable  differences  were  seen  between  aripiprazole  and  placebo  treatments  in  New  York 
Assessment  for  Adverse  Cognitive  Effects  of  Neuropsychiatric  Treatment  (NY  AACENT)  or  Udvalg 
for Kliniske Undersøgelser (UKU) scales, the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) and 
there was no evidence of delay in sexual maturation associated with aripiprazole treatment, based 
on Tanner staging. 
There  was  no  mean  change  from  baseline  in  EPS-rating  scales  (Simpson-Angus  Scale  (SAS), 
Abnormal  Involuntary  Movement  Scale  (AIMS)  and  the  (Barnes  Akathisia  Rating  Scale  (BARS)  in 
the double-blind maintenance phase. The only statistical difference was seen in the mean change 
from baseline in the AIMS, based on the OC dataset, at Week 16 (p = 0.0365) in the aripiprazole 
treatment group. 
In  the  double-blind  maintenance,  there  was  no  statistical  difference  between  treatment  groups  in 
the  mean  change  from  baseline  in  Paediatric  Quality  of  Life  Enjoyment  and  Satisfaction 
Questionnaire  (P-QLES-Q)  total  score  by  week.  Results  from  the  mean  by  week  in  the  P-QLES-Q 
overall  score  for  the  LOCF  dataset  showed  subjects  in  the  aripiprazole  groups  stayed  about  the 
same and placebo decreased (worsened). Results from the mean by week in the P-QLES-Q overall 
score for the OC dataset showed an increase (improvement) by Week 24 in the aripiprazole group 
and  then  a  decrease  by  Week  52  to  the  baseline  mean.  The  placebo  group  showed  an  increase 
from baseline in mean at Week 24 and 52 and then a decrease by last visit. 
Laboratory Assessments, Vital Signs, ECG 
No  clinically  meaningful  changes  from  baseline  were  observed  in  serum  chemistry,  haematology, 
urinalysis  or  other  laboratory  test  parameters  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase,  including 
serum  prolactin  concentrations.  The  frequencies  of  potentially  clinically  relevant  laboratory  values 
were  comparable  for  aripiprazole  and  placebo  treatment  with  the  exception  of  prolactin  (58 
[59.2%] subjects in the aripiprazole group and 13 [27.1%] subjects in the placebo group). Despite 
the laboratory values reported, these subjects remained asymptomatic. There were very few TEAEs 
reported  that  were  related  to  clinical  laboratory  test  abnormalities  in  either  treatment  group.  The 
aripiprazole group reported clinical laboratory test TEAEs of leukopenia and increased level of blood 
insulin in 2 (2.0%) subjects each.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  clinically  meaningful  changes  from  baseline  were  observed  in  vital  sign  parameters  or  ECG 
parameters  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase.  The  incidence  of  potentially  clinically  relevant 
ECG  measurements  was  similar  for  the  aripiprazole  and  placebo  treatment  groups.  ECG-related 
TEAEs  were  reported  more  frequently  in  the  aripiprazole  group  than  in  the  placebo  group.  One 
(2.1%)  subject  in  the  placebo  group  reported  a  TEAE  of  tachycardia.  In  the  aripiprazole  group  2 
(2.0%)  subjects  reported  a  TEAE  of  tachycardia  and  2  (2.0%)  subjects  reported  a  TEAE  of 
arrhythmia. 
Laboratory Measurements of Special Interest 
Overall  it  is  concluded  that  no  clinically  meaningful  changes  from  baseline  were  observed  in  any 
laboratory  measurements  of  special  interest  such  as  fasting  blood  levels  for  triglycerides,  high-
density  lipoprotein  (cholesterol)  (HDL-C),  serum  glucose  level  and  systolic  and  diastolic  blood 
pressure.  
A  total  of  24  (16.4%)  subjects  reported  a  potentially  clinically  relevant  weight  gain  ≥7  %  during 
the  double-blind  maintenance  phase:  20  (20.4%)  in  the  aripiprazole  group  and  4  (8.3%)  in  the 
placebo  group.  TEAEs  related  to  weight  increased  were  reported  by  8  (8.2%)  subjects  in  the 
aripiprazole group and 5 (10.4%) subjects in the placebo group. A total of 15 (10.3%) subjects (11 
(11.2%) aripiprazole group and 4 (8.3%) placebo) reported a potentially clinically relevant increase 
≥15 mmHg in standing diastolic blood pressure. 
BENEFITS AND RISK CONCLUSIONS 
The results of Trial 31-09-266 confirm that aripiprazole is efficacious in the maintenance treatment 
in adolescent patients aged 13 to 17 years with schizophrenia.  
For  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  aripiprazole  was  superior  to  placebo  as  measured  by  time  to 
exacerbation  of  psychotic  symptoms/impending  relapse  (p  =  0.0161).  Secondary  efficacy 
endpoints  also  support  the  efficacy  of  aripiprazole  compared  to  placebo.  There  was  a  statistically 
significant  delay  in  time  to  exacerbation  of  psychotic  symptoms  /  impending  relapse  for 
aripiprazole-treated  subjects.  The  overall  rate  of  exacerbation  of  psychotic  symptoms/impending 
relapse  was  lower  in  the  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  (19.39%)  compared  to  placebo-treated 
subjects (37.50%) and greater proportion of subjects treated with placebo met at least one of the 
exacerbation of psychotic symptoms / impending relapse criteria compared to aripiprazole-treated 
subjects (p = 0.0181). 
The  difference  in  the  percentage  of  aripiprazole-treated  subjects  who  were  responders  at  the  last 
visit  compared  to  placebo-treated  subjects  was  not  statistically  significant  (p  =  0.0962).  For 
evaluation  of  remission,  48  of  98  aripiprazole  subjects  and  19  of  48  placebo  subjects  met  the  6 
month  threshold  for  the  remission  analysis.  Of  those,  21  of  48  aripiprazole  subjects  and  8  of  19 
placebo subjects met the pre-set criteria for remission (p = 0.9025). 
A  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  time  to  discontinuation  prior  to  Day  378,  for  reasons 
other  than  sponsor  terminated  the  trial,  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase,  was  seen  in  the 
placebo subjects compared to aripiprazole subjects (p = 0.0076).  
In  general,  symptom  stability  was  maintained  in  the  aripiprazole  group,  as  measured  by  lack  of 
change in the PANSS total, positive, negative, CGI-I and CGI-S scores, and worsened in placebo. 
However, the differences in the adjusted mean changes from baseline, based on the LOCF dataset, 
between aripiprazole- and placebo-treated subjects were not statistically significant. There were no 
consistent statistical findings in the other efficacy analyses. 
The  aripiprazole  and  placebo  groups  reported  a  similar  percentage  of  TEAEs  in  the  double-blind 
maintenance.  The  most 
frequently 
reported  TEAEs 
in  either 
treatment  group  were 
schizophrenia/psychotic  disorder,  insomnia,  psychotic  disorder,  and  weight  increased.  The 
aripiprazole  group  reported  fewer  serious  TEAEs  than  the  placebo  group  in  the  double-blind 
maintenance.  No  adverse  events  of  special interest  occurred  with  more  frequency  in  aripiprazole-
treated subjects as compared to placebo in the double-blind maintenance. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  clinically  meaningful  changes  from  baseline  were  observed  in  vital  sign  parameters  or  ECG 
parameters, in serum chemistry, haematology, urinalysis or other laboratory test parameters in the 
double-blind maintenance phase, including serum prolactin concentrations.  
No possibly drug-induced liver events were reported. Weight and BMI changes were consistent with 
aripiprazole  paediatric  data  for  subjects  aged  13  to  17  years.  No  notable  differences  were  seen 
between aripiprazole and placebo treatments in NY-AACENT or UKU scales, and there was no delay 
in sexual maturation associated with aripiprazole treatment, based on Tanner staging. 
As  the  follow-up,  long-term,  open-label  safety  trial  of  aripiprazole  in  adolescent  patients  with 
schizophrenia (Protocol 31-09-267) is ongoing and delivering more safety data for this population 
at the present time the MAH is not proposing a change to the aripiprazole SmPC. 
Assessment 
MAH  has  presented  the  final  results  of  the  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled  study  to  evaluate  the  long-term  efficacy,  safety,  and  tolerability  of  aripiprazole  as 
maintenance treatment in adolescent patients aged 13 to 17 years with schizophrenia. This was a 
Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  (EMEA-000235-PIP02-10-M02)  for  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in 
patients 13 to 17 years of age in order to demonstrate the maintenance of effects. 
Analysis  of  data  do  not  raise  particular  concerns  in  efficacy  beyond  12  weeks  in  the  presented 
indication. The fact that the study was interrupted when most (ca. 90%) patients had not reached 
endpoint  preclude  the  chance  to  obtain  more  sound  data  regarding  efficacy  and  safety.  The 
stopping  rules  for  the  study  were  reached  very  early  (some  patients  remained  in  the  study  in 
maintenance  phase  for  only  6  days),  and  apparently  this  was  not  expected  nor  foreseen,  as  this 
low  threshold  for  study  discontinuation  (after  the  37th  patient  suffering  impending  relapse  event) 
was  not  challenged  by  at  the  time  of  advice.  Nevertheless  presented  efficacy  data  do  not 
jeopardise any of the EU approved indications. 
For safety, there were relevant adverse events occurring in paediatric population, both in frequency 
and in severity, as compared to the adult population, namely concerning weight gain but were not 
different from what has been seen in the pediatric population in other indications, and  are in line 
with the adverse event profile observed in the main studies which led to approval of the paediatric 
indications. 
The  drop  out  rate  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  and  /  or  adverse  events  was  lower  than  what  has  been 
described,  but  this  was  artificially kept  low  due  to  the  early  termination  of  the  study.  This  aspect 
will be better identified in the ongoing open label study. 
Adverse event values are within the range of both aripiprazole in other indications and age ranges 
and of other antipsychotics in schizophrenia.  
MAH  has  declined  to  advance  a  change  to  PI,  proposing  to  only  suggest  modifications  to  SmPC 
after the results from the open label extension become available. This proposal is acceptable, since 
relevant uncertainties remain unanswered.   
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
II. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND FURTHER ACTION IF REQUIRED 
This  long-term,  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  Study  was  to  evaluate 
the  efficacy,  safety,  and  tolerability  of  Aripiprazole  (OPC-14597)  as  Maintenance  Treatment  in 
Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia.  
The study involved a population (13 and 14 YO) not approved in Europe. Efficacy data analysis was 
restricted  to  the  primary  and  key  secondary  endpoints.  Early  termination  prevented  all  the  other 
endpoints  to  be  statistically  or  clinically  significant.  So  far  no  new  safety  issues  have  arisen  in 
comparison with the AE profile of EU approved population. 
As  a  PIP  request  to  ascertain  persistence  of  efficacy,  an  update  to  SPC  should  follow,  to  insert 
relevant  data  from  this  study  in  PI.    However,  since  the  double  blind  study  was  early  terminated 
and  relevant  and  robust  data  was  not  available,  MAH  does  not  propose  to  change    the  SPC  and 
proposes to wait for the analysis of the long-term open label extension. This proposal is endorsed, 
meaning that a follow up to this PAC is expected, to present long term safety and tolerability data 
to CHMP. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 
46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/558302/2014  
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
