London 21 March 2013 
EMA/484705/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Abilify 
(Aripiprazole) 
Procedure no. EMEA/H/C/000471/PSU 063 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the Marketing Authorisations  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Abilify, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows: 
• 
• 
In view of the incidence of hepatic injury and related adverse events, the PRAC recommended 
inclusion of hepatic failure as an adverse reaction. 
In some of the cases of serotonin syndrome that had diagnostic criteria (Sternbach and / or Hunter 
criteria), it is not possible to exclude a causal relationship with exposure to aripiprazole due to a 
positive temporality, positive dechallenge, biological plausibility and even a positive rechallenge. 
Acknowledging the possibility that other drugs may somehow have contributed to the emergence 
of adverse events, the PRAC considered relevant to include in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics, serotonin syndrome as an adverse reaction and to add information about the 
potential related interaction when adding drugs that may otherwise interfere with uptake and 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. 
• 
The PSUR described 3 cases with documented detection of aripiprazole in the breast milk. No 
adverse effects related to aripiprazole exposure through breast milk exposure were reported in any 
of the 3 cases. Information is also included regarding excretion of aripiprazole in human breast 
milk. Nevertheless, further assessment on the implications of presence of aripiprazole in breast 
milk is required, and therefore the Marketing Authorisation Holder is requested to present more 
data on the clinical implications of exposure to aripiprazole in newborns via the breast milk. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Abilify, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance aripiprazole is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms to the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/484705/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
 
 
