EMA/609071/2020 
EMEA/H/C/002755 
Abilify Maintena (aripiprazole) 
An overview of Abilify Maintena and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Abilify Maintena and what is it used for? 
Abilify Maintena is an antipsychotic medicine that contains the active substance aripiprazole. It is used 
for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults whose disease has already been stabilised 
with aripiprazole taken by mouth. 
Schizophrenia is a mental illness with a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and 
speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions 
(false beliefs).  
How is Abilify Maintena used? 
Abilify Maintena is available as a powder and solvent to be made into a prolonged-release suspension 
for injection. ‘Prolonged release’ means that the active substance is released slowly over a few weeks 
after being injected. The medicine is given once a month by slow injection into the buttock or deltoid 
(shoulder) muscle by a doctor or nurse. It must not be injected into a vein or under the skin. 
The recommended dose depends on whether the patient is taking other medicines that slow the 
breakdown of aripiprazole in the body and may be reduced if the patient experiences side effects. 
Treatment beyond 2 weeks with medicines that speed up the breakdown of aripiprazole should be 
avoided. The first treatment consists of either one injection followed by aripiprazole taken by mouth 
daily for 2 weeks or two injections and a single dose of aripiprazole by mouth on the same day. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Abilify Maintena work? 
The active substance in Abilify Maintena is aripiprazole. The exact way it works is not known but it 
attaches to receptors in the brain for two substances (neurotransmitters) called dopamine and 
serotonin, which are believed to play a role in schizophrenia. By attaching to these receptors, it is 
thought that aripiprazole helps normalise the activity of the brain, reducing psychotic symptoms and 
preventing them from returning.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Abilify Maintena have been shown in studies? 
Abilify Maintena was shown to be as effective as aripiprazole taken by mouth at preventing symptoms 
of schizophrenia from returning. In one main study involving adults whose disease had already been 
stabilised with aripiprazole taken by mouth, 22 out of the 265 patients (8.3%) treated with Abilify 
Maintena had symptoms coming back within 26 weeks, compared with 21 out of 266 (7.9%) patients 
treated with aripiprazole taken by mouth. 
What are the risks associated with Abilify Maintena? 
The most common side effects with Abilify Maintena (which may affect 5 or more people in 100) are 
increased weight, akathisia (a constant urge to move), insomnia (difficulty sleeping) and injection site 
pain. For the full list of all side effects reported with Abilify Maintena, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Abilify Maintena authorised in the EU? 
Abilify Maintena is as effective as aripiprazole taken by mouth and has a similar safety profile with the 
exception of injection pain, which was considered manageable. The monthly administration may help 
patients adhere to their treatment. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Abilify 
Maintena’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Abilify Maintena? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Abilify Maintena have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Abilify Maintena are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Abilify Maintena are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Abilify Maintena 
Abilify Maintena received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 November 2013.  
Further information on Abilify Maintena can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/abilify-maintena  
This overview was last updated in 11-2020. 
