Summary of risk management plan for Abiraterone KRKA 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Abiraterone  KRKA.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Abiraterone KRKA, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Abiraterone KRKA's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Abiraterone KRKA's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Abiraterone KRKA should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Abiraterone KRKA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Abiraterone 
KRKA's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Abiraterone KRKA is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for treatment of prostate cancer (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains abiraterone acetate as the active substance and it is given 
orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of Abiraterone KRKA’s benefits can be found in Abiraterone 
KRKA’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/abiraterone-acetate-
krka 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Abiraterone  KRKA,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Abiraterone KRKA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
 
The medicine’s legal  status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Abiraterone KRKA is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Abiraterone KRKA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Abiraterone KRKA. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term 
use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Hepatotoxicity 
Cardiac disorders 
Osteoporosis including osteoporosis-related fractures 
Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy 
Allergic alveolitis 
Increased exposure with food 
Important potential risks 
Anaemia 
Cataract 
Drug-drug interaction (CYP2D6) 
Missing information 
Use in patients with active or symptomatic viral hepatitis 
Use in patients with moderate/severe hepatic impairment 
and chronic liver disease 
Use in patients with severe renal impairment 
Use in patients with heart disease as evidenced by 
myocardial infarction, or arterial thrombotic events in the 
past 6 months, severe or unstable angina, or New York 
Heart Association Class III or IV heart disease or cardiac 
ejection fraction measurement of <50% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Abiraterone KRKA. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Abiraterone KRKA. 
 
 
 
 
 
