25 February 2021 
EMA/174959/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Abiraterone Accord  
International non-proprietary name: abiraterone acetate 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005408/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ..............................................................................7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 21 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 21 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 21 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 21 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 21 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 22 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 22 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects................................................................ 23 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 23 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 23 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 23 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 35 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 35 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 35 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 35 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 36 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 37 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 37 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 37 
3. Benefit-risk balance ............................................................................. 37 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................. 38 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 2/38 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADT  
AR  
AS 
AUC  
BSA  
CI  
CTC  
Cmax  
CPP 
CQA 
CRPC  
C.V.  
CYP  
DHEA  
DLT  
DSC 
Androgen deprivation therapy 
Androgen receptor 
active substance 
The area under the plasma concentration time curve/ total systemic exposure 
Body surface area 
Confidence interval 
Circulating tumour cell 
The maximum plasma concentration 
critical process parameter 
critical quality attribute 
Castration-resistant prostate cancer 
Coefficient of variation 
Cytochrome P450 
Dehydroepiandrosterone 
Dose limiting toxicity 
differential scanning calorimetry 
ECOG PS  
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 
EI 
ESAS  
FDA  
FP 
GC 
HDPE 
HPLC 
HR  
HSPC  
IMP  
IPC 
IR 
λz  
LHRH  
MO 
MS 
NMR 
PDE 
PFS  
elemental impurities 
Edmonton Symptom Assessment System 
Food and Drug Administration 
finished product 
gas chromatography 
high-density polyethylene 
high performance chromatography 
Hazard ratio 
Hormone sensitive prostate cancer 
Investigational medicinal product 
in-process control 
infra-red spectroscopy 
Apparent first-order elimination or terminal rate constant 
Luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone 
major objection 
mass spectrometry 
nuclear magnetic resonance  
permitted daily exposure 
Progression free survival 
Ph. Eur.   
European Pharmacopoeia 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 3/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PP 
PSA  
PSD 
PVC  
PVDC 
QTPP 
polypropylene 
Prostate specific antigen 
particle size distribution 
Polyvinyl Chloride  
Polyvinylidene Chloride 
quality target product profile 
RECIST   
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 
RH 
SULT  
T  
t1/2  
TGA 
Tmax  
UDP  
UGT  
UHPLC 
UV 
Vd  
XRPD  
Relative humidity 
Sulfotransferase 
Test product 
The elimination half-life associated with the terminal slope of a semi-logarithmic 
concentration-time curve 
thermogravimetric analysis 
The time of maximum plasma drug concentration reached 
Uridine diphosphate 
UDP-glucuronosyl transferase 
ultra high performance chromatography 
ultra-violet spectrometry 
Volume of distribution 
X-Ray Powder Diffraction  
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 4/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare S.L.U. submitted on 12 September 2019 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Abiraterone Accord, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 27 June 2019. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Abiraterone Accord is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for: 
• 
• 
• 
the treatment of newly diagnosed high risk metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer 
(mHSPC) in adult men in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) 
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in adult men who are 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated 
the treatment of mCRPC in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy regimen. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Zytiga instead of non-clinical and clinical data 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 8 years in the EEA:  
• Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zytiga 250mg tablet and Zytiga 500mg film-coated tablet 
• 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Date of authorisation: 05-09-2011 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/11/714/001 and EU/1/11/714/002-003 
• 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zytiga 250mg tablet and Zytiga 500mg film-coated tablet 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 5/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Date of authorisation: 05-09-2011 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/11/714/001 and EU/1/11/714/002-003 
Bioavailability study numbers: Study No. ARL/15/277 and Study No. ARL/18/135 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Alar Irs 
The application was received by the EMA on 
12 September 2019              
The procedure started on 
3 October 2019                 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
20 December 2019 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
03 January 2020 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
30 January 2020 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
11 July 2020 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
21 September 2020 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
01 October 2020 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 6/38 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
15 October 2020        
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
22 December 2020 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
13 January 2021 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
28 January 2021 
the applicant on  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
02 February 2021 
Issues on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
10 February 2021 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
25 February 2021 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Abiraterone Accord on 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
MAAs of Abiraterone Accord 250mg tablets and Abiraterone 500mg film-coated tablets containing abiraterone 
acetate as an active substance are submitted according to the Article 10.1 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as 
amended (i.e. generic application) containing the same active substance in the same pharmaceutical form 
and strengths as the reference product. The reference product Zytiga 250mg tablets and 500mg film-coated 
tablets, marketed by Janssen-Cilag International N.V was first approved in the European Union on 
05/09/2011 via the centralised procedure (EU/1/11/714). 
The drug substance is abiraterone on the form of abiraterone acetate. The Pharmacotherapeutic group: 
endocrine therapy, other hormone antagonists and related agents; ATC code: L02BX03. 
Abiraterone acetate is converted in vivo to abiraterone, an androgen biosynthesis inhibitor. Specifically, 
abiraterone selectively inhibits the enzyme 17α-hydroxylase/C17,20-lyase (CYP17). This enzyme is expressed 
in and is required for androgen biosynthesis in testicular, adrenal and prostatic tumour tissues. CYP17 
catalyses the conversion of pregnenolone and progesterone into testosterone precursors, DHEA and 
androstenedione, respectively, by 17α-hydroxylation and cleavage of the C17,20 bond. CYP17 inhibition also 
results in increased mineralocorticoid production by the adrenals.  
Androgen-sensitive prostatic carcinoma responds to treatment that decreases androgen levels. Androgen 
deprivation therapies, such as treatment with LHRH analogues or orchiectomy, decrease androgen production 
in the testes but do not affect androgen production by the adrenals or in the tumour. Treatment with 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 7/38 
 
 
 
 
Abiraterone acetate decreases serum testosterone to undetectable levels (using commercial assays) when 
given with LHRH analogues (or orchiectomy). 
Abiraterone Accord is used to treat cancer of the prostate in adult men when the cancer is metastatic. It is 
indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for:  
• 
• 
• 
the treatment of newly diagnosed high risk metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in 
adult men in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)  
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in adult men who are 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated  
the treatment of mCRPC in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy regimen.  
For mHSPC, Abiraterone acetate is used with 5 mg prednisone or prednisolone daily and for mCRPC, 
Abiraterone acetate is used with 10 mg prednisone or prednisolone daily. 
The applied indications for the submitted products are the same as authorised for the reference product.  
The products are subject to the medical prescription. 
The recommended single daily dose is 1000mg orally that must not be taken with food. Taking the tablets 
with food increases systemic exposure to abiraterone. Similar to the recommendations in the SmPC of the 
reference product, the tablets should be taken at least two hours after eating and no food should be eaten for 
at least one hour after taking the tablets. The tablets should be swallowed whole with water. 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment according to the SmPC, however, as 
there is no clinical experience with patients with prostate cancer and severe renal impairment, caution is 
advised in these patients. Use of Abiraterone acetate should be cautiously assessed in patients with moderate 
hepatic impairment, in whom the benefit clearly should outweigh the possible risk. Abiraterone should not be 
used in patients with severe hepatic impairment. No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with pre-
existing mild hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh Class A. 
There is no relevant use of Abiraterone Accord in the paediatric population. 
The most common side effects are urinary tract infection, hypokalaemia, high blood pressure, peripheral 
oedema and increases in liver enzymes. Other important side effects include heart problems, liver problems, 
fractures and allergic alveolitis. 
Important identified risks according to the RMP of the reference product are hepatotoxicity, cardiac disorders, 
osteoporosis including osteoporosis-related fractures, rhabdomyolysis/myopathy, allergic alveolitis and 
increased exposure with food. 
The important potential risks are anaemia, cataract and drug-drug interaction (CYP2D6). 
The application is based on two pivotal bioequivalence studies (fasting). 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 8/38 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as tablets containing 250 mg or as film-coated tablets containing 500 mg of 
abiraterone acetate as active substance.  
Other ingredients in the 250 mg tablets are: lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose 
sodium, povidone, sodium lauryl sulphate, colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium stearate;  
Other ingredients in the 500 mg tablets are: 
Tablet cores: lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, hypromellose, sodium 
lauryl sulphate, colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium stearate; 
Film-coating: polyvinyl alcohol, titanium dioxide, macrogol, talc, iron oxide red and iron oxide black. 
The 250 mg tablets are available in white high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles fitted with a 
child-resistance tamper-evident polypropylene (PP) closure and the 500 mg film-coated tablets are available 
in transparent polyvinyl chloride/ polyvinylidene chloride/ aluminium (PVC/PVDC/Al) perforated unit dose 
blisters. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of abiraterone acetate is 17-(pyridin-3-yl)androsta-5,16-dien-3β-yl acetate. It 
corresponds to the molecular formula C26H33NO2. Its relative molecular mass is 391.55 g/mol and it 
has the chemical structure shown in Figure 1. 
Figure 1. Chemical structure of abiraterone acetate. 
The structure of the active substance (AS) was adequately elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis, 
UV spectroscopy, IR spectroscopy, 1H- and 13C-NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS). 
Physicochemical properties were investigated by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), X-Ray Powder 
Diffraction (XRPD) crystallography and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA).  
Abiraterone acetate appears as white to off-white, non-hygroscopic, crystalline powder. It is practically 
insoluble in water and in aqueous media (pH range 2.0 to 12.9), soluble in methanol and freely soluble in 
chloroform. The active substance pKa is 5.19, and its partition coefficient LogP was found to be 5.12. 
Abiraterone acetate is a four-ring androsteroid structure containing eight stereochemical elements, which 
include six chiral centres: 3S, 8R, 9S, 10R, 13S, 14S, four of  which (8R, 10R, 13S, 14S) are in the natural 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 9/38 
 
 
 
 
configuration of steroid skeleton, the other two being formed in the synthetic process of the starting material 
(DHEA). There are also two centres of geometrical isomerism (C5(Z), C16(E)), the confirmations of which are 
enforced by the ring structures. 
Abiraterone acetate exhibits polymorphism. The selected polymorphic form is the thermodynamically most 
stable form and is produced exclusively by the manufacturing process of both manufacturers. The data 
provided on polymorphic form are accepted and stability studies have shown no changes in polymorphism.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Two active substance manufacturers have been stated.  Detailed information on the manufacturing of the 
active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the respective ASMF from each manufacturer and 
it was considered satisfactory. 
Process by ASMF manufacturer #1 
The manufacturing process comprises four chemical synthetic steps, followed by a purification and a 
micronisation step. The proposed starting materials were redefined following a Major Objection (MO) raised 
by the CHMP. The suitability of the redefined starting materials and their control have been properly justified. 
Initially a second, slightly different alternative route of synthesis had been proposed in parallel with the one 
described above but it has been omitted as requested by the CHMP and the ASMF has been updated 
accordingly. 
There are two defined intermediates controlled by acceptable specifications. Critical steps have been 
identified and adequate in-process controls are in place. 
The dossier has also been updated during the procedure in response to a MO with further information on 
potential impurities and their carry-over. The information with regard to the potentially genotoxic impurities 
as well as the carry-over investigations performed are accepted taking into account the proposed indication 
(prostate cancer), hence the ICH M7 guidance is, in general, not applicable and no further questions were 
raised concerning mutagenicity aspects. The control strategy applied with respect to the residual solvents 
used has been significantly improved and further control requirements have been included within the 
specifications of the final AS as well as in the intermediates. The overall control strategy of the active 
substance synthesis ensures the robustness and consistency of the manufacturing process. 
A satisfactory summary of manufacturing process development has been provided. Changes introduced have 
been presented in sufficient detail and have been justified.  
Process by ASMF manufacturer #2 
The manufacturing process comprises four chemical synthetic steps, followed by a purification and a 
micronisation step. The proposed designated starting materials are considered acceptable.  
The suitability of the starting materials and their control have been properly justified; during the procedure 
the dossier has been updated with information on all potential impurities including discussions with regard to 
the carry-over of impurities originating from the defined starting materials. No further questions on potential 
mutagenicity aspects have been raised taking into account the proposed indication (prostate cancer), hence 
the ICH M7 guidance is in general not applicable. The carry-over of residual solvents has also been 
sufficiently addressed. Four isolated intermediates are controlled by acceptable specifications. The overall 
control strategy of the active substance synthesis ensures the robustness and consistency of the 
manufacturing process. Critical steps have been identified and adequate in-process controls (IPCs) are in 
place. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 10/38 
 
 
 
A satisfactory summary of manufacturing process development has been provided. Changes introduced have 
been presented in sufficient detail and have been justified.  
Packaging material 
The AS is packaged into double polyethylene bags. The PE bags are placed in PE drum for the AS obtained from 
ASMF manufacturer #1 and in a fibreboard drum with cap for the AS supplied by ASMF manufacturer #2. The 
specification of the packaging materials has been presented and is satisfactory. The primary packaging material 
complies with the requirements of EU Regulation No. 10/2011, Regulation No. 1935/2004, and with Ph. Eur. 
3.1.3 “Polyolefins”.  
Specification, analytical procedures, reference standards, batch analysis and 
container closure 
The AS specification includes appropriate tests and limits for appearance (visual), identification (HPLC, IR), 
optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), water content (Ph. Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), residual solvents (GC-two 
methods), impurities (HPLC-two methods), assay (HPLC), palladium content (Ph. Eur.), particle size 
distribution (Ph. Eur.) and microbiological contamination (Ph. Eur.). 
The AS specifications have been revised during the procedure to include further test parameters as 
established by the two AS manufacturers. The methods incorporated in the overall specification are 
principally the same as those of each supplier. In addition, a test for residual Pd has been introduced in final 
AS specifications. The proposed limit is below the ICH option 2A limit and it has been shown that it ensures 
that the Pd content in the finished product will not exceed the permitted daily exposure (PDE) (100 ppm). 
Therefore, the proposed Pd content limit in the AS specification is considered sufficient. Palladium is the only 
elemental impurity intentionally introduced in the AS manufacturing process; no further risks for presence of 
other elemental impurities have been identified.  
The AS particle size distribution limits have been set based on the pharmaceutical development of the finished 
product and is acceptable. 
From the provided XRPD diffractograms, it can be concluded that the manufacturing processes consistently 
produce the same polymorphic form which has been shown to be stable over time. It is therefore considered 
justified not to include a test for control of polymorphism in the AS specification. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and validated in accordance with ICH 
guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used in the routine analysis of the AS 
has been presented. 
Batch data were provided for three pilot batches of AS from ASMF manufacturer #1 and six (three pilot and 
three commercial scale) of AS batches manufactured by ASMF manufacturer #2 using the proposed synthetic 
routes for commercial manufacture. All the results comply with the proposed AS specification and 
demonstrate consistent manufacture and quality of the AS manufactured by both suppliers. 
Stability 
ASMF manufacturer #1 batches 
Stability data has been provided for three pilot scale batches manufactured at the proposed manufacturing 
site. These stability batches were packaged in the proposed container closure system. Stability data were 
provided for up to 18 months stored under long term conditions (25°C / 60% RH) and for up to six months 
under accelerated conditions (40°C / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines.  
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 11/38 
 
 
 
Samples were tested for appearance, identification, water content, Pd content, residue on ignition, assay, 
impurities and residual solvents. Results met the specifications regardless of the storage condition. No 
significant trends or variability were observed.  
Stress testing was performed to evaluate degradation of the AS. Samples were placed under a variety of 
stressed conditions to assess the impact of acid, base, oxidation, humidity, heat, and light on the quality of 
the AS. The analytical methods used in the study were also evaluated for their stability indicating capability. 
It was concluded from the data generated that the AS is more sensitive to acidic conditions, less so to basic 
and oxidative conditions, while no degradation was observed to samples exposed to heat and humidity. It 
was also concluded that the HPLC assay and impurities method are stability indicating. 
Photostability testing was carried out as part of the stress testing on a pilot scale batch as per ICH Q1B. No 
degradation was found in the light-exposed and the control samples after the exposure, indicating that AS is 
photostable. 
Based on the available stability data, the proposed retest period of 2 years without any specific storage 
restrictions, is acceptable. 
ASMF manufacturer #2 batches 
Stability data has been provided for seven pilot and three commercial scale batches manufactured at the 
proposed manufacturing site. These stability batches were packaged in the proposed container closure 
system. Stability data were provided for up to 36 months stored under long term conditions (25°C / 60% RH) 
and for up to six months under accelerated conditions (40°C / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines.  
Samples were tested for appearance, identification, water content, assay, impurities and polymorphic form. 
Results met the specifications regardless of the storage condition. No significant trends or variability were 
observed. The XRPD analysis has shown stability of the produced polymorphic form under all testing 
conditions. 
Stress testing of the AS was performed to evaluate degradation of the AS under a variety of stress conditions 
(acid, base, oxidation, humidity, heat, and light (ICH)). The results of the stress study showed a variable 
degree of degradation in line with the findings reported above. It was also demonstrated that the HPLC assay 
and impurities method are stability indicating. 
Based on the available stability data, the proposed retest period of 3 years without any specific storage 
restrictions, is acceptable. 
The stability results from both suppliers indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed 
suppliers is sufficiently stable. The applicant confirmed that the re-test periods as established in the 
respective ASMFs are applied; this approach can be accepted. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
250 mg tablets 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as a white to off-white oval tablet, approximately 16 mm long by 9.5 mm 
wide, debossed with “ATN” on one side and “250” on the other side containing 250 mg of abiraterone acetate 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 12/38 
 
 
 
 
as active substance. The qualitative composition of Abiraterone Accord 250 mg tablets is in section 2.2.1 of 
this report and in SmPC section 6.1.   
The formulation contains commonly used excipients for a product manufactured by means of a wet 
granulation process. All excipients used are well-known and widely used as pharmaceutical ingredients and 
comply with the current pharmacopoeial monographs and/or directives. Both generic and reference product 
have the same qualitative composition. The choice of the excipients was justified, and their functions 
explained. Compatibility between AS and excipients was inferred from stability studies. There is no 
interaction between the AS and the excipients. In addition, the AS retains its desired polymorphic form during 
storage of the finished product. 
The objective of the development of the 250 mg tablets was to develop a generic product which is bioequivalent 
and has a similar dissolution and stability profile to the reference product Zytiga 250 mg tablets. Quality by 
Design principles were applied to develop the generic product. 
A Quality Target Product Profile (QTPP) was defined for abiraterone 250 mg tablets taking into account clinical 
and pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics, in vitro dissolution, physicochemical characteristics of the reference 
product and intellectual property restrictions. 
A risk analysis approach, in accordance with ICH Q9, was used to establish those process parameters that may 
have the greatest impact on product quality. Experiments were designed based on knowledge of the active 
substance,  the  excipients,  and  the  manufacturing  process  and  risk  analyses.  Risk  assessment  was  carried 
throughout development to identify potentially high-risk formulation and process variables and to determine 
which studies were necessary to achieve product and process understanding. Risk Assessment was performed 
to identify the variables affecting the proposed critical quality attributes (CQAs). The relative risk attributed to 
each  element  was  ranked  as  high,  medium  or  low.  Subsequently,  the  risk  assessment  was  updated  after 
formulation  and  process  development  to  capture  the  reduced  level  of  risk  based  on  improved  process 
understanding. An updated risk assessment was found to be satisfactory as the high and medium formulation 
risks were reduced to low. 
Development studies from early formulations to the commercial formulations have been described. The CQAs 
have been determined and investigated during the development. The formulation and process development 
are supported by satisfactory risk assessment summaries and optimisation studies. The submitted 
documentation is considered sufficient in order to get an overview of performed development studies and 
drug specific quality issues.  
Abiraterone acetate is classified as a BCS class IV substance (low solubility and low permeability); therefore, 
the AS particle size is considered a relevant parameter which may have impact on the in vivo dissolution. AS 
with different particle size distributions (PSD) has studied during the development of the finished product and 
the PSD acceptance criteria have been defined accordingly. The pivotal bioequivalence study demonstrated 
that test product manufactured with AS with the defined PSD is bioequivalent with the reference product. The 
AS supplied by the two different suppliers described above is of the same quality; the PSD of the AS is 
controlled by common acceptance criteria. 
Dissolution was investigated in various media in the range of physiological pH between 1.0 and 6.8. The 
choice of the dissolution method test conditions including the need for a surfactant has been discussed in 
sufficient detail. The use and quantity of surfactant in the formulation and dissolution medium is justified. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 13/38 
 
 
 
The data provided to prove the discriminatory power of the method is sufficient. The dissolution method has 
been shown to be discriminatory with regard to relevant formulation and critical material attributes (PSD) 
changes.  
The dissolution profiles between test and reference product can be considered similar in the media intended 
for product batch release based on the investigations performed. In addition, comparative dissolution studies 
with the test biobatch versus the reference product biobatch have been conducted without surfactant as per 
the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence and additionally, under the same conditions with 
surfactant. The test the reference product profiles were shown similar by means of calculating the f2 
similarity factor or visually, as appropriate. 
Based on the QTPP, the physicochemical properties of the AS, the performed risk assessments and 
manufacturing experience gained through the development phase of this product, wet granulation was 
selected as manufacturing process. Initial manufacturing process development studies were performed on a 
laboratory scale and afterwards, the process was further qualified at a larger scale using equipment 
resembling that intended for commercial manufacture. The process has been optimised with regard to the 
granules’ flowability properties and tablet hardness. Also, during process development blend and content 
uniformity, and dissolution profiles were evaluated and found to be within the pre-determined acceptable 
ranges. Based on the development activities conducted and the batches manufactured, acceptable ranges for 
critical process parameters (CPPs) of the manufacturing process at commercial scale have been established. 
The proposed container closure system is common for this type of dosage form. Tablets are packaged in 
HDPE bottles fitted with a child-resistance tamper-evident PP closure. The materials comply with relevant 
directives and regulations on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs (i.e. EU No 10/2011, Ph. 
Eur. 3.2.2, Ph. Eur. 3.1.3). Compliance with ISO 8317 for the child-proof container was confirmed. The choice 
of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of 
the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing site of Abiraterone Accord 250 mg tablets has been stated. The manufacturing process 
comprises three main phases: preparation of granulate, preparation of pre-compression blend and tablet 
compression. The commercial batch size range has been clearly stated and is acceptable. Wet granulation is 
applied during the manufacturing process. The manufacturing process is a standard process.  
The IPCs are considered suitable for the control of the process parameters as defined during the development 
studies. The applicant has not defined any prolonged bulk holding times despite using many different 
packaging sites, hence it is assumed that bulk products are not stored over 30 days. It is confirmed and 
stated in the dossier that the start of shelf-life of the finished product is set in accordance with 
CPMP/QWP/072/96; this is acceptable. 
The manufacturing process validation has been performed on three batches at the lower end of the batch size 
range. The results demonstrate that the proposed manufacturing process is capable of producing a product 
with consistent quality that meets the specifications. The process validation data were generated using AS 
from a single AS source. However, since this is a standard manufacturing process for a conventional product, 
process validation data covering the second AS supplier are not required to be submitted prior to 
authorisation. In addition, an acceptable process validation scheme, applicable to tablets produced with AS 
from either supplier, that will be applied for prospective validation of consecutive full-scale batches at the 
upper end of the batch size range has been presented.  
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 14/38 
 
 
 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for appearance 
(visual), identification (UV, UHPLC), assay (UHPLC), impurities (UHPLC), dissolution (Ph. Eur., UV) and 
uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.). 
Identification and uniformity of dosage units are tested only during release. This is acceptable as these are 
not considered stability indicating parameters. The limits for assay of the active substance have been justified 
based on the batch analysis and stability study results. The proposed limits for individual impurities have 
been tightened during the procedure and are in line with the thresholds according to ICH Q3B and also based 
on the stability results obtained during the stability studies. The shelf life limits stated for the known potential 
degradation impurities are higher than the ICH qualification threshold but are based on the stability results 
and have been toxicologically qualified considering a Maximum Daily Dose of 1,000 mg. The initially proposed 
dissolution limit was not in line with the Reflection paper on the dissolution specification for generic solid oral 
immediate release products with systemic action and CHMP requested in a MO that the limit is tightened in 
line with the reflection paper. The limit was subsequently tightened as requested. The absence of microbial 
testing at release and during end-of-shelf life is justified, based on the water activity studied during 
development and the microbial testing batch analysis results.  
A satisfactory risk assessment summary on elemental impurities (EI) in accordance with ICH Q3D guideline 
was provided. The total EI contribution even for Pd (class 2B element) which is intentionally used in the AS 
production remains well below to the control threshold (defined as 30% of the established PDE) considering 
the maximum daily dose of 1000 mg. Batch analysis data on 14 AS batches have been presented; this data 
indicates that Pd levels in the finished product cannot exceed 30% of the respective PDE. Therefore, 
according to the ICH Q3D, no additional control is necessary for the finished product. 
A risk evaluation concerning the potential presence of nitrosamine impurities in the finished product was 
submitted considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with the “Questions and answers for 
marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion for the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020) and the 
“Assessment report- Procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation EC (No) 726/2004- Nitrosamine impurities in 
human medicinal products” (EMA/369136/2020). Based on the information provided, no risk was identified 
and no additional control measures are deemed necessary. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
The finished product is released onto the market based on the above release specifications, through 
traditional final product release testing. 
Batch analysis data have been provided on three commercial scale batches of the finished product (including 
the biobatch) manufactured with AS from ASMF manufacturer #1. All the test results remain within the 
proposed specification limits. Batch results from an additional lab scale batch manufactured with a process 
equivalent to commercial manufacturing process using AS from ASMF manufacturer #2 were also presented. 
It is noted that the 500 mg film-coated tablets (see below in this report) were developed at production scale 
with AS from ASMF manufacture #2 while the 250mg tablets were developed using AS from ASMF 
manufacturer #1. Although lab scale batches may not present adequate information by themselves due to 
their small size, considering the simplicity of the manufacturing process and the similar excipients used, the 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 15/38 
 
 
 
presented additional information is considered sufficient. It can be further accepted that both AS suppliers 
can be used to manufacture the 250 mg tablets.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches, stored for up to 24 months under long term conditions 
(25±2°C / 60±5% RH), and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40±2ºC / 75±5% RH), 
according to the ICH guidelines, were provided. These primary stability batches were manufactured at the 
proposed manufacturing site and were packaged in the proposed commercial container closure system. 
Stability samples were tested for appearance, dissolution, assay, impurities and microbial contamination. For 
the microbial contamination the samples were tested using the relevant Ph. Eur. method. Regardless of the 
storage conditions, results comply with the specification limits at the time of testing. No trends were 
observed under all conditions. 
Stability data from a lab scale batch made with active substance from one manufacturer stored for 12 months 
under long term conditions, and for 6 months under accelerated conditions has also been presented and 
compared with the stability results of the test product biobatch. With the exception of the out of specification 
(OOS) level of a degradation product, all other parameters were within the specification limits and 
comparable with those of the biobatch. The OOS results at release were attributed to the fact that the sample 
was analysed 3 months after production and not at release. The observed subsequent increase of some 
impurities in the product was similar compared to finished product batches with AS from one manufacturer 
and the reported result is within the acceptance criteria for end-of-shelf life (NMT 0.70%). It is therefore 
considered that the stability profiles of finished product batches manufactured with AS from either supplier 
are comparable. 
A photostability study as per ICH Q1B guidance was conducted on a commercial scale batch. The results indicate 
that the product is stable when exposed to light.  
An  in-use  stability  study  was  designed  to  simulate  daily  use  and  was  conducted  on  two  commercial  scale 
batches to support an in-use period of 60 days. This 60-day period was based on the labelling information. This 
study was performed with product packaged in the proposed container closure stored at 30ºC/ 75% RH. All 
tested samples complied with the acceptance criteria. No significant changes were observed. Hence, it is not 
necessary to lay down a separate in-use shelf-life in the product information. 
A forced degradation study was also performed on a single batch exposing samples to light, thermal (humid 
and dry) degradation, oxidation by an oxidative agent, presence of metal ions, basic and acidic hydrolysis 
conditions. No significant degradation was observed under humid thermal, dry thermal and photolytic 
treatments. The degradation was significant under oxidative and acidic hydrolysis conditions and less 
prominent in the presence of metal ions and under basic hydrolysis conditions. This study also demonstrated 
that the analytical method for impurities is stability indicating.   
Based on the overall submitted stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 2 years without any special storage 
condition, as stated in SmPC 6.3 and 6.4, is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
Lactose monohydrate used in Abiraterone Accord 250 mg tablets is of animal origin. It is confirmed that the 
lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those used to collect milk for 
human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of ruminant material other than 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 16/38 
 
 
 
calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform 
Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
500 mg film-coated tablets 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as immediate-release oval-shaped purple film-coated tablets, 
approximately 19 mm long by 11 mm wide and debossed with “A7TN” on one side and “500” on the other 
side containing 500 mg of abiraterone acetate as active substance. The qualitative composition of Abiraterone 
Accord 500 mg tablets is in section 2.2.1 of this report and in SmPC section 6.1.   
The formulation contains commonly used excipients for a product manufactured by means of a wet 
granulation process. All excipients used are well-known and widely used as pharmaceutical ingredients and 
comply with the current pharmacopoeial monographs and/or directives. Both generic and reference products 
have the same qualitative composition. The choice of the excipients was justified, and their functions 
explained. Compatibility between AS and excipients was assessed in binary mixtures of each excipient with 
AS stored at elevated temperatures and under refrigerated conditions. There was no observed interaction 
between the AS and the excipients. In addition, the AS retains its desired polymorphic form during storage of 
the finished product. These results were confirmed by accelerated stability data of the final drug product. 
PSD was considered an important parameter because of possible influence on dissolution and bioavailability. 
Finished product containing ASs with different PSDs was tested for dissolution. Based on these studies, limits 
for PSD were defined, which were later confirmed by the pivotal bioequivalence study. The outcome of this 
bioequivalence study demonstrated that test product is bioequivalent to the reference product (Zytiga 500 
mg). 
The objective of the development of Abiraterone Accord 500 mg film-coated tablets was to develop a generic 
product which is bioequivalent and has a similar dissolution and stability profile with the reference product 
Zytiga 500 mg. Quality by Design was applied to develop the generic product. 
A QTPP was defined for the 500 mg film-coated tablets taking into account clinical and PK characteristics, in 
vitro dissolution, physicochemical characteristics of the reference product and intellectual property 
restrictions. 
A risk assessment (RA) was performed to identify critical formulation variables and their influence on CQAs. 
The AS attributes of abiraterone ranked as high/medium risk in the initial AS RA were included in the initial 
RA of the formulation. Based on that, the different formulation variables and their influence on the 
high/medium risked CQAs were studied. 
The formulation development has been clearly presented. The impact of filler type, glidant, amount of 
surfactant, disintegrant, amount of binder, AS PSD and coating on the relevant product quality attributes and 
on the manufacturing process were investigated by purposely designed studies. Based on the outcome of the 
formulation development studies, the RA was updated. The final proposed commercial formulation as 
presented above was defined. 
Dissolution was investigated in various media in the range of physiological pH between 1.0 and 6.8. The 
choice of the dissolution method test conditions including the need for a surfactant and its quantity has been 
discussed in sufficient detail and are justified. The data provided to prove the discriminatory power of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 17/38 
 
 
 
method is sufficient. The dissolution method has been shown to be discriminatory with regard to relevant 
meaningful formulation changes.  
The dissolution profiles between test and reference products can be considered similar in the medium 
intended for product batch release based on the investigations performed. In addition, comparative 
dissolution studies with the test biobatch versus the reference product biobatch have been conducted without 
surfactant as per the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence. The test the reference product profiles 
were shown to be similar by means of calculating the f2 similarity factor or visually, as appropriate. 
Based on the QTPP, the physicochemical properties of the AS, the performed risk assessments and 
manufacturing experience gained through the development phase of this product, wet granulation was 
selected as was the case for the 250 mg tablets. Potentially CPPs were studied in all the steps of the 
manufacturing process. Based on the development activities conducted and the batches manufactured, 
acceptable ranges for CPPs for the manufacturing process at commercial scale have been established. 
The finished product is packaged into transparent Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) / Polyvinylidene Chloride (PVDC) / 
Aluminium (Al) blisters. The materials comply with relevant directives and regulations on materials intended 
to come into contact with foodstuffs (i.e. EU No 10/2011, Ph. Eur. 3.2.2, Ph. Eur. 3.1.3). The choice of the 
container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the 
product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing site for Abiraterone Accord 500 mg film-coated tablets has been stated. The 
manufacturing process comprises 6 main steps: preparation of blend 1, granulation, preparation of blend 2, 
preparation of final blend, tablet compression and film-coating. The commercial batch size range has been 
clearly stated and is acceptable. Wet granulation is applied during the manufacturing process. The 
manufacturing process is a standard process.  
The IPCs are considered suitable for the control of the process parameters as defined during the development 
studies. Bulk holding times have not been defined; it is confirmed and stated in the dossier that the start of 
shelf-life of the finished product is set in accordance with CPMP/QWP/072/96; this is acceptable. 
The manufacturing process validation has been performed on three batches at the lower end of the batch size 
range. The results demonstrate that the proposed manufacturing process is capable of producing a product 
with consistent quality that meets the specifications. The process validation data generated using AS from a 
single AS source. However, since this is a standard manufacturing process for a conventional product, 
process validation data covering the second AS supplier are not required to be submitted prior to 
authorisation.  In addition, an acceptable process validation scheme, applicable to film-coated tablets 
produced with AS from either supplier, that will be applied for prospective validation of consecutive full-scale 
batches at the upper end of the batch size range has been presented.  
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for appearance 
(visual), identification (UV, UHPLC), assay (UHPLC), impurities (UHPLC), dissolution (Ph. Eur., UV) and 
uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.). 
Identification and uniformity of dosage units are tested only during release, which is acceptable as these are 
not considered stability indicating parameters. The limits for assay of active substance are the same as for 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 18/38 
 
 
 
the 250 mg tablets; they have been tightened during the procedure and have been justified based on the 
batch analysis and stability study results. 
The proposed limits for individual impurities are the same as for the 250 mg tablets; they have been 
tightened during the procedure and are in line with the thresholds according to ICH Q3B and also based on 
the stability results obtained during the stability studies. The shelf life limits stated for the known potential 
degradation impurities are higher than the ICH qualification threshold but are based on the stability results 
and have been toxicologically qualified considering a Maximum Daily Dose of 1,000 mg.  
The dissolution limit was set in accordance with the Reflection paper on the dissolution specification for 
generic solid oral immediate release products with systemic action. 
As for the 250 mg, the absence of microbial testing at release and during end-of-shelf life was justified, 
based on the water activity studied during development and the microbial testing batch analysis results.  
A satisfactory risk assessment summary on EI in accordance with ICH Q3D guideline was provided. The total 
EI contribution even for Pd (class 2B element) which is intentionally used in the AS production remains well 
below to the control threshold (defined as 30% of the established PDE) considering the maximum daily dose 
of 1000 mg. Batch analysis data on 14 AS batches have been presented; this data indicates that Pd levels in 
the finished product cannot exceed 30% of the respective PDE. Therefore, according to the ICH Q3D, no 
additional control is necessary for the finished product. 
A risk evaluation concerning the potential presence of nitrosamine impurities in the finished product was 
submitted considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with the “Questions and answers for 
marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion for the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020) and the 
“Assessment report- Procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation EC (No) 726/2004- Nitrosamine impurities in 
human medicinal products” (EMA/369136/2020). Based on the information provided, no risk was identified, 
and no additional control measures are deemed necessary. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing. 
Batch analysis data have been provided on three commercial scale batches of the finished product (including 
the biobatch) manufactured with AS from ASMF manufacturer #2. All the test results remain within the 
proposed specification limits. Batch results from an additional lab scale batch manufactured with a process 
equivalent to commercial manufacturing process using AS from ASMF manufacturer #1 were also presented. 
It is noted that the 250 mg tablets (see above in this report) were developed at production scale with AS 
from manufacturer #1 while the 500 mg tablets were developed using AS from ASMF manufacturer #2. 
Although lab scale batches may not present adequate information by themselves due to their small size, 
considering the simplicity of the manufacturing process and the similar excipients used, the presented 
additional information is considered sufficient. It can be further accepted that both AS suppliers can be used 
to manufacture the 500 mg film-coated tablets.  
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 19/38 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches, stored for up to 18 months under long term conditions 
(25±2°C / 60±5% RH), and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40±2ºC / 75±5% RH), 
according to the ICH guidelines, were provided. These primary stability batches were manufactured at the 
proposed manufacturing site and were packaged in the proposed commercial container closure system and in 
addition, in HDPE bottles (as supportive data). 
Stability samples were tested for appearance, dissolution, assay, impurities, water activity and microbial 
contamination. For the microbial contamination, the samples were tested using the relevant Ph. Eur. method; 
the methodology for the water activity study was presented in the pharmaceutical development section. 
Regardless of the storage conditions, results complied with the specification limits at the time of testing. No 
trends were observed under all conditions.  
Stability data from a lab scale batch made with active substance from ASMF manufacturer #1 stored for 12 
months under long term conditions, and for 6 months under accelerated conditions has also been presented 
and compared with the stability results of the 500 mg test product biobatch. All parameters were within the 
specification limits and comparable with those of the biobatch. It is therefore considered that the stability 
profiles of finished product batches manufactured with AS from either supplier are comparable. 
A photostability study as per ICH Q1B guidance was conducted on a commercial scale batch. The results indicate 
that the product is stable when exposed to light.  
Supportive data from an in-use stability study designed to simulate worst-case scenario and conducted on 
one commercial scale batch in an open container (HDPE bottle container) over 90 days, stored at 25ºC / 
60% RH was provided too. The evaluation of data demonstrates that no significant change is observed. Since 
the HDPE bottle container is not intended for marketing, it is not necessary to lay down an in-use shelf-life in 
the product information. 
A forced degradation study was also performed on a single batch exposing samples to light, thermal (humid 
and dry) degradation, oxidation by an oxidative agent, presence of metal ions, basic and acidic hydrolysis 
conditions. No significant degradation was observed under photolytic, humid thermal or dry thermal 
treatments. The degradation was significant in the presence of metal ions, and under acidic hydrolysis, basic 
hydrolysis and oxidative conditions. This study also demonstrated that the analytical method for impurities is 
stability indicating.   
Based on the overall submitted stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 2 years without any special storage 
condition, as stated in SmPC 6.3 and 6.4, is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
Lactose monohydrate used in Abiraterone Accord 500 mg film-coated tablets is of animal origin. It is 
confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those used to 
collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of ruminant 
material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting 
Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 20/38 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance has been presented in a 
satisfactory manner. The active substance is supplied by two manufacturers. A MO was raised in relation to a 
starting material (SM) and the initial proposal for alternative synthetic processes by ASMF manufacturer #1; 
it has been resolved by redefining the SM and clearly define a single process. Another MO, linked with the 
redefinition of the SM, concerning the information on all potential impurities related to AS from ASMF 
manufacturer #1, has also been resolved by the provision of updated discussion and the relevant dossier 
updating. The active substance is controlled by the same set of specification for both sources. The overall 
control strategy applied by both AS manufacturers and the applicant is adequately justified and is acceptable.  
The finished product is a 250 mg tablet and a 500 mg film-coated tablet generic of Zytiga. Information on 
development, manufacture and control of the finished product has also been presented in a satisfactory 
manner. A MO raised regarding the initially proposed dissolution test limits for the 250 mg tablet has been 
resolved by tightening the limit in line with existing guidance. The manufacturing process for both the tablets 
and the film-coated tablets is a standard manufacturing process and sufficient process validation data has 
been provided. Active substance from both suppliers can be used to manufacture both the 250 mg tablet and 
the 500 mg film-coated tablets of comparable quality. Bioequivalence of both the tablets and the film-coated 
tablets with the reference product has been demonstrated. 
The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable and consistent. Physicochemical and biological 
aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled 
in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
None. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological 
properties of abiraterone are well known. As abiraterone is a widely used, well-known active substance. The 
overview justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics 
and toxicology data. The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
The impurity profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 21/38 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Abiraterone Accord manufactured by Accord Healthcare S.L.U. is considered unlikely to result 
in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all abiraterone acetate containing products and 
the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar. 
The applicant presented data on the environmental exposure of the active substance in line with the question 
1 in ‘Questions and answers’ in 'Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for 
human use' (EMA/CHMP/SWP/44609/2010 Rev. 1).  
In 2019, abiraterone sales in the EU (including the UK) totalled 11,779 kg. In the EU no generic abiraterone 
containing product is available yet. In the USA, generic abiraterone products are available since 2017, and 
market data indicate that a 15% increase could occur in 2020 compared to 2018 sales volumes. The impact 
on the sales volumes of abiraterone products has been assessed assuming a market volume increase of 20% 
in the European market as a worst-case estimate. This will amount in 14,134 kg abiraterone being used 
(including UK and when using 2019 as the reference year). 
Based on 2019 total actual API sales, the PEC value for abiraterone is 0,036 µg/L (the worst-case estimate, 
no removal in WWTP or refinement used, EU population 447,7 million). The PNEC value for abiraterone is 
0.0013 μg/L, which results in PEC/PNEC value of 27,72. Assuming a market volume increase of 20%, the 
calculated PEC is 0,0432, and PEC/PNEC value is 33,27. 
The PNEC value used is available in the public domain, i.e. in the Swedish FASS. 
The environmental risk for use of Abiraterone acetate was concluded for the originator product: Based on 
daily dose 1000 mg/day, the initial PEC was 5 µg/L. Considering refinement due to waste water treatment 
plant removal (removal rate of 87,2%) and market penetration (based on 2019 sales), the refined PEC was 
0,0046 µg/L, and PEC/PNEC was 3,56 for fish (modified partial life-cycle exposure test to identify endocrine 
disrupting properties). Abiraterone is metabolised into two inactive metabolites (abiraterone sulfate and N-
oxide abiraterone sulfate), excreted in faeces (~88%) and urine (~5%), but the major compounds present in 
faeces are unchanged abiraterone acetate and abiraterone (approximately 55% and 22% of the administered 
dose, respectively), the substance largely not being biodegradable but shifting to the sediment. No risk was 
identified in the Tier IIB studies of the originator for sediment dwelling organisms (lowest NOEC was 
100 mg/kg). Refinement considerations for abiraterone PECwater show Koc values that indicate most of 
abiraterone remains or has a significant retention time in the sludge in WWTPs. Abiraterone will degrade in 
the aquatic environment with an aerobic degradation half-life in water of 2.3 days and of 3.3 days in aquatic 
sediment systems, and potential impacts for sediment/soil organisms are much lower than in aquatic 
compartment (data not shown). 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical overview is based on published literature data. This is acceptable since abiraterone is well 
known active substance and essential similarity is claimed to the reference product. There are no new non-
clinical studies performed in support of the proposed application hence the presented Non-clinical Overview is 
considered sufficient for this type of MAA.  
The applicant has provided brief comparative assessment of PEC/PNEC calculations before and after generic 
introduction. A market volume increase of 20% in the European market is a reasonable worst-case estimate, 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 22/38 
 
 
 
thus, it can be agreed that the increase of the PEC/PNEC is not expected to significantly alter the 
environmental impact of abiraterone.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of Abiraterone Accord was provided and was 
accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional non-clinical studies 
were not considered necessary. Information provided on the ERA is sufficient. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns a generic application of a centrally authorised medicinal product according to Art. 
10 (1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The reference product for the application is Zytiga 250 mg tablets and Zytiga 500 mg film-coated tablets by 
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Belgium. The community granted first marketing authorisation of the 
reference product Zytiga® on 07/09/2011 under number EMEA/H/C/002321. 
Relevant for the assessment are the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as well as the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09). 
To support the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted two bioequivalence studies with 
cross-over design under fasting conditions. 
The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted two bioequivalence studies, as the application 
concerns two different formulations: 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study No. ARL/15/277 A randomized, two-treatment, four-period, two-sequence, single-dose, full-
replicate crossover, bioequivalence study comparing abiraterone acetate 250 mg tablets and Zytiga 250 mg 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 23/38 
 
 
 
 
 
tablets, in healthy, adult, male volunteers under fasting conditions. 
Methods 
Study design  
Study ARL/15/277 was a randomized, two-treatment, four-period, two-sequence, single-dose, full-replicate 
crossover bioequivalence study in healthy, adult, male volunteers under fasting conditions with a wash out 
period of 7 days between two administrations. In each period single oral dose of either test or reference 
product of abiraterone acetate uncoated 250 mg tablets was administered.   
Administrative data 
CRO: Accutest Research Laboratories India (I) Pvt. Ltd., A-31, M.I.D.C, TTC Industrial Area, Khairane, Navi 
Mumbai – 400 709, Maharashtra, India.  
Sponsor: Synthon B.V., The Netherlands 
Site and dates of clinical and analytical part of the study: Accutest Research Lab (I) Pvt. Ltd., India. 
Clinical part: Oct 15 to Nov 09, 2015. Analytical part: Nov 19, 2015 to Apr 06, 2016  
Study Protocol version 02 dated Aug 05, 2015 and the informed consent forms were approved by 
Independent Ethics Committee on Aug 19, 2015. The Amendment to protocol and other related documents 
were reviewed and approved by the members of Independent Ethics Committee on Oct 01, 2015.  
Food and fluid intake 
The subjects were confined within the facility from at least 10.50 hours before dosing until 24.00 hrs post-
dose in each study period. Blood samples at 36, 48 and 72 hrs post-dose were collected on ambulatory basis. 
After an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, subjects were administered a single 250 mg dose of a tablet of 
either the test or the reference product in sitting posture with 240 mL of drinking water. Subjects received 
lunch at least 4 hours after dosing in each period and further meals were served at appropriate intervals from 
then on. Water was not permitted 1 hour before dosing until 1 hours post-dosing. At all other times drinking 
water was given ad libitum. 
Sampling schedule 
A total of 18 blood samples (5 mL each) were collected from the subjects in K2EDTA vacutainers during each 
study period at pre-dose (collected within 1 hr prior to dosing), 0.25, 0.50, 1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 
3.50, 4.00, 5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 12.00, 24.00, 36.00, 48.00 and 72.00 hrs post-dose. There was a 7-day 
washout period between each of the four study periods. The total blood volume collected per subject was 401 
mL. 
Test and reference products  
Test Product: Abiraterone acetate 250 mg tablets by Synthon Hispania S.L., Spain/Synthon BV, The 
Netherlands; batch No. 150047; batch size: 100,000 tablets (commercial batch size); manufacturing date: 
Sept 03, 2015, expiry date: Sept 2016. 
Reference Product: ZYTIGA 250 mg tablets by Janssen-Cilag International NV, Belgia; Lot No.: EFZS200 
from German market; expiry date: May 2016. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 24/38 
 
 
 
Population(s) studied 
A total of 50 healthy male subjects (Asian race, aged 20 – 43 years, BMI 18.71 – 29.76 kg/m2) were enrolled 
in the study. Only non-smokers were allowed in this study.  
49 subjects completed the clinical phase of the study and received twice test and reference product. The 
plasma samples of the 50 subjects were analysed and considered for pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
Data of 49 subjects was considered for within subject CV calculations. 
Dropouts:  
Subject No.44 was withdrawn due to adverse event (fever) after dosing in period IV. Subject No. 44 
completed first three study periods (Period I, II and III) successfully and hence was considered for 
pharmacokinetic analysis. Data of subject no. 44 was not considered for calculation of within subject CV as he 
did not complete at least two reference treatment periods. 
Analytical methods 
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using a validated LC-MS/MS method over a concentration 
range of 0.201 ng/mL to 100.018 ng/mL for abiraterone. Study drug was extracted from 200 µl of plasma 
using solid phase extraction. Abiraterone-D4 was used as internal standard. Further partial method validation 
was done on additional instrument with lower limit of quantification 0.202 ng/mL with linearity range 0.202 
ng/mL to 99.957 ng/mL.   
Blood samples were collected into K2EDTA tubes and centrifuged within 60 minutes after the last blood draw 
at 3500 RPM for 10 minutes at 5°C ± 3°C. In each 1 mL plasma aliquot (analytical and control), 0.2 mL of 1M 
Ascorbic acid solution was added immediately and mixed. All plasma samples were stored at -20°C ± 5ºC 
until the analysis. The bioanalyses were carried out between Nov 19, 2015 and Apr 06, 2016. 
9 non-zero calibrates and 4 levels of QC samples were used. LOQ was 0.201 ng/mL. The quality control (QC) 
concentrations were 0.201 (LOQ QC), 0.601 (low), 12.015 (low medium), 35.044 (medium), 80.099 (high) 
and 160.199 (dilution) ng/mL. Four QC samples with concentrations 0.602 (LQC), 12.041 (M1QC), 35.120 
(MQC) and 80.275 (HQC) ng/mL were used for study sample analysis.  
The linear calibration curve calculated by weighted linear regression (weight = 1/x2) was used for calculation 
of sample concentration. 
Pre-study validation and bio-analytical report are provided. The method selectivity and sensitivity were 
demonstrated. Stability of analytes at various conditions during storage, sample preparation and analysis was 
shown according to the requirements for bio-analytical method validation. Dilution integrity, carryover and 
matrix effect were tested. The mean recovery from plasma was 71.3% for abiraterone.  
Study sample analysis: Accuracy and precision of the back-calculated concentrations of the calibration curve 
standard points during the study were 98.6 to 101.4% and 1.6 to 3.3%, respectively. The between run 
precision and accuracy of quality control samples were 2.3 to 4.6% and 98.2 to 101.0 %, respectively. 
Composition of analytical runs has been described.  
Incurred sample reanalysis was conducted on 400 samples (11.15% of 3587 samples). 93.75% (25/400) of 
concentrations obtained by reanalysis were found within 20% of their mean initial value. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 25/38 
 
 
 
The maximum study sample storage period from first blood draw (Oct 16, 2015) to last sample analysis (Apr 
06, 2016) was 173 days. The long-term stability data of abiraterone in human plasma covers 186 days at -
20±5°C.  
All concentration values below limit of quantification were set as zero for PK analysis. 
Reanalysis of study samples: A total of 3587 study samples were received and analysed in 59 accepted 
analytical runs. 31 (0.86%) samples were re-assayed for analytical reasons (sample outside assay range, 
inconsistent internal standard area response). 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Primary variables were Cmax and AUC0-72.  
Secondary pharmacokinetic parameters determined were AUC0-∞, Tmax, residual area, Kel, and t½. 
Statistical methods 
The pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated from the plasma concentration vs. time profile.  Statistical 
comparison of the PK of the two formulations was carried out using PROC GLM of SAS® Version 9.2 (SAS 
Institute Inc., USA) to assess the bioequivalence between test and reference formulations. 
PK parameters for each individual were tabulated and graphically presented. Actual time-points of the sample 
collection are used for the calculation of PK parameters. All concentration values below the lower limit of 
quantification are set to zero for the pharmacokinetic and statistical calculations. Individual AUC parameters 
were calculated using the linear trapezoidal rule. ANOVA was performed on the ln-transformed Cmax, AUC0-72 
and AUC0-∞. Non-parametric analysis of tmax was performed on untransformed data. ANOVA model included 
sequences, subjects nested within sequence, period and treatment as fixed factors.  
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
For AUC0-72 and if for Cmax the within-subject variability of reference product (SWR) was <= 30%, the 
acceptance range is 80.00-125.00% for Abiraterone.  
If it was demonstrated that the within-subject variability of reference product (SWR) for Cmax is >30% as 
assessed using replicate design, then widened acceptance criteria for Cmax would be considered. 
Results 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters for abiraterone (non-transformed values; 250 mg dosage 
strength) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test 
Reference 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
geometric mean 
AUC(0-72h) 
(ng*hr/mL) 
246.14 
204.53 
± 149.77 
233.70 
± 136.71 
197.65 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 26/38 
 
 
 
 
Test 
Reference 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
geometric mean 
AUC(0-∞) 
(ng*hr/mL) 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
252.90 
211.93 
45.79 
35.40 
±151.06 
240.05 
±136.78 
±35.63 
205.53 
44.44 
35.52 
±29.62 
Tmax* (hrs) 
2.00 
0.50 - 12.00 
2.00 
0.50- 5.00 
AUC0-72h    
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 hours  
AUC0-∞   
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
Cmax  
Tmax  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 2. Statistical analysis for abiraterone (ln-transformed values), N=50 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC(0-72h)  
Cmax  
Geometric Mean 
Ratio Test/Reference 
(%) 
103.48 
99.66 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
Confidence 
Intervals (%) 
Within subject 
CV%* 
variability of reference 
product (%) 
95.95 - 111.61 
33.04  
29.58 
90.66 - 109.56 
42.01  
36.08 (N=49) 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 27/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for abiraterone after administration of Test 
and Reference formulations (250 mg) to healthy subjects (N=50). 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 28/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Semi-logarithmic plot of mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for abiraterone after 
administration of Test and Reference formulations (250 mg) to healthy subjects (N=50). 
Safety data 
A total of four AEs were reported during the clinical phase of the study of which, three AEs (bradycardia) 
were possibly related to study drug and one AE (fever) was not related to study drug. The AEs were mild to 
moderate in severity and were resolved.  
No serious AEs were observed during the clinical phase. 
Study No. ARL/18/135 A randomized, blinded, balanced, two-treatment, four-period, two sequence, single 
dose, full replicate, crossover, bioequivalence study of test product abiraterone acetate 500 mg film-coated 
tablets with reference product Zytiga 500 mg film-coated tablets in healthy, adult, male volunteers under 
fasting conditions. 
Methods 
Study design  
Study ARL/18/135 was designed as a single centre, randomized, open label, two-treatment, four-period, two 
sequence, single dose, full replicate crossover bioequivalence study in healthy, adult, male volunteers under 
fasting conditions with a wash out period of 7 days between two administrations. In each period single oral 
dose of either test or reference product of abiraterone acetate 500 mg film-coated tablets was 
administered.   
Administrative data 
CRO: Accutest Research Laboratories India (I) Pvt. Ltd., India.  
Sponsor: Synthon B.V., The Netherlands 
Site and dates of clinical and analytical part of the study: Accutest Research Lab (I) Pvt. Ltd., India. 
Clinical part: Nov 19, 2018 to Jan 02, 2019. Analytical part: Dec 24, 2018 to Jan 19, 2019  
Study Protocol version 01 dated Aug 27, 2018 and the informed consent forms were approved by 
Independent Ethics Committee on Sept 09, 2018.  
The final report version 01 is dated July 02, 2019. 
Food and fluid intake 
Following an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, a single oral dose 500 mg film-coated tablet of either the 
test or the reference product was administered to the trial subjects with 240 mL of water. Plasma samples 
were taken at regular intervals during 72 hours after dose administration. There was a washout period of at 
least 7 days between each of the four study periods. 
Sampling schedule 
A total of 18 blood samples (5 mL each) were collected from the subjects in K2EDTA vacutainers during each 
study period at pre-dose (collected within 1 hr prior to dosing), 0.25, 0.50, 1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 
3.50, 4.00, 5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 12.00, 24.00, 36.00, 48.00 and 72.00 hrs post-dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 29/38 
 
 
 
 
Test and reference products  
Test Product: Abiraterone acetate 500 mg film-coated tablets by Synthon Hispania S.L., Spain/Synthon BV, 
The Netherlands; batch No. 180025A; batch size: 100,000 tablets (commercial batch size); manufacturing 
date: July 04, 2018, expiry date: Jan 2019. 
Reference Product: ZYTIGA® 500 mg film-coated tablets by Janssen-Cilag International NV, Belgia; Lot 
No.: IDZT100; expiry date: Mar 2020. 
Population(s) studied 
A total of 50 healthy male subjects (Asian race, aged 22 – 43 years, BMI 19.43 – 29.09 kg/m2) were enrolled 
in the study. Only non-smokers were allowed.  
47 subjects completed all four study periods, one subject completed the first 3 study periods, and two 
subjects completed only one study period. The plasma samples of all 50 subjects were analysed. 48 subjects 
were included for pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses. Data of 47 subjects were considered for 
calculation of within-subject variability of the reference product. 
Dropouts: 
Three dropouts: Subject No.01 and No.43 were withdrawn due to personal reason on check-in day of period 
II. Subject No. 07 was withdrawn due to adverse event (high serum potassium) noted in pre enrolment 
health check-up for period IV. 
Analytical methods 
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using a validated LC-MS/MS method over a concentration 
range of 0.401 ng/mL to 200.381 ng/mL for abiraterone. Study drug was extracted from 200 µl of plasma 
using solid phase extraction. Abiraterone-D4 was used as internal standard.  
Blood samples were collected into K2EDTA tubes and centrifuged within 60 minutes after the last blood draw 
at 3500 RPM for 10 minutes at 5°C ± 3°C. In each 1 mL plasma aliquot (analytical and control), 0.2 mL of 1M 
Ascorbic acid solution was added immediately and mixed. All plasma samples were stored at -20°C ± 5ºC 
until the analysis. The bioanalyses were carried out between Dec 24, 2018 and Jan 19, 2019. 
9 non-zero calibrates and 5 levels of QC samples were used. LOQ was 0.401 ng/mL. The quality control (QC) 
concentrations were 0.401 (LOQ QC), 1.203 (low), 24.06 (low medium), 70.175 (medium), 160.399 (high) 
and 801.996 (dilution) ng/mL.  
The linear calibration curve calculated by weighted linear regression (weight = 1/x2) was used for calculation 
of sample concentration. 
Pre-study validation and bio-analytical report are provided.  
Study sample analysis: Accuracy and precision of the back-calculated concentrations of the calibration curve 
standard points during the study were 98.75 to 100.74% and 1.23 to 2.33%, respectively. The between run 
precision and accuracy of quality control samples were 1.01 to 3.72% and 98.25 to 104.12 %, respectively. 
Composition of analytical runs has been described.  
Incurred sample reanalysis was conducted on 386 samples (11.14% of 3466 samples). 96.89% (374/386) of 
concentrations obtained by reanalysis were found within 20% of their mean initial value. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 30/38 
 
 
 
The maximum study sample storage period from first blood draw (Nov 20, 2018) to last sample analysis (Jan 
19, 2019) was 60 days. The long-term stability data of abiraterone in human plasma covers 62 days at -
20±5°C and at -70±10°C.  
All concentration values below limit of quantification were set as zero for PK analysis. 
Reanalysis of study samples: A total of 3466 study samples were received and analysed in 53 valid analytical 
runs. 116 samples (3.35%) were haemolysed.  44 (1.27%) samples were re-assayed for analytical reasons 
(sample outside assay range, inconsistent internal standard area response, poor chromatography). 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Primary variables were Cmax and AUC0-72.  
Secondary pharmacokinetic parameters determined were AUC0-∞, Tmax, residual area, Kel, and t½. 
Statistical methods 
The pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated from the plasma concentration vs. time profile.  Statistical 
comparison of the PK of the two formulations was carried out using PROC GLM of SAS® Version 9.2 (SAS 
Institute Inc., USA) to assess the bioequivalence between test and reference formulations. 
PK parameters for each individual were tabulated and graphically presented. Actual time-points of the sample 
collection are used for the calculation of PK parameters. All concentration values below the lower limit of 
quantification are set to zero for the pharmacokinetic and statistical calculations. Individual AUC parameters 
were calculated using the linear trapezoidal rule. ANOVA was performed on the ln-transformed Cmax, AUC0-72 
and AUC0-∞. Non-parametric analysis of tmax was performed on untransformed data. ANOVA model included 
sequences, subjects nested within sequence, period and treatment as fixed factors.  
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
For AUC0-72 and if for Cmax the within-subject variability of reference product was <= 30%, the acceptance 
range is 80.00-125.00% for Abiraterone.  
If it was demonstrated that the within-subject variability of reference product for Cmax is >30% as assessed 
using replicate design, then widened acceptance criteria for Cmax would be considered. 
Results 
Table 3. Pharmacokinetic parameters for abiraterone (non-transformed values; 500 mg dosage 
strength), N=48 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
Reference  
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
CV% 
geometric mean 
AUC(0-72h) 
(ng*hr/mL) 
484.71 
401.20 
± 285.51 
501.63 
60.0% 
400.04 
 CV% 
± 334.31 
68.5% 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 31/38 
 
 
 
Test  
Reference  
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
CV% 
geometric mean 
AUC(0-∞) 
(ng*hr/mL) 
Cmax  
(ng/mL) 
471.75 
414.78 
90.33 
71.49 
±283.21 
488.14 
58.9% 
413.80 
±69.76 
77.2% 
94.15 
73.53 
 CV% 
±337.97 
67.4% 
±73.03 
77.6% 
Tmax* (hrs) 
2.00  
0.50 - 5.00 
2.00  
1.00- 5.00 
AUC0-72h    
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 hours  
AUC0-∞   
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
Cmax  
Tmax  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 4. Statistical analysis for abiraterone (ln-transformed values, 500 mg dosage strength), 
N=48 
Geometric Mean 
Pharmacokinetic 
Ratio 
Confidence 
parameter 
Test/Reference 
Intervals (%) 
CV%* 
Within subject 
variability of 
reference product 
(%) 
AUC(0-72h)  
AUC(0-∞) 
Cmax  
(%) 
100.29 
100.24 
97.22 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
92.95 - 108.20 
32.48  
n.a 
93.06 – 107.96 
31.71 
n.a. 
88.02 - 107.39 
43.30 
40.36 (N=47) 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 32/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for abiraterone after administration of Test 
and Reference formulations (500 mg) to healthy subjects (N=48). 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 33/38 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Semi-logarithmic plot of mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for abiraterone after 
administration of Test and Reference formulations (500 mg) to healthy subjects (N=48). 
Safety data 
A total of thirteen AEs were reported during the clinical phase of the study which were mild in severity. Nine 
(headache, bradycardia, high serum alkaline phosphatase, low haemoglobin, high SGPT, throat pain) AEs 
were related to study drug and four (neck pain, high eosinophil count, high WBC count, high serum 
potassium) AEs were unrelated to study drug. All AEs were resolved except the AEs high WBC count, high 
SGPT and high serum alkaline phosphatase. Three subjects with one AE each (high WBC count, high SGPT 
and high serum alkaline phosphatase) were considered as lost to follow up. 
No serious AEs were observed during the entire clinical phase of the study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies Abiraterone Accord is considered bioequivalent with Zytiga. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 34/38 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted two single dose four-period replicate crossover design 
bioequivalence studies under fasting conditions to demonstrate essential similarity with Zytiga 250 mg 
uncoated tablets and Zytiga 500 mg film-coated tablets by Janssen-Cilag International NV, Belgium.  
The recommended dose of Abiraterone acetate is 1000 mg as a single daily dose that must not be taken with 
food, therefore, the conduct of bioequivalence study under fasting conditions is justified. One bioequivalence 
study was performed for each strength applied in order to demonstrate equivalence directly between 
respective test and reference dosage strength and formulations in vivo. The applicant had suspected high 
intra-subject variability in abiraterone absorption and therefore proposed widened BE acceptance range for 
Cmax. As the request for wider acceptance interval is prospectively specified in the study protocols and studies 
designed accordingly (i.e. replicate 4-period crossover design), the widening of acceptance criteria is 
considered acceptable. 
Overall design of BE studies is acceptable and in line with pharmacokinetic properties of abiraterone. Both 
studies were conducted under standardised conditions. The study populations were chosen according to the 
guidelines. As the parent compound, abiraterone acetate, is almost immediately metabolised after oral 
administration hence, the demonstration of bioequivalence based on the active metabolite, abiraterone is 
acceptable. The sampling period was sufficient, the sampling time schedule and wash-out period were 
adequate taking into account the tmax and elimination half-life of abiraterone. The sampling schedule was 
sufficient for immediate release formulation and reached up to 72 hours. Data regarding the test and 
reference products were generally adequate, the country of origin for purchasing the reference batches and 
the information about the county of origin of the reference product batches provided. 
Bioanalytical methods had satisfactory performance and were adequately validated. The pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were appropriate for single-dose studies.  
In both studies, the 90% confidence intervals for ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax, AUC0-72 
and AUC0-∞ were within the conventional bioequivalence range of 80.00% to 125.00%. The pharmacokinetic 
variables determined for abiraterone were comparable between test and reference products. Both 
formulations were relatively well tolerated. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies, Abiraterone Accord 250mg tablets and 500mg film-coated 
tablets are considered bioequivalent with Zytiga 250 mg tablets and Zytiga 500 mg film-coated tablets by 
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Belgium. The application is approvable from the clinical perspective.  
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 35/38 
 
 
 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
List of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Hepatotoxicity  
Cardiac disorders  
Osteoporosis including osteoporosis-related fractures  
Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy  
Allergic alveolitis  
Increased exposure with food 
Important potential risks 
Anaemia  
Cataract  
Missing information 
Use in patients with active or symptomatic viral hepatitis  
Drug-drug interaction (CYP2D6) 
Use  in  patients  with  moderate/severe  hepatic  impairment  and  chronic 
liver disease  
Use in patients with severe renal impairment  
Use in patients with heart disease as evidenced by myocardial infarction, 
or arterial thrombotic events in the past 6 months, severe or unstable 
angina, or New York Heart Association Class III or IV heart disease or 
cardiac ejection fraction measurement of <50%  
Pharmacovigilance plan  
There are no on-going or planned additional pharmacovigilance activities.  
Routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed 
indication(s). 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.1 is acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 36/38 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the basis of 
a bridging report making reference to Solifenacin succinate 5/10mg film-coated tablets and ZYTIGA 250/500 
mg tablets. The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of Abiraterone acetate 250 and 500 mg tablets. The reference 
product Zytiga is indicated for metastatic prostate cancer. No nonclinical studies have been provided for this 
application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance was 
presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data 
on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; 
the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was 
considered sufficient. 
Two bioequivalence studies form the pivotal basis with a randomized, two-treatment, four-period, two-
sequence, single-dose, crossover design in healthy, adult, male volunteers under fasting conditions. The 
study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with 
the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as 
wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical 
methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Abiraterone Accord met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Zytiga in both studies. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the 
parameters AUC0-72, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 
80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 37/38 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Abiraterone Accord is favourable in the following indication: 
Abiraterone Accord is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for: 
• 
• 
• 
the treatment of newly diagnosed high risk metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in 
adult men in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) 
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in adult men who are 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated 
the treatment of mCRPC in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy regimen. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, section 
4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
Assessment report  
EMA/174959/2021 
Page 38/38 
 
 
 
