Summary of risk management plan for Abiraterone Mylan (Abiraterone acetate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Abiraterone Mylan. The RMP details 
important risks of abiraterone, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about abiraterone's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Abiraterone  Mylan’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Abiraterone  Mylan  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Abiraterone 
Mylan’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Abiraterone  Mylan  is  authorised  for    the  treatment  of  newly  diagnosed  high  risk  metastatic 
hormone  sensitive  prostate  cancer  (mHSPC)  in  adult  men  in  combination  with  androgen 
deprivation  therapy  (ADT);  the  treatment  of  metastatic  castration  resistant  prostate  cancer 
(mCRPC) in adult men who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen 
deprivation therapy in whom chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated; and the treatment of 
mCRPC in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a docetaxel-based chemotherapy 
regimen. It contains abiraterone as the active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Abiraterone  Mylan’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Abiraterone  Mylan’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, 
under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/abiraterone-mylan 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Abiraterone Mylan, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 
 
 
 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Abiraterone Mylan is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Abiraterone  Mylan  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered 
to patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns 
for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Abiraterone Mylan. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.). 
Table 1: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Hepatotoxicity (Liver toxicity) 
•  Cardiac disorders (Heart Problems) 
•  Osteoporosis including osteoporosis-related fractures (A 
condition in which bones become weak and brittle and 
can lead to fractures) 
 
•  Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy (Breakdown of muscle 
tissue) 
•  Allergic alveolitis (Inflammation of air sacs (alveoli)) 
• 
Increased exposure with food (Taking the tablets with 
food increases systemic exposure to abiraterone) 
Important potential risks 
•  Anaemia (Decrease in the haemoglobin level) 
•  Cataract (Clouding of the lens) 
•  Drug-drug interaction (CYP2D6) 
Missing information 
•  Use in patients with active or symptomatic viral hepatitis 
(Use  in  patients  with  viral  liver  infection  or  having 
symptoms of liver infection) 
•  Use in patients with moderate/severe hepatic impairment 
and chronic liver disease (Use in patients with moderate or 
severe liver problems) 
•  Use  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (Use  in 
patients with severe kidney problems) 
•  Use  in  patients  with  heart  disease  as  evidenced  by 
myocardial infarction, or arterial thrombotic events in the 
past  6  months,  severe  or  unstable  angina,  or  New  York 
Heart Association Class III or IV heart disease or cardiac 
ejection fraction measurement of <50% 
II.B Summary of important risks. 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of  
Abiraterone Mylan. 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Abiraterone Mylan.  
 
