Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Abiraterone  Accord 
(abiraterone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Abiraterone Accord. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  Abiraterone  Accord,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Abiraterone  Accord’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Abiraterone  Accord’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Abiraterone Accord should 
be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Abiraterone  Accord  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Abiraterone 
Accord’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Abiraterone Accord is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for: 
 
the  treatment  of  newly  diagnosed  high  risk  metastatic  hormone  sensitive  prostate  cancer 
(mHSPC) in adult men in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) 
 
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in adult men who are 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after  failure of androgen deprivation therapy  in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated 
 
the treatment of mCRPC in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a docetaxel-
based chemotherapy regimen. 
It contains abiraterone acetate as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Abiraterone  Accord’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Abiraterone  Accord’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, 
under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/abiraterone-accord 
 
 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important  risks  of  Abiraterone  Accord  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Abiraterone Accord’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The  medicine’s  legal status  - the way a  medicine  is supplied to the  patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed during  signal  management activity,  so that immediate action can  be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Abiraterone Accord is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks  of  Abiraterone  Accord  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Abiraterone Accord. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information 
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on 
the long-term use of the medicine). 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risks 
  Hepatotoxicity  
  Cardiac disorders  
  Osteoporosis including osteoporosis-related fractures  
  Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy  
  Allergic alveolitis  
 
Increased exposure with food  
Important potential risks 
  Anaemia  
  Cataract  
  Drug-drug interaction (CYP2D6)  
Missing information 
  Use  in  patients  with  active  or  symptomatic  viral 
hepatitis  
  Use 
in  patients  with  moderate/severe  hepatic 
impairment and chronic liver disease  
  Use in patients with severe renal impairment  
  Use  in  patients  with  heart  disease  as  evidenced  by 
myocardial  infarction,  or  arterial  thrombotic  events  in 
the  past  6  months,  severe  or  unstable  angina,  or  New 
York Heart Association Class III or IV heart disease or 
cardiac ejection fraction measurement of <50%  
II.B  Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Abiraterone Accord. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Abiraterone Accord. 
 
 
 
