Amsterdam, 30 January 2020 
EMA/116095/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Abraxane  
International non-proprietary name: paclitaxel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000778/II/0097 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status of this report and steps taken for the assessment 
Current 
Description 
step¹ 
Start of procedure: 
Planned 
Actual Date  Need for 
date 
16 Sep 2019 
discussion² 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
21 Oct 2019 
29 Aug 2019 
CHMP members comments 
04 Nov 2019  04 Nov 2019 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
07 Nov 2019  06 Nov 2019 
Report 
Request for supplementary information 
14 Nov 2019  14 Nov 2019 
(RSI) 
  CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
15 Jan 2020 
15 Jan 2020 
CHMP members comments 
20 Jan 2020 
n/a 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
23 Jan 2020 
n/a 
Report 
Opinion 
30 Jan 2020 
30 Jan 2020 
¹ Tick the box corresponding to the applicable step – do not delete any of the steps. If not applicable, 
add n/a instead of the date. 
² Criteria for PRAC plenary discussion: proposal for update of SmPC/PL, introduction of or changes to 
imposed conditions or additional risk minimisation measures (except for generics aligning with the 
originator medicinal product), substantial changes to the pharmacovigilance plan (relating to additional 
pharmacovigilance activities, except for generics adapting aligning with the originator medicinal 
product), substantial disagreement between the Rapporteur and other PRAC members, at the request 
of the Rapporteur, any other PRAC member, the Chair or EMA. 
Criteria for CHMP plenary discussion: substantial disagreement between the Rapporteur and other 
CHMP members and/or at the request of the Rapporteur or the Chair. 
Declarations 
 The assessor confirms that reference to ongoing assessments or development plans for other 
products is not included in this assessment report, including in the Product Information, if any.
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 2/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 6 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 6 
4. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
4.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 9 
4.2. Clinical pharmacology aspects .............................................................................. 10 
4.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 10 
4.2.2. Methods – analysis of data submitted ................................................................. 10 
4.2.3. Results ........................................................................................................... 11 
4.2.4. Discussion ...................................................................................................... 14 
4.3. Clinical efficacy and safety aspects ....................................................................... 15 
4.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 15 
4.3.2. Methods – analysis of data submitted ................................................................. 17 
4.3.3. Results ........................................................................................................... 27 
4.3.4. Discussion ...................................................................................................... 79 
5. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 83 
5.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 83 
6. Assessment of the responses to the request for supplementary 
information ............................................................................................... 84 
6.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 84 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 3/92 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
AESI 
ALT 
ANC 
AST 
ATC 
AUC 
AUCt 
AUC24   
AUC∞ 
BLQ 
CI 
CL 
Cmax 
CNS 
CR 
CT 
CTCAE   
CYP 
DCR 
DDS 
DLT 
DOR 
ECG 
Ecrf 
EU 
FDA 
GCP 
HSCT 
HUS 
ICF 
ICH 
IEC 
IP 
IV 
IRB 
IRT 
LVSF 
MedDRA 
MIBG 
MRI 
MTD 
MUGA   
NCI 
ORR 
PD 
PFS 
PK 
PR 
PT 
RECIST  
RP2D 
SAE 
SAP 
SD 
SMC 
SMQ 
SOC 
λz 
adverse event 
adverse event of special interest 
alanine aminotransferase 
absolute neutrophil count 
aspartate aminotransferase 
anatomical therapeutic chemical 
area under the blood concentration-time curve 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to the last quantifiable 
time point 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 24 hours 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero extrapolated to infinity 
below the limit of quantitation 
confidence interval 
clearance 
peak (maximum) whole blood concentration 
central nervous system 
complete response 
computed tomography 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
cytochrome P450 
disease control rate 
dose-determining set 
dose-limiting toxicity 
duration of response 
electrocardiogram 
electronic case report form 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
Good Clinical Practice 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
haemolytic-uremic syndrome 
informed consent form 
International Council for Harmonisation 
Independent Ethics Committee 
investigational product 
intravenous 
Institutional Review Board 
integrated response technology 
left ventricular shortening fraction 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine 
magnetic resonance imaging 
maximum tolerated dose 
multi-gated acquisition 
National Cancer Institute 
overall response rate 
progressive disease 
progression-free survival 
pharmacokinetic 
partial response 
preferred term 
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 
Recommended Phase 2 Dose 
serious adverse event 
statistical analysis plan 
standard deviation 
Safety Monitoring Committee 
standardised MedDRA query 
system organ class 
terminal phase rate constant 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 4/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAE 
t½ 
tmax 
ULN 
US 
Vss 
Vz 
WBC 
WHO 
WHODD 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
terminal elimination half-life 
time to maximum concentration 
upper limit of normal 
United States 
volume of distribution at the steady state 
volume of distribution based on area 
white blood cell 
World Health Organization 
World Health Organization drug dictionary 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 5/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Celgene Europe BV submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 28 June 2019 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
and IIIB 
Update of sections 4.2, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC based on the results of study ABI-007-PST-
001. This was a phase 1/2, multicenter, open-label, dose-finding study to assess the safety, tolerability 
and efficacy of weekly Abraxane in paediatric patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumours, listed 
in the PIP, submitted in order to fulfil Article 46. The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. The MAH 
took the opportunity to make minor editorial changes to the Annex II and to the Labelling. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included (an) EMA Decision(s) 
P/0257/2018 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0257/2018 was completed. 
The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance for the PIP P/0257/2018. 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The variation to update the Summary of Product Characteristics with new information on 
pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety in the paediatric population is recommended for approval. 
The benefit-risk balance of Abraxane remains positive. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA 
new quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance 
and IIIB 
data 
Update of sections 4.2, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC based on the results of study ABI-007-PST-
001. This was a phase 1/2, multicenter, open-label, dose-finding study to assess the safety, tolerability 
and efficacy of weekly abraxane in paediatric patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumours, listed 
in the PIP, submitted in order to fulfil Article 46. The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. The MAH 
took the opportunity to make minor editorial changes to the Annex II and to the Labelling. 
 is recommended for approval. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 6/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annexes I, II, IIIA and IIIB are 
recommended. 
Paediatric data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/0257/2018 and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 7/92 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 8/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Scientific discussion 
4.1.  Introduction 
About the product 
nab-Paclitaxel (also called Abraxane® or ABI-007) is a protein formulation of a noncrystalline, 
amorphous form of paclitaxel in an insoluble particle state. Paclitaxel is an anti-microtubule agent that 
has a broad spectrum of activity against human cancers. nab-Paclitaxel was designed to improve the 
chemotherapeutic effects of paclitaxel by exploiting endogenous transport pathways to deliver higher 
doses of paclitaxel to the tumour and to eliminate the solvent (Cremophor® EL )-related 
hypersensitivity and other toxicities associated with paclitaxel injections amongst others due to the 
ethanol vehicle. 
In adults, nab-paclitaxel is approved in the following indications: 
−  As monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients who have failed 
first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline containing therapy 
is not indicated. 
− 
− 
o  Posology: 260 mg/m2 IV over 30 minutes once every 3 weeks 
In combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. 
o  Posology: 125 mg/m2 (followed immediately by gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2) on Days 1, 8, 
and 15 of each 28-day cycle 
In combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation 
therapy. 
o  Posology: 100 mg/m2 on Days 1, 8, and 15 in combination with carboplatin (AUC = 6) on 
Day 1, every 21 days 
Safety experiences in Phase 1 studies in adults with advanced solid tumours showed the following 
dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs): keratitis, blurred vision, sensory neuropathy, stomatitis, and Grade 4 
neutropaenia. In general, haematologic toxicities were not important dose-limiting events; no life-
threatening neutropaenic infections and no Grade 4 anaemia or thrombocytopaenia were reported. The 
most frequently (>50%) reported toxicities were all expected for this therapeutic drug class, namely, 
fatigue, myalgia, nausea, alopecia, and stomatitis. The most common clinically significant adverse 
reactions associated with the use of nab-paclitaxel are neutropaenia, peripheral neuropathy, 
arthralgia/myalgia, and gastrointestinal disorders. 
Regulatory background 
The Paediatric Investigational Plan (PIP) of nab-paclitaxel which included three clinical studies in the 
treatment of paediatric solid malignant tumour and chemotherapy-naïve metastatic melanoma (EMEA-
011308-PIP01-12) was approved by EMA on 26 Apr 2013 (P/0116/2013). The PIP was twice modified 
with key changes noted below: 
−  Modification 01 (EMEA-001308-PIP01-12-M01) – removed melanoma from PIP indication following 
results of the Phase 3 CA033 melanoma study in adults and deferred the PIP completion date to 
December 2024; 
−  Modification 02 (EMEA-001308-PIP01-12-M02) – results of ABI-007-PST-001 (PST-001) 
demonstrated a lack of efficacy of nab-paclitaxel monotherapy in paediatric population. Based on 
these results, PDCO agreed to stop further paediatric development due to lack of efficacy. As a 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 9/92 
 
 
 
consequence, the development of paediatric-dose vials and two subsequent paediatric clinical 
studies were removed from the PIP. 
Following the approval of the PIP modification 02, a request for a full compliance check on the PIP was 
submitted to EMA on 16 Jul 2018. The PDCO confirmed that the available evidence can be considered 
conclusive enough to stop the paediatric development and that all paediatric commitments for nab-
paclitaxel have been fulfilled. 
The current Type II variation application is an update of the EU SmPC to reflect the results of the ABI-
007-PST-001 study conducted in compliance with the agreed PIP. 
4.2.  Clinical pharmacology aspects 
4.2.1.  Introduction 
The ABI-007-PST-001 study was a Phase 1/2 study that was designed to establish the recommended 
dose of nab-paclitaxel in the paediatric population and to determine its clinical activity in three distinct 
paediatric solid tumor types (Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma). Patients in 
the study were 1 to 24 years old, with most patients in the age categories of 2 to 11 years (50%) and 
12 to 17 years (46%). 
4.2.2.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Pharmacokinetics 
The ABI-007-PST-001 study consisted of two phases. Phase 1 portion of the study was a rolling, 6 dose 
levels, escalation part designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) /recommended 
phase II dose (RP2D), safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) parameters of nab-paclitaxel in 
paediatric patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumors who progressed on standard therapy or for 
whom no standard anticancer therapy exists. 
Six dose levels of nab-paclitaxel were tested in Phase 1: 120, 150, 180, 210, 240, and 270 mg/m2, 
with a total of 64 patients enrolled in these 6 cohorts. Of these, 37 patients constituted the dose-
determining set (DDS) (including 6 patients in each dose level except for 270 mg/m2, which included 7 
patients). Dense PK sampling was performed. 
The Phase 2 portion enrolled additional patients at the RP2D (240 mg/m2 in patients weighing > 10 kg 
and 11.5 mg/kg in patients weighing ≤ 10 kg) into one of three solid tumor groups using a Simon two-
stage minimax design for each group of up to 23 patients for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and 
rhabdomyosarcoma groups. During phase II sparse sampling for PK was performed. 
The PK of nab-paclitaxel in paediatric patients with solid tumors was examined using non-
compartmental analysis based on dense samples collection during phase I. Pharmacokinetic 
parameters included the maximum observed concentration in blood (Cmax), area under the blood 
concentration-time curve (AUC), clearance (CL), and volume of distribution (Vss). If the data allowed, 
main PK parameters (CL and Vss) were summarized by age group as appropriate (eg, < 2 years, 2 to 
< 6 years, 6 to < 12 years, and 12 to ≤ 24 years). Data from the Phase 1 and 2 portions were 
analyzed together for this endpoint. 
Population PK analysis was performed using nonlinear mixed effect modeling. Concentration data 
obtained from both dense and sparse PK sampling were combined to develop the population 
pharmacokinetic model (popPK). Effects of age and body size on nab-paclitaxel PK were assessed. 
Other relevant covariates for the main PK parameters were also identified. The between-patient 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 10/92 
 
 
 
variability for PK parameters was estimated, as appropriate. The relationship between systemic drug 
exposure and selected efficacy and toxicity endpoints could be explored. 
The popPK model was developed with NONMEM software using standard methodology in three stages, 
including structural model selection, covariate analysis, and model evaluation with goodness-of-fit 
criteria, visual predictive checks, and the bootstrap resampling approach. 
CHMP comment: 
The planned non-compartmental and POP-PK methods to establish PK are in general acceptable. 
However, no validation, bioanalytical, statistical or POP-PK reports were submitted. The applicant 
should submit these reports, before definite conclusions can be drawn (LoQ, OC) 
4.2.3.  Results 
Phase I (non-compartmental analysis): 
Individual concentration values of paclitaxel were reported and summarized with descriptive statistics. 
Mean whole blood concentration-time profiles of paclitaxel for Phase 1, following a single IV infusion of 
nab-paclitaxel over approximately 30 minutes, are presented on semi-logarithmic and linear scales 
(top and bottom, respectively) in the figure below. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 11/92 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Mean (+SD) Whole Blood Concentration-time Profiles of Paclitaxel Following a 
Single 30-minute IV Infusion of nab-Paclitaxel in Pediatric Patients With 
Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors (Semi-logarithmic and Linear Plots) ─ 
Cycle 1, Day 1 (Phase 1) 
After a single 30-minute IV infusion of nab-paclitaxel in pediatric patients, mean whole blood 
concentration-time profiles of paclitaxel were characterized by an initial rapid decline followed by 
slower multi-exponential declines and remained above the LLOQ (5 ng/mL) of the assay up to the last 
sample collected (ie, the planned last was 24 hours for patients 2 to < 6 years and 72 hours for 
patients >= 6 years). All pediatric patients had solid recurrent or refractory tumors. Descriptive 
statistics of non-compartmental PK parameters of paclitaxel in whole blood are presented in the table 
below. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 12/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Summary Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Whole Blood Paclitaxel Following a 
Single 30-minute IV Infusion of nab-Paclitaxel in Pediatric Patients With 
Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors ─ Cycle 1, Day 1 (Phase 1) 
The PK of paclitaxel following a single 30-minute infusion of nab-paclitaxel at dose levels of 120 to 270 
mg/m2 were determined. Mean AUC24 of whole blood paclitaxel ranged from 6392 to 11167 ng.h/mL 
when dose levels were increased from 120 to 270 mg/m2. Mean AUC∞ of whole blood paclitaxel 
ranged from 8867 to 14361 ng.h/mL when dose levels were increased from 120 to 270 mg/m2. The 
mean peak whole blood concentration of paclitaxel ranged from 3488 to 8078 ng/mL when dose levels 
were increased from 120 to 270 mg/m2. Dose-normalized peak drug exposure values were comparable 
across the dose range studied; however, dose-normalized total drug exposure values were only 
comparable across 120 to 240 mg/m2 with lower dose-normalized AUC24 and AUC∞ at the 270 ng/m2 
dose level. These results suggest a less than dose-proportional increase extent of exposure at the 
highest dose level tested. Median times of peak whole blood paclitaxel concentrations were observed at 
the end of the 30-minute IV infusion. Whole blood paclitaxel volume of distribution, CL, and half-life 
remained constant over the 120 to 240 mg/m2 dose range, but they increased at the 270 mg/m2 dose 
level. The BSA-normalized whole blood paclitaxel volume of distribution increased at the 270 mg/m2 
dose level (304 L/m2 and 676 L/m2 for Vss and Vz, respectively) relative to the 120 to 240 mg/m2 dose 
levels, where paclitaxel mean volume of distribution ranged from 84.9 to 164 L/m2 (Vss) and 213 to 
344 L/m2 (Vz), respectively. Clearance normalized to BSA remained constant over the dose range 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 13/92 
 
 
 
 
studied, with the exception of the highest dose level tested where a slightly higher BSA-normalized CL 
was observed (ie, 12.5 to 17.8 L/h/m2 from 120 to 240 mg/m2 compared to 21.8 L/h/m2 for 270 
mg/m2). Mean paclitaxel half-life ranged from 11.0 to 17.9 hours over the 120 to 240 mg/m2 dose 
levels. At the highest dose level of 270 mg/m2, paclitaxel half-life was slightly longer (20.5 hours). 
Taken together, these results are consistent with saturable elimination at higher doses, as well as the 
deep distribution of paclitaxel that was previously observed in adult patients with advanced or 
metastatic solid tumors. 
CHMP comment: 
Pharmacokinetic parameters using a non-compartmental approach have been established in children 
between 2-18 years. Presented data are in line with the wording proposed in the SPC, section 5.2 
However, as validation, bioanalytical, statistical or POP-PK reports are not available at this moment, no 
definite conclusions on the acceptability of the text proposal can be made. 
Phase I and II (POP-PK): 
A three-compartment model with saturable elimination resulted in the best quality of fit of whole blood 
concentration-time profiles of nab-paclitaxel. The population PK model was first customized by 
including an allometric function on PK parameters to take into account the BSA of patients. A thorough 
covariate analysis within NONMEM (stepwise forward additive approach) was performed to identify 
sources of variability in the population. None of the tested covariates were retained in the final 
population PK model of nab-paclitaxel. Final population PK parameters of nab-paclitaxel for maximum 
elimination rate from the central compartment (VMEL), concentration in the central compartment at 
50% of VMEL (KMEL), volume of distribution of the central compartment (V1), intercompartmental CL 
between the central compartment and the first peripheral compartment (Q2), volume of distribution of 
the first peripheral compartment (V2), intercompartmental CL between the central compartment and 
the second peripheral compartment (Q3), and volume of distribution of the second peripheral 
compartment (V3) were 31983 (μg/h), 951 (μg/L), 11.8 (L), 22.4 (L/h), 545 (L), 34.8 (L/h), and 45.3 
(L), respectively. The estimated allometric exponent for VMEL, Q2, and Q3 was 1.12. The estimated 
allometric exponent for V1, V2, and V3 was 0.888. As previously described in adults (Chen, 2014), the 
distribution of paclitaxel to tissues was not only rapid, but also extensive, with deep tissue penetration 
as demonstrated by the finding that the volume of the two peripheral compartments (545 and 45.3 L) 
far exceeded the total body water volume (approximately 40 L). The between-subject variability was 
determined for VMEL, V1 and Q2. Shrinkage associated with VMEL, V1, and Q2 was less than 5%. The 
final population PK model robustly described nab-paclitaxel concentrations (according to goodness of 
fit, VPC, and individual observed versus model-predicted concentration-time profiles). 
CHMP comment: 
The POP-PK results seem to be in agreement with previously submitted population pharmacokinetic 
(popPK) meta-analysis (ABI-007-CP-001). However, a complete assessment is not possible as the 
POP-PK report was not submitted. (LoQ, OC) 
4.2.4.  Discussion 
The new data on pharmacokinetics from the ABI-007-PST-001 study in the paediatric population is 
used to update the SmPC, section 5.2. The proposed wording is in general in line with the results. 
However, as validation, bioanalytical, statistical or POP-PK reports are not available at this moment no 
definite conclusions can be made and some additional minor changes to the text should be made (see 
SmPC assessment below). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 14/92 
 
 
 
4.3.  Clinical efficacy and safety aspects 
4.3.1.  Introduction 
Paediatric malignancies 
Solid tumours account for 60% of all paediatric malignant neoplasms and the spectrum of tumour 
types observed in children differs substantially from that in adults regarding origin and histologic 
subtype, etiologic characteristics, responses to treatment, and clinical outcomes. Paediatric 
malignancies are most commonly of primary central nervous system (CNS) or haematopoietic origin. 
Specifically, these comprise CNS tumours; neuroblastoma; soft-tissue sarcoma, including 
rhabdomyosarcoma and non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue tumours; Wilm’s tumour; bone tumours 
such as osteosarcoma and Ewing’s sarcoma; retinoblastoma; and miscellaneous tumours such as 
hepatoblastoma, germ cell tumours, and melanoma. 
Although childhood cancer is rare and the 5-year survival rate is relatively high, it is the second leading 
cause of childhood death in developed countries. Therefore, effective treatment options are needed. 
Paediatric taxane use 
Among adults, taxanes are one of the most powerful and most commonly used anticancer drugs. They 
show a wide range of activity in malignancies such as breast, ovarian, and lung cancer. In paediatric 
oncology, data are quite limited. Clinical trials with paclitaxel or docetaxel show limited efficacy and 
significant toxicity (neurological, mucous, haematological and dermatologic). In the study protocol the 
Applicant describes the studies with taxanes in children (Appendix 16.1.1: Table 2 and Table 3). At the 
time of study initiation, taxanes have been studied in children in nine Phase 1 and five Phase 2 studies. 
Off label use of docetaxel for Ewing’s sarcoma, osteosarcoma, and other recurrent/refractory solid 
tumours is described. 
Rationale for use of nab-paclitaxel in paediatric tumours 
Although the efficacy and safety of nab-paclitaxel have been evaluated in adult patients with various 
cancers, there had been no human studies on the effects of nab-paclitaxel in the paediatric age group 
prior to the initiation of Study PST-001. The Applicant describes that single agent nab-paclitaxel has 
displayed dose-dependent cytotoxicity in several paediatric solid-tumour cell lines and anti-tumour 
activity in rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma, and Ewing’s sarcoma mouse xenograft models. 
According to the Applicant, these preclinical results suggest that nab-paclitaxel, delivered at a higher 
dose than conventional paclitaxel, may achieve clinical benefits in paediatric diseases where 
conventional paclitaxel is not effective. The Applicant choose to investigate recurrent or refractory solid 
tumour in the phase 1 portion of the trial and 3 tumour types in the phase 2 portion, i.e. Ewing’s 
sarcoma, neuroblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma. These tumour types will be described in more detail 
below. 
Although brain tumours such as gliomas and medulloblastomas frequently occur in the paediatric 
population, patients with brain tumours were not enrolled in Study PST-001 because nab-paclitaxel 
was not shown to cross the blood-brain-barrier and there are no data to indicate that nab-paclitaxel 
has efficacy in primary or metastatic brain tumours. At the time of Study PST-001 initiation, nab-
paclitaxel was still under consideration for the treatment of melanoma in both the adult and paediatric 
populations, hence, the inclusion of melanoma in the Phase 1 portion of the study. Since that time, the 
development of nab-paclitaxel for the melanoma indication has been discontinued due to lack of an 
overall survival benefit with nab-paclitaxel compared with the standard of care chemotherapy regimen 
(dacarbazine). No patients with melanoma were enrolled in study PST-001. 
Ewing’s sarcoma 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 15/92 
 
 
 
Ewing’s sarcoma is a rare malignancy that most often presents as an undifferentiated primary bone 
tumour, but can also present in soft tissue. The peak incidence is between the age of 10 and 20 years 
(70% of patients are <20 years). Ewing’s sarcoma most often arises in the long bones of the 
extremities and the bones of the pelvis. Primary bone tumours are responsible for 6 percent of all 
childhood cancers. Although rare, the Ewing’s sarcoma represent the second most common primary 
bone malignancy affecting children and adolescents, after osteosarcoma. Ewing’s sarcoma have a 
tendency towards early dissemination to the lungs, bone, and bone marrow, and are responsive to 
chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In data derived from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results (SEER) program of the National Cancer Institute (NCI), five-year survival rates rose between 
1975 and 2000 in all age groups, although the improvements were mostly observed in younger 
individuals. Five-year survival rates in those treated between 1993 and 2000 were >65%, whereas for 
those over the age of 15, they were <50%. 
Treatment of Ewing’s sarcoma combines both neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy along with local 
control measures, such as surgery and/or radiation. Commonly used chemotherapeutic agents, either 
as single agent or primarily in combination, include vincristine, dactinomycin, cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, etoposide, topotecan, irinotecan, and ifosfamide. Clinical activity has also been observed 
with paclitaxel and docetaxel. Ewing’s sarcoma was selected for Phase 2 of this study in Protocol 
Amendment 4, based on consideration of the available preclinical data for Ewing’s sarcoma and 
following review of the patients enrolled at the time in the Phase 1 portion. 
Neuroblastoma 
Neuroblastomas are malignant embryonal tumours of the neural crest cells and can arise anywhere 
throughout the sympathetic nervous system. The adrenal gland is the most common primary site 
(40%), followed by abdominal (25%), thoracic (15%), cervical (5%), and pelvic sympathetic ganglia 
(5%). Neuroblastoma metastasises to lymph nodes, bone marrow, cortical bone, dura, orbits, liver, 
and skin, and less frequently to pulmonary and intracranial sites. Neuroblastoma is almost exclusively 
a disease of children. It is the third most common childhood cancer, after leukaemia and brain 
tumours, and is the most common solid extracranial tumour in children. The 5-year survival rate for 
children aged 0 to 14 years is around 80%. 
Treatment strategies are based on risk groups, i.e. low-, intermediate-, or high-risk groups. For 
children with low-risk disease, surgery is the primary treatment modality when complete resection is 
feasible. For patients with low-risk tumours that cannot be completely resected or which have life-
threatening complications, chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy may be required. For children with 
intermediate-risk disease, a combined-modality approach that includes chemotherapy and surgical 
resection is standard. In high-risk neuroblastoma, substantial improvements have been seen with 
aggressive combined modality approaches. These generally include chemotherapy, surgical resection, 
high dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue, radiation therapy and biologic/immunologic therapy. 
These approaches have improved event free survival, but the majority of patients eventually relapse 
and die of their disease. Whenever possible, children with high-risk neuroblastoma should be enrolled 
in randomised controlled trials. Regarding chemotherapy, various combinations of cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, cisplatin, carboplatin, etoposide, topotecan, vincristine, temozolomide, and irinotecan 
have been used with response rates of 50% to 60%. Preclinical and clinical paediatric studies showed 
potential utility of chemotherapy with paclitaxel and docetaxel in neuroblastomas. 
Rhabdomyosarcoma 
Paediatric soft tissue sarcomas are a heterogeneous group of tumours that are presumed to arise from 
a primitive mesenchymal cell. These tumours can arise in many anatomic locations and can resemble 
fat, fibrous tissue, and muscle. Rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common soft tissue tumour of 
childhood and is responsible for approximately one-half of all soft tissue sarcomas in this age group. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 16/92 
 
 
 
However, they are rare, representing only 3-4% of paediatric cancers overall. Two-thirds of cases are 
diagnosed in children younger than 6 years of age. 
The treatment has evolved considerably over the past several decades. Using modern combined 
modality therapy, over 70% of children with localised disease can now be cured. Modern treatment 
includes chemotherapy for primary tumour cytoreduction and eradication of both macroscopic and 
microscopic metastatic disease; surgery, if feasible; and radiation therapy to control microscopic local 
residual disease. Standard chemotherapeutic agents include vincristine, dactinomycin, and 
cyclophosphamide. In the most high-risk disease, more intensive use of multi-agent chemotherapy 
with other agents is being evaluated in clinical trials. Although rhabdomyosarcoma is sensitive to first-
line therapy with a complete response achieved in the majority of patients, local recurrences still occur 
in a substantial number of patients. The prognosis for patients who recur or progress after first-line 
therapy is poor. However, patients who remain disease-free after 5 years have a good prognosis and 
relapses are uncommon; at 10 years, only 9% of these patients have late events. However, patients 
who have gross residual disease following initial surgery in unfavourable sites and those who initially 
present with metastatic disease more commonly experience relapse. Both docetaxel and paclitaxel 
have anti-tumour activity in paediatric rhabdomyosarcoma solid tumour models, as well as in Phase 1 
and 2 clinical studies; however, hypersensitivity and neurological reactions, among others, were dose-
limiting with paclitaxel, and clinical activity with taxanes was short-lived. 
4.3.2.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
GCP 
According to the Applicant the procedures set out in the study protocol pertaining to the conduct, 
evaluation, and documentation of this study were designed to ensure that Celgene, its authorised 
representative, and investigator abided by Good Clinical Practice (GCP), as described in the 
International Council for Harmonisation (ICH) E6 guideline and in accordance with the general ethical 
principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki. The study received approval from an IRB/IEC prior to 
commencement. The investigator conducted all aspects of this study in accordance with applicable 
national, state, and local laws of the pertinent regulatory authorities. 
Study design 
ABI-007-PST-001 (PST-001) is a phase 1/2 multi-center, open-label, dose-finding study to assess the 
safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and efficacy of nab-paclitaxel administered intravenously 
(IV) in paediatric patients and consists of 2 phases. 
Phase 1 design 
The primary objective of the Phase 1 (Figure 1) of the study was to determine the paediatric maximum 
tolerated dose (MTD) and the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) and characterise the safety and 
tolerability of nab-paclitaxel administered IV in patients ≥ 6 months and < 18 years old with recurrent 
or refractory solid tumours. Phase 1 started with a dose of 120 mg/m2 weekly, 80% of the maximum 
weekly dose investigated in adult patients (120 mg/m2). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 17/92 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Phase 1 study design 
Of note, patients younger than 6 months old were excluded from this study. The Applicant described 
that spontaneous regressions of cancers have been reported, especially in neuroblastoma and renal 
cell carcinoma, and may occur in the excluded patient population. The current practice is to adopt a 
conservative observation (wait-and-see) strategy for patients identified at 6 months of age with 
limited-stage disease. Furthermore, for more advanced paediatric tumours, surgical treatment (in the 
case of resectable tumours), radiotherapy, or combination of chemotherapy provide good results as 
first-line treatment. Therefore, it would have been highly unlikely that patients 0 to 6 months old 
would have been enrolled in the study while a wait-and-see strategy was recommended for limited-
stage diseases, and as effective treatment options were available for more advanced tumours; 
consequently, enrollment in a clinical study would not have been the preferred treatment option 
according to the Applicant. 
The Phase 1 portion was a rolling-6 dose escalation design to determine the MTD/RP2D, safety, 
tolerability, and PK parameters of nab-paclitaxel in paediatric patients with recurrent and refractory 
solid tumours that progressed on standard therapy or for which no standard anticancer therapy exists. 
The decision to dose-escalate or to declare an MTD/RP2D was determined by the safety monitoring 
committee (SMC) when clinical and laboratory safety data for the Dose-determining Set (DDS) of a 
given cohort was available for review. The SMC also determined the dose appropriate for the RP2D. 
The members of the SMC included the coordinating principal investigator, each country’s coordinating 
investigator, all investigators who recruited patients into the current cohort, the Celgene Clinical 
Research Physician, the Celgene Clinical Research Scientist, and the Product Safety Physician, or their 
corresponding designees. 
The DLT assessment period was defined as the first cycle including Cycle 2 Day 1 predose evaluations 
for patients > 10 kg and the first two cycles including Cycle 3 Day 1 predose evaluations for patients ≤ 
10 kg. A DLT was defined as investigational product (IP)-related AE(s) occurring during the DLT 
assessment period that led to treatment discontinuation or met one of the following criteria: 
−  Grade 3 or 4 non-haematologic toxicity (excluding transient transaminitis) 
−  Grade 3 or 4 nausea or vomiting that persisted > 5 days despite maximal anti-emetic treatment 
−  Grade 4 thrombocytopaenia or anaemia that persisted > 7 days or required transfusion > 7 days 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 18/92 
 
 
 
 
−  Grade 3 thrombocytopaenia with bleeding 
−  Grade 4 uncomplicated neutropaenia lasting > 7 days 
− 
Febrile neutropaenia with confirmed bacterial infection 
−  Grade 3 hematologic toxicity requiring treatment delay > 21 days 
Events that were considered DLTs based on their duration were considered a DLT if they started during 
the DLT assessment period. Events due to disease progression or to current underlying disease could 
not be considered DLTs. Events that were not considered related to IP could not be considered DLTs. If 
a patient experienced a DLT, the dose should have been delayed until resolution of the AE to Common 
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade 1. 
Up to 6 patients eligible for the dose-determining set (DDS) were treated at the first dose level, and 
subsequent dose escalation proceeded using the rolling-6 design. In each cohort, a minimum of 2 
patients treated and eligible for the DDS were required to make a dose decision. If no DLT was 
observed in the first 3 patients eligible for the DDS, the SMC may have decided to escalate the dose 
for the next cohort. An additional 3 patients (up to a total of 6 per cohort) may have been enrolled at 
the same dose while awaiting the DDS eligibility of 3 patients and SMC decision. If 1 DLT occurred 
prior to an SMC dose escalation decision, the cohort was required to enrol 6 patients. If one or fewer 
patients experienced a DLT in these 6 patients, the dose would be escalated in the next cohort, unless 
there were other safety considerations by the SMC. If more than 1 DLT occurred within the first dose 
level, a 1-dose level (100 mg/m2) would be evaluated. If two or more patients in a given cohort 
experienced a DLT at any time during enrollment, the MTD would have been exceeded and the 
previous lower dose would be declared the MTD. 
Phase 2 design 
The primary objective of the Phase 2 (Figure 2) of the study was to determine the antitumour activity 
assessed by the overall response rate (ORR) of nab-paclitaxel given at the RP2D in patients ≥ 6 
months and ≤ 24 years old with several discrete recurrent or refractory solid tumour types including 
Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma. The Phase 2 portion using a Simon two-
stage minimax design was conducted at the RP2D, 240 mg/m2, in patients weighing > 10 kg and 11.5 
mg/kg in patients weighing ≤ 10 kg. A Simon two-stage minimax design was used to limit nab-
paclitaxel exposure to 14 patients in each group without confirmation of some activity (≥ 2 patients) 
before moving forward with 9 additional patients in each group. The Simon two-stage minimax design 
was chosen to minimise the number of patients exposed to nab-paclitaxel if the true ORR was < 10% 
and allowed the trial to establish that an ORR > 10% was efficacious. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 19/92 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Phase 2 study design 
Study endpoints 
The primary endpoint of the Phase 1 portion was the incidence of DLTs and the incidence of treatment-
emergent adverse events (TEAEs). Adverse events were analysed in terms of TEAEs, which were 
defined as any AEs that began or worsened in severity on or after the start of study drug through 28 
days after the last dose of study drug. Adverse events were documented according to the NCI CTCAE 
version 4.0. For the categorisation of the AEs, the MedDRA version 20.0 was used and TEAEs were 
summarised by SOC and PT. 
The primary endpoint of the Phase 2 portion was the investigator-determined Overall Response Rate 
(ORR), which was the combined incidence of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR), 
confirmed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response was first met, based on Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. In the neuroblastoma group, the ORR was 
determined by RECIST and/or the Curie scale (MIBG response). If both assessment types had been 
performed on a given patient across the assessment time points, to be considered as a partial 
response for the ORR analysis, both methodologies should have shown no worse than stable disease 
and at least one method should have indicated CR or PR. A response was only considered complete if 
both methodologies indicated CR. 
The secondary endpoints for the Phase 1 portion were: 
−  PK parameters including the peak (maximum) whole blood concentration (Cmax), area under the 
blood concentration-time curve (AUC), clearance (CL), and volume of distribution (Vss) 
−  ORR 
The secondary endpoints for the Phase 2 portion were: 
−  Duration of Response (DOR) in patients with a confirmed objective CR or PR 
−  Disease Control Rate (DCR) was the percentage of patients with a confirmed objective CR or PR, or 
stable disease for at least 16 weeks 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 20/92 
 
 
 
 
−  Progression-free Survival (PFS) based on investigator assessment of response using RECIST 
version 1.1 guidelines. PFS was defined as the time from the date of first nab-paclitaxel dose until 
the data a PD was first observed or date of death (any cause), whichever occurred first. In the 
neuroblastoma group, the PFS was determined by RECIST and/or the Curie scale (MIBG response). 
−  Survival at 1 year 
−  The incidence of TEAEs 
−  Population PK parameters (e.g., CL and volume of distribution); data from the Phase 1 and 2 
portions were analysed together for this endpoint 
The exploratory endpoints for the entire study were: 
In the Phase 1 portion only, MIBG response using the Curie score in patients with neuroblastoma 
− 
−  Biomarker analysis prioritised after study completion, as informed by emerging data 
− 
In the Phase 2 portion only, bone marrow biopsy verification of confirmed CR in patients with 
neuroblastoma 
In- and exclusion criteria 
Key inclusion criteria 
1.  The patient was male or female; meeting the following age requirements at the time the informed 
consent document (and assent form, if applicable) was signed. 
a.  Phase 1: patient was ≥ 6 months to < 18 years of age. 
b.  Phase 2: patient was ≥ 6 months to ≤ 24 years of age. 
2.  The patient had a confirmed solid tumour diagnosis according to the following: 
a.  Phase 1: patient had a recurrent or refractory solid tumour that has progressed or did not 
respond to standard therapy, or for which no standard anticancer therapy exists. 
b.  Phase 2: patient had radiologically documented measurable disease by RECIST version 1.1 (for 
neuroblastoma, evaluable disease by MIBG/Curie score was also acceptable) in one of the 
following tumour types and had failed up to three lines of treatment. 
a.  Group 1: neuroblastoma (patients with bone marrow disease only were not permitted). 
b.  Group 2: rhabdomyosarcoma. 
c.  Group 3: Ewing’s sarcoma. 
3.  The patient had a Lansky/Karnofsky performance status score of ≥ 70%. 
4.  The patient had adequate serum chemistry levels, evidenced by the following laboratory values: 
a.  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST; SGOT), alanine aminotransferase (ALT; SGPT) ≤ 2.5 × 
upper limit of normal range (ULN). 
b.  Total bilirubin ≤ 1.5 × ULN. 
c.  Creatinine ≤ 1.5 × ULN. 
5.  The patient had adequate bone marrow function, evidenced by the following: 
a.  Absolute neutrophil count ≥ 1.0 × 109 cells/L. 
b.  Platelets ≥ 80 × 109 cells/L (transfusion independent, defined as not having received platelet 
transfusions within 7 days prior to laboratory sample). In the Phase 2 portion, for patients with 
known bone marrow involvement, platelets ≥ 50 × 109 cells/L. 
c.  Haemoglobin ≥ 8 g/dL (transfusion was permitted to fulfill this criterion). 
Key exclusion criteria 
1.  The patient had a primary brain tumour(s) or brain metastasis (unless metastasis was treated and 
stable for > 28 days). In patients who were symptomatic, a brain scan was required to exclude 
metastasis. 
2.  The patient had ≥ Grade 2 peripheral neuropathy by NCI CTCAE at screening. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 21/92 
 
 
 
3.  The patient had received therapeutic dose chemotherapy or radiotherapy ≤ 21 days prior to start 
of IP. 
4.  The patient had received maintenance dose chemotherapy (e.g., low dose cyclophosphamide) ≤ 7 
days from the first dose of IP. 
5.  The patient had received any investigational therapy ≤ 28 days prior to start of IP. Investigational 
therapy was defined as any medicinal product that was not approved in the country of treatment 
for any indication, adult or paediatric. 
6.  The patient had received any biological therapy ≤ 7 days prior to the start of IP, or monoclonal 
antibody ≤ 3 half-lives or 28 days, whichever was shorter, prior to the first dose of IP. 
7.  The patient had received allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) ≤ 3 months or 
autologous HSCT ≤ 21 days prior to start of IP. 
8.  The patient had major surgery or significant trauma ≤ 14 days prior to start of IP. 
9.  The patient had not recovered from the acute toxic effects of prior chemotherapy, radiation, or 
major surgery/significant trauma. 
10. The patient had minor surgery ≤ 7 days from the start of study treatment (excluding the 
placement of central/peripheral lines, skin biopsy). 
11. The patient had a known history of stroke, myocardial infarction, peripheral vascular disease, or 
recent (within 3 months) uncontrolled deep venous thrombosis. 
12. The patient had a known history or current diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus infection, 
regardless of treatment status. 
Treatments 
In both the Phase 1 and 2 portions, the treatment was given until disease progression, the patient 
began a new anticancer treatment, withdrawal of parent/guardian/patient consent/assent, 
parent/guardian/patient refusal, physician decision, toxicity that could not be managed by dose delay 
or dose reduction alone (reductions were prohibited in Cycle 1 [and Cycle 2 for patients ≤ 10 kg] for 
the Phase 1 portion only), or the study ended for any reason. nab-Paclitaxel was administered IV over 
approximately 30 minutes, without corticosteroid or antihistamine premedication, weekly on Days 1, 8, 
and 15 of a 28-day cycle. Following administration, the IV line was flushed with sodium chloride 9 
mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure administration of the complete dose, according to local 
practice. 
Phase 1: Dose escalation 
In the Phase 1 portion, up to 6 DDS-eligible patients were assessed at a starting dose of 120 mg/m2 
nab-paclitaxel (80% of the weekly investigated adult dosage). Preliminary evaluation of the 
relationship between paclitaxel CL and body surface area (BSA) or weight suggested that BSA or 
weight had minimal impact on paclitaxel CL in adult patients treated with nab-paclitaxel. However, it 
was unknown if this observation could have been extrapolated from adults to children. Since the BSA-
based dosing was more conservative and was the approved dosing approach for adult patients, the 
nab-paclitaxel dose was based on BSA in the paediatric study. 
Dose escalation occurred according to example dose levels described in Table 1, using the rolling-6 
design. Doses not listed, including intermediate doses or doses higher than 210 mg/m2, may have 
been tested based on study data and recommendations from the SMC. 
For patients who weighed ≤ 10 kg, the dosage was calculated per kg, and nab-paclitaxel was 
administered according to the schedule in Table 1. As it was impractical to accurately calculate BSA in 
children weighing ≤ 10 kg, the BSA-based dose was converted to mg per kg of weight in these 
children. The weight-based dose in each cohort was calculated by dividing the total dose at the median 
BSA (0.41 m2) with the median weight (8.7 kg) for children weighing ≤ 10 kg and aged ≥ 6 months. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 22/92 
 
 
 
In order to ensure their safety, patients weighing ≤ 10 kg received a reduced dose (by one level) in 
Cycle 1, and if well tolerated (no DLTs) received the full dose starting in Cycle 2. 
Table 1. Phase 1 example dose levels 
Phase 2: Dose expansion 
The Phase 2 portion was conducted at the established RP2D at the same schedule as in the Phase 1 
portion. On 14 Jan 2016, the SMC determined that the RP2D was 240 mg/m2 in patients weighing > 
10 kg and 11.5 mg/kg in patients weighing ≤ 10 kg. 
Concomitant medication 
Erythropoietin may have been administered at the discretion of the investigator, consistent with 
institutional guidelines. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was not given during the DLT 
assessment period, but subsequently may have been given according to institutional guidelines for the 
treatment of neutropaenic fever or infections associated with neutropaenia and for the prevention of 
febrile neutropaenia in patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) < 500 cells/μL. 
Other prohibited concomitant medications and procedures were: 
−  Radiotherapy, except for palliative purposes for non-target lesions. 
−  Surgical intervention as anticancer therapy during Cycle 1 required the patient to discontinue from 
study treatment. 
−  Administration of 131I-MIBG therapy (e.g., for neuroblastoma treatment). 
−  Administration of other chemotherapy, immunotherapy, anti-tumour hormonal therapy, 
investigational therapy, or other anticancer therapy. 
−  Administration of coumadin or coumarin derivatives was not allowed during this study; low-
molecular weight heparin should have been used instead. 
In addition, the potential drug-drug interaction precautions contained in the nab-paclitaxel prescribing 
information were applied to this study. Specifically, the metabolism of paclitaxel was catalysed by 
cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes CYP2C8 and CYP3A4. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 were 
prohibited for use from the first dose of IP until permanent discontinuation. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 
and CYP2C8 should have been avoided whenever possible from the first dose of IP until permanent 
discontinuation. If possible, patients should have been switched to other medications for the 
comorbidity prior to starting IP. Caution was recommended when administering nab-paclitaxel 
concomitantly with any substrates or inhibitors of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4. Similarly, drugs, herbal 
preparations, and/or dietary supplements known to influence the expression of CYP3A (eg, garlic 
supplements) and/or CYP2C8 should have been used with caution. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 23/92 
 
 
 
 
Study assessments 
Efficacy assessments 
Response assessments (tumour evaluations) were performed at screening (up to 28 days before the 
start of IP) and every 8 weeks (± 5 days) from Cycle 1 Day 1 until disease progression, start of a new 
anticancer therapy, or withdrawal of consent from the entire study. Evaluation of response was 
performed using RECIST version 1.1 guidelines. All patients with evidence of objective tumour 
response (CR or PR) should have had the response confirmed with repeat assessments at the next 
scheduled scan, but after no less than 4 weeks. Response assessments must have occurred ≥ 6 weeks 
from Cycle 1 Day 1 to be considered as stable disease for a best response. 
In the Phase 2 portion, patients with neuroblastoma were also assessed at screening for response 
using MIBG evaluation and the Curie score, and then (if evaluable by MIBG scan at screening) every 8 
weeks (± 5 days) from Cycle 1 Day 1 until disease progression, start of a new anticancer therapy, or 
withdrawal of consent from the entire study. Patients without MIBG evaluable lesions at screening 
should have had a subsequent MIBG scan at suspected progression only. Patients with confirmed 
objective CR were assessed for bone marrow disease through bone marrow biopsy. If the patient was 
assessed by both RECIST and MIBG/Curie score, both methodologies must have shown confirmed 
objective CR. 
New anticancer therapies were also collected at the same schedule. New anticancer therapy included 
(but was not limited to) any systemic or local-regional medication, surgery, radiation, or any other 
therapy intended to treat the patient’s cancer. 
Biomarkers 
The most recently available tumour tissue sample was optionally collected at the time of study entry. 
The specific use of these samples was not pre-specified and will be determined in the future based on 
emerging data and methodological advances. A potential use of these samples was to assess in the 
paediatric patients in this study the value of markers of response to nab-paclitaxel that may be 
identified in studies of adult patients. 
Safety assessments 
Safety was to be assessed through clinical evaluations, vital sign measurements, review of laboratory 
test results, and monitoring of AEs. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis populations 
− 
Informed consent/assent population: all patients who signed informed consent and/or assent, 
ie, all patients who entered the screening period regardless of later being a screen failure. 
−  Enrolled population: all patients enrolled, ie, all patients who were marked as enrolled in the 
clinical database regardless of whether they received nab-paclitaxel. 
−  Safety population: all patients who received at least one dose of nab-paclitaxel. 
−  Efficacy evaluable populations 
• 
Phase 1 regardless of disease condition: all treated patients who met eligibility criteria, 
completed at least one dose of nab-paclitaxel, and had baseline and either at least one post 
baseline efficacy assessment or discontinued nab-paclitaxel due to disease progression or 
symptomatic deterioration before a post baseline efficacy assessment could have been 
conducted. In this instance, efficacy assessment was defined as a radiological assessment of 
the tumour or tumour assessment by other appropriate means. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 24/92 
 
 
 
• 
Phase 2 rhabdomyosarcoma and Ewing’s sarcoma indications: all treated patients who met 
eligibility criteria relevant to efficacy, completed at least one dose of nab-paclitaxel, had 
baseline and either at least one post baseline efficacy assessment assessed per RECIST version 
1.1 or discontinued nab-paclitaxel due to disease progression or symptomatic deterioration 
before a post baseline efficacy assessment could have been conducted. In this instance, 
efficacy assessment was defined as a radiological assessment of the tumour or tumour 
assessment by any means appropriate. 
• 
Phase 2 neuroblastoma indication: one dose of nab-paclitaxel, and had either baseline and at 
least one post baseline efficacy assessment assessed per the RECIST version 1.1 and/or the 
Curie score (MIBG response) or discontinued nab-paclitaxel due to disease progression or 
symptomatic deterioration before a post baseline efficacy assessment could have been 
conducted. In this instance, efficacy assessment was defined as a radiological assessment of 
the tumour or tumour assessment by any appropriate means. The neuroblastoma response 
criteria using RECIST version 1.1 and/or the Curie score are consistent with the updated 
International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria guidelines (Park 2017). 
−  Dose-determining set: the primary endpoint for Phase 1, determination of the MTD/RP2D, was 
performed on the DDS for each dose level tested. In patients weighing > 10 kg, the DDS included 
all patients who experienced a DLT, or received all 3 weekly doses of nab-paclitaxel at the cohort 
planned dose during Cycle 1 and had adequate safety assessments during the DLT assessment 
period (Cycle 1, including predose assessments on Cycle 2 Day 1). In patients weighing ≤ 10 kg, 
the DDS included all patients who experienced a DLT, or received all 6 weekly doses of nab-
paclitaxel at the cohort planned doses during Cycles 1 and 2 and had adequate safety assessments 
during the DLT assessment period (Cycles 1 and 2, including predose assessments on Cycle 3 Day 
1). 
Sample size calculation 
During Phase 1, a rolling-6 patient dose escalation design was used to establish the MTD/RP2D, with 
approximately 64 patients enrolled depending on the number of dose levels required (approximately 
44 considered evaluable for determination of the MTD/RP2D and approximately 20 additional patients 
at dose levels previously evaluated as safe by the SMC). Patients who were ineligible for determination 
of the MTD/RP2D may have been replaced at the discretion of the sponsor. Additional patients may 
have been enrolled at dose levels evaluated as safe by the SMC. 
In Phase 2, a Simon two-stage minimax design was employed per disease indication with each 
incorporating the following parameters: 5% significance level, 80% power and an upper and lower 
boundary of interest of 10% and 28%, respectively, for the ORR. Each of the three disease indications 
would therefore enroll up to 23 patients across Phase 2 (14 patients in Stage 1 and an additional 9 
patients in Stage 2) meaning a maximum total of 69 patients evaluable for the primary endpoint. For 
purposes of the primary endpoint analysis, the ORR was defined using the maximum likelihood 
estimator. For each of the three groups in Stage 1, if < 2 of the 14 evaluable patients had a response, 
then enrollment into that disease indication group would be stopped; otherwise, enrollment would 
continue as planned in Stage 2. At the final analysis, the study treatment would be concluded with 
more than a 5% true response rate if ≥ 5 of 23 patients had a response. The Phase 2 target response 
rate was therefore 21.74% with 80% power and a 10% significance level. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 25/92 
 
 
 
Study conduct 
Protocol amendments 
The original protocol (dated 13 May 2013) was amended five times. Below the key changes per 
amendments will be summarised: 
−  Protocol Amendment 1 (dated 10 Sep 2013) 
•  Addition of echocardiogram/MUGA scans for increased cardiotoxicity monitoring 
•  Modification of the schedule of events to increase the frequency of 12-lead ECG testing 
•  Addition of a 3-month washout period for HSCT to the exclusion criteria 
•  Decrease in the volume of blood drawn for PK sampling 
−  Protocol Amendment 2 (dated 12 Mar 2014) 
• 
• 
• 
In the Phase 2 portion, a change to the sample size for the Phase 2 neuroblastoma arm, and 
modifications of the Simon two-stage minimax design to implement acceptance rates of 
approximately 20% response rates for the neuroblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma arms 
The addition of ≥ Grade 2 peripheral neuropathy to the exclusion criteria 
The addition of information concerning the use of syringe-based devices for administration of 
small volumes of nab-paclitaxel suspension 
•  A change from cautionary use to prohibition of concomitant medications classified as strong 
inducers of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4, and additional guidance on the use of strong inhibitors of the 
same isozymes 
−  Protocol Amendment 3 (dated 11 Jun 2014) 
•  Add specific language to discontinue and not rechallenge treatment for hypersensitivity  
•  Clarify with specific language to discontinue treatment 
−  Protocol Amendment 4 (dated 25 Mar 2015) 
Increased scope of dense PK sample collection 
• 
•  Change of the third solid tumours group in Phase 2 from mixed tumours to Ewing’s sarcoma 
•  Harmonisation of sample size and Simon two-stage minimax design for the three groups in 
Phase 2 
•  Updated inclusion criterion 2 for Phase 2 to require radiologically documented measurable 
disease by RECIST version 1.1 (for neuroblastoma evaluable disease by MIBG/Curie Score is 
also acceptable) 
•  Updated assessment of the primary endpoint (ORR) in the Phase 2 neuroblastoma group to use 
both the RECIST version 1.1 criteria and the Curie score 
•  Confirmation of CR in Phase 2 neuroblastoma 
•  Decreased minimum platelet level in inclusion criterion 5 for Phase 2 patients with known bone 
marrow involvement 
−  Protocol Amendment 5 (dated 13 Jul 2016) 
•  Updated inclusion criterion 1b for Phase 2 to allow enrollment of patients ≥ 6 months to ≤ 24 
years of age 
•  Updated inclusion criterion 2b for Phase 2 to allow enrollment of patients who have failed up to 
three lines of treatment 
•  Modification of exclusion criterion 7 to differentiate between autologous and allogeneic HSCT 
•  Updated assessment of the primary endpoint (ORR) in the Phase 2 neuroblastoma group using 
both RECIST version 1.1 criteria and the Curie score 
• 
Identification of the RP2D 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 26/92 
 
 
 
Protocol deviations and violations 
Protocol deviations were defined as any unplanned diversion from the approved protocol that did not 
result in harm to the study patients or significantly affect the scientific value of study data. Protocol 
violations were defined as any departures from the approved protocol that impacted the safety, rights, 
and/or welfare of the patient; may have negatively impacted the quality of the study data; or made 
the informed consent document/process inaccurate. 
In Phase 1, 56 patients overall had at least 1 protocol deviation. Most protocol deviations were related 
to study procedures/assessments. In Phase 1, 9 patients (14%) had protocol violations. The most 
common protocol violation categories were “study procedures/assessments” (3 patients [5%]) along 
with “inclusion criteria” and “other protocol deviation”, each noted in 2 patients (3%). Most patients (8 
patients [12%]) only had one protocol violation. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups in Phase 2, 13 patients per 
group had at least one protocol deviation. Most protocol deviations were related to study 
procedures/assessments. For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 4 patients (29%) had 1 protocol violation 
each. The protocol violations categories were “concomitant medication”, “exclusion criteria”, ”study 
procedures/assessments” and “inclusion criteria”, each noted in 1 patient (7%). For the neuroblastoma 
group, 2 patients (14%) had 1 protocol violation each. The protocol violations categories were “other 
protocol deviation” and “study procedures/assessments”, each noted in 1 patient (7%). For the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group, 4 patients (29%) had protocol violations. The protocol violations categories 
were “inclusion criteria”, noted in 3 patients (21%), and “exclusion criteria”, noted in 1 patient (7%). 
The majority of the patients with protocol violations only had 1 protocol violation (3 patients [21%]) 
and 1 patient (7%) had 2 protocol violations. 
4.3.3.  Results 
Clinical efficacy 
Phase 1 
Patient disposition and data sets 
Sixty-five patients were included in the Enrolled Population, and 64 enrolled patients received at least 
one dose of study drug and were included in the Safety and PK Populations (Table 2). Fifty-nine 
patients were included in the Efficacy Evaluable Population. 7 patients were screened and excluded 
from enrollment because they did not meet eligibility criteria. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 27/92 
 
 
 
Table 2. Phase 1 - Analysis Populations 
Patient disposition for the Safety Population in Phase 1 is presented in Table 3. A total of 65 patients 
were enrolled in Phase 1 with 1 patient enrolled but not assigned to a cohort or given a dose due to 
patient withdrawal by parent/guardian, 16 patients enrolled in the 120 mg/m2 cohort, 8 patients 
enrolled in the 150 mg/m2 cohort, 14 patients enrolled in the 180 mg/m2 cohort, 11 patients enrolled 
in the 210 mg/m2 cohort, 8 patients enrolled in the 240 mg/m2 cohort, and 7 patients enrolled in the 
270 mg/m2 cohort. 
The DDS was a subgroup of 37 patients (6 patients in each dose cohort except for the 270 mg/m2 
cohort, which included 7 patients) enrolled in Phase 1 whose data were used to determine the dose 
escalation decisions. The additional 27 patients were treated but did not meet the qualifications for 
eligibility in the DDS and were enrolled in a cohort previously considered safe by the SMC once there 
was no availability in a given cohort, but the investigator considered that the patients were eligible and 
would benefit from treatment. 
Overall in Phase 1, all 64 patients (100%) discontinued from the study. The most frequently reported 
reasons for study treatment discontinuation were progressive disease (35 patients [55%]), AE (11 
patients [17%]), and symptomatic deterioration (11 patients [17%]) (Table 3). A total of 13 patients 
completed the 1-year survival follow-up portion of the study, 50 patients died prior to 1 year, and 1 
patient was lost to follow-up. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 28/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Patient Disposition – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Baseline and disease characteristics 
Demographic characteristics of Phase 1 patients are summarised in Table 4. Overall, there were 33 
female patients (52%) and 31 male patients (48%). The median (range) age was 12.0 (2 to 17) years 
and most patients (37 patients [58%]) were aged ≥ 12 years to < 18 years. The majority of patients 
were white (50 patients [78%]). The median weight of the patients was 41.40 kg. Three patients (5%) 
reported a race category of “other” because they were not categorised under the designations for race 
agreed to in the FDA Written Request dated 27 Jul 2017. No patients were enrolled who weighed ≤ 10 
kg or were under 2 years of age. Karnofsky performance status score was collected for the 37 patients 
who were ≥ 12 years of age, with baseline scores of 100 (13 patients [20%]), 90 (10 patients [16%]), 
80 (6 patients [9%]), and 70 (8 patients [13%]). Lansky performance status was collected for the 27 
patients who were < 12 years of age, with baseline scores of 100 (15 patients [23%]), 90 (6 patients 
[9%]), 80 (4 patients [6%]), and 70 (2 patients [3%]). Demographic characteristics based on the 
Efficacy Evaluable Population are summarised in Table 14.1.5.2 of the Appendices of the CSR. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 29/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Phase 1 (Safety Population) - Demographic and Baseline Characteristics 
Phase 1 allowed enrollment of patients with recurrent and refractory solid tumours. The most 
frequently reported tumour types were rhabdomyosarcoma (14 patients [22%]), Ewing’s sarcoma 
(13 patients [20%]), neuroblastoma (10 patients [16%]), and osteosarcoma (8 patients [13%]). Other 
included tumour types were adrenalcortical carcinoma (n=2), clear cell sarcoma (n=2), desmoplastic 
small round cell tumour (n=1), hepatoblastoma (n=3), hepatocarcinoma (n=1), immature ovarian 
teratoma (n=1), left adrenalcortical carcinoma (n=1), left renal tumour with pulmonary metastases 
(high grade malignant tumour NOS; n=1), nasopharyngeal carcinoma (n=1), sarcoma NAS (n=1), 
Wilm’s tumour (n=4), and yolk sac tumour (n=1). The median time from initial diagnosis to the first 
dose of study drug was 21.5 months (range: 4 to 170 months). Disease stage reported at enrollment 
was Stage II (2 patients [3%]); Stage III (6 patients [9%]); and Stage IV (56 patients [88%]). 
Baseline lesion status using RECIST version 1.1 is summarised in Table 14.1.12 of the Appendices of 
the CSR. 
The majority of patients (54 patients [84%]) had at least one ongoing medical history condition at 
study entry. The most frequently reported (in ≥ 25% of patients) SOCs were blood and lymphatic 
system disorders (34 patients [53%]), gastrointestinal disorders (19 patients [30%]), musculoskeletal 
and connective tissue disorders (17 patients [27%]), and skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (16 
patients [25%]). The most frequently reported (in > 15.0% of patients) medical history PTs were 
anaemia (25 patients [39%]) and alopecia (10 patients [16%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 30/92 
 
 
 
 
In Phase 1, 53 patients (83%) overall received at least one prior medication (besides prior cancer 
treatment which is shown in Table 4). The most frequently used prior medications (in ≥ 15.0% of 
patients) were Bactrim (29 patients [45%]), paracetamol (18 patients [28%]), and ondansetron (11 
patients [17%]). 
Concomitant medication was received by 62 patients (97%) The most frequently used (≥ 30.0% of 
patients) concomitant medications were ondansetron (49 patients [77%]), paracetamol (47 patients 
[73%]), and Bactrim (42 patients [66%]). 32 patients (50%) overall had at least one concomitant 
procedure/surgery performed during the study. Most concomitant procedures were reported in ≤ 2 
patients except packed red blood cell transfusions (17 patients [27%]) and transfusion (4 patients 
[6%]). 
A majority of patients in Phase 1 received subsequent anticancer therapies, primarily 
cyclophosphamide, etoposide, ifosfamide, irinotecan, temozolomide, and topotecan. 
Secondary efficacy endpoint- Overall Response Rate 
A summary of the ORRs and best overall responses based on RECIST Version 1.1 in the Efficacy 
Evaluable Population is provided in Table 5. Overall, 2 patients had confirmed PRs (ORR of 3.4% [95% 
CI: 0.4, 11.7]): 1 patient each in the 240 mg/m2 (patient with rhabdomyosarcoma) and 270 mg/m2 
(patient with Ewing’s sarcoma) cohorts, which lasted 23.36 weeks. There were 5 unconfirmed 
responses (1 CR and 4 PRs). The CR was observed in the 210 mg/m2 cohort (1 patient). The PRs were 
observed in the 240 mg/m2 (3 patients) and 270 mg/m2 (1 patient) cohorts. 
Table 5. Summary of ORR by RECIST Version 1.1 – Phase 1 (Efficacy Evaluable Population) 
Exploratory efficacy endpoints 
123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine response (MIBG) 
Overall, 2 patients out of 8 patients had a confirmed PR and ORR of 25.0% (95% CI: 3.2, 65.1) based 
on MIBG response in the neuroblastoma group in the Efficacy Evaluable Population (Table 6). The PRs 
were observed in the 180 mg/m2 and 210 mg/m2 cohorts. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 31/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Summary of ORR by MIBG Scan for Neuroblastoma Patients – Phase 1 (Efficacy 
Evaluable Population) 
Biomarker analysis 
Biomarker analysis was planned as an exploratory objective of this study to investigate the potential 
utility of markers of response to nab-paclitaxel. Per protocol, Stage 2 of the Phase 2 portion of the 
study did not proceed because the results demonstrated lack of clinical activity by nab-paclitaxel in the 
paediatric tumours studied. Due to the low response rate in recurrent or refractory Ewing's sarcoma, 
neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma, it was determined that further development in these 
indications is not warranted and biomarker analysis was not conducted, as such data would not have 
provided any additional data that could have informed further development. 
Phase 2 
Patient disposition and data sets 
The Enrolled, Safety, and PK populations all contained 14 patients each in the Ewing’s sarcoma, 
neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups. The Efficacy Evaluable Population also contained 14 
patients in the neuroblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, but the Ewing’s sarcoma contained only 
13 patients. One Ewing’s sarcoma patient failed to meet eligibility criteria relevant to efficacy. 8 
patients were screened and excluded from enrollment because they did not meet eligibility criteria. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 32/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Phase 2 - Analysis Populations 
Patient disposition for the Safety Population in Phase 2 is presented in Table 8. In each group, all 
patients were discontinued from treatment. 
Table 8. Patient Disposition – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 33/92 
 
 
 
 
 
As of the cut-off date for this CSR (05 Dec 2017), the 1-year survival follow-up status of the patients 
was as follows: 
−  One Ewing’s sarcoma patient completed the 1-year survival follow-up portion of the study, 6 
patients died prior to 1 year, 1 patient was lost to follow-up, and 6 patients are ongoing in survival 
follow-up. 
−  Two neuroblastoma patients completed the 1-year survival follow-up portion of the study, 8 
patients died prior to 1 year, and 3 patients are ongoing in survival follow-up. 
−  One rhabdomyosarcoma patient completed the 1-year survival follow-up portion of the study, 11 
patients died prior to 1 year, and 1 patient are ongoing in survival follow-up. 
Results for the currently ongoing patients will be provided in a separate report once all subjects have 
completed the 1-year survival follow-up period or died. 
Baseline and disease characteristics 
Demographic characteristics of Phase 2 patients are summarised in Table 9. For the Ewing’s 
sarcoma group, 8 patients (57%) were male and 6 patients (43%) were female. The median (range) 
age was 8.5 (4 to 18) years and most patients (10 patients [71%]) were aged ≥ 2 years to < 12 
years. The majority of patients were white (11 patients [79%]). The median weight of the patients was 
25.05 kg. No patients were enrolled who weighed ≤ 10 kg or were under 2 years of age. Karnofsky 
performance status (for patients ≥ 12 years old) baseline scores were 100 (1 patient [7%]), 90 (1 
patient [7%]), and 80 (2 patients [14%]). Lansky performance status (for patients < 12 years old) 
baseline scores were 100 (5 patients [36%]) and 90 (5 patients [36%]). 
For the neuroblastoma group, 9 patients (64%) were male and 5 patients (36%) were female. The 
median (range) age was 7.0 (1 to 15) years and most patients (11 patients [79%]) were aged ≥ 2 
years to < 12 years. The majority of patients were white (11 patients [79%]). The median weight of 
the patients was 21.45 kg. No patients were enrolled who weighed ≤ 10 kg and only 1 patient (7%) 
under 2 years of age was enrolled. Karnofsky performance status (for patients ≥ 12 years old) baseline 
score was 100 (2 patients [14%]). Lansky performance status (for patients < 12 years old) baseline 
scores were 100 (8 patients [57%]), 90 (1 patient [7%]), 80 (2 patients [14%]), and 70 (1 patient 
[7%]). 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 9 patients (64%) were female and 5 patients (36%) were male. 
The median (range) age was 14.0 (3 to 24) years and most patients (7 patients [50%]) were aged ≥ 
12 years to < 18 years. The majority of patients were white (12 patients [86%]). The median weight 
of the patients was 49.35 kg. No patients were enrolled who weighed ≤ 10 kg or were under 2 years of 
age. Karnofsky performance status (for patients ≥ 12 years old) baseline scores were 100 (4 patients 
[29%]), 90 (3 patients [21%]), 80 (1 patient [7%]), and 70 (1 patient [7%]). Lansky performance 
status (for patients < 12 years old) baseline scores were 100 (3 patients [21%]) and 90 (2 patients 
[14%]). 
Demographic characteristics based on the Efficacy Evaluable Population are summarised in Table 
14.1.5.2. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 34/92 
 
 
 
Table 9. Phase 2 (Safety Population) - Demographic and Baseline Characteristics 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, the median time from initial diagnosis to the first dose of study drug 
was 20.4 months (range: 9 to 85 months). Disease stages reported at enrollment were Stage II (1 
patient [7%]), Stage III (1 patient [7%]), and Stage IV (12 patients [86%]). For the neuroblastoma 
group, the median time from initial diagnosis to the first dose of study drug was 29.4 months (range: 8 
to 122 months). Disease stages reported at enrollment were Stage II (1 patient [7%]), Stage III (1 
patient [7%]), and Stage IV (12 patients [86%]). For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, the median time 
from initial diagnosis to the first dose of study drug was 16.9 months (range: 5 to 58 months). Disease 
stages reported at enrollment were Stage III (3 patient [21%]) and Stage IV (11 patients [79%]). 
Baseline lesion status using RECIST version 1.1 is summarised in Table 14.1.12. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 35/92 
 
 
 
 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, the majority of patients (10 patients [71%]) had at least one ongoing 
medical history condition at study entry. The most frequently reported (in ≥ 25% of patients) SOC 
was musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (4 patients [29%]). The only medical history PT 
reported in > 2 patients was pain in extremity (3 patients [21%]). For the neuroblastoma group, the 
majority of patients (11 patients [79%]) had at least one ongoing medical history condition at study 
entry. The most frequently reported (in ≥ 25% of patients) SOCs were blood and lymphatic system 
disorders (7 patients [50%]), gastrointestinal disorders (4 patients [29%]), and general disorders and 
administration site conditions (4 patients [29%]). The only medical history PTs reported in > 2 patients 
were anaemia (4 patients [29%]) and neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]). For the rhabdomyosarcoma 
group, the majority of patients (11 patients [79%]) had at least one ongoing medical history condition 
at study entry. The most frequently reported (in ≥ 25% of patients) SOCs were blood and lymphatic 
system disorders (5 patients [36%]), gastrointestinal disorders (4 patients [29%]), and 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (4 patients [29%]). The only medical history PTs 
reported in > 2 patients were anaemia (4 patients [29%]) and alopecia (3 patients [21%]). 
Prior cancer treatment is shown in Table 9. Regarding other prior medication in the Ewing’s sarcoma 
group, 13 patients (93%) received at least one prior medication. The most frequently used prior 
medications (in ≥ 15.0% of patients) were Bactrim (11 patients [79%]), paracetamol (6 patients 
[43%]), gabapentin (4 patients [29%]), enoxaparin sodium (3 patients [21%]), and ondansetron (3 
patients [21%]). For the neuroblastoma group, 10 patients (71%) received at least one prior 
medication. The most frequently used prior medications (in ≥ 15.0% of patients) were Bactrim (7 
patients [50%]), paracetamol (5 patients [36%]), and morphine sulfate (3 patients [21%]). For the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group, 12 patients (86%) received at least one prior medication. The most 
frequently used prior medications (in ≥ 15.0% of patients) were Bactrim (5 patients [36%]), 
paracetamol (4 patients [29%]), and fentanyl (3 patients [21%]). 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 13 patients (93%) received at least one concomitant medication 
during Phase 2. The most frequently used (≥ 30.0% of patients) concomitant medications were 
Bactrim (11 patients [79%]), ondansetron (11 patients [79%]), paracetamol (11 patients [79%]), 
gabapentin (8 patients [57%]), ketorolac tromethamine (6 patients [43%]), and ranitidine 
hydrochloride (5 patients [36%]). For the neuroblastoma group, all 14 patients (100%) received at 
least one concomitant medication during Phase 2. The most frequently used (≥ 30.0% of patients) 
concomitant medications were Bactrim (11 patients [79%]), ondansetron (10 patients [71%]), and 
paracetamol (9 patients [64%]). For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, all 14 patients (100%) received at 
least one concomitant medication during Phase 2. The most frequently used (≥ 30.0% of patients) 
concomitant medications were paracetamol (11 patients [79%]), ondansetron (10 patients [71%]), 
Bactrim (7 patients [50%]), morphine (7 patients [50%]), dexamethasone (5 patients [36%]), 
metamizole (5 patients [36%]), morphine sulfate (5 patients [36%]), and omeprazole (5 patients 
[36%]). For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 9 patients (64%) had at least one concomitant 
procedure/surgery performed during Phase 2. Most concomitant procedures were reported in ≤ 2 
patients. The concomitant procedures reported in > 2 patients were packed red blood cell transfusion 
(5 patients [36%]) and computerised tomogram thorax (4 patients [29%]). For the neuroblastoma 
group, 7 patients (50%) had at least one concomitant procedure/surgery performed during Phase 2. 
Most concomitant procedures were reported in ≤ 2 patients. The concomitant procedures reported in > 
2 patients were packed red blood cell transfusion (3 patients [21%]) and platelet transfusion (3 
patients [21%]). For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 11 patients (79%) had at least one concomitant 
procedure/surgery performed during Phase 2. Most concomitant procedures were reported in ≤ 2 
patients. The concomitant procedures reported in > 2 patients were packed red blood cell transfusion 
(7 patients [50%]) and platelet transfusion (3 patients [21%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 36/92 
 
 
 
A majority of patients in Phase 2 received subsequent/posttreatment anticancer therapies, primarily 
cyclophosphamide, etoposide, ifosfamide, irinotecan, temozolomide, and topotecan. Since 10 patients 
were still in the survival follow-up period at the time of the data cut-off for this study report, a full 
listing of posttreatment anticancer therapies will be presented at the time of the final overall survival 
study report. 
Primary efficacy endpoint- Overall response rate 
A summary of the ORRs and best overall responses based on RECIST version 1.1 and/or MIBG 
response (neuroblastoma group only) and MIBG response alone in the Efficacy Evaluable Population is 
provided in Table 10 and Table 11, respectively. 
One patient in the rhabdomyosarcoma group had a confirmed PR resulting in an ORR of 7.1% (95% 
CI: 0.2, 33.9). No confirmed CR or PR was observed in either the Ewing’s sarcoma group or the 
neuroblastoma group based on RECIST version 1.1 and/or MIBG response (neuroblastoma group only). 
There were 5 unconfirmed PRs reported: 3 patients (21.4%) and 2 patients (15.4%) in the 
rhabdomyosarcoma and Ewing’s sarcoma groups, respectively. No unconfirmed best response of CR or 
PR was seen in the neuroblastoma group based on RECIST version 1.1 and/or MIBG response. Based 
on Listing 16.2.5.4 some of the unconfirmed responses were in patients that had PD after an initial 
response (1 Ewing’s sarcoma, 1 rhabdomyosarcoma) and some responses could not be confirmed 
because no subsequent tumour evaluation was performed (1 in Ewing’s sarcoma, 2 
rhadomyosarcoma). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 37/92 
 
 
 
Table 10. Summary of ORR by RECIST Version 1.1 and/or MIBG Response (Neuroblastoma 
Group Only) – Phase 2 (Efficacy Evaluable Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 38/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 11. Summary of ORR by MIBG Scan for Neuroblastoma Patients – Phase 2 (Efficacy 
Evaluable Population) 
Secondary efficacy endpoint – Duration of response 
One patient showed a confirmed PR in the rhabdomyosarcoma group, which lasted 6.14 weeks. No 
confirmed responses were observed in the Ewing’s sarcoma and neuroblastoma groups. 
Secondary efficacy endpoint – Disease control rate 
The DCR was 30.8% (4 patients; 95% CI: 9.1, 61.4) for the Ewing’s sarcoma group; 7.1% (1 patient; 
95% CI: 0.2, 33.9) for the neuroblastoma group; and 7.1% (1 patient; 95% CI: 0.2, 33.9) for the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group. 
Of note, in the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 2 patients had a Best Overall Response of unconfirmed PR. As 
reported in Listing 16.2.5.5 (see ABI-007-PST-001 Listing of Individual Laboratory Measurements by 
Patients), one of these 2 patients with a Best Overall Response of (unconfirmed) PR also met the 
requirements for a Best Confirmed Overall Response of SD ≥ 16 weeks (in accordance with the ABI-
007-PST-001 Statistical Analysis Plan, SD duration was calculated as the time from first study drug 
administration until first observed disease progression). This brings the total number of patients with 
SD ≥ 16 weeks in the Ewing’s sarcoma group to 4 for the calculation of DCR. 
Secondary efficacy endpoint – Progression-free survival 
The PFS results for the Efficacy Evaluable Population are demonstrated in Table 12. For the Ewing’s 
sarcoma group, the median PFS was 13 weeks (95% CI: 7.4, 16.1). The estimated Kaplan-Meier PFS 
rate at 2 months was 54% (95% CI: 25, 76), at 6 months was 15% (95% CI: 2, 39), and at 12-
months could not be estimated because zero patients were at risk. For the neuroblastoma group, the 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 39/92 
 
 
 
 
median PFS was 7.4 weeks (95% CI: 4.6, 8.1). The estimated Kaplan-Meier PFS rate at 2 months was 
16% (95% CI: 3, 40) and could not be estimated at 6 and 12 months because zero patients were at 
risk. For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, the median PFS was 5.1 weeks (95% CI: 2.1, 7.9). The 
estimated Kaplan-Meier PFS rate at 2 months was 21% (95% CI: 5, 45) and could not be estimated at 
6 and 12 months because zero patients were at risk. 
Table 12. Progression-free Survival – Phase 2 (Efficacy Evaluable Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 40/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoint - Overall survival 
The estimated Kaplan-Meier overall survival for the Efficacy Evaluable Population at 1 year was 48% 
(95% CI: 14, 76), 25% (95% CI: 4, 54), and 15% (95% CI: 2, 39) for the Ewing’s sarcoma, 
neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively. Overall survival follow-up was still 
ongoing for 6 patients (46%), 3 patients (21%), and 1 patient (7%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, 
neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively. The median overall survival was 32.1 
weeks, 26.7 weeks, and 19.6 weeks for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma 
groups, respectively. 
Exploratory efficacy endpoints 
−  Bone marrow biopsy- No exploratory analysis of bone marrow biopsy was performed because 
complete response was not observed in a neuroblastoma patient. 
−  Biomarker analysis- Biomarker analysis was not performed. 
Clinical safety 
Phase 1 
Extent of exposure 
Exposure to study treatment in Phase 1 is summarised in Table 13. No patients weighing ≤ 10 kg were 
enrolled, so no patients were dosed by mg/kg. 
Median treatment duration was 7.0 weeks, with minimum and maximum duration of 1 and 49 weeks, 
respectively. The minimum duration occurred in 1 patient in the 120 mg/m2 cohort and the maximum 
duration in 1 patient in the 270 mg/m2 cohort. The median (range) total number of treatment cycles 
per patient was 2 cycles (range: 1 to 12). The maximum total number of treatment cycles was in the 
150 mg/m2 cohort (12 cycles). 
Overall, 11 patients (17%) had at least one dose reduction. The mean time to first dose reduction was 
5.8 weeks. No dose reductions were observed in the 120 mg/m2 cohort. The number of reductions 
increased with the dose, with 3 patients (38%) and 4 patients (57%) having reductions in the 240 
mg/m2 and 270 mg/m2 cohorts, respectively. 
5 patients (8%) had at least one dose escalation. The mean time to first dose escalation was 11.7 
weeks. No dose escalations were observed in the 270 mg/m2 cohort. Per the protocol, if a patient was 
doing well at a given dose, the dose could have been increased to a dose that was determined by the 
SMC to be safe. 
Overall, 7 patients (11%) experienced at least one dose interruption. The mean time to first dose 
interruption was 3.2 weeks. No dose interruptions were observed in the 120 mg/m2 cohort and the 
most dose interruptions were observed in the 240 mg/m2 cohort. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 41/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. Treatment Exposure and Dose Modification – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 42/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
A summary of TEAEs reported during Phase 1 is provided in Table 14. Overall, all 64 patients (100%) 
experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. Serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading 
to death were reported in 35 patients (55%), 56 patients (88%), and 5 patients (8%), respectively. 
Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug were reported in 59 patients (92%). Ten patients 
(16%) experienced a TEAE leading to dose reduction, 16 patients (25%) experienced a TEAE leading to 
drug interruption, and 11 patients (17%) experienced a TEAE leading to drug discontinuation. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 43/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. Summary of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
A summary of the most frequently reported TEAEs (≥ 10% of patients in the Total group) during 
Phase 1 is provided in Table 15. Overall, the SOCs with the highest proportion of patients reporting 
TEAEs during Phase 1 were blood and lymphatic system disorders (53 patients [83%]), general 
disorders and administration site conditions (51 patients [80%]), gastrointestinal disorders (47 
patients [73%]), skin and subcutaneous tissues disorders (40 patients [63%]), and musculoskeletal 
and connective tissue disorders (34 patients [53%]). Overall, the most frequently reported TEAEs (in > 
35% of patients) were neutropaenia (38 patients [59%]), anaemia (37 patients [58%]), pyrexia (32 
patients [50%]), and leukopaenia (23 patients [36%]). 
The incidence of neutropaenia and thrombocytopaenia increased as the dose escalated. The percentage 
of patients with neutropaenia doubled between the 120 mg/m2 cohort (7 patients [44%]) and the 240 
mg/m2 cohort (7 patients [88%]). Thrombocytopaenia was reported in ≤ 2 patients in all cohorts 
except the 270 mg/m2 cohort (4 patients [57%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 44/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 15. TEAEs by SOC and PT (in at Least 10% of Patients in the Total Group) – Phase 1 
(Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 45/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of the TEAEs were Grade 1 (63 patients [98%]) and Grade 2 (63 patients [98%]) in 
severity. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in ≥ 2 patients overall during Phase 1 are summarised in Table 
16. The majority of the Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 3 patients overall. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs 
reported in more than 3 patients were neutropaenia (34 patients [53%]), anaemia (17 patients 
[27%]), leukopaenia (17 patients [27%]), lymphopaenia (11 patients [17%]), back pain (5 patients 
[8%]), and hyponatraemia (4 patients [6%]). Grade 4 TEAEs were reported in 27 patients (42%). The 
majority of the Grade 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 3 patients overall. Grade 4 TEAEs reported in more 
than 3 patients were neutropaenia (21 patients [33%]) and leukopaenia (9 patients [14%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 46/92 
 
 
 
Table 16. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs by SOC and PT (in 2 or More Patients in the Total Group) – 
Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 47/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment-related TEAEs during Phase 1 were reported in 59 patients (92%). Treatment-related 
TEAEs reported in ≥ 10% of patients during Phase 1 are summarised in Table 17. The most frequently 
reported treatment-related TEAEs (in > 30% of patients overall) were neutropaenia (36 patients 
[56%]), anaemia (28 patients [44%]), leukopaenia (21 patients [33%]), and alopecia (20 patients 
[31%]). The majority of the treatment-related Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 3 patients 
overall. Treatment-related Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 3 patients were neutropaenia (32 
patients [50%]), anaemia (13 patients [20%]), leukopaenia (15 patients [23%]), and lymphopaenia (8 
patients [13%]). 
Table 17. TEAEs Related to Study Drug by SOC and PT (in at Least 10% of Patients in the 
Total Group) – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
A summary of TEAEs by age group (< 2 years, ≥ 2 years to < 12 years, ≥ 12 years to < 18 years) is 
provided in Table 14.3.1.5 in the Appendices of the CSR. There were no patients in the < 2 years age 
group and the others groups also contain limited number of patients. Interpretation of results in the 
different age groups are therefore difficult to interpret. This is also the case for TEAEs related to the 
study drug by age group (Table 14.3.1.7), Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs by age group (14.3.1.15) and Grade 3 
or 4 TEAEs related to the study drug by age group (Table 14.3.1.17). 
A summary of protocol-defined DLT is provided in Table 18. Overall, 2 patients (5%) experienced a 
protocol-defined DLT during Phase 1. One patient in the 120 mg/m2 cohort experienced Grade 3 
dizziness that lasted 19 days, which met the DLT definition of Grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic toxicity. 
One patient in the 270 mg/m2 cohort experienced Grade 4 neutropaenia that lasted 13 days, which 
met the DLT definition of Grade 4 uncomplicated neutropaenia lasting > 7 days. The DMC established 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 48/92 
 
 
 
 
 
the RP2D, 240 mg/m2, after reviewing the safety data from the 270 mg/m2 cohort where one DLT was 
reported (as described above) as well as an increase in skin toxicity events. The skin toxicity events 
were pain of skin (2 patients), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (1 patient), and toxic 
erythema of chemotherapy (1 patient). Skin toxicities of pruritus (1 patient) and dermatitis bullous (1 
patient) were reported in the 240 mg/m2 cohort. Based on the overall safety evaluation, the DMC 
recommended the dose of 240 mg/m2 for Phase 2. 
Table 18. Summary of Dose-limiting Toxicity – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Serious adverse events 
SAEs 
Serious TEAEs reported during Phase 1 are summarised in Table 19. Overall, 35 patients (55%) 
experienced at least 1 serious TEAE. The majority of serious TEAEs were reported in ≤ 2 patients. 
Serious TEAEs reported in > 2 patients were pyrexia (11 patients [17%]), back pain (3 patients [5%]), 
edema peripheral (3 patients [5%]), and vomiting (3 patients [5%]). Overall, 15 patients (23%) 
experienced at least 1 treatment-related serious TEAE. The majority of treatment-related serious 
TEAEs were reported in ≤ 2 patients. The only treatment-related serious TEAE reported in > 2 patients 
was pyrexia (7 patients [11%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 49/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 19. Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class and Preferred 
Term – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 50/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths 
As shown in Table 20, 50 patients (78%) died during Phase 1 and all deaths were attributed to “death 
from malignant disease under study, or complication due to malignant disease under study.” None of 
these deaths were related to treatment. Five patients (8%) experienced disease progression-related 
TEAEs with the outcome of death during Phase 1. In the 120 mg/m2 cohort, 1 patient each 
experienced the events of anuria and osteosarcoma. One patient each in the 150 mg/m2 and 240 
mg/m2 cohorts experienced an event of general physical health deterioration. In the 270 mg/m2 
cohort, 1 patient experienced an event of osteosarcoma metastatic. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 51/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20. Summary of Deaths and Causes of Death Category – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Discontinuations 
Study drug discontinuations 
Overall, 11 patients (17%) had a TEAE leading to study drug discontinuation. All TEAEs leading to 
study drug discontinuation were reported in 1 patient each. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the 
study drug leading to study drug discontinuation were reported in 6 patients (9%). All TEAEs related to 
the study drug leading to study drug discontinuation were reported in 1 patient each. 
Dose reductions 
Overall, 10 patients (16%) had a TEAE leading to dose reduction. The majority of TEAEs leading to 
dose reduction were reported in 1 patient each. The only TEAE leading to dose reduction reported in > 
1 patient was neutropaenia (6 patients [9%]). 10 patients (16%) had a TEAE related to the study drug 
leading to dose reduction. The majority of TEAEs related to the study drug leading to dose reduction 
were reported in 1 patient each. The only TEAE related to the study drug leading to dose reduction 
reported in > 1 patient was neutropaenia (6 patients [9%]). 
Study drug interruption 
Overall, 16 patients (25%) had a TEAE leading to study drug interruption. The majority of TEAEs 
leading to study drug interruption were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAEs leading to study drug 
interruption reported in > 1 patient were neutropaenia (9 patients [14%]) and pyrexia (2 patients 
[3%]). In 11 patients (17%) the TEAE leading to study drug interruption was related to the study 
drug. The majority of TEAEs related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption were reported 
in 1 patient each. The only TEAE related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption reported 
in > 1 patient was neutropaenia (8 patients [13%]). 
AEs of special interest 
The criteria used to define the Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI) are described in Appendix 
16.1.9 of the CSR. AESIs for the Phase 1 part are summarised in Table 21. In both Part 1 and Part 2 
there were no reports of cystoid macular oedema, cranial nerve palsies, Steven-Johnson syndrome or 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, infusion site reaction/extravasation, and drug-induced lupus erythematosus 
and these AESIs will therefore not be further discussed in this report. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 52/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 21. Treatment-emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest – Phase 1 (Safety 
Population) 
Myelosuppression 
Grade 3 or 4 myelosuppression AESIs were reported for 45 patients (70%) in Phase 1 and serious 
myelosuppression in 6 patients (9%). Myelosuppression AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation 
were reported for 1 patient (2%), leading to dose reduction for 7 patients (11%), and leading to study 
drug interruption for 9 patients (14%). 
Neutropaenia 
Neutropaenia AESIs were reported for 39 patients (61%), AESI of febrile neutropaenia for 3 patients 
(5%), Grade 3 or 4 neutropaenia AESIs for 36 patients (56%), and serious neutropaenia AESIs for 5 
patients (8%). Neutropaenia AESI led to study drug discontinuation in 1 patient (2%), dose reduction 
in 7 patients (11%), and study drug interruption in 9 patients (14%). No neutropaenia AESIs with an 
outcome of death were reported. The time to first occurrence of Grade 3 or higher neutropaenia is 
presented in Table 22. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 53/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 22. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-emergent Neutropaenia – 
Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Anaemia 
Anaemia AESIs were reported for 37 patients (58%) and Grade 3 or 4 anaemia AESIs for 17 patients 
(27%). There were no reports of anaemia AESI in the serious category, with fatal outcome, leading to 
study drug discontinuation or dose reduction. Anaemia AESIs leading to study drug interruption was 
reported for 1 patient (2%). 
Thrombocytopaenia 
Thrombocytopaenia AESIs were reported for 12 patients (19%), Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytoapaenia 
AESIs for 3 patients (5%), and serious thrombocytopaenia AESIs for 1 patient (2%). None of the 
thrombocytopaenia AESIs led to study drug discontinuation or dose adjustments. No fatal outcomes 
were observed. The time to first occurrence of Grade 3 or higher thrombocytopaenia are shown in 
Table 23. 
Table 23. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-emergent 
Thrombocytopaenia – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Peripheral neuropathy AESIs were reported for 15 patients (23%) and Grade 3 or 4 peripheral 
neuropathy AESIs for 2 patients (3%). Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathies were only seen in the 240 
mg/m2 and 270 mg/m2 cohorts. No serious peripheral neuropathy AESIs or with fatal outcome were 
reported. Peripheral neuropathy AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation were reported for 1 
patient (2%), no dose reductions, and dose interruptions for 1 patient (2%). The overall incidence of 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 54/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Grade 2 or higher peripheral neuropathy and the time to improvement to Grade 1 or better are 
presented in Table 24. 
Table 24. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 2 or Higher Treatment-emergent Peripheral 
Neuropathy and Time to Improvement of CTCAE Grade 2 or Higher Treatment-emergent 
Peripheral Neuropathy to Grade 1 or Better – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Gastrointestinal events 
Gastrointestinal AESIs were reported for 36 patients (56%), Grade 3 or 4 gastrointestinal AESIs for 4 
patients (6%), serious gastrointestinal AESIs for 4 patients (6%), and none with fatal outcome. Study 
drug discontinuation and dose reduction were not reported, study drug interruption in 1 patient (2%). 
Myalgia and arthralgia 
Myalgia and arthralgia AESIs were reported for 14 patients (22%), Grade 3 or 4 for 3 patients (5%), 
and no serious or fatal cases. No dose adjustments were needed. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
In Phase 1 no anaphylactic transfusion reactions were observed. Oedema-related PTs were reported in 
4 patients (6%) periorbital and 2 patients (3%) face. Rash was reported for 1 patient (2%) (Grade 1, 
non-serious, and did not lead to study drug discontinuation, dose reduction, or dose interruption). 
Rash erythematous was reported for 3 patients (5%), which were all Grade 1/2, non-serious and no 
dose adjustments were needed. 
Pneumonitis 
In 1 patient (2%) pneumonitis AESI was reported, which was serious. No Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis or 
pneumonitis with fatal outcome was reported. In 1 patient drug interruption was needed, no study 
drug discontinuation or dose reduction was reported. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 55/92 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic toxicity 
Hepatic toxicity AESIs were reported for 16 patients (25%) and Grade 3 or 4 hepatic toxicity AESIs for 
4 patients (6%). None were serious or had a fatal outcome. No PTs related to more severe hepatic 
toxicity (hepatic failure, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and other liver damage-related conditions) were reported. 
In 1 patient the drug was interrupted, no discontinuations or dose reductions were needed. 
Acute renal failure and haemolytic uremic syndrome 
Acute renal failure AESIs including HUS were reported for 5 patients (8%). No PTs of renal failure 
acute or haemolytic-uremic syndrome were observed. Acute kidney injury was reported for 2 patients 
(3%) and blood creatinine increased for 1 patient (2%; Grade 1, non-serious, no dose modification 
needed). Grade 3 or 4 acute renal failure AESIs including HUS were reported for 2 patients (3%) and 
serious acute renal failure AESIs including HUS for 3 patients (5%). An acute renal failure AESI 
including HUS with an outcome of death was reported for 1 patient (2%) in the Phase 1 group (anuria, 
dose level 1).No dose modifications were needed. 
Clinically severe infections-sepsis 
Clinically severe infections-sepsis AESIs were reported for 1 patient (2%), but no Grade 3 or 4, serious 
or fatal infections-sepsis. No dose modifications were needed. 
Cardiotoxicity 
Cardiotoxicity AESIs were reported for 4 patients (6%), Grade 3 or 4 cardiotoxicity AESIs for 3 patients 
(5%), and serious cardiotoxicity AESI for 1 patient (2%). The PTs reported were primarily related to 
abnormal rhythms. None of the cases were fatal and no dose modifications were observed. 
Congestive heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction 
No case of congestive heart failure and left ventricular dysfunctions was reported in the Phase 1 part. 
Skin toxicity 
Skin toxicity AESIs were reported for 29 patients (45%), Grade 3 or 4 skin toxicity AESIs for 5 patients 
(8%), serious skin toxicity AESIs for 2 patients (3%), and no skin toxicity with fatal outcome. Skin 
toxicity AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation were reported for 2 patients (3%), dose reduction 
for 3 patients (5%), and drug interruption for 1 patient (2%). The time to first occurrence of Grade 2 
and Grade 3 or higher skin toxicity is shown in Table 25. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 56/92 
 
 
 
Table 25. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 2 and Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-emergent 
Skin Toxicity – Phase 1 (Safety Population) 
Laboratory evaluations 
For each of the haematology parameters, the majority of the patients experienced worst CTCAE values 
of Grade 1 or 2, with the exception of lymphocytes with 22 patients (34%) having worst CTCAE values 
of Grade 3 and neutrophils with 21 patients (33%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 4. For each of 
the chemistry parameters, the majority of the patients experienced worst CTCAE values of Grade 1 or 
2. 
The majority of patients did not experience shifts from baseline or maintained or experienced 
improvements from baseline during treatment for haematology and chemistry laboratory parameters. 
There were no SAEs related to laboratory parameters. The majority of clinical laboratory-related TEAEs 
were reported in ≤ 3 patients. Clinical laboratory-related TEAEs reported in > 3 patients were alanine 
aminotransferase increased (9 patients [14%]), aspartate aminotransferase increased (5 patients 
[8%]), and blood alkaline phosphatase increased (5 patients [8%]). 
Vital signs, physical finding and other observations related to safety 
−  Vital signs- The majority of patients had no changes from baseline to the worst classification 
during treatment. No notable changes from baseline in vital sign measurements were observed. 
−  Electocardiogram- The majority of patients had no clinically meaningful changes in ECG overall 
interpretation or ECG values from baseline to the final evaluation. No patients had “abnormal, 
clinically significant” ECG findings at either baseline or worst postbaseline evaluation. No notable 
trends in abnormal postbaseline QTc values were observed. 
−  Left ventricular shortening fraction assessment- Overall, there were few shifts from baseline 
LVSF values and no worst postbaseline visit value was abnormal and clinically significant. The 
majority of patients had no clinically meaningful changes in the LVSF values from baseline to the 
final evaluation. 
−  Lansky and Karnofsky performance status- No notable changes from baseline in Lansky and 
Karnofsky performance status measurements were observed. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 57/92 
 
 
 
 
−  Pregnancy status- No pregnancies were reported in female patients of childbearing potential 
during the study. 
Phase 2 
Extent of exposure 
Exposure to study treatment in Phase 2 is summarised in Table 26. No patients weighing ≤ 10 kg were 
enrolled, so no patients were dosed by mg/kg. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, median treatment duration was 14.0 weeks, with minimum and 
maximum duration 3 and 31 weeks, respectively. The median (range) total number of treatment cycles 
per patient was 4.0 cycles (range: 1 to 6). Four patients (29%) had at least one dose reduction related 
to AEs. The mean time to first dose reduction was 10.4 weeks. Two patients (14%) had at least one 
dose interruption. The mean time to first dose interruption was 8.2 weeks. No dose escalations 
occurred in this group. 
For the neuroblastoma group, median treatment duration was 7.0 weeks, with minimum and maximum 
duration 3 and 23 weeks, respectively. The median (range) total number of treatment cycles per 
patient was 2.0 cycles (range: 1 to 6). Six patients (43%) had at least one dose reduction related to 
AEs. The mean time to first dose reduction was 4.5 weeks. Two patients (14%) had at least one dose 
interruption. The mean time to first dose interruption was 4.3 weeks. No dose escalations occurred in 
this group. 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, median treatment duration was 5.0 weeks, with minimum and 
maximum duration 1 and 13 weeks, respectively. The median (range) total number of treatment cycles 
per patient was 2.0 cycles (range: 1 to 4). Four patients (29%) had at least one dose reduction related 
to AEs. The mean time to first dose reduction was 5.1 weeks. One patient (7%) had at least one dose 
interruption. The mean time to first dose interruption was 2.6 weeks. No dose escalations occurred in 
this group. 
The RP2D group includes all patients in Phase 1 and Phase 2 treated at 240 mg/m2. The median 
treatment duration was 7.0 weeks, with minimum and maximum duration 1 and 31 weeks, 
respectively. The median (range) total number of treatment cycles per patient was 2.0 cycles (range: 
1 to 6). Seventeen patients (34%) had at least one dose reduction related to AEs. The mean time to 
first dose reduction was 6.0 weeks. Eight patients (16%) had at least one dose interruption. The mean 
time to first dose interruption was 4.8 weeks. One patient (2%) had at least one dose escalation. The 
mean time to first dose escalation was 13 weeks. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 58/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 26. Treatment Exposure and Dose Modification – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 59/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
A summary of TEAEs reported during Phase 2 is provided in Table 27. All patients in Phase 2 
experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 14 patients (100%) experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. 
Serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were reported in 6 patients (43%), 12 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 60/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients (86%), and 0 patients (0%), respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug 
were reported in 13 patients (93%). Four patients (29%) experienced a TEAE leading to dose 
reduction, 5 patients (36%) experienced a TEAE leading to drug interruption, and 3 patients (21%) 
experienced a TEAE leading to drug discontinuation. 
For the neuroblastoma group, 14 patients (100%) experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. 
Serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were reported in 6 patients (43%), 13 
patients (93%), and 2 patients (14%), respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study 
drug were reported in 12 patients (86%). Five patients (36%) experienced a TEAE leading to dose 
reduction, 3 patients (21%) experienced a TEAE leading to drug interruption, and 1 patients (7%) 
experienced a TEAE leading to drug discontinuation. 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 14 patients (100%) experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. 
Serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were reported in 11 patients (79%), 
12 patients (86%), and 3 patients (21%), respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study 
drug were reported in 12 patients (86%). Four patients (29%) experienced a TEAE leading to dose 
reduction, 4 patients (29%) experienced a TEAE leading to drug interruption, and 3 patients (21%) 
experienced a TEAE leading to drug discontinuation. 
For the RP2D group, 50 patients (100%) experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. Serious TEAEs, 
Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were reported in 26 patients (52%), 45 patients 
(90%), and 6 patients (12%), respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug were 
reported in 44 patients (88%). Sixteen patients (32%) experienced a TEAE leading to dose reduction, 
15 patients (30%) experienced a TEAE leading to drug interruption, and 9 patients (18%) experienced 
a TEAE leading to drug discontinuation. 
Table 27. Summary of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 61/92 
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of the most frequently reported TEAEs (≥ 20% of patients in any group) during Phase 
2 is provided in Table 28. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, the SOCs with the highest proportion of patients reporting TEAEs 
during Phase 2 were general disorders and administration site conditions (12 patients [86%]), 
gastrointestinal disorders (12 patients [86%]), blood and lymphatic system disorders (11 patients 
[79%]), musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (10 patients [71%]), and nervous system 
disorders (8 patients [57%]). The most frequently reported TEAEs (in > 35% of patients) were 
anaemia (9 patients [64%]), pyrexia (9 patients [64%]), pain in extremity (8 patients [57%]), 
neutropaenia (7 patients [50%]), leukopaenia (6 patients [43%]), and diarrhoea (5 patients [36%]). 
For the neuroblastoma group, the SOCs with the highest proportion of patients reporting TEAEs during 
Phase 2 were blood and lymphatic system disorders (12 patients [86%]), general disorders and 
administration site conditions (8 patients [57%]), and gastrointestinal disorders (8 patients [57%]). 
The most frequently reported TEAEs (in > 35% of patients) were anaemia (9 patients [64%]), 
neutropaenia (8 patients [57%]), leukopaenia (6 patients [43%]), thrombocytopaenia (6 patients 
[43%]), pain in extremity (5 patients [36%]), and headache (5 patients [36%]). 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, the SOCs with the highest proportion of patients reporting TEAEs 
during Phase 2 were blood and lymphatic system disorders (12 patients [86%]), gastrointestinal 
disorders (11 patients [79%]), general disorders and administration site conditions (10 patients 
[71%]), and skin and subcutaneous tissues disorders (8 patients [57%]). The most frequently 
reported TEAEs (in > 35% of patients) were anaemia (9 patients [64%]), neutropaenia (8 patients 
[57%]), leukopaenia (6 patients [43%]), vomiting (6 patients [43%]), constipation (5 patients 
[36%]), nausea (5 patients [36%]), and pyrexia (5 patients [36%]). 
The RP2D group included all patients in Phase 1 and Phase 2 treated at 240 mg/m2. The SOCs with the 
highest proportion of patients reporting TEAEs were blood and lymphatic system disorders (43 patients 
[86%]), general disorders and administration site conditions (38 patients [76%]), gastrointestinal 
disorders (38 patients [76%]), skin and subcutaneous tissues disorders (30 patients [60%]), nervous 
system disorders (27 patients [54%]), and musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (26 
patients [52%]). The most frequently reported TEAEs (in > 35% of patients) were anaemia (33 
patients [66%]), neutropaenia (30 patients [60%]), leukopaenia (23 patients [46%]), pyrexia (23 
patients [46%]), and pain in extremity (20 patients [40%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 62/92 
 
 
 
Table 28. TEAEs by SOC and PT (in at Least 20% of Patients in Any Phase 2 Group) – Phase 
2 (Safety Population) 
The majority of the TEAEs were Grade 1 (40 patients [95%]) and Grade 2 (36 patients [86%]) in 
severity. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in ≥ 2 patients in any Phase 2 group are summarised in Table 
29. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, the majority of the Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 2 patients 
overall. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 2 patients were neutropaenia (6 patients [43%]), 
anaemia (5 patients [36%]), and leukopaenia (5 patients [36%]). Of these, Grade 4 TEAEs were 
reported in 3 patients (21%), none of which were reported in > 2 patients. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 63/92 
 
 
 
 
 
For the neuroblastoma group, the majority of the Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 2 patients 
overall. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 2 patients were anaemia (8 patients [57%]), 
neutropaenia (8 patients [57%]), leukopaenia (6 patients [43%]), and thrombocytopaenia (5 patients 
[36%]). Of these, Grade 4 TEAEs were reported in 8 patients (57%), with the only Grade 4 TEAEs 
reported in > 2 patients being neutropaenia (5 patients [36%]) and thrombocytopaenia (3 patients 
[21%]). 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, the majority of the Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 2 
patients overall. Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 2 patients were anaemia (7 patients 
[50%]), neutropaenia (7 patients [50%]), leukopaenia (5 patients [36%]), and febrile neutropaenia (3 
patients [21%]). Of these, Grade 4 TEAEs were reported in 5 patients (36%), with the only Grade 4 
TEAE reported in > 2 patients being neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]). 
In the RP2D group the majority of the Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 3 patients overall. Grade 
3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 3 patients were neutropaenia (28 patients [56%]), anaemia (22 
patients [44%]), leukopaenia (20 patients [40%]), thrombocytopaenia (8 patients [16%]), and febrile 
neutropaenia (5 patients [10%]). Of these, Grade 4 TEAEs were reported in 21 patients (42%). The 
majority of the Grade 4 TEAEs were reported in ≤ 3 patients overall. Grade 4 TEAEs reported in more 
than 3 patients were neutropaenia (15 patients [30%]), leukopaenia (6 patients [12%]), and 
thrombocytopaenia (6 patients [12%]). 
Table 29. Grade 3 and 4 TEAEs by SOC and PT (in 2 or More Patients in Any Phase 2 Group) – 
Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Treatment-related TEAEs reported in ≥ 10% of patients in any Phase 2 group are summarised in 
Table 30. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, treatment-related TEAEs were reported in 13 patients (93%). The 
most frequently reported treatment-related TEAEs (in > 35% of patients overall) were neutropaenia (7 
patients [50%]), anaemia (6 patients [43%]), and leukopaenia (6 patients [43%]). Treatment-related 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 64/92 
 
 
 
 
Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 3 patients were neutropaenia (6 patients [43%]) and 
leukopaenia (5 patients [36%]). 
For the neuroblastoma group, treatment-related TEAEs were reported in 12 patients (86%). The most 
frequently reported treatment-related TEAEs (in > 35% of patients overall) were neutropaenia (6 
patients [43%]) and anaemia (6 patients [43%]). Treatment-related Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in 
more than 2 patients were neutropaenia (6 patients [43%]), anaemia (5 patients [36%]), and 
leukopaenia (4 patients [29%]). 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, treatment-related TEAEs were reported in 12 patients (86%). The 
most frequently reported treatment-related TEAEs (in > 35% of patients overall) were neutropaenia (8 
patients [57%]), anaemia (6 patients [43%]), and leukopaenia (5 patients [36%]). Treatment-related 
Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 2 patients were neutropaenia (7 patients [50%]), anaemia 
(4 patients [29%]), leukopaenia (4 patients [29%]), and febrile neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]). 
The RP2D group included all patients in Phase 1 and Phase 2 treated at 240 mg/m2. Treatment-related 
TEAEs were reported in 44 patients (88%). The most frequently reported treatment-related TEAEs (in 
> 35% of patients overall) were neutropaenia (27 patients [54%]), anaemia (21 patients [42%]), and 
leukopaenia (19 patients [38%]). Treatment-related Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs reported in more than 3 
patients were neutropaenia (25 patients [50%]), leukopaenia (16 patients [32%]), anaemia (13 
patients [26%]), febrile neutropaenia (5 patients [10%]), and thrombocytopaenia (4 patients [8%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 65/92 
 
 
 
Table 30. TEAEs Related to Study Drug by SOC and PT (in at Least 10% of Patients in Any 
Phase 2 Group) – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
A summary of TEAEs by age group (< 2 years, ≥ 2 years to < 12 years, ≥ 12 years to < 18 years, 
≥18 years to ≤ 24 years) is provided in Table 14.3.1.5. A summary of TEAEs related to the study drug 
by age group is provided in Table 14.3.1.7. Summaries of Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs by age group and Grade 
3 or 4 TEAEs related to the study drug by age group are provided in Table 14.3.1.15 and Table 
14.3.1.17, respectively. The limited numbers of different subgroups however precludes meaningful 
conclusions regarding these TEAEs. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 66/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events 
SAEs 
Serious TEAEs reported during Phase 2 are summarised in Table 31. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 6 patients (43%) experienced at least 1 serious TEAE. The majority of 
serious TEAEs were reported in 1 patient each. Serious TEAEs reported in > 1 patient were 
pneumothorax (2 patients [14%]) and pyrexia (2 patients [14%]). The only treatment-related serious 
TEAE reported in > 1 patient was pyrexia (2 patients [14%]). 
For the neuroblastoma group, 6 patients (43%) experienced at least 1 serious TEAE. The majority of 
serious TEAEs were reported in 1 patient each. Serious TEAEs reported in > 1 patient were general 
physical health deterioration (2 patients [14%]), pyrexia (2 patients [14%]), and thrombocytopaenia 
(2 patients [14%]). No treatment-related serious TEAEs were reported in > 1 patient. 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 11 patients (79%) experienced at least 1 serious TEAE. The 
majority of serious TEAEs were reported in 1 patient each. Serious TEAEs reported in > 1 patient were 
febrile neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]), general physical health deterioration (2 patients [14%]), 
headache (2 patients [14%]), and pyrexia (2 patients [14%]). The only treatment-related serious 
TEAE reported in > 1 patient was febrile neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]). 
The RP2D group included all patients in Phase 1 and Phase 2 treated at 240 mg/m2. Twenty-six 
patients (52%) experienced at least 1 serious TEAE. The majority of serious TEAEs were reported in 1 
patient each. Serious TEAEs reported in > 1 patient were pyrexia (7 patients [14%]), general physical 
health deterioration (5 patients [10%]), febrile neutropaenia (4 patients [8%]), acute kidney injury (2 
patients [4%]), headache (2 patients [4%]), pneumothorax (2 patients [4%]), seizure (2 patients 
[4%]), and thrombocytopaenia (2 patients [4%]). Treatment-related serious TEAEs reported in > 1 
patient were pyrexia (4 patients [8%]) and febrile neutropaenia (4 patients [8%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 67/92 
 
 
 
Table 31. Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class and Preferred 
Term – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 68/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 69/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths 
A summary of deaths and causes of death by category is presented in Table 32. During Phase 2, 6 
patients (43%), 8 patients (57%), and 11 patients (79%) died in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, 
and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively; all were attributed to “death from malignant disease 
under study, or complication due to malignant disease under study.” None of these deaths were 
related to treatment. Five patients experienced TEAEs with the outcome of death during Phase 2. Two 
patients experienced an event of general physical health deterioration due to disease progression (1 
patient each in the neuroblastoma [verbatim term: worsening deterioration due to progression 
disease] and rhabdomyosarcoma [verbatim term: symptomatic deterioration due to progression of 
disease] groups). Two patients experienced an event of general physical health deterioration (1 patient 
each in the neuroblastoma [verbatim term: physical deterioration] and rhabdomyosarcoma [verbatim 
term: symptomatic deterioration] groups). One patient in the rhabdomyosarcoma group experienced 
an event of respiratory failure due to disease progression. 
Table 32. Summary of Deaths and Causes of Death Category – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Discontinuations 
Study drug discontinuations 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 3 patients (21%) had a TEAE leading to study drug discontinuation. 
The TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation were pneumothorax (2 patients [14%]), disease 
progression (1 patient [7%]), peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy (1 patient [7%]), and pleural 
effusion (1 patient [7%]). One patient (7%) had a TEAE (peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy) related 
to the study drug leading to drug discontinuation. 
For the neuroblastoma group, 1 patient (7%) had a TEAE (general physical health deterioration) 
leading to study drug discontinuation. No patients had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to drug 
discontinuation. 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 3 patients (21%) had a TEAE leading to study drug discontinuation. 
The TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation were peripheral sensory neuropathy (2 patients 
[14%]) and neuralgia (1 patient [7%]). In 3 patients (21%) the TEAE leading to drug discontinuation 
was related to the study drug. The TEAEs related to the study drug leading to study drug 
discontinuation were peripheral sensory neuropathy (2 patients [14%]) and neuralgia (1 patient 
[7%]). 
For the RP2D group, 9 patients (18%) had a TEAE leading to study drug discontinuation. The majority 
of TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAEs leading to 
study drug discontinuation reported in > 1 patient were peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy (2 
patients [4%]) and pneumothorax (2 patients [4%]). 6 patients (12%) had a TEAE related to the 
study drug leading to drug discontinuation. The majority of TEAEs related to the study drug leading to 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 70/92 
 
 
 
 
drug discontinuation were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAE related to the study drug leading to 
study drug discontinuation reported in > 1 patient was peripheral sensory neuropathy (2 patients 
[4%]). 
Dose reductions 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 4 patients (29%) had a TEAE leading to dose reduction. The TEAEs 
leading to dose reduction were reported in 1 patient each and were erythema, febrile neutropaenia, 
hyperchromasia, and neutropaenia. 4 patients (29%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to 
dose reduction. The TEAEs related to the study drug leading to dose reduction were reported in 1 
patient each and were erythema, febrile neutropaenia, hyperchromasia, and neutropaenia. 
For the neuroblastoma group, 5 patients (36%) had a TEAE leading to dose reduction. The TEAEs 
leading to dose reduction were neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]), stomatitis (1 patient [7%]), and 
thrombocytopaenia (1 patient [7%]). 4 patients (29%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to 
dose reduction. The TEAEs related to the study drug leading to dose reduction were neutropaenia (3 
patients [21%]) and stomatitis (1 patient [7%]). 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 4 patients (29%) had a TEAE leading to dose reduction. The TEAEs 
leading to dose reduction were neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]), febrile neutropaenia (1 patient 
[7%]), peripheral sensory neuropathy (1 patient [7%]), and thrombocytopaenia (1 patient [7%]). 4 
patients (29%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to dose reduction. The TEAEs related to 
the study drug leading to dose reduction were neutropaenia (3 patients [21%]), febrile neutropaenia 
(1 patient [7%]), peripheral sensory neuropathy (1 patient [7%]), and thrombocytopaenia (1 patient 
[7%]). 
For the RP2D group, 16 patients (32%) had a TEAE leading to dose reduction. The majority of TEAEs 
leading to dose reduction were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAEs leading to dose reduction 
reported in > 1 patient were neutropaenia (9 patients [18%]), febrile neutropaenia (2 patients [4%]), 
and thrombocytopaenia (2 patients [4%]). In 15 patients (30%) the TEAE leading to dose reduction 
was related to the study drug. The majority of TEAEs related to the study drug leading to dose 
reduction were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAEs related to the study drug leading to dose 
reduction reported in > 1 patient were neutropaenia (9 patients [18%]) and febrile neutropaenia (2 
patients [4%]). 
Study drug interruption 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 5 patients (36%) had a TEAE leading to study drug interruption. The 
TEAEs leading to study drug interruption were reported in 1 patient each and were gamma-
glutamyltransferase increased, neuralgia, rash maculo-papular, pneumonitis, pruritus, and pyrexia. 3 
patients (21%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption. The TEAEs 
related to the study drug leading to dose interruption were reported in 1 patient each and were 
gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, neuralgia, rash maculo-papular, and pruritus. 
For the neuroblastoma group, 3 patients (21%) had a TEAE leading to study drug interruption. The 
TEAEs leading to study drug interruption were skin exfoliation (2 patients [14%]), dizziness (1 patient 
[7%]), dyspnoea (1 patient [7%]), erythema (1 patient [7%]), neuralgia (1 patient [7%]), 
neutropaenia (1 patient [7%]), tremor (1 patient [7%]), and varicella (1 patient [7%]). 3 patients 
(21%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption. The TEAEs related to 
the study drug leading to study drug interruption were skin exfoliation (2 patients [14%]), dizziness (1 
patient [7%]), dyspnoea (1 patient [7%]), erythema (1 patient [7%]), neuralgia (1 patient [7%]), 
neutropaenia (1 patient [7%]), and tremor (1 patient [7%]). 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 71/92 
 
 
 
For the rhabdomyosarcoma group, 4 patients (29%) had a TEAE leading to study drug interruption. 
The TEAEs leading to study drug interruption were reported in 1 patient each and were increased 
intracranial pressure, neutropaenia, rash maculo-papular, respiratory failure, and thrombocytopaenia. 
2 patients (14%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption. The TEAEs 
related to the study drug leading to dose interruption were reported in 1 patient each and were 
neutropaenia, rash maculo-papular, and thrombocytopaenia. 
For the RP2D group, 15 patients (30%) had a TEAE leading to study drug interruption. The majority of 
TEAEs leading to study drug interruption were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAEs leading to study 
drug interruption reported in > 1 patient were neutropaenia (5 patients [10%]), neuralgia (2 patients 
[4%]), rash maculo-papular (2 patients [4%]), and skin exfoliation (2 patients [4%]). 11 patients 
(22%) had a TEAE related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption. The majority of TEAEs 
related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption were reported in 1 patient each. The TEAEs 
related to the study drug leading to study drug interruption reported in > 1 patient were neutropaenia 
(5 patients [10%]), neuralgia (2 patients [4%]), rash maculo-papular (2 patients [4%]), and skin 
exfoliation (2 patients [4%]). 
AEs of special interest 
Adverse events of special interest (AESI) for the Phase 2 part are summarised in Table 33. 
Table 33. Treatment-emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest – Phase 2 (Safety 
Population) 
Myelosuppression 
Grade 3 or 4 myelosuppression AESIs were reported for 10 patients (71%), 13 patients (93%), 10 
patients (71%), and 41 patients (82%) in Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and 
RP2D groups, respectively. Serious myelosuppression AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%), 2 
patients (14%), 4 patients (29%), and 7 patients (14%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 72/92 
 
 
 
 
rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. None of the cases had a fatal outcome. Study drug 
discontinuation was reported in 1 patient (2%) in the RP2D group. Dose reduction were reported for 2 
patients (14%), 4 patients (29%), 3 patients (21%), and 12 patients (24%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, 
neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Study drug interruption were seen for 1 patient 
(7%), 2 patients (14%), and 6 patients (12%) in the neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D 
groups. 
Neutropenia 
Neutropenia AESIs were reported for 7 patients (50%), 10 patients (71%), 9 patients (64%), and 33 
patients (66%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. The AESI of febrile neutropenia was seen in 1 patient (7%), 3 patients (21%), and 5 
patients (10%) in Ewing’s sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia 
AESIs were reported for 6 patients (43%), 10 patients (71%), 8 patients (57%), and 31 patients 
(62%) in Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Serious 
neutropenia AESIs were seen in 1 patient (7%), 4 patients (29%), and 5 patients (10%) in Ewing’s 
sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, respectively. No fatal cases were observed. 
Neutropenia AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation was reported for 1 patient (2%) in the RP2D 
group. Neutropenia AESIs leading to dose reduction were reported for 2 patients (14%), 3 patients 
(21%), 3 patients (21%), and 11 patients (22%) in Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, 
rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Study drug interruption was reported for 1 patient (7%), 1 
patient (7%), and 5 patients (10%) in the neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. The time to first occurrence of Grade 3 or higher neutropenia is shown in Table 34. 
Table 34. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-emergent Neutropaenia – 
Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Anaemia 
Anaemia AESIs were reported for 9 patients (64%), 9 patients (64%), 9 patients (64%), and 33 
patients (66%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. Grade 3 or 4 anaemia AESIs were reported for 5 patients (36%), 8 patients (57%), 7 
patients (50%), and 22 patients (44%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, 
and RP2D groups. No serious or fatal anaemia AESIs were observed. Study drug discontinuation or 
dose reductions were not needed. Anaemia AESIs leading to study drug interruption was reported for 1 
patient (2%) in the RP2D group (which was also in the Phase 1 group). 
Thrombocytopaenia 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 73/92 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopaenia AESIs were reported for 6 patients (43%), 3 patients (21%), and 11 patients 
(22%) in the neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, respectively. Grade 3 or 4 
thrombocytopaenia AESIs were described for 5 patients (36%), 2 patients (14%), and 8 patients 
(16%) in the neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Serious thrombocytopaenia AESIs 
were reported for 2 patients (14%), and 2 patients (4%) in the neuroblastoma, and RP2D groups. 
There were no fatal cases. No thrombocytopaenia AESIs led to study drug discontinuation. Dose 
reductions were reported for 1 patient (7%), 1 patient (7%), and 2 patients (4%) in the 
neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and the RP2D groups, respectively. Thrombocytopaenia AESIs 
leading to study drug interruption were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in the 
rhabdomyosarcoma and RP2D groups. The time to first occurrence of Grade 3 or higher 
thrombocytopaenia in Phase 1 and 2 is presented Table 35. 
Table 35. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-emergent 
Thrombocytopaenia – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Peripheral neuropathy AESIs were presented in 4 patients (29%), 1 patient (7%), 3 patients (21%), 
and 13 patients (26%) in Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy AESIs were reported for 2 patients (14%), and 3 
patients (6%) in rhabdomyosarcoma and RP2D groups. No serious or fatal peripheral neuropathy 
AESIs were reported. Peripheral neuropathy AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation were reported 
for 1 patient (7%), 3 patients (21%), and 5 patients (10%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, 
rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Dose reductions was observed in 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient 
(2%) in the rhabdomyosarcoma and RP2D groups. Drug interruption was observed in 1 patient (7%), 1 
patient (7%), and 3 patients (6%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and RP2D groups. The 
overall incidence of Grade 2 or higher peripheral neuropathy and the time to improvement to Grade 1 
or better peripheral neuropathy are presented in Table 36. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 74/92 
 
 
 
 
Table 36. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 2 or Higher Treatment-emergent Peripheral 
Neuropathy and Time to Improvement of CTCAE Grade 2 or Higher Treatment-emergent 
Peripheral Neuropathy to Grade 1 or Better – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Gastrointestinal events 
Gastrointestinal AESIs were reported for 9 patients (64%), 6 patients (43%), 9 patients (64%), and 29 
patients (58%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. Grade 3 or 4 gastrointestinal AESIs were seen in 1 patient (7%), 1 patient (7%), and 2 
patients (4%) in the neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, respectively. Serious 
gastrointestinal AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%), and 1 patient (2%) in the neuroblastoma and 
RP2D groups. None of the cases were fatal. Study drug discontinuations, dose reduction or drug 
interruptions were not reported. 
Myalgia and arthralgia 
Myalgia and arthralgia AESIs were reported for 3 patients (21%) and 5 patients (10%) in the Ewing’s 
sarcoma and RP2D groups. None of the cases were Grade 3 or 4, serious or fatal. Also no dose 
adjustments were needed. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Anaphylactic transfusion reaction was reported in 1 patient (7%) in the rhabdomyosarcoma group, who 
was also classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]). The event was serious, Grade 3, and did not 
lead to study drug discontinuation, dose reduction, or dose interruption. Periorbital oedema was 
reported for 1 patient (7%), 2 patients (14%), and 3 patients (6%) in the neuroblastoma, 
rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, respectively. All events were Grade 1 or 2, non-serious, and did 
not lead to study drug discontinuation, dose reduction, or dose interruption. Face oedema presented in 
1 patient (7%), 1 patient (7%), and 2 patients (4%) in the neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and 
RP2D groups. All events were Grade 1, non-serious, and did not lead to study drug discontinuation, 
dose reduction, or dose interruption. Eyelid oedema was reported for 1 patient (7%) in the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group, who was also classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]. The event was 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 75/92 
 
 
 
 
Grade 2, non-serious, and did not lead to study drug discontinuation, dose reduction, or dose 
interruption. Rash erythematous was reported for 1 patient (7%) in the neuroblastoma group. The 
neuroblastoma patient was also classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]). The event was Grade 1, 
non-serious, and did not lead to study drug discontinuation, dose reduction, or dose interruption. A 
hypersensitivity reaction AESI with an outcome of death (respiratory failure) was reported for 1 patient 
with rhabdomyosarcoma (7%), who was also classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]). The event 
of respiratory failure was described as related to disease progression from pulmonary metastasis. 
Pneumonitis 
Pneumonitis AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%), and 1 patient (2%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, and 
RP2D groups, respectively. No Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis AESIs were reported, as also was the case for 
serious or fatal pneumonitis. No pneumonitis led to study drug discontinuation or dose reduction. 
Pneumonitis AESIs leading to study drug interruption were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient 
(2%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma and RP2D groups. 
Hepatic toxicity 
Hepatic toxicity AESIs were reported for 2 patients (14%), 2 patients (14%), 2 patients (14%), and 7 
patients (14%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. No PTs related to more severe hepatic toxicity (hepatic failure, fibrosis, cirrhosis, and 
other liver damage-related conditions) were reported. Grade 3 or 4 hepatic toxicity AESIs were 
reported for 1 patient (7%), 1 patient (7%), 1 patient (7%), and 4 patients (8%) in the Ewing’s 
sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. No serious or fatal hepatic toxicity 
AESIs were observed. Study drug discontinuation and dose reduction were not seen. Hepatic toxicity 
AESIs leading to study drug interruption were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in the 
Ewing’s sarcoma and RP2D groups. 
Acute renal failure and haemolytic uremic syndrome 
Acute renal failure AESIs including HUS were reported for 2 patients (14%), 1 patient (7%), 2 patients 
(14%), and 5 patients (10%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D 
groups, respectively. No PTs of renal failure acute or haemolytic-uremic syndrome were reported. 
Acute kidney injury was reported for 1 patient (7%), 1 patient (7%), and 2 patients (4%) in the 
Ewing’s sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. Blood creatinine increased was observed in 1 
patient (7%) in the rhabdomyosarcoma group. s, respectively. The patient with rhabdomyosarcoma 
was also classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]) and the event was Grade 1, non-serious, and 
did not lead to study drug discontinuation, dose reduction, or interruption. Grade 3 or 4 acute renal 
failure AESIs including HUS were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in the neuroblastoma 
and RP2D groups. Serious acute renal failure AESIs including HUS presented in 1 patient (7%), 1 
patient (7%), and 2 patients (4%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. 
None of the cases were fatal. Study drug discontinuations, dose reductions or study drug interruptions 
were not observed. 
Clinically severe infections-sepsis 
Clinically severe infections-sepsis AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in the 
neuroblastoma and RP2D groups. Grade 3 or 4 clinically severe infections-sepsis AESIs were reported 
for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in the neuroblastoma and RP2D groups. Serious clinically severe 
infections-sepsis AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in the neuroblastoma and 
RP2D groups. No fatal cases were observed. No dose modifications were needed. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 76/92 
 
 
 
Cardiotoxicity 
Cardiotoxicity AESIs presented in 1 patient (7%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma group, which was also 
classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]). The PTs reported were primarily related to abnormal 
rhythms. No Grade 3 or 4, serious or fatal cases were seen. No dose modifications were needed. 
Congestive heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction 
Congestive heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction AESIs was reported for 1 patient (7%) in the 
Ewing’s sarcoma group, which was also classified in the RP2D group (1 patient [2%]). No Grade 3 or 4, 
serious or fatal cases were seen. No dose modifications were needed. 
Skin toxicity 
Skin toxicity AESIs were reported for 7 patients (50%), 7 patients (50%), 7 patients (50%), and 27 
patients (54%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups, 
respectively. The most frequently reported skin toxicity AESIs (≥ 10% of patients in the Overall group 
including Phase 1) were erythema (13 patients [12%]) and pruritus generalised (12 patients [11%]). 
Grade 3 or 4 skin toxicity AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 2 patients (4%) in the Ewing’s 
sarcoma and RP2D groups. Serious skin toxicity AESIs were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 2 patients 
(4%) in the neuroblastoma and RP2D groups. No skin toxicity AESIs with an outcome of death were 
reported. Skin toxicity AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation were not observed. Dose reduction 
were reported for 1 patient (7%) and 1 patient (2%) in Ewing’s sarcoma and RP2D groups. Study drug 
interruption were observed in 2 patients (14%), 2 patients (14%), 1 patient (7%), and 5 patients 
(10%) in the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and RP2D groups. The time to 
first occurrence of Grade 2 and Grade 3 or higher skin toxicity is presented in Table 37. 
Table 37. Time to First Occurrence of Grade 2 and Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-emergent 
Skin Toxicity – Phase 2 (Safety Population) 
Laboratory evaluations 
In the Ewing’s sarcoma group for each of the haematology parameters, the majority of the patients 
experienced worst CTCAE values of Grade 1 or 2, with the exception of leukocytes with 8 patients 
(57%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 3 and 1 patient (7%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 77/92 
 
 
 
 
4; and neutrophils with 7 patients (50%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 3 and 2 patients (14%) 
having worst CTCAE values of Grade 4. 
In the neuroblastoma group for each of the haematology parameters, the majority of the patients 
experienced worst CTCAE values of Grade 1 or 2 with the exception of haemoglobin with 9 patients 
(64%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 3; leukocytes with 6 patients (43%) having worst CTCAE 
values of Grade 3 and 2 patients (14%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 4; and neutrophils with 4 
patients (29%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 3 and 6 patients (43%) having worst CTCAE 
values of Grade 4. 
In the rhabdomyosarcoma group for each of the haematology parameters, the majority of the patients 
experienced worst CTCAE values of Grade 1 or 2 with the exception of haemoglobin with 5 patients 
(36%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 3; leukocytes with 5 patients (36%) having worst CTCAE 
values of Grade 3 and 3 patients (21%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 4; and neutrophils with 4 
patients (29%) having worst CTCAE values of Grade 3 and 4 patients (29%) having worst CTCAE 
values of Grade 4. 
For each of the chemistry parameters, the majority of the patients experienced worst CTCAE values of 
Grade 1 or 2 in all groups. The majority of patients did not experience shifts from baseline or 
maintained or experienced improvements from baseline during treatment for haematology and 
chemistry laboratory parameters. 
There were no SAEs related to laboratory parameters reported. For both the Ewing’s sarcoma and 
rhabdomyosarcoma groups, all clinical laboratory-related TEAEs were reported in 1 patient each. For 
the neuroblastoma group, the majority of clinical laboratory-related TEAEs were reported in 1 patient 
each, except the event of aspartate aminotransferase increased (2 patients [14%]). 
Vital signs, physical finding and other observations related to safety 
−  Vital signs- The majority of patients had no changes from baseline to the worst classification 
during treatment. No notable changes from baseline in vital sign measurements were observed. 
−  Electrocardiogram- The majority of patients had no clinically meaningful changes in ECG overall 
interpretation or ECG values from baseline to the final evaluation. No patients had “abnormal, 
clinically significant” ECG findings at either baseline or worst post baseline evaluation. No notable 
trends in abnormal post baseline QTc values were observed. 
−  Left ventricular shortening fraction assessment- There were few shifts from baseline LVEF 
values and no worst post baseline visit value was abnormal and clinically significant. The majority 
of patients had no clinically meaningful changes in the LVEF values from baseline to the final 
evaluation. 
−  Lansky and Karnofsky performance status- No notable changes from baseline in Lansky and 
Karnofsky performance status measurements were observed. 
−  Pregnancy status- No pregnancies were reported in female patients of childbearing potential 
during the study. 
Updated 1-year survival follow-up 
At the time of the first database cutoff date of 05 Dec 2017, a total of 10 patients (6 patients in the 
Ewing’s sarcoma group, 3 patients in the neuroblastoma group, and 1 patient in the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group) were ongoing in the survival follow-up period. As of the final database 
cutoff date of 06 Nov 2018, all patients had completed the 1-year survival follow-up period or 
discontinued from the study. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 78/92 
 
 
 
Median overall survival results observed at the final database cutoff date were similar to those seen at 
the first database cutoff date. At the 06 Nov 2018 cutoff date, the median overall survival was 32.1 
weeks, 32.0 weeks, and 19.6 weeks for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma 
groups, respectively, versus the median overall survival of 32.1 weeks, 26.7 weeks, and 19.6 weeks 
for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively, at the 05 Dec 
2017 database cutoff. Median duration of response and progression-free survival results remained 
unchanged between the two database cutoff dates. 
Data collection for TEAEs had been completed by the time of the first database cutoff date. Thus, no 
new safety concerns emerged during the remaining follow-up period for the 10 patients ongoing in the 
study on 05 Dec 2017. 
During the 1-year follow-up period, an additional 5 patients from the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 2 
patients from the neuroblastoma group, and 1 patient from the rhabdomyosarcoma group died. 
Similarly to what had been reported for the deaths recorded until the first database cutoff date, these 
patient deaths were attributed to “death from malignant disease under study, or complication due to 
malignant disease under study”. In total, eleven patients (79%) from the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 10 
patients (71%) from the neuroblastoma sarcoma group, and 12 patients (86%) from the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group died during the study. 
4.3.4.  Discussion 
Background 
nab-Paclitaxel (also called Abraxane or ABI-007) is a protein formulation of a noncrystalline, 
amorphous form of paclitaxel in an insoluble particle state and was designed to improve the 
chemotherapeutic effects of paclitaxel and decrease toxicity. nab-Paclitaxel is approved in adults for 
the treatment of metastatic breast cancer (monotherapy), metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas 
(in combination with gemcitabine), and first-line treatment of NSCLC (in combination with carboplatin). 
The most common clinically significant adverse reactions associated with the use of nab-paclitaxel in 
adults are neutropaenia, peripheral neuropathy, arthralgia/myalgia, and gastrointestinal disorders. 
In this type II variation, the results of the paediatric ABI-007-PST-001 study are submitted. The 
Applicant updated the SmPC to reflect these results, but does not apply for an indication in the 
paediatric population. ABI-007-PST-001 was a Phase 1/2 study designed to establish the 
recommended dose of nab-paclitaxel in the paediatric population (phase 1) and to determine its clinical 
activity in three distinct paediatric solid tumour types (Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and 
rhabdomyosarcoma; phase 2). 
At 14 August 2018 the PDCO accepted a modification of an agreed paediatric investigation plan for 
nab-paclitaxel (EMEA-001308-PIP01-12-M02) based on the results of ABI-PST-001. The Applicant 
requested to discontinue the currently agreed paediatric development due to lack of efficacy. The 
PDCO agreed that given the results of study ABI-PST-001 it is very unlikely that the product can be 
useful for the paediatric tumours considered. The proposal not to continue the development appeared 
reasonable to the PDCO. Studies planning to investigate nab-paclitaxel as add-on to best standard of 
anti-cancer therapy were therefore deleted. 
Efficacy 
Phase 1 
The primary objective of the Phase 1 portion of the study was to determine the maximum tolerated 
dose (MTD)/recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) in paediatric patients (≥6 months and <18 years) with 
recurrent or  refractory solid tumours who progressed on standard therapy or for whom no standard 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 79/92 
 
 
 
anticancer therapy existed. The Phase 1 portion used a rolling-6 dose escalation and six dose levels of 
nab-paclitaxel were tested: 120 mg/m2 (n=16), 150 mg/m2 (n=8), 180 mg/m2 (n=14), 210 mg/m2 
(n=11), 240 mg/m2 (n=8), and 270 mg/m2 (n=7), with a total of 64 patients enrolled. Of these, 37 
patients (58%) constituted the Dose-determining Set (DDS) including 6 patients in each dose level 
except for 270 mg/m2, which included 7 patients. 
All patients discontinued from the study. The most frequently reported reasons for study treatment 
discontinuation were progressive disease, AE, and symptomatic deterioration. A total of 13 patients 
completed the 1-year survival follow-up portion of the study, 50 patients died prior to 1 year, and 1 
patient was lost to follow-up. 
The Phase 1 patients were 2 years to 17 years old, and predominantly in the age category 12–17 years 
(n=37, 58%), with the following diagnosis: rhabdomyosarcoma (n=14, 22%), Ewing’s sarcoma (n=13, 
20%), neuroblastoma (n=10, 16%), osteosarcoma (n=8, 13%), Wilm’s tumour (n=4, 6%), 
hepatoblastoma (n=3, 5%), and other tumours (less than 3 patients). These patients received 1 to 12 
cycles (median 2 cycles) of nab-paclitaxel. 
The primary endpoint of Phase 1 was to determine the incidence of DLTs and TEAEs in paediatric 
patients who received nab-paclitaxel. The 240 mg/m2 dose level was selected as the RP2D. The safety 
profile will be further discussed in the safety section. 
The secondary endpoint was ORR and best overall response based on RECIST version 1.1. The Efficacy 
Evaluable Population included 59 patients. The ORR was 3.4%, with 1 patient with rhabdomyosarcoma 
in the 240 mg/m2 (lasting 8.6 weeks) cohort and 1 Ewing’s sarcoma patient in the 270 mg/m2 cohort 
(lasting 38.1 weeks) having had a confirmed PR. There were 5 unconfirmed best responses, with 1 CR 
and 4 PRs. The unconfirmed CR was observed in 1 patient in the 210 mg/m2 cohort. The unconfirmed 
PRs were observed in the 240 mg/m2 (3 patients) and 270 mg/m2 (1 patient) cohorts. 
Phase 2 
The primary objective of the Phase 2 portion was to  evaluate the anti-tumour activity of nab-paclitaxel 
administered at the RP2D in paediatric patients (≥6 months and ≤24 years) with recurrent or refractory 
neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and Ewing’s sarcoma. Phase 2 implemented a two-stage 
enrollment design where patients were to be recruited in each of the 3 cohorts. Initiation of Stage 2 
was based on the review of predefined efficacy results of Stage 1. The protocol design required ≥ 2 
responders (i.e., patients with a confirmed CR or PR) based on RECIST version 1.1 (and/or MIBG for 
the neuroblastoma patients) in the first 14 patients in the Efficacy Evaluable Population for the disease 
group to proceed to Stage 2. During Stage 2, enrollment was expanded to include up to 23 patients 
per disease group. This requirement was not met in any of the 3 cohorts. The study did not proceed to 
Stage 2 and ended with 14 enrolled and treated patients in each of the 3 groups. 
The Phase 2 portion of the study enrolled 42 patients aged 1 year to 24 years, predominantly 2 to less 
than 12 years old (n=27) and 12 to less than 18 years (n=12). During the study, patients received 1 to 
6 cycles of nab-paclitaxel at the recommended dose of 240 mg/m2 administered weekly for 3 weeks in 
a 28-day cycle. The median number of nab-paclitaxel cycles administered was higher in Ewing’s 
sarcoma patients (4.0) than in neuroblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma patients (2.0). All but 1 
patients in the Ewing’s sarcoma group were Efficacy Evaluable. All patients discontinued, mostly due to 
PD. 
One patient in the rhabdomyosarcoma group had a confirmed PR resulting in an ORR of 7.1% (95% 
CI: 0.2, 33.9). The response lasted 6.14 weeks. No confirmed CR or PR was observed in either the 
Ewing’s sarcoma group or the neuroblastoma group based on RECIST version 1.1 and/or MIBG 
response (neuroblastoma group only). There were 5 unconfirmed PRs reported: 3 patients (21.4%) 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 80/92 
 
 
 
and 2 patients (15.4%) in the rhabdomyosarcoma and Ewing’s sarcoma groups, respectively. 
Responses were not confirmed due to no subsequent tumour evaluations or because PD developed 
after an initial response. No unconfirmed best response of CR or PR was seen in the neuroblastoma 
group based on RECIST version 1.1 and/or MIBG response. Disease control rate was 30.8% (4 
patients; 95% CI: 9.1, 61.4) for the Ewing’s sarcoma group; 7.1% (1 patient; 95% CI: 0.2, 33.9) for 
the neuroblastoma group; and 7.1% (1 patient; 95% CI: 0.2, 33.9) for the rhabdomyosarcoma group. 
Of note, there was one patient in the Ewing’s sarcoma group that had an unconfirmed best response of 
PR, but also met the criteria of confirmed SD ≥ 16 weeks and was therefore counted in the DCR rate 
as SD. Median PFS was 13 weeks (95% CI: 7.4, 16.1) for the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 7.4 weeks (95% 
CI: 4.6, 8.1) for the neuroblastoma group, and 5.1 weeks (95% CI: 2.1, 7.9) for the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group. The estimated Kaplan-Meier overall survival at 1 year was 48% (95% CI: 
14, 76), 25% (95% CI: 4, 54), and 15% (95% CI: 2, 39) for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and 
rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively. The median overall survival was 32.1 weeks, 26.7 weeks, 
and 19.6 weeks for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, 
respectively. At the time of data cutoff 10 patients were still in survival follow-up. Median overall 
survival results observed at the final database cutoff date were similar to those seen at the first 
database cutoff date. At the 06 Nov 2018 cutoff date, the median overall survival was 32.1 weeks, 
32.0 weeks, and 19.6 weeks for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups. 
In conclusion, based on this Phase 1/2 study with an acceptable study design nab-paclitaxel 
monotherapy seems to have limited anti-tumour activity in the studied paediatric tumours. The low 
response rate implies that no clinical benefit of nab-paclitaxel in the paediatric population is to be 
expected. Although the use of nab-paclitaxel as add-on therapy might have activity it is agreed with 
the PDCO that further development of nab-paclitaxel in the paediatric population does not seem 
justified. The demonstrated results cannot support an indication in children and the approach to update 
the SmPC to reflect the results of the study is supported, as information in the SmPC regarding the 
results in paediatric patients is considered important for physicians. Theoretically physicians might 
consider to prescribe nab-paclitaxel because of the high unmet medical need in solid paediatric 
tumours, the higher dosing due to lower toxicity than classical taxanes, and the off label use of 
docetaxel in Ewing’s sarcoma, osteosarcoma, and other recurrent/refractory solid tumours. 
Safety 
Phase 1 
Overall, 2 patients (5%) experienced a protocol-defined DLT during Phase 1. One patient in the 120 
mg/m2 cohort experienced Grade 3 dizziness that lasted 19 days, which met the DLT definition of 
Grade 3 or 4 non-haematologic toxicity. One patient in the 270 mg/m2 cohort experienced Grade 4 
neutropaenia that lasted 13 days, which met the DLT definition of Grade 4 uncomplicated neutropaenia 
lasting >7 days. The DMC established the RP2D, 240 mg/m2, after reviewing the safety data from the 
270 mg/m2 cohort where one DLT was reported combined with an increase in skin toxicity events in 
this cohort. 
Overall, all 64 patients (100%) experienced at least 1 TEAE during the study. Serious TEAEs, Grade 3 
or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were reported in 55%, 88%, and 8%, respectively. All deaths 
were contributed to the malignant disease under study. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study 
drug were reported in 92%. 16% experienced a TEAE leading to dose reduction, 25% had a TEAE 
leading to drug interruption, and 17% had a TEAE leading to drug discontinuation. The low number of 
patients in each cohort precludes meaningful conclusions regarding any dose-dependent trends, but 
the number of dose reductions seemed to increase with increasing dosing.  
The most frequently reported TEAEs were neutropaenia, anaemia, pyrexia, and leukopaenia. The 
incidence of neutropaenia and thrombocytopaenia appeared to increase as the dose escalated. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 81/92 
 
 
 
Peripheral neuropathy was reported in 23%, Grade 3 or 4 in 3%. Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathies 
were only seen in the 240 mg/m2 and 270 mg/m2 cohorts. 
Phase 2 
In Phase 2, all patients experienced an TEAE. The majority of the TEAEs were Grade 1 (95%) and 
Grade 2 (86%) in severity. All deaths were attributed to “death from malignant disease under study, or 
complication due to malignant disease under study0.” None of these deaths were related to treatment. 
Next, the separate groups will be described in more detail. 
For the Ewing’s sarcoma group, serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were 
reported in 43%, 86%, and 0%, respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug were 
reported in 93%. TEAEs led to dose reduction in 29%, drug interruption in 36%, and discontinuation in 
21%. The most frequently reported TEAEs were anaemia, pain in extremity, neutropaenia, 
leukopaenia, and diarrhoea. Peripheral neuropathy was presented 29%, none was Grade 3 or 4, and 
7% led to study drug discontinuation. 
For the neuroblastoma group, serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were 
reported in 43%, 93%, and 14%, respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug 
were reported in 86%. Dose reduction due to a TEAE was seen in 36%, drug interruption in 21%, and 
drug discontinuation in 7%. Anaemia, neutropaenia, leukopaenia, thrombocytopaenia, pain in 
extremity, and headache were the most frequently reported TEAEs. Peripheral neuropathy was 
observed in 7%, none was Grade 3 or 4 or led to study drug discontinuation. 
In the rhabdomyosarcoma group, serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were 
reported in 79%, 86%, and 21%, respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug 
were reported in 86%. 29% experienced a TEAE leading to dose reduction, 29% leading to drug 
interruption, and 21% leading to drug discontinuation. The most frequently reported TEAEs were 
anaemia, neutropaenia, leukopaenia, vomiting, constipation, nausea, and pyrexia. Peripheral 
neuropathy was seen in 21%, Grade 3 or 4 in 14%, and study drug discontinuation in 21%. 
The RP2D group included all patients in Phase 1 and Phase 2 treated at 240 mg/m2 (n=50). For the 
RP2D group, serious TEAEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, and TEAEs leading to death were reported in 52%, 
90%, and 12%, respectively. Treatment-emergent AEs related to the study drug were reported in 
88%. In 32% the TEAE led to dose reduction, 30% to drug interruption, and 18% to drug 
discontinuation. Most frequently reported TEAEs were anaemia, neutropaenia, leukopaenia, pyrexia, 
and pain in extremity. Peripheral neuropathy presented in 26%, Grade 3 or 4 in 6%, and led to study 
drug discontinuation in 10%. 
The limited numbers per tumour group hamper proper comparisons, but there does not seem to be 
large differences in the toxicity profiles between the investigated tumour types. Also the comparison 
with the approved indications in the adult population is difficult due the combination with other 
chemotherapeutics used in adults (pancreatic carcinoma, NSCLC) or the different treatment schedule 
for monotherapy (Q3W in adult breast cancer versus QW in the paediatric study). However, based on 
the provided safety results, the TEAE profile in the paediatric population seems to be consistent with 
the expected events reported in adult patients and no new safety signals were detected. Most 
frequently reported AEs were related to cytopaenia with neutropaenia, anaemia, and leukopaenia. It 
was noted that the recommended dose of nab-paclitaxel in the paediatric population is higher than the 
one established for adults, in whom a dose of 150 mg/m2 was selected for administration as a single 
agent in a weekly schedule for 3 weeks in a 28-day cycle. In adults, the DLT at higher doses of nab-
paclitaxel was neuropathy (25% of adult patients who received 150 mg/m2 nab-paclitaxel in a Phase 3 
metastatic melanoma study had at least 1 Grade ≥ 3 event of neuropathy). In the paediatric 
population, peripheral neuropathy was manageable at 240 mg/m2. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 82/92 
 
 
 
5.  Request for supplementary information 
  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
1.  The planned non-compartmental and POP-PK methods to establish PK are in general acceptable. 
However, no validation, bioanalytical, statistical or POP-PK reports were submitted. The applicant 
should submit these reports. 
2.  The non-linearity in PK is suggested as being due to saturation of clearance and this is 
incorporated into the PopPK model, but apparently inconsistent with this, the clearance increases 
with dose and exposure decreases, or at least at the highest dose. In the literature it has also been 
postulated that there is also saturable tissue uptake 
(https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/jco.1994.12.3.532). The applicant should provide a 
discussion whether this additional non-linear process would explain the presented data and should 
be included in the model. If deemed necessary after discussion, the model should be updated with 
this process. 
3.  The Applicant is asked how the number of 4 patients with DCR is calculated in the Ewing’s sarcoma 
group, since the results show only 3 patients with SD ≥16 weeks and no patients with confirmed 
CR or PR. 
4.  The Applicant is asked when the final report with the completed 1 year-survival follow-up is 
expected to be submitted. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 83/92 
 
 
 
 
6.  Assessment of the responses to the request for 
supplementary information 
6.1.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
Question 1 
The planned non-compartmental and population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) methods to establish 
pharmacokinetics (PK) are in general acceptable. However, no validation, bioanalytical, statistical or 
PopPK reports were submitted. The applicant should submit these reports. 
Summary of the MAH’s response 
The reports related to PK analysis and validation of bioanalytical methods are listed below and included 
in Section 5.3.1.4 and Section 5.3.3.5 of the electronic common technical document (eCTD). 
•  ABI-007-PST-001-BA – Study title: Pharmacokinetic Human Whole Blood Sample Analysis 
Report for “A Phase 1/2, Multicenter, Open-Label, Dose-Finding Study to Assess the Safety, 
Tolerability, and Preliminary Efficacy of Weekly nab®-Paclitaxel in Pediatric Patients with 
Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors 
•  ARPAC21 – ABI-007-DMPK-1744 – Study title: Method Validation Report for the Determination 
of Abraxane (Paclitaxel) in Human Whole Blood (K3EDTA) Using LC-MS/MS 
•  ABI-007-PST-001-PK – Study title: Population Pharmacokinetics and Exposure-response 
Analysis of nab®-Paclitaxel in Pediatric Patients with Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors. 
To capture the information provided by these reports, addenda for 2.7.1. Summary of Biopharmaceutic 
Studies and Associated Analytical Methods and 2.7.2. Summary of Clinical Pharmacology Studies were 
prepared and are included in Module 2. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
The applicant submitted the requested reports. 
The validation, bioanalytical, statistical or PopPK reports are of sufficient quality and support the 
reported results. Issue solved. 
Conclusion 
 Overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance has/have been updated accordingly 
 No need to update overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance  
Question 2 
The non-linearity in PK is suggested as being due to saturation of clearance and this is incorporated 
into the PopPK model, but apparently inconsistent with this, the clearance increases with dose and 
exposure decreases, or at least at the highest dose. In the literature it has also been postulated that 
there is also saturable tissue uptake (https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/jco.1994.12.3.532). The 
applicant should provide a discussion whether this additional non-linear process would explain the 
presented data and should be included in the model. If deemed necessary after discussion, the model 
should be updated with this process. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 84/92 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the MAH’s response 
The sponsor acknowledges and appreciates the CHMP comments on the PopPK analysis. Non-linearity 
in paclitaxel PK, specifically mentioned by the Rapporteurs at the highest dose, was shown in the 
following submitted PK table (Table 2). Of note, a total of 9 patients were excluded from the 
descriptive statistics in this table due to blood draw time deviations. Given that the blood draw time 
deviations did not have significant impact on clearance estimation, the sponsor summarized the 
descriptive statistics of PK parameters including all patients (Table 3) and compared to those in Table 6 
of ABI-007-PST-001-PK. Inclusion of the initially excluded subjects at the highest dose of 270 mg/m2 
brings down the CL from 32 L/hr to 24 L/hr. In addition, ANOVA testing indicates a lack of significant 
difference of clearance across different dose levels (p = 0.2173), which can be explained by large 
inter-subject variability and limited number of subjects enrolled from different dose levels. Taken 
together, there is limited nonlinear PK behavior of paclitaxel exposure from 120 mg/m2 to 270 mg/m2 
in pediatric patients. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 85/92 
 
 
 
 
Nevertheless, per the suggestion from the reviewer, the sponsor has re-run the PopPK model using the 
three-compartment model with both saturable distribution and saturable elimination as a starting point 
to fit sparse and rich whole blood concentrations collected from ABI-007-PST- 001 pediatric patients. 
The model was eventually reduced to only saturable elimination indicating that the current data did not 
support the identification of saturable distribution. Model discrimination results comparing models with 
only saturable elimination and models with both saturable distribution and elimination are summarized 
in Table 4. The results of models including both saturable distribution and elimination show an increase 
in objective function value compared to models with only saturable elimination and confirm that the 
current data did not support the identification of saturable distribution. Typical values of PK parameters 
derived with Model 2 (saturable elimination; used in Report ABI-007-PST-001-PK) and Model 3 
(saturable distribution and elimination; proposed by CHMP) are presented in Table 5. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 86/92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 87/92 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, goodness-of-fit plots were provided for Model 2 (saturable elimination) and Model 3 
(saturable distribution and elimination) in Figure 1 and Figure 2, respectively. The individual and 
population predicted concentrations versus observed concentrations show a clear bias and 
underprediction for Model 3 when compared to Model 2. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 88/92 
 
 
 
 
Finally, Models 2 and 3 were evaluated using the method of prediction corrected visual predictive 
check. The models were used to generate PK profiles for a simulated subject population with the same 
characteristics and observed sampling times as the observed subject population. Both the observed 
and the simulated data were separated into 8 bins according to the sampling times. These simulations 
were replicated a total of 1000 times so that within each bin, nonparametric 95% confidence intervals 
of the 5th, 50th and 95th prediction percentiles of concentration could be computed. These were 
displayed graphically and overlaid with the corresponding percentiles of the observed data. Results of 
the visual predictive check are presented in Figure 3 for Model 2 and in Figure 4 for Model 3. Observed 
median and upper 90th percentile of paclitaxel concentrations were contained within the model-
predicted ranges (shaded areas) for Model 2 with only saturable elimination (Figure 3). However, only 
upper 90th percentile of paclitaxel concentrations were contained within the model-predicted ranges 
and for Model 3 with saturable distribution and elimination and median concentrations were 
overpredicted (Figure 4). Lower 90th percentile of paclitaxel concentrations were underpredicted in 
both models but with a larger bias for Model 3 with saturable distribution and elimination. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 89/92 
 
 
 
 
In summary, there is limited nonlinear PK behavior of paclitaxel exposure from 120 mg/m2 to 270 
mg/m2 in pediatric patients. In addition, the current work confirms that the model with three 
compartments and only saturable elimination, as used in ABI-007-PST-001-PK, adequately escribed 
the concentrations of paclitaxel in pediatrics and the current data don’t support the identification of a 
saturable distribution component. The proposed wording on PK in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC), Section 5.2, remains unchanged. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
The applicant showed sufficiently that the observed non-linearity in PK is adequately described with the 
initial proposed model with three compartments and only saturable elimination. Issue solved. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 90/92 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
 Overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance has/have been updated accordingly 
 No need to update overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance  
Question 3 
The Applicant is asked how the number of 4 patients with DCR is calculated in the Ewing’s sarcoma 
group, since the results show only 3 patients with SD ≥16 weeks and no patients with confirmed CR or 
PR. 
Summary of the MAH’s response 
As noted, Table 14: Disease Control Rate – Phase 2 (Efficacy Evaluable Population) in Study Report 
ABI-007-PST-001 indicates that 4 patients are included in the DCR for the Ewing’s sarcoma group. The 
source for this information, Table 14.2.1.1.1 (Summary of Overall Response by RECIST 1.1 and/or 
Curie Score, Efficacy Evaluable Population), shows that 3 patients in the Ewing’s sarcoma group had a 
Best Overall Response of SD ≥ 16 weeks, and no patients exhibited confirmed PR or confirmed CR. 
Table 14.2.1.1.1 also indicates that 2 patients had a Best Overall Response of PR; please note that 
these were not confirmed responses. It can be seen on page 9 in Listing 16.2.5.5 (see ABI-007-PST-
001 Listing of Individual Laboratory Measurements by Patients) (Best Confirmed Overall Response and 
Duration of Response by RECIST 1.1, Safety Population) that one of these 2 patients with a Best 
Overall Response of (unconfirmed) PR also met the requirements for a Best Confirmed Overall 
Response of SD ≥ 16 weeks; in accordance with the ABI-007-PST-001 Statistical Analysis Plan, SD 
duration was calculated as the time from first study drug administration until first observed disease 
progression. This brings to 4 the total number of patients with SD ≥ 16 weeks. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
The MAH explained that in addition to the three patients with confirmed SD, there were two patients 
who had an unconfirmed best response of PR, of which one also met the criteria of confirmed SD ≥16 
weeks and was therefore counted in the DCR rate as SD. Issue resolved. 
Conclusion 
 Overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance has/have been updated accordingly 
 No need to update overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance 
Question 4 
The Applicant is asked when the final report with the completed 1 year-survival follow-up is expected 
to be submitted. 
Summary of the MAH’s response 
Please note that the final report including 1-year overall survival (OS) follow-up data, dated 26 Apr 
2019, was part of the initial submission made on 28 Jun 2019. The report was included in eCTD section 
m-5-3-3-2-patient-PK-and-initial-tolerability-study-reports, ABI-007-PST-001-Study Report Body – OS 
Follow-Up. 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 91/92 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical overview (Section 2.5), summary of clinical efficacy (Section 2.7.3), and summary of 
clinical safety (Section 2.7.4) were updated to include data on the 1-year OS follow-up period and are 
submitted in Module 2. Below, the results are summarised of the 1-year survival follow-up period. 
Results 1-year survival follow-up 
Patients completing or discontinuing treatment in Study ABI-007-PST-001 were included in a 1-year 
survival follow-up period. 
At the time of the first database cutoff date of 05 Dec 2017, a total of 10 patients (6 patients in the 
Ewing’s sarcoma group, 3 patients in the neuroblastoma group, and 1 patient in the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group) were ongoing in the survival follow-up period. As of the final database 
cutoff date of 06 Nov 2018, all patients had completed the 1-year survival follow-up period or 
discontinued from the study. 
Median overall survival results observed at the final database cutoff date were similar to those seen at 
the first database cutoff date. At the 06 Nov 2018 cutoff date, the median overall survival was 32.1 
weeks, 32.0 weeks, and 19.6 weeks for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma 
groups, respectively, versus the median overall survival of 32.1 weeks, 26.7 weeks, and 19.6 weeks 
for the Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively, at the 05 Dec 
2017 database cutoff. Median duration of response and progression-free survival results remained 
unchanged between the two database cutoff dates. 
Data collection for TEAEs had been completed by the time of the first database cutoff date. Thus, no 
new safety concerns emerged during the remaining follow-up period for the 10 patients ongoing in the 
study on 05 Dec 2017. 
During the 1-year follow-up period, an additional 5 patients from the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 2 
patients from the neuroblastoma group, and 1 patient from the rhabdomyosarcoma group died. 
Similarly to what had been reported for the deaths recorded until the first database cutoff date, these 
patient deaths were attributed to “death from malignant disease under study, or complication due to 
malignant disease under study”. In total, eleven patients (79%) from the Ewing’s sarcoma group, 10 
patients (71%) from the neuroblastoma sarcoma group, and 12 patients (86%) from the 
rhabdomyosarcoma group died during the study. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
The MAH clarified that during the submission in June 2019 both the original CSR and an addendum of 
the CSR with 1-year follow-up survival data were submitted. The first CSR dated from 29 May 2018. 
The last patient completed the study on 06 Nov 2018 and an update of the OS data was performed on 
26 April 2019. The 1-year follow-up survival data were not added to the clinical overview, summary of 
clinical efficacy, or the summary of clinical safety. In this response the MAH updated these documents 
accordingly. 
The 1-year follow-up survival data were comparable to the results of the first database cutoff. PFS and 
DOR did not change with the new cutoff data. Collection of safety data was already completed at the 
first data cutoff. Issue resolved. 
Conclusion 
 Overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance has/have been updated accordingly 
 No need to update overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance 
Abraxane 
Assessment report  
Page 92/92 
 
 
 
 
