EMA/99258/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000778 
EPAR summary for the public 
Abraxane 
paclitaxel 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Abraxane. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Abraxane. 
What is Abraxane? 
Abraxane is a powder that is made up into a suspension for infusion (drip) into a vein. It contains the 
active substance paclitaxel attached to a human protein called albumin. 
What is Abraxane used for? 
Abraxane is used to treat the following cancers in adults: 
•  metastatic breast cancer, when the first treatment has stopped working and standard treatment 
including an ‘anthracycline’ (another type of cancer medicine) is not suitable. ‘Metastatic’ means 
that the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. 
•  metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, as a first treatment in combination with another 
cancer medicine, gemcitabine. 
•  non-small cell lung cancer, as a first treatment in combination with the cancer medicine carboplatin 
when the patient cannot have surgery or radiotherapy. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Abraxane used? 
Abraxane should only be given under the supervision of a specialist cancer doctor in units that are 
specialised in giving ‘cytotoxic’ (cell-killing) medicines. It should not be interchanged with other 
medicines containing paclitaxel. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Abraxane is given into a vein over a period of 30 minutes. 
In metastatic breast cancer Abraxane is given on its own every three weeks. The recommended dose is 
260 mg per square metre of body surface area (calculated using the patient’s height and weight).  
In metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas Abraxane is given in 4-week treatment cycles. The 
recommended dose is 125 mg per square metre of body surface area once a day on days 1, 8 and 15 
of each cycle. Immediately after giving Abraxane gemcitabine should be given at a dose of 1000 mg 
per square metre of body surface area. 
In non-small cell lung cancer, treatment is carried out in 3-week cycles with Abraxane given on days 1, 
8 and 15 of each cycle and carboplatin given on day 1 immediately after Abraxane. The recommended 
dose of Abraxane is 100 mg per square metre of body surface area.  
For additional information, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Abraxane work? 
The active substance in Abraxane, paclitaxel, belongs to the group of cancer medicines known as the 
‘taxanes’. Paclitaxel blocks a stage of cell division in which the cell’s internal ‘skeleton’ is dismantled to 
allow the cell to divide. By keeping this structure intact the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. 
Abraxane also affects non-cancer cells such as blood and nerve cells, which can cause side effects. 
Paclitaxel has been available as a cancer medicine since 1993. In Abraxane, unlike conventional 
paclitaxel-containing medicines, the paclitaxel is attached to a human protein called albumin in tiny 
particles known as ‘nanoparticles’. This makes it easy to prepare a suspension of paclitaxel, which can 
be infused into a vein. 
How has Abraxane been studied? 
For metastatic breast cancer, Abraxane has been studied in one main study involving 460 women, 
around three-quarters of whom had received an anthracycline in the past. Around half of the patients 
in the study had already received treatments for their cancer after it had become metastatic. Abraxane 
given on its own was compared with a conventional paclitaxel-containing medicine given together with 
other medicines to reduce side effects. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients 
who ‘responded’ after at least five weeks of treatment. A response was defined as the patient’s main 
tumours disappearing or shrinking in size by at least 30%. 
For metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, Abraxane was studied in one main study involving 861 
patients who received either Abraxane in combination with gemcitabine or gemcitabine alone. The 
main measure of effectiveness was how long patients lived. 
For non-small cell lung cancer, the Abraxane-carboplatin combination was compared with a 
combination of a conventional paclitaxel-containing medicine and carboplatin in 1,052 patients. The 
main measure of effectiveness was the percentage of patients who responded to treatment. 
What benefit has Abraxane shown during the studies? 
In metastatic breast cancer, Abraxane was more effective than conventional paclitaxel-containing 
medicines. Overall, in the main study, 31% of the women receiving Abraxane responded to treatment 
(72 out of 229), compared with 16% of the women receiving conventional paclitaxel-containing 
medicines (37 out of 225). 
Abraxane  
EMA/99258/2015  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
When looking only at the patients who were receiving their first treatment for metastatic breast 
cancer, there was no difference between the medicines in terms of measures of effectiveness such as 
the time until the disease got worse and survival. In contrast, Abraxane was more effective than 
conventional paclitaxel-containing medicines in patients who had taken other treatments for metastatic 
breast cancer before. Therefore, the company withdrew its application for the use of Abraxane as first-
line treatment during the assessment of the medicine. 
In metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, Abraxane was shown to improve overall survival. 
Patients survived for around 8.5 months on treatment with the combination of Abraxane and 
gemcitabine, compared with 6.7 months on gemcitabine alone. 
In non-small cell lung cancer, 33% of patients receiving Abraxane and carboplatin responded to 
treatment compared with 25% of those receiving conventional paclitaxel and carboplatin. 
What is the risk associated with Abraxane? 
The most common important side effects with Abraxane (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cells), gastrointestinal disorders (disorders 
of the digestive system), peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage including damage to the nerves in the 
hand and feet), arthralgia (joint pain) and myalgia (muscle pain). For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Abraxane, see the package leaflet. 
Abraxane must not be used in patients who are breast-feeding or who have low levels of neutrophils in 
the blood before starting treatment. For the full list of restrictions with Abraxane, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why has Abraxane been approved? 
The CHMP noted that Abraxane was more effective than conventional paclitaxel-containing medicines 
in patients with metastatic breast cancer whose first treatment had stopped working, and that, unlike 
other paclitaxel-containing medicines, patients to be treated with Abraxane do not need pre-treatment 
with other medicines to prevent hypersensitivity reactions. In addition, Abraxane given in combination 
with gemcitabine was shown to improve survival in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the 
pancreas compared with treatment with gemcitabine alone and was effective in combination with 
carboplatin in the treatment non-small cell lung cancer. The Committee decided that Abraxane’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Abraxane? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Abraxane is used as safely and effectively 
as possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Abraxane, including the appropriate precautions to be 
followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Abraxane 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Abraxane on 11 January 2008.  
Abraxane  
EMA/99258/2015  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Abraxane can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Abraxane, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2015.  
Abraxane  
EMA/99258/2015  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
