European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008   
Doc. Ref No.:EMEA/672835/2008  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
ABSEAMED 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
epoetin alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/727/II/0006 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. 
Introduction 
Human erythropoietin is a glycoprotein which is produced primarily in the kidneys and promotes red 
blood cell production by stimulating the division and differentiation of committed progenitors in the 
bone marrow. Erythropoietin for clinical use is produced by recombinant DNA technology using 
mammalian cells as expression system.  
Abseamed (HX575) has been developed as a biosimilar product to the reference product Eprex/Erypo 
(epoetin alfa, Janssen-Cilag GmbH). The active substance for both products, is an epoetin of identical 
primary structure as the endogenous human erythropoietin and is produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary 
(CHO) cells. 
Abseamed is indicated for the treatment of: 
- 
- 
Treatment of anaemia associated with chronic renal failure in paediatric and adult patients on 
haemodialysis and adult patients on peritoneal dialysis (See section 4.4). 
Treatment of severe anaemia of renal origin accompanied by clinical symptoms in adult patients 
with renal insufficiency not yet undergoing dialysis (See section 4.4).  
Treatment of anaemia and reduction of transfusion requirements in adult patients receiving 
chemotherapy for solid tumours, malignant lymphoma or multiple myeloma, and at risk of transfusion 
as assessed by the patient's general status (e.g. cardiovascular status, pre-existing anaemia at the start 
of chemotherapy).  
Abseamed can be used to reduce exposure to allogeneic blood transfusions in adult non-iron deficient 
patients prior to major elective orthopaedic surgery, having a high perceived risk for transfusion 
complications. Use should be restricted to patients with moderate anaemia (e.g. Hb 10 – 13 g/dl) who 
do not have an autologous predonation programme available and with an expected blood loss of 900 to 
1800 ml.  
Abseamed  is  presented  as  a  solution  for  injection.  It  is  available  in  pre-filled  syringes  containing 
between 1,000 and 10,000 international units (IU) of the active substance, epoetin alfa. Abseamed was 
approved as a biosimilar of Eprex/Erypo product in the European Union on 28 August 2007 with the 
same indications as the originator Erypo/Eprex with the exception of its use to increase the yield of 
autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a  predonation  program,  an  indication  protected  by  intellectual 
property rights until April 2008 in the EU. 
1.2 
Clinical aspects 
Background 
Erythropoietin is a glycoprotein which stimulates red blood cell production. It is produced in the 
kidney and stimulates the division and differentiation of erythroid progenitors in the bone marrow.  
Epoetin alfa, a 165 amino acid glycoprotein manufactured by recombinant DNA technology, has the 
same biological effects as endogenous erythropoietin. It is produced by mammalian cells into which 
the human erythropoietin gene has been introduced. Epoetin alfa contains the identical amino acid 
sequence of isolated natural erythropoietin.  
Epoetin alfa has been shown to stimulate erythropoiesis in anaemic patients with chronic renal failure 
(CRF), including those on dialysis and those who do not require regular dialysis. In addition, severe 
anaemia caused by non-renal disease can be corrected or alleviated following treatment with epoetin 
alfa, e.g. in cancer patients on chemotherapy. Response to epoetin alfa in these patients is manifested 
by increased haematocrit, haemoglobin, reduced transfusion requirements and increase in quality of 
life. In patients with moderate anaemia undergoing major elective surgery accompanied by 
considerable blood loss, epoetin alfa can be used to increase the yield of autologous blood in a 
predonation program. Epoetin alfa treatment was shown to reduce the exposure to allogeneic blood 
transfusion in patients undergoing major elective orthopaedic surgery.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An application for a "Similar Biological Medicinal Product" via the centralised procedure under 
Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, also making reference to its Annex 1 was 
submitted to get marketing approval. The application was based on a comparability concept against 
the reference medicinal product Erypo® (Janssen-Cilag), as authorized in Germany which has been 
registered in Europe for more than 10 years. Marketing authorisation was issued by the European 
Commission on 28 August 2007. The drug substance epoetin alfa was originally developed by Amgen 
Inc. In the US, the drug substance is marketed as Epogen™ and Procrit™ and outside the US with a 
different composition under the brand name Eprex® or Erypo®. Details of the studies performed with 
HX575 are included in the scientific discussion section in the EPAR. 
Discussion 
The clinical development program of HX575 was in line with the Guidance on Similar Medicinal 
Products Containing Recombinant Erythropoietins, with one exception, i.e. the recommendation to 
provide results from at least two adequately powered, randomised, parallel group clinical trials 
demonstrating comparable efficacy and safety for both routes of administration in patients with renal 
anaemia. It was acknowledged by the CHMP that at the time of clinical development, Erypo®/Eprex® 
could not be used as comparator in s.c. studies in renal anaemia patients and therefore no second 
randomised, parallel-group clinical trial with the s.c. route of application could be conducted. Under 
these circumstances, the deviation from the guideline was considered to be acceptable (EPAR 
Abseamed®). A justification for extrapolation to the indication “increasing the yield of autologous 
blood from patients in pre-donation program” of the reference product Erypo®/Eprex® is given below 
based on following arguments: 
1) Extrapolation is justified based on Biosimilar Concept 
The MAH developed HX575 as a “Similar Biological Medicinal Product” with Erypo®/Eprex® 
(Janssen Cilag) as reference product via the centralised procedure under Article 10(4) of Directive 
2001/83/EC as amended. 
As such, the statement that the “demonstration of efficacy and safety in renal anaemia may allow 
extrapolation to other indications of the reference medicinal product if appropriately justified by the 
applicant” of EMEA Guidance on Similar Medicinal Products Containing Recombinant 
Erythropoietins (Annex to Guideline on Similar Biological Medicinal Products Containing 
Biotechnology-Derived Proteins as Active Substance: Non-Clinical and Clinical Issues, 
EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/94526/2005 Corr.) applies. 
2) Extrapolation is justified based on biosimilar PK/PD data on Abseamed  
The PK/PD profile of HX575 and Erypo®/Eprex® is similar following administration of low or high 
doses and by both i.v. and s.c route of administration. These findings were observed in a population of 
healthy volunteers, a population which is relevant for the claimed pre-operative autologous donation 
(PAD) indication. For a detailed outline of the the two pivotal Phase I studies performed during 
development to show biosimilarity between HX575 and Erypo®/Eprex®. 
3)Extrapolation is justified based on equivalent efficacy and safety data  
Appropriate demonstration of equivalent efficacy and safety of HX575 to Erypo®/Eprex® has been 
shown during development in two phase III studies. Based on these data establishing HX575 to be 
efficacious and safe in renal anaemia and chemotherapy-induced anaemia, no additional clinical 
studies need to be performed in the pre-operative autologous blood donation indication to extend this 
indication of Erypo®/Eprex® to HX575. 
4) Extrapolation is justified based on the same mode of action 
According to EMEA Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-
derived proteins as active substance: non-clinical and clinical issues 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005) justification needs to be provided when extrapolating from one 
to another indication. Such justification “will depend on e.g. clinical experience, available literature 
data, whether or not the same mechanisms of action or the same receptor(s) are involved in all 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indications”. The mechanism of action of EPO is identical regardless of disease state or route of 
administration  
Therefore, given that: i) the mechanism of action of EPO is identical regardless of disease state or 
route or administration; ii) the PK/PD profile following administration of low or high doses of HX575 
and Erypo®/Eprex® by both i.v. and s.c. routes are similar; and iii) appropriate demonstration of 
efficacy and safety in renal anaemia has been shown for HX575, no additional clinical study needs to 
be performed to claim an extension indication for increasing the yield of autologous blood from 
patients in pre-donation program. 
the  submitted  marketing  authorisation  dossier, 
In 
the  MAH  provided  results  from  five 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  studies  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  and  investigating  single 
or multiple 100 IU/kg (per week) doses. The MAH has also provided efficacy and safety results from 
two double blind, randomised, parallel-group, multicenter phase III studies. Study INJ-9 was designed 
to  evaluate  a  1:1  conversion  from  Eprex/Erypo  to  HX  575  with  respect  to  efficacy  based  on 
haemoglobin assessment in CRF patients on haemodialysis. Study INJ-11 was performed in patients 
receiving chemotherapy for solid tumours. The primary objective was to assess the efficacy and safety 
of HX 575 in the treatment of chemotherapy-associated anaemia. An Eprex/Erypo-treated group was 
included  as  internal  control  only.  The  clinical  development  programme  was  not  in  line  with  the 
guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing recombinant erythropoietins or previous 
scientific  advice  which  notably  recommended  to  provide  results  taken  from  at  least  two  adequately 
powered, randomised, parallel group clinical trials demonstrating comparable efficacy and safety for 
both routes of administration in patients with renal anaemia. It is acknowledged, however, that at the 
time of clinical development EPREX/ERYPO could not be used as comparator in SC studies in renal 
anaemia patients due its contraindication. 
Since  the  mechanism  of  action  of  EPO  is  identical  regardless  of  disease  state  or  route  or 
administration,  the  PK/PD  profile  following  administration  of  low  or  high  doses  of  HX575  and 
Erypo®/Eprex® by both i.v. and s.c. routes are considered as similar. Since demonstration of efficacy 
and safety in renal anaemia has been shown for HX575, the MAH believes that no additional clinical 
study  needs  to  be  performed.  Therefore,  the  Company  claims  an  extension  indication  for  increasing 
the yield of autologous blood from patients in pre-donation programme. 
SPC Changes 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
[…] 
Abseamed can be used to increase the yield of autologous blood from patients in a predonation 
programme. Its use in this indication must be balanced against the reported risk of thromboembolic 
events. Treatment should only be given to patients with moderate anaemia (haemoglobin (Hb) 10–
13g/dl [6.2–8.1 mmol/l], no iron deficiency), if blood saving procedures are not available or 
insufficient when the scheduled major elective surgery requires a large volume of blood (4 or more 
units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males). 
[…] 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
[…] 
Treatment of patients with chemotherapy induced anaemia: 
Adult surgery patients in an autologous predonation programme: 
Abseamed should be given by the intravenous route. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the time of donating blood, Abseamed should be administered after the completion of the blood 
donation procedure. 
Mildly anaemic patients (haematocrit of 33 - 39%) requiring predeposit of ≥ 4 units of blood should 
be treated with Abseamed at a dose of 600 IU/kg body weight 2 times weekly for 3 weeks prior to 
surgery. 
All patients being treated with Abseamed should receive adequate iron supplementation (e.g. 200 mg 
oral elemental iron daily) throughout the course of treatment. Iron supplementation should be started 
as soon as possible, even several weeks prior to initiating the autologous predeposit, in order to 
achieve high iron stores prior to starting Abseamed therapy. 
[…] 
4.3  Contraindications 
[…] 
Uncontrolled hypertension. 
In the indication “increasing the yield of autologous blood”: myocardial infarction or stroke in the 
month preceding treatment, unstable angina pectoris, increased risk of deep venous thrombosis such 
as history of venous thromboembolic disease. 
[…] 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
[…] 
Adult cancer patients with symptomatic anaemia receiving chemotherapy 
[…] 
Adult surgery patients in an autologous predonation programme 
All special warnings and precautions associated with autologous predonation programmes, especially 
routine volume replacement, should be respected. 
[…] 
4.6  Pregnancy and lactation 
[…] 
- 
[…] 
In pregnant or lactating surgical patients participating in an autologous blood predonation 
programme, the use of epoetin alfa is not recommended. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
[…] 
Surgery patients in autologous predonation programmes 
Independent of erythropoietin treatment, thrombotic and vascular events may occur in surgical 
patients with underlying cardiovascular disease following repeated phlebotomy. Therefore, routine 
volume replacement should be performed in such patients. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[…] 
Package Leaflet  
1.  WHAT ABSEAMED IS AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
[…] 
in moderately anaemic patients who are going to have surgery and prior to it, donate blood so that 
their own blood can be given to them during or after surgery (autologous predonation) 
[…] 
2. 
BEFORE YOU USE ABSEAMED 
Do not use Abseamed: 
[…] 
- 
[…] 
if you are donating your own blood before surgery, and: 
you had a heart attack or stroke in the month before your treatment 
you have unstable angina pectoris (new or increasing chest pain) 
you are at risk of blood clots in the veins (deep venous thrombosis) – for example, if you have 
had clots before 
Cancer patients 
If you are a cancer patient you should be aware that Abseamed may act as a blood cell growth factor 
and in some circumstances may have a negative impact on your cancer. Depending on your individual 
situation a blood transfusion may be preferable. Please discuss this with your doctor. 
Patients donating their own blood before surgery 
Your doctor will consider warnings and precautions associated with autologous blood predonation, 
especially volume replacement. 
[…] 
4. 
POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS 
[…] 
Patients donating their own blood before surgery 
with underlying cardiovascular disease: 
after donating blood repeatedly vascular and thrombotic events (blood clotting) can occur 
independently of treatment with Abseamed. Therefore your doctor may prescribe a medicinal product 
for volume replacement (infusion). 
[…] 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
CONCLUSION 
On 23 October 2008 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Labelling  and  Package 
Leaflet.  
7 
 
 
