EMA/475472/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Accofil 
(filgrastim) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Accofil, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Accofil is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Accofil, which can be found on Accofil’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Accofil (filgrastim) is a biosimilar medicine (a biological medicine that is similar to another biological 
medicine, also known as the ‘reference medicine’, that is already authorised in the EU). The reference 
medicine for Accofil is Neupogen. Both are used to stimulate the production of white blood cells 
(neutrophils), which reduces the risk of infection. Accofil is approved for use in the following situations: 
• 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils) and the occurrence of febrile 
neutropenia (neutropenia with fever) in patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy (a type of 
cancer medicine). 
Up to 70% of cancer patients experience neutropenia. Factors that increase the risk of developing 
febrile neutropenia include type of cancer and type and dose of medications used to treat it (for 
some, the risk is >20%). Older patients (≥65 years), females, patients with other health problems 
and previous history of febrile neutropenia or infection are more likely to develop febrile 
neutropenia. Nearly 10% of patients who are hospitalised with febrile neutropenia die, and the risk 
is roughly twice as great in patients who have additional health problems (e.g. heart, lung, liver, or 
kidney disease) or develop bacterial or fungal infections. 
• 
• 
• 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia in patients at risk of long-term severe neutropenia from  
treatment to destroy the stem cells in the bone marrow (the cells that produce the blood cells) 
before having fresh stem cells transplanted; 
More than 50,000 patients per year receive a stem cell transplant. Approximately 55% of patients 
receive their own stem cells, and 45% receive stem cells from a donor. 
to help release stem cells from the bone marrow in people who are about to donate them for 
transplant;  
to increase levels of neutrophils and reduce the risk of infections in patients with neutropenia who 
have a history of severe, repeated infections. This includes patients with conditions such as 
congenital and cyclic neutropenia, which are inherited and start in childhood, and those with 
idiopathic neutropenia (neutropenia that starts at any point in life for unknown reasons).  
Approximately one in a million people have cyclic neutropenia, and one in 200,000 have congenital 
or idiopathic neutropenia.  
Page 1/7 
 
 
• 
to treat persistent neutropenia in patients with advanced human-immunodeficiency-virus (HIV) 
infection, to reduce the risk of bacterial infections when other treatments are not appropriate. 
Approximately 10 to 50% of patients with HIV infection develop neutropenia. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Because Accofil is a biosimilar medicine, studies in healthy participants were carried out to show that 
Accofil produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to Neupogen and increases the 
numbers of neutrophils in a comparable way. 
Accofil was studied in one main study involving 120 women with breast cancer who had neutropenia 
due to chemotherapy. Patients were given the chemotherapy on day 1 of a three-week cycle, and then 
received one dose of filgrastim the next day and daily for up to 14 days. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the duration of severe neutropenia. Severe neutropenia lasted on average for 1.4 
days. This is comparable with the 1.6 days and 1.8 days reported in other studies found in the 
literature using filgrastim. Data from published studies indicate that the benefits and safety of 
filgrastim are similar in both adults and children receiving chemotherapy. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Because the studies with Accofil were designed to establish its similarity to Neupogen, any 
uncertainties regarding its benefits are considered to be the same as for the reference medicine. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Allergic reactions which 
More than one in 100 patients 
The product information contains 
may cause weakness, 
with cancer will experience an 
warnings for patients and healthcare 
drop in blood pressure, 
allergic reaction to filgrastim. In 
professionals on the possibility of 
difficulty breathing, and 
most cases the symptoms rapidly 
allergic reactions and how to 
swelling of the face  
resolved after treatment. 
recognise them. Patients who are 
(Hypersensitivity including 
anaphylaxis or severe 
allergic reactions) 
allergic to filgrastim or any of the 
other ingredients in the medicine 
must not receive it. Allergic reactions 
can be managed by immediate 
discontinuation of the medicine and 
treatment of the symptoms. Patients 
who develop a serious allergic 
reaction must not be given filgrastim 
again. 
Increase in spleen 
Pain in the left upper part of the 
Regular evaluation of the spleen size 
size/rupture of the spleen  
belly, pain below the left ribcage 
and immediate treatment of a 
(Splenomegaly/splenic 
rupture) 
or pain at the tip of the shoulder 
ruptured spleen is recommended in 
may relate to enlargement or 
patients taking Accofil. A decrease in 
rupture of the spleen, a small 
filgrastim dose can slow or stop the 
organ at the base of the ribcage 
increase in spleen size. 
that plays a role in filtering the 
Page 2/7 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
blood. Increase in spleen size is 
very common in severe chronic 
neutropenia patients (more than 
1 in 10 patients), common in 
patients who have HIV (more 
than one in 100) and uncommon 
(up to 1 in a 100) in normal 
stem cell donors. Spleen rupture 
is uncommon (up to 1 in 100). It 
is a medical emergency and can 
be fatal. 
Severe lung inflammation 
ARDS is uncommon in patients 
Accofil should be stopped and 
causing difficulty in 
with cancer and it may be fatal. 
appropriate treatment given if the 
breathing (dyspnoea)  
The onset of signs of lung 
patient develops signs such as cough, 
(Acute respiratory distress 
syndrome or ARDS) 
problems such as cough, fever, 
fever and difficulty in breathing. 
difficulty breathing and 
worsening of lung function may 
be preliminary signs of ARDS.  
Reaction of the donor cells 
The immune system of a 
The product information for Accofil 
against the patient 
recipient of a stem cell or bone 
includes a mention to GvHD in 
receiving the transplant 
marrow transplant may react 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
following use of fligrastim 
against the donor cells and 
(Graft versus host 
disease, GvHD) 
recognise them as ‘foreign’. 
Signs and symptoms include 
rash on the palms and soles, and 
ulcers and sores in the mouth, 
gut, liver, skin, eyes, lungs, 
vagina and joints. 
Coughing up blood 
Coughing up blood has been 
Accofil should be stopped if patients 
(Haemoptysis) 
seen in cancer patients and 
cough up blood. 
normal stem cell donors. 
Leukaemia in patients with 
Patients with severe chronic 
Regular blood tests should be carried 
severe chronic 
neutropenia 
neutropenia treated with 
out whilst being treated with Accofil to 
filgrastim are at an increased 
count the number of neutrophils and 
risk of developing leukaemias 
other white blood cells, and patients 
(cancer of the white blood cells) 
should have periodic bone marrow 
and myelodysplastic syndromes 
examinations. 
(a group of diseases in which the 
body produces large numbers of 
one or more types of abnormal 
blood cells). This could also be a 
complication of the disease. 
Treatment with Accofil should be 
discontinued if patients develop 
leukaemia or myelodysplastic 
syndromes. 
Loss of calcium from the 
More than one in 100 severe 
Monitoring of bone density may be 
bones which leads to the 
chronic neutropenia patients 
needed in some patients who undergo 
bones becoming weak and 
receiving long-term treatment 
continuous therapy with filgrastim for 
Page 3/7 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
fragile (osteoporosis) in 
with filgrastim will develop 
more than 6 months. 
patients with severe 
decreased bone density and 
chronic neutropenia 
osteoporosis. In some patients 
this might also be due to the 
already existing bone density 
problems. 
Worsening of inherited 
Patients with sickle cell disease 
Doctors should carefully evaluate the 
blood disorder that affects 
given filgrastim may experience 
benefits and risks when considering 
red blood cells  
sickle cell crises which can be 
the use of filgrastim in patients with 
(Sickle cell anaemia with 
crises) 
fatal. Symptoms may include 
sickle cell disease. 
severe pain in the bones, chest, 
gut or joints. 
Painful, raised, plum-
Sweet’s syndrome has been 
The product information for Accofil 
coloured sores on the 
uncommonly reported in cancer 
states that cases of Sweet syndrome 
limbs and sometimes the 
patients treated with filgrastim. 
have been reported post-marketing 
face and neck with fever 
(Acute febrile neutrophilic 
dermatosis, Sweet’s 
syndrome) 
with filgrastim. 
Worsening (exacerbation) 
Worsening of symptoms of 
The product information for Accofil 
of rheumatoid arthritis  
arthritis has been uncommonly 
states that exacerbation of 
reported in cancer patients and 
rheumatoid arthritis has been 
stem cell donors treated with 
uncommonly reported with filgrastim. 
filgrastim. 
Abnormal x-rays of the 
Adverse effects in the lungs, 
Doctors should evaluate the patient if 
lungs 
shown by abnormal x-rays, have 
any lung symptoms or changes in 
(Lung infiltration) 
been reported in patients treated 
lung function develop. 
with filgrastim. The condition 
may lead to respiratory failure or 
severe lung inflammation and 
breathing difficulty. 
Inflammation of the blood 
Inflammation of the blood 
The product information for Accofil 
vessels in the skin 
vessels of the skin is commonly 
mentions that cutaneous vasculitis 
(Cutaneous vasculitis) 
seen (in more than 1 in 100 
may occur. 
patients) in severe chronic 
neutropenia patients and 
uncommonly in cancer patients 
(in more than 1 in 1000 
patients).  
Leakage of blood from the 
Capillary leak syndrome is 
Doctors should monitor for symptoms 
small blood vessels into 
caused by a sudden and 
of capillary leak syndrome, which may 
nearby body cavities and 
unexplained change in the 
include generalised swelling or 
muscles 
capillary walls that allows fluid to 
puffiness, possibly associated with 
leak out. It is an uncommon 
passing water less frequently, 
Page 4/7 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
(Capillary leak syndrome) 
effect (may affect up to 1 in 100 
difficulty breathing, stomach swelling 
people treated with filgrastim). 
and feeling of fullness, and a general 
These symptoms generally 
feeling of tiredness. Patients and stem 
develop rapidly. Unless urgently 
cell donors should contact their doctor 
treated, the condition results in a 
immediately if they develop these 
sharp drop in blood pressure that 
symptoms, which should be treated 
can lead to organ failure and 
immediately. 
death. 
Inflammation and scarring 
Inflammation of the lungs is 
Doctors should monitor for signs such 
of the lungs 
uncommonly seen in cancer 
as cough, fever and difficulty 
(Interstitial pneumonia) 
patients treated with filgrastim. 
breathing and stop Accofil if they 
occur. 
Bleeding in the lungs 
Bleeding in the lungs is 
Doctors should monitor for signs such 
(Pulmonary haemorrhage) 
uncommonly seen in cancer 
as cough, fever and difficulty 
patients and stem cell donors. It 
breathing and stop Accofil if they 
may lead to respiratory failure or 
occur. 
severe lung inflammation and 
breathing difficulty. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Cancer of the blood in 
Temporary changes in cellular components have been seen in stem cell donors 
stem cell donors 
following filgrastim use. It is unknown if donors who develop these changes 
are at higher risk of developing leukaemia later on. More information is 
needed to better describe these risks, therefore stem cell donors should be 
followed for a long time (at least 10 years) after donation. 
(Malignant cell growth 
- haematological 
malignancy and 
myelodysplastic 
syndrome in healthy 
stem cell donors) 
Theoretical risk of 
Since lithium promotes the release of a type of white blood cell called 
interaction with 
neutrophils, and filgrastim helps the body to make more neutrophils, there is a 
lithium 
theoretical possibility that combination of these two substances could cause an 
increase in the white blood cell count above the normal range (leukocytosis). 
This interaction has not been formally investigated, and so far there is no 
evidence that use of both medicines together is harmful. 
Risk of antibody 
As with all large therapeutic proteins, there is a theoretical risk that patients 
production 
treated with filgrastim may develop antibodies against the medicine possibly 
(immunogenicity) 
resulting in the medicine being not effective, or in allergic reactions. It is not 
which may result in a 
known if or how frequently patients receiving filgrastim develop antibodies 
lack of effect or 
allergic reactions 
against the medicine and more information needs to be collected to confirm 
this.    
Cytokine release 
Some patients treated with filgrastim might potentially experience release into 
Page 5/7 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
syndrome 
the bloodstream of cytokines (proteins that cause inflammation) similar to 
those found in severe infection. This can lead to symptoms such as fever, 
nausea, chills, low blood pressure, increased heart rate, headache, rash, 
scratchy throat, and difficulty breathing. In most patients the symptoms are 
mild to moderate and are managed easily. However, some patients may 
experience severe, life-threatening reactions requiring urgent medical 
attention and permanent discontinuation of filgrastim treatment. 
Risks due to long-
Some patients have to use filgrastim for long periods of time (e.g. in severe 
term use  
chronic neutropenia or in human immunodeficiency virus - HIV). Although 
some risks of long-term use are known (e.g. development of leukaemias, 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin, loss of calcium from the bones), 
more information is needed to better describe these risks. 
Use in unapproved 
Doctors can decide to use filgrastim for the treatment of conditions for which 
conditions 
the use of filgrastim is not approved. Possible adverse effects related to its use 
(Off-label use) 
in these conditions are not well known. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Pregnancy and 
Accofil has not been tested in pregnant women, and the potential risk for the 
breastfeeding 
unborn baby is unknown. 
Accofil has also not been tested in breastfeeding women and its use is not 
recommended. 
The package leaflet for patients instructs women to ask their doctor or 
pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine if they are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, think they may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Accofil can be found on Accofil’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Post-approval 
To monitor and 
Osteoporosis, 
To be initiated 
Interim analysis 
study 
assess the long 
splenomegaly/splenic
post launch. 
every 12 months 
term safety of 
rupture, cutaneous 
filgrastim in 
vasculitis cytogenetic 
severe chronic 
abnormalities, 
neutropenia 
myelodysplastic 
syndrome and 
leukaemia. 
patients. 
To study the 
incidence and 
outcome of 
identified and 
potential risks. 
after start of the 
study;  
Completion of 
study 10 years 
after start of the 
study; 
Submission of 
study report 11 
years after start of 
the study 
Post approval 
To evaluate the 
Development of 
To be initiated 
Interim analysis 
EBMT study 
short and long 
malignancy 
post launch. 
every 12 months 
term safety of 
(haematological, non 
healthy stem cell 
haematological); 
donors treated 
Development of 
with filgrastim for 
autoimmune 
the mobilisation of 
disease; Occurrence 
peripheral blood 
of pulmonary 
progenitor cells or 
disorders 
PBPCs (for 
(haemoptysis, lung 
releasing stem 
infiltration, 
cells from the 
pulmonary 
bone marrow in 
haemorrhage) 
donors).  
after start of the 
study;  
Completion of 
study 10 years 
after start of the 
study;  
Submission of 
studay report 11 
years after start of 
the study 
Neither of the above studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2014. 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
