EMA/612763/2014  
EMEA/H/C/003956 
EPAR summary for the public 
Accofil 
filgrastim 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Accofil. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Accofil. 
For practical information about using Accofil, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Accofil and what is it used for? 
Accofil is a medicine that is used to stimulate the production of white blood cells in the following 
situations: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell) and the 
occurrence of febrile neutropenia (neutropenia with fever) in patients receiving cytotoxic 
chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer by killing cells); 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing treatment to destroy the bone 
marrow cells before a bone marrow transplant (such as in some patients with leukaemia) if they 
are at risk of long-term, severe neutropenia; 
to help release cells from the bone marrow in patients who are about to donate blood stem cells for 
transplant; 
to increase levels of neutrophils and reduce the risk of infections in patients with neutropenia who 
have a history of severe, repeated infections; 
to treat persistent neutropenia in patients with advanced Human-Immunodeficiency-Virus (HIV) 
infection, to reduce the risk of bacterial infections when other treatments are not appropriate. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Accofil, which contains the active substance filgrastim, is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that 
Accofil is similar to a biological medicine (also known as the ‘reference medicine’) that is already 
authorised in the European Union (EU). The reference medicine for Accofil is Neupogen. For more 
information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Accofil used? 
Accofil is available as a solution for injection or infusion (drip) in pre-filled syringes. It is given by 
injection under the skin or infusion into a vein. It can only be obtained with a prescription and 
treatment should be given in collaboration with a centre for cancer treatment. 
The way Accofil is given, its dose and the duration of treatment depend on why it is being used, the 
patient’s body weight and the response to treatment. More information can be found in the summary 
of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Accofil work? 
The active substance in Accofil, filgrastim, is very similar to a human protein called granulocyte colony 
stimulating factor (G-CSF). Filgrastim acts in the same way as naturally produced G-CSF by 
encouraging the bone marrow to produce more white blood cells. The filgrastim in Accofil is produced 
by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by bacteria into which a gene (DNA) 
has been introduced that makes them able to produce filgrastim. 
What benefits of Accofil have been shown in studies? 
Studies were carried out to show that Accofil produces similar levels of the active substance in the 
body to Neupogen and increases the numbers of neutrophils in a comparable way. 
Accofil was studied in one main study involving 120 female adult patients with breast cancer treated 
with chemotherapy known to cause neutropenia. Patients were given the chemotherapy on day 1 of a 
three-week cycle, and then received one dose of Accofil the next day and daily for up to 14 days. The 
main measure of effectiveness was the duration of severe neutropenia. Severe neutropenia lasted on 
average for 1.4 days. This is comparable with 1.6 days and 1.8 days reported in other studies found in 
the literature using filgrastim. Data from published studies indicate that the benefits and safety of 
filgrastim are similar in both adults and children receiving chemotherapy. 
What are the risks associated with Accofil? 
The most common side effect with Accofil (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is musculoskeletal pain 
(pain in the muscles and bones). Other side effects may be seen in more than 1 patient in 10, 
depending on the condition that Accofil is being used for. For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions reported with Accofil, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Accofil approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that, in accordance 
with EU requirements for biosimilar medicines, Accofil has been shown to have a comparable quality, 
safety and efficacy profile to Neupogen. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Neupogen, the 
benefit outweighs the identified risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
Accofil  
EMA/612763/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Accofil? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Accofil is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Accofil, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Accofil 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Accofil on 18 September 2014.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Accofil can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Accofil, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2014. 
Accofil  
EMA/612763/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
