European Medicines Agency 
Product Name: Aclasta 
Procedure number: EMEA-H-595-II-10-AR 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 8668 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1. 
Introduction 
Osteoporosis  is  a  systemic  skeletal  disorder  characterised  by  low bone  mass  and  micro-architectural 
deterioration  of  bone  tissue  due  to  an  imbalance  between  bone  resorption  and  bone  formation,  with 
consequent increase in bone fragility and susceptibility to fractures. Age and menopause are the two 
main determinants of osteoporosis. Asian or white ethnicity, underweight, dietary calcium deficiency, 
sedentary  lifestyle,  alcohol  use,  family  history,  and  cigarette  smoking  appear  to  be  independent  risk 
factors for osteoporotic fractures.  
Zoledronic  acid  is  a  third-generation  nitrogen-containing  bisphosphonate  and  as  such,  inhibits 
osteoclast mediated bone resorption. An intravenous formulation of zoledronic acid has been approved 
in  over  96  countries  worldwide,  including  Europe,  under  the  trade  name  of  Zometa  for  several 
indications, including tumour-induced hypercalcaemia, treatment of patients with multiple myeloma, 
and treatment of bone metastases from solid tumours.  
For the non-oncology indication (Paget's disease of bone), zoledronic acid is approved under the trade 
name Aclasta in 50 countries as of 30 April 2006, not including the US and Australia.  
Aclasta is presented as ready to use solution for infusion. It consists of 5 mg zoledronic acid in 100 ml 
of solution, containing mannitol as an isotonising agent and sodium citrate as buffering agent. 
The  MAH  has  previously  received  3  Scientific  Advices  on  the  development  program  in 
postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO), in November 2001, in January 2003 and in June 2005. The first 
2  advices  were  mainly  concerned  with  the  pre-clinical  development  while  the  last  one  included 
questions regarding the acceptability of submitting interim data from the 3-year pivotal study in PMO. 
It was agreed that data with a cut-off date in August 2005 would in principle be acceptable if efficacy 
was  shown  both  for  vertebral  and  hip-fractures.  The  cut-off  date  was  thereafter  changed  to  March 
2006. 
The purpose of the current submission for a Type II variation for Aclasta was to seek approval for the 
treatment  of  PMO.  Aclasta  will  be  administered  annually  as  a  5 mg  IV  infusion  over  at  least  
15 minutes. 
1.2 
Non-clinical aspects 
In vitro data 
Data  on  efficacy  in  vitro  was  included  in  the  submission  of  the  initial  Marketing  Authorisation  for 
Aclasta and was demonstrated in vitro in cultures of murine calvaria. Data from cultures of osteoclasts 
generated ex vivo from murine bone marrow cells and human peripheral blood monocytes were now 
included in the submission supporting this variation. Additionally, mechanistic studies investigated the 
binding  of  zoledronate  to  bone  mineral,  its  internalisation  by  osteoclasts,  and  the  interaction  of  the 
compound with the active site of its target enzyme farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase (FPPS).  
In vivo data 
In  vivo  activity  was  shown  in  short-term  experiments  with  multiple  sc  dosing  in  intact  rats, 
ovariectomised (OVX) rats, and animals with inflammation-induced osteolysis. Two long-term GLP 
studies 
in  OVX  rats  (0.3 – 7.5 µg/kg/week  sc  for  52  weeks)  and  OVX  monkeys  (0.5 –
 12.5 µg/kg/week  sc  for  69  weeks)  were  performed  specifically  to  assess  bone  safety  in  addition  to 
efficacy.  
The MAH also submitted long-term safety studies in rabbits focusing on the effect of zoledronic acid 
on bone fracture healing as well as two studies in two rat models of osteonecrosis. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical studies provided by the MAH support the safety and efficacy of an annual 5 mg i.v. 
infusion  of  zoledronate  for  the  intended  indication,  namely  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal 
osteoporosis (PMO). 
Evidence from enzymatic and cellular studies indicated that the nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates 
exert their anti-resorptive effect on osteoclasts by inhibiting a key enzyme in the mevalonate pathway, 
FPPS.  
At the time of the initial Marketing Authorisation, the CHMP expressed concerns about the possibility 
that  zoledronate  can  decrease  bone  quality,  at  least  during  a  certain  period  during  treatment.  The 
CHMP considered that the new studies presented by the MAH are reassuring in this respect, even if 
decreased bone quality in patients cannot be ruled out based on these results in animal models.  
1.3 
Clinical aspects 
Data  from  one  large  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  pivotal  study,  Study  2301,  was 
submitted  to  support  the  efficacy  claim.  In  addition,  2  randomised,  double-blind,  active-controlled 
trials, Study 2313 and Study 2315, provide supportive efficacy data in comparison with alendronate. 
Study 0041 was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging phase II study providing supportive 
efficacy data with different dose regimens of zoledronic acid. Additionally, 2 uncontrolled, supportive 
studies  Study  0041E1  and  Study  0041E2  in  the  target  indication  were  submitted.  The  marketed 
presentation of Aclasta was used in most of the clinical studies of PMO 
1.3.1   GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH. 
The MAH has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
1.3.2   Pharmacokinetics 
Key  PK/PD  studies  were  conducted  in  patients  with  bone  metastases,  receiving  single  or  multiple 
infusions  of  2  -  16  mg  zoledronic  acid,  and  presented  in  earlier  submissions  for  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the  oncologic  indication,  and  one  subsequent  PK/PD  study. 
Additional pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed in either patients with Paget’s disease or 
women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. 
The exposure was about 30-40% higher in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Multiple 
dosing  of  4  mg  i.v.  every  28  days  did  not  lead  to  accumulation.  No  dose  adjustments  have  been 
considered necessary in these patients for the cancer indications or Paget’s disease. Due to the paucity 
of  data  on  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment,  the  use  of  zoledronic  acid  in  this  group  is  not 
recommended.  
The  MAH  suggested  that  no  changes  were  necessary  concerning  recommendations  for  special 
populations. A 30-40% increase in exposure in patients with mild-moderate renal impairment was not 
considered  clinically  important  for  the  previously  approved  indications.  However,  for  the  more 
“healthy” population, women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the CHMP considered that the safety 
assessment needs to take into account that bone exposure could increase slightly in patients with renal 
impairment (see also discussion on clinical efficacy below).  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.3  Clinical efficacy  
Dose-response studies  
Study 0041  
This was a phase II, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, dose-ranging trial using a 
placebo control and 5 dose regimens of zoledronic acid. It had been previously assessed in the initial 
application  for  the  indication  Paget’s  disease.  The  study  included  351  patients  with  a  lumbar  spine 
BMD T-score ≤ -2. The results from this study provided the basis for dose selection for phase III. The 
primary objective of the study was to  determine  which of the 5 zoledronic acid dose regimens were 
superior  to  placebo  in  preventing  bone  loss  over  12 months.  Secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate 
markers  of  bone  turnover  and  drug  safety.  The  zoledronic  acid  dose  regimens  used  were  0.25  mg,  
0.5  mg,  and  1  mg  IV  (every  3 months),  2  mg  IV  (at  Months  0  and  6),  and  4  mg  IV  (at  Month  0). 
Patients  also  received  daily  calcium  during  the  12-month  treatment  period.  The  primary  efficacy 
variable was the percent change from baseline in bone mineral density (BMD) at Month 12.  
The mean percent change in BMD at Month 12 increased for all zoledronic acid groups, ranging from 
4.8% to 5.7% after 12 months of treatment. The placebo group showed a marginal increase of 0.4%. 
All  dosing  regimens  demonstrated  similar  and  statistically  indistinguishable  increases  in  BMD  over 
12 months; the 1 mg dose administered every 3 months resulted in slightly smaller numerical gains in 
BMD  than  the  other  regimens  (not  statistically  significant).  Reductions  in  bone  turnover  markers 
(serum  carboxy-terminal  collagen  crosslinks  (CTx)  and  urine  N-telopeptide  cross-links  (NTx))  were 
also  similar  for  all  dosing  regimens.  However,  higher  total  doses  were  associated  with  a  longer 
duration  of  effect  on  bone  markers  and  since  bone  turnover  was  not  controlled  within  the  pre-
menopausal range for all patients the decision was made to increase the dose to single 5 mg infusion 
administered every 12 months. 
The CHMP considered that the optimal dose had not  been demonstrated in this study and that there 
were  concerns  that  the  dose  might  be  unnecessarily  high  at  time  of  the  assessment  of  the  initial 
Marketing  Authorisation.  However,  analyses  of  bone  turnover  marker  data,  as  well  as  bone  biopsy 
findings that were available at that time, created no immediate concerns for bone safety however this 
needed  to  be  verified  by  confirmatory  data  from  patients  with  Paget’s  disease  as  committed  by  the 
MAH. 
Main clinical studies 
Study 2301 
This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre study to evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of zoledronic acid in the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women 65-89 years of 
age  in  support  of  this  variation  The  efficacy  results  initially  presented  by  the  MAH  were  based  on 
interim data collected through 31 March 2006, at which time the study was still ongoing and which 
constitutes  the  primary  efficacy  database  for  this  study.  The  additional  efficacy  analysis  performed 
based on the date of 01 June 2006 (last patient completed) has been submitted by the MAH during this 
variation procedure and did not significantly alter the assessment of the data. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
The  trial  population  consisted  of  postmenopausal  women  between  the  ages  of  65  and  89  years 
(inclusive) with osteoporosis. 
Inclusion criteria: 
Women aged 65 to 89 years with either of the two following fracture criteria: radiological evidence of 
at  least  two  mild  or  one  moderate  vertebral  fracture(s)  and  a  femoral  neck  bone  mineral  density 
(BMD) T-score - ≤ 1.5 or femoral neck BMD T-score –≤ 2.5 with or without evidence of an existing 
vertebral fracture.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion criteria: 
No  concomitant  use  of  bisphosphonates,  fluoride,  strontium,  systemic  corticosteroids  or  PTH  was 
allowed. Patients were not to have a GFR < 30 ml/min at baseline or to have had hyperparathyroidism, 
iritis or uveitis.   
Treatments 
Participants  were  placed  into  1  of  2  treatment  strata.  In  Stratum  I  no  concomitant  treatment  for 
osteoporosis  was  permitted.  In  Stratum  II  were  those  who  were  on  their  ‘usual  care’  osteoporosis 
medication  at  or  prior 
to  randomisation.  These  “usual  care  medications”  excluded  other 
bisphosphonates  but  included  hormone  replacement  therapy  (HRT),  selective  estrogen  receptor 
modulators (SERMs), calcitonin, tibolone, tamoxifen, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) or its sulfated 
form (DHEAs), ipraflavone, and medroxyprogesterone. Within each treatment stratum, patients were 
randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  zoledronic  acid  or  placebo.  All  patients  received  supplemental 
calcium and vitamin D. An intravenous formulation of zoledronic acid was administered annually at 
randomisation, at Year 1, and at Year 2. 
Objectives 
The primary objectives of the study were to show the superiority of zoledronic acid relative to placebo 
in reducing the incidence of vertebral and hip fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. 
In detail, the primary objectives were to show that: 
a) 
the proportion of patients with at least one new vertebral fracture over 3 years is significantly 
lower for the zoledronic acid treated group compared to the placebo group among patients not 
taking concomitant therapy for osteoporosis at baseline (stratum I) 
b) 
the time to first hip fracture is significantly longer for the zoledronic acid group compared to 
the placebo group among all patients (stratum I and stratum II)  
The principal secondary objectives were:  
a)  The  relative  change  from  baseline  in  biochemical  markers  of  bone  turnover  (b-CTx,  BSAP, 
P1NP) 
b)  Stadiometer height change from baseline,  
c)  Disability, i.e. days of disability due to a fracture or to back pain, 
d)  Safety parameters 
e)  Morphometric vertebral fractures, 
f)  Clinical fractures,  
g)  BMD. 
Randomisation and Sample size 
After a washout period of up to 2 months, all patients were randomised within each stratum to either 
zoledronic acid or placebo in a 1:1 ratio and received a single intravenous infusion of zoledronic acid 
(5 mg) or placebo at 0, 12, and 24 months. Chronic efficacy and safety was monitored at 6 months and 
at 1, 2, and 3 years. Acute renal safety was monitored 9 to 11 days after each dose in a renal safety 
cohort. This cohort was to include the first 600 patients enrolled into the study plus 2900 additional 
patients from selected clinical sites enrolled throughout the course of the trial. The actual number of 
patients randomised in the renal safety cohort was 5035. 
Blinding 
Randomisation  was  performed  using  a  validated  system  that  automated  the  random  assignment  of 
treatment groups to randomisation numbers. The investigators, site personnel, the sponsor, as well as 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  designated  clinical  research  organisation  and  the  coordinating  centre  personnel  involved  in  the 
conduct of the trial were blinded to the trial medication. 
Statistical methods 
Study Populations 
The intent-to-treat (ITT) population included all randomised patients (excluding one centre). 
The  ITT  population  was  used  as  the  analysis  population  for  all  efficacy  variables,  unless  otherwise 
specified.  The  modified  ITT  (mITT)  population  at each  annual  visit  included  all  the  ITT  patients  in 
Stratum  I  who  were  evaluable  for  incident  vertebral  fractures  over  the  period  being  analysed  for  at 
least one vertebra. 
The  per-  protocol  population  I  was  used  for  the  analysis  of  the  time  to  the  first  hip  fracture  and 
included the patients in the ITT population who did not have any major protocol violations that would 
potentially bias the analysis of the time to first hip fracture in Strata I+II. 
The  per-protocol  population  II  (Analysis  of  proportion  of  patients  with  new  morphometric  vertebral 
fractures  over  36  months)  was  used  for  the  analysis  of  morphometric  vertebral  fractures.  This 
population  included  the  patients  in  the  mITT  population  who  did  not  have  any  major  protocol 
violation  that  would  potentially  bias  the  analysis  of  the  proportion  of  patients  with  at  least  one  new 
morphometric vertebral fracture in Stratum I. 
The safety population included all subjects in the ITT population who received at least one infusion of 
study drug. The safety population was used as the analysis population for all the safety assessments, 
unless otherwise specified. 
Statistical tests 
The tests of comparability were performed for descriptive purposes only, and did not serve as a basis 
for  determining  entry  of  explanatory  variables  into  the  respective  models.  When  these  tests  yielded 
significant  results  they  were  considered  as  extra  information  in  interpreting  the  statistical  analyses 
performed  on  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  variables.  Different  background  and  demographic 
variables were analysed to assess the baseline comparability of the two treatment groups: 
For  the  ITT  patients  in  Stratum  I+II  combined,  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  tests  stratified  by  stratum 
were  used  to  evaluate  the  baseline  comparability  of  the  categorical  variables.  Concerning  the 
continuous  variables,  for  the  ITT  patients  in  Stratum  I+II  combined,  two-way  analysis  of  variance 
(ANOVA) models with treatment and stratum as explanatory variables were used. 
Testing for the efficacy endpoints 
The  analysis  of  morphometric  vertebral  fractures  was  performed  with  respect  to  the  proportion  of 
patients in Stratum I with at least one new vertebral fracture over 36 months. The between-treatment 
comparison  was  performed  using  a  logistic  regression  model  with  treatment  and  baseline  fracture 
status (i.e. number of vertebrae with prevalent fractures at baseline) as explanatory variables. The log-
odds ratio, θV, was estimated by the maximum likelihood estimate of the treatment coefficient term in 
the logistic regression model with the 95% CI reported based on the likelihood ratio approach. The p-
value was obtained based on the likelihood-ratio test.  
The analysis of hip fracture was conducted with respect to the time to the first hip fracture for patients 
in  both  strata.  The  between-treatment  comparison  was  conducted  using  a  Cox  proportional  hazard 
model with treatment as a factor stratified by study stratum. The loghazard ratio, θH, was estimated by 
the maximum likelihood estimate of the treatment coefficient term in the stratified Cox proportional 
hazard model with the Wald-type 95% CI reported. The p-value was obtained based on the stratified 
log-rank test. 
The estimated treatment effect along with the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals and 
p-values were provided. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Overall,  7736  patients,  6084  (78.65%)  from  Stratum  I  and  1652  (21.35%)  from  Stratum  II,  were 
randomised to zoledronic acid (3875 patients) or placebo (3861 patients). Of those randomised, 6517 
(84.24%) patients completed the study and 1219 (15.76%) patients discontinued from the study. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued was comparable for the two treatment groups. The same 
was true for the two most common reasons for study discontinuation: withdrawal of consent (7.66% 
for  zoledronic  acid  and  7.36  %  for  placebo)  and  death  (3.35%  for  zoledronic  acid  and  2.90%  for 
placebo). 
Results 
Recruitment 
Recruitment  for  study  2301  was  undertaken  at  240  centers  in  27  countries  with  the  randomisation 
stratified by stratum and center.  
Baseline data (ITT population) 
Baseline demographic and background characteristics were comparable for the two treatment groups. 
Most  patients  (78.97%)  were  Caucasian.  The  mean  age  was  73.1  years  and  virtually  all  patients 
(99.81%) were at least 65 years of age and 38.12% of patients were at least 75 years of age. The mean 
body weight was 60.3 kg, and the mean body mass index (BMI) was 25.3 kg/m2. The majority were 
non-smokers  (91.5%),  naïve  to  prior  bisphosphonate  use  (85.0%),  and  5  through  30  years 
postmenopausal (77.8%).  
Nearly 72% of all patients had femoral neck T-score of -2.5 or less, and 63.25% of the patients had at 
least  one  prevalent  baseline  vertebral  fracture.  The  median  baseline  height,  non-stadiometer 
measurement, was 153.5 cm (range: 115 to 178) and as  measured by a stadiometer  was 1551.0 mm 
(range: 1295 to 1791 mm). The mean BMI of the overall population was 25.26 kg/m2. 
Prior to inclusion, the most commonly used concomitant medications for non-osteoporosis indications 
were  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA),  levothyroxine  sodium,  and  paracetamol.  The  other  commonly  used 
classes  of  drugs  were  reflective  of  the  co-morbidities  that  were  present  in  this  patient  population. 
Overall, the most commonly used osteoporosis medication prior to the start of study drug in both the 
zoledronic  acid  and  placebo  group  was  hormone  replacement  therapy  (HRT),  followed  by 
bisphosphonates, calcitonin, and SERMs. 
Concomitant medications 
All  patients  as  per  protocol  were  required  to  be  receiving  1000  to  1500  mg/day  of  calcium  and 
between 400 and 1200 IU of Vitamin D after start of the study drug. 
Overall, the distribution of concomitant medications was very similar between the treatment groups. 
The most commonly used concomitant medications/nondrug therapies for patients in either treatment 
group included over-the-counter pain relievers and physical/physiotherapy.  
The  incidence  of  analgesic  usage  was  similar  between  the  zoledronic  acid  and  placebo  groups. 
However, Paracetamol had a higher rate of usage in the zoledronic acid group (43.10% of patients) as 
compared  with  the  placebo  group  (33.59%),  possibly  due  to  the  protocol’s  recommendation  of 
paracetamol  as  the  analgesic  to  manage  post-dose  symptoms.  The  majority  of  patients  in  both 
treatment groups used NSAIDs or ACE inhibitors after the start of study drug (72.10% for zoledronic 
acid and 72.34% for placebo). The usage of both was balanced in the treatment groups. 
The  patient  population  represented  the  elderly  female  post-menopausal  population  at  risk  for 
osteoporotic fractures. About 40% were 75 years or older. About 60% of the patients had one or more 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vertebral fracture at baseline and about 70% had osteoporosis as defined by a femoral neck T-score ≤ -
2.5.  The  majority  of  patients  (about  80%)  received  no  other  anti-osteoporotic  treatment  (Stratum  I). 
The majority, (85%) was bisphosphonate-naïve. The treatment groups were well balanced with regard 
to demographic, baseline disease and other baseline characteristics. 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 7736 patients were included in the ITT population: 3875 in the zoledronic acid group and 
3861 in the placebo group. For each analysis population, the proportions of patients were comparable 
for the two treatment groups.  
The  analysis  of  new  morphometric  vertebral  fractures  over  36  months  was  performed  on  the  mITT 
population.  The  analysis  of  time  to  first  hip  fracture  was  performed  on  the  ITT  population,  unless 
otherwise specified. 
The data presented was based on the intention-to treat (ITT) population of 7736 randomised patients, 
6084  (78.65%)  in  Stratum  I  and  1652  (21.35%)  in  Stratum  II.  Of  the  7736  randomised  patients,  22 
patients  did  not  receive  any  study  drug,  7714  received  the  first  infusion,  6926  received  the  second 
infusion,  and  6297  received  the  third  infusion.  Of  the  patients  who  were  included  in  the  ITT 
population, 1219 (15.76%) discontinued from the study prematurely.  
The  modified  intent-to-treat  (mITT)  population  at  each  annual  visit  included  all  the  ITT  patients  in 
Stratum I who had at least one post baseline evaluable radiograph for at least 1 vertebra. Of the 6084 
Stratum  I  patients,  5675  were  evaluable  for  morphometric  vertebral  fractures  over  36  months  for  at 
least one vertebra.. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy results  
Over 36 months, for the first primary efficacy variable, new morphometric vertebral fractures in the 
mITT  population,  occurred  in  3.26%  of  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  compared  to  10.87%  of 
placebo-treated patients in Stratum I.  
This  corresponded  to  a  relative  risk  reduction  of  70%  over  36  months  (95%  CI:  62%,  76%)  and  an 
odds ratio estimated from the logistic regression model of 0.27 (p < 0.0001; 95% CI: 0.21, 0.35). A 
69% reduction in risk was also observed in the per-protocol (PP) population. 
The second primary efficacy variable was time to first hip fracture in Strata I and II (ITT population). 
A  total  of 140  patients  had  a  hip  fracture,  52  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and   88  in  the 
placebo group. The three-year event rates based on Kaplan-Meier estimates were 1.44 % and 2.49% 
for  the  zoledronic  acid  and  placebo  groups,  respectively.  It  was  shown  that  zoledronic  acid 
significantly reduced the risk of new hip fracture as compared with placebo. The results for zoledronic 
acid relative to placebo showed a 41% reduction in the risk of hip fractures (p = 0.0024). A summary 
of the results is presented in Figure 1. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  1:  Kaplan-Meier  curve  of  time  to  first  hip  fracture,  study  2301  ITT  population  (final 
results).  
For time to first hip fracture, the event rate in bisphosphonate-naïve patients was 1.25% in zoledronic 
acid-treated patients (n=39) compared to 2.66% in placebo-treated patients (n=80). This corresponded 
to  a  51%  reduction  in  the  risk  of  hip  fracture  (hazard  ratio  (HR)  =0.49;  95%  CI:  0.33,  0.72).  In 
comparison,  for  those  who  were  previously  treated  with  bisphosphonates,  zoledronic  acid-treated 
patients had an event rate of 2.38% (n=12) compared to 1.58% (n=8) in placebo-treated patients. With 
a  small  number  of  events  in  total  (n=20)  this  corresponded  to  a  statistically  non-significant  49% 
increase in the risk of hip fracture (HR=1.49; 95% CI: 0.61, 3.64). 
In patients with a femoral neck BMD T-score above –2.5, the hazard ratio for hip fracture was 0.20 
(95%CI 0.06, 0.69) compared with 0.66 (95%CI 0.46, 0.96) in patients with a T-score ≤ -2.5. The test 
for interaction was close to significance, (p=0.070). The reduction in vertebral fractures was similar in 
both these sub-groups.  
For “time to first clinical fracture”, the event rate in bisphosphonate-naïve patients was 8.06% (n=251) 
compared to 12.89% in placebo-treated patients (n=392). This corresponded to a 37% reduction in the 
risk of clinical fractures (HR=0.63; 95% CI: 0.54, 0.74). For those who were previously treated with a 
bisphosphonate  a  smaller  effect  was  shown  with  an  event  rate  of  10.51%  in  zoledronic  acid-treated 
patients (n=56) compared to 12.75% in placebo-treated patients (n=63). This corresponded to a 12% 
reduction in the risk of all clinical fractures (HR=0.88; 95% CI: 0.61, 1.26). 
Comparable  efficacy  was  demonstrated  for  vertebral  fracture  reduction  at  36  months  and  in  the 
incidence  of  first  hip  fracture  over  time  in  both  Strata.  The  relative  risk  of  at  least  1  new  vertebral 
fracture  at  36  months  in  Stratum  I  was  0.30  (95%  CI:  0.24,  0.38,  p<0.0001),  and  in  Stratum  II  was 
0.44  (95%  CI:  0.29,  0.69).  The  event  rate  for  hip  fracture  in  Stratum  I  was  1.48%  and  2.56%  for 
zoledronic acid and placebo respectively. In Stratum II the event rate was 1.30% in the zoledronic acid 
group compared to 2.24% in the placebo group. The hazard ratio of the incidence of first hip fracture 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
over time was 0.59 (95% CI: 0.41, 0.87, p=0.0069)  in Stratum I and was 0.58 (95% CI: 0.27, 1.27, 
p=0.1686) in Stratum II. 
The  risk  of  a  new  morphometric  vertebral  fracture  following  treatment  with  zoledronic  acid  was 
reduced  in  Stratum  I  patients  with  previous  bisphosphonate  use  (RRR=65%,  95%  CI:  38%,  81%), 
relative  to  those  Stratum  I  patients  who  are  bisphosphonate-naïve  (RRR=71%,  62%,  77%).  Within 
Stratum  II,  vertebral  fracture  relative  risk  reductions  of  49%  and  70%  were  observed  in 
bisphosphonate-naïve  and  previously  treated  patients  with  bisphosphonates,  respectively.  Within 
Stratum II, the number of vertebral fractures was relatively small (n=86 overall) compared to that in 
Stratum I (n=402 overall). 
All 21 pre-specified secondary efficacy variables demonstrated superiority of zoledronic acid relative 
to  placebo.  Treatment  with  zoledronic  acid  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of  developing  new 
morphometric vertebral fractures, new or worsening vertebral fractures, and moderate/severe vertebral 
fractures over 12, 24 and 36 months, relative to placebo (p < 0.0001). 
Zoledronic acid was effective in Stratum I in reducing the proportion of patients with at least one new 
fracture in  all demographic and disease subgroups tested. The pre-specified secondary endpoints for 
the proportion of patients with a new vertebral fracture over 36 months in Stratum I included: 
•  Age 75 years and older (RRR = 60%, p<0.0001). 
•  No prevalent vertebral fracture at baseline (RRR = 70%, p<0.0001). 
•  with 1 prevalent vertebral fracture at baseline (RRR = 64%, p<0.0001) 
•  with at least 2 prevalent vertebral fractures at baseline (RRR = 72%, p<0.0001) 
The  time  to  first  fracture  in  Strata  I  and  II  for  any  clinical  fracture,  clinical  non-vertebral  fractures, 
clinical vertebral fractures, and other clinical fractures for the ITT population is presented in Table 2. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Between-treatment comparisons of the incidence of first clinical fracture over time by 
fracture location − placebo-controlled studies, Study 2301 (ITT population, final results) 
Bone biomarkers 
At  Month  36,  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  had  approximately  a  55%  greater  magnitude  of 
reduction in bone resorption as measured by serum b-CTx compared to placebo-treated patients (p < 
0.0001). Following the third dose, the only infusion after which profiling was performed, a decrease in 
serum b-CTx was observed at the 9-11 day timepoint followed by a gradual increase thereafter.  
At  Month  36,  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  also  had  approximately  a  29%  greater  magnitude  of 
reduction in bone formation as measured by serum BSAP compared to placebo-treated patients (p < 
0.0001). Based on the profile following the 3rd infusion, the nadir for BSAP occurs at 3 months and 
increases thereafter.  
A further bone formation marker, P1NP, was assessed at baseline, 12, 24 and 36 months. At Month 
36, zoledronic acid-treated patients had approximately a 52% greater magnitude of reduction in bone 
formation as measured by serum P1NP compared to placebo-treated patients (p < 0.0001). 
Height measurements 
At  the  annual  stadiometer  measurements,  patients  who  received  zoledronic  acid  had  a  decrease  in 
height of -1.69, -3.05, and -4.24 mm at Month 12, Month 24, and Month 36 compared to decreases of -
2.18,  -4.83,  and  -6.96  mm,  respectively,  for  placebo-treated  patients.  At  Month  36,  zoledronic  acid-
treated patients had significantly less reduction relative to placebo (p < 0.0001). 
Zoledronic acid treated patients have fewer days on average  with limited activity (60.5 versus 71.9) 
and with bed rest (8.2 versus 9.2) relative to placebo treated patients due to back pain. Zoledronic acid 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients also have fewer days on average with limited activity (5.9 versus 9.9) and with bed rest (1.6 
versus 2.2) relative to placebo treated patients due to fracture. 
Bone biopsies 
Bone biopsies were performed after 33 to 36 months of treatment in a subset of patients. A total of 152 
biopsies  were  obtained,  99  of  them  had  micro  computed  tomography  (CT)  -  evaluable  for  all 
parameters.  This  technique  showed  a  significantly  higher  trabecular  bone  volume  in  the  zoledronic 
acid  treated  patients  and  these  patients  also  had  a  significant  higher  trabecular  number,  decreased 
trabecular spacing and improvement in connectivity density. These findings indicated preservation of 
trabecular structure.  
Quantitative  histomorphometric  analysis  was  performed  after  tetracycline  double  labelling  on  111 
evaluable  biopsies;  82  of  these  were  completely  evaluable.  The  results  showed  that  bone  tissue 
turnover  at  the  tissue  level  was  reduced.  Normal  osteoid  formation  and  mineralisation  of  newly 
formed bone was seen and no signs of osteomalacia were found. Adynamic bone was not seen in the 
bone biopsies performed. 
The  MAH  presented  a  comparison  of  bone  biopsy  results  from  the  Study  2301  and  Study  2313,  a 
study  that  was  assessed  for  the  initial  Marketing  Authorisation  and  in  which  a  subset  of  patients 
underwent  bone  biopsy  (n=25).  The  comparison  of  activation  frequencies  in  Studies  2301  and  2313 
showed  that  the  absolute  values  for  the  parameter  activation  frequency  (Ac.f)  were  similar.  The 
relative  reduction  seen  with  zoledronic  acid,  as  compared  to  the  placebo  group  with  bone  biopsy 
assessment  in  Study  2301,  was  in  the  order  of  71%  to  74%  in  Study  2301  and  Study  2313, 
respectively. The CHMP agreed that the values for activation frequency in both studies were similar.  
Fracture rates in different age categories 
The CHMP noted that the rate for hip fractures in patients ≥ 75 years (18%) compared with younger 
patients was marginally reduced. Study 2301 was however not powered a priori to detect statistically 
significant between-treatment differences for fracture endpoints within subgroups e.g. the relationship 
between age and anti-fracture efficacy of zoledronic acid on non-vertebral fractures. However, certain 
subgroups were identified in the Statistical Analysis Plan as key secondary efficacy variables (e.g. Age 
≥75 years, number of prevalent fractures at baseline [0, 1, ≥2], see Table 3). 
Table 3:  Hip fracture relative risk reduction by age. 
Age group  Zoledronic 
acid 
n/N  
(Event rate)1 
Placebo 
n/N (Event rate) 
Hazard 
(95% CI)2 
ratio)
Within-subgroup  p-
value3 
P-value 
interaction4 
for 
24/1174 (2.13) 
25/1235 (2.30) 
39/1452 (2.96) 
7/1140 (0.65) 
13/1238 (1.10) 
32/1497 (2.36) 
0.30 (0.13, 0.70) 
0.53 (0.27, 1.03) 
0.82 (0.51, 1.32) 
   < 70 
   70 - 74 
   ≥ 75 
1 n is the number of patients with hip fracture over time, N is the number of patients within each subgroup, and % is Kaplan-
Meier estimate of the event rate at Month 36 (the approximate median duration of follow-up). 
2 The hazard ratio/95% CI of zoledronic acid versus placebo is computed from a Cox proportional hazards regression model 
with treatment as a factor within the subgroup. A hazard ratio < 1 implies that a zoledronic acid-treated patient has a lower 
risk of having a hip fracture than a placebo-treated patient.  
3 The within-subgroup p-value is calculated from a log-rank test. 
4  The  p-value  for  the  subgroup  and  treatment  interaction    is  from  a  Cox  proportional  hazards  regression  model  with 
treatment, subgroup, and the interaction as factors 
0.0029 
0.0556 
0.3501 
0.1222 
The  apparent  lesser  reduction  of  hip  fractures  in  patients  over  the  age  of  75  was  not  statistically 
significant,  and  subgroup  analyses  of  other  non-vertebral  fractures  as  well  as  clinical  vertebral 
fractures  by  age  did  not  corroborate  this  trend.  The  presence  of  lower  bone  turnover  in  this  patient 
subpopulation  was  not  confirmed,  and  the  treatment  effect  of  zoledronic  acid  as  reflected  in  bone 
histomorphometric  analysis  of  bone  turnover,  bone  structure  preservation  by  µCT  and  reductions  in 
biomarker levels did not show a trend towards lesser effects in patients ≥ 75. Thus, when analysing all 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fractures as well as tissue level and biomarker responses, no consistent trend towards lesser effects of 
zoledronic acid in the oldest age group could be substantiated by the MAH. 
The  CHMP  highlighted  that  in  general,  bisphosphonates  are  most  effective  at  sites  where  bone 
turnover is high, i.e. where trabecular bone predominates as in the vertebrae. The relative contributions 
of high versus low bone turnover depending on age are difficult to determine, but it appeared that also 
in  older  patients  a  benefit  exists  in  suppressing  bone  resorption  although  decreased  bone  formation 
also contributes to osteoporosis in this population. For Aclasta, the risk reduction for all non-vertebral 
fractures did not decrease with higher age but for wrist fractures, risk reduction decreased in patients 
above  the  age  of  70.  In  parallel  to  other  bisphosphonates,  the  effect  was  most  prominent  at  the 
vertebrae and it could not be excluded that the decreased efficacy at non-vertebral sites such as the hip 
and wrist could be due to the contribution of low bone turnover in the oldest. 
Efficacy in patients previously treated with bisphosphonates 
Increased risk of hip fracture was shown for patients previously treated with bisphosphonates and for 
other  clinical  fractures,  the  reduction  in  the  risk  was  marginal  (12%)  in  previously  treated  patients. 
The number  of events deriving from a  sub-population within the study (only about 15% of the total 
population were previous users of bisphosphonates) was however low (see also discussion on efficacy 
below). 
Concerning  bone  turnover  in  bisphosphonate-experienced  patients,  the  reduction  in  bone  resorption 
markers  was  less  pronounced  with  respect  to  the  percent  change  from  baseline,  whereas  the 
distribution  of  absolute  values  was  very  similar,  despite  differences  in  absolute  numbers,  baseline 
characteristics, and applied washout schedules. This lesser reduction was caused by a lower baseline 
value due to previous bisphosphonate treatment. There was no further decrease in bone turnover after 
zoledronic acid in patients previously treated with bisphosphonates. Rather, average bone turnover in 
patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid  was  higher  after  12  months  than  in  patients  continuing  on 
alendronate. 
Overall,  biochemical  markers  for  bone  resorption  (b-CTx)  and  bone  formation  (BSAP,  P1NP)  were 
reduced  following  study  drug  administration  with  zoledronic  acid  and  maintained  within  the  pre-
menopausal  range  at  Month  6  and  Month  12  regardless  of  whether  or  not  previous  bisphosphonate 
treatment was received. 
Summary of final Efficacy results 
The primary and secondary efficacy results of the interim analysis were confirmed by those in the final 
analysis; details are summarised below: 
Treatment with zoledronic acid reduced the risk of new morphometric vertebral fractures by 70% (p < 
0.0001) over 36 months. Patients who received zoledronic acid had the risk of morphometric vertebral 
fractures reduced by 60% over 1 year, 71% over 2 years , and 70% over 3 years compared to patients 
receiving  placebo.  New/worsening  fractures  and  moderate/severe  fractures  were  reduced  by 
approximately 60%-70% over 1, 2, and 3 years. All results were significant (all p < 0.0001). 
Zoledronic acid reduced the likelihood of having a hip fracture over time by 41% (hazard ratio of 0.59, 
(p = 0.0024). Patients, who were treatment-naïve to bisphosphonate therapy, exhibited a risk reduction 
of 51% (p<0.001). Consistent statistically significant reductions in the risk of morphometric vertebral 
fractures  over  3  years  were  demonstrated  across  the  pre-defined  categories,  including  age, 
geographical region, BMI, baseline femoral neck BMD T-score, prior use of bisphosphonates, number 
of baseline vertebral fractures, and baseline renal function. 
Zoledronic acid reduced the risk of clinical fractures by 33%, clinical vertebral fractures by 77%, and 
non-vertebral fractures by 25% (all p < 0.001) and was superior to placebo in increasing or preserving 
BMD in patients over 36 months at the total hip, femoral neck, lumbar spine, and distal radius.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant  increases  relative  to  placebo  were  observed  as  early  as  6  months  at  all  sites  except  the 
distal radius where significant differences were observed beginning at 12 months. 
Markers  of  bone  formation  and  resorption  were  reduced  following  study  drug  administration  with 
zoledronic  acid  and  were  maintained  within  pre-menopausal  levels  at  the  end  of  every  12-month 
period.  The  effect  on  reduction  of  bone  markers  was  sustained  over  36  months  and  no  further 
reduction of those markers was observed with repeat dosing. 
Zoledronic acid significantly reduced the magnitude of stadiometer height loss at Month 24 and Month 
36 (both p < 0.0001) and reduced the number of days of “limited activity” time and bed rest due to 
fracture and back pain when compared to placebo (all p < 0.01) 
Supportive studies 
Study 2313 
This  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  active-controlled  trial  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
tolerability  of  single  i.v.  zoledronic  acid  5  mg  as  compared  with  oral  alendronate  70  mg/week  in 
postmenopausal  women  with  moderate  to  severe  osteopenia  or  osteoporosis  who  were  being  treated 
with alendronate for at least 1 year. The mean age was 67.8 years, and nearly two-thirds were at least 
65  years  of  age  (66.2%).  The  baseline  demographic  characteristics  for  the  ITT  population  were 
comparable between the treatment groups. 
The primary efficacy variable was the percent change in lumbar spine BMD at Month 12 relative to 
baseline.  After  a  mean  prior  exposure  to  alendronate  of  approximately  four  years,  both  treatment 
groups  showed  preservation  of  BMD  after  12  months  of  treatment.  No  statistical  difference  was 
detected between the treatment groups for percent change in lumbar spine BMD at Month 12 relative 
to baseline. The criteria for non-inferiority were met as the lower bounds of the 2-sided 95% CIs at 
Month 12 were greater than -1.5% for both the mITT, ITT and the per protocol populations.  
More patients in the zoledronic acid group than in the alendronate group withdrew due to AEs. More 
patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  had  AEs  starting  within  3  days  from  injection,  especially 
headache, arthralgia and fatigue. Bone resorption markers (urine NTx and serum β-CTx levels) were 
more markedly suppressed at 3 months with zoledronate than with alendronate indicating more intense 
inhibition  of  osteoclast  activity  with  zoledronate  at  that  time  point.  At  12  months  a  reversed 
relationship was noted with higher levels of these markers in the zoledronate group. 
Secondary  endpoints  included  the  relative  change  from  baseline  at  Months  3,  6,  9,  and  12  for  the 
following biochemical  markers of bone turnover: serum b-CTx, urine NTx, serum BSAP and serum 
P1NP. At baseline, both groups were comparable. For zoledronic acid, the mean serum b-CTx level 
was decreased at Month 3 and then rose steadily above baseline up to Month 12, at which point the 
average level was approximately 15% above baseline. For alendronate, the mean serum b-CTx level 
decreased at Month 3, with little change thereafter up to Month 12, at which point the average level 
was 18% below baseline. 
The  same  pattern  was  demonstrated  for  urine  NTx  and  for  the  bone  formation  markers  BSAP  and 
P1NP. 
The CHMP considered that in this relatively small supportive study, zoledronic acid was non-inferior 
to alendronate with regard to increase in BMD. There was a trend for larger increase in the alendronate 
group compared with baseline, despite previous mean 4 years of treatment. Similar to the results from 
the  pivotal  trial  there  is  a  steady  increase  in  BMD  with  prolonged  treatment.  The  difference  from 
baseline  is  less  when  compared  with  the  annual  changes  in  Study  2301,  indicating  that  increases  in 
BMD  may  level  off  with  time  after  many  years  of  treatment  with  bisphosphonates.  However,  the  2 
studies are not directly comparable (younger patient population, different requirements with regard to 
osteopenia/osteoporosis at inclusion).  
As discussed above under study 2301, the results for the biomarkers in this study also indicate that full 
effect  is  not  preserved  with  zoledronic  acid  for  whole  12  months  as  bone  resorption  markers  in  the 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
zoledronic  group  rose  above  baseline  at  the  end  of  the  year  compared  with  the  maintenance  of 
suppressed  marker  in  the  alendronate  group.  Similar  findings  were  observed  for  the  bone  formation 
markers.  
Study 2315 
This was a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled trial to determine the rapidity of 
onset of action following treatment with zoledronic acid as compared with alendronate. The study was 
conducted in 128 postmenopausal women with moderate to severe osteopenia or osteoporosis who had 
not  previously  been  treated  with  bisphosphonates.  The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to 
demonstrate the superiority of zoledronic acid over alendronate in onset of action of bone turnover by 
comparing  the  relative  change  from  baseline  in  urine  NTx  in  patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid 
versus those treated with alendronate after 1 week of treatment.  
The secondary efficacy variables were as follows: 
• The relative change in urine NTx from baseline at Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 
• The relative change in serum b-CTx from baseline at Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 
• The change from baseline in Nepean Dyspepsia Index-Short Form total scores at Weeks 2 and 24 
In addition, the relative change from baseline in BSAP was assessed at Weeks 4, 12, and 24 as a safety 
assessment.  For  consistency  with  the  other  studies,  this  variable  was  analysed  using  the  ITT 
population. 
The  baseline  demographic  characteristics  for  the  ITT  population  were  comparable  between  the 
treatment groups. The mean age was 63.0 years.  
With zoledronic acid, the nadir urine NTx concentration was reached at Week 1, and levels increased 
gradually thereafter, remaining on average in the lower half of the pre-menopausal normal range after 
Week 8 (17.8 – 46.4 nmol BCE/mmol creatinine). Reduction with alendronate was more gradual and 
lower  in  magnitude  compared  with  zoledronic  acid  and  reached  a  nadir  at  approximately  12  weeks. 
Zoledronic  acid  consistently  demonstrated  a  significantly  greater  reduction  in  urine  NTx  relative  to 
alendronate for the primary efficacy endpoint at Week 1 (p < 0.0001) and at all other timepoints (all p 
<  0.005  for  Weeks  2,  4,  8,  12,  and  24).  A  more  rapid  onset  of  action  for  serum  b-CTX  and  serum 
BSAP was also demonstrated. 
The CHMP considered that this was a small study exploring biomarkers, and the value of this study as 
regards  efficacy  of  zoledronic  acid  in  post-menopausal  osteoporosis  was  very  limited.  In  contrast  to 
Study 2301 and Study 2313, biomarker profile was done in bisphosphonate naïve patients.  
The clinical relevance as regards time for onset of action could be discussed and furthermore, should 
be put into perspective of the clinical relevance of maintaining a prolonged action, which probably is 
more important for this chronic condition.  
Studies 0041E1 and 0041E2 
These were two uncontrolled extension studies, each of two years duration to the dose finding Study 
0041 for postmenopausal osteoporosis.  
Study 0041E1 used zoledronic acid in the two doses 1 mg or 0.5 mg every 3 months for 2 years and 
included 279 patients. 
A  consistent  increase  in  mean  lumbar  spine  BMD  of  3.25%  to  4.36%  was  observed  in  all  of  the 
zoledronic acid core study treatment groups between Month 12 (start of Study 0041E1) and Month 36 
(end  of  Study  0041E1)  and  placebo-treated  core  patients  had  an  increase  in  lumber  spine  BMD  of 
7.26%.  
There was a mean increase in total hip BMD of up to 5% after 3 years of treatment with zoledronic 
acid. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
On average, no additional decreases in serum BSAP compared to baseline were observed beyond the 
decreases in BSAP that were observed after one year of treatment with zoledronic acid in Study 0041 
in all core study groups, showing that a stable mean reduction from baseline between 40% and 50% in 
BSAP was reached on the original scale. The mean percent change (decrease) from core study baseline 
in serum b-CTx was larger at Month 36 than at Month 12 in all study groups. The largest reduction 
from core study baseline was observed at Month 24 in all study groups, with a mean reduction from 
baseline  between  70%  and  80%  in  serum  b-CTx  marker  on  the  original  scale,  which  is  twice  the 
reduction  observed  during  the  core  study.  This  discrepancy  might  be  explained  by  variability  in  the 
measurements.  
The second extension study, Study 0041E2, was an additional 2-year, open-label extension with the 
primary objective to assess the long-term safety profile of zoledronic acid 4 mg yearly in patients who 
participated  both  in  the  core  study  and the  first  long-term  extension.  A  total of  119 patients  entered 
Study 0041E2. For the purpose of analysis, patients were grouped into 3 treatment groups by how long 
they had received zoledronic acid across Study 0041, Study 0041E1, and Study 0041E2 (either 2, 3, or 
5  years).  Twenty-two  patients  received  zoledronic  acid  during  2  years,  78  for  3  years  and  19  for  5 
years. 
At Month 60, all groups demonstrated persistency of the BMD gains achieved over the first 36 months 
of the study. This was consistent across the different anatomical regions. The small number of patients 
in the 2- and 5-year groups resulted in wide standard deviations that precluded demonstration of any 
clinically relevant differences between the groups. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  dose  was  4  mg  annually  as  compared  with  the  5  mg  used  in  the  pivotal 
study. The CHMP agreed that the BMD results show that there is a continuous increase in BMD and at 
Month 36 BMD had increased by up to 9.7% compared with the baseline BMD in the core study. The 
increase  was  most  prominent  in  the  first  year  and  was  about  2%  annually  thereafter.  This  is  in  line 
with the results of the pivotal study (although for LS increases were more impressive in this extension 
study),  indicating  that  4  mg  yearly  may  be  as  efficient  as  5  mg,  but  confirmatory  fracture  data  are 
lacking  and  the  small  size,  as  well  as  the  explorative  nature  of  the  extension  studies,  preclude  any 
conclusions in this respect. The CHMP therefore requested that biomarkers should be measured in the 
extension study to Study 2301. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  CHMP  considered  that  already  the  interim  data  from  study  2301  provided  efficacy  results  for 
approximately  80%  of  the  total  study  population.  With  these  interim  data,  the  pivotal  study  met  its 
endpoints showing a reduction in the occurrence of new morphometric vertebral fractures over 3 years 
and  delay  of  first  hip  fracture.  The  CHMP  considered  further  that  these  results  were  statistically 
significant and clinically relevant and comparable to other bisphosphonates. Although less impressive 
for  the  second  primary  efficacy  variable,  time  to  first  hip  fracture,  results  were  comparable  to  other 
bisphosphonates despite the fact that about 20% of the ITT population analysed for this endpoint were 
receiving other anti-osteoporotic agents (except for other bisphosphonates). 
The CHMP highlighted that efficacy in preventing hip-fractures in patients with a femoral neck BMD 
T-score ≤ -2.5 was less compared with patients with BMD T-score > -2.5.  
The  CHMP  further  highlighted  that  the  analyses  on  sub-groups  indicate  that  zoledronic  acid  is 
effective  in  patients  without  any  other  anti-osteoporotic  treatment  (Stratum  I)  as  well  as  in  patients 
taking concomitant non-bisphosphonate anti-osteoporotic treatment (Stratum II). 
Efficacy on new morphometric vertebral fractures was shown in both bisphosphonate naïve as well as 
in  patients  previously  treated  with  bisphosphonates  in  Stratum  I,  although  with  a  trend  for  better 
efficacy in bisphosphonate naïve patients.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was also noted that the number of secondary endpoints was unusually large but the CHMP agreed 
that the closed testing procedure was an acceptable method for controlling for Type I error.  
The  results  for  the  secondary  endpoints  relating  to  vertebral  fractures  confirm  the  results  for  the 
primary efficacy endpoint, showing a reduction in risk of vertebral fractures in various sub-groups and 
in  clinical  fractures.  A  statistically  significant  risk  reduction  of  60%  for  new  vertebral  fracture  was 
seen already at 12 months. Results for clinical vertebral fractures are notably better when compared 
with  clinical  non-vertebral  fractures  (75%  reduction  versus  25%)  and  statistically  significant  results 
were not shown for all types of non-vertebral clinical fractures.  
Bisphosphonate – experienced patients 
For hip fractures and other clinical fractures, the CHMP considered that the results from the subgroup 
analyses  in  study  2301  were  conflicting.  Increased  risk  of  hip  fracture  was  shown  for  patients 
previously treated with bisphosphonates and for other clinical fractures, the reduction in the risk was 
marginal (12%) in previously treated patients. At least 97% of the patients met the wash-out criteria 
but the CHMP highlighted that it would be of interest to have data on treatment duration for patients 
with previous use of bisphosphonates, which were subsequently provided by the MAH. The concern 
was  that  previous  treatment  with  bisphosphonates  plus  zoledronic  acid  could  have  resulted  in  too 
much suppression of bone turnover, resulting in adynamic bone and increased risk for fractures.  
The CHMP agreed that the apparent increased risk for hip fracture was most likely caused by chance 
and  was  attributable  to  the  low  number  of  events  in  this  subgroup.  The  trend  was  not  substantiated 
when  looking  across  all  fractures,  and  bone  marker  analyses  support  the  notion  that  previous 
bisphosphonate use does not interfere with the effects of zoledronic acid on the skeleton. Efficacy and 
biomarker  data  do  not  support  the  development  of  resistance  and  bone  biopsies  do  not  support 
oversuppression. However, “frozen bone” (adynamic bone disease, in case the bone turnover has been 
suppressed  to  the  extent  that  there  is  no  longer  any  evidence  of  active  bone  remodelling)  was  still 
considered an issue that has to be addressed long-term. The MAH therefore committed that 60 patients 
in the planned extension study 2301E1 will have unpaired transiliac bone biopsies following double 
tetracycline labelling. Micro-CT will be done prior to the histomorphometric analysis.  
Possibly  previous  treatment  with  bisphosphonates  plus  zoledronic  acid  could  have  resulted  in  too 
much  suppression  of  bone  turnover,  resulting  in  adynamic  bone  and  increased  risk  for  fractures,  or 
secondary  resistance  to  previous  bisphosphonates  may  have  lead  to  a  certain  kind  of  resistance  to 
zoledronic acid.  
The overall results on hip and other clinical fractures were reassuring but it is likely that zoledronic 
acid  has  less  effect  at  sites  where  cortical  bone  is  present  compared  with  the  vertebrae  where 
trabecular  bone  predominates.  Less  efficacy  can  also  be  expected  in  involutional  osteoporosis  as 
compared with postmenopausal osteoporosis. 
Concomitant calcium and vitamin D supplementation 
Considering that all patients were adequately supplemented with relative high doses of vitamin D and 
calcium,  the  CHMP  considered  that  concomitant  use  of  calcium  and  vitamin  D  supplementation 
should  be  recommended  in  the  SPC.  The  CHMP  also  noted  the  large  percentage  of  patients  using 
concomitant  ACE-inhibitors  and  NSAIDs,  that  are  known  to  affect  renal  function  and  considered  it 
important for the safety evaluation (see also section “Clinical safety” below). 
Dose adjustment in patients with renal impairment 
For  women  with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis,  and  with  long-time  repeat  dosing,  the  safety 
assessment  might need to take into account that bone exposure could increase in patients with renal 
impairment. The MAH was therefore asked to discuss the need for a reduced dose regimen for patients 
with mild to moderate renal impairment. 
A  pharmacokinetic  study  in  cancer  patients  with  renal  function  ranging  from  normal  to  severely 
impaired renal function has shown a 30 – 40 % increase in the AUC over 24 hours for  those with mild 
to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance > 20  and < 60 ml/min) after a 4 mg infusion of 
zoledronic  acid  over  15  minutes  (Skerianec  et  al  2003).  Patients  with  similar  grade  of  renal 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impairment (creatinine clearance > 30  and < 60 ml/min) were included in study 2301. Patients with 
baseline  creatinine  clearance  <  60  ml/min    were  compared  with  those  with  a  baseline  creatinine 
clearance  ≥  60  ml/min  in  this  study  regarding  morphometric  and  clinical  fractures,  BMD  and 
histomorphometric parameters.  
It was estimated that for oral bisphosphonates, the variability in AUC due to variability in absorption 
might  be  larger  than  the  variability  caused  by  renal  function.  Most  of  the  previously  approved  oral 
bisphosphonates  indicated  for  osteoporosis  do  not  have  special  recommendations  for  mild-moderate 
renal impairment, while use in severe renal impairment is not recommended or even contra-indicated, 
due to lack of pharmacokinetic and/or efficacy/safety data and since exposure would be expected to 
increase even more in this population.  
The  MAH  has  also  provided  a  summary  of  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  patients  with  a  renal 
clearance below 60 ml/min included in study 2301. 
The CHMP agreed that from a bone safety perspective a dose reduction in moderate renal impairment 
may  not  be  needed.  However,  taking  the  increased  risk  for  renal  impairment  including  acute  renal 
failure  after  infusion  and  the  available  data  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  renal  impairment  into 
account,  the  CHMP  considered  that  patients  with  a  renal  clearance  below  40  ml/min  should  not 
receive Aclasta. 
Dosing intervals 
The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  overall  efficacy  data  were  convincing  and  a  possible  benefit  of  slight 
increase in bone turnover between the doses in repairing microdamage was considered an acceptable 
explanation.  This,  however,  will  have  to  be  confirmed  in  longer-term  trials  addressing  the  issue  of 
“frozen bone”. 
Duration of treatment 
The CHMP further discussed that bone density increased steadily over time at all sites measured in the 
zoledronic  acid  group  but  decreased  in  the  placebo  group.  Compared  with  the  dose-ranging  study, 
using  doses  as  low  as  0.25  mg  every  3  months,  the  increase  was  somewhat  less  pronounced  at  the 
lumbar spine at 12 months, about 4% compared with 4.8-5.7 in the dose-ranging study. The increase in 
BMD was less pronounced between the 2nd and 3rd infusion than between the 1st and 2nd infusion. 
At  3  years,  the  increase  was  7%  at  the  lumbar  spine.  The  CHMP  pointed  out  that  it  is  still  unclear 
whether this steady increase in BMD could be detrimental in the long-run, e.g. after further 3 years of 
treatment. The CHMP therefore considered that the planned 3-year extension study to Study 2301 with 
re-randomisation  is  important  to  address  this  concern.  Additionally,  an  extension  of  the  study  of 
further 3 years was warranted addressing the issue of long-term effects on bone. The MAH agreed and 
committed to address these points as post-opinion commitments. 
Single dose strength 
The  CHMP  noted  that  40  %  of  the  dose  used  in  the  pivotal  study  2301  was  shown  to  significantly 
increase lumbar spine BMD during 12 months and that no difference in BMD as compared to higher 
doses of Aclasta was observed at that time. The very high doses used in order to achieve an acceptable 
suppression  of  bone  turnover  over  one  year  is  expected  to  be  associated  with  interferences  in  bone 
metabolism different from those seen with daily or weekly dosing.  The CHMP therefore asked that 
the effects of the proposed regimen on pharmacodynamic and histologic markers of bone metabolism 
(BMD,  blood  and  urine  markers  of  osteoclastic  and  osteoblastic  activity,  results  of  bone  biopsies) 
should be compared to what is known about the effects of already approved bisphosphonate treatment 
regimens for osteoporosis in a general as well as based on the active controlled Study 2313.  
In  his  response,  the  MAH  clarified  the  potency  of  zoledronic  acid  in  relation  to  other,  especially  to 
orally  dosed,  bisphosphonates  for  which  more  long  time  data  exist  and  showed  a  relative  risk 
reduction for fractures equal or superior to other bisphosphonates. Lumbar spine BMD increase over  
3 years with zoledronic acid 5 mg/year is in line with BMD increase for other bisphosphonates. Bone 
histomorphometric parameters were not markedly different with zoledronate compared to with other 
bisphosphonates.    However,  the  assumption  that  the  lower  reduction  of  biochemical  bone  turnover 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
markers with the lower tested doses of zoledronic acid in the dose-finding study would have provided 
insufficient  reduction  of  fractures  if  tested  in  bigger  studies  is  still  unconfirmed.  Since  the  effect  of 
one 5 mg dose per year was shown to be effective to prevent fractures in osteoporotic women in study 
2301, conducting a large study with a lower yearly dose was not considered justified by the CHMP.    
Bone biomarkers 
The  CHMP  also  noted  that  markers  of  bone  resorption  decreased  as  expected  from  the 
pharmacodynamic properties of zoledronic acid. The reduction of bone resorption markers and bone 
formation markers, respectively, was of similar  magnitude compared with placebo. The reduction in 
bone  formation  markers,  however,  was  most  pronounced  at  3  months  after  the  infusion  but  at  the  
9-11  day  timepoint  for  bone  resorption  markers.  Post-dose  profiling  was  done  first  after  the  3rd 
infusion but it would have been of interest to have the profile following the 1st infusion as well.  
The  CHMP  pointed  out  that  the  profiling  of  biomarkers  done  after  the  3rd  infusion  in  Study  2301, 
showed that at 6 months, pre-dose levels of bone markers were reached and at 12 months after the 3rd 
infusion, levels are above pre-dose levels, indicating that a 12-month interval between infusions may 
be too long. Further results for biomarkers in Study 2313 were in line with the results of the pivotal 
trial,  indicating  that  full  effect  is  not  preserved  with  zoledronic  acid  for  whole  12  months  as  bone 
resorption markers in the zoledronic group rose above baseline at the end of the year compared with 
the maintenance of suppressed markers in the alendronate group. Similar findings were observed for 
the  bone  formation  markers.  Thus,  the  CHMP  considered  it  possible  that  more  frequent  dosing  of 
zoledronic acid, e.g. every 6 months, could have resulted in better bone protection. 
The  MAH  explained  that  overall,  biochemical  markers  for  bone  resorption  (b-CTx)  and  formation 
(BSAP, P1NP) were reduced following study drug administration with zoledronic acid 5 mg once per 
year,  and  were  maintained  within  pre-menopausal  levels  at  the  end  of  every  12-month  period.  The 
resorption marker b-CTX exhibited reduction to the lower half of the premenopausal level. The effect 
on reduction of bone markers was sustained over 36 months, and no further reduction of those markers 
was  observed  with  repeat  treatment.  Furthermore  no incidence  of a  cumulative  effect  was  observed, 
because  marker levels at 12, 24, and 36 months were all similar, indicating a reproducible effect on 
bone remodelling with each dose. 
1.3.4  Clinical safety 
The  main  safety  data  were  taken  from  4  trials  in  patients  with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  or 
osteopenia, including the pivotal Study 2301, the supportive studies Study 2313 and Study 2315 and 
one completed, phase IV, double-blind, placebo-controlled Study 2407. More than 98% of the overall 
exposure data provided comes from Study 2301.  
Data for Studies 2313 and 2315 were pooled to compare the adverse event profile of zoledronic acid 
with  alendronate.  Study  2407  was  a  10  days  study  designed  to  determine  whether  ibuprofen, 
acetaminophen / paracetamol could be used to mitigate post-dose symptoms following administration 
with zoledronic acid. 
Patient exposure 
Exposure in clinical studies  
A summary of overall PMO patient exposure to study drug for the major safety population (all patients 
who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  drug)  is  provided  by  study  and  treatment  in  Table  4.  In  the 
Aclasta  program  in  post-menopausal  osteoporosis  in  the  completed  controlled  studies  4,453  patients 
have received at least 1 dose and up to 3 doses of Aclasta. The patient-years exposure to zoledronic 
acid in this dataset is over 10,890 patient-years of exposure to study medication 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Summary of overall duration of exposure by treatment 
Study 
Zol (5 mg) 
Placebo 
Alendronate 
N=4053 
N=3924 
N=171 
2301 (final results) 
  N 
  Mean exposure years 
  Total patient years 
2313 
  N 
  Mean exposure years 
  Total patient years 
2315 
  N 
  Mean exposure years 
  Total patient years 
3862 
2.78 
10737.3 
0 
3852 
2.80 
10797.0 
113 
0.98 
110.9 
69 
0.43 
30 
112 
0.99 
110.9 
59 
0.44 
26.0 
0 
409 
0.03 
12.0 
72 
0.03 
2.1 
2407 
  N 
  Mean exposure years 
  Total patient years 
Overall 
4453 
  N 
2.45 
  Mean exposure years 
10890.3 
  Total patient-years 
Exposure year of each patient is defined as the entire follow-up period in the study of that 
patient and is presented as the number of days of follow-up divided by 365.25. 
3924 
2.75 
10799.2 
171 
0.8 
136.8 
The safety population in Study 2301 included 7714 patients who were exposed to at least one study 
drug infusion and the mean duration of exposure was 2-3 years. Of these patients, 5035 (65.1%) were 
participants  in  the  renal  safety  population  and  had  at  least  one  post-dose  renal  monitoring  visit 
following study drug infusion.  
Post marketing exposure 
The Marketing Authorisation Application for Aclasta in the treatment of Paget’s disease is currently 
approved in 50 countries worldwide as of 30 April 2006, excluding the US or Australia. Zoledronic 
acid has also been approved in over 96 countries worldwide under the trade name Zometa for several 
indications  including  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia,  treatment  of  patients  with  multiple  myeloma, 
and treatment of bone metastases from solid tumours. 
According  to  calculations  based  on  worldwide  sales  volume,  approximately  446,000 patients  had 
received  zoledronic  acid  for  the  indications  hypercalcaemia  of  malignancy  and  treatment  of  bone 
metastases. The calculation was based on the assumption of 24 mg per patient (6 dose cycles at 4 mg 
per cycle). This corresponds to approximately 223,000 patient-years of exposure.  
Approximately  1185  patients  received  treatment  with  Aclasta  in  investigational  clinical  trials 
sponsored by the MAH. In the latest PSUR (covering the period 01 November 2005 to 30 April 2006), 
approximately 2922 patients received treatment with Aclasta. An estimate of patient-years of exposure 
was 1700 patient-years. 
There  is  limited  post-marketing  experience  with  zoledronic  acid  used  in  non-oncology  indication, 
which is not unexpected, considering that Paget’s disease of the bone is a relatively rare disease and 
that there are other bisphosphonates on the market used for the same indication.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events  
Study 2301 
Interim analysis 
Overall,  the  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  AEs  was  similar  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group 
(95.49%) and placebo group (93.87%) in Study 2301. In the supportive studies, the number of patients 
experiencing  AEs  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  (88.5%)  and  alendronate  group  (82.5%)  were 
comparable. Adverse events by primary system organ class (PSOC) were presented by the MAH. 
With  the  exception  of  the  PSOC  for  “general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions”,  which 
showed  a  higher  incidence  of  AEs  for  the  zoledronic  acid  group  (43.1%)  than  the  placebo  group 
(21.7%) in the Study 2301, the incidence of AEs was similar between the zoledronic acid group and 
the placebo group. In the supportive studies, the incidence was 29.67% in the zoledronic acid group 
compared with 15.79% in the alendronate group.  
Within the first 3 days of any infusion in Study 2301, 51.4% of patients who received zoledronic acid 
experienced at least one AE compared with 26.3% of patients who received placebo. However, 4 to 15 
days after infusion, the rates were 20.48% for zoledronic acid versus 16.7% for placebo and over the 
remaining time periods, difference between the groups was negligible. Overall, after the first 3 days 
after  any  infusion,  the  adverse  event  rates  were  similar  across  both  treatment  groups  (91.8%  vs. 
92.3%).  
The  most  frequent  AEs  (  ≥2.0%)  observed  within  the  first  3  days  of  the  zoledronic  acid  infusions 
decreased from the first infusion to the second infusion and to the third infusion from 1726 (44.7%) to 
570 (16.7%) to 316 (10.2%), respectively. For placebo the rates were, 14.9%, 10.3% and 8.5% at the 
first, second and third infusion, respectively. There was lesser incidence of pyrexia and myalgia from 
the  supportive  studies  2313  and  2315  studies  due  to  the  concomitant  administration  of  paracetamol 
during the study. Results from the study 2407, showed that administration of paracetamol or ibuprofen 
following the infusion with zoledronic acid, reduced the change in mean temperature the following 10-
48  hours.  Less  patients  receiving  paracetamol  or  ibuprofen  reported  increase  in  the  severity  of 
symptoms on a questionnaire and a visual analogue scale. 
Most AEs were mild (15.5% vs. 16.6%) or moderate (52.4% vs. 49.7%) in severity for zoledronic acid 
and placebo, respectively. With respect to severe AEs, the overall reporting frequency for patients was 
also similar for the zoledronic acid (27.3%) and placebo (27.2%). 
The greatest difference between treatment groups in the frequency of AEs was observed in the general 
disorders and administration site conditions PSOC. The incidence of mild, moderate, and severe AEs 
is 20.6%, 19.1%, and 3.4% for zoledronic acid compared to 12.4%, 7.9% and 1.4% for patients in the 
placebo group. Severe AEs within the general administration disorders PSOC with twofold or greater 
differences included: pyrexia (0.88% (34/3862) vs. 0.13% (5/3852)), influenza-like illness 
(0.73% (28/3862) vs. 0.03% (1/3852)) and chills (0.44% (18/3862) vs. 0.00% (0/3852)), respectively. 
Differences  within  severe  AEs  for  the  cardiac  disorders  PSOC  were  primarily  driven  by  higher 
occurrences  of  arrhythmias  such  as  atrial  fibrillation  (0.67%  (26/3862)  vs.  0.23%  (9/3852))  and 
congestive cardiac failure (0.47% (18/3862) vs. 0.16% (6/3852)).  
As expected  in a long-term  study in an elderly population, the rate of AEs was high overall in both 
treatment  groups.  Otherwise,  the  adverse  events  related  to  zoledronic  acid  were  consistent  with 
previous safety data from studies in Paget’s disease as reflected in the current SPC. The higher rates of 
pyrexia,  myalgia,  chills  and  influenza-like  illness  reflect  the  post-dose  symptoms  associated  with 
zoledronic  acid.  These  symptoms  were  3-5  times  more  common  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group 
compared with placebo.  
Summary of final safety results 
There was no change in the overall safety profile for zoledronic acid in the final analysis as compared 
to the safety findings in the interim analysis. Detailed safety results are summarised below: 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall incidences of AEs and SAEs were comparable between treatment groups. The five most 
frequently occurring early onset (within 3 days) AEs are consistent with post dose symptoms: pyrexia, 
myalgia,  influenza-like  illness,  headache,  and  arthralgia.  The  majority  of  these  AEs  were  transient, 
resolving within 3-7 days. 
Consistent with other bisphosphonates, there was an imbalance between zoledronic acid and placebo 
for reported hypocalcemia adverse events (11 [0.28%] patients vs. 5  [0.13%]  patients, respectively]. 
All were transient and asymptomatic. 
Zoledronic acid showed a small (0.7% absolute and 26% relative) increased risk of developing ocular 
adverse events over placebo. 
Zoledronic  acid  did  not  exert  any  adverse  effects  on  fracture  healing,  nor  did  it  increase  the  risk  of 
avascular necrosis in this study. 
Maxillofacial events meeting adjudication criteria for osteonecrosis of the jaw were rare and equally 
distributed between patients treated with zoledronic acid and placebo (one in the zoledronic acid and 
one in the placebo group). 
There was no difference between zoledronic acid and placebo in long-term renal function parameters, 
as reflected in changes in serum creatinine and creatinine clearance. Transient, short-term changes in 
renal function, as demonstrated by increases in serum creatinine > 0.5 mg/dL from pre-dose to post-
dose (9-11 days), occurred more commonly after dosing with zoledronic acid (31 [1.34%] patients vs. 
10 [0.43%] patients for zoledronic acid vs. placebo, respectively). 
While overall cardiovascular AEs were similar between groups, patients treated with zoledronic acid 
exhibited  an  increased  rate  of  atrial  fibrillation  SAEs  relative  to  placebo  This  imbalance  was  not 
observed in a separate ECG substudy, nor consistent with the rate of nonserious atrial fibrillation AEs. 
Further, the vast majority of these events occurred more than 30 days after study drug infusion and, 
therefore, this suggests that these events are most likely not drug-related. 
Bone biopsies demonstrated reductions in bone turnover with normal bone quality. All but one patient 
with  evaluable  bone  biopsy  samples  had  evidence  of  labelling  in  either  trabecular  or  cortical  bone, 
indicating persistence of bone turnover. 
Markers  of  bone  turnover  were  reduced  to  premenopausal  levels  at  each  pre-dose  assessment  and 
exhibited  an  increase  over  time  between  yearly  dosings,  further  demonstrating  preservation  of 
remodelling capacity of bone after treatment with zoledronic acid. 
Study 2407 
This was a randomised, double-blind study of acetaminophen/paracetamol or ibuprofen compared to 
placebo in postmenopausal women with a low bone mass who received a single dose of intravenous 
zoledronate 
the  effect  of 
acetaminophen/paracetamol and ibuprofen relative to oral placebo in preventing oral body temperature 
increases of at least 1 degree Celsius (1.8 F) from baseline for 3 days after an i.v. dose of zoledronic 
acid. Secondary objectives were to assess the effect on severity of symptoms of (1) feeling feverish, 
(2) headache, or (3) aches and pains of muscles and joints, or other symptomatology for 3 days.  
(5  mg)  or  placebo,  with 
the  primary  objective 
to  assess 
The following treatment group definitions were used: 
• Group 1 = i.v. zoledronic acid 5 mg + oral acetaminophen/paracetamol (ZOL+APAP) 
• Group 2 = i.v. zoledronic acid 5 mg + oral ibuprofen (ZOL+IBU) 
• Group 3 = i.v. zoledronic acid 5 mg + oral placebo (ZOL+PLAC) 
• Group 4 = i.v. placebo + oral placebo (PLAC+PLAC) 
In total 481 patients were randomised: 135 to the ZOL+APAP group, 137 to the ZOL+IBU group, 137 
to the ZOL+PLAC group, and 72 to the PLAC+PLAC group. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  Of  the  481  patients  who  were  randomised  to  treatment,  55  (11.4%)  discontinued  from  the 
study  prematurely.  The  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  was  adverse  events  (n=40,  8.3%), 
and this occurred most frequently in the ZOL+PLAC treatment group (20/137, 14.6%) compared with 
the ZOL+APAP (11/135, 8.1%) and ZOL+IBU (9/137, 6.6%) treatment groups. No discontinuations 
were observed in the PLAC+PLAC group. 
The results for the primary safety variable are summarised in table 5 below. 
Table 5 
For  the  secondary  safety  variables,  symptom  severity  was  solicited  using  a  questionnaire  and  the 
visual analogue scale (VAS). 
A major increase in severity of symptoms was observed in 46.3% of ZOL+APAP patients and 
48.5% of ZOL+IBU patients, compared with 75.9% of ZOL+PLAC patients (both, p < 0.0001).  
The proportion of patients with severe symptoms was 23.9% of ZOL+APAP patients and 
26.5% of ZOL+IBU patients, compared with 48.9% of ZOL+PLAC patients (both, p ≤ 0.0002).  
The  number  of  patients  reporting  “unbearable”  symptoms  using  the  VAS  scale  (i.e.  ≥75  mm)  was 
greatest on Day 2 in comparison to Days 1 and 3. Almost one-fifth of all patients in the ZOL+PLAC 
group  (19.4%)  reported  unbearable  symptoms  on  Day  2  compared  with  8.5%  of  patients  in  the 
ZOL+APAP  group  and  5.5%  of  patients  in  the  ZOL+IBU  group.  No  patient  in  the  PLAC+PLAC 
group reported unbearable symptoms at any time.  
Identified adverse events  
Post-dose symptoms 
All  intravenous  bisphosphonates  have  been  associated  with  side  effects  caused  by  an  increased 
liberation  of  pro-inflammatory  cytokines.  In  clinical  trial  experience,  the  most  common  early  onset 
AEs  (≥5%)  within  3  days  of  any  infusion  included  a  wide  variety  of  symptoms:  pyrexia,  myalgia, 
influenza-like illness, headache, gastrointestinal symptoms and arthralgia.  
While in study 2407 the mean temperature increase in the “ZOL+PLAC” group was a little below 1°C, 
33%  in  this  group  experienced  temperatures  above  38.5°C  in  a  sub-group  analysis.  Unbearable 
symptoms  were  reported  in  19%  of  the  group  of  patients  not  receiving  concomitant  treatment  with 
paracetamol/ibuprofen  but  much  less  frequent  in  the  other  groups.  For  other  symptoms,  the  use  of 
paracetamol  and  ibuprofen  for  3  days  following  the  intravenous  administration  of  zoledronic  acid 
resulted in an approximate 50% reduction in solicited post-dose symptoms. Therefore, the information 
that  paracetamol/ibuprofen  following  zoledronic  acid  infusion  can  reduce  post-dose  symptoms  was 
included in the SPC. 
Ocular adverse events  
Ocular adverse events such as uveitis, iritis, episcleritis and conjunctivitis are known class effects of 
bisphosphonates.  In  clinical  trial  experience,  the  incidence  of  confirmed,  adjudicated  ocular  adverse 
events  was  seen  in  less  than  3.0%  of  patients  treated  with  Aclasta  vs.  2.3%  in  placebo.  Of  this, 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conjunctivitis  was  seen  most  frequently  followed  by  uveitis  and  episcleritis.  Patients  treated  with 
Aclasta  exhibited  a  30%  higher  relative  risk  of  developing  ocular  adverse  events.  The  majority  of 
ocular  events  were  reported  within  15  days  of  dosing.  These  adverse  events  were  not  visually 
threatening and could be treated conservatively. 
The ocular data further demonstrate that zoledronic acid has a small (0.7% absolute and 30% relative) 
increased  risk  of  developing  ocular  adverse  events  over  placebo.  Serious  ocular  AEs  were  equal  in 
both  treatment  groups  (n=42,  1.09%).  The  majority  of  events  of  eye  pain,  uveitis,  episcleritis,  and 
iridiocyclitis  were  reported  within  15  days  of  dosing.  None  of  the  eye  disorders  reported  in  studies 
2313, 2315, and 2407 matched the predefined search term events. The ocular disorders reported by the 
investigators and those confirmed by expert review for Study 2301 were presented by the MAH.  
No post-marketing reports of ocular adverse events after treatment with Aclasta were received. 
The SPC was updated to reflect the ocular events related to zoledronic acid. Particularly those events 
occurring within 15 days of infusion and with the highest frequency compared with placebo, i.e. eye 
pain, uveitis, episcleritis and iritis, warranted mentioning.  
Hypocalcaemia  
Transient hypocalcaemia is a well characterised side effect to the treatment with bisphosphonates. In 
clinical trial experience, cases of laboratory hypocalcaemia were uncommon. None of the cases were 
symptomatic  and  they  generally  occurred  in  patients  with  pre-existing  conditions  such  as  para-
thyroidectomy or malabsorption of calcium. 
To objectively and independently assess hypocalcaemia and laboratory abnormalities and to identify 
possible causal relationships, an adjudication committee for hypocalcaemia was established. An expert 
review on hypocalcaemia was also presented by the MAH. The incidence of serum calcium less than 
2.075 mmol/l (lower limit of the reference range) assessed 9-11 days following the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 
infusion was 2.3% (49/2015), 0.1% (2/1594) and 0.3% (5/1483) in patients receiving zoledronic acid. 
At  each  timepoint  there  was  one  patient  in  the  placebo  group  whose  serum  calcium  was  below  the 
reference range. There were 9 patients in the zoledronic acid group and 5 in the placebo group with 
clinically  notable  low  serum  calcium  levels  (<1.87  mmol/l).  None  of  the  hypocalcaemia  adverse 
events  were  serious  and  all  were  asymptomatic.  No  patients  discontinued  the  study  due  to  a 
hypocalcaemia  AE.  No  patients  in  any  of  the  supportive  studies  had  a  clinically  notable  low  serum 
calcium level. 
Based on post-marketing reports there have been 4 cases of hypocalcaemia (4/2207 patient-years). The 
time  to  onset  ranged  typically  between  hours  and  2  days  from  infusion,  with  full  recovery  either 
spontaneously or following supplementation of calcium. 
While most cases of hypocalcaemia in Paget’s disease and in the osteoporosis studies were transient 
and  asymptomatic,  few  cases  have  been  symptomatic,  despite  all  patients  receiving  vitamin  D  and 
calcium  supplementation.  The  rate  of  hypocalcaemia  in  the  Study  2301,  when  measured  9-11  days 
after the first infusion (2.3%), was similar when compared with the Paget’s population receiving single 
infusion.  The  current  SPC  for  Paget’s  disease  is  considered  adequate  in  its  recommendations  and 
warnings related to the risk of hypocalcaemia, but the SPC was amended to recommend concomitant 
use  of  vitamin  D  and  calcium  to  all  patients  receiving  infusions  with  zoledronic  acid  to  prevent 
hypocalcaemia.  This  is  particularly  important  as  regards  the  first  infusion.  The  information  that  the 
incidence of hypocalcaemia in the PMO population decreases with repeated infusions was included in 
the SPC.  
Dyspepsia 
The  Nepean  Dyspepsia  Index  -  Short  Form  Symptom  Checklist  was  used  to  assess  the  frequency, 
intensity,  and  ‘bothersomeness’  of  dyspepsia  in  study  2315  (study  design  see  section  “clinical 
efficacy”  above).  Between-treatment  comparisons  showed  no  significant  differences  between 
zoledronic acid and alendronate with respect to the mean changes from baseline in the total score, total 
frequency score, total intensity score, and total bothersomeness score at Weeks 2 and 24. 
Results  with  regard  to  dyspepsia  indicate  that  dyspeptic  symptoms  are  equally  common  with  i.v. 
zoledronic acid as with oral alendronate in study 2315. However, it is noteworthy that overall in the 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active  controlled  studies,  dyspepsia  was  more  frequent  with  zoledronic  acid  compared  with 
alendronate.  The  main  therapeutic  gain,  however,  seems  to  be  the  one  year  infusion  compared  with 
daily/weekly tablet,  a  dosing  strategy preferred by most  patients  in  studies  2313  and 2315  based  on 
patient preference questionnaire. 
Renal adverse events 
Bisphosphonates  are  excreted  by  the  kidney  and  are  known  to  have  the  potential  to  affect  renal 
function, especially when given intravenously and administered as a bolus.  
Over  the  entire  study,  the  frequency  of  adverse  events  associated  with  a  change  in  renal  function 
confirmed  by  adjudication,  regardless  of  study  drug  relationship,  was  greater  in  the  zoledronic  acid 
treatment  group  compared  with  the  placebo  treatment  group  (2.20%  vs.  1.64%,  respectively).  This 
difference  is  due  primarily  to  the  higher  number  of  adverse  events  reported  as  blood  creatinine 
increased in the zoledronic acid group 23 (0.60%) compared to the placebo group 3 (0.08%) 
Overall for patients receiving zoledronic acid and placebo, respectively, 383 (9.92%) and 336 
(8.72%) reported adverse events within the renal and urinary disorders. Serious adverse events were 
reported  for  47/3862  (1.22%)  of  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  and  45/3852  (1.17%)  of  placebo-
treated patients.  
Among the adverse events associated with change in renal function confirmed by adjudication in study 
2301 it is noted that there were 8 cases of acute renal failure in the Aclasta group vs. 1 in the placebo 
group. 
Atrial fibrillation  
The most frequently reported SAE in the zoledronic acid group was atrial fibrillation. This SAE  has 
been  thoroughly  discussed  in  variation  II-14  adopted  in  parallel  to  this  procedure  and  has  been 
included in the Product Information.  
Cerebrovascular events 
Cardiac deaths’ and ‘cerebrovascular/nervous system disorder deaths’ represented the largest number 
of fatal adverse events. Following adjudication, the number of deaths due to cerebrovascular/nervous 
system  disorder  were  for  zoledronic  acid  and  placebo  16  (0.41%)  and  6  (0.16%)  respectively, 
following  adjudication  and  22  versus  12  respectively  as  reported  by  investigators.  The  number  of 
deaths due to cardiac disease was approximately equal for both treatment groups [17 events (0.44%) 
for  zoledronic  acid  and  18  events  (0.47%)  for  placebo]  and  decreased  significantly  from  what  was 
reported by the investigator [investigator reported 39 for zoledronic acid (1.01%) and 31 for placebo 
(0.80%)].  For  other  causes  of  death,  the  rate  was  similar  in  both  treatment  groups.  Deaths  did  not 
occur in the supportive studies.  
Due  to  numerous  confounding  factors  the  MAH  considered  that  this  finding  could  not  be  explained 
based on the known mechanisms of bisphosphonates. However, as committed by the MAH, ongoing 
trials will further elucidate these findings. 
Compared with published figures on the estimated risk in this age-group, the rate of cerebrovascular 
deaths  was  unexpectedly  low.  Due  to  this  fact  and  the  low  numbers,  it  was  impossible  to  draw  any 
conclusion  as  regards  this  observed  increased  incidence  of  cerebrovascular  deaths  in  the  zoledronic 
acid group. According to the MAH, very few of the cerebrovascular adverse events were  associated 
with  atrial  fibrillation.  The  incidence  of  fatal  stroke  in  the  Aclasta  group  may  at  least  partially  be 
related  to  the  observed  higher  incidence  of  AF  in  this  group  and  thus  this  observation  adds  to  the 
concern  for  a  causal  relationship  between  Aclasta  treatment  and  atrial  fibrillation.  Currently,  this 
observation  is  not  a  cause  of  concern  but  cerebrovascular  and  cardiac  events  and  deaths  should  be 
closely monitored post-marketing and further data can be expected from planned and ongoing studies, 
including the large extension study 2301E1 (see also section “Risk management plan” below).  
Bone biopsy results (interim data) 
Changes  in  bone  quality  through  bone  biopsies  were  assessed  in  a  subset  of  131  patients  between 
Month 33 and Month 36 in Study 2301.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 131 biopsies, 93 underwent qualitative histological assessment. All 93 biopsies were found to 
contain  tetracycline  labelling  in  either  trabecular  or  cortical  bone,  indicating  a  continuation  of  bone 
remodelling. In the 67 bone biopsies that were evaluable for quantitative histomorphometry analysis, 
as expected, significant reductions were found in the zoledronic acid group as compared with placebo 
with regard to activation frequency, mineralising surface, osteoid surface, osteoid volume, and volume 
referent  bone  formation  rate.  These  changes  were  reflective  of  a  reduction  in  bone  turnover,  in 
accordance  with  the  known  mechanism  of  action  of  bisphosphonates  (73%  reduction  based  on 
activation frequency). 
These  findings  confirm  previous  results  from  Study  2313,  in  which  transiliac  bone  biopsies  were 
obtained in a subset of 25 patients (23 were adequate for examination, 10 in the zoledronic acid group 
and  13  in  the  alendronate  group)  at  the  end  of  the  study.  The  study  showed  very  similar  effects  of 
zoledronic acid and alendronate on various histomorphometric measures, with no evidence of marrow 
fibrosis  or  mineralisation  defects.  In  both  treatment  groups  the  activation  frequencies  were  reduced 
below those seen in patients with untreated postmenopausal osteoporosis (median 0.42). They did not 
differ significantly from healthy premenopausal women (median 0.13). 
Following a Scientific Advice, the MAH had committed to collect and analyse bone biopsies from 215 
patients in the phase III trials. In a follow-up advice, CHMP maintained the proposal of at least 200 
bone biopsies (100 in each treatment group) but accepted submission of 60 biopsies per group at the 
interim analysis. The MAH has provided results from 152 bone biopsies during the procedure; 111 of 
these were evaluable and are regarded sufficient for the extension of the indication.  
There  has  been  a  concern  that  long-term  treatment  with  potent  bisphosphonates  could  lead  to 
diminished bone formation and possibly “frozen bone” that would be prone to fractures. It should be 
born in mind that zoledronic acid is a highly potent bisphosphonate. 
The clinical data on fractures, however, do not indicate that there is an increased risk for fractures due 
to “frozen bone”. For long-term risk of frozen bone, further biopsy data that will be collected in the 
follow-up study of study 2301 are of importance and post-marketing safety studies will address this 
concern, as outlined in the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The number of deaths in Study 2301 was relatively small and comparable for both groups. There were 
130(3.37%) deaths in the zoledronic acid group and 112(2.91%) deaths in the placebo group . Kaplan-
Meier  estimates  of  time  to  death  from  Study  2301  at  36  months  indicate  a  death  rate  of  3.54%  for 
zoledronic acid-treated patients and 3.05% for placebo-treated patients. A hazard ratio of 1.19 (95% 
CI:  0.92,  1.54)  indicates  an  approximately  19%  greater  risk  of  death  for  zoledronic  acid  treated 
patients than placebo; however, this difference was not statistically significant (p=0.1800). 
The  overall  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  in  Study  2301  was  29.2%  in  the  zoledronic 
acid group compared to 30.1% in placebo. In the supportive studies the incidence of SAEs was 7.69% 
in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  compared  to  8.19%  in  alendronate-treated  patients.  The  incidence  of 
SAEs was comparable in all PSOCs for the pivotal and supportive studies. When SAEs were reviewed 
by preferred term, they were comparable across the pivotal and supportive studies with the exception 
of atrial fibrillation.  The overall death rate was similar in the zoledronic acid and the placebo group, 
respectively, and partly reflected the elderly age-group in the trial. The increased rate of deaths related 
to the cerebrovascular/nervous system with zoledronic acid is discussed above.  
Laboratory findings 
In  Study  2301, 
treatment-emergent  clinically  notable  serum  chemistry 
abnormalities  were  low  and  did  not  indicate  a  major  difference  between  the  treatment  groups.  The 
below laboratory data for study 2301 were presented in the interim report. 
the  occurrences  of 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Renal laboratory events  
The  majority  of  patients  (54.6%)  in  the  ITT  population  had  normal  renal  function  at  baseline, 
represented by a creatinine clearance ≥ 60 ml /min and a urinary protein level of +1or less (98.33%). 
The results for zoledronic acid and placebo patients were similar at annual visits. At Month 12 there 
was a twofold increase in the incidence of the number of patients receiving zoledronic acid who had 
increased serum creatinine > 0.5 mg/dl relative to baseline (0.52%) compared with patients receiving 
placebo  (0.25%).  At  Month  24  and  Month  36  the  incidence  of  patients  with  greater  than  0.5  mg/dl 
increases  in  serum  creatinine  was  0.11%  and  0.21%  higher  in  the  placebo  group  (0.49%  vs.  0.60%; 
and 0.97% vs. 1.18% respectively).  
There was an increased number of all renal laboratory events in patients with lower renal function at 
baseline  for  both  zoledronic  acid-  and  placebo-treated  patients.  This  finding is  consistent  in  patients 
with  higher  serum  creatinine,  lower  creatinine  clearance,  higher  serum  BUN,  and  lower  hematocrit. 
There was a notable effect of age, and active hypertension. No increased risk was noted with NSAID 
use or in patients with low BMI 
A subset of patients was monitored for short-term changes in renal function at 9 to 11 days after each 
infusion  (Renal  safety  population).  Serum  creatinine  levels  and  urine  protein  (dipstick  results)  were 
measured and compared with pre-treatment levels. 
Overall there was a 1.00% difference in the incidence between groups, with 1.81% of zoledronic acid 
treated and 0.81% of placebo patients reporting an increase in serum creatinine that was > 0.5 mg/dl 
compared with baseline. Among zoledronic acid-treated patients, the incidence of an increase in serum 
creatinine > 0.5 mg/dl was similar in patients whose baseline creatinine clearance was < 60 ml /min 
compared  with  those  whose  baseline  creatinine  clearance  was  ≥  60  ml  /min  (21  [1.98%]  of  1054 
patients  vs.  21  [1.66%]  of  1266  patients,  respectively).  The  highest  incidence  of  elevated  serum 
creatinine  occurred  in  those  zoledronic  acid  patients  with  baseline  creatinine  clearance  of  30-35  ml 
/min (5/47, 10.64%). 
A small, but consistently 2-fold incidence of urine dipstick results > 2+ over baseline was observed for 
patients in the zoledronic acid treatment group compared with patients in the placebo treatment group, 
overall and after each infusion of study drug. The overall number of events was 14 (0.63%) versus 4 
(0.18%)  in  the  zoledronic  acid  and  placebo  groups  respectively.  No  trend  was  apparent  relative  to 
baseline creatinine clearance.  
Overall there were 31 patients (1.34%), in the zoledronic acid group and 10 patients (0.43%), in the 
placebo  group  who  were  reported  to  have  had  a  serum  creatinine  increase  >  0.5  mg/dl  from  pre-
infusion  to  9-11  days  post  infusion.  The  incidence  per  infusion  ranged  from  0.51%-  0.72%  for 
zoledronic acid and from 0.06% - 0.28% for placebo. In a sub-group analysis, hypertension markedly 
affected  the  event  rate  of  short-term  changes,  which  still  were  transient  and  resolved  prior  to 
subsequent infusions,  
Overall,  short-term,  transient  increases  in  creatinine  and  proteinuria  were  observed  following 
zoledronic  acid  infusions  and  in  few  cases,  transient  glomerulonephritis.  In  contrast  to  the  post-
infusion reactions, these renal effects were not less frequent following repeated infusions. The MAH 
agreed to include the short-term adverse renal events associated with zoledronic acid infusions in the 
SPC.  Long-term, there was a higher incidence of increase in serum creatinine prior to the infusions 
compared with placebo (1% difference), and this was mainly driven by increased incidence prior to the 
2nd infusion. At other timepoints, the incidence was actually lower in the zoledronic acid group. The 
significance of these observed long-term changes is uncertain.  
About half of the population included in the Study 2301 had creatinine clearance < 60 ml /min, which 
is  reassuring  as  regards  administration  of  zoledronic  acid  to  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment. 
However, for more severe renal impairment, the CHMP considered that caution should be taken, and 
the Product Information was revised not recommending Aclasta for use in patients with a creatinine 
clearance of < 40 ml /min.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic laboratory events  
There were 18 patients (0.49%) with elevated Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) in the zoledronic acid 
group and 17 patients in the placebo (0.46%) group and 16 patients with elevated AST (0.44%) in the 
zoledronic acid group and 12 patients (0.33%) in the placebo group in study 2301. In the supportive 
studies, 2315 and 2313, 3 patients showed notably increased Aspartate Aminotransferase (ALT) levels 
(> 110  U/L)  following  administration  of  zoledronic  acid,  one  of  whom  also  had  a  clinically  notable 
AST  elevation  (>  100  U/L).  No  ALT  or  AST  elevations  were  observed  in  the  alendronate  group. 
These changes are possibly related to receiving concomitant treatment with acetaminophen. None of 
the increases resulted in discontinuation from the study and all resolved spontaneously. In Study 2407, 
shifts outside of the normal range at baseline to high at Day 10 were seen for ALT in more patients in 
the ZOL + APAP group (23 patients, 17.4%) than the other treatment groups (6 [4.5%] patients in the 
ZOL + IBU group, 7 [5.2%] patients in the ZOL + PLAC group, and 3 [4.2%] patients in the PLAC + 
PLAC group). Most of these elevations were to levels slightly above the upper limit of the reference 
range. Peak levels were observed at 10 days with values declining thereafter into the reference range. 
There were no changes observed in AST, alkaline phosphatase, or bilirubin.  
The elevated liver enzymes in the supportive studies do not raise a concern, especially as the incidence 
of  elevated  liver  enzymes  was  low  and  not  different  from  placebo  in  the  large  Study  2301,  and 
furthermore, for Study 2407, the explanation that these could be related to paracetamol administration 
seemed plausible, as relatively high doses of paracetamol were given (4g/day for 3 days). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The discontinuation rate in study 2301 was similar in the large placebo controlled study, while in the 
active  controlled  studies  withdrawals  and  adverse  events  were  more  common  in  the  zoledronic  acid 
group.  This  indicates  that  there  is  not  a  major  difference  in  the  tolerability  of  these  alternative 
treatments, i.e. zoledronic acid i.v. versus oral alendronate.  
There  was  no  difference  in  AEs  or  laboratory  abnormalities  leading  to  discontinuation  in  the 
zoledronic acid and the placebo group, respectively, in the Study 2301. In Study 2301, 209 (5.41%) 
patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  187  (4.85%)  patients  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  at 
least 1 AE that lead to premature discontinuation from study drug. The three most common AEs that 
led to study drug discontinuation included cerebrovascular accident (0.34% (13/3862) for zoledronic 
acid and 0.16% (6/3852) for placebo), acute myocardial infarction (0.16% (6/3862) for zoledronic acid 
and  0.03%  (1/3852)  for  placebo),  and  breast  cancer  (0.16%  (6/3862)  for  zoledronic  acid  and  0.05% 
(2/3852) for placebo). 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Atrial fibrillation 
The  final  safety  data  from  Study  2301  have  been  submitted  during  the  procedure  and  confirm  the 
findings  of  the  interim  analysis.  There  is  an  increased  rate  of  serious  atrial  fibrillation  events  in  the 
zoledronic acid group that is unlikely to be due to chance considering the size of the study. The most 
frequently reported SAE in the zoledronic acid group was atrial fibrillation. This AE is being included 
in the SPC via variation II-14 adopted in parallel to this procedure.  
The CHMP considered that the increased rate of serious atrial fibrillation events in the zoledronic acid 
group that was unlikely to be due to chance considering the size of the study. Post-marketing reports 
cannot be considered a sensitive measure for this adverse event, as AF is very common in the elderly 
population and until now would not have been suspected to be related to bisphosphonates.  
ONJ 
The  risk  for  development  of  ONJ  is  reported  to  be  higher  for  patients  treated  with  Zometa  for 
oncology indication than with Aclasta for benign indications. However, there are increasing numbers 
of reports of ONJ also in association with bisphosphonate treatment for osteoporosis and as zoledronic 
acid is the most potent of the bisphosphonates, there is a theoretical risk that it will cause an increased 
risk of ONJ. Furthermore, it has been shown that the number of bisphosphonate infusions increases the 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
risk for ONJ, making the long-term risk for this condition unknown and thus emphasising the need for 
long-term studies. 
Bone related AEs 
Available bone biopsy data from clinical studies do not now show signs of fragile bone. However, for 
bone safety, 6 years might not be a sufficient time period for evaluating the potentially negative effects 
on  bone  healing  and  bone  biopsies  from  patients  on  long  time  treatment  with  zoledronic  acid  for 
postmenopausal osteoporosis are needed. 
Renal AEs 
Renal  adverse  events  were  more  frequent  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  compared  with  placebo.  The 
CHMP raised concern about the somewhat higher incidence of renal deterioration among the Aclasta 
treated  patients  after  infusion  and  after  one  year.  The  renal  AEs  with  higher  frequency  are  mainly 
increased in serum creatinine (33 versus 10 if the term “azotaemia” is included) but also a higher rate 
of  acute  renal  failure  and  glomerulonephritis  has  been  observed,  even  if  these  were  rare.  Decreased 
creatinine clearance and renal impairment occurred, however, at a similar rate, which was considered 
reassuring. An expert report on renal safety was included in the submission from the MAH.  
The MAH was asked to provide dosing recommendations in the product information that are in line 
with what is recommended for Zometa. The dosing instructions in renal impairment for treatment of 
Paget’s  disease  were  also  reconsidered  and  the  Product  Information  was  revised  not  recommending 
Aclasta for use in patients with a creatinine clearance of < 40 ml /min. 
Long-term treatment 
Due to the long retention of bisphosphonates in bone, concern has been raised in literature about the 
long  term  safety  of  bisphosphonates  1.  There  have  been  reports  of  patients,  who  sustained  unusual 
spontaneous  non-spinal  fractures  while  on  alendronate  therapy  for  3  to  8  years  2,  3.  Some  of  these 
patients had also delayed or absent fracture healing during alendronate therapy. Bone biopsies showed 
markedly suppressed bone turnover  2. After prolonged severe suppression of bone turnover negative 
effects including brittle bone formation, due to increased mineralisation 4 and accumulation of  
microdamage 5 have been observed. 1 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  safety  data  accumulated  for  alendronate  can  not  automatically  be 
applied to zoledronic acid 5 mg given as yearly infusions in postmenopausal osteoporosis. 
The reason for this is, that alendronate and zoledronic acid are not exactly comparable, zoledronic acid 
being  a  more  potent  agent.  Neither  are  the  forms  of  administration,  daily  or  weekly  oral  intake  for 
alendronate and yearly i.v. infusions for zoledronic acid, exactly comparable. 
Safety  data  from  long-term  treatment  of  osteoporotic  women  with  a  yearly  5  mg  i.v.  dose  of 
zoledronic  acid  are  still  sparse  and  serious  safety  signals  have  occurred  in  the  treatment  of  patients 
with  malignant  disease  in  other  indications.  The  fact  that  Aclasta  has  been  studied  for  3  years  in 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis in a large clinical trial is reflected in the SPC.  
1 References:  
1. Ott SM. Long term safety of bisphosphonates. JCEM 2005; 90: 1897-1899 
2. Odvina CV et al. Severely suppressed bone turnover: a potential complication of alendronate therapy. JCEM 2005: 90; 
1294-1301 
3. Schneider JP. Should bisphosphonates be continued indefinitely? An unusual fracture in a healthy woman on long-term 
alendronate. Geriatrics 2006;1: 31-33 
4. Ciarella TE et al. Effects of vertebral bone fragility and bone formation rate on the mineralization levels of cancellous bone 
from white females. Bone 2003; 32: 311-315 
5. Mashiba T et al. Suppressed bone turnover by bisphosphonates increases microdamage accumulation and reduces 
biomechanical properties in dog rib. J Bone Miner Res 2000; 15: 613-620 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
 
1.4 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
At  the  time  of  the  submission  of  this  variation,  the  MAH  submitted  a  description  of  the 
Pharmacovigilance  system  and  indicated  that  a  cross-functional  Medical  Safety  Review  Board  was 
established in September 2006, which meets on regular basis as appropriate, and will ensure that all 
steps are taken to address safety risks of the MAH’s compounds/products, including the review of all 
risk  management  plans.  With  the  implementation  of  this  board  any  required  procedures  are 
documented to support its function. 
1.5 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
The elements of the RMP were consistent with the recommendations made in the ICH E2E Guideline 
on Pharmacovigilance and the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for Medicinal Products 
for Human Use (November 20, 2005). The content of the RMP was considered to be satisfactory, and 
the  MAH  agreed  to  revise  the  structure  of  the  RMP  according  to  current  guidelines  including  the 
template for EU RMP as a post opinion commitment 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
New  safety  information  will  be  collated,  reviewed  and  analysed  from  multiple  sources,  including 
spontaneous reports, post-approval clinical studies, reports from the Heath Authorities and published 
literatures  on  an  ongoing basis.  Detection  of  emerging  potential safety  signals  will  be  performed  by 
periodic  cumulative  evaluation  of  AEs  reported.  Special  analysis  and  discussion  of  areas  of  interest 
will be included. The results will be compiled in the Periodic Safety Update Report, with summaries 
and conclusions submitted to the Health Authorities. The PSURs will include the following specific 
targeted  areas  of  interest:  hypocalcaemia,  renal  dysfunction,  ONJ,  ocular  adverse  events,  atrial 
fibrillation and cerebrovascular AEs. 
Summary of important identified and potential risks  
Identified risks 
Post dose symptoms 
In Study 2301, the most common early onset AEs (=5%) within 3 days of any infusion included fever, 
myalgia,  influenza-like  illness,  headache,  gastrointestinal  symptoms,  extremity  pain  and  arthralgia. 
The  incidence  of  post  dose  symptoms  decreased  after  each  annual  infusion.  Post  dose  symptoms  do 
not pose any risk to the overall health of the patient.  
Osteonecrosis of the jaw 
As of 30th April 2007, one case of Osteomyelitis of the jaw and no cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported  as  adverse  events  in  the  studies  on  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  or  Paget’s  disease  with 
Aclasta. Maxillofacial adjudication of the total HORIZON safety database after a systematic MedDRA 
search  for  maxillofacial  events  found  1  case  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  1  case  in  the  placebo 
group meeting predefined adjudication criteria for ONJ. No reports of osteonecrosis or osteomyelitis 
of the jaw have been received from post-marketing sources.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  risk  of  ONJ  should  be  included  as  an  identified  risk  and  not  as  a 
potential risk as initially proposed by the MAH. It was identified with both the same active substance 
and the class and it is not known whether this ADR is dose dependent, so the lower dose of zoledronic 
acid in Aclasta in PMO patients is not a reason for labelling this risk as a potential only. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular adverse events 
Ocular adverse events such as uveitis, iritis, episcleritis and conjunctivitis are known class effects of 
bisphosphonates.  In  Study  2301,  the  incidence  of  confirmed,  adjudicated  ocular  adverse  events  was 
seen in less than 3.3% of patients treated with Aclasta vs. 2.7% in placebo. Of this, conjunctivitis was 
seen  most  frequently  followed  by  uveitis  and  episcleritis.  Patients  treated  with  Aclasta  exhibited  a 
30% higher relative risk of developing ocular adverse events. These adverse events were not visually 
threatening and could be treated conservatively with topical therapy using either steroids or antibiotics.  
Renal dysfunction 
Bisphosphonates  are  excreted  by  the  kidney  and  are  known  to  have  the  potential  to  affect  renal 
function,  especially  when  given  intravenously  and  administered  as  a  bolus.  Therefore,  particular 
attention  was  paid  to  evaluate  any  signs  of  potential  renal  problems.  In  Study  2301,  systematic 
assessment of patients 9-11 days following infusion was able to detect short-term increases in serum 
creatinine (1.8% in ZOL vs. 0.8% in placebo) and proteinuria (0.6% in patients on ZOL vs. 0.182% on 
placebo).  In  general,  there  would  appear  to  be  no  pattern  of  increased  risk  of  renal  events  above  a 
baseline creatinine clearance of 40 ml/min.   
Hypocalcaemia 
Transient hypocalcaemia is a well characterised side effect to the treatment with bisphosphonates. In 
Study  2301,  serum  calcium  values  below  1.87  mmol/l  were  detectable  in  0.24%  of  patients  treated 
with Aclasta vs. 0.13% in patients treated with placebo. None of the cases were symptomatic and they 
in  patients  with  pre-existing  conditions  such  as  parathyroidectomy  or 
generally  occurred 
malabsorption of calcium.  
Potential risks 
Osteonecrosis outside the jaw and non-union or delayed fracture healing 
Four patients in the zoledronic acid group and 3 patients in the placebo group revealed osteonecrosis 
outside the maxillofacial area. One patient in the zoledronic acid group and one patient in the placebo 
group  had  a  report  of  a  non-union  fracture,  confirmed  by  the  adjudication  committee.  Thus  no 
evidence  that  administration  of  zoledronic  acid  is  associated  with  increased  risk  of  osteonecrosis 
outside the jaw or impaired fracture healing.  
Atrial fibrillation 
Cardiovascular  side  effects  have  not  been  associated  with  bisphosphonates  in  previous  studies.  In 
Study  2301,  patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid  exhibited  a  threefold  greater  incidence  of  atrial 
fibrillation SAE’s. A statistically significant increase in the risk of all atrial fibrillation events was not 
demonstrated and an ECG study in a subgroup of patients did not reveal any differences between the 
zoledronic  acid  and  placebo  groups.  The  events  did  not  occur  early  after  infusion,  when  drug 
concentrations  in  serum  were  the  highest.  Oncology  patients  subjected  to  doses  much  higher  than 
those used in Paget’s disease and postmenopausal osteoporosis have not revealed increased incidence 
of atrial fibrillation. This finding can however not be explained based on the known mechanisms of 
bisphosphonates,  and  might  constitute  spurious  findings.  However,  the  ongoing  trials  will  be 
monitored to further elucidate these findings. 
The CHMP did not consider the higher rate of AF as an SAE as a chance finding only, as other factors 
that support a relationship to Aclasta for AF are the observed increased incidence of congestive heart 
failure  and  sick  sinus  syndrome  and  stroke  related  death  as  compared  with  placebo.  All  of  these 
conditions  are  known  to  be  associated  with  AF.  Furthermore,  in  study  2301,  previous  use  of 
bisphosphonates was an independent risk factor for AF together with well known risk factors such as 
age and heart failure. This was unexpected and may indicate a cumulative dose related effect. Lastly, 
plausible  mechanisms have been identified, such as  effects on calcium homeostasis and on cytokine 
release. However, a significant confounding factor could be the association between osteoporosis and 
cardiovascular  disease.  The  MAH  pointed  out  that  it  could  be  that  patients,  evaluated  as  being  so 
osteoporotic they demanded treatment with bisphosphonates by their physicians prior to participating 
in  the  clinical  trial,  also  had  more  severe  CV  disease.  The  presence  of  coronary  artery  disease  as  a 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significant risk factor of the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias was also demonstrated in Study 2301, 
therefore AF was considered only a potential risk at this stage. 
Cerebrovascular events 
In study 2301, there was a greater number of deaths for which a cerebrovascular event as underlying 
condition for zoledronic (0.34%) than for placebo (0.13%). The total number of strokes between the 2 
treatment  groups  was,  however,  similar,  and  overall  prevalence  of  stroke  less  than  that  seen  in 
previous cross-sectional studies of populations with characteristics similar to those of patients in study 
2301. Due to the numerous confounding factors the cardiovascular experts considered this finding can 
not be explained based on the known mechanisms of bisphosphonates, and might constitute spurious 
findings. However, the ongoing trials will further elucidate these findings. 
Gastrointestinal adverse events 
In Study 2301, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal AEs was similar between patients treated with 
Aclasta  (38.24%)  and  placebo  (35.28%).  In  Study  2313  and  Study  2315  the  incidence  rates  were 
28.0% for Aclasta and 24.6% for alendronate. Nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were seen more often 
in  patients  treated  with  Aclasta  during  the  first  3  days  following  infusions  as  part  of  the  post  dose 
symptoms, these imbalances disappeared at later time points.  
The  CHMP  pointed  out  that  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  as  identified  risk  can  however  be 
questioned. In all studies performed, the incidence of these events has been similar in Aclasta treated 
patients as in placebo groups and also when compared with alendronate, gastrointestinal side effects 
sere similar. The CHMP therefore recommended to include it as a potential risk only. 
Enhanced Pharmacovigilance activities 
In  addition  to  the  previously  reported  Pharmacovigilance  activities  the  MAH  has  committed  to 
perform  one  epidemiological  cohort  study  for  the  assessment  of  bone  and  cardiovascular  safety  and 
one study to further elucidate hypocalcaemia effects. In the hypocalcaemia study the effectiveness of 
patient  and  health  care  provider  education  strategies  about  calcium  and  vitamin  D  supplementation 
will be assessed. The incidence of treatment-emergent hypocalcaemia at day 9-11 in this study will be 
compared to the incidence seen in the pivotal Paget’s study. 
Risk minimisation 
After launch of Aclasta for PMO, the MAH proposed to collect prescribing information periodically to 
ensure  that  Aclasta  is  appropriately  prescribed  in  accordance  to  the  approved  SPC.  Additionally,  a 
specific  leaflet  drafted  in  lay  language  will  be  in  the  patient  information  pack  and  available  to  the 
patient  when  they  are  prescribed  Aclasta.  The  MAH  will  proactively  provide  information  on  the 
safety/tolerability  profile  of  Aclasta  for  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  to  encourage  proper 
product use. A prescription database covering France, Germany, Italy, Spain and UK will also be used 
to gather further data. The information is derived from doctor-patient consultations and the treatment 
given.  The  data  is  collected  from  a  representative  sample  of  doctors  practising  in  the  primary  care 
sector of each country that is being monitored. The MAH committed to submit the materials reflecting 
the  content  of  the  physician  educational  material  and  the patient  information  pack  to  the CHMP  for 
review as a Follow-Up measure. 
Specific strategies for communication initiatives, as appropriate for each of the identified and potential 
safety concerns will include: 
•   SPC and PL - labelling of the appropriate identified and potential risks were included in the SPC 
and PL. 
•   Guide for Healthcare Professionals - to reduce the risk of prescribing to inappropriate patients, the 
prescribers  will  be  provided  with  a  “Guide  for  Healthcare  Professionals”  to  assist  them  in 
identifying patients suitable for Aclasta treatment 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Patient  and  Healthcare  Professionals  Education  Initiatives  -  the  programme  will  include 
educational  materials containing the key safety messages for the appropriate clinical management 
of identified  and potential risks 
In addition to the risk minimisation activities described above, information about the incidence rates 
for atrial fibrillation in Study 2301 was included into the SPC and PL in variation II-14. An overview 
on the Pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation activities is presented in table 7. 
Table 7: Summary of the RMP for Aclasta. 
Safety concern  Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Detailed information in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Detailed information in section 4.4 of the SPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Listed in ADR section 4.8 of the SMPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Detailed information in section 4.8 and 4.4 of 
the SPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Detailed information in section 4.4 of the SPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Identified risks 
Post dose 
symptoms 
Renal 
dysfunction 
Ocular adverse 
events 
Hypocalcaemia 
Osteonecrosis 
of the jaw 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Adjudication of all clinical trial 
cases 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Adjudication of all clinical trial 
cases 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Study to explore adherence to 
Calcium and Vitamin D 
supplementation 
recommendations and incidence 
of hypocalcemia 
-15 day expedited reporting 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Adjudication of all 
postmarketing and clinical trial 
cases 
-Research activities to further 
elucidate ONJ 
-Epidemiological cohort study 
-Retrospective study in non 
oncology patients (Australia) 
-Long term safety data: 3 Year 
Extension to Study 2301E1 
Potential risks 
Osteonecrosis 
outside the jaw 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern  Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Adjudication of all clinical trial 
cases 
Epidemiological cohort study 
-Long term safety data: 3 Year 
Extension to Study 2301E1 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Adjudication of all clinical trial 
cases 
-Epidemiological cohort study 
-Long term safety data: 3 Year 
Extension to Study 2301E1 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Adjudication of all clinical trial 
cases 
-Epidemiological cohort study 
-Long term safety data: 3 Year 
Extension to Study 2301E1 
-Close monitoring and cumulative 
analysis in PSURs 
-Special follow up of cases 
-Adjudication of all clinical trial 
cases 
-Epidemiological cohort study 
-Enhanced monitoring activities 
in extension trials of Study 2301 
-Long term safety data: 3 Year 
Extension to Study 2301E1 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Non 
union/delayed 
union 
Cerebrovascular 
events 
Atrial 
fibrillation 
Gastrointestinal 
adverse events 
initiative 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Listed in ADR section 4.8 of the SPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
Listed in ADR section 4.8 of the SPC 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient and healthcare professional education 
initiative 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  shall  ensure  that  all  physicians  who  are  expected  to 
prescribe/use  Aclasta  in  this  new  indication  with  a  physician  information  pack  containing  the 
following: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient information pack 
The physician educational material should contain the following key elements: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Reminder card with the following key messages: 
o  Need to measure serum creatinine before treatment with Aclasta 
o  Recommendation not to use Aclasta in patients with creatinine clearance < 40 ml/min 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Contraindication in pregnancy and in breast-feeding women due to potential 
teratogenicity 
o  Need to ensure appropriate hydration of the patient 
o  Need to infuse Aclasta slowly over a period of no less than 15 minutes 
o  One-yearly dosing regime 
o  Adequate calcium and vitamin D intake is recommended in association with Aclasta 
administration.  
o  Need for appropriate physical activity, non-smoking and healthy diet 
•  Patient information pack 
The patient information pack should be provided and contain the following key messages: 
•  Package leaflet 
•  Contraindication in pregnancy and in breast-feeding women 
•  Need for adequate calcium & vitamin D supplementation, appropriate physical activity, non-
smoking and healthy diet 
•  Key signs and symptoms of serious adverse events 
•  When to seek attention from the health care provider 
The  MAH  has  in  addition  to  previous  pharmacovigilance  activities  committed  to  perform  an 
epidemiological study on bone and cardiovascular safety and a study to explore adherence to calcium 
and vitamin D supplementation and incidence of hypocalcaemia. Moreover, the SPC was amended in 
variation II-14, which was adopted in parallel to this procedure, with information about the incidence 
rates for atrial fibrillation in Study 2301. 
II. 
OVERALL CONCLUSIONS AND RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  CHMP  considered  that  additional  non-clinical  bone  safety  studies  were  unlikely  to  provide 
significant  new  information  on  bone  safety.  While  the  toxicological  and  pharmacological  profile  of 
bisphosphonates  seems  overall  qualitatively  similar  there  are  considerable  differences  in  potency.  In 
relation  to  the  extension  of  the  indication,  the  known  toxicity  of  zoledronate,  in  particular  renal 
toxicity,  and  the  fact  that  biochemical  markers  do  not  reliably  detect  renal  injury,  needed  to  be 
considered. 
The  additional  studies  performed  since  2004  confirm  the  earlier  findings  and  have  increased  the 
understanding of the mechanisms of action of zoledronate. No new problems or worries have emerged 
from these studies. 
Efficacy 
For time to first hip fracture, the risk reduction was 41%. Similar results for hip fractures were shown 
for  those  20%  receiving  other  concomitant  anti-osteoporotic  treatment  (excluding  bisphosphonates). 
The results for hip-fractures, however, were not consistent across all sub-groups and in patients with 
previous  use  of  bisphosphonates,  the  risk  for  hip  fracture  was  actually  increased.  It  could  not  be 
evaluated  if  this  was  a  chance  finding  or  not  and  therefore  it  needs  to  be  discussed  further.  Also  in 
patients ≥ 75 years of age, the risk reduction was only marginal. 
However, the CHMP agreed that the overall results on hip and other clinical fractures were convincing 
but it was considered likely that zoledronic acid has less effect at sites where cortical bone is present 
compared  with  the  vertebrae  where  trabecular  bone  predominates.  The  non-significant  results  with 
regard to e.g. wrist fractures could support this. Less efficacy could also be expected in involutional 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
osteoporosis as compared with postmenopausal osteoporosis. The CHMP further pointed out that the 
mean age of the patients with previous bisphosphonate use compared with the bisphosphonate-naïve 
patients is not known at this time.  
Results  with  regard  to  BMD  data  and  biomarkers  were  consistent  with  fracture  data,  however,  the 
CHMP considered it possible that similar or better efficacy could have been achieved with a different 
dosing, e.g. using a lower dose at a more frequent interval. The results indicate that zoledronic acid is 
non-inferior  to  oral  alendronate,  although  there  was  a  trend  for  larger  increases  in  BMD  with 
alendronate at 12 months and furthermore, a more stable suppression of biomarkers was observed with 
alendronate  over  the  same  period.  The  annual  dosing,  however,  can  be  expected  to  be  of  a  major 
benefit to many patients. 
Due to the data on fracture rates in different age categories presented above, the CHMP concluded that 
Aclasta is efficacious also in the elderly. 
In  conclusion,  Zoledronic  acid  5  mg  once  per  year  reduced  bone  resorption  to the  lower  half  of  the 
premenopausal  range  and  provided  consistent  anti-fracture  efficacy  across  all  osteoporotic  fractures. 
The relative reduction in vertebral and non-vertebral fractures was better than that seen for oral drugs 
like  alendronate  and  risedronate,  which  induce  stable  reduction  of  bone  turnover.  The  MAH 
considered  the  slight  increases  in  bone  turnover  between  dosing  beneficial,  because  it  may  secure 
some  repair  of  microdamage,  should  it  occur.  Nevertheless,  bone  resorption  activity  remains  in  the 
lower  half  of  the  premenopausal  range,  where,  based  on  previous  analyses,  maximum  anti-fracture 
efficacy should be secured. 
Safety 
Results from the large, long-term pivotal study in osteoporosis reveal in general no new or alarming 
adverse reactions to zoledronic acid. Adverse reactions were  mainly post-infusion reactions, such as 
pyrexia and influenza-like illness, occurring within 3 days after infusion and were most prominent at 
day  2.  The  rate  of  post-infusion  reactions  overall  was  twice  that  compared  with  placebo  and  for 
individual symptoms, 2-5 times more frequent. For individual symptoms such as pyrexia, the rate was 
16%  compared  with  2%  in  the  placebo  group.  These  reactions  were  most  prominent  after  the  first 
infusion  but  decline  in  frequency  with  repeated  infusions.  Administration  of  paracetamol/ibuprofen 
reduced  these  reactions  by  about  50%.  The  SPC  was  updated  to  reflect  these  AEs  and  the  effect  of 
administration of paracetamol/ibuprofen.  
Overall, the critical side effects were: 
•  Atrial  fibrillation.  Unexpectedly  high  rate  of  serious  atrial  fibrillation  was  observed  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  group.  As  outlined  above,  Variation  II-14  is  adopted  in  parallel  to  reflect  this 
adverse event in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
•  Renal adverse events.  Zoledronic acid infusions were associated with transient increases in serum 
creatinine and in rare instances, acute renal failure and transient glomerulonephritis. The rare and 
transient  episodes  of  acute  deterioration  of  renal  function  were  considered  similar  to  those 
reported for the indication Paget's disease.  
•  Osteonecrosis  of  the  Jaw  (ONJ).  Osteonecrosis  was  rare  and  was  not  more  frequent  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  group.  Particularly,  there  was  one  case  of  osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  group  compared  with  1  possible  case  in  the  placebo  group.  These  results  are 
reassuring  but  it  is  important  that  all  cases  of  osteonecrosis  continue  to  be  monitored.  What 
appears clear is that the incidence of ONJ is definitely lower than that reported among malignant 
patients.  
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk/benefit assessment 
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  Aclasta  in  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  have  been  well 
characterised for up to three years of treatment. The clinical studies have essentially been performed in 
accordance  with  what  is  recommended  in  the  current  CHMP  guidelines.  A  clearly  significant 
beneficial risk reduction of new vertebral fractures as well as of hip fractures during a three year study 
period was demonstrated in study 2301. The fracture prevention effects appear to be at least as good as 
for  currently  approved  oral  bisphosphonate  regimens.  The  once  a  year  i.v  administration  can  be 
expected  to  increase  control  of  patient  compliance  and  also  to  reduce  the  risks  of  oesophageal  side 
effects, as compared to oral bisphosphonate treatment.  
In  study  2301,  there  was  an  increased  risk  of  serious  AEs  from  atrial  fibrillation  in  the  Aclasta 
treatment  group  and  also  an  increase  for  stroke  related  death  was  observed.  However,  in  absolute 
numbers  the  increase  was  low.  Whether  these  are  class  effects  for  bisphosphonates  remains  to  be 
clarified.  
There are also still concerns for bone safety as there are no long time data available on alendronate 
once  yearly  i.v.  treatment.  The  risk  for  ONJ  associated  with  zoledronate  treatment  extending  over 
three  years  for  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  must  be  regarded  as  insufficiently  characterised.  That 
appropriate follow up measures with regard to long term bone safety to which the MAH committed is 
a prerequisite for approval of zoledronic acid for an osteoporosis indication.  
The  increased  risk  for  renal  impairment  after  infusion  of  Aclasta  is  of  concern  and  the  drug  should 
therefore not be administered to patients with a calculated glomerular filtration rate below 40 ml/min.  
Taken together, the total benefit of 5 mg zoledronic acid iv yearly for the treatment of postmenopausal 
osteoporosis is considered to outweigh the risks of the treatment.  
Since there was a clearly significant beneficial effect on risk reduction of new vertebral fractures as 
well  as  of  hip  fractures  during  a  three  year  study  period  in  study  2301,  the  total  benefit  of  5  mg 
zoledronic acid i.v. yearly for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis is considered to outweigh 
the  risks  of  the  treatment.  However,  the  SPC  states  that  an  increased  risk  of  serious  events  of  atrial 
fibrillation has been seen in clinical studies on postmenopausal osteoporotic women. Furthermore, the 
question of cardiovascular safety for bisphosphonates has to be discussed further by the CHMP. 
II 
CONCLUSION 
On  19  July  2007  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II,  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet subject to the additional commitments undertaken. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
