European Medicines Agency 
London, 29 May 2009 
EMEA/CHMP/358213/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Aclasta 
International non-proprietary name: zoledronic acid 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000595/II/0017 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Zoledronic acid is a nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate and as such, inhibits osteoclast mediated bone 
resorption.  
For the therapeutic indication of Paget's disease of the bone, zoledronic acid is approved worldwide 
under the trade name Aclasta as of 15 June 2007 in 61 countries and as Reclast in the United States.  
In  July  2007,  Aclasta  received  a  positive  CHMP  opinion  for  the  treatment  of  post-menopausal 
osteoporosis  (PMO)  in  women  at  increased  risk  of  fracture,  and  in  July  2008,  the  indication  was 
further extended to include treatment of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women and men at increased 
risk of fracture, including those with a recent low-trauma hip fracture. 
An intravenous formulation of zoledronic acid has been approved first in August 2000 and currently in 
over 96 countries worldwide, including Europe, under the trade name of Zometa. It is used in several 
oncology  indications,  including  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia,  treatment  of  patients  with  multiple 
myeloma, and treatment of bone metastases from solid tumours. 
Aclasta is presented in vials of 5 mg in 5 ml of solution for dilution with 100 ml of isotonic saline or 
dextrose.  The  presentation  intended  for  the  market  was  also  used  in  most  of  the  clinical  studies  of 
PMO. It consists of 5 mg zoledronic acid in 100 ml of solution, containing mannitol as an isotonising 
agent. 
Zoledronic  acid  in  the  treatment  of  PMO  and  in  the  indication  proposed  in  this  variation  is 
administered once a year as a 5 mg i.v. infusion over at least 15 minutes. 
The purpose of the current submission for a Type II variation for Aclasta was to seek approval for an 
extension of indication to include treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, a 
secondary form of osteoporosis, in both men and women. 
DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAMME/COMPLIANCE  WITH  CHMP  GUIDANCE/SCIENTIFIC 
ADVICE 
Written scientific advice from the CHMP for the treatment and prevention of GIO was given in March 
2004. The study design of study 2306 was discussed and the opinion given by the CHMP was that a 
placebo-controlled study design would be preferred. However, it was considered by the CHMP that an 
active-controlled  trial  focusing  on  the  non-inferiority  for  BMD  as  primary  endpoint  might  also  be 
acceptable. 
The  study  recruited  patients  with  GIO  in  two  subpopulations:  “treatment”  and  “prevention”.  The 
“treatment”  subpopulation  included  those  patients  who  at  baseline  had  received  glucocorticoid 
treatment  for  >3  months  at  a  prednisone-equivalent  daily  dose  of  at  least  7.5  mg.  The  “prevention” 
subpopulation  included  those  patients  at  baseline  with  glucocorticoid  treatment  of  ≤  3  months  at  a 
prednisone-equivalent  daily  dose  of  at  least  7.5  mg.  The  3-month  cut-off  for  separation  of  the  two 
subpopulations  of  patients  was  also  used  in  the  two  placebo-controlled  risedronate  studies  and  is 
recommended  elsewhere  for  the  assessment  of  therapies  in  GIO.  Based  on  CHMP  scientific  advice, 
non-inferiority  margins  and  analyses  for  the  treatment  and  prevention  indications  were  assessed 
separately  for  each  indication.  A  non-inferiority  design  with  BMD  as  an  endpoint  was  considered 
acceptable, although a placebo controlled trial would have been preferred. 
GENERAL COMMENTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH GMP, GLP, GCP  
All studies fully adhered to GCP guidelines of the CHMP and Directive 91/507/EEC of the European 
Union. All studies were closely monitored by the MAH or a contract organisation for compliance to 
the protocols and procedures described in them.  
Page 2 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NON-CLINICAL ASPECTS 
Pharmacokinetics  
The disposition of zoledronic acid in rats and dogs is outlined in the Scientific Discussion for the 
initial Marketing Authorisation and shows the following characteristics:  
1)  
2)  
3)  
4) 
a high and persistent affinity for bone tissue;  
rapid elimination from the circulation and most soft tissues; 
no evidence of biotransformation; and  
accumulation in bone which is proportional to the cumulative dose. 
In  rats,  approximately  60%  of  the  dose  is  excreted  with  the  urine  within  12  months.  The  remaining 
portion of the dose is predominantly bound to the bone tissue, from where it is slowly eliminated. 
Based  on  non-clinical  studies  in  rats,  the  apparent  half-life  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the  whole  skeleton 
appears to be longer than 360 days.  
Reproductive toxicity 
In reproductive toxicity studies previously submitted for the initial MA, two species (rats and rabbits) 
were evaluated utilising s.c. administration of zoledronic acid. Teratogenicity was observed in rats at 
doses  ≥  0.2  mg/kg/day  over  9  consecutive  days  of  dosing  between  Day  6  –  15  of  gestation.  It  was 
manifested by external, visceral and skeletal malformations. The total dose delivered was equivalent to 
approximately 3 times the human dose of 5 mg based on the comparison of estimated AUCs of free 
zoledronic acid in rat and human. This estimate takes into consideration the difference between rat and 
human in the percentage of drug bound to plasma proteins. Dystocia was observed at the lowest dose 
(0.01  mg/kg  body  weight)  tested  in  rats.  No  teratological  or  embryo/foetal  effects  were  observed  in 
rabbits, although maternal toxicity was marked at 0.1 mg/kg due to decreased serum calcium levels. 
These observations are already reflected in the Product Information. 
CLINICAL ASPECTS 
In contrast to primary osteoporosis, in which age and/or menopause are the two main determinants of 
osteoporosis (e.g. PMO), glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis is a secondary form that shows slightly 
different characteristics compared to the primary form. 
The association between glucocorticoid therapy and increased risk of fractures is well established and 
even doses as low as 2.5 mg prednisolone daily have been shown to increase the risk of fractures. This 
risk increases with increasing dose of glucocorticoids. The risk rapidly increases during the first 3 –
 6 months after initiation of steroid therapy (van Staa et al. 2000a). Glucocorticoids suppress protein 
synthesis in many cell types, including osteoblasts and osteoclasts. These effects lead to a suppression 
of  bone  formation  and  increased  bone  resorption.  The  trabecular  bone  is  especially  affected  by  the 
glucocorticoid induced disturbances in the bone mineral matrix. Vertebral fractures seem to occur at a 
higher  bone  mineral  density  (BMD)  in  GIO  than  in  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  (PMO).  Many 
diseases  for  which  glucocorticoids  are  used  also  have  an  inherent  increased  risk  of  fracture  (e.g. 
asthma, inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease).  
Measures against corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis should therefore be instituted as soon after the 
commencement of glucocorticoid therapy as possible (Van Staa et al 2000b). 
Zoledronic acid is proven to show an effect to preserve the bone architecture (Recker et al 2007) and 
thus,  initiating  treatment  with  zoledronic  acid  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  start  of  glucocorticoid 
therapy could preserve bone architecture and reduce the incidence of fractures in patients with GIO. 
Only  a  minority  of  patients  on  glucocorticoids  are  at  present  receiving  prophylaxis  medication  to 
prevent bone loss. Existing medical prevention therapy for this condition are certain bisphosphonates 
(nationally authorised) and teriparatide. 
Page 3 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  goal  of  (primary)  osteoporosis  therapy  is  prevention  of  fractures  in  susceptible  patients. 
According  to  the  EMEA  guideline  on  the  evaluation  of  new  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of 
primary osteoporosis, “the clinical significance of osteoporosis lies in the fractures that occur”. This 
statement can be considered valid also for other forms of osteoporosis. 
In  contrast  to  PMO,  there  is  no  CHMP  guideline  for  treatment  or  prevention  of  GIO.  There  are 
however recommendations for the registration of agents to be used in the prevention and treatment of 
GIO, issued by the Group for the Respect and Excellence in Science (GREES). These guidelines were 
updated in 2005 (Abadie et al 2005). 
PHARMACOKINETICS 
Key  PK/PD  studies,  were  conducted  in  patients  with  bone  metastases,  receiving  single  or  multiple 
infusions  of  2 – 16 mg  zoledronic  acid,  and  presented  in  earlier  submissions  for  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the  oncologic  indication,  and  1  subsequent  PK/PD  study. 
Additional pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed in either patients with Paget’s disease or 
in patients with osteoporosis. For Aclasta the pharmacokinetics data are also outlined in the scientific 
discussion for the initial Marketing Authorisation. 
In  humans,  the  mean  urinary  excretion  of  zoledronic  acid  over  the  first  24  hours  post  dose  was 
44 ± 18% of the injected dose, with very low urinary concentrations of drug thereafter. Since less than 
3  %  of  an  intravenous  dose  is  found  in  the  faeces,  this  indicates  that  >50%  of  the  administered 
zoledronic acid dose may be taken up by bone.  Zoledronic acid, like other bisphosphonates, remains 
in  the  skeleton  for  a  very  long  time.  Using  an  estimated  human  half-life  of  10  years,  the  fraction 
remaining after one and three years would be approximately 93% and 81%, respectively. 
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 
The dose finding study 0041 has been assessed in the AR for EMEA/H/C/595/II/10, which lead to the 
approval  of  Aclasta  5  mg  once  a  year  in  “Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  post-menopausal  women  at 
increased risk of fracture”. The same dose is suggested for the ongoing variation 595/II/16, based on 
the results from the clinical study 2310 in patients who had suffered a low energy trauma hip fracture. 
Phase  II  data  for  zoledronic  acid  had  shown  that  after  one  year  of  treatment,  all  of  the  five  studied 
doses (0.25 mg every third month, 0.5 mg every third month, 1 mg every third month, 2 mg every six 
month and 4 mg once a year) led to similar increases in lumbar spine BMD but at month 12 only a 
relatively small reduction for resorption markers was seen for the 4 mg yearly dose. This contributed 
to  the  assumption  that  a  higher  dose  than  the  studied  doses  would  be  needed  to  provide  sufficient 
inhibition  of  bone  turnover  over  12  months  and  thereby  secure  an  antifracture  effect.  Therefore  the 
higher  dose  of  5 mg  yearly  was  chosen  for  the  phase  III  Aclasta  program  for  non-oncology 
indications.  
The dose and method of dosing of zoledronic acid used in the pivotal study for this extension of the 
indication are those approved for Aclasta for use in postmenopausal osteoporosis.  
CLINICAL EFFICACY 
Study 2306 was a randomised 12 month double-blind double-dummy active controlled phase III study 
in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIO).  
Study design 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  study duration  as  well  as  main  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were 
chosen based on previous studies with  risedronate in GIO, for  comparison (Cohen  et  al. 1999). The 
Page 4 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study was conducted in 54 study centres in 16 countries in 4 continents, during the period June 2004 to 
April 2007.  The design of Study 2306 is summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1: Summary of active-controlled trial 2306 
objective/ 
Study 
No. 
2306 
of 
Study 
duration 
12 months 
Study 
Population 
Phase III, randomised, 
double-blind,  double-
stratified, 
dummy, 
controlled 
active 
parallel group efficacy 
/ safety study in GIO 
No. 
patients1 
patients 
833 
(545 
the 
in 
treatment 
subpopulation 
and  288  in  the 
prevention 
subpopulation) 
efficacy 
Primary 
endpoint(s) 
Percent  change 
in 
lumbar  spine  BMD 
at 
months 
relative to baseline 
12 
x 
Medication, 
dosing scheme 
1 
5  mg 
zoledronic  acid  (as 
single  15  min  i.v. 
infusion) 
Risedronate  5  mg 
p.o./once a day 
1 Randomised 
Key: i.v. = intravenous, p.o. = per os (by mouth), BMD=bone mineral density, GIO=glucocorticoid-induced 
osteoporosis 
Note:  Dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) was used to measure BMD. 
Study participants 
Males  and  females  18  to  85  years  of  age  and  treated  with  at  least  7.5  mg  of  oral  prednisone  or 
equivalent systemic corticosteroid daily and expected to continue on corticosteroids for at lest one year 
were  included  in  the  study.  Study  participants  were  recruited  to  one  of  the  following  two 
subpopulations: 
A. 
B. 
Patients on high dose glucocorticoid therapy for 3 months or less, “prevention subpopulation” 
Patients on high dose glucocorticoid therapy for more than 3 months, “treatment subpopulation” 
Treatments 
The  active  control  design  was  chosen  because  a  placebo  controlled  study  was  thought  to  have  been 
unethical, as these patients on high dose glucocorticoids were believed to be at high risk of fracture 
and  because  of  the  availability  of  several  approved  therapies  for  this  category  of  patients.  Study 
participants received 5 mg of zoledronic acid or placebo, administered as a slow infusion of 100 ml 
over  15  minutes,  in  sufficiently  hydrated  patients.  Risedronate  and  matching  oral  placebo  capsules 
were taken daily at least 30 minutes before the first food or drink of the day (except plain water). 
Elemental  calcium  1000  mg  daily  and  vitamin  D  in  a  dose  of between  400  and  1200  IU daily  were 
taken daily by the study patients.   
Primary objectives 
The primary objective for the treatment subpopulation was to demonstrate that the % change in lumbar 
spine BMD at month 12 relative to baseline in males and females treated with one i.v. zoledronic acid 
5 mg  dose  at  randomisation  was  noninferior  to  the  %  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  at  month  12 
compared to baseline in those patients treated with oral risedronate 5 mg daily. 
The  primary  objective  for  the  prevention  subpopulation  was  to  demonstrate  that  the  %  change  in 
lumbar spine BMD at month 12 relative to baseline in males and females patients treated with one iv 
zoledronic acid 5 mg dose at randomisation was not inferior to the % change in lumbar spine BMD at 
month 12 compared to baseline to those patients who were treated with oral risedronate 5 mg daily. 
Page 5 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary objectives 
The  following  objectives  were  evaluated  separately  in  the  treatment  and  prevention  subpopulations, 
with the exception of the morphometric vertebral fractures and clinical fractures which were evaluated 
overall: 
• 
To assess the % change in lumbar spine BMD at month 6 relative to baseline in patients treated 
with zoledronic acid compared to patients treated with risedronate. 
To assess the % change in BMD at the total hip, femoral neck, trochanter, and distal radius at 
month 6 and month 12 relative to baseline in patients treated with zoledronic acid compared to 
patients treated with risedronate. 
To assess changes in biochemical markers of the bone turnover at day 10, month 3, month 6 and 
month  12  relative  to  baseline  in  patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid  compared  to  patients 
treated with risedronate. 
To assess the change in height at month 6 and month 12 in patients treated with zoledronic acid 
compared to patients treated with risedronate. 
• 
• 
• 
The following objectives were evaluated separately in the treatment and prevention subpopulations 
and overall: 
• 
To explore changes from baseline in the total score of the health-related quality of life (QOL) 
questionnaire (EQ-5D) and its subcomponents over time in patients treated with zoledronic acid 
compared to patients treated with risedronate. 
 To assess differences in bone histomorphometry parameters, as well as bone architecture, 3D 
microtomographic  and  bone  histopathology  parameters  in  a  subset  of  patients  for  zoledronic 
acid compared to risedronate. 
To  perform  exploratory  pharmacogenetic  assessments  to  examine  whether  individual  genetic 
variation in genes relating to drug metabolism, osteoporosis and the drug target pathway confer 
differential response to zoledronic acid. 
• 
• 
Sample size 
Initially 760 patients were planned to be included (504 in treatment and 252 in prevention group) but 
as the drop out rate exceeded the presumed 10 %, the sample size was reassessed (in accordance with 
the study protocol) and reset to 810 patients. A total of 833 patients were included in the study, 545 in 
the treatment and 288 in the prevention subpopulation.  
Demographic data 
Demographic characteristics in the “treatment” subpopulation were comparable for the two treatment 
groups.  The  majority  of  patients  were  Caucasian  (93.4%)  and  female  (67.5%).  The  mean  weight 
(72.7 kg)  of  the  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  and  risedronate  groups  was  nearly  identical.  The 
median  age  was  53  years  (range:  18  to  83).  The  majority  of  all  patients  were  from  Western  and 
Eastern Europe (80%). 
Overall, the two treatment groups in the treatment subpopulation were similar with respect to baseline 
disease characteristics including standardised lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD, and prednisone-
equivalent  corticosteroid  dose.  The  median  prednisone-equivalent  corticosteroid  dose  taken  by  all 
patients  at  baseline  was  10.0  mg/day.  In  the  treatment  subpopulation,  less  than  half  of  the  patients 
were  osteoporotic  or  osteopenic  (femoral  neck  T-score  <  -1.5).  There  was  a  lower  percentage  of 
patients in the zoledronic acid group with a femoral neck T-score > -1.5 compared to the risedronate 
group  (52.9%  vs.  59.3%,  respectively)  but  the  difference  between  treatment  groups  was  not 
statistically significant. 
Menopausal  status  was  comparable  between  treatment  groups  for  female  patients  in  the  treatment 
subpopulation.  Most  female  patients  were  postmenopausal  (63.9%),  80%  of  whom  were 
postmenopausal for more than 5 years. The median number of years since menopause was 13. 
Page 6 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic  characteristics  of  patients  in  the  “prevention”  subpopulation  were  comparable  for  the 
two  treatment  groups.  The  majority  of  patients  were  Caucasian  (95.1%)  and  female  (69.4%).  The 
mean weight of all patients was 72.7 kg. The median age was 58 years (range: 19 to 84). The majority 
of all patients were from Western and Eastern Europe (79.2%). 
Overall,  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  prevention  subpopulation  were  similar  with  respect  to 
baseline disease characteristics including standardised lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD, femoral 
neck  T-score  categories,  and  prednisone-equivalent  corticosteroid  dose.  There  were  furthermore  no 
significant  differences  between  male  and  female  standardized  femoral  neck  BMD  or  femoral  neck  
T-score in study 02306. 
Menopausal  status  was  comparable  between  treatment  groups  for  female  patients  in  the  prevention 
subpopulation.  Most  female  patients  were  postmenopausal  (69.0%),  84.1%  of  whom  were 
postmenopausal  had  been  in  the  state  for  more  than  5  years.  The  median  number  of  years  since 
menopause was 15. 
The  median  prednisone-equivalent  corticosteroid  dose  taken  by  all  patients  at  baseline  was 
10.0 mg/day.  In  the  prevention  subpopulation,  less  than  half  of  the  patients  were  osteoporotic  or 
osteopenic (femoral neck T-score < -1.5). There was a lower percentage of patients in the zoledronic 
acid group with a femoral neck T-score > -1.5 compared with the risedronate group (60.4% vs. 66.7%, 
respectively) but the difference between treatment groups was not statistically significant. 
In the overall treatment subpopulation 30/545 (5.5%) patients permanently stopped steroid therapy and 
30/288 (10.4%) in the prevention subpopulation. Within the treatment subpopulations 6.3% vs. 4.8% 
for  the  zoledronic  acid  and  risedronate  groups  stopped  corticosteroid  treatment,  while  in  the 
prevention subpopulation the percentage was 10.4% vs. 10.4% for the zoledronic acid and risedronate 
groups respectively.  
Participant flow 
In  the  treatment  subpopulation,  major  protocol  violations  excluding  a  patient  from  the  per  protocol 
population were 13.6 % for the zoledronic acid group and 15.8 % for the risedronate group. A more 
than 1 % difference between treatment groups was seen for several major protocol deviations and in 
all  cases  the  incidence  was  lower  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group.  The  patient  dispositions  in  this 
subpopulation are shown in table 2 below. 
Table 2. Patient disposition in Treatment subpopulation, intent-to-treat (ITT) population. 
Disposition/reason 
Zoledronic acid  
Risedronate  
Completed  
Discontinued  
Adverse Event (s)  
Protocol deviation  
Subject withdrew consent  
Lost to follow-up  
Death  
Not stated  
(N=272)  
n (%)  
256 (94.1)  
16 ( 5.9)  
3 ( 1.1)  
0 ( 0.0)  
6 ( 2.2)  
3 ( 1.1)  
3 ( 1.1)  
1 ( 0.4)  
(N=273)  
n (%)  
255 (93.4)  
18 ( 6.6)  
3 ( 1.1)  
1 ( 0.4)  
5 ( 1.8)  
2 ( 0.7)  
3 ( 1.1)  
4 ( 1.5)  
Total  
(N=545)  
n (%)  
511 (93.8) 
34 ( 6.2) 
6 ( 1.1) 
1 ( 0.2) 
11 ( 2.0) 
5 ( 0.9) 
6 ( 1.1) 
5 ( 0.9)  
In the prevention subpopulation, major protocol violations excluding a patient from the per protocol 
population were 22.2 % for the zoledronic acid group and 19.4 % for the risedronate group. A more 
than 1 % difference between treatment groups was seen for several major protocol deviations and in 
all  cases  the  incidence  was  higher  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group.  The  patient  dispositions  in  this 
subpopulation are shown in table 3 below. 
Page 7 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.  Patient disposition in Prevention subpopulation, ITT population. 
Disposition/reason 
Zoledronic acid  
Risedronate  
(N=144)  
n (%)  
129 (89.6)  
15 (10.4)  
6 ( 4.2)  
5 ( 3.5)  
3 ( 2.1)  
1 ( 0.7)  
0 ( 0.0)  
(N=144)  
n (%)  
131 (91.0)  
13 ( 9.0)  
3 ( 2.1)  
5 ( 3.5)  
4 ( 2.8)  
0 ( 0.0)  
1 ( 0.7)  
Completed  
Discontinued  
Adverse event (s)  
Subject withdrew consent  
Lost to follow-up  
Death  
Not stated  
Comorbidities 
Total  
(N=288)  
n (%)  
260 (90.3) 
28 ( 9.7) 
9 ( 3.1) 
10 ( 3.5) 
7 ( 2.4) 
1 ( 0.3) 
1 ( 0.3)  
risedronate),  osteoarthritis 
The most commonly reported active medical conditions in the treatment subpopulation (≥ 10.0% of all 
patients)  were  the  following:  hypertension  (33.5%  zoledronic  acid;  41.0%  risedronate),  rheumatoid 
arthritis (43.8% zoledronic acid; 41.8% risedronate), systemic lupus erythematosus (15.1% zoledronic 
acid;  16.1% 
risedronate)  and 
hypercholesterolemia  (12.1%  zoledronic  acid;  8.1%  risedronate).  More  risedronate-treated  than 
zoledronic acid-treated patients in this group had active hypertension at baseline, 34.2 % versus 43.2 
%.  
The 3 most commonly-reported medical conditions which may have led to patients taking long-term 
corticosteroid treatment were rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and asthma. 
(11.4%  zoledronic  acid;  16.5% 
The mean prednisone-equivalent dose at baseline of patients was 12.6 mg/day (median 10.0 mg/day). 
Mean lumbar spine T-score was -1.37. 
In  this  subgroup,  the  mean  prednisone-equivalent  dose  at  baseline  of  all  patients  was  17.6  mg/day 
(median 10.0 mg/day), and the mean lumbar spine T-score was - 0.93. 
The most commonly reported active medical conditions in the prevention subpopulation (≥ 10.0% of 
all  patients)  were:  hypertension  (35.4%  zoledronic  acid  vs.  43.1%  risedronate),  rheumatoid  arthritis 
(38.9% zoledronic acid; 36.8% risedronate), polymyalgia rheumatica (20.1% zoledronic acid; 20.1% 
risedronate)  and  osteoarthritis  (14.6%  zoledronic  acid;  12.5%  risedronate).  The  3  most  commonly 
reported medical conditions which may have led to patients taking long-term corticosteroid treatment 
were rheumatoid arthritis, polymyalgia rheumatica and systemic lupus erythematosus. 
Concomitant medication 
Use of the following medications was prohibited throughout the duration of the trial: any treatment for 
osteoporosis (bisphosphonates  other  than  study  drug,  PTH,    Hormone  Replacement  Therapy  (HRT), 
SERMs,  sodium  fluoride,  strontium,  calcitriol,  calcitonin,  tamoxifen,  tibolone,  ipraflavone,  DHEA, 
medroxyprogesterone), anabolic steroids. For HRT, low-dose vaginal estrogen such as 17-β estradiol ≤ 
0.2 mg/day or estropitate ≤ 1.5 mg/day was permitted. 
Overall,  the  three  most  commonly  used  concomitant  medications  other  than  calcium  or  vitamin  D 
supplementation  were  prednisone,  methylprednisolone,  and  methotrexate,  all  of  which  were  used 
comparably in the two treatment groups. 
Concomitant medication in the treatment subpopulation 
General medications 
Overall,  the  distribution  of  concomitant  medication  use  (which  may  have  been  started  prior  to  first 
study  drug  administration  or  at  anytime  during  the  conduct  of  the  study)  in  the  treatment 
Page 8 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subpopulation was similar between the treatment groups. The three most commonly used concomitant 
medications other than calcium or vitamin D supplementation were prednisone, methylprednisolone, 
and methotrexate, all of which were used comparably in the two treatment groups. 
Medications for osteoporosis 
Data on the use of osteoporosis medications prior to the first infusion for the treatment subpopulation. 
showed that the two treatment groups were evenly matched with respect to their use in (5.5% for both 
treatment  groups).  Few  patients  took  osteoporosis  medications  concomitantly  (3  patients  or  1.1% 
zoledronic acid vs. 2 patients or 0.7% risedronate).  
NSAIDS or ACE inhibitors 
Since  the  monitoring  of  renal  function  is  important  in  understanding  the  potential  effect  an  annual 
5 mg dose of zoledronic acid may or may not have, the use of commonly used drugs known to affect 
renal  function,  e.g.,  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  medications  (NSAIDs),  angiotensin  converting 
enzyme inhibitors (ACE), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) inhibitors, were reviewed. 
Patients in the two treatment groups used these compound classes similarly, including the drugs within 
each  class.  The  most  commonly  used  NSAIDs  (i.e.,  ≥  5%  of  patients)  were  acetylsalicylic  acid, 
ibuprofen, and diclofenac. 
The  percentages  of  patients  in  the  treatment  subpopulation  who  took  both  an  NSAID  and  an  ACE-
inhibitor were 14.3% for zoledronic acid and 16.1% for risedronate.  
Concomitant medication in the prevention subpopulation 
General medications 
Overall,  the  distribution  of  concomitant  medication  use  (which  may  have  been  started  prior  to  first 
study  drug  administration  or  at  anytime  during  the  conduct  of  the  study)  in  the  prevention 
subpopulation was similar between the treatment groups The three most commonly used concomitant 
medications other than calcium or vitamin D supplementation were prednisone, methylprednisolone, 
and methotrexate, all of which were used comparably in the two treatment groups. 
Medications for osteoporosis 
Few patients had a prior use of osteoporosis medications (2 patients or 1.4% for zoledronic acid vs. 
1 patient  or  0.7%  for  risedronate),  and  few  patients  took  osteoporosis  medications  concomitantly 
(3 patients or 2.1% zoledronic acid vs. 1 patients or 0.4% risedronate).  
NSAIDS or ACE inhibitors 
Patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  took  NSAIDs  more  frequently  than  patients  in  the  risedronate 
group  (42.4%  vs.  36.1%,  respectively).  The  most  commonly  used  NSAIDs  (i.e.,  more  than  5  %  of 
patients)  were  acetylsalicylic  acid,  ibuprofen,  and  diclofenac.  ACE  inhibitors  and  ARBs  were  taken 
less  frequently  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  than  in  the  risedronate  group  (25.7%  vs.  36.1%, 
respectively).  The  percentage  of  patients  in  the  prevention  subpopulation  who  took  both  an  NSAID 
and an ACE-inhibitor was 17.4% for both treatment groups 
Baseline fracture risk  
The  following  baseline  fracture  risk  factors  were  analysed:  history  of  hyperthyroidism,  height  and 
weight, history of falls in past 12 months, sites of most recent fractures and mother with hip fracture 
after age of 50. All these factors were comparable between treatment groups, in the treatment as well 
as in the prevention subpopulation. 
Page 9 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary efficacy results 
For  the  primary  efficacy  data,  the  results  of  the  analysis  in  the  PP  population  were  consistent  with 
those in the MITT population in both study subpopulations. 
Treatment subpopulation 
Both  treatment  groups  increased  lumbar  spine  BMD  at  month  12  compared  to  baseline  and  the 
criterion for non-inferiority was met as the lower bound of the two-sided 95 % confidence interval for 
the difference of  % change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at month 12 was greater than – 0.70 
which  was  the  pre-set  non-inferiority  requirement.  As  non-inferiority  for  zoledronic  acid  was 
demonstrated,  superiority  was  tested  and  was  demonstrated  by  showing  that  the  lower  bound  of  the 
confidence interval was > 0 and that the p-value for the comparison between the two treatment groups 
was lower than 0.05. 
Subgroup-by-treatment  interactions  were  tested  for  region,  gender,  menopausal  status,  mean 
prednisone-equivalent dose and age category for the % change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD in 
the treatment subpopulation at month 12. The only treatment-by-factor interaction which was shown to 
be statistically significant was age (p-value = 0.0307). 
Prevention subpopulation 
Both treatment groups increased lumbar spine BMD at month 12 compared to baseline: the LS mean 
increase in lumbar spine BMD was 2.37 % in the zoledronic acid group compared to 0.31 % in the 
risedronate group. The criterion for non-inferiority was met as the lower bound of the two-sided 95% 
confidence interval for the difference of  % change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD at month 12 
was  > -1.12 %  which was the non-inferiority limit set at the start of the study. As non-inferiority was 
demonstrated, superiority of zoledronic acid relative to risedronate was tested and was demonstrated 
as the lower bound of the confidence interval was > 0 and that the p-value for the comparison between 
the two treatment groups was < 0.05. 
Subgroup-by-treatment  interactions  were  tested  for  region,  gender,  menopausal  status,  mean 
prednisone-equivalent dose and age category for the % change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD in 
the  prevention  subpopulation  at  month  12.  There  were  no  significant  such  treatment-by-factor 
interactions.  
Disease factors (menopausal status, femoral neck T-score, prednisone dose during the study) 
The  only  subgroup-by-treatment  interaction  which  was  shown  to  be  statistically  significant  for  the 
primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  baseline  femoral  neck  T-score  in  the  prevention  sub-population  
(p-value  =  0.0707).  There  was  a  greater  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  with  increased  
T-score  except  for  patients  with  a  baseline  femoral  neck  T-score  ≤-2.5  where  the  zoledronic  acid 
group  (n=12)  experienced  an  unusually  large  mean  increase  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  which  was  more 
2% greater than the average increase observed in any other zoledronic acid subgroups. There was no 
other evidence of any significant subgroup-by-treatment interactions (all interaction p-values >0.10). 
The  mean  treatment  difference  was  comparable  in  both  postmenopausal  women  and  premenopausal 
women, although statistical significance was only achieved in postmenopausal women due to a larger 
available sample for the comparison. The treatment differences in both subgroups were consistent with 
the results from the overall treatment subpopulation. 
Secondary efficacy variables  
Treatment subpopulation 
For the secondary efficacy results, a 13-step closed testing procedure was used to control the type I 
error rate.  Testing for statistical significance was performed in each subpopulation and continued as 
Page 10 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long  as  each  test  showed  statistical  significance  at  the  0.05  level.  In  the  treatment  subpopulation, 
requirements for the success of the first 6 endpoints were met, but not for the 7th, and it is at this point 
that the closed testing procedure stopped. 
Bone resorption markers 
In the treatment population, the reduction of bone resorption marker serum beta-CTx was significantly 
higher  in  the  group  that  received  zoledronic  acid,  with  a  marked  drop  after  the  first  injection, 
compared  to  the  risedronate  group  which  showed  a  lower  reduction  of  beta-CTx  levels  over  time 
(figure 1). A similar pattern could be observed for the prevention subpopulation (figure 2) 
Figure  1.  Relative  mean  change  from  baseline  of  serum  beta-CTx  (ng/ml)  over  time,  Serum  bone 
marker population in the treatment subpopulation (at day 10: Secondary efficacy endpoint 2). 
Figure  2.  Mean  change  from  baseline  of  serum  beta-CTx  (ng/ml)  over  time,  Serum  bone  marker 
population in the prevention subpopulation (Relative % change at day 10: Secondary efficacy endpoint 
2; at month 3: secondary efficacy endpoint 3). 
Bone formation markers 
The level of amino-terminal propeptide of type 1 procollagen (P1NP), which is produced during the 
build-up of collagen 1 in osteogenesis and reflects osteoblast activity, dropped sharply after initiation 
of therapy for both substances in the treatment subpopulation. However, the initial reduction of P1NP 
after injection in the group that received zoledronic acid was significantly higher. The values started 
rising again after 3 (zoledronic acid), respective 6 months (risedronate) after injection (see figure 3). 
Page 11 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure    3  Mean  values  of  serum  P1NP  (ng/ml)  over  time,  Serum  bone  marker  population  in  the 
treatment  subpopulation  (Relative  change  from  baseline  at  day  10:  Secondary  efficacy  endpoint  4; 
relative change from baseline at month 3: Secondary endpoint 5). 
A similar pattern, however with a slightly more pronounced initial drop of P1NP concentrations in the 
risedronate group could be observed for the prevention subpopulation (figure 4) 
Figure 4. Mean values of serum P1NP (ng/ml) over time, Serum marker population in the prevention 
subpopulation (Relative % change at day 10: Secondary endpoint 4). 
Additional secondary endpoints 
The  following  additional  secondary  endpoints  were  analysed  in  this  study  without  inclusion  in  the 
closed testing procedure: 
• 
Percent change in trochanter, total hip and distal radius BMD at month 6 and month 12 relative 
to baseline 
Relative change from baseline in serum Urine N- telopeptides (u-NTx) and serum bone specific 
alkaline phosphatase (BSAP) at day 10 and months 3, 6 and 12 
Change in height at months 6 and 12 relative to baseline 
• 
• 
Page 12 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  increases  in  BMD  were  significantly  greater  in  the  zoledronic  acid-treated  group  at  all  sites 
including  the  femoral  neck,  total  hip,  trochanter  and  distal  radius  at  12 months  compared  to 
risedronate (all p < 0.03). 
Both subpopulations combined 
A  between-treatment  comparison  of  the  change  from  baseline  in  stadiometer  height  showed  no 
significant differences between the treatment groups at month 6 or month 12 in either subpopulation. 
Fractures 
Fracture rate was also a secondary endpoint. Over 12 months, new morphometric vertebral fractures 
occurred in 5/379 (1.3%) of zoledronic acid-treated patients compared to 3/381 (0.8%) of risedronate-
treated patients. The relative risk was 1.68 with an odds ratio of 1.60 (95% CI: 0.38, 6.79) (p=0.5156). 
Over  12  months,  8/416  (1.9%)  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  and  7/417  (1.7%)  risedronate  treated 
patients  had  at  least  one  clinical  fracture.  The  1-year  event  rates  based  on  Kaplan-Meier  estimates 
were  3.31%  and  2.70%  for  the  zoledronic  acid-  and  risedronate  groups,  respectively.  The  estimated 
hazard ratio was 1.14 (95% CI: 0.41, 3.16, p=0.8055). 
Of the male  subjects participating in the study who had both an evaluable baseline and postbaseline  
X-ray,  2/114  (1.75%)  of  zoledronic  acid-treated  subjects  and  1/117  (0.85%)  of  risedronate-treated 
subjects experienced a new morphometric vertebral fracture (p=0.5447).  
Of the female subjects participating in the study who had both an evaluable baseline and postbaseline 
X-ray,  3/265  (1.13%)  of  zoledronic  acid-treated  subjects  and  2/264  (0.76%)  of  risedronate-treated 
subjects experienced a new morphometric vertebral fracture (p=0.7417).  
Over  12  months,  8/416  (1.9%)  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  and  7/417  (1.7%)  risedronate-treated 
patients had at least one clinical fracture over the course of 12 months. Of the male subjects, 2/131 and 
1/134  of  zoledronic  acid-  and  risedronate-treated  subjects  experienced  a  clinical  fracture  during  the 
study.  Of  the  female  subjects,  6/285  and  6/283  of  zoledronic  acid  and  risedronate-treated  subjects 
experienced a clinical fracture during the study.  
Of the 180 pre-menopausal women included in the analysis of morphometric vertebral fractures, and 
out  of  195  premenopausal  women  included  in  the  ITT  population  for  the  evaluation  of  clinical 
fractures none of the patients experienced a new morphometric vertebral fracture during the 12-month 
double-blind period.  
Bone biopsies 
Bone  biopsies  were  obtained  from  23  patients,  21  from  the  treatment  and  2  from  the  prevention 
subgroup.  These  patients  were  recruited  from  7  centres  in  5  European  countries  and  one  centre  in 
Australia. Of these 23 biopsy cores, 16 (7 in the zoledronic acid and 9 in the risedronate group) were 
considered as adequate: they were comprised of two cortices and the trabecular network. Qualitative 
histopathological  analyses  of  all  evaluable  biopsies  showed  that  newly  formed  bone  was  of  normal 
quality in terms of normal lamellar structure. There was no evidence of pathological findings. A total 
of 20 biopsies contained double tetracycline label in either trabecular or cortical bone.  
The  presence  of  tetracycline  labelling  in  all  technically  adequate  bone  biopsies  indicates  ongoing 
remodelling  and  absence  of  excessive  reduction  of  bone  turnover.  Normal  mineralisation  of  newly 
formed  bone  was  seen,  but  no  marrow  fibrosis,  woven  bone  or  osteomalacia  after  12  months  of 
treatment. The bone microarchitecture in the two treatment groups was similar. 
Page 13 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Morphometric vertebral fractures 
Over 12 months, new morphometric vertebral fractures occurred in 5/379 (1.3%) of zoledronic acid-
treated  patients  compared  to  3/381  (0.8%)  of  risedronate-treated  patients.  The  relative  risk  was  1.68 
with an odds ratio of 1.60 (95% CI: 0.38, 6.79) (p=0.5156). 
Health-related QoL questionnaire (EQ-5D) 
The  objective  was  to  measure  change  in  health  status  over  1  year,  using  the  EQ-5D  at  the  baseline 
visit, after 3 months, after 6 months and at the last visit after 1 year. For the Treatment subpopulation,  
there  were  no  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  at  any  time  point.  For  the 
prevention  subpopulation, there  were  no  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  at  any 
time point either. 
Resource utilisation 
•  Treatment  subpopulation:  Five  patients  (1.8%)  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  no  patient  in  the 
risedronate group were hospitalised during the study. None of the hospitalisations involved time spent 
in the Intensive Care Unit. 
•  Prevention  subpopulation:  No  patient  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  one  patient  (0.7%)  in  the 
risedronate group was hospitalised during the study. 
Patient preference questionnaire 
At the end of the study, patients were asked to answer four questions to determine their preference for 
the  different  treatment  modalities.  A  once-a-year  infusion  was  preferred  overall  by  83.8%  of  all 
patients. A once daily pill was preferred by 10.1% of all patients. The belief that both treatments were 
equal was held by 6.1% of the patients overall. 
Subgroup analyses 
In the subgroup analysis, efficacy was seen for zoledronic acid for the primary efficacy variable in the 
premenopausal women in the study (see Table 5 ) 
Table  5.  Between-treatment  comparison  of  %  change  from  baseline  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  with 
treatment-by-menopausal  status  interaction  for  the  treatment  sub-population  by  visit  MITT  lumbar 
spine population. 
DISCUSSION ON CLINICAL EFFICACY 
Overall,  the  risk  of  fracture  has  been  demonstrated  to  increase  at  a  relatively  low  dose  of 
glucocorticosteroid therapy, below 7.5 mg daily, and already a short time after start of this therapy. In 
patients  on  glucocorticoids,  fractures  tend  to  occur  at  a  higher  BMD  than  in  patients  with 
postmenopausal  osteoporosis  and  the  population  on  glucocorticoids  is  also  younger  than  the 
Page 14 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population with postmenopausal osteoporosis. With this background, the CHMP agreed that fracture 
prevention is desirable in this population.  
Trial design 
The CHMP considered that the study design and endpoints for study 2306 are in accordance with the 
GREES recommendations for the registration of agents to be used in the prevention and treatment of 
glucocorticoids-induced osteoporosis.  
The CHMP further agreed that in essence, the design of the trial 2306 was approved by the CHMP in a 
scientific advice in 2004. Two points however warrant comments. 
1. 
2. 
The  advice  expressed  a  preference  for  a  placebo-controlled  trial  although  an  active-controlled 
design  was  also  considered  acceptable.  The  lack  of  placebo  has  therefore  to  be  accepted, 
although especially for fracture data, it would have been of value to have placebo comparison. 
As it turned out, the rate of fractures was very low in the study and in retrospect it seems that a 
12-month study with a placebo control would not have been unethical. The CHMP highlighted 
in  this  respect  that  placebo-controlled  studies  have  been  performed  with  risedronate  for  the 
prevention and treatment of GIO (Cohen et al.  III and Reid et al. respectively). In these studies, 
the placebo response was somewhat inconsistent, a decrease in BMD of –2.8% was observed in 
the  prevention  trial  while  BMD  remained  stable  in  the  treatment  trial.  A  possible  explanation 
could be the natural course of GIO, i.e. bone loss is most prominent at start of glucocorticoid 
therapy and less with continued treatment. 
The advice recommended separate trials for the separate indications, prevention vs. treatment of 
GIO.  The  MAH  chose  to  rather  perform  a  single  trial,  stratifying  patients  into  2  sub-
populations; the prevention sub-population and the treatment sub-population. Since then, there 
has  been  a  change  in  the  view  of  the  management  of  osteoporosis  as  regards  differentiating 
between  prevention  and  treatment  of  osteoporosis  (see  CHMP  Guideline  on  clinical  trials  in 
primary osteoporosis). 
The management of osteoporosis has also changed with the availability of the WHO Risk Assessment 
Tool  (FRAX).  Accordingly,  an  indication  including  both  prevention  and  treatment  of  GIO  was 
proposed as outlined in the section “Indication” below.  
Indication  
The management of osteoporosis has also changed with the availability of the FRAX Tool, which has 
been developed to aid decision making in osteoporosis, i.e. when to initiate treatment for osteoporosis 
based  on  the  10-year  probability  of  a  fracture.  Thus,  it  is  unlikely  that  nowadays  the  CHMP  would 
request  separate  trials  for  these  separate  indications  of  treatment  and  prevention  of  osteoporosis, 
respectively, and stratification for the duration of corticosteroid use pre-study is therefore acceptable. 
Furthermore, and in line with the indication for post-menopausal osteoporosis, an indication for both 
prevention and treatment of GIO would not be justified.  
Due to the above reasons the wording of the indication was therefore changed to reflect that Aclasta is 
indicated in the treatment of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women and in men at increased risk of 
fracture instead of using treatment and / or prevention claims. 
While it is agreed that bone loss associated with high-dose glucocorticosteroid treatment is typically 
most prominent during first 3-6 months of treatment, anti-osteoporotic treatment is not indicated for 
short-term corticosteroid use (< 3 months) since bone loss is potentially reversible upon cessation of 
therapy.  Considering  that  zoledronic  acid  is  effective  for  one  year,  it  is  important  that  only  patients 
intended  for  long-term  treatment  with  corticosteroids  receive  Aclasta.  This  is  also  reflected  in  the 
pivotal  Study  2306  where  patients  continued  to  receive  corticosteroids  throughout  the  52  weeks  of 
study duration, although patients had been stratified with respect to duration of corticosteroid use prior 
to  randomisation.  The  median  baseline  corticosteroid  dose  was  10  mg  of  prednisone  or  equivalent 
baseline.  
Page 15 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As treatment with corticosteroids should be as short as possible, the clinical relevance of treatment of 
patients at risk of fracture with bisphosphonates for 1 year was discussed during the procedure. The 
CHMP considered that corticosteroid treatment for more than one year is however not uncommon in 
clinical  practice  and  therefore  treatment  of  patients  at  risk  of  fracture  for  a  period  of  12  months  is 
warranted. 
Therefore, the indication now reflects use of Aclasta only for patients intended for chronic treatment 
with corticosteroids. The wording of the indication was further modified, in line with the wording of 
recently approved GIO indications for other products.  
Pre-menopausal women 
Although  a  small  sub-set  of  pre-menopausal  women  treated  with  high-dose  corticosteroids  may 
experience  fractures,  in  general  the  absolute  risk  is  very  low.  Furthermore,  the  relationship  between 
BMD  and  fracture  risk  in  pre-menopausal  women  has  not  been  established.  The  analyses  and 
calculations  for  the  sub-population  of  pre-menopausal  women  in  Study  2306  also  support  this.  At 
baseline this sub-population had a femoral neck T-score of –0,7, i.e. within the normal range of BMD 
according to the WHO classification. Bone density at the lumbar spine is not reported by the MAH. 
Fracture  risk,  using  the  FRAX  tool,  was  also  low  and  below  the  threshold  for  intervention  with 
bisphosphonates  according  to  WHO  treatment  Guidelines.  The  WHO  FRAX  tool  applies  only  to 
patients > 40 years of age and therefore calculations for the younger patients in Study 2306 using the 
FRAX may have overestimated the risk. 
The CHMP noted in this respect that high disease activity and a history of previous fracture resulted in 
a higher risk and in one country exceeded the threshold for intervention. The evidence that treatment 
with  Aclasta  prevents  fractures  in  the  sub-population  of  pre-menopausal  females  with  multiple  risk 
factors  is  lacking.  Overall,  fracture  rates  in  this  active  controlled  study  were  very  low,  and  for  this 
reason have not been presented for the different sub-groups. No fractures occurred in the group of pre-
menopausal  females,  and  it  should  be  noted  that  risedronate  is  not  indicated  for  GIO  in  pre-
menopausal females.  
Male Population 
Aclasta  has  received  approval  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  men  at  increased  risk  of  fracture 
(see SPC) based on data from studies L2310 and M2308. Therefore, an effect in reducing fractures in 
men with GIO should be expected based on the concept of double-bridging which is described by the 
GREES group (Compston, et al 2008). 
Dose used in the study 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  arguments  for  using  the  same  dose  for  glucocorticoid  induced 
osteoporosis as the dose approved for postmenopausal osteoporosis can be accepted. Considering the 
positive benefit/risk demonstrated for this dose in the PMO and elderly population, the dose was found 
to be acceptable. The CHMP questioned whether the dose could be unnecessarily high in the younger 
GIO population. It was noted that there are no clinical data on the use of a lower dose of zoledronic 
acid in a glucocorticoid treated population. Zoledronic acid in the selected dose of 5mg once yearly 
has  been  effective  in  glucocorticoid  induced  osteoporosis  as  well  as  in  osteoporosis  in  males  and  in 
postmenopausal women. From the dose finding study 0041(assessed in the ARs for Aclasta variations 
II/10 and II/16), it seems that a lower dose of the drug could also be effective. However, no other dose 
of  zoledronic  acid  than  5  mg  yearly  has  been  explored  for  the  non-malignant  indications.  As  the 
adverse effects of this dose have been acceptable in all studied populations, the dose of 5 mg yearly 
was considered acceptable also for the GIO indication. 
Page 16 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient Population 
The  relatively  young  age  of  the  patients,  the  large  proportion  of  pre-menopausal  females  and  the 
under-representation of patients with osteoporosis at baseline (less than 10%) indicates that the patient 
population,  apart  from  receiving  high-dose  corticosteroids,  may  have  been  at  a  low  risk  of  fracture. 
The  MAH  therefore  discussed  the  fracture  risk  of  the  study-population  with  reference  to  the  FRAX 
tool as outlined in section “fractures” below. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  concomitant/underlying  diseases  observed  and  medications  reflect  a 
study population in a study for GIO. The majority of patients (about 40%) had rheumatoid arthritis as 
underlying disease and probable cause for glucocorticoid treatment. In the prevention group, 20% had 
polymyalgia rheumatica compared with only 5% of patients in the treatment group. Baseline morbidity 
was considerable, and comparable between groups. A majority of patients were Caucasian. About one 
third of the female patients included in the study were premenopausal.  
There  were  no  other  significant  differences  with  respect  to  demographic  results  or  disease 
characteristics  between  the  two  sub-populations,  apart  from  the  duration  of  treatment  with 
corticosteroids.  Baseline  corticosteroid  dose  was  10  mg,  and  thus  it  can  be  concluded  that  patients 
included were patients at risk for fracture. 
Information  as  regards  mean  duration  of  corticosteroid  treatment  pre-randomisation  in  the  treatment 
sub-population  was  provided.  The  median  values  for  treatment  duration  pre-randomisation  indicate 
that  most  patients  had  received  glucocorticoids  for  less  than  1  year  (less  than  6  months  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  group).  The  majority  of  the  patients  continued  receiving  corticosteroids  during  the 
study. 
During the study, corticosteroids were tapered but the majority, however, continued to receive doses 
of ≥ 7.5 mg. At the end of study 23% in the prevention sub-population and 14% in the treatment sub-
population received doses below 7.5 mg. 
The  study  included  both  males  (30%)  and  females  (70%)  and  the  two-thirds  of  females  were  post-
menopausal.  The  proportion  of  pre-menopausal  females,  however,  has  to  be  regarded  as  relatively 
large, considering that pre-menopausal females have usually been under-represented in studies on GIO 
(n=133 [36%] and n=62 [31%] in the treatment and prevention sub-populations, respectively).  
Compared with previous studies that have been assessed in type II variations, the study population in 
Study 2306 was considerably younger (mean age was 73 in the post-menopausal Study 2301 and 74.5 
years in the hip fracture prevention Study 2310) and less osteoporotic. Actually, less than 10% were 
osteoporotic at baseline in Study 2306. 
Furthermore,  comparing  the  two  sub-populations,  the  patients  in  the  treatment  sub-population  were 
somewhat younger (mean age 53 vs. 58 years) but the proportion of patients that were osteopenic or 
osteoporotic  was  higher  (44%  vs.  36%)  compared  to  the  prevention  sub-population.  This  is  not 
unexpected  as  patients  treated  for  osteoporosis  would  have  been  expected  to  be  more  osteopenic  / 
osteoporotic  compared  with  a  population  receiving  treatment  for  the  prevention  of  osteoporosis. 
Proportion  of  osteoporotic  patients  was,  however,  similar  or  9.5%  in  both  sub-populations.  This 
overall low proportion of patients with osteoporosis baseline indicates that the patients in general in 
Study 2306 were at a low risk for fractures, as also discussed further below. 
Discontinuation rate was no more than about 10 % in any of the subpopulations which is reasonable. 
More patients in the prevention than in the treatment subpopulation had protocol violations and about 
10 % of patients in the prevention subpopulation were inadequately stratified. 
Rather  few  patients  seem  to  have  had  previous  fractures,  and  the  rate  of  low-trauma  fractures  in 
particular  being  low.  The  MAH  further  presented  that  overall  the  history  of  previous  fracture  at 
baseline  was  similar  across  both  the  treatment  and  prevention  subpopulations.  Of  the  patients 
Page 17 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  35.1%  (101/288)  of  patients  randomised 
randomised to the treatment subpopulation, 35.0% (191/545) (35.0%) had a previous fracture prior to 
the  prevention 
randomisation  compared 
subpopulation.  The  incidence  of  previous  fracture  was  similar  as  well  across  treatment  groups  with 
36.4% and 33.7% of zoledronic acid- and risedronate-treated patients having experienced a previous 
fracture  in  the  treatment  subpopulation  and  33.3%  and  36.8%  of  zoledronic  acid-  and  risedronate-
treated patients having experienced a previous fracture, respectively in the prevention subpopulation. 
The  arm  and  foot  were  generally  the  most  common  location  of  previous  fracture  in  both 
subpopulations. 
into 
The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  low  rate  of  prevalent  vertebral  fractures  at  baseline  (4%  and  3%  in  the 
treatment and prevention population, respectively) confirmed that the patients included were patients 
at a low risk of fracture, which is expected considering that only 10% had osteoporosis at baseline. 
In conclusion, the relatively young age of the patients, the large proportion of pre-menopausal females 
and  the  under-representation  of  patients  with  osteoporosis  (less  than  10%)  indicates  that  the  patient 
population, apart from receiving high-dose corticosteroids, have been at a low risk of fracture.  
Discussion of efficacy results 
In study 2306, an intravenous dose of 5 mg zoledronic acid was convincingly shown to increase the 
lumbar spine BMD from baseline to 12 months significantly compared to daily oral risedronate, in the 
prevention  (on  glucocorticoids  3  months  or  less)  as  well  as  in  the  treatment  (on  glucocorticoids  for 
more than 3 months) subpopulations.  
Primary efficacy variables  
The  CHMP  agreed  that  zoledronic  acid  was  shown  to  be  superior  to  risedronate  for  the  primary 
efficacy  parameter  ”%  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  at  month  12  relative  to  baseline”  in  the 
prevention as well as in the treatment subpopulation.  
In both treatment groups, the percentage increase in BMD at 12 months was higher in the treatment 
sub-population  compared  with  the  prevention  sub-population.  Results  for  the  risedronate  arm  are 
comparable to what has previously been published. Results for zoledronic acid in the treatment sub-
population are comparable to previous results in females with PMO (Study 2301). The reason for less 
pronounced effect in the prevention group was considered to be related to the natural course of GIO, 
i.e. rapid loss of bone density at the start of treatment with corticosteroids may have counterbalanced 
the anti-resorptive effects of bisphosphonates. Consistent results of BMD increase in both populations 
support an indication independent of start of corticosteroid treatment. 
The results for the sub-group analysis confirm the overall results for the primary efficacy endpoint and 
support an indication that is based on pharmacodynamics of zoledronic acid to increase bone mineral 
density. Similar percentage increases in BMD were obtained in both males and females, although in 
the prevention sub-population, BMD actually decreased in risedronate treated males.  
Comparing  pre-menopausal  females  with  post-menopausal  females,  somewhat  larger  increases  were 
shown for both treatments in the post-menopausal females.  
Secondary efficacy variables 
Zoledronic acid showed also superiority to the comparator for several secondary efficacy parameters, 
decreasing bone markers and increasing BMD also at other sites than the lumbar spine. The study was 
of 12 months duration and was not powered to demonstrate a difference in fracture incidence between 
treatment  groups.  Few  patients  had  fractures  in  the  study  and  there  was  no  apparent  difference 
between the treatment groups. 
Overall,  in  the  prevention  study  subpopulation,  the  pattern  of  decline  for  bone  markers  serum  beta-
CTx and serum P1NP were similar to that in the treatment subpopulation. The CHMP however noted 
Page 18 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that in the treatment subpopulation, bone markers serum beta-CTx and serum P1NP were significantly 
more depressed in the zoledronic acid- than in the risedronate group through the study period. 
Concerning  the  additional  secondary  endpoints,  the  CHMP  considered  that  these  analyses  were  not 
adjusted  for  multiplicity,  as  they  were  analysed  in  this  study  without  inclusion  in  the  closed  testing 
procedure. 
The CHMP noted also that bone biopsies, a majority of them from the treatment subpopulation, were 
normal in both treatment groups. 
No difference was found between treatment groups for Quality of Life or for resource utilisation. A 
majority of patients preferred a once a year intravenous infusion regimen to a daily oral regimen.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  secondary  results  support  the  results  for  the  primary  endpoint  with 
demonstration of superiority of zoledronic acid over risedronate with respect to percentage increase in 
BMD already after 6 months. At 12 months, the curves approached each other and this is consistent 
with previous study results where zoledronic acid was compared with oral alendronate, i.e. zoledronic 
acid  results  in  a  more  profound  effect  on  biomarkers  initially  following  infusion  while  daily  oral 
treatment results in a more steady suppression of markers over time. The effects on bone resorption 
markers is most pronounced at day 9-11 while effect on bone formation markers is most pronounced at 
month 3 with zoledronic acid. This is consistent with previous results in PMO.  
As  regards  efficacy,  it  can  therefore  be  concluded  that  the  pivotal  study  met  its  endpoints 
demonstrating non-inferiority, and also superiority, of zoledronic acid compared with oral risedronate 
in increasing BMD at the lumbar spine over 12 months.  
Fractures 
Given the overall low incidence of fracture in both treatment groups, the incidence in male and female 
subjects were low in both treatment groups with no noticeable patterns in the incidence across genders. 
This finding was not unexpected considering that all patients received active treatment. The study was 
not powered to show a difference in fracture rate.  
The  relatively  young  age  of  patients,  relatively  large  proportion  of  pre-menopausal  females  and  the 
fact  that  only  about  10%  were  osteoporotic  at  baseline  may  also  have  influenced  the  fracture  rate. 
There was no difference between the treatment groups, despite superiority of zoledronic acid for the 
primary endpoint of BMD change.  
Fractures  tend  however  to  occur  at  higher  BMD  in  glucocorticosteroid  induced  osteoporosis  (GIO) 
than  in  postmenopausal  osteoporosis.  Regardless  of  the  combination  of  risk  factors  for  fracture,  the 
MAH  found  that  the  most  influential  factors  in  determining  an  individual  patient’s  fracture  risk  are 
decreasing BMD, age and existing rheumatoid arthritis. 
The FRAX tool for assessing the 10-year fracture risk is designed to estimate the risk for individuals. 
The MAH presented an estimation of fracture risk based on the average profile of the treatment and 
the prevention population, respectively. The CHMP considered that the limitations of the FRAX tool 
are acknowledged since this tool has not been validated for the GIO population and considering the 
age range of the study population (18-85 years), which was outside the range for which the FRAX has 
been validated (40-89 years).  
In  summary,  for  the  treatment  population,  the  10-year  probability  of  an  osteoporotic  fracture  was 
between  3.3%  and  10%  for  the  various  countries  and  for  the  prevention  population,  the  risk  ranged 
from  3.5%  to  13%.  Thus,  overall  the  patient  population  had  a  low  risk  of  fracture.  Sub-analyses 
confirmed  that  adding  risk  factors  resulted  in  a  higher10-year  probability of  a  fracture.  For  the  sub-
group  of  patients  with  active  RA,  history  of  fractures  and  BMD  T-score  of  <  -1.5,  the  risk  in  the 
“northern” countries (UK, Sweden and US) exceeded the threshold for intervention according to WHO 
Guidelines.  
Page 19 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, these analyses support that treatment with Aclasta should only be given to patients at 
high risk of fractures, and the currently proposed indication reflects this.  
BMD and fracture risk in the GIO population 
The  1-year  BMD  increase  demonstrated  at  the  lumbar  spine  in  study  2306  (4.1%)  was  somewhat 
higher than that seen in postmenopausal women (3.66%), thus the MAH considered that anti-fracture 
efficacy at the spine in GIO patients in a placebo-controlled trial, would be expected to be of similar 
magnitude to that seen in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis in study 2301 (60% and 70% after 
1  and  3  years,  respectively).  In  the  risedronate  and  alendronate  trials  1-year  lumbar  spine  BMD 
increases  of  4.7  %  and  4.1%,  respectively,  were  reported.  The  relative  risk  reductions  for  spine 
fractures were 89% and 60%, respectively. 
The  MAH  presented  two  studies  with  risedronate,  which  closely  mimic  the  design  of  Study  2306, 
including  both  males  and  females  receiving  corticosteroids  and  with  a  similar  risk  profile.  These 
demonstrated  changes  in  BMD  of  0.6  and  2.9%  for  risedronate  in  a  prevention  and  a  treatment 
population,  respectively.  The  figures  are  in  line  with  the  results  for  risedronate  in  Study  2306.  The 
vertebral  fracture  rate  in  the  prevention  study  was  17.3%  in  the  placebo  group  and  5.7%  in  the 
risedronate  5  mg  group  (a  reduction  of  71%)  and  in  the  treatment  study  it  was  15%  in  the  placebo 
group  and  5%  in  the  risedronate  5  mg  group  (a  reduction  of  70%).  Thus,  it  can  be  expected  that  in 
Study 2306, the risk reduction would have been around 70% for risedronate.  
The CHMP further noted that for the studies in male osteoporosis and GIO presented by the MAH, the 
absolute  number  of  fractures  was  low  due  to  relatively  small  sizes  of  the  studies,  albeit  significant 
results were obtained. 
The translation of demonstrated effects of treatment with zoledronic acid on BMD in terms of overall 
fracture risk reduction was also discussed by the CHMP. The BMD results of the 2306 study can be 
considered  of  similar  magnitude  compared  to  the  results  in  the  2301  pivotal  PMO  trial  (assessed  in 
variation II-10). The event rate reported for vertebral fractures in the SPC for risedronate was 6% in 
the prevention study and 5% in the treatment study, both of which are higher than the clinical fracture 
rate for risedronate observed in Study 2306. 
In  the  PMO  study  2301,  zoledronic  acid  treated  patients  had  a  40%  reduction  in  the  risk  of  hip 
fractures  during  the  36  month  study  period.  Lumbar  spine  BMD  increased  6.82  %  from  baseline  in 
patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid,  compared  to  a  0.06  %  decrease  in  placebo  treated  patients  in 
study 2301. Fracture rates from studies in a PMO population can however not directly be transferred 
to a younger GIO population with other fracture risk factors. In study 2306, factors such as patient age, 
steroid  dose,  duration  of  steroid  therapy  and  the  prevalence  of  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  the 
population  affect  the  fracture  risk  in  the  study  population  and  these  risk  factors  are  very  varying  in 
different subgroups of the study population, making fracture risk calculations difficult. 
Fracture  prevention  has  not  been  shown  in  the  glucocorticoid  treated  population  but  there  are  some 
indications of a fracture prevention effect: Significant improvement in BMD data, and positive trends 
for fracture data for the comparator in several clinical studies with risedronate. Based on BMD data, 
risedronate has been approved in the indication “To maintain or increase bone mass in postmenopausal 
women  undergoing  long-term  (more  than  3  months),  systemic  corticosteroid  treatment  at  doses 
7.5mg/day prednisone or equivalent”. The CHMP therefore considered that risedronate is an adequate 
comparator for clinical studies of osteoporosis in a population of glucocorticoid treated patients - with 
the exception of premenopausal women, as discussed under clinical safety.  
Page 20 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLINICAL SAFETY 
The primary source of safety data is also the active controlled Study 2306. 
Patient exposure 
In the treatment subpopulation in study 2306, 270 patients were exposed to IV zoledronic acid, 267 to 
placebo  infusion.  Oral  study  medication  was  given  to  272  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group 
(placebo)  while  risedronate  was  administered  to  273  patients  in  the  risedronate  group.  In  the 
prevention  subpopulation  in  study  2306,  143  patients  were  exposed  to  IV  Aclasta,  141  to  placebo 
infusion. In this study subpopulation, oral study medication was given to 144 patients in the zoledronic 
acid group (placebo) while risedronate was administered to 144 patients in the risedronate group. 
Targeted  assessment  of  fracture  non-union  and  delayed  union  as  well  as  avascular  necrosis  / 
Osteonecrosis  of  the  Jaw  (ONJ)  was  followed  by  expert  adjudication  Adverse  events  within  the 
following further categories were adjudicated in a blinded manner: hypocalcaemia, arrhythmia SAEs, 
and primary cause of death. 
An overview of the participation and withdrawals in the GIO safety population is shown for each of 
the treatment groups in Table 1-14. 
The CHMP noted that discontinuation rate was low and comparable in both treatment groups. The rate 
of discontinuation due to AEs was slightly higher. 
Potential interactions  
Glucocorticoids 
AEs were analysed by mean prednisone-equivalent dose during study 2306 (lower, middle and upper 
tertiles  (≤  8.14  mg/day,  >  8.14  mg/day  -  10  mg/day  and  >  10  mg/day).  There  was  no  relationship 
between the incidence of AEs and the prednisone dose. Patients in the middle tertile experienced the 
lowest incidence of AEs (zoledronic acid group 70 %; risedronate group 60.1 %) relative to the lower 
tertile  (zoledronic  acid  81.1  %;  risedronate  69.2  %)  and  the  upper  tertile  (zoledronic  acid  83.9  %; 
risedronate 75.8 %).  
Adverse events 
In both subpopulations, post-dose symptoms of pyrexia, myalgia and influenza-like illness were more 
common among zoledronic acid-treated patients. These symptoms occurred typically within the first 
3 days after infusion. AEs in the treatment subpopulation were more common in the zoledronic acid 
group than in the risedronate group (77.6 and 68.1 %, respectively).  
Page 21 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The greatest between-treatment difference in the percentage of patients with AEs was in the general 
disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  primary  system  organ  class  (PSOC)  (29.3%  for  the 
zoledronic acid group and 13.9% for the risedronate group). This difference was mainly driven by the 
AEs pyrexia and influenza-like illness, which had at least a twofold higher incidence in the zoledronic 
acid  group  compared  to  the  risedronate  group.  There  was  a  higher  incidence  of  nervous  system 
disorders  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  (13.5%)  relative  to  the  risedronate  group  (8.6%),  which  was 
mainly driven by a higher incidence of headache in the zoledronic  acid group (5.3%) relative to the 
risedronate  group  (2.4%).  Headache  is  often  one  of  the  AEs  associated  with  post-dose  symptoms 
observed with i.v. and high dose oral bisphosphonates. 
AEs with at least a twofold higher incidence in the zoledronic acid group than in the risedronate group 
were  pyrexia  and  influenza-like  illness,  myalgia  and  vomiting.  Eleven  (4.0  %)  of  patients  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  group  and  5  patients  (1.8  %)  in  the  risedronate  group  had  AEs  of  arrhythmias.  See 
below under Arrhythmia AEs. 
In  the  prevention  subgroup,  77.1  %  of  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  64.6  %  in  the 
risedronate group reported AEs. 33.3 % of zoledronic acid- patients and 15.3 of risedronate patients 
reported  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions.  Pyrexia  and  influenza-like  symptoms 
were at least twice as common in the zoledronic acid group as in the risedronate group. Ten patients 
(6.9 %) in the zoledronic acid group and 6 (4.2 %) in the risedronate group had arrhythmia AEs. Four 
cases  of  atrial  flutter  or  fibrillation  were  reported  (3  of  them  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group),  none  of 
them serious. Data on specific AEs in study 2306 are also given in section IV of the Risk Management 
Plan (Safety Specification). 
The CHMP pointed out that the higher rates of pyrexia, myalgia and influenza-like illness reflect the 
post-dose  symptoms  associated  with  zoledronic  acid.  Gastrointestinal  symptoms,  such  as  nausea, 
abdominal  pain  and  dyspepsia  were  more  frequent  with  zoledronic  acid  compared  with  oral 
risedronate. 
In  general,  safety  data  for  this  study  did  not  differ  from  studies  2301  and  2310.  As  no  general 
recommendation was given to patients in study 2306 to take prophylactic medication against post-dose 
influenza-like symptoms, there was a high frequency of such symptoms. 
Like in the big postmenopausal osteoporosis study 2301- but in contrast to the smaller study 2310 in 
secondary fracture prophylaxis after hip fracture - more cases of arrhythmia events were reported in 
zoledronic-acid  treated  patients.  The  arrhythmia  events  were  in  general  reported  long  time  after  the 
zoledronic acid infusion. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Six  patients  died  in  the  treatment  subpopulation,  3  zoledronic  acid-  and  3-risedronate-treated. 
19 zoledronic acid-treated (7.0 %) and 15 risedronate-treated patients (5.5 %) discontinued the study 
due to AEs. 
Only one patient died in the prevention subpopulation, a zoledronic acid-treated patient. 14 zoledronic 
acid-treated  (9.7  %)  and  7  risedronate-treated  patients  (4.9  %)  discontinued  the  study  due  to  AEs. 
Three cardiac-related deaths were confirmed by adjudication, all in the zoledronic acid group: 2 were 
due to myocardial infarction and one was due to pulmonary artery bypass procedure. 2/3 had a history 
of  cardiac  disease.  In  all  three  cases,  the  deaths  occurred  more  than  5  months  after  zoledronic  acid 
infusion. 
In  total  seven  patients  died,  four  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group,  and  three  patients  in  the  risedronate 
group. For all patients, the causes of death were not suspected by the investigator to be related to study 
medication. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  overall  death  rate  was  low  with  no  differences  between  the  treatment 
groups. All cardiac events occurred in the zoledronic acid group, but due to the low number of deaths, 
Page 22 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no  conclusion  can  be  drawn  with  respect  to  possible  relationship  to  study  drug.  There  were  no 
cerebrovascular deaths. 
Laboratory findings 
No  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  were  seen  for  routine  laboratory  data.  Sixteen 
patients in the zoledronic acid group (3.9%) and 15 patients in the risedronate group (3.6%) had renal 
events  (renal  function  AEs  and/or  pre-determined  laboratory  abnormalities)  that  were  sent  to  the 
adjudication  committee  for  review.  Of  these,  9  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  (2.2%)  and 
7 patients in the risedronate group (1.7%) had confirmed clinically significant renal events. 
Only one patient in each treatment group (0.2 %) had clinical events of hypocalcaemia. Only one of 
these events, in the zoledronic acid group, was adjudicated as a confirmed hypocalcaemia event. This 
patient was asymptomatic.  
The overall incidence rate for increase in serum creatinine from baseline (> 0.5 mg/dl) was higher in 
the zoledronic acid group in Study 2306 (zoledronic acid 9, 2.2%; risedronate 3, 0.7%). In general, for 
other  selected  biochemistry  parameters,  no  clinically  relevant  differences  between  treatment  groups 
were observed. 
Pregnancies 
In spite of female patients of childbearing potential being requested to have a negative pregnancy test 
and to practice contraception during the whole study period, three pregnancies occurred, all of them in 
risedronate-treated  patients.  Two  of  these  women  chose  abortion  while  the  third  woman  delivered  a 
healthy baby. 
Ocular Adverse Events 
Six  patients  in  each  treatment  group  (1.4%)  had  ocular  events  that  were  sent  for  expert  review.  All 
events were adjudicated as confirmed ocular events, and all but one (conjunctivitis which occurred in a 
zoledronic acid-treated patient) were considered to be unlikely to be related to study medication by the 
expert reviewer. 
Hypocalcaemia 
One  patient  in  each  treatment  group  (0.2%)  had  clinical  events  of  hypocalcaemia  that  met  the  pre-
specified criteria and were sent to the adjudication committee for review. Only the one patient in the 
zoledronic acid group was adjudicated to have experienced a confirmed event of hypocalcaemia; no 
symptoms were reported. 
Avascular necrosis(AVN)   
Two patients in the zoledronic acid group (0.5%) and three patients in the risedronate group (0.7%) 
had cases of potential AVN events that were sent to the adjudication committee for review. All but one 
patient had their events adjudicated as indeterminate, as no radiographs were provided. One zoledronic 
acid-treated  patient  was  adjudicated  as  having  a  confirmed  event,  but  in  the  adjudication  committee 
comments it was noted that AVN was suspected prior to study enrolment. 
Maxillofacial events 
Five patients in the zoledronic acid group (1.2%) and four patients in the risedronate group (1.0%) had 
maxillofacial events that were sent to the adjudication committee for review. There were no patients 
who had events that were confirmed by adjudication. 
Page 23 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal adverse events 
The overall incidence rates for each of the three categories of renal laboratory criteria at any time were 
low  and  comparable  for  both  treatment  groups:  increase  in  serum  creatinine  >0.5  mg/dl  (8  patients 
[2.0%]  zoledronic  acid;  6  patients  [1.5%]  risedronate),  creatinine  clearance  <30  ml/min  (4  patients, 
[1.0%] zoledronic acid, 4 patients [1.0%] risedronate patients); and  decrease in creatinine clearance 
(CrCl)  ≥  30%  and  ≤60 ml/min  at  baseline  (1  patient  [2.9%]  zoledronic  acid,  2  patients  [5.0%] 
risedronate). 
The  incidence  of  clinically  significant  renal  events  (renal  laboratory  criteria  confirmed  by  the 
adjudication  committee)  was  low  for  each  category,  and  there  was  a  similar  incidence  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  group  relative  to  the  risedronate  group  (2.2%  vs.  1.4%,  respectively),  except  for  the 
category of increase in serum creatinine > 0.5mg/dl (zoledronic acid 9, 2.2%; risedronate 3, 0.7%). 
The incidence of adverse events associated with a change in renal function based on the pre-specified 
MedDRA  search  criteria  was  10  (2.4%)  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group,  and  8  (1.9%)  in  the 
risedronate group.  
The  incidence  of  adverse  events  associated  with  a  change  in  renal  function  and  confirmed  by 
adjudication was slightly higher in the zoledronic acid group (7 [1.7%]) than in the risedronate group 
(4 [1.0%]). 
The  incidence  of  renal  laboratory  AEs  was  similar  in  both  groups  but  slightly  higher  for  clinical 
significant  event  of  “increase  in  serum  creatinine  >  0.5  mg/dl”  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group.  The 
number of cases are however too few to draw any conclusions. 
Cardiac/cardiovascular and stroke-related adverse events 
There was a higher incidence of cardiac arrhythmia AEs in the zoledronic acid group (4.1%) than in 
the  risedronate  group  (1.7%).  A  between-treatment  comparison  of  time  to  first  cardiac  arrhythmia 
adverse  event  showed  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group 
(p = 0.0411, Hazard ratio = 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0, 5.9). 
Atrial  fibrillation  or  atrial  flutter  was  experienced  by  four  patients,  none  of  the  events  were  serious 
(3 in the zoledronic acid group and 1 in the risedronate group). One of the patients in the zoledronic 
acid group never received study drug infusion, although the patient had been randomised and received 
the  first  dose  of  oral  placebo  study  medication.  Of  note,  more  than  twice  as  many  patients  in  the 
zoledronic acid group (2.2%) as in the risedronate group (1.0%) had active atrial fibrillation/flutter at 
baseline. 
Six  patients  (3  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  [supraventricular  tachycardia,  cardiac  arrest,  and 
atrioventricular block third degree] and 3 in the risedronate group [palpitations, tachyarrhythmia, and 
tachycardia]) had arrhythmia SAEs. In the zoledronic acid group, all three events were adjudicated as 
a confirmed event. No events were confirmed by adjudication in the risedronate group. 
The  number  and  percentage  of  all  stroke-related  AEs  reported  by  investigators  was  low  and  similar 
between the treatment groups (3 [0.7%] of zoledronic acid-treated patients vs. 2 [0.5%] of risedronate-
treated patients). 
The overall incidence of arrhythmia was higher in the zoledronic acid group, 4.1 versus 1.7%. Three 
cases of arrhythmia SAE were confirmed by adjudication committee but none in the risedronate group. 
There  were  3  cases  of  atrial  fibrillation  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group,  but  one  patient  had  never 
received the study drug compared to none in the risedronate group. Furthermore, more patients in the 
zoledronic acid had AF at baseline.  
Page 24 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bone biopsies 
Trans-iliac bone biopsies were obtained from 23 patients (12 in the zoledronic acid group and 11 in 
the  risedronate  group).  Due  to  the  small  numbers  of  biopsies  from  the  prevention  group  the  two 
subpopulations  were  analysed  together.  The  newly  formed  bone  was  of  normal  quality  in  terms  of 
normal  lamellar  structure  in  all  evaluable  biopsies.  There  was  no  evidence  of  pathological  findings, 
osteomalacia,  marrow  dyscrasia,  marrow  fibrosis  or  woven  bone.  The  two  treatments  resulted  in 
almost  identical  effects  on  static  and  dynamic  histomorphometric  parameters  indicating  normal 
osteoid  formation  and  mineralisation  of  newly  formed  bone  in  both  treatment  groups.  Bone 
remodelling  capacity  was  preserved  in  patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid  over  12  months  of 
treatment. 
Bone  turnover  at  the  tissue  level  revealed  lower  values  for  activation  frequency  (Ac.F),  bone 
formation  rate  (BFR/BS),  and  mineralising  surface  (MS/BS)  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  compared 
with the risedronate group but the differences were not statistically significant. The low values reflect 
reduction  in  bone  turnover,  due  to  the  decrease  in  activation  frequency  of  new  remodelling  cycles, 
consistent with the known mode of action of bisphosphonates. The median formation period (FP) was 
similar in both treatment groups. 
Histomorphometric  analysis  of  bone  structure  such  as  trabecular  number,  trabecular  thickness,  and 
wall thickness did not reveal differences between the two treatments.  
The  CHMP  noted  that  these  findings  are  in  line  with  previous  results  from  Study  2313  comparing 
alendronate  with  zoledronic  acid,  in  which  transiliac  bone  biopsies  were  obtained  in  a  subset  of 
25 patients  at  the  end  of  the  study.  The  study  showed  similar  effects  of  zoledronic  acid  and 
alendronate  on  various  histomorphometric  measures,  with  no  evidence  of  marrow  fibrosis  or 
mineralisation defects. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
The incidence of AEs causing discontinuation was 2.6% higher in the zoledronic acid treatment group 
(zoledronic  acid,  7.9%;  risedronate,  5.3%).  The  most  frequently  affected  PSOC  was  gastrointestinal 
disorders, which also had the three most commonly reported AEs leading to discontinuation: diarrhoea 
(5 patients vs. 2 patients), vomiting (4 patients vs. 1 patient), and nausea (3 patients vs. 5 patients) for 
the zoledronic acid vs. risedronate treatment groups, respectively. 
Post marketing experience 
Post-marketing experience of Aclasta, based on a cut-off date of 30-Apr-2007, indicates an estimated 
exposure  of  11,373  patient-years  (01-Nov-2006  –  30-Apr-2007).  An  estimate  of  patient  exposure  is 
calculated  based  on  worldwide  sales  volume  in  gram  (g)  of  active  substance  sold  during  the  review 
period  divided  by  the  defined  dose  (DD).  The  sales  volume  of  Aclasta  during  the  review  period  is 
31.13  g  and  the  DD  is  5  mg  (one  unit).  Aclasta  31.13  g  is  equal  to  6,226 units.  As  indicated  in  the 
CDS,  re-treatment  with  Aclasta  may  be  considered  12  months  after  the  initial  dose,  therefore,  the 
estimated exposure is 6226 patient-years. Cumulative estimated exposure is 11,373 patient-years. 
DISCUSSION ON CLINICAL SAFETY 
In  general,  safety  data  for  this  study  did  not  differ  from  studies  2301  and  2310.  As  no  general 
recommendation was given to patients in study 2306 to take prophylactic medication against post-dose 
influenza-like symptoms, there was a high frequency of such symptoms.  
Safety data analysed separately for elderly patients and for premenopausal women showed that there 
were few AEs in the zoledronic acid group which occurred at more than a two-fold greater incidence 
in  the  ≥  65  years  sub-group  than  the  pre-menopausal  sub-group  (back  pain,  constipation,  oedema 
peripheral,  contusion),  most  of  which  may  be  expected  to  occur  at  a  greater  incidence  in  an  elderly 
Page 25 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population. There were few AEs in the zoledronic acid group which occurred at more than a two-fold 
greater incidence in the pre-menopausal sub-group than the ≥ 65 years sub-group (rheumatoid arthritis, 
bone pain, asthenia, upper respiratory tract infection, weight increased). 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  differences  seen  could  most  probably  be  attributed  to  diseases  and 
symptoms  being  related  to  old  age  for  the  ≥  65  years  group  and  to  rheumatoid  arthritis  for  the 
premenopausal group. 
Arrhythmia and atrial fibrillation 
Like in the large postmenopausal osteoporosis study 2301- but in contrast to the smaller study 2310 in 
secondary fracture prophylaxis after hip fracture - more cases of arrhythmia events were reported in 
zoledronic-acid  treated  patients.  The  arrhythmia  events  were  in  general  reported  long  time  after  the 
zoledronic acid infusion. The CHMP pointed out that the results of this study could indicate a higher 
risk for arrhythmia, but in this relatively small study, the number  of cases was  too low to draw any 
conclusions and does not warrant any changes in the current RMP. 
The elderly have in general a high risk of developing cardiac arrhythmias especially atrial fibrillation 
(AF), either at baseline or during the course of therapy. Data on Aclasta showed that treated patients 
have  higher  risk  for  developing  cardiac  arrhythmias.  The  overall  incidence  of  arrhythmias  was 
significantly  higher  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group,  4.1  versus  1.7%.  Three  cases  of  arrhythmias  SAE 
were  confirmed  by  adjudication  committee  but  none  in  the  risedronate  group.  Four  cases  of  atrial 
flutter or fibrillation were also reported (3 of them in the ZOL group). The arrhythmia events were in 
general reported long time after the zoledronic acid infusion.  
Atrial fibrillation is included in the RMP as a potential risk and the MAH has committed to perform a 
5-year  Scandinavian  registry  study  (protocol  CZOL446H2422)  including  the  end-points  arrhythmias 
and  cardio-  and  cerebrovascular  disorders.  The  protocol  has  been  expanded  to  include  men  and 
women treated with zoledronic acid who are receiving chronic glucocorticoid treatment. In addition, 
patients  entering  the  placebo  controlled  6  and  9  year  extension  studies  of  Study  2301  in  PMO  are 
being monitored for AF. 
The cardiac arrhythmia events observed in study 2306 were distributed amongst a variety of different 
PTs  belonging  to  the  HLTs  Cardiac  conduction  disorders,  Rate  and  rhythm  disorders  NEC, 
Supraventricular  arrhythmias,  Ventricular  arrhythmias  and  cardiac  arrest  and  Cardiac  signs  and 
symptoms NEC. Atrial fibrillation is already included as a common adverse drug reaction in the SPC. 
No additional amendment to the SPC concerning cardiac arrhythmias is considered needed at present. 
Gastrointestinal symptoms 
Based on the available data, the CHMP considered that a yearly intravenous dose of zoledronic acid 
does not cause gastrointestinal symptoms like those often linked to the intake of oral bisphosphonates. 
The i.v. dosing schedule is also considered to increase patient compliance.  
Laboratory data and renal events 
Laboratory  data  and  renal  events  did  not  significantly  differ  between  treatment  groups.  The 
concomitant treatment with glucocorticoids and zoledronic acid could theoretically increase the risks 
of renal adverse events as steroids increase calciuria. 
Overdose 
Limited  information  on  overdose  in  single  oncology  patients  is  now  available,  however  there  is  no 
information on overdose of zoledronic acid from any clinical studies in any non-oncology indication. 
Some  of  the  patients  experienced  adverse  events,  such  as  transient  hyperthermia,  paresthesia  and 
abnormal liver function tests. In controlled clinical trials in the oncology indication, zoledronic acid 8 
Page 26 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mg  was  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  renal  toxicity  compared  to  zoledronic  acid  4  mg  when 
given as a 15-minute i.v. infusion. 
Pregnancies and use in pre-menopausal females 
The  CHMP  highlighted  that  three  pregnancies  occurred  in  the  study,  in  spite  of  patients  being 
requested to practice contraception during the study period.  
Zoledronic acid is currently contraindicated during pregnancy and considering the once yearly dosing 
and  long-standing  effect  special  care  has  to  be  taken  if  pre-menopausal  women  are  to  be  given 
zoledronic  acid,  considering  that  during  the  year  following  infusion  pregnancies  may  occur  without 
the possibility to discontinue treatment.  
After infusion of zoledronic acid, plasma concentrations of the active drug substance increases rapidly, 
followed by a rapid decline to < 10% of peak after 24 hours, with a subsequent prolonged period of 
very  low  concentrations  not  exceeding  0.1%  of  peak  levels.  Intravenously  administered  zoledronic 
acid  is  rapidly  distributed  to  bone,  and  like  other  bisphosphonates  localises  preferentially  at  sites  of 
bone resorption.  
The  CHMP  highlighted  that  teratogenicity  has  been  well  confirmed  in  the  rat  and  thus  the  current 
contraindication during pregnancy and during breast-feeding should remain unchanged.  
Aclasta, being a once yearly infusion, can however not be discontinued in case of pregnancy. 
The  CHMP  pointed  out  that  it  is  evident  that  the  plasma  concentration  of  zoledronic  acid  decreases 
rapidly  and  reaches  undetectable  levels  within  28  days.  However,  animal  and  human  data  clearly 
demonstrate that more than 50% of the administered dose is taken up by bone and that zoledronic acid, 
like other bisphosphonates, remains in the skeleton  for a very long time. Using an estimated human 
half-life of 10 years, the fraction remaining after one and three years would be approximately 93% and 
81%, respectively. 
Thus, the skeleton represents an endogenous reservoir, from which zoledronic acid may be mobilised 
by states of increased bone turn-over, which occurs especially during pregnancy.  
The MAH could not present any clinical data to support a 12 month period for practising contraception 
after  the  last  dose  of  Aclasta.  Furthermore  the  CHMP  considered  that  a  potential  risk  remains  for  a 
very  long  time  after  an  infusion.  The  CHMP  also  considered  that  there  is  a  potential  risk  that 
zoledronic acid may be mobilised from the skeleton during pregnancy and exhibit a substantial risk for 
a  developing  foetus.  Applying  principles  of  precaution,  the  CHMP  considered  consequently  that 
women of childbearing potential should be excluded from the indication. 
The CHMP further considered that the inclusion of bone distribution data in the Product Information 
should be considered by the MAH and that the MAH should commit to further discuss this point. 
User testing 
User testing was performed in English. The PL was tested in two test rounds, with a total of 20 test 
persons  (60  %  patients  with  bone  disease,  age  32-74,  85  %  women).  The  questionnaire  covered  the 
key safety issues of the PL although these were not identified prior to making the questionnaire. Each 
interview lasted between 25 and 35 minutes, depending on the age and ability of the interviewee. 
The  methodology  followed  the  readability  guideline.  Revisions  of  the  PL  were  made  following  the 
pilot round and the first test round. All questions met the criteria of at least 16 out of 20 being able to 
find and understand each question, although one question scored below 90 % in finding. 
At  the  time  of  the  testing  the  indication  was  Paget’s  disease  only,  but  it  was  anticipated  that  the 
product  would  be  approved  thereafter  in  post-menopausal  osteoporosis.  Considering  that  in  the 
combined  populations  women  would  form  the  vast  majority  of  treated  patients  therefore  the  MAH 
Page 27 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accepted  to  have  an  over-representation  of  women.  In  conclusion,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
submitted test results were judged acceptable. 
However, for future tests the CHMP recommends that only the PL that is included in the application is 
tested. If there are major changes during the procedure or if an older version of the PL has been tested, 
it may be necessary to retest the whole document or focus test on specific sections. However, in this 
matter the PL is found acceptable and rewordings made by the MAH are endorsed. 
PHARMACOVIGILANCE PLAN AND RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN (RMP) 
The elements of the proposed risk management plan (RMP) are consistent with the recommendations 
made in the ICH E2E Guideline on Pharmacovigilance and the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management 
Systems for Medicinal Products for Human Use (November 20, 2005). The CHMP considered that the 
structure  of  the  RMP  was  satisfactory,  and  the  current  version  follows  the  template  for  EU  RMP 
(September 2006).  
The  RMP  has  been  updated  with  information  on  studies  2306  as  discussed  within  this  report,  and 
study 2308 as currently discussed in variation EMEA/H/C/595/II/16.  
Summary of the risk management plan for Aclasta  
A  summary  of  safety  concerns,  Pharmacovigilance  activities  and  Risk  minimisation  activities  is 
presented below. 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activates 
(routine and additional)  
Detailed information in section 
4.8 of the CDS. 
Guide for healthcare 
professionals and patients 
(EU). 
Patient and healthcare 
professional education 
initiative. 
Detailed information in section 
4.4 of the CDS. 
Guide for healthcare 
professionals and patients 
(EU). 
Patient and healthcare 
professional education 
initiative. 
Listed in ADR section 4.8 of 
the CDS. 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important 
identified risks 
Post dose 
symptoms 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Renal dysfunction 
Ocular adverse 
events 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-marketing and 
clinical trial reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Adjudication of clinical trial cases meeting pre-
identified criteria*. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-marketing and 
clinical trial reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Adjudication of clinical trial cases*. 
Page 28 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Hypocalcaemia 
Osteonecrosis of 
the jaw 
Anaphylactic 
reaction 
Important 
potential risks 
AVN/fracture 
nonunion and/or 
delayed union 
Cerebrovascular 
AEs 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-marketing and 
clinical trial reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Post US approval voluntary registry study (Study 
ZOL446K2401) 
Adjudication of clinical trial cases meeting pre-
identified criteria*. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all post-marketing and clinical 
trial reports, using a targeted questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Special 15-day expedited reporting of ONJ regardless 
of seriousness, listedness and causality will be 
provided to EEA and USA Health Authorities for the 
two first years after launch of the osteoporosis 
indication in the EU. 
Adjudication of post-marketing cases of purported 
ONJ and clinical trials reports in phase III trials. 
Study ZOL446H2413 
Scandinavian Registry study (ZOL446H2422) 
Extension studies ZOL446H2301E1 and 
ZOL446H2301E2 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all post-marketing and clinical 
trial reports, using a targeted questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all post-marketing and clinical 
trial reports, using a targeted questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Adjudication of clinical trial cases*.  
Scandinavian Registry study  (ZOL446H2422) 
Extension studies ZOL446H2301E1 and 
ZOL446H2301E2 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all post-marketing and clinical 
trial reports, using a targeted questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Scandinavian Registry study (ZOL446H2422) 
Extension studies ZOL446H2301E1 and 
ZOL446H2301E2. 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activates 
(routine and additional)  
Detailed information in 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the 
CDS. 
Detailed information in section 
4.4 of the CDS. 
Detailed information in section 
4.4 of the CDS. 
Currently available data do not 
support the need for risk 
minimisation. 
Currently available data do not 
support the need for risk 
minimisation. 
Page 29 of 34 
 
 
 
  
Atrial fibrillation 
Gastrointestinal 
AEs 
Potential 
interactions 
Products that can 
significantly affect 
renal function 
Paracetamol/ 
acetaminophen 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all post-marketing and clinical 
trial reports, using a targeted questionnaire/checklist.  
Cumulative analysis in PSUR. 
Adjudication of serious clinical trial cases in phase 
III trials.  
Scandinavian Registry study (ZOL446H2422) 
Extension studies ZOL446H2301E1 and 
ZOL446H2301E2. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activates 
(routine and additional)  
Listed in ADR section 4.8 of 
the CDS. 
Detailed information in section 
4.8 of the CDS. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Drug interactions will be monitored through post-
marketing on a case-specific basis for suspected 
interactions, with targeted follow-up as appropriate. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Drug interactions will be monitored through post-
marketing on a case-specific basis for suspected 
interactions, with targeted follow-up as appropriate. 
Warning in Section 4.5 of the 
CDS 
None as the effects are mild, 
transient and not clearly related 
to Zoledronic acid 5 mg 
#Additional activities may have been agreed with Health Authorities in other countries 
*For studies H2301E1 and H2301E2 only 
Discussion of the RMP 
The MAH has submitted an updated RMP (version 006) and has amended the safety specification with 
newly  completed  clinical  trial  data.  No  new  safety  concerns  have  been  added  to  the  safety 
specification  since  the  last  RMP.  Long-term  follow-up  (beyond  12  months)  is  not  available  in  the 
population  with  GIO.  Long-term  therapy  with  bisphosphonates  as  well  as  concomitant  therapy  with 
corticosteroids are considered as risk factors for the development of ONJ, AVN and impaired fracture 
healing.  The  MAH  is  therefore  currently  addressing  the  possibility  of  an  increased  risk  of  negative 
skeletal  effects  with  long  term  zoledronic  acid  treatment  in  combination  with  high  doses  of 
corticosteroids:  Men  and  women  treated  with  Aclasta  and  receiving  chronic  corticosteroid  treatment 
will  be  included  in  the  5  year  Scandinavian  registry  study.  This  study  protocol  has  been  assessed 
within the Follow-Up Measures (FUMs) FU2 016.3, 017.4 and 019.2. 
As  part  of  the  type  II  variation  EMEA/H/C/595/II/16,  the  SPC,  section  4.8  was  amended  with 
information on the observed post marketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions including rare cases 
of  bronchoconstriction,  urticaria  and  angioedema  and  very  rare  cases  of  anaphylactic  reaction/shock 
(based on a recent change in the CCDS).  
The  CHMP  considered  that  pharmacovigilance  and  risk  minimisation  activities  should  also  be 
addressed for the identified risk of hypersensitivity reactions, the potential risk of gastrointestinal AEs 
and  the  missing  information  concerning  use  in  children/  adolescents  and  use  in  patients  with  severe 
renal  impairment  (<30  ml/min).  The  MAH  has  satisfactorily  specified  these  points  during  the 
procedure as outlined in the table above. 
Page 30 of 34 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  also  provided  revised  educational  material  for  physicians  reflecting  data  submitted  in 
support of this extension of indication. The CHMP considered these documents acceptable. 
Data  on  bone  safety  beyond  12  months  is  not  available  in  the  zoledronic  acid  treated  patients  with 
GIO. Both long-term therapy with bisphosphonates and concomitant therapy with corticosteroids are 
considered to be risk factors for the development of osteonecrosis and impaired fracture healing. 
The  MAH  has  committed  to  perform  a  long  term  follow  up  of  skeletal  and  cardiovascular  adverse 
events following treatment of patients with Aclasta. A 5 year registry study in Scandinavia is planned 
to  monitor  diagnoses  pertaining  to  cardiovascular  and  bone  diseases  in  patients  treated  with  Aclasta 
and  compare  them  to  diagnoses  registered  for  patients  treated  with  oral  bisphosphonates  and  to 
untreated  matched  controls.  The  current  trial  protocol  version  includes  only  women  but  it  will  be 
expanded  to  include  all  men  and  women  treated  with  Aclasta  and  receiving  chronic  corticosteroid 
treatment (This study protocol has been assessed in FUMs 016.3, 017.4 and 019.2). 
PRODUCT INFORMATION 
The detailed changes can be found in the final approved highlighted SPC/Annex II/ PL attached to this 
report. 
Changes were also made to Annex II in section “Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and 
effective use of the medicinal product” to reflect the new indication and that educational material will 
be  made  available  following  the  launch  of  the  new  indication.  The  section  “other  conditions”  was 
updated to reflect the current version number of the RMP. 
During  the  procedure,  variation  II-16  received  a  positive  Opinion  and  consequently  these  changes 
were included in the final Product Information. 
Further to the assessment and the scientific discussions held at the CHMP, the following changes to 
the Product Information were requested and subsequently implemented by the MAH. 
The PL was updated accordingly. 
SPC: 
Section 4.1 Therapeutic Indications 
This section was revised to reflect the current state of scientific knowledge on osteoporosis treatment 
taking  into  account  the  WHO  FRAX  tool  and  the    CHMP  Guideline  on  clinical  trials  in  primary 
osteoporosis to reflect that the indication focuses on treatment of osteoporotic patients at increased risk 
of fracture. As discussed above the indication was also revised to include only for patients intended for 
chronic treatment with corticosteroids. The wording of the indication was further modified in line with 
the wording of recently approved GIO indications for other products and to reflect that premenopausal 
women are not included in the indication. 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
The revised indication was reflected in this section stating that for the treatment of post-menopausal 
osteoporosis,  osteoporosis  in  men  and  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  associated  with  long-term 
systemic  glucocorticoid  therapy,  the  recommended  dose  is  a  single  intravenous  infusion  of  5  mg 
Aclasta administered once a year. 
Section 4.6 Pregnancy and lactation 
This  section  was  revised  to  include  a  statement  that  Aclasta  is  not  recommended  in  women  of 
childbearing  age  to  reflect  the  revised  indication  and  the  above  discussions  on  teratogenicity  in 
humans. 
Page 31 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
As the adverse event “dizziness” listed in section 4.8, this section was revised to reflect that dizziness 
may affect the ability to drive or use machines, though no studies on this effect with Aclasta have been 
performed. 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
The adverse events following the evaluation of safety data including study 2306 and those observed 
post marketing were included in one common table in the sense of the current SPC guideline, the term 
hypocalcaemia was included in the table, as well as a footnote to indicate which adverse events were 
observed in patients taking concomitant glucocorticosteroids. 
Section 4.9 Overdose 
Based on the safety information provided for this procedure the text was revised to reflect that clinical 
experience with acute overdose is limited. 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
The  sub-section  “Pharmacodynamic  effects“  was  updated  to  include  additional  information  on  the 
molecular mechanism and the binding of zoledronic acid to the bone. 
The proposed sub-sections “Clinical efficacy in osteoporosis associated with systemic glucocorticoid 
therapy”  and  “Effect  on  bone  mineral  density  (BMD)”  were  amended  to  reflect  the  new  indication 
focusing on long-term glucocorticoid therapy in postmenopausal women and men. 
Information on the duration of glucocorticoid therapy, the mean age of males and females and the 
incidence of fractures in study 2306 was included in line with the above discussions. A previously 
proposed paragraph on bone histology was removed, as the results from a limited group of patients in 
study 2306 were comparable to similar results from other studies already included in this section. 
PL 
The PL was further updated to reflect the revised indication and to translate some the term “infusion” 
in more patient-friendly language. A statement concerning symptoms of ONJ and an advice 
concerning dental treatment was included to better reflect the information in the SPC. The sub-section 
“Driving and using machines” and section 4 “Possible side effects” were amended in line with the 
SPC changes discussed above. 
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT 
The  MAH  did  not  submit  an  abbreviated  ERA  report  with  this  procedure,  but  committed  to  submit 
modified Follow-Up Measures as previously committed for EMEA/H/C/595/II/16 (FUM 021) taking 
into account the population of the indication of this procedure. The CHMP agreed to this approach. 
BENEFIT/RISK ASSESSMENT 
The  risk  of  fracture  has  been  demonstrated  to  increase  at  a  relatively  low  dose  of  glucocorticoid 
therapy,  below  7.5  mg  daily,  and  already  a  short  time  after  start  of  this  therapy.  In  patients  on 
glucocorticosteroids, fractures tended to occur at a higher BMD than in patients with postmenopausal 
osteoporosis  and  the  population  on  glucocorticoids  was  also  younger  than  the  population  with 
postmenopausal  osteoporosis.  With  this  background,  the  CHMP  considered  that  treatment  of 
osteoporosis patients at risk of fracture is desirable in this population.  
The  CHMP  estimated  that  only  a  minority  of  patients  on  glucocorticoids  are  at  present  receiving 
prophylaxis  medication  to  prevent  bone  loss.  Existing  medical  prevention  therapy  for  this  condition 
are certain bisphosphonates (nationally approved) and teriparatide.  
Page 32 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit 
Overall,  the  pivotal  study  met  its  endpoints  demonstrating  non-inferiority,  and  also  superiority,  of 
zoledronic  acid  compared  with  oral  risedronate  in  increasing  BMD  at  the  lumbar  spine  over 
12 months.  
The study was adequately sized and performed. Zoledronic acid was also significantly superior to the 
comparator  for  a  number  of  secondary  efficacy  parameters,  decreasing  bone  markers  and  increasing 
BMD  also  at  other  sites  than  the  lumbar  spine.  The  study  was  of  12  months  duration  and  was  not 
powered to demonstrate a difference in fracture incidence between treatment groups. Few patients had 
fractures  in  the  study  and  there  was  no  apparent  difference  between  the  treatment  groups.  A  yearly 
intravenous dose of zoledronic acid did not cause gastrointestinal symptoms like those often linked to 
the  intake  of  oral  bisphosphonates  and  the  IV  dosing  schedule  is  considered  to  increase  patient 
compliance.  
The IV dosing schedule is considered to increase patient compliance and furthermore  Aclasta is not 
associated with local irritating effects on the oesophagus associated with oral bisphosphonates 
In study 2306, an intravenous dose of 5 mg zoledronic acid was convincingly shown to increase the 
lumbar spine BMD from baseline to 12 months significantly better than daily oral risedronate, in the 
prevention  (on  glucocorticoids  3  months  or  less)  as  well  as  in  the  treatment  (on  glucocorticoids  for 
more than 3 months) subpopulations.  
In  a  CHMP  Scientific  advice  in  2004,  separate  trials  for  the  separate  indications,  prevention  vs. 
treatment of GIO, were recommended. Since then, however, there has been a change in the view of the 
management  of  osteoporosis  as  regards  differentiating  between  prevention  and  treatment  of 
osteoporosis 
in  primary  osteoporosis). 
The management of osteoporosis has also changed with the availability of the WHO Risk Assessment 
Tool  (FRAX).  The  MAH  therefore  agreed  to  change  the  wording  accordingly  by  avoiding  separate 
treatment and / or prevention claims. 
(see  also  CHMP  Guideline  on  clinical 
trials 
Furthermore,  the  indication  now  reflects  use  of  Aclasta  only  for  patients  intended  for  chronic 
treatment  with  corticosteroids.  The  wording  of  the  indication  was  therefore  further  modified,  in  line 
with the wording of recently approved GIO indications. 
Fractures tend to occur at higher BMD in GIO than in postmenopausal osteoporosis. Other factors than 
BMD for fracture risk in this condition were considered to be age and existing rheumatoid arthritis.  
The  translation  of  the  effects  on  BMD  into  fracture  reduction  was  discussed  above  and  the  MAH 
provided  satisfactory  justifications  in  this  respect.  Fracture  prevention  has  not  been  shown  in  the 
glucocorticoid  treated  population  but  significant  improvement  in  BMD  data,  and  positive  trends  for 
fracture data for the comparator in several clinical studies with risedronate provide strong indications 
for a fracture prevention effect. 
The  relatively  young  age  of  the  patients,  the  large  proportion  of  pre-menopausal  females  and  the 
under-representation  of  patients  with  osteoporosis  baseline  (less  than  10%)  indicates  that  the  patient 
population,  apart  from  receiving  high-dose  corticosteroids,  may  have  been  at  a  low  risk  of  fracture. 
The  MAH  discussed  the  fracture  risk  of  the  study-population  with  reference  to  the  FRAX  tool  and 
addressed the fracture risk in pre-menopausal females. The CHMP agreed that a small sub-set of pre-
menopausal women treated with high-dose corticosteroids may experience fractures, but in general the 
absolute  risk  is  very  low  and  the  evidence  of  benefit  for  the  majority  of  pre-menopausal  women  is 
lacking.  
Concerning  the  male  population,  Aclasta  has  received  approval  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in 
men at increased risk of fracture (variation II-16, see SPC) based on data from studies 2310 and 2308. 
The MAH further presented that no difference could be found in fracture data and demographic data 
on femoral neck BMD between males and females in study 2306. An effect in reducing fractures in 
Page 33 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
men  with  GIO  can  therefore  be  expected  based  on  the  concept  of  double-bridging  described  by  the 
GREES group as discussed above. 
Therefore, an effect in reducing fractures in men with GIO can be expected based on the concept of 
double-bridging described above. 
Fracture  rates  were  similar  and  very  low  in  both  active  treatment  groups.  The  fact  that  fracture 
reduction has not been demonstrated for zoledronic acid in GIO is now reflected in section 5.1 of the 
SPC. 
Risks 
The previously identified safety issues could be confirmed in study 2306. Like in study 2301, but in 
contrast to study 2310, there is a tendency to more arrhythmia events in the zoledronic acid treatment 
group,  but  numbers  were  too  low  to  draw  any  conclusions.  This  adverse  event  will  however  be 
sufficiently  followed  up  by  the  MAH  in  on-going  studies,  which  is  also  reflected  in  the  RMP.  In 
addition, atrial fibrillation is already listed in the Product Information. 
The risks of post dose influenza-like symptoms, renal toxicity and ONJ do not seem to differ from the 
risks in earlier studies in osteoporosis indications. The current data do not warrant any further changes 
neither to the SPC nor in the RMP concerning arrhythmia or atrial fibrillation.  
The  safety  concern  for  the  subgroup  of  premenopausal  women  in  the  study  population  in  this  study 
remains as zoledronic acid is contraindicated in pregnancy and lactation due to potential teratogenic 
effect.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  indication  should  not  include 
premenopausal  females.  Teratogenicity  has  been  well  confirmed  in  the  rat  and  thus  the  current 
contraindication during pregnancy and during breast-feeding should remain unchanged.  
Benefit/Risk Balance 
While  there  in  general  might  be  need  for  bisphosphonate  treatment  in  a  small  sub-group  of  pre-
menopausal  females  receiving  chronic  treatment  with  high-dose  corticosteroids,  the  evidence  of 
benefit  for  the  majority  of  pre-menopausal  women  is  lacking.  Based  on  a  review  of  available  data 
presented  by  the  MAH,  a  teratogenic  effect  of  zoledronic  acid  in  humans  can  not  be  excluded.  For 
Aclasta specifically, there is a concern that treatment cannot be discontinued in case of pregnancy, and 
that bisphosphonate may be released at a higher rate from the bone during pregnancy. As a measure of 
precaution, zoledronic acid should not be administered to women of childbearing potential. Therefore, 
premenopausal women should be excluded from the indication. 
Taken  together,  the  data  on  efficacy  and  safety  are  supporting  a  positive  benefit/risk  balance  in  the 
remaining populations reflected in the new indication “treatment of osteoporosis associated with long-
term  systemic  glucocorticoid  therapy  in  post-menopausal  women  and  in  men  at  increased  risk  of 
fracture” is considered favourable. 
CONCLUSION 
On  23  April  2009  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Page 34 of 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
