EMA/40540/2013 
EMEA/H/C/002676 
EPAR summary for the public 
Actelsar HCT 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Actelsar HCT. It explains how 
the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. 
It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Actelsar HCT. 
For practical information about using Actelsar HCT, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Actelsar HCT and what is it used for? 
Actelsar HCT is a medicine that contains two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide. It 
is used in adults who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not adequately 
controlled by telmisartan alone. ‘Essential’ means that the hypertension has no obvious cause.  
Actelsar HCT is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Actelsar HCT is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union (EU) called MicardisPlus. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Actelsar HCT used? 
Actelsar HCT is available as tablets (40 mg or 80 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide; 80 
mg telmisartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) to be taken by mouth once a day with liquid. The dose 
of Actelsar HCT to be used depends on the dose of telmisartan that the patient was taking before: 
patients who were receiving 40 mg telmisartan should take the 40/12.5 mg tablets, and patients who 
were receiving 80 mg telmisartan should take the 80/12.5 mg tablets. The 80/25 mg tablets are used 
in patients whose blood pressure is not controlled using the 80/12.5 mg tablets or who have been 
stabilised using the two active substances taken separately before switching to Actelsar HCT. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Actelsar HCT work? 
Actelsar HCT contains two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide.  
Telmisartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a 
hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance 
that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, 
telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic, which is another type of treatment for hypertension. It works by 
increasing urine output, reducing the amount of fluid in the blood and reducing the blood pressure.  
The combination of the two active substances has an additive effect, reducing the blood pressure more 
than either medicine alone. By lowering the blood pressure, the risks associated with high blood 
pressure, such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
How has Actelsar HCT been studied? 
Because Actelsar HCT is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, MicardisPlus. Two medicines are bioequivalent when 
they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Actelsar HCT? 
Because Actelsar HCT is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits 
and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Actelsar HCT approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Actelsar HCT has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to MicardisPlus. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for MicardisPlus, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Actelsar HCT be approved for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Actelsar HCT? 
Safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet 
for Actelsar HCT, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and 
patients. 
Other information about Actelsar HCT 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Actelsar HCT on 13 March 2013. 
The full EPAR for Actelsar HCT can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Actelsar HCT, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Actelsar HCT  
EMA/40540/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 03-2013. 
Actelsar HCT  
EMA/40540/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
