17 January 2013 
EMA/163479/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Actelsar HCT  
International non-proprietary name: TELMISARTAN / 
HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002676/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Product information  
Marketing authorisation application 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Actelsar HCT 
Applicant: 
Actavis Group hf 
Reykjavikurvegur 76-78 
220 Hafnarfjordur 
ICELAND 
Active substance: 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
International Nonproprietary 
Name/Common Name: 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics 
(ATC Code): 
(C09DA07) 
Therapeutic indications: 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (40 mg 
telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (80 mg 
telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (80 mg 
telmisartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on Actelsar HCT 80 
mg/12.5 mg (80 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide) or adults who have been 
previously stabilised on telmisartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide given separately. 
Pharmaceutical form: 
tablets 
Strengths: 
40mg/12.5 mg; 80mg/12.5 mg; 80mg/25 mg 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 2/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Route of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
blister (Alu/Alu), blister (PVDC/Alu) and bottle 
(HDPE) 
Package sizes: 
14 tablets, 28 tablets, 56 tablets, 84 tablets, 90 
tablets, 98 tablets, 30 tablets and 250 tablets 
REFERENCE MEDICINAL PRODUCT (USED IN BIOEQUIVALENCE STUDY) 
Name of the medicinal product: 
MicardisPlus 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
Active substances: 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Therapeutic indications: 
Treatment of essential hypertension.   
MicardisPlus fixed dose combination (40 mg 
telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
MicardisPlus fixed dose combination (80 mg 
telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
MicardisPlus fixed dose combination (80 mg 
telmisartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on MicardisPlus 80 mg/12.5 
mg (80 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide) or adults who have been 
previously stabilised on telmisartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide given separately. 
Pharmaceutical form: 
tablets 
Strengths: 
40mg/12.5 mg; 80mg/12.5 mg; 80mg/25 mg  
Route of administration: 
Oral use 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 3/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 12 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 13 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 19 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 20 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 4/20 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
HCTZ   
CEP 
XRD 
HPLC   
HPLC DAD 
UV 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia 
X Ray diffraction 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography with Diode-Array Detection 
Ultraviolet spectroscopy 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 5/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Actavis Group hf submitted on 3 May 2012 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Actelsar HCT, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 15 December 2011. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (40 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated in 
adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (80 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated in 
adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (80 mg telmisartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated in 
adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on Actelsar HCT 80 mg/12.5 mg (80 mg 
telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) or adults who have been previously stabilised on telmisartan 
and hydrochlorothiazide given separately. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and 
bioequivalence studies with the reference medicinal product MicardisPlus. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:   
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: MicardisPlus 40 mg/12,5 mg, 80 mg/12,5 mg & 80 
mg/25 mg tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH, Germany 
•  Date of authorisation: 19-04-2002 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/02/213/001-023 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 6/20 
 
 
 
  
  
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: MicardisPlus 40 mg/12,5 mg, 80 mg/12,5 mg & 80 
mg/25 mg tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH, Germany 
•  Date of authorisation:  19-04-2002 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/02/213/001-023 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and 
to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:     MicardisPlus 80 mg/25 mg tablets       
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH, Germany 
•  Date of authorisation: 19-04-2002 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
−  Community Marketing authorisation numbers:       EU/1/02/213/017-023     
•  Bioavailability study number(s): 2335-11 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team were: 
Rapporteur:  Alar Irs  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 3 May 2012.  
The procedure started on 23 May 2012. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 August 
2012.  
During the meeting on 20 September 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 September 2012. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 11 
October 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 23 November 2012. 
During the meeting on 10-13 December 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Outstanding Issues to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Outstanding 
Issues was sent to the applicant on 14 December 2012. 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 7/20 
 
  
  
17 December 2012. 
• 
• 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 27 December 2012. 
During the meeting on 14-17 January 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Actelsar HCT on 17 January 2013. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Actelsar HCT 40 mg/12.5 mg, 80 mg/12.5 mg and 80 mg/25 mg tablets is a generic medicinal product of 
MicardisPlus, which has been authorised in the EU since 19 April 2002. 
Actelsar HCT is a fixed-dose combination of the active substances telmisartan, a non-peptide angiotensin 
II  receptor  (type  AT1)  antagonist,  and  hydrochlorothiazide,  a  thiazides  diuretic.  Telmisartan  acts  as 
vasodilator  and  reduces  peripheral  resistance.  It  is  given  in  the  management  of  hypertension,  heart 
failure, myocardial infarction and nephropathy. Thiazides such as hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) are used in 
the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. 
Telmisartan /hydrochlorothiazide tablets are administered orally for treatment of hypertension. The 
combination of these ingredients has an additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a 
greater degree than either component alone. The effects of fixed dose combination of telmisartan/HCTZ 
on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity are currently unknown. 
The safety and efficacy profile of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide has been demonstrated in several 
clinical trials details of which can be found in the EPAR of MicardisPlus. In addition, there is a long-term 
post-marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Since this 
application is a generic application referring to the reference medicinal product MicardisPlus, summary of 
the clinical data of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide is available and no new clinical studies regarding 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been conducted. 
The approved indication is:  
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (40 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated in 
adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (80 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated in 
adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. 
Actelsar HCT fixed dose combination (80 mg telmisartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated in 
adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on Actelsar HCT 80 mg/12.5 mg (80 mg 
telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide) or adults who have been previously stabilised on telmisartan 
and hydrochlorothiazide given separately. 
The indication proposed for Actelsar HCT is the same as authorized for the Reference medicinal product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 8/20 
 
  
  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as tablets containing 40 mg/12.5 mg, 80 mg/12.5 mg and 80 mg/25 mg 
of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide as active substances. The composition is described in section 6.1 
of the SmPC. 
Actelsar HCT 40 mg/12.5 mg are 6.55 x 13.6 mm oval, biconvex tablets marked with “TH” on one side. 
Actelsar HCT 80/12.5 mg are 9 x 17 mm capsule shape tablets, white or almost white, marked with “TH 
12.5” on both sides. Actelsar HCT 80 mg/25 mg are 9.0 x 17.0 mm oval, biconvex tablets marked with 
“TH” on one side and “25” on the other side. 
The product is available in blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
Telmisartan 
Telmisartan is a white to off-white crystalline powder, slightly hygroscopic, practically insoluble in water, 
slightly soluble in methanol, sparingly soluble in methylene chloride and freely soluble in organic solvents. 
The chemical name is:  
4’-[[4-Methyl-6-(1-methyl-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl)-2-propyl-1Hbenzimidazol-1-yl]methyl]biphenyl-2-car
boxylic acid. 
Telmisartan  has  no  chiral  centres  and  exhibits  no  stereoisomerism.  The  active  substance  exhibits 
polymorphism.  Differential  scanning  calorimetry  studies  confirm  that  the  manufacturing  process  used 
consistently produces the same polymorphic form.  
As there is a monograph of telmisartan in the European Pharmacopoeia, the manufacturer of the active 
substance, has been granted a Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for 
telmisartan which has been provided within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture 
A Certificate of Suitability (CEP) has been granted for the active substance. The relevant information has 
been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  will  be  tested  and  assessed  by  the  finished  product  manufacturer  applying  the 
methods and specifications laid down in the Ph. Eur. monograph and CEP of telmisartan.  
Stability 
The CEP of the active substance manufacturer includes a suitably validated re-test period in a defined 
container closure system, supported by the available stability data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 9/20 
 
  
  
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) is a white or almost white crystalline powder, very slightly soluble in water, 
soluble in acetone, sparingly soluble in ethanol (96 per cent). The chemical name is: 6-Chloro-3, 
4-dihydro-2H-1, 2, 4-benzothiadiazine-7-sulfonamide 1, 1-dioxide. 
Hydrochlorothiazide does not show optical activity or different potential isomers. It shows polymorphism. 
The manufacturing process consistently produces the same polymorphic form.  
As there is a monograph of hydrochlorothiazide in the European Pharmacopoeia, the manufacturers of the 
active substance, have been granted Certificates of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for 
hydrochlorothiazide which have been provided within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture 
A Certificate of Suitability (CEP) has been granted for the active substance. The relevant information has 
been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  will  be  tested  and  assessed  by  the  finished  product  manufacturer  applying  the 
methods and specifications laid down in the Ph. Eur. monograph and CEP of hydrochlorothiazide.  
Stability 
The CEP includes a suitably validated re-test period in a defined container closure system, supported by 
the available stability data. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the development was to formulate an oral dosage form consisting of a fixed dose combination 
of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide. The tablets were intended to show essential similarity with the 
reference product Micardisplus 40/12.5 mg, 80/12.5 mg and 80/25 mg tablets. 
The excipients used in the formulation were all compendial, well known and widely used for this dosage 
form. The excipients used include: magnesium stearate (lubricant), potassium hydroxide (pH regulator), 
meglumine (pH regulator), povidone (binder/crystallization retarder), sodium starch glycollate 
(disintegrant), microcrystalline cellulose (filler/binder), mannitol (filler), purified water (granulation 
liquid), and ethanol 96% (granulation liquid). 
The  reference  product  is  manufactured  as  a  double  layer  tablet  to  solve  the  incompatibility  issues 
between  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide,  whereas  Actelsar  HCT  has  been  formulated  as  a  mono 
tablet. The incompatibility between the two active substances has been solved by carefully controlling the 
pH during the manufacturing process to ensure that hydrochlorothiazide is stable and telmisartan does 
not precipitate.  
A  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  to  demonstrate  the  bioequivalence  of  Actelsar  HCT  with  the 
reference product. The highest strength (80/25 mg) was selected for the bioequivalence study. It has 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 10/20 
  
  
been concluded that the test product, Actelsar HCT 80/25 mg, is bioequivalent to the reference product, 
MicardisPlus 80/25 mg in healthy adults, under fasting conditions. 
The additional strengths of the product series, 40/12.5 mg and 80/12.5 mg, have not been tested in vivo 
for bioequivalence. Exemption of a bioavailability study for the 40/12.5 mg and 80/12.5 mg strengths was 
acceptable since all requirements of a biowaiver for these strengths have been fulfilled.The formulation 
used during clinical studies is the same that the used for marketing. 
The primary packaging proposed is Al/Al blisters, Al/PVC/PVDC blisters or HDPE containers with LDPE lid. 
The material complies with PhEur requirements and it is adequate to support the stability and use of the 
product.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process consists of thirteen main steps including blending, sieving, granulation, 
drying, tableting and packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
The manufacturing process has been adequately described and the critical steps have been identified. 
In-process controls are adequate for this tablet preparation and are performed during granulation, 
tableting and packaging.  
The validation protocol proposed for the full scale batches has been provided and the quality of the 
production batches will be evaluated through the results of in process testing as well as the results of 
finished product testing. 
The batch analysis data on seven pilot scale batches shows that the tablets can be manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for the control of this 
oral preparation. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specification includes appropriate tests for: description (visual examination), 
identification of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide (High Pressure Liquid Chromatography-HPLC and 
HPLC with Diode Array Detector-DAD), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), average weight of 10 tablets, 
disintegration (Ph. Eur.), dissolution (Ultra-violet-UV), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC) and 
microbiological purity (Ph. Eur.). 
Batch analysis results on two pilot scale batches for the 40 mg/12.5 mg and 80 mg/25 mg strengths and 
three pilot scale batches for the 80 mg/12.5 mg strength were in accordance with the proposed 
specification. The CHMP concluded that the specification limits for dissolution for the higher strengths 
(80mg/12.5mg; 80mg/25mg) of the finished product can be accepted considering the discriminatory 
nature of the dissolution test.  However, the specification limits should be re-evaluated, when further 
batch results for commercial size batches are available, in order to tighten the limits. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of two pilot scale batches for the 40 mg/12.5 mg and 80 mg/25 mg strengths and three pilot 
scale batches for the 80 mg/12.5 mg strength stored under long term conditions for 12 months at 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 11/20 
  
  
25ºC/60%RH and for up to six months under accelerated conditions at 40ºC/75%RH according to ICH 
guidelines were provided. The batches of Actelsar HCT are identical to those proposed for marketing and 
were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for description, identification, uniformity of dosage units, average weight of 10 
tablets, disintegration, dissolution, assay, related substances, microbiological purity and resistance to 
crushing. The analytical procedures used were stability indicating. 
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of 
New Drug Substances and Products. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life as stated in the SmPC is acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
The CHMP recommends the re-evaluation of the specification limits for dissolution for the higher strengths 
(80mg/12.5mg; 80mg/25mg) of the finished product and if appropriate to tighten the specification when 
further batch results for commercial size batches are available. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 12/20 
  
  
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Actelsar HCT manufactured by Actavis hf. is considered unlikely to result in any 
significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide containing 
products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be 
similar and not increased. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for Actelsar HCT tablets containing telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide. To support 
the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted two bioequivalence studies, one pilot 
study No. 2043/10and one pivotal study No. 2335/11, with the highest telmisartan / 
hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg strength.  
Pivotal study No. 2335/11: A randomized, open label, two treatment, four period, two sequence, single 
dose,  crossover,  fully  replicate,  bioequivalence  study  of  tablets  containing  Fixed  Dose  Combination 
(FDC)  of  telmisartan  80  mg  and  hydrochlorothiazide  25  mg  of  Actavis  Group  PTC  ehf.  Iceland  and 
Micardis Plus (telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide) 80/25 mg tablets of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma 
GmbH, Germany, in healthy adult subjects, under fasting conditions. 
Pilot bioequivalence study no. 2043/10: A randomized, open label, three treatment, three period, three 
sequence,  single  dose,  crossover,  pilot,  bioequivalence  study  of  two  test  formulations  of  fixed  dose 
combination  (FDC)  tablets  containing  telmisartan  80  mg  and  hydrochlorothiazide  25  mg  of  Actavis 
Group PTC ehf, Iceland and Micardis Plus (telmisartan 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) tablets of 
Boehringer  Ingelheim  International  GmbH,  Germany,  in  healthy  adult  subjects,  under  fasting 
conditions. 
The applicant claims for a biowaiver for the telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 40/12.5 mg and 80/12.5 
mg strengths, which was acceptable to the CHMP (see Pharmacokinetics below). 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide based on published literature. The SmPC 
is in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment ‘Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1’ in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Clinical studies 
To support the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted two bioequivalence studies, 
one pilot study No. 2043/10 and one pivotal study No. 2335/11, with the highest telmisartan / 
hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg strength.  
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 13/20 
  
  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
According to the SmPC of the reference product MicardisPlus, the pharmacokinetics of telmisartan is 
non-linear with more than dose proportional increase in Cmax and AUC. As per literature references 
submitted by the Applicant, the pharmacokinetics of hydrochlorothiazide is linear over the dose range of 
12.5 mg to 25 mg.  
According to the SmPC, the reference product can be taken with or without food. 
Therefore, choice of strength, the highest telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg tablets, and 
design of the pivotal study, a single dose crossover bioequivalence study under fasting condition, are 
appropriate and in line with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence. 
Pivotal study No. 2335/11 
Study design  
A single dose, replicate design bioequivalence study under fasting conditions to demonstrate essential 
similarity between the test and reference product was conducted. This was an open label randomised 
study. 
Test and reference products  
Test Product: 
Name: Telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Dosage form/Route of administration: Tablet / Oral 
Regimen: Single dose of 1 x 80 mg/25 mg 
Reference Product: 
Name: MicardisPlus 
Dosage form/Route of administration: Tablet / Oral 
Regimen: Single dose of 1 x 80 mg/25 mg 
Population(s) studied   
48 healthy male subjects enrolled in the study, 43 were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical 
analysis. Healthy male subjects (21 to 43 years of age) with a normal weight, liver and kidney function 
and no prior drug use were admitted. 
Analytical methods 
LC-MS/MS  methods  were  used  for  the  determination  of  plasma  concentrations  of  both  analytes,  for 
telmisartan solid phase extraction and for HCTZ liquid extraction was used for sample preparation.  
The analytical range for telmisartan was 1.990 to 1022.298 ng/ml in the biostudy.  
For  hydrochlorothiazide  the  calibration  curve  ranged  from  1.053  ng/ml  to  298.438  ng/ml  in  the 
biostudy.  
Analytical methods were appropriately validated and met the criteria of the Guideline on Bioanalytical 
Method Validation.  
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 14/20 
  
  
Pharmacokinetic Variables 
The pharmacokinetic parameters determined were Cmax, Tmax, AUCT, AUC∞, AUCT/∞, Kel and T½el, 
which  were  measured  and  calculated  from  the  collected  blood  samples  for  telmisartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide.  The  main  PK  parameters  were  estimated  using  a  non-compartmental  approach 
with a log-linear terminal phase assumption. The trapezoidal rule was used to estimate the area under 
the  curve  and  the  terminal  phase  was  estimated  by  maximizing  the  coefficient  of  determination 
estimated from the log-linear regression model. The natural logarithmic transformation of Cmax, AUCT 
and AUC∞ as well as the rank-transformation of Tmax were used for all statistical analysis.  
Statistical methods 
The statistical analysis was carried out according to the bioequivalence guideline. This means natural log 
transformation of the data and analysis of variance. A linear mixed effects model (Proc Mixed of SAS) for 
repeated measurements included as main factors periods, sequences and formulations as fixed effects. 
Subjects  were  considered  as  a  random  factor.  AUC0-t  and  Cmax  were  the  primary  pharmacokinetic 
variables  in  this  study.  The  bioequivalence  criteria  were  based  on  the  90%CI  of  the  ratio  (test 
product/reference product) of least square means from the ANOVA of the log-transformed AUC0-t and 
Cmax.  The  resulting  interval  had  to  fit  within  the  equivalence  interval  of  80.00%  to  125.00%  for 
telmisartan AUC and hydrochlorothiazide AUC / Cmax. 
A claim of bioequivalence was based on the AUC0-t and Cmax. 
Software SAS package 9.2 was used for statistical analysis.  
Standard statistical analysis using ANOVA and linear mixed effects model were used and are considered 
acceptable  methods.  Widening  of  the  90%CI  of  Cmax  of  telmisartan  had  been  pre-specified,  and  is 
acceptable for a replicate design study.  
In  addition,  a  pilot  bioequivalence  study  was  conducted  in  27  healthy  volunteers;  the  study  had 
non-replicate design (see discussion below). Bioequivalence was demonstrated for AUCT and Cmax both 
for  telmisartan  and  for  hydrochlorothiazide.  Hence,  the  choice  of  replicate  design  and  pre-specified 
widening of 90%CI of Cmax of telmisartan were not supported by the results from the pilot study. 
Results 
A total of 43 subjects were analysed. 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters for the test and reference product is presented in Table 3.1.A. 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters for the test and reference product is presented in Table 3.1.B. 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 15/20 
 
  
  
Statistical analysis   
Results for telmisartan are presented in Table 3.3.A. 
The bioequivalence study had replicate design and intrasubject coefficient of variance was calculated 
from the two administrations of the reference product: 
Intrasubject CV% of Cmax of telmisartan was 32.44%, hence, the scaled widening of 90%CI of the 
Cmax would be acceptable. However, the 90% CI lied within the standard 80.00%-125.00%.Results for 
hydrochlorothiazide are presented in Table 3.3.B. 
Safety data 
There were no serious adverse events in the study. There were 60 adverse events reported in the study 
out of which 56 events were considered related to study products and 4 events were considered to be 
unrelated to the study products. Among the 56 events, 30 events were assessed to be related to the test 
product and 26 events to the reference product. All adverse events were mild to moderate in intensity 
and resolved completely without sequelae. Based on the review of the clinical and laboratory safety 
data, both the test and reference product were found to be safe and well tolerated.  
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 16/20 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Conclusions pivotal study 
This study shows that the requirements for claiming bioequivalence of the described test-formulation 
are fulfilled: for all key pharmacokinetic parameters, listed in the relevant guidelines, the 90% CI of the 
AUC  and  Cmax  ratio’s  for  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  are  within  the  classical  80.00%  - 
125.00% range. The study design and conduct were valid and appropriate, the chemical analysis was 
sufficiently sensitive and no serious invalidating protocol deviations were noted. The washout period of 
12 days was sufficiently long. The pharmacokinetics of telmisartan is nonlinear with more than dose 
proportional increase in plasma concentration (Cmax and AUC). Hydrochlorothiazide pharmacokinetics 
are  reported  to  be  linear  (Dollery  C.  ed  [1999]  HCTZ  in  Therapeutic  Drugs  Churchill  Livingstone, 
London). It is therefore appropriate to conduct the bioequivalence study on the highest strength and the 
results of this bioequivalence study can be extrapolated to other dosage strengths. 
Pilot bioequivalence study no. 2043/10  
A randomized, open label, three treatment, three period, three sequence, single dose, crossover, pilot, 
bioequivalence  study  of  two  test  formulations  of  fixed  dose  combination  (FDC)  tablets  containing 
telmisartan 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg of Actavis Group PTC ehf, Iceland and Micardis Plus 
(telmisartan 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) tablets of Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, 
Germany, in healthy adult subjects, under fasting conditions”. 
A total of 27 healthy adult male subjects were enrolled for the study. 22 subjects completed the study. 
25 subjects were included in the final statistical analysis of AUC and Cmax. The pilot study was a three 
period crossover bioequivalence study. Two formulations of the test product were tested. 
Bioequivalence  between  the  generic  Actavis  Group  PTC  ehf  telmisartan/HCTZ  80/25  mg  and  the 
reference product MicardisPlus 80/25 mg was demonstrated in this pilot study.  
Biowaiver 
The applicant claims for a biowaiver for the lower telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 40/12.5 mg and 
80/12.5 mg strengths. 
The extrapolation is valid as the following requirements are fulfilled: 
a) the products are manufactured by the same manufacturing process, 
b) the qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same, 
c) the ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same, 
d) appropriate in vitro dissolution data are present and similar in outcome. 
If there are some deviations from quantitative proportionality point c) above is still valid if either i) and 
ii) or i) and iii) below are fulfilled: 
i) the amount of active substance is less then 5% of the tablet core weight, 
ii) the amounts of different core excipients or capsule content are the same and only the amount of 
active substance is changed, 
iii) the amount of filler is changed to account for the change in active substance. 
The ratios are the same for all ingredients in 40/12.5 mg and 80/25 mg. The only variations in the ratios 
are in the 80/12.5 mg tablet for HCTZ (below 5%) and for Mannitol (filler).As all the above requirements 
are fulfilled the bioequivalence results from the study on telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg can 
be used to waive studies on the lower strengths. 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 17/20 
  
  
Overall Pharmacokinetic Conclusion   
Bioequivalence between the generic Actavis Group PTC ehf telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg 
and the reference product MicardisPlus 80/25 mg was demonstrated in the pivotal bioequivalence study. 
Data submitted to support a biowaiver claim for telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 40/12.5 mg tablets 
and 80/12.5 mg tablets are acceptable.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
This application concerns the generic medicinal product Actavis Group PTC ehf telmisartan / 
hydrochlorothiazide 40/12.5 mg tablets, 80/12.5 mg tablets and 80/25 mg tablets.  
The pivotal study was a single dose replicate design bioequivalence study under fasting conditions 
conducted to demonstrate essential similarity with the reference product MicardisPlus (Boerhinger 
Ingelheim GmbH, Germany). The reference product MicardisPlus can be taken with or without food, 
hence, a fasting study is acceptable. Selection of the highest telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg 
strength is appropriate since according to the SmPC of the reference product, telmisartan has non-linear 
PK with more than dose proportional increase in AUC. As per submitted literature references, PK of 
hydrochlorothiazide is linear over the dose range of 12.5 mg to 25 mg. The pivotal study had a replicate 
design. A pilot non-replicate design bioequivalence study was conducted in 27 healthy volunteers. 
Bioequivalence was demonstrated for AUCT and Cmax both for telmisartan and for hydrochlorothiazide. 
Hence, the choice of replicate design and pre-specified widening of 90%CI of Cmax of telmisartan were 
not supported by the results from a pilot study. However, overall the design and conductance of the study 
was acceptable and in line with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence. 
For the highest telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 80/25 mg strength bioequivalence between the generic 
Actavis Group PTC ehf tablets and the EU reference product MicardisPlus has been demonstrated both for 
Cmax (telmisartan 94.62 [90%CI 86.31 ; 103.73]; HCTZ 89.91 [90%CI 83.23 ; 97.13]) and for AUCT 
(telmisartan 103.01 [90% CI 98.43 ; 107.80]; HCTZ 93.89 [88.02 ; 100.15]). 
A biowaiver claim has been submitted for the additional 40/12.5 mg and 80/12.5 mg strengths. All criteria 
for a biowaiver according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence are fulfilled. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
In conclusion, bioequivalence has been shown between the generic test product Actavis Group PTC ehf 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 40/12.5 mg tablets, 80/12.5 mg tablets and 80/25 mg tablets and the 
reference product MicardisPlus (Boerhinger Ingelheim GmbH, Germany). 
With reference to the 40/12.5 mg and 80/12.5 mg strengths, all criteria for a biowaiver according to the 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence are fulfilled. 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 18/20 
  
  
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
During the procedure, the applicant replaced the detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
(DDPS) with the summary of pharmacovigilance system, which is acceptable.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan since the application concerns 
a generic with a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns require additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
PSUR submission 
At the time of granting the marketing authorisation, the submission of periodic safety update reports is 
not required for this medicinal product.  However, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product if the product is included in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on 
the European medicines web-portal.  
User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to MicardisPlus 40mg/12.5mg tablets. The bridging report 
submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide tablets. The reference 
product MicardisPlus is indicated for treatment of essential hypertension. No nonclinical studies have 
been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for 
the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this 
application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the 
efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects 
based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study 2335/11 forms the pivotal basis with a single dose, randomised, replicate 
design under fasting conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the 
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 19/20 
 
  
  
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. The 
reference product MicardisPlus can be taken with or without food; hence, a fasting study is considered 
acceptable. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were 
adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were 
adequate. 
The test formulation of Actelsar HCT met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the reference product. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the 
parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range 
of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
In addition, with reference to the additional 40/12.5 mg and 80/12.5 mg strengths, all criteria for a 
biowaiver according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence are fulfilled. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Actelsar HCT in the treatment of essential hypertension is favourable 
and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable. 
PSUR cycle 
At the time of granting the marketing authorisation, the submission of periodic safety update reports is 
not required for this medicinal product.  However, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product if the product is included in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on 
the European medicines web-portal.  
Assessment report  
EMA/163479/2013 
Page 20/20 
 
 
  
  
