28 March 2019 
EMA/241761/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): glimepiride / pioglitazone hydrochloride, metformin / 
pioglitazone, pioglitazone 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002417/201807 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 August 2016 to 31 July 2018  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for glimepiride / pioglitazone 
hydrochloride, metformin / pioglitazone, pioglitazone, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The MAH provided updates on new information related to the important identified and important potential 
risks as listed in the summary of safety concerns. The data presented during the current reporting period 
did not provide new information that would allow for further reduction, mitigation, or characterisation of 
these risks. Based on the data presented, the risk minimisation measures in the approved product 
information are considered adequate for the listed safety concerns. 
Given the accumulation of data since the implementation of the additional risk minimization measures, 
the PRAC agreed with the MAH’s proposal to remove the additional risk minimisation measures. As a 
consequence, the conditions or restrictions with regards to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product should be updated to remove the additional risk minimisation measures. The RMP has been 
updated in accordance.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for glimepiride / pioglitazone hydrochloride, metformin / 
pioglitazone, pioglitazone the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal 
product(s) containing glimepiride / pioglitazone hydrochloride, metformin / pioglitazone, pioglitazone is 
unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/241761/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
