European Medicines Agency 
Post authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 26 January 2007 
Product Name: Actos 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/285/II/25 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Pioglitazone  is  a  (2,4)  thiazolidinedione  (TZD)  derivative  that  is  an  orally  active  ligand  for  the 
peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ).   
Pioglitazone is currently approved in the EU with the following indications: 
- 
- 
As  monotherapy  in  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  patients,  particularly  overweight  patients, 
inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  for  whom  metformin  is  inappropriate  because  of 
contraindications or intolerance. 
In dual oral combination therapy with metformin or a sulphonylurea, in type 2 diabetes mellitus 
patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated dose of oral monotherapy 
with  either  metformin  or  sulphonylurea.  The  combination  with  metformin  is  particularly  for 
overweight  patients  and  the  combination  with  sulphonylurea  only  for  patients  who  show 
intolerance to metformin or for whom metformin is contraindicated. 
The  MAH  submitted  this  Type  II  variation  to  include  the  use  of  pioglitazone  in  combination  with 
insulin,  primarily  as  a  result  of  clinical  trial  data  from  the  completion  of  a  large  macrovascular 
outcome  study  of  pioglitazone  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus,  known  as  ‘PROactive’ 
(protocol reference AD-4833/EC444), performed following a commitment made to the CPMP in June 
2000. The MAH was of the opinion that the results of this study, showing that pioglitazone given in 
combination  with  current  antidiabetic  therapy,  including  insulin,  reduced  the  risk  of  macrovascular 
events  in  patients  with  pre-existing  macrovascular  disease,  justified  the  widening  of  the  therapeutic 
indication for use of pioglitazone, including combination therapy with insulin.  
2. 
CLINICAL ASPECTS 
The MAH submitted the following evidence in support of its application: 
-  Three clinical trial reports on the efficacy and safety of pioglitazone in combination with insulin 
in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes as follows (see Table 1): 
(cid:131)  Two  previously  submitted  clinical  trial  reports  (PNFP-014  submitted  as  part  of  the 
original MAA and PNFP-343, a commitment study submitted in 2002)  
(cid:131)  One newly submitted clinical trial report (GLAT) interim 48 week analysis of study 
FTC-202; 
-  An  analysis  of  the  completed  study  EC444  (PROactive),  a  randomised,  double-blind, 
multicentre,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group  phase  3b  cardiovascular  outcomes  study,  in 
patients with advanced type 2 diabetes and pre-existing macrovascular disease, which included 
1760 patients on insulin therapy at baseline.  
2/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Overview of pioglitazone and insulin combination studies 
The MAH stated that all of the studies were conducted in accordance with the prevailing ethical 
standards including those in Directive 2001/20/EC where appropriate. 
2.1  Clinical efficacy 
PNFP-014: Comparison of Pioglitazone (15 mg and 30 mg) with Placebo as an Add-on to Insulin 
Study Design 
This was a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the safety and efficacy 
of 2 doses of pioglitazone (15 or 30 mg) in combination with insulin compared with insulin alone in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose glucose levels were poorly controlled with their current 
insulin therapy. Patients who participated in this study were 30 to 75 years of age inclusive, had an 
HbA1c value greater than or equal to 8.0%, had received insulin therapy of at least 30 units/day for 4 
months or longer, and were on a stable, fixed dose of insulin for at least 30 days before the study (with 
or without metformin, acarbose, or a sulphonylurea). 
The primary efficacy variable was change from Baseline in HbA1c. The secondary efficacy variables 
were HbA1c  responder rate defined as a percentage of patients achieving a clinically relevant target 
value,  FPG,  fasting  C-peptide,  triglycerides,  and  cholesterol  (total,  HDL-cholesterol,  and  LDL-
cholesterol.  Comparisons  between  placebo  plus  insulin  and  each  of  the  2  pioglitazone  plus  insulin 
treatment  groups,  with  respect  to  changes  in  the  primary  and  secondary  variables,  were  performed 
using the Dunnett test with estimates of means and variances obtained from a 2-way ANCOVA model. 
A total of 566 patients were randomly assigned to treatment and included in the ITT population. Mean 
age at Baseline was 57 years, and mean BMI was 33.6 kg/m2. Most patients were Caucasian (73%), 
and slightly more than half (53%) were female. Baseline systolic blood pressure was slightly higher 
for  the  groups  who  received  pioglitazone  plus  insulin  than  for  the  group  who  received  placebo  plus 
insulin, but there were no differences among the treatment groups with respect to any other baseline 
variable. 
Results 
All treatment groups had statistically significant mean decreases from Baseline in HbA1c throughout 
the  study,  and  both  groups  of  patients  who  received  pioglitazone  plus  insulin  had  a  statistically 
significantly greater reduction in HbA1c than the group of patients who received placebo plus insulin. 
At Endpoint (Week 16), those who received 15 mg of pioglitazone plus insulin had a mean reduction 
in  HbA1c  that  was  0.73%  (95%  CI,  -100,  -0.47)  beyond  that  observed  in  the  placebo  plus  insulin 
group, and the group who received 30 mg of pioglitazone plus insulin had a reduction that was 1.00% 
(95% CI, -1.27, -0.74) beyond that observed with placebo plus insulin. The reduction in HbA1c levels 
was  reflected  in  the  number  of  HbA1c  responders,  as  31.6%  of  the  patients  who  received  placebo, 
69.5% who received 15 mg of pioglitazone, and 75.1% who received 30 mg of pioglitazone exhibited 
3/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a 0.6 percentage point decrease in HbA1c, a reduction in HbA1c to a level of 6.1% or lower, or both, 
without requiring an increase in daily insulin dose of 25% or more.  
PNFP-343: Dose Comparison of Pioglitazone (30 mg and 45 mg) as an Add-on to Insulin 
Study Design 
This was a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study of the safety and efficacy of a combination of 
30 or 45 mg of pioglitazone and insulin when given to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose 
glucose levels were poorly controlled by their current insulin therapy. Patients who participated in this 
study were at least 18 years of age, had an HbA1c value greater than or equal to 8.0%, and were on a 
stable, fixed dose (at least 30 units/day) of insulin for at least 30 days before the study. 
The primary efficacy variable was HbA1c. The  secondary efficacy variables were HbA1c responder 
rate defined as a percentage of patients meeting a clinically relevant target value, FPG, FPG responder 
rate,  and  serum  lipids  (ie,  triglycerides,  total  cholesterol,  HDL  cholesterol,  LDL  cholesterol,  and 
VLDL cholesterol, and free fatty acids (FFA). A total of 345 patients were randomly assigned to each 
treatment arm, for a total of 690 patients in the ITT population. The mean age for patients was 56.5 
years,  and  mean  BMI  was  33.19  kg/m2.  Approximately  two  thirds  (63.3%)  of  the  patients  were 
Caucasian,  and  slightly  more  than  half  (54.6%)  were  male.  The  mean  insulin  dose  (all  forms)  at 
Baseline for  ITT patients  was 69.2 units/day, and 27.1% of the patients reported use of  antidiabetes 
therapy  in  addition  to  insulin.  There  were  no  major  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  with 
regard to any of the baseline variables. 
Results 
The  improvements  in  glycaemic  control  observed  in  this  study  occurred  in  concert  with  overall 
reductions in insulin use by both treatment groups. Statistically significant difference from Baseline in 
insulin use were first observed at Week 4 for the 45 mg treatment group and at Week 8 for the 30 mg 
treatment group. The reductions were maintained throughout the remainder of the study, and there was 
a  4.5  and  7.3  U/d  reduction  with  30  mg  and  45  mg  of  pioglitazone,  respectively,  at  Endpoint.  The 
reduction in insulin dose was statistically significantly greater in the 45 mg treatment group at all time 
points. 
GLAT: Long-Term Comparison of Pioglitazone (30 mg) with Placebo as Add-on to Insulin 
Study Design 
This was a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the safety and efficacy 
of a combination of 30 mg of pioglitazone plus insulin compared with placebo plus insulin when given 
to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Patients who participated in this study were 30 to 70 years of 
age, had an HbA1c of 7.5% or higher at study entry, and were on insulin therapy (with or without oral 
antidiabetes medications) for 3 months or longer. The duration of double-blind treatment was up to 1 
year. 
The primary efficacy variable was change from Baseline in HbA1c after 6 months of treatment. The 
primary efficacy measure was analysed using an ANCOVA model. The secondary efficacy variables 
were  changes  from  Baseline  at  1  year  for  HbA1c  and  after  6  and  1  year  for  FPG,  fasting  serum  C-
peptide, fasting serum lipids (total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides), 
FFA  levels,  urinary  albumin/creatinine  ratio,  plasminogen  activator  inhibitor-1  (PAI-1),  C-reactive 
protein, insulin dose, and rate of hypoglycaemia. 
There were 308 patients who entered the insulin optimisation period, and there were 288 who entered 
the double-blind treatment period and were included in the ITT dataset. Of these patients,  163 were 
female  and  125  were  male.  The  mean  age  was  58.9  years,  and  the  mean  BMI  was  32.1±4.9  kg/m2. 
Most patients (96.5%) were Caucasian, and the mean duration of diabetes was 13.5 years. The mean 
HbA1c at Baseline of the treatment period was 8.8% in each treatment group, and mean FPG was 11.7 
mmol/L for the pioglitazone group and 11.5 mmol/L for the placebo group, suggesting that the study 
population  was  not  attaining  adequate  control  of  glycaemia  with  insulin  alone  during  the  insulin 
4/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
optimisation period. There were no statistically significant differences between the treatment groups in 
any of these baseline characteristics. 
Results 
Despite  the  3-month  insulin  optimisation  period,  during  which  efforts  were  made  to  optimize  each 
patient’s  glycaemic  control,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  treatment  groups 
after the 1-year treatment period with respect to mean change from Baseline in HbA1c. After 6 months 
the mean reduction in HbA1c was 0.69 for the pioglitazone group and 0.14 for the placebo group, and 
this difference was statistically significant (P<0.0001). After 1 year, the mean reduction in HbA1c was 
0.58 for the pioglitazone group and 0.13 for the placebo group, a difference that was also statistically 
significant  (P=0.0001).  The  reduction  in  HbA1c  that  occurred  with  treatment  of  pioglitazone  plus 
insulin  was  0.45  percentage  points  beyond  that  observed  with  placebo  plus  insulin.  In  addition,  the 
reductions  in  HbA1c  and  FPG  that  occurred  with  pioglitazone  plus  insulin  treatment  represented 
statistically significant decreases from Baseline. The improvements in glycaemic control observed in 
the pioglitazone plus insulin group occurred in concert with a mean reduction in insulin use of 11.4 
U/day.  This  reduction  was  a  significant  change  from  Baseline  and  significantly  different  from  what 
occurred in the placebo plus insulin group, which increased insulin use by 4.1 U/day. 
PROactive -PROspective PioglitAzone Clinical Trial In MacroVascular Events 
This  study  was  a  prospective,  randomised,  double-blind,  multicentre,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-
group  phase  3b  study  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  and  pre-existing  macrovascular  disease.  Male 
and  female  patients  with  a  diagnosis  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus,  between  35  and  75 years  old  were 
screened  for  eligibility  based  on  results  of  a  medical  history,  physical  examination,  and  laboratory 
assessment  of  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  and  glycosylated  hemoglobin  (HbA1c).  Patients  who 
met  eligibility  criteria  and  provided  written  informed  consent  were  randomized  to  treatment  with 
either pioglitazone or matching placebo.  
The study was conducted in 321 clinical sites across 19 European countries. 
Study Participants  
A  total  of  5238  subjects  (mean  age  of  62  years),  66%  of  whom  were  male  and  33%  female,  were 
randomly assigned to treatment; 93% of subjects completed the study. Subjects were required to have 
1 or more of 6 qualifying criteria of macrovascular disease (entry criteria: myocardial infarction (MI); 
Stroke;  percutaneous  coronary  intervention  (PCI)  or  coronary  artery  bypass  graft  (CABG);  Acute 
coronary  syndrome;  Objective  evidence  of  Coronary  artery  disease  (CAD)  or  Peripheral  arterial 
obstructive  disease).  Nearly  half  of  the  population  had  a  history  of  MI  and  almost  20%  had  had  a 
stroke. Almost 48% of subjects fulfilled 2 or more entry criteria. 
Patients were randomly assigned to receive either pioglitazone or placebo in addition to any existing 
therapy  (including  diet  and  exercise  and  antidiabetic  agents  (including  insulin),  antihypertensives, 
lipid-lowering agents, and antithrombotic agents) over a treatment period of 2.5 to 4 years. It was a  
5/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
forced  titration  study,  with  the  objective  of  maintaining  patients  on  the  maximum  tolerated  dose  of 
study medication. All patients in the pioglitazone treatment group began treatment at the 15 mg once-
a-day (QD) dose and then, based on tolerability, the dose was increased stepwise to 30 mg QD at Visit 
2 (Month 1), and 45 mg QD at Visit 3 (Month 2). 
Objectives 
The study objectives were: Primary, to demonstrate that pioglitazone (15 to 45 mg qd) reduces total 
mortality and macrovascular morbidity in high-risk patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, compared to 
placebo.  And  secondary,  to  further  characterize  the  safety  of  pioglitazone  in  this  group  of  type  2 
diabetes patients. 
All-cause mortality 
Non-fatal MI (including silent MI) 
Acute coronary syndrome 
Cardiac intervention including CABG or PCI 
Stroke 
Major leg amputation (above ankle) 
Bypass surgery or revascularization of the leg 
•  Outcomes/endpoints for efficacy assessment 
Primary Endpoint 
The primary endpoint for the study was the following composite: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The  primary  endpoint  was  analyzed  to  test  the  null  hypothesis:  Pioglitazone  is  no  different  from 
placebo  in  reducing  total  mortality  and  macrovascular  morbidity  in  high-risk  patients  with  type  2 
diabetes  mellitus.  All  events  that  potentially  constituted  an  event  within  the  primary  endpoint 
composite  were  adjudicated  centrally.  Analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint  only  considered  endpoints 
confirmed  through  the  Endpoint  Adjudication  Process.  An  analysis  based  on  investigator  diagnosis 
was not planned or conducted. 
Secondary Endpoints 
The following secondary endpoints, in order of priority, were pre-specified in the Statistical Analysis 
Plan: 
• 
Time to the first occurrence of any of: death from any cause, non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI), 
stroke. 
Time to cardiovascular death. 
The individual components of the primary endpoint. 
• 
• 
All  fatal  events  were  classified  as  cardiovascular  unless  there  was  a  clear  noncardiovascular  cause. 
This  classification  was  carried  out  through  the  Endpoint  Adjudication  Process.  For  the  analysis  of 
cardiovascular  mortality,  time  to  death  for  a  non-cardiovascular  death  was  treated  as  a  censored 
observation. 
Subgroup  analysis  of  secondary  endpoints  was  not  envisaged;  however,  the  following  comparisons 
were of interest and pre-specified: 
• 
Treatment differences by prior history of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) (yes/no) for the 
endpoints: 
Time to the first occurrence of any of: cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI), 
stroke. 
Time to the first occurrence of any of: cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI). 
Time to the first occurrence of any of: fatal or non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI). 
Treatment differences by prior stoke (yes/no) for the endpoints. 
Time to the first occurrence of any of: cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI), 
stroke. 
Time to the first occurrence of any of: cardiovascular death, stroke. 
Time to the first occurrence of any stroke. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
6/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
Additional Analyses of Interest 
The following measures of interest were believed, a priori, to be variables where differences between 
the study treatments may be observed: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The primary endpoint excluding silent MI 
The composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI), and stroke 
The composite endpoint of cardiovascular death and non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI) 
Time to MI (excluding silent MI) 
Cause of death 
Time  to  start  of  permanent  insulin  use  (in  patients  not  receiving  insulin  at  the  time  of 
randomization) 
Transient Ischaemic Attack (TIA) 
Treatment with retinal photocoagulation 
Carotid intervention 
Use of antihypertensive medication, lipid-lowering medication, oral antidiabetic medication 
Glycemic control: A1C 
Degree of microalbuminuria (Micral test) 
Lipids:  HDL  cholesterol,  LDL  cholesterol,  triglycerides,  ratio  of  LDL  cholesterol  /  HDL 
cholesterol 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Additionally, study treatments were compared with respect to: 
• 
• 
• 
Number of hospitalizations (hospitalization for any cause except compassionate stay) 
Total number of days in hospital (hospitalization for any cause except compassionate stay) 
Number of days in high dependency units 
Diagnosis and Main Criteria for Inclusion 
To qualify for study participation, subjects must have had a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus; been 
between  35  to  75 years  of  age,  inclusive;  were  able  to  comprehend  and  willing  to  sign  an  informed 
consent form; had a value of A1C above the upper limit of normal (ULN) as determined by the local 
laboratory  at  Screening  or  at  any  time  in  the  previous  2  months,  and  had  an  established  history  of 
macrovascular disease defined as 1 or more of the following: MI at least 6 months before entry into 
the study; stroke at least 6 months before entry into the study; PCI or CABG at least 6 months before 
entry into the study; acute coronary syndrome at least 3 months before entry into the study; objective 
evidence  of  coronary  artery  disease  including  any  1  of  the  following:  a  positive  exercise  test, 
angiography showing at least 1 lesion of more than 50% stenosis of positive scintigraphy at any time 
prior to entry into the study; or symptomatic peripheral arterial obstructive disease.  
Results 
•  Baseline data 
The  study  population  was  predominantly  Caucasian  (99%).  Means  (SD)  for  other  baseline  variables 
were: duration of diabetes, 9.5 (7.02) years; weight, 88.0 (15.57) kg; BMI, 30.9 (4.76) kg/m2; waist 
circumference,  105.2  (11.90)  cm;  SBP,  143.4  (17.77)  mm  Hg;  DBP,  83.0  (9.70)  mm  Hg;  and  ankle 
blood  pressure,  133.2  (34.65)  mm  Hg.  Demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  did  not  differ 
significantly  between  treatment  groups.  A  history  of  cardiovascular  disease  was  reported  for  95% 
patients, of these 47% had a history of MI, 57.5% had a history of angina, and 75% had a history of 
hypertension.  A  total  of  59%  of  patients  were  current  or  past  smokers,  24%  had  a  history  of 
claudication, and 19% had suffered a prior stroke. A history of retinopathy was reported by 23% of 
patients with 28.5% of these patients having received photocoagulation treatment, 14% of patients had 
a  history  of  nephropathy,  and  26%  had  a  history  of  neuropathy.  Abnormalities  detected  on  physical 
examination  were  reported  for  55%  of  patients,  with  the  highest  percentages  of  abnormalities 
involving the skin and nervous system (18% for each). No significant differences in physical findings 
were  detected  between  treatment  groups.  There  were  no  differences  between  treatment  groups  in 
Baseline laboratory values for HbA1C and lipid levels. At Baseline, 34% of patients were receiving 
insulin therapy (average 46.6 units per day) in combination with metformin, sulphonylurea, or other 
agents, 61% were receiving metformin, and 61.5% were receiving sulphonylurea. The pattern of usage 
with respect to mono- or multiple therapies was similar between treatment groups. Similar proportions 
of  patients  in  either  treatment  group  were  receiving  monotherapy  with  metformin  (10%)  or 
7/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
sulphonylurea (19%) or dual therapy with metformin and sulphonylurea (25%). Approximately 30% 
of  patients  in  either  treatment  group  were  receiving  insulin  with  or  without  oral  antidiabetes 
medication. At baseline, median HbA1c values were 7.8% in the pioglitazone group and 7.9% in the 
placebo group. 
•  Efficacy Results 
Results of the primary composite endpoint analysis showed a 10% relative risk reduction of the first 
events within the composite for the pioglitazone-treated patients. The Cox proportional hazards model 
gave an estimate of 0.90 for the hazard ratio comparing pioglitazone with placebo, which did not reach 
statistical  significance  (95%  CI:  0.80,  1.02;  P=0.0954).  However,  within  the  primary  composite 
endpoint,  fewer  disease  endpoints  (ie,  all-cause  mortality,  non-fatal  MI  [excluding  silent  MI],  silent 
MI,  stroke,  and  ACS)  were  observed  in  the  pioglitazone  group,  whereas  the  number  of  procedural 
endpoints (cardiac intervention, major leg amputation, leg revascularization) varied between treatment 
groups.  The  only  first  event  that  occurred  more  frequently  in  the  pioglitazone  group  was  leg 
revascularization.  Overall,  there  were  fewer  total  endpoint  events  in  the  pioglitazone  group  (803) 
compared with placebo (900). 
Results of the analysis of the main secondary composite endpoint, a composite of 3 disease endpoints 
of  the  primary  endpoint  (ie,  all-cause  mortality,  non-fatal  MI  [excluding  silent  MI],  and  stroke) 
showed a statistically significant 16% relative risk reduction of the events within the composite with 
pioglitazone treatment. The Cox proportional hazards model gave an estimate of 0.84 (95% CI: 0.72, 
0.98; P=0.0277) for the hazard ratio comparing pioglitazone with placebo. The results of the primary 
and main secondary endpoints were not affected by adjustment of significant Baseline covariates in a 
multivariate model. 
Subgroup  analyses  were  performed  on  several  pre-specified  subgroups  based  on  demographics, 
medical  history,  entry  criteria,  Baseline  laboratory  values,  and  Baseline  medications.  The  trend  of 
benefit  with  pioglitazone  on  the  primary  and  main  secondary  composite  endpoints  appeared  to  be 
consistent across the subgroups. 
Additional endpoints were analyzed for the highest risk patients, those with prior MI or prior stroke. 
Pioglitazone showed a consistent trend of benefit over placebo among patients with prior MI for the 
time  to  the  first  occurrence  of  cardiovascular  death,  non-fatal  MI  (excluding  silent  MI),  or  stroke; 
cardiovascular death or non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI); and fatal or non-fatal MI (excluding silent 
MI). For patients with prior stroke, again pioglitazone showed consistent benefit over placebo for the 
time  to  the  first  occurrence  of  cardiovascular  death,  non-fatal  MI  (excluding  silent  MI),  or  stroke; 
cardiovascular death or stroke; and fatal or non-fatal stroke. 
The  analyses  of  the  other  secondary  endpoints  including  the  time  to  first  event  of  the  individual 
components  of  the  primary  composite  endpoint  and  cardiovascular  mortality  showed  no  statistically 
significant differences between treatment groups, which was not unexpected because of the relatively 
smaller number of events for each component. Nevertheless, there were a fewer number of events of 
allcause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal MI, ACS, cardiac intervention, and stroke in the 
pioglitazone  group  compared  with  placebo.  In  contrast,  the  incidence  of  major  leg  amputation  was 
equal and the incidence of leg revascularization was numerically higher in the pioglitazone group. 
Additional “measures of interest” including the composite endpoints of cardiovascular mortality, non-
fatal  MI  (excluding  silent  MI),  or  stroke  and  fatal  or  non-fatal  MI  (excluding  silent  MI)  showed 
statistically significant relative risk reductions of 18% and 23%, respectively, for pioglitazone-treated 
patients.  The  composite  endpoints  including  the  primary  endpoint  excluding  silent  MI  and 
cardiovascular  mortality  or  non-fatal  MI  (excluding  silent  MI)  were  also  evaluated  and  resulted  in 
relative risk reductions of 10% and 14%, respectively for pioglitazone-treated patients, although these 
reductions  were  not  statistically  significant.  Other  additional  measures  of  interest  including  deaths 
caused  by  MI,  hospitalizations  (including  ICU/CCU  admissions),  and  events  of  transient  ischemic 
attack were fewer in the pioglitazone group. Generally, no treatment group differences were seen for 
overall  adjudicated  causes  of  death,  treatment  with  retinal  photocoagulation,  and  degree  of 
microalbuminuria. 
8/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  composite  endpoints  of  all-cause  mortality,  MI  (excluding  silent  MI),  stroke,  or  ACS  and  of 
cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal MI (excluding silent MI), stroke, or ACS were evaluated. Results 
of  these  post-hoc  analyses  for  pioglitazone-treated  patients  were  consistent  with  those  seen  for  the 
main  secondary  endpoint  showing  statistically  significant  risk  reductions  of  17%  and  20%, 
respectively, for these composite endpoints. 
Insulin therapy increased  markedly by Final Visit in the placebo  group, while only a slight increase 
was  seen  in  the  pioglitazone  group.  Furthermore,  the  time  to  permanent  insulin  therapy  was 
significantly delayed with pioglitazone treatment, as the number of patients progressing to insulin was 
50% lower in the pioglitazone group compared with placebo (P<0.0001). There was a slight decrease 
in  metformin  use  over  the  course  of  the  study  in  the  pioglitazone  group,  while  metformin  use 
increased  slightly  in  the  placebo  group.  The  use  of  lipid-lowering  and  antihypertensive  medications 
increased  similarly  in  both  treatment  groups,  while  the  use  of  loop  diuretics  increased  more  in  the 
pioglitazone group than in the placebo group. 
Other measures of pharmacological effect included glycemic control and lipid parameters. While A1C 
was  reduced  in  both  treatment  groups,  the  reduction  was  statistically  significantly  greater  in  the 
pioglitazone  group.  Pioglitazone  also  significantly  reduced  triglycerides  and  increased  HDL 
cholesterol levels in comparison with placebo. Levels of LDL cholesterol were significantly increased 
in the pioglitazone group compared with placebo; however, the ratio of LDL to HDL cholesterol was 
significantly decreased for pioglitazone compared with placebo throughout the study. 
Glycaemic and Lipid Effects  
At study entry, the vast majority of patients were receiving drug therapy for various cardiovascular-
related  diseases.  The  study  protocol  specified  that  medications  administered  to  treat  underlying 
cardiovascular  disease  were  to  be  optimized.  Consequently,  the  use  and  doses  of  such  medications 
changed  throughout  the  study.  Overall,  there  was  an  increased  use  of  lipid-lowering  therapy  (11% 
increase  in  the  pioglitazone  and  10%  increase  in  the  placebo  group)  and  cardiovascular  medication 
(1% increase in pioglitazone and 2% increase in placebo). Throughout the study, patients were to be 
treated  to  target  for  HbA1c  levels.  Since  concomitant  oral  anti-diabetes  drugs  and  insulin  treatment 
were  increased,  HbA1c  levels  decreased  over  a  3-year  period  in  the  placebo  group.  However,  this 
treatment  was  still  not  as  effective  as  adding  pioglitazone  to  the  regimen.  At  final  visit,  the  mean 
reduction  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  was  0.9%  with  pioglitazone  and  0.4%  with  placebo.  While  the 
treatment-group difference of 0.5% in the mean HbA1c reduction was statistically significant, it likely 
cannot entirely explain the cardiovascular benefit noted for pioglitazone. In addition to improvements 
in  glycaemia,  pioglitazone  significantly  improved  lipid  parameters  compared  to  placebo,  despite  the 
similar use of lipid-lowering therapy in both treatment groups. These improvements included reduced 
triglycerides  and  LDL/HDL  cholesterol  ratio  and  increased  HDL-cholesterol  levels.  Both  treatments 
increased LDLcholesterol levels, but more so in the pioglitazone group such that the treatment-group 
difference was statistically significant.  
2.2  Clinical safety 
The safety evaluation in the current submission is based mainly on two previously submitted clinical 
trial  reports  (PNFP-014  and  PNFP-343)  and  one  newly  submitted  clinical  trial  report  (GLAT). 
Cumulatively,  more  than  1500  patients  were  studied  in  these  studies,  in  which  more  than  1200 
received pioglitazone and insulin. In addition to the studies mentioned above, this submission includes 
data from 1700 patients at high risk for a macrovascular event enrolled in the cardiovascular outcome 
study  EC444.  These  patients,  who  entered  the  study receiving  insulin  therapy  with  or  without  other 
oral anti-diabetes drugs, formed a large proportion of the total population of over 5200 patients studied 
for a minimum of 2.5 years and up to 3.5 years. 
9/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Extent of Exposure 
Studies of Pioglitazone When Used in Combination with Insulin for glycaemic control 
A  summary  of  exposure  to  pioglitazone  plus  insulin  combination  therapy  during  studies  PNFP-014, 
PNFP-343, and GLAT is provided in Table 2. A total of 1545 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
received at least 1 dose of study drug during these 3 studies. Of this total, 1211 received pioglitazone 
plus insulin. 
In  studies  PNFP-014  and  GLAT,  a  high  percentage  of  patients  who  received  either  treatment 
completed the studies (between 81% and 92% of patients who received pioglitazone plus insulin and 
between 87% and 89% of patients who received placebo plus insulin). A slightly higher withdrawal 
rate was observed during PNFP-343, as approximately 30% of the patients in both treatment groups 
were withdrawn. Unlike the dosing guidance in the SPC, this study used a fixed-dose regimen of 30 
and 45 mg pioglitazone rather than a titration to maximum effect dosing schedule. 
Table 2: Summary of Exposure to Pioglitazone When Used in Combination with Insulin 
Demographic and Baseline Characteristics for Pioglitazone and Insulin Combination Therapy 
Studies 
The  results  show  high  incidences  of  concomitant  disease  and  concomitant  medication  use,  which  is 
typical  for  a  population  of  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus.  There  was  a  high  proportion  of 
concomitant  vascular  disorders,  other metabolic  and  nutritional disorders,  cardiac  disorders,  and  eye 
disorders. Gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, nervous system, and reproductive system disorders were 
also  common.  The  most  frequently  reported  previous  and  concomitant  medications  reflected  the 
concomitant  disorders,  and  were  consistent  with  those  reported  across  other  clinical  trials  with 
pioglitazone.  Major  differences  across  studies  with  respect  to  use  of  previous  and  concomitant 
medications were mainly due to study-specific methods of data collection (ie, different classification 
schemes) or study procedures (eg, the high rate of use of ophthalmological agents in PNFP-014 was 
likely due to the retinal examination completed at the beginning of the study). However, within each 
study, medication use was balanced across treatment groups. 
PROactive study 
The data that are presented here include only the subset of patients who were taking insulin in addition 
to assigned study medication (pioglitazone or placebo) at the beginning of study EC444. Patients may 
also  have  been  taking  OADs,  such  as  metformin  or  a  sulphonylurea,  at  the  same  time.  Of  the  5238 
patients included in the total study population, 1760 (33.6%) were receiving insulin at Baseline, and 
10/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the use of insulin was well balanced between the treatment groups. Within this on-insulin cohort, 864 
of  these  patients  were  in  the  pioglitazone  group  and  896  were  in  the  placebo  group.  Duration  of 
treatment  with  study  drug  for  the  cohort  of  patients  who  were  taking  insulin  at  Baseline  was  not 
summarised separately within the EC444 CTR. Mean length of exposure to study medication for the 
entire study population was 908.2 days in the pioglitazone group and 909.6 days in the placebo group. 
Demographic and Baseline Characteristics  
The  baseline  characteristics  of  EC444  describe  a  more  severely  ill  patient  population  than  that 
involved  in  the  glycaemic  efficacy  studies.  They  reflect  the  multiple  comorbidities  associated  with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus as well as the study’s entry criteria, which required patients to have at least 1 
of 6 macrovascular diseases or conditions. Almost half of the patients had a history of 2 or more of the 
6 conditions. In addition, there was a high incidence of concomitant hypertension and angina. Mean 
duration of diabetes for baseline insulin users (13 years) was approximately 3 to 4 years longer than 
for the total study population. 
Baseline medication use was commensurate with the conditions and diseases reported. 
More than 80% of patients were taking antiplatelet medications, and ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers 
were each reported by more than half of the patients. The use of ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics was 
slightly higher in the on-insulin cohort than in the full study population. At Baseline, ACE inhibitors 
were used by 69% of the on-insulin cohort and 63% of the full study population, while loop diuretics 
were  used  by  18%  and  14%  of  each  population,  respectively.  Within  the  on-insulin  cohort, 
cardiovascular medication use was similar between treatment groups at Baseline. 
Antidiabetes  regimens  principally  consisted  of 
in  combination  with  metformin,  a 
sulphonylurea, or both, and use of baseline insulin was well balanced between treatment groups. Since 
antidiabetes  medications  were  adjusted  throughout  the  study,  there  was  a  gradual  shift  in  treatment 
regimens:  A  small  proportion  of  pioglitazone-treated  patientscould  eventually  stop  taking  insulin, 
whereas  more  than  10%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  had  to  start  taking  permanent  insulin 
treatment. Despite this, the analysis based on insulin use at Baseline is still meaningful. 
insulin 
ADVERSE EVENTS 
AE Data from Pioglitazone and Insulin Combination Therapy Studies 
The combination of pioglitazone and insulin was well tolerated both in short-term studies and in the 1-
year study. The AEs that were consistently reported at higher rates with pioglitazone than with placebo 
treatment were oedema and weight increase. The overall incidence of oedema was approximately 2 to 
3 times greater than that reported for placebo. 
Hypoglycaemia  occurred  at  high  incidences  in  all  3  studies,  including  the  placebo  groups.  In  the  1-
year GLAT study, hypoglycaemia was reported for 21.8% of patients receiving placebo plus insulin, 
compared  with  32.4%  of  those  receiving  pioglitazone  plus  insulin.  However,  hypoglycaemia  was 
rarely treatment limiting and there no fatal events. 
Few deaths occurred in any of these studies, and their causes suggested no effect of pioglitazone. The 
reporting rates of SAEs were similar between 30 mg and 45 mg pioglitazone, and also were similar in 
both  placebo-controlled  studies  (PNFP-014  and  GLAT)  between  pioglitazone-treated  patients  and 
placebo patients. 
Over treatment periods of up to 1 year, overall discontinuation rates due to AEs with the pioglitazone 
and insulin combination were consistent with the overall incidences of common AEs. In PNFP-343, 
hypoglycaemia,  hyperglycaemia,  and  lower  limb  oedema  were  the  most  common  AEs  leading  to 
withdrawal; in GLAT, weight increased was the most common. 
AE Data from PROactive study 
In the on-insulin cohort, a total of 77 (8.9%) patients in the pioglitazone group and 79 (8.8%) in the 
placebo group died during the study, and the causes of death did not suggest an effect of pioglitazone. 
11/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of  the  prespecified  events  of  special  interest,  the  most  frequently  reported  primary  causes  of  death 
were within the category of cardiac ischaemia, and more patients in the placebo group died from these 
events (2.5% vs 1.9%). There were no other important differences between the treatment groups with 
respect to the number of deaths attributed to any other preferred term or category of special interest. 
In  general,  there  was  a  higher  incidence  of  AEs  in  the  on-insulin  cohort,  but  this  increase  was 
observed for both the pioglitazone and placebo-treated patients. This higher incidence could be due to 
the  more  severe  underlying  disease  state  for  patients  within  the  on-insulin  cohort  and  is  not 
unexpected. With respect to serious heart failure, oedema, and hypoglycaemia the relative increase in 
reports of these events was not greater for the insulin-treated patients than for those patients who were 
not treated with insulin. Therefore, the use of pioglitazone in combination with insulin does not appear 
to amplify the risk for adverse reactions. 
SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENTS AND DEATHS 
Pioglitazone and Insulin Combination Therapy Studies 
Overall, the data do not suggest any increased risk for SAEs within a particular SOC with pioglitazone 
when  added  to  insulin  therapy.  In  general,  as  would  be  expected,  the  highest  incidences  of  SAEs 
occurred  in  the  1-year  GLAT  study,  and  in  that  study  the  overall  incidence  of  SAEs  was  similar 
between the pioglitazone and placebo groups (13.6% vs 13.4%, respectively). 
Deaths 
In the pioglitazone and insulin combination therapy studies, 6 deaths occurred. The causes of deaths 
were principally cardiovascular in aetiology, as might be expected in a population of patients with type 
2 diabetes mellitus. There was no individual death suggestive of any toxic effect of pioglitazone, and 
there was no overall increased risk of death with treatment of pioglitazone in the 1-year GLAT study. 
PROactive  Study 
There  was  a  higher  incidence  of  SAEs  for  the  on-insulin  cohort  overall,  but  this  higher  rate  was 
consistent for both the pioglitazone and placebo groups when compared with the non-insulin cohort. 
The  higher  overall  rate  of  SAEs  within  the  on-insulin  cohort  could  be  due  to  the  more  severe 
underlying  disease  state  of  these  patients  and  is  not  unexpected.  Within  the  on-insulin  cohort,  the 
incidence  of  SAEs  was  slightly  higher  for  the  placebo  group,  and  this  difference  was  more  marked 
than that observed for the overall study population. 
The  incidence  of  myocardial  infarction  was  higher  for  the  on-insulin  cohort  compared  to  the  non-
insulin cohort, but there were fewer events reported for pioglitazone-treated patients in both of these 
subgroups. Pneumonia was reported more frequently in the pioglitazone group for both the on-insulin 
and  non-insulin  cohorts.  Overall,  most  of  the  serious  cases  of  hyperglycaemia  were  reported  for 
placebo-treated patients in the noninsulin group, whereas most cases of hypoglycaemia were reported 
for  pioglitazone  treated  patients  in  the  on-insulin  cohort.  These  2  findings  are  not  unexpected  and 
likely  reflect  tighter  glucose  control  for  patients  in  the  pioglitazone  group.  The  incidences  of 
cerebrovascular  accident  were  higher  in  the  on-insulin  cohort  for  both  treatments,  particularly  for 
placebo-treated patients.  
The overall incidence of serious heart failure was slightly higher for the on-insulin cohort that for the 
non-insulin cohort. The increase in reports of serious heart failure with treatment of pioglitazone was 
not greater than that seen in the non-insulin cohort 
Deaths 
There was a higher incidence of fatal SAEs for the on-insulin cohort overall, but this higher rate was 
consistent for both the pioglitazone and placebo groups. 
As a result, the incidence of fatal SAEs within the on-insulin cohort was similar for both treatments. 
The  higher  overall  rate  of  fatal  SAEs  within  the  on-insulin  cohort  could  be  due  to  the  more  severe 
underlying disease state for patients and is not unexpected. In general, however, the higher incidence 
12/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was consistent for both treatment groups, and the proportion of patients who died because of each fatal 
SAE was similar for both pioglitazone and placebo-treated patients. The maximum difference between 
treatment groups in the on-insulin cohort was 0.5 percentage points, which was seen for both sudden 
cardiac death and sudden death. 
Myocardial  infarction  was  the  primary  cause  of  death  for  slightly  more  placebo  patients  than 
pioglitazone  patients  (1.9%  vs  1.5%).  No  other  preferred  term  was  represented  by  a  difference  of 
greater than 0.2% between treatment groups within the on-insulin cohort. 
Importantly, the relative difference between treatment groups with respect to the incidences of deaths 
attributed to each individual category of special interest were very similar to the differences observed 
for the non-insulin cohort. In the on-insulin cohort, the most frequently reported causes of death were 
within the special interest category of cardiac ischaemia, and a slightly greater proportion of patients 
in the placebo group died from these events, as was true for the full study population. There was no 
difference between the treatment groups with respect to the proportion of patients who died of heart 
failure. 
LABORATORY FINDINGS 
Pioglitazone and Insulin Combination Therapy Studies 
Small decreases in mean haemoglobin and haematocrit levels were observed in short-term studies with 
pioglitazone plus insulin. Similar decreases were observed over 1 year of treatment. 
There was no increased risk of liver toxicity when pioglitazone was added to insulin as evidenced by 
consistent  decreases  in  ALT  and  AST  during  all  3  pioglitazone  and  insulin  combination  therapy 
studies.  Analyses  of  changes  in  individual  patients  showed  no  excess  of  pioglitazone  patients  with 
changes to >3 times the ULN in liver enzymes compared with placebo over up to 1 year of treatment. 
No  patients  in  Study  PNFP-014  or  PNFP-343  had  a  markedly  abnormal  LDH  value  postbaseline 
value. In these 2 studies, the incidence of markedly abnormal CPK values ranged from 2.1% to 9.0%, 
with a corresponding incidence of 2.7% for placebo in PNFP-014. 
No negative effects of pioglitazone on variables reflecting renal function were found. 
PROactive Study 
The EC444 CTR contains a complete description of the results of laboratory evaluations in the overall 
study population. No subgroup analyses of laboratory results were done for the population of patients 
taking insulin in addition to pioglitazone or placebo. 
In the overall study population, no deleterious effects on liver function were seen with pioglitazone. 
Incidences of high ALT, AST, or alkaline phosphatase values were low in both groups, and very few 
patients in either group had elevations to 3 times the ULN in either variable. Compared with placebo, 
pioglitazone patients showed a trend toward normalisation of high liver function values from Baseline 
to the Final Visit. 
The effects on renal function, as assessed through creatinine measurements, were not distinguishable 
between pioglitazone and placebo in this study. 
DISCONTINUATION DUE TO AES 
Pioglitazone and Insulin Combination Therapy Studies 
Other Significant AEs 
The  most  common  event  terms  were  hypoglycaemia,  hyperglycaemia,  weight  increased,  lower  limb 
oedema,  and  congestive  cardiac  failure.  Incidences  were  higher  in  the  longer  of  the  two  studies 
(PNFP-343). In the placebo-controlled study, overall incidences were slightly higher for the 2 doses of 
pioglitazone (2.6% and 3.2%) than for placebo (1.6%). 
13/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During  GLAT,  15  (10.6%)  patients  receiving  pioglitazone  and  5  (3.4%)  patients  receiving  placebo 
discontinued  the  study  because  of  an  AE.  The  most  common  non-serious  events  leading  to 
discontinuation  were  increased  weight  (4  pioglitazone  patients  and  1  placebo  patient),  peripheral 
oedema  (2  pioglitazone  patients),  dyspnoea  (2  pioglitazone  patients),  and  pulmonary  congestion  (2 
pioglitazone  patients).  Of  the  nonfatal.  Three  SAEs  led  to  discontinuation—2  in  the  pioglitazone 
group  (exertional  dyspnoea  and  acute  coronary  syndrome)  and  1  in  the  placebo  group  (tremor).  Of 
these  3,  only  the  case  of  exertional  dyspnoea  was  considered  to  be  related  to  study  drug.  Only  the 
event of exertional dyspnoea was considered to be related to study drug. 
PROactive Study 
Other Significant AEs 
Oedema occurred more often in the on-insulin cohort than in the non-insulin cohort and was reported 
more frequently in the pioglitazone group than in the placebo group. The relative difference between 
treatment groups was the same for both the on-insulin and non-insulin cohorts. 
Hypoglycaemia occurred more often in the on-insulin cohort than in the non-insulin cohort and was 
reported more frequently in the pioglitazone group than in the placebo group. The relative difference 
between treatment groups was the same for both the oninsulin and non-insulin cohorts. 
2.3  Discussion on clinical aspects of proposed amendments to the product information 
The Marketing Authorisation for pioglitazone was granted with a relatively restricted defined use of 
pioglitazone  for  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  that  included  a  contraindication  for  its  use  in 
combination  with  insulin.  At  that  time,  the  CHMP  had  concerns  about  thiazolidinedione  treatment 
because  of  the  absence  of  long-term  controlled  efficacy  and  safety  data  and  increased  reports  of 
certain adverse events, such as weight gain, oedema, and heart failure. 
The  present  variation  application  includes  three  studies  evaluating  the  glycaemic  efficacy  of 
pioglitazone  in  combination  with  insulin  (PNFP–014,  PNFP–027  and  GLAT)  and  data  from 
PROactive  study,  from  which  1760  patients  (approximately  one  third  of  the  total  study  population) 
were receiving insulin with or without oral anti-diabetes therapies at baseline. Within this on-insulin 
cohort, the treatment groups were well matched for demographic characteristics. As compared to the 
total study population, the cohort had a longer duration of disease (13 vs. 10 years), was slightly larger 
(mean BMIs: 32 vs. 31 kg/m2; mean weight: approximately 90vs 88 kg), and had greater mean HbA1c 
values (approximately 8.5%vs 8.1%) compared to the overall study population.  
Based on the data submitted, the MAH proposed the addition of the following therapeutic indication: 
“Pioglitazone is also indicated for combination with insulin in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with 
insufficient glycaemic control on insulin, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents.” 
And the deletion of the following contraindication: 
“Pioglitazone is also contraindicated for use in combination with insulin”. 
Discussion on efficacy aspects 
Pioglitazone  in  combination  with  insulin  produced  significantly  greater  improvements  in  glycaemia 
compared  to  insulin  alone  in  the  three  controlled  glycaemia  efficacy  and  safety  clinical  studies. 
Consistent with pioglitazone monotherapy and combination therapy studies with either metformin or 
sulphonylurea,  improvements  in  the  HDL-cholesterol  and  triglycerides  levels  were  observed  with 
pioglitazone in combination with insulin that were not observed with insulin alone. However the value 
of this effect is not absolutely clear given that the use of statins seems to have been suboptimal in this 
population.  Furthermore,  these  pioglitazone  effects  in  the  presence  of  insulin  were  confirmed  in  the 
cohort  of  patients  receiving  insulin  therapy  at  baseline  in  PROactive  study.  Pioglitazone  added  to 
14/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
baseline  insulin  regimens  showed  significantly  better  glycaemic  control  than  insulin  alone  over  a 
treatment  period  of  up  to  3.5  years  in  patients  with  long-standing  type  2  diabetes  and  significant 
underlying cardiovascular disease. The beneficial effects of pioglitazone on lipids in EC444 were in 
addition  to  those  known  to  be  associated  with  the  concomitant  lipid-lowering  medications  used  and 
adjusted throughout the study. 
Discussion on safety aspects 
The safety profile designed by the data analysed in this variation does not raise new concerns about 
what  was  known  for  pioglitazone,  in  fact  it  clears  some  of  the  worries  about  the  association  with 
insulin, despite the true risk of heart failure under the association is not completely clear.  
Adverse  events  of  oedema  and  weight  gain  were  reported  more  frequently  with  pioglitazone  in 
combination with insulin than with insulin alone.  
Within  the  cohort  of  patients  receiving  insulin  at  baseline  in  PROactive,  a  higher  reporting  rate  of 
heart failure was seen (6.3% with pioglitazone in combination with insulin vs 5.3% with insulin alone) 
compared to the total study population (5.1% vs 4.1%). Since both insulin and pioglitazone alone are 
associated with fluid retention and heart failure, the MAH was requested to comment on this issue and 
to address the benefit/risk balance of pioglitazone in combination with insulin.  
On response to this concern from the CHMP, the MAH based its arguments on supportive evidence 
from: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The  four  pivotal  studies  submitted  with  the  present  application,  in  particular  the  PROactive 
study  (including  a  time-to-event  meta-analysis  of  cardiovascular  events  and  deaths  reported 
during double-blind, randomized, comparator-controlled clinical trials of pioglitazone). 
Results  from  a  post-marketing  analysis  as  reported  in  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration-
Adverse Event Reporting System (FDA-AERS) database; 
Data  from  two  controlled  clinical  trials  (previously  submitted  to  the  CHMP),  OPI-504  and 
OPI-520,  which  have  been  completed  to  determine  the  safety  of  pioglitazone  in  patients  with 
some degree of CHF;  
Preliminary data from a recently completed double-blind, randomised, parallel group study, 01-
02-TL-OPI-518,  comparing  the  effects  of  pioglitazone  and  glimepiride  on  the  progression  of 
carotid  intima-media  thickness  (CIMT)  over  18  months  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  who 
were asymptomatic for cardiovascular disease; and, 
In PROactive a significant reduction of major cardiovascular events of all-cause mortality, stroke, and 
myocardial infarction was observed for the pioglitazone-treated group. Events of serious heart failure 
were reported more frequently in the pioglitazone group than in the placebo group; however, mortality 
was not increased in the pioglitazone-treated patients. A time-to-event analysis of serious heart failure 
in  PROactive  showed  an  increased  risk  of  such  an  event  in  the  pioglitazone  group.  However,  an 
analysis of time to first event of serious heart failure or all-cause mortality showed that there was no 
increased risk for this important outcome. 
A systematic analysis based on information contained in the Food and Drug Administration-Adverse 
Event Reporting System (FDA-AERS) database demonstrated that insulin, as well as combinations of 
metformin plus insulin plus (first- and second-generation) sulphonylurea derivatives, did not appear to 
have a synergistic interaction with regard to CHF when added to pioglitazone treatment.  
The  epidemiological  data  presented  by  the  MAH,  while  not  conclusive  in  that  some  disparities  are 
seen between the 3 studies referred to, suggest that, despite a potentially increased risk of heart failure 
with TZD treatment, the risk of subsequent mortality was not increased.  
15/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  view  of  all  these  data,  it  appears  that  combination  therapy  with  pioglitazone  and  insulin  is 
associated with an increased risk of heart failure, but not with an increase in mortality, in particular 
from the sequelae of heart failure. It should be noted that pioglitazone in the EU is contraindicated in 
patients  with  cardiac  failure  or  history  of  cardiac  failure  (NYHA  stages  I  to  IV).  The  data  reported 
from the clinical studies and from post-marketing analysis would have included patients with NYHA 
stages  I  and  II  cardiac  failure.  The  most  likely  scenario,  therefore,  within  the  European  context, 
relating  to  heart  failure  and  such  combination  therapy  would  appear  to  be  the  precipitation  of  heart 
failure  in  subjects  previously  not  diagnosed  as  having  heart  failure.  The  degree  of  heart  failure, 
however,  would  most  likely  be  mild,  and  could  be  monitored  symptomatically.  The  precipitation  of 
heart failure, however, must be viewed in the context of the overall improvement in glyaemic control 
and the absence of any increased mortality.  
The  CHMP  sought  advice  from  the  Scientific  Advisory  Group  (SAG)  for  Diabetes/Endocrinology, 
that discussed this issue during its meeting of 20 November 2006. The Group agreed that the majority 
of studies have demonstrated an increase in the overall risk of heart failure, and in the risk of severe 
heart  failure  resulting  in  hospital  admission.  In  the  light  of  evidence  from  PROactive,  the  SAG  did 
however acknowledge that this risk could in general be managed effectively with diuretic treatment. 
It was noted by the SAG that combinations of TZD and insulin are widely used in other parts of the 
world,  and  post-marketing  surveillance  in  the  USA  showed  no  evidence  of  an  excess  of  cardiac 
failure.  It  was  noted  as  well  that  occasional  patients  did  seem  to  respond  particularly  well  to 
combination therapy, and that a proportion, perhaps 5-10% of patients, were intolerant of metformin, 
which  is  widely  used  as  combination  therapy  with  insulin.  It  could  therefore  be  argued  that  such 
patients should not be denied the possibility of alternative therapy with a glitazone.  
On  the  other  hand,  it  was  acknowledged  by  the  CHMP  and  the  SAG  that  the  lack  of  head-to-head 
comparisons between metformin plus insulin vs. pioglitazone plus insulin represented a serious gap in 
the evidence base.  On this basis, and given the extra risk of heart failure and added weight gain with 
pioglitazone,  the  balance  of  advantage  must  still  rest  with  the  metformin  combination,  leaving  the 
combination with pioglitazone as a second option. 
The SAG recommendation to the CHMP was that, if the Committee would decide to approve the use 
of this combination, the following restrictions should be applied: this should be a second-line option 
with respect to metformin plus insulin, exclusion of patients with all degrees of heart failure, starting 
treatment  with  a  low  dose  of  pioglitazone  and  increasing  the  dose  gradually,  advice  to  monitor  the 
patient 
(whilst 
acknowledging  the  difficulty  of  defining  a  specialist  in  the  treatment  of  diabetes).  A  head-to-head 
study  comparing  the  combination  metformin+insulin  versus  the  combination  pioglitazone+insulin  is 
recommended before any wider indication could be considered. 
recommend  specialist  supervision  wherever  practicable 
regularly,  and 
to 
16/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
PHARMACOVIGILANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the effective use of the product. 
4. 
2. 
1. 
1. 
3. 
2. 
3. 
Heart failure 
Safety concern  Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance including 
Hepatic 
review in PSURs. 
dysfunction 
Annual review and report on Hepato-
biliary adverse events. 
Results from completed clinical trials 
for hepatic events 
Trend analysis on frequency of 
reporting. 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
continuing annual review in PSURs 
(analysis by time to onset, exposure, 
risk factors, concomitant medication 
including insulin). 
Analysis from ongoing clinical trials. 
Final analysis of PROactive long-term 
trial. 
Routine pharmacovigilance including 
review in PSURs. 
Results from PROactive study. 
Analysis from ongoing clinical trials. 
Pioglitazone clinical trial to investigate 
mechanisms. 
Review of ADR reports to assess 
compliance with SPC 
recommendations. 
Routine pharmacovigilance including 
review in PSURs. 
Analysis from ongoing clinical trials. 
Final study report from PROactive 
study and long term follow up. 
Analyses from KPNC cohort study. 
Non-clinical study in male rats. 
Routine pharmacovigilance including 
review in PSURs. 
Pioglitazone clinical trial to investigate 
mechanisms. 
Weight gain / 
peripheral 
oedema 
Macular oedema 
Neoplasia 
4. 
5. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
2. 
3. 
2. 
1. 
5. 
1. 
in 
use 
hepatic 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Contraindication 
for 
impairment in section 4.3 of the SPC. 
for 
Precautions 
assessing  ALT  levels  in  section  4.4  of  the 
SPC. 
Elevated 
hepatocellular dysfunction in section 4.8. 
recommendations 
function 
hepatic 
tests 
and 
and 
Contraindication in section 4.3 of the SPC. 
Precautions and recommendations in section 
4.4 of the SPC. 
Heart  failure  in  combination  therapy  with 
insulin in section 4.8 
Precautions and recommendations in section 
4.4 of the SPC. 
Statement of finding of bladder hyperplasia / 
neoplasia in rats in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
risk  minimisation 
RMP, 
for  macular 
oedema: Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
for  macular  oedema  and  decreased  visual 
acuity;  mentioning  of  macular  oedema  as 
ADR in Section 4.8 of SPC. 
17/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CONCLUSION 
On  the  view  of  the  available  data  and  considering  the  recommendations  from  the  SAG,  the  CHMP 
concluded  that  the  data  presented is  adequate  to  support  the  MAH  conclusion  of  an  overall  positive 
risk-benefit assessment for the combination therapy of pioglitazone with insulin. Therefore, the CHMP 
agreed  the  inclusion  of  the  indication  in  combination  with  insulin  and  the  deletion  of  the 
contraindication with insulin.  
Since  the  combination  therapy  of  insulin  with  pioglitazone  has  not  been  compared  with  insulin  and 
metformin,  and  in  view  of  the  risk  of  cardiac  failure,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the 
combination of pioglitazone and insulin should be a second line option to the use of metformin and 
insulin in patients for whom metformin is inappropriate because of contraindications or intolerance. 
In  light  of  the  risk  of  cardiac  failure  with  the  use  of  pioglitazone  in  combination  with  insulin,  the 
CHMP requested that this risk should be reflected in detail in the product information and within the 
Risk Management Plan. 
The CHMP requested that the management of the risk should clearly include detailed warnings and 
precautions for use, including: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The present contra-indication against use in patients with cardiac failure in Section 4.3 should 
be retained; 
Clear  warnings  must  be  included  in  Section  4.4  regarding  the  risk  of  heart  failure  and  the 
significance of weight gain; 
Listing of ‘heart failure’ as an adverse event in Section 4.8; 
A  succinct  statement  in  Section  4.8  on  reports  of  heart  failure  from  clinical  trials  and  post-
marketing experience. 
Additionally,  the  CHMP  agreed  that  a  contraindication  to  use  in  diabetic  ketoacidosis  should  be 
included  as  pioglitazone  exerts  its  antihyperglyaemic  effect  only  in  the  presence  of  endogenous  
insulin. 
18/18
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
