Summary of risk management plan for Actos 
(Pioglitazone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Actos. The RMP details important risks of 
Actos, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Actos's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Actos's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Actos should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Actos should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Actos's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Actos is authorised for second- or third line treatment of type II diabetes mellitus as described below: 
as monotherapy  
- 
in adult patients (particularly overweight patients) inadequately controlled by diet and exercise 
for whom metformin is inappropriate because of contraindications or intolerance; 
as dual oral therapy in combination with  
-  metformin, in adult patients (particularly overweight patients) with insufficient glycaemic 
control despite maximal tolerated dose of monotherapy with metformin;  
- 
a sulfonylurea, only in adult patients who show intolerance to metformin or for whom 
metformin is contraindicated, with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated 
dose of monotherapy with a sulfonylurea; 
As triple oral therapy in combination with  
-  metformin and a sulfonylurea, in adult patients (particularly overweight patients) with 
insufficient glycaemic control despite dual oral therapy. 
Actos is also indicated for combination with insulin in type II diabetes mellitus adult patients with 
insufficient glycaemic control on insulin for whom metformin is inappropriate because of 
contraindications or intolerance (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains pioglitazone as the active 
substance and it is given by mouth as a tablet. 
Further information about the evaluation of Actos’s benefits can be found in Actos’s EPAR, including in 
its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/actos 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Actos, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Actos's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Actos is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Actos are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded 
as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with 
the use of Actos. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Not applicable. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Actos. 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Actos. 
 
 
