EMA/330743/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000285 
EPAR summary for the public 
Actos 
pioglitazone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Actos. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Actos. 
What is Actos? 
Actos is a medicine that contains the active substance pioglitazone. It is available as tablets (15, 30 
and 45 mg). 
What is Actos used for? 
Actos is used to treat type 2 diabetes in adults (aged 18 years or over), particularly those who are 
overweight. It is used in addition to diet and exercise as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
on its own in patients for whom metformin (another diabetes medicine) is not suitable; 
in combination with metformin in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone, 
or with a sulphonylurea (another type of diabetes medicine) when metformin is not suitable in 
patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on a sulphonylurea alone; 
together with both metformin and a sulphonylurea in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled 
despite treatment with two medicines by mouth; 
together with insulin in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled with insulin alone and cannot 
take metformin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Actos used? 
The recommended starting dose of Actos is 15 or 30 mg once a day. This dose may need to be 
increased after one or two weeks to up to 45 mg once a day if better blood glucose (sugar) control is 
needed. The tablets should be swallowed with water. 
Treatment with Actos should be reviewed after three to six months, and discontinued in patients who 
are not deriving sufficient benefit. At subsequent reviews prescribers should confirm that benefits to 
patients are maintained.  
How does Actos work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Actos, pioglitazone, makes cells (fat, muscle and liver) more sensitive to insulin, which means that the 
body makes better use of the insulin it produces. As a consequence, the blood glucose levels are 
reduced and this helps to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Actos been studied? 
Actos has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment), metformin and gliclazide (a 
sulphonylurea) in a number of studies. Some studies also looked at combining Actos with a 
sulphonylurea, insulin or metformin, or with the combination of metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
Further studies also looked at long-term use of Actos. Almost 7,000 patients received Actos in all of the 
studies combined. The studies measured the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Actos shown during the studies? 
Actos led to a decrease in the level of HbA1c, indicating that blood glucose levels had been reduced at 
doses of 15, 30 and 45 mg. Actos on its own was shown to be as effective as metformin and gliclazide. 
Actos also improved the glucose control obtained in type 2 diabetes when it was added to existing 
treatment with a sulphonylurea, insulin or metformin, or the combination of metformin and a 
sulphonylurea. 
What is the risk associated with Actos? 
The most common side effects with Actos (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are upper 
respiratory tract infection (colds), hypoaesthesia (reduced sense of touch), visual disturbance, bone 
fractures and increased weight. If Actos is used in combination with other diabetes medicines, other 
side effects may occur. For the full list of all side effects reported with Actos, see the package leaflet. 
Actos must not be used in patients who have problems with their liver, patients who have had heart 
failure (when the heart does not work as well as it should) or patients with diabetic ketoacidosis (a 
complication of diabetes). It must also not be used in patients who have or have had bladder cancer or 
those with blood in the urine that has not yet been investigated. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Actos  
EMA/330743/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why has Actos been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Actos’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Actos? 
The company that markets Actos will produce educational material for doctors prescribing the 
medicine, which will cover the possible risk of heart failure and bladder cancer with treatments that 
contain pioglitazone, the criteria for selecting patients and the need to review treatment regularly and 
stop treatment if patients are no longer benefiting.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Actos have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Actos: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union, for 
Actos on 13 October 2000.  
The full EPAR for Actos can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Actos, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2016.  
Actos  
EMA/330743/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
