Summary of the risk management plan for Actrapid
(human insulin)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Actrapid. The RMP 
details important risks of Actrapid, how these risks can be minimised and how 
more information will be obtained about Actrapid’s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information).
Actrapid’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
(PL) give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Actrapid should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Actrapid should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all of which is part of the European public assessment 
reports (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Actrapid’s RMP.
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
Actrapid is authorised for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. It contains human 
insulin as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous or intravenous 
route.
Further information about the evaluation of Actrapid’s benefits can be found in 
Actrapid’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage (EPAR link Actrapid).
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Actrapid, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Actrapid’s risks, are outlined 
below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on 
correct use, in the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals.
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging.

 The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so 
to ensure that the medicine is used correctly.
 The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the 
patient (e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events (AEs) is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so 
that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Actrapid are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Actrapid. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on 
the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B Summary of important risks
No risks of Actrapid need special risk management or pharmacovigilance 
activities for further characterisation.
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or 
specific obligation of Actrapid.
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
No studies are required for Actrapid.
