EMA/778871/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000424 
EPAR summary for the public 
Actrapid 
human insulin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Actrapid. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Actrapid. 
What is Actrapid? 
Actrapid is a solution for injection that contains the active substance human insulin. It is available as 
vials, cartridges (Penfill) or prefilled pens (NovoLet, InnoLet or FlexPen).  
What is Actrapid used for? 
Actrapid is used to treat diabetes. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Actrapid used? 
Actrapid is given by injection under the skin in the thigh, the abdominal wall (at the front of the waist), 
the deltoid region (shoulder) or the gluteal region (buttocks). The patient's blood glucose (sugar) 
should be tested regularly to find the lowest effective dose. 
The usual dose is between 0.3 and 1.0 international units (IU) per kilogram body weight per day. 
Actrapid is given 30 minutes before a meal. Actrapid is a fast-acting insulin and may be used with 
intermediate or long-acting insulins. Actrapid may also be given intravenously (into a vein) but only by 
a doctor or a nurse. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Actrapid work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the blood glucose or 
when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Actrapid is a replacement insulin that is very similar 
to the insulin made by the pancreas. 
The active substance in Actrapid, human insulin, is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant 
technology’: the insulin is made by a yeast that has received a gene (DNA), which makes it able to 
produce insulin. The replacement insulin acts in same way as naturally produced insulin and helps 
glucose enter cells from the blood. By controlling the blood glucose, the symptoms and complications 
of diabetes are reduced. 
How has Actrapid been studied? 
Actrapid has been studied in patients with type 1 diabetes, when the pancreas cannot produce insulin 
(two studies involving 1,954 patients), and type 2 diabetes, when the body is unable to use insulin 
effectively (one study involving 182 patients). The studies compared Actrapid with another 
replacement insulin called insulin aspart over six months by measuring the level of glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c), which is the percentage of haemoglobin in the blood that has glucose attached. 
HbA1c gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Actrapid shown during the studies? 
HbA1c levels remained fairly steady over the six months of treatment with Actrapid. 
What is the risk associated with Actrapid? 
The most common side effect with Actrapid (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is hypoglycaemia (low 
blood glucose levels). For the full description of all side effects reported with Actrapid, see the package 
leaflet. 
Actrapid must not be used in people who are hypersensitive to human insulin or any of the other 
ingredients.  
Why has Actrapid been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Actrapid’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Actrapid 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Actrapid on 7 October 2002.  
The full EPAR for Actrapid can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Actrapid, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2012. 
Actrapid  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
