SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Actrapid.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Diabetes  mellitus  is  a  group  of  metabolic  diseases  characterised  by  hyperglycaemia  resulting  from 
defects  in  insulin  secretion,  insulin  action,  or  both.  Acute,  life-threatening  consequences  of  diabetes 
are  hyperglycaemia  with  ketoacidosis  or  non-ketotic  hyperosmolar  syndrome.  Long-term 
complications  of  diabetes  include  retinopathy  with  potential  loss  of  vision,  nephropathy  leading  to 
renal failure, and peripheral neuropathy causing foot ulcers, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and sexual 
dysfunction.  The  disease  is  also  accompanied  by  an  increased  incidence  of  atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and cerebrovascular disease. 
Type  1  diabetes,  which  usually  is  of  childhood  or  adolescence  onset,  accounts  for  5  to  10%  of 
diagnosed diabetes; it is characterised by loss of insulin production due to destruction of pancreatic ß 
cells as a result of an autoimmune response or idiopathic causes. Patients with type 1 diabetes depend 
on exogenous insulin for survival. 
Type 2 diabetes, which usually is of adult onset, is by far the more common form of diabetes. In the 
Western  World,  it  constitutes  approximately  90%  of  all  cases  of  diabetes.  Type  2  diabetes  is 
characterised  by  impaired  insulin  secretion,  insulin  resistance,  increased  hepatic  glucose  output  and 
lipid  disorders.  Patients  with  type  2  diabetes  generally  do  not  require  insulin  treatment  for  survival, 
although  a  substantial  number  (20-30%)  of  patients  need  insulin  to  achieve  acceptable  metabolic 
control. 
Marketing  authorisation  for  this  human  insulin  has  been  obtained  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
diabetes mellitus 
The active substance of Actrapid is human insulin manufactured by recombinant DNA technology in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The formulation is designed for fast/rapid onset of action. 
Actrapid  is  intended  for  marketing  in  dose  strengths  of  40  IU/ml  and  100  IU/ml  and  6  different 
presentations, as follows: 
Actrapid 40 IU/ml, 10ml vial 
Actrapid 100 IU/ml, 10ml vial 
Actrapid Penfill 100 IU/ml, 3ml 
Actrapid InnoLet 100 IU/ml, 3ml 
Actrapid NovoLet 100 IU/ml, 3ml 
Actrapid FlexPen 100 IU/ml, 3ml 
The  Penfill  presentation  is  a  cartridge  that  is  designed  to  be  inserted  in  a  durable  device.  The 
cartridges should only be used with devices and needles that are compatible with the Penfill products. 
The  InnoLet  presentation  is  a  multi-dose  pre-filled  pen  delivering  a  maximum  of  50  units  per  dose  in 
increments  of  1  unit.  The  device  is  equipped  with  an  end-of-content  mechanism  that  ensures  that  the 
adjusted dose does not exceed the remaining content of the 3 ml cartridge after multiple use. The device is 
targeted for use by geriatric patients with impaired dexterity and/or vision.  
The NovoLet presentation is a multidose pre-filled pen delivering 2-78 units per dose in increments of 2 
units. 
The FlexPen presentation is also a multidose pre-filled pen delivering 1-60 units per dose in increments 
of 1 unit. For patients, the FlexPen device represents an improvement over the NovoLet device in terms of 
automatic zeroing and delivery of dose in single unit increments. 
1/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The  formulation,  designed  for  fast  onset  of  action,  is  a  neutral  solution  containing  Human  insulin 
(rDNA) as active ingredient and agents for functions as follows: zinc (stabilising), glycerol (isotonic) 
and metacresol (preservative). 
Actrapid  is  presented  in  10  ml  vials,  3  ml  cartridges  (Penfill)  and  in  multidose  pre-filled  pens 
(InnoLet, NovoLet and FlexPen). Two strengths exist in vial presentations: 100 IU/ml and 40 IU/ml. 
Only  one  strength  exists  in  the  other  presentations:  100  IU/ml.  All  100  IU/ml  presentations  have 
identical compositions. 
The 10 ml vial is a glass container with a laminated rubber stopper (disc) and snap-off cap. The glass 
container is produced from type I Ph.Eur. colourless glass. 
The  Penfill  cartridges  consist  of  a  3  ml  type  I  Ph.Eur.,  colourless  glass  cartridge  sealed  with  a 
laminated rubber stopper and a rubber plunger.  
InnoLet,  NovoLet  and  FlexPen  are  multidose  pre-filled  pens  made  of  a  plastic  injector  device  fitted 
with 3 ml Penfill cartridges. 
Active substance 
The active substance of Actrapid, human insulin (rDNA) complies with Ph.Eur. monograph 1999:838 
with additional tests as follows: 
Identification by amino acid composition 
Nitrogen content 
Total viable count (CFU/g) 
DNA content 
Methods  of  analysis  for  the  additional  tests  developed  by  the  applicant  are  fully  described  with 
relevant validations. 
Development Genetics 
Human  insulin  is  produced  using  a  genetically  modified  strain  of  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae.  The 
strain carries a plasmid which codes for the expression of a single amino acid chain insulin precursor 
attached to a pre-pro leader region of the yeast mating factor (MFα1) gene. The plasmid is constructed 
based on the yeast 2µ plasmid. 
The  yeast  transformant  used  to  produce  the  insulin  precursor  is  a  transformant  of  Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae carrying the expression plasmid described above. The applicant has presented the complete 
DNA sequence of the plasmid. The sequencing presented is assembled from published sequences and 
in-house sequence determinations as relevant. The gene has also been fully characterised from isolated 
plasmids  from  long-term  production  scale  fermentation  and  cell  bank  (Original  Mother  Culture 
(OMC)). 
Constructional  stability  has  been  investigated  in  production  strain,  prolonged  and  very  long  term 
fermentation and cell bank (OMC). 
Cell bank system 
The cell bank system consists of Original Mother Culture (OMC), New Mother Culture (NMC), MCB 
and  WCB.  Satisfactory  details  of  the  preparation  of  the  different  types  of  cell  banks  have  been 
provided and a clear description given of the numbering and origin of the various cell banks and their 
sublots. 
Production of active substance 
The encoded product of secretion during fermentation is a single chain insulin precursor consisting of 
the first 29 amino acid residues of the insulin B chain linked with three amino acids to the insulin A 
chain.  This  single  chain  precursor  is  converted  enzymatically  to  an  insulin  methyl  ester,  which  is 
subsequently hydrolysed to yield human insulin, consisting of two chains (A and B) linked together 
2/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  disulphide  bridges.  The  purification  process  employs  several  chromatography  and  precipitation 
steps  for  isolation  of  the  precursor,  the  intermediates,  and  the  active  substance  respectively.  This 
process is well established and it should be noted that human insulin rDNA has been manufactured by 
the  applicant  over  a  period  of  many  years  during  which  time  a  number  of  improvements  have  been 
made. 
Validation data have been provided for the fermentation, recovery and purification processes. In each 
case, critical parameters in these processes have been identified and investigated. 
Satisfactory  analytical  data  are  provided  for  10  recently  produced  batches  of  human  insulin 
demonstrating a high degree of consistency in the manufacturing process. 
Stability of active substance 
The  applicant  has  provided  results  of  testing  of  20  batches  from  the  ongoing  stability  programme. 
Testing parameters include dry substance, insulin polymer, insulin dimer, A21 desamido insulin, other 
related  substances  and  assay.  The  data  confirm  that  active  substance  is  stable  for  60  months  when 
stored at the recommended storage temperature. 
Other ingredients 
All ingredients conform to Ph.Eur. apart from metacresol (no monograph in Ph.Eur.), which conforms 
to USP. 
Product development and finished product 
Development Pharmaceutics 
The  Actrapid  formulation  is  a  sterile  multi  dose  neutral  aqueous  solution.  It  is  produced  in  two 
strengths (100 IU/ml and 40 IU/ml) as explained under  
Composition. 
Like  for  other  insulin  products,  components  with  the  purpose  of  assuring  appropriate  isotonic, 
preservative and stabilizing properties have been added. 
The current formulation represents an accumulation of experience the applicant has gained with a wide 
variety of insulin products over the years dating back to the early 1960’s. The present formulation was 
developed in connection with the switchover from animal to semi synthetic human insulin in the early 
1980’s and fine-tuned in the late 1980’s with an improved antimicrobial preservative efficacy system. 
There have been no changes to the formulation since then. 
Compatibility  of  the  container  components  and  product  is  shown  to  be  satisfactory  via  stability 
studies.  
Sterilisation by filtration is essential given the heat sensitivity of the active ingredient.  
Manufacturing process 
The  product  is  prepared  by  mixing  a  number  of  solutions.  The  solutions  are  sterile  filtered  into  a 
filling  tank.  Filling  occurs  in  a  grade  A  zone  and  vials  and  cartridges  are  inspected  individually  by 
manual or automated inspection. Pen injector products are assembled thereafter. 
Due  to  the  nature  of  this  application  i.e.  transfer  of  MRP  product  to  the  centralised  procedure,  and 
based on the extensive experience the applicant has with the product, no new validation studies have 
been initiated for this application. An overview of the processes used together with a description of the 
critical  production  parameters  is  provided.  Summary  results  have  also  been  provided  for  various 
Actrapid products manufactured at various approved sites and in different batch sizes. Available data 
show a consistent, well-controlled manufacturing process. 
Actrapid complies with the requirements of the following Ph.Eur. monographs: 
•  1999:0854 Insulin Preparations, Injectable 
•  1997:0834 Insulin Injection, Soluble 
In addition to monograph tests the products are tested by in-house methods for identity and content of 
preservative and for dose accuracy (pre-filled injector products only). 
3/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full methodologies have been provided for all in-house methods. A complete justification of the tests 
employed has been provided. 
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  provided  for  3  recently  produced  batches  of  each  presentation.  All 
batches comply with their respective specifications. 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  reports  are  provided  covering  the  different strengths, presentations and  production sites for 
Actrapid.  
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability. These results support the shelf life stated in the SPC. 
Viral safety and TSE risk assessment 
A number of animal derived raw materials are used in the production of human insulin, (rDNA). These 
are peptone, beef extract and pepticase which are used in the preparation and storage of cell banks, and 
L-threonine and trypsin used in the purification process to convert human insulin precursor to human 
insulin methyl ester. 
Pepticase  falls  outside  the  scope  of  the  TSE  Guideline  as  it  is  derived  from  casein  from  milk  from 
healthy cows only and no other ruminant materials are used in its preparation. 
For  peptone  (CEP-2000-175)  and  beef  extract  (CEP-2000-181)  Certificates  of  Suitability  of  the 
EDQM have been submitted. 
L-threonine is sourced from avian feathers and porcine gelatine and trypsin from porcine pancreas. 
The risk of transmission of TSE from Actrapid to human beings has been appropriately addressed in 
accordance  with  CPMP/CVMP  Note  for  Guidance  for  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal 
spongiform encephalopathy via medicinal products (EMEA/410/01). 
Viral safety issues have been addressed and compliance with relevant guidelines is considered to be 
met. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Satisfactory  evidence  is  provided  that  product  manufacture  is  well  controlled,  that  consistency  of 
production  is  achieved  and  that  a  stable  product  results.  The  requirements  of  the  relevant  directives 
and guidelines are met. The pharmaceutical portions of the SPC, package insert and product label are 
supported by the information provided in the dossier. Several minor quality issues will be addressed 
by the applicant on an ongoing (post-approval) basis. 
3 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  preclinical  evaluation  of  the  present  product  is  based  on  the  documentation  for  the  active 
ingredient; insulin human (rDNA). The programme includes recent studies performed with the insulin 
analogue  insulin  aspart.  In  several  of  these  studies,  were  insulin  human  (rDNA)  used  as a reference 
substance.  
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Primary pharmacology programme. 
The  programme  includes  studies  performed  in  the  eighties  demonstrating  the  similarity  between  insulin 
human  and  semi-synthetic  insulin  human,  later  studies  supplementing  above  studies  and  recent  studies 
where insulin human was used as a reference substance for insulin analogues.  
• 
In vitro studies  
Insulin  is  a hormone composed of two polypeptides  (two  protein chains named A and B chains  having 
respectively  30  and  21  amino-acids).  Two  disulfide  bonds  link  these  two  chains.  The  structure  of  the 
insulin  is  similar  of  those  of  several  other  hormones  or  growth-factors  (including  insulin-like  growth 
factors  IGF-1  and  IGF-2).  IGF-1  and  IGF-2  have  some  affinity  for  the  insulin  receptor,  however  both 
growth factors have their own receptors. The insulin and IGFs receptors both belong to the tyrosine kinase 
4/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
family  receptors.  The  activation  of  the  receptors  is  obtained  when  the  endogenous  ligand  occupies  the 
receptor.  Once  activated  the  signal  transduction  produced  by  these  receptors,  which  mediates  the 
physiological  action  of  the  hormone,  starts  with  an  autophosphorylation  of  the  receptor.  The  in  vitro 
studies  explored  the  affinity  of  insulin  analogues  for  other  receptors  belonging  to  the  tyrosine  kinase 
family. 
The  receptor  binding  activity  of  insulin  human  was  studied  in  connection  with  the  pre-clinical 
development of the insulin aspart (see table 1 below). 
Table 1: Determination of the receptor affinity of insulin human (rDNA). 
Affinity for Insulin Receptor 
=100% 
Affinity for IGF1-Receptor 
0.03% 
• 
In vivo studies  
The effect on blood glucose in diabetic rats after subcutaneous administration was studied in diabetic rats 
which received by a single subcutaneous injection either insulin human, semi-synthetic insulin or vehicle. 
The effect on blood glucose was measured by blood sampling. Insulin human and semi-synthetic insulin 
showed dose and time dependant antidiabetic effect. 
The pharmacological effect of insulin human 40 U/ml was studied in a cross-over assay in rabbits. A 
standard crossover study (British Pharm., 1980) of the hypoglycaemic effect after SC administration in 
Rabbits (n=36) was done. There was no difference between equivalent preparations made from human 
insulin or semi-synthetic insulin.  
• 
Safety pharmacology programme. 
In  the  Irwin  test,  a  few  mice  showed  a  slight  reduction  in  exploratory  and  spontaneous  activity.  In  the 
Animex  test,  which  is  more  sensitive,  mice  showed  a  decrease  in  motor  activity  at  the  highest  dose  (5 
U/kg). Reduced performance in the rotarod test was also observed in mice at the highest dose (5 U/kg) in 
one study, but no effects were observed at 100 U/kg in a later study. The locomotion activity in rats were 
slightly reduced at 100 U/kg, which was the only dose tested.  
Newer studies support the original ones. 
The  time  from  disappearance  to  reappearance  of  the  righting  reflex  (sleeping  time)  induced  by 
pentobarbital in mice was prolonged after treatment with 5 U/kg. The same applies to hexobarbital after 
treatment with 100 U/kg; the effect was reversed with glucose administration. A dose of 100 U/kg after 
administration of ethanol significantly increased the mortality and sleeping time. No antagonistic effect on 
pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions in mice was observed at 100 U/kg, and this treatment did not act as 
a pro-convulsant either. Insulin human did not show any inhibitory effects on acetic acid induced writhing 
in mice at 100 U/kg (P-27), indicating absence of analgesic potential. The Body temperature in mice was 
unaffected by 100 U/kg (P-28). Neither insulin  human  nor semi synthetic insulin human produced any 
“curarizing”  effect  on  neuromuscular  transmission  after  treatment  of  rats  up  to  5  U/kg  IV.  No  effects 
attributed to treatment were observed in an in vitro preparation of guinea-pig ileum and vas deferens. 
No effects on cardiovascular and respiratory system attributed to treatment were observed in cats and in 
pigs. The gastro-intestinal motility of mice was unaffected. A transient fall in diuresis was observed in rats, 
however  this  effect  was  reversed  after  SC  administration  of  glucose.  A  bromsulphtalein-test  showed  no 
indications  of  pathological  effects  to  liver  parenchyma  in  pigs.  Blood  platelets  of  human  Rich  Platelet 
Plasma were not affected after in vitro treatment with insulin human. 
Effects seen in the original and newer safety pharmacology studies can all be related to hypoglycaemia. 
5/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single Dose Pharmacokinetics Studies 
The pharmacokinetics properties of insulin human were investigated after a single dose IV and SC in the 
Rat. These experiments have all shown that insulin human has regular, predictable kinetics in the rat after 
SC injection of various high doses.  
A single dose pharmacokinetic study in the pig where insulin human was administered IV and SC showed 
that  Tmax  equals  79  min  [Tmax  is  the  time  at  which  the  highest  drug  concentration  occurs  following 
administration of an extra vascular dose. Tmax is expressed in min or hr]. 
Multiple Dose Pharmacokinetics Studies 
A  multiple  SC  dose  kinetics  study  was  performed  in  rats  and  compared  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of 
insulin aspart and insulin human. A small relative increase in the tmax and Cmax of insulin human after SC 
administration twice daily for 7 days has been observed. The kinetics after multiple doses were basically 
similar to those after single doses injected SC. 
Table 2: 
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Insulin Human (rDNA) 
Administration 
Endpoint 
Man 
022/UK 
Pig  
NN 950475 
Dog 
NN 960548 
Rat 
NN 960550 
Insulin human (rDNA) 
SC 
IV 
t½ (min) 
Cmax (pM) 
Tmax (min) 
Cl (l·min/kg) 
(0.1 
U/kg) 
122 
102 
145 
(0.125U/kg) 
(1U/kg) 
(6U/kg) 
121 
122 
99 
0.021 
57 
2871 
60 
0.048 
23 
18000 
15 
0.058 
As the majority of the insulin human preparation is of same composition as the semi-synthetic insulin 
human  preparations,  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  the  original  preclinical 
programme.  Linearity  concerning  AUC/dose  was  confirmed  in  different  species,  meaning  that  there 
was no insulin accumulation. 
Toxicokinetics 
Toxicokinetic studies were done during the 52 weeks repeated dose toxicity studies in the rat and the dog 
and the Segment II test (teratogenicity studies) in the pregnant rabbit. They demonstrated linearity of 
the plasma levels of insulin human with the dose, the Cmax, occurred 1-5 hours after administration of 
either  type  of  insulin.  The plasma levels and AUCs of insulin human remained directly related to dose 
throughout the 52 weeks of treatment and that the rate of elimination did not increase with time. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity studies. 
Mice and Rats were given a single dose of insulin human subcutaneous at dosage up to 4000 U/kg. In 
higher dosage groups insulin human was compared to semi-synthetic insulin. Apart from few sporadic 
hypoglycaemic  reactions  on  the  day  of  dosing,  no  treatment  related  signs  were  seen.  No  significant 
difference between insulin human and semi-synthetic insulin was observed. 
• 
Repeated doses toxicity. 
The subacute toxicity was examined in rats and dogs during a 4weeks SC study in Wistar Rats and a 13 
weeks SC study in Beagle Dogs.  
Insulin human was administrated subcutaneous for 1 year to Sprague Dawley Rats. At necropsy, there was 
an  increased  incidence  of  mammary  gland  cyst  and  mammary  tumours  were  found  at  microscopic 
examination.  The  incidence  of  total  number  of  mammary  tumours  as  well  as  fibroadenomas  and 
adenocarcinomas  were  however  not  significant  from  the  control  group.  There  were  no  other  treatment-
related effects in any organ, including the pituitary. 
6/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beagle  dogs  were  given  insulin  human  1  U/kg  twice  daily  SC  for  12 months.  Besides  one  case  of 
abnormal weight gain, there were no other important effects of the treatments. 
• 
Genotoxicity. 
The genotoxic potential of insulin human was evaluated through a bacterial reverse mutation test in 4 
strains  of  Salmonella  typhimurium,  a  clastogenic  activity  test  in  cultured  human  lymphocytes,  a 
mutagenic activity test on the HGPRT-locus in chinese hamster V79 cells and a micronucleus test in 
bone marrow erythrocytes. In all the tests insulin human was found non-mutagenic.  
Insulin  human  was  included  as  reference  substance  in  a  gene  mutation  study  in  mouse  lymphoma 
L5178Y cells (TFT-resistance). Negative findings were obtained with no signs of cytotoxicity. 
• 
Carcinogenicity. 
MCF-7  human  breast  cancer  cells  were  incubated  with  different  concentrations  of  insulin  aspart, 
insulin human and an experimental insulin analogue. Dose response curves from seven studies were the 
same for insulin aspart and insulin human, whereas the experimental insulin analogue had at least 10-
times their mitogenic potential. 
In an exploratory 12-month test and in the formal 12-month toxicity study in the Sprague-Dawley rat the 
effects of chronic administration of insulin aspart and insulin human on mammary tissues in the Rat were 
explored.  In  these  studies  some  animals  developed  neoplasms  of  mammary  tissue.  All  animals  in  all 
treatment groups showed hyperplasia of mammary glandular epithelial cells. In both tests most mammary 
gland  tumours  were  fibroadenomas  all  had  a  typical  histological  appearance.  The  small  number  of 
adenocarcinomas had remained local and had not metastasised. The pituitary glands appeared normal. 
A study exploring the effects of repeated subcutaneous injection of insulin aspart and insulin human for 52 
weeks in rats has been conducted. This study has been performed in Sprague-Dawley rats. A dose-related 
increase in palpable subcutaneous masses has been observed at 30 and 75 U/kg twice daily. A statistically 
significant  (p<0.01)  increased  incidence  of  female  animals  bearing  mammary  gland  tumours  at  75 
U/kg/bid were found. The increase was evident in benign/malign combined as well as in malign tumours 
alone. No evidence of mammary gland hyperplasia or of tumours was seen in the test up to 12 months in 
the dog. 
Particularly  under  certain  experimental  conditions  insulin  may  induce  mammary  tumours  in  the  female 
Sprague  Dawley  rat  (a  sensitive  species,  strain  and  sex)  probably  related  to  a  mitogenic  and  growth-
promoting action of insulin mediated by the insulin receptor. 
An increase in the number of benign mammary adenomas and fibroadenomas has been shown in Sprague 
Dawley rats. In one 12-month study, there was a statistically significant increase of female animals bearing 
benign and malign mammary gland tumours at the highest dose. There was no increase of mammary gland 
hyperplasia or tumours in the 12-month dog study. 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity. 
Fertility  and  Embryo-Foetal  Development  studies  have  been  conducted  in  the  Sprague  Dawley  Rat. 
Fertility was not affected. Males showed slight reduction in the epididymal sperm count. Dams treated 
with  high  doses  (200  U/kg)  of  insulin  human  showed  pre-  and  post-implantation  loss,  and  a  specific 
pattern of anatomical abnormalities of the foetuses was seen. The findings are regarded as a consequence 
of the severe maternal hypoglycaemia. 
The  pre-  and  post-natal  development  of  Sprague  Dawley  rats  born  from  pregnant  females  exposed  to 
insulin human has been studied. Maternal hypoglycaemia with a few deaths and effects on weight gain and 
food consumption were observed in the dams. 
Newborn pups showed slightly increased weight gain, which had become normalised by weaning. There 
were a few other variations in F1 animals but no major effect was found. 
Embryo-foetal development of rabbits born from pregnant females exposed to insulin human has also been 
studied. The high doses of insulin led to increased food consumption and accelerated weight gain, which 
persisted to the end of the experiment. There was a dose-related reduction in plasma glucose. In the mid- 
and  low  doses  it  had  recovered  by  4h  after  the  first  dose.  Top-dose  group  (5  U/kg)  showed  embryonic 
7/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
deaths and related depression of litter size and weight. At 1.5 U/kg and above, foetuses showed skeletal 
abnormalities. These effects were considered to be due to the induced maternal hypoglycaemia. 
In Segments I/II study, fertility was not affected in rats given insulin human. Males had a slightly reduced 
epididymal sperm count. Pre- and post-implantation loss was increased and a proportion of foetuses had 
characteristic  abnormalities  attributed  to  reduction  of  maternal  blood  glucose.  In  an  embryo-foetal 
development study in rabbits, an increase in early embryonic deaths with associated decrease in litter size 
and  litter  weight  was  observed  at  10  U/kg.  A  dose-dependent  increase  in  foetuses  with  skeletal 
abnormalities was seen.  
During gestation, abortion and foetal death and malformations were seen, but only during severe maternal 
hypoglycaemia and are already known to occur in incorrectly treated diabetic women. 
• 
Local Tolerance. 
The  local  tolerance  was  studied  in  rabbits  after  IM  injections  of  insulin  human.  It  was  concluded  that 
insulin  human  caused  damages  which  were  similar  to  those  found  after  injection  of  isotonic  saline 
solution. 
A  test  for  local  irritation  in  rabbits  showed  that  there  were  no  differences  in  the  damages  caused  by 
isotonic saline solution and by insulin human. 
• 
Immunotoxicity studies. 
Insulin antibodies, even in moderate and low amounts, may prevent rapid rise in free blood insulin, thereby 
leading  to  higher  postprandial  glucose  levels,  or  cause  increased  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  when  insulin  is 
released from circulating insulin antibody complexes. The purity of the injected insulin has been shown to 
be  of  crucial  importance  on  the  amount  of  insulin  antibody  formed.  Thus,  5-times  crystallised  porcine 
insulin induces more insulin antibodies than the same preparation containing mono component insulin.  
The  immunogenicity  of  insulin  human  has  been  studied  in  Rabbits.  Freund’s  adjuvant  and  20  U  of 
respectively insulin human, semi-synthetic insulin and 5 times crystallized porcine insulin were injected 
intramuscularly to groups of rabbits twice a week. Serum insulin binding was estimated until 97 days. No 
statistically  significant  differences  between  the  immunogenicity  of  insulin  human  and  semi-synthetic 
insulin was found, whereas they both were demonstrated to be significantly less immunogenic that 5-times 
crystallized porcine insulin.  It  was  concluded, that insulin human fulfils the demand of low potential to 
induce insulin antibodies in accordance with other mono component insulins. 
There was no statistically significant difference between the immunogenicity in rabbits of insulin human 
and semi synthetic human insulins. These insulins were found to be significantly less immunogenic than 5 
times crystallised pork insulin. The potential for human antibody production against insulin human is thus 
considered to be low. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment. 
Insulin  human  is  considered  readily  degradable,  hence  do  not  suggest  any  environmental  risk  for 
clinical  use.  The  containers  and  devices  in  which  it  is  supplied  are  appropriate  for  disposal  by  the 
means normally employed for simple medical devices. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  main  purpose  in  the  studies  for  primary  and  secondary  pharmacodynamics  was  to  demonstrate  the 
similarity  between  the  new  insulin  human  and  semi  synthetic  human  insulin.  Effects  seen  in  the  safety 
pharmacology studies can all be related to hypoglycaemia. 
As  the  majority  of  the  insulin  human  preparation  is  of  same  composition  as  the  semi-synthetic  insulin 
preparations, no pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in the original preclinical programme. Linearity 
concerning AUC/dose was confirmed in different species, meaning that there was no drug accumulation. 
The  toxic  effects  seen  in  the  single  dose  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  attributed  to  the 
hypoglycaemic activity and thus an exaggerated pharmacological effect caused by the high doses of the 
insulin. Increased weight, depressed activity, convulsions and death were some of these effects. 
The  noted  effects  on  embryos  and  foetuses  were  only  seen  at  severe  maternal  hypoglycaemia  and  are 
already known to occur in incorrectly treated diabetic women. 
8/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All conducted genotoxicity studies were negative for mutagenic potential. An increase in the number of 
benign mammary adenomas and fibroadenomas has been shown in Sprague Dawley rats. It is concluded 
that  the  increased  incidence  of  mammary  tumours  seen  in  rats  is  probably  caused  by  mitogenic  and 
growth-promoting  action  via  the  insulin  receptor,  but  is  probably  also  related  to  the  fact  that  Sprague 
Dawley rats are especially sensitive and were given large doses. There was no increase of mammary gland 
hyperplasia or tumours in the 12-month dog study. 
Finally; a test for local irritation in rabbits showed that there were no differences in the damages caused by 
isotonic saline solution and by insulin human. The potential for human antibody production against insulin 
human is thus considered to be low. 
4 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Diabetes  is  a  group  of  metabolic  disorders  characterised  by  hyperglycaemia  due  to  defects  in  insulin 
secretion and/or insulin action. The two most common forms of diabetes mellitus are type 1 and type 2 
diabetes.  Type  1  diabetes  is  characterised  by  an  absolute deficiency of insulin due to destruction of the 
pancreatic  β-cells.  Although  the  rate  of  β-cell  destruction  is  variable,  all  type  1  diabetic  patients  will 
eventually require exogenous insulin for survival. In contrast, type 2 diabetes is characterised by insulin 
resistance,  relative  impairment  of  insulin  secretion  and  increased  hepatic  glucose  output.  In  general, 
patients with type 2 diabetes do not require exogenous insulin for survival. Nevertheless, during the course 
of the disease, a large minority of these patients will be treated with exogenous insulin to correct persistent 
hyperglycaemia. 
The goal of insulin treatment is to mimic the physiologic pattern of insulin secretion, which under normal 
conditions  consist  of  a  basal  secretion  and  meal  related  short  peaks.  The  most  commonly  used  insulin 
regimen is the so-called basal-bolus regimen in which basal insulin requirements are provided by one or 
two  injections  of  long-acting  or  intermediate-acting  insulin  and  mealtime  requirements  are  provided  by 
meal  related  injections  of  fast/rapid  acting  soluble  human  insulin/insulin  analogues.  Instead  of  separate 
injections of (intermediate) long-acting and fast-acting insulins, the two insulin preparations may be mixed 
(by the patient or as ready-made premixed insulin) before injection. It is generally accepted that the basal-
bolus  regimen  offers  the  best  glycaemic  control.  However,  many  patients,  especially  type  2  diabetic 
patients who produce significant amounts of insulin themselves, may be adequately controlled on twice-
daily injections of (intermediate) long-acting insulins or mixtures of fast-acting and (intermediate) long-
acting  insulins.  Although  this  regimen  may  not  offer  optimal  glycaemic  control,  patient  compliance  is 
generally is better for this simpler regimen than for the multiple injections regimens. Therefore, for some 
patients, the twice-daily regimen may be an acceptable alternative to the basal-bolus regimens.  
Intensified insulin therapy can reduce the incidence of complications, and delay the progression of existing 
complications in type 1 and 2 diabetes.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Seven different studies are supporting the pharmacodynamics of Actrapid. Four of those were conducted 
in healthy subjects, two studies in type 1 diabetics (including one performed in children/adolescents) and 
one trial has been conducted in type 2 diabetics patients. These studies are recent studies performed with 
the rapid acting insulin analogue insulin aspart in which Actrapid, human insulin was used as a comparator 
(see table 3 below). 
9/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: 
Clinical pharmacology trials 
Studies 
022, 023, 026 
and 027 – 
clamp trials 
Population 
(Number of 
subjects) 
Healthy 
volunteers 
022: 25 subjects 
023: 24 subjects 
026: 20 subjects 
027: 20 subjects. 
Randomised, double blind 
2 period cross-over (022 and 023) 
6-period cross-over (026) 
Parallel group (027). 
Design 
Objectives 
022: To compare the plasma profile of rapid 
acting insulin aspart with that of human 
insulin (i.e. Actrapid) 
023: To compare the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamic response to a single dose 
of rapid acting insulin aspart with that of 
Actrapid, human insulin by means of 
euglycaemic clamp. 
026: To compare the pharmacokinetic 
profiles and the pharmacodynamic response 
to single doses of rapid acting insulin aspart 
and Actrapid,human insulin injected SC 
using three different injection sites during an 
euglycaemic clamp. To compare these 
profiles with profiles of Actrapid, human 
insulin injected at the same sites.  
027: Primary: To investigate the intra-
subject variation in the time action profile 
after four independent injections with either 
rapid acting insulin aspart or Actrapid, 
human insulin. 
Secondary: To investigate inter-subject 
variations. 
024:To compare the postprandial serum 
glucose profile of rapid acting insulin aspart 
when given at time t=0 min. to the 
postprandial plasma glucose profile of 
Actrapid, human insulin when give at time 
t=0 min and t=30 min in relation to the 
standard meal. 
043: Primary: To compare the 
pharmacokinetics of rapid acting insulin 
aspart with Actrapid, human insulin in 
paediatric type 1 diabetic subjects to verify 
that the pharmacokinetic differences 
observed in adults also apply to children. 
Secondary: To compare the postprandial 
serum glucose profiles of rapid acting insulin 
aspart with those of Actrapid. 
To compare the postprandial serum glucose 
profile of rapid acting insulin aspart when 
given at time t=0 min to the postprandial 
plasma glucose profile of Actrapid, insulin 
human when given at time t=0min and t=30 
min in relation to the standard meal. 
024 and 043 – 
children and 
adolescents 
Type 1 diabetic 
patients 
Randomised double blind 3-period cross-
over (024). 
024: 24 subjects. 
043: 18 subjects. 
Randomised double blind 2-period cross-
over meal test (043). 
030 
Type 2 diabetic 
patients 
Randomised double blind 3-period cross-
over. 
25 subjects. 
Pharmacodynamics in healthy subjects 
The  study  ANA/DCD/022/UK  (also  denoted  by  022/UK)  was  aimed  at  comparing  the  plasma  insulin 
profile  of  a  single  dose  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  with  that  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  in  healthy 
volunteers. Plasma glucose, plasma insulin and C-peptide profiles after a single dose of 0.1 U/kg of rapid 
acting  insulin  aspart  and  Actrapid,  insulin  human  injected  subcutaneously  in  the  abdominal  wall  were 
compared in 24 healthy male subjects. Other endpoints were the mean residence time for insulin (denoted 
by  MRT(ins)),  the  area  under  the  serum  glucose  concentration  to  time  curve  denoted  by  AUC(BG),  the 
10/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maximum  change  from  baseline  to  minimum  concentration  ∆Cmin(BG)  and  Tmin(BG)  derived  from  plasma 
glucose profiles in an interval from 0-480 minutes, as well as Cmax(ins), Tmax(ins), and AUC(ins) [respectively 
highest  insulin(s)  concentration  measured  in  the  plasma,  the  time  when  this  highest  concentration  was 
observed  and  the  area  under  the  plasma  insulin(s)  concentration-time  curve]  derived  from  the  serum 
insulin profiles in an interval from 0-480 minutes. 
The  results  of  the  study  show  that  AUC(BG)  was  435.8  (131.4)  min.mmmol/l,  ∆Cmin(BG)  was  1.4  (0.4) 
mmol/l and Tmin(BG) was 226.4 (119.6) min. 
The  study  023/D  is  a  two  period  double-blind  randomised  cross-over  trial  to  compare  the 
pharmacodynamic  response  to  a  single  dose  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  with that of Actrapid, insulin 
human in healthy volunteers during a euglycaemic clamp. The pharmacodynamic response to a single dose 
of  0.2 U/kg  insulin  aspart  and  Actrapid, insulin human respectively, injected  SC in the  abdominal  wall, 
was compared in 24 male healthy subjects. The primary endpoints, derived from the glucose infusion rate 
in the interval 0-600 minutes (glucose infusion rates profile) were AUCGIR, GIRmax, TGIRmax, TAUC½ (time to 
half of the area under the glucose concentration-time curve, it reflects the median of the integrated glucose 
infusion rate profile). The secondary endpoints i.e. the area under the concentration-time curve (AUCins), 
the highest concentration observed in the plasma (Cmax) and the time when it was observed (Tmax), and the 
mean residence time (MRT) were derived from serum insulin profiles in the interval 0-600 minutes. The 
primary  glucose  endpoints  were  the  following  (expressed  in  means  with  SD  in  brackets)  for  Actrapid 
AUCGIR 3.7 (0.7) g/kg, GIRmax 12.1 (2.6) mg/(min x kg), TGIRmax 180.8 (56.8) min, TAUC½ 235.9 (23.4) min. 
Based on TAUC½ , the duration of action for Actrapid is approximately 8 hours. The maximum effect was 
obtained 3 hours after the injection. 
Figure 1:  Mean glucose infusion rates profiles for Actrapid, insulin human. 
12
)
)
g
k
*
n
m
i
(
/
g
m
(
I
R
G
n
a
e
M
9
6
3
0
-90
-30
30
90
150
210
270
Elapsed time (min)
330
390
450
510
570
630
i
Study 026/US was a six-period double-blind randomised  cross-over trial aimed at  comparing the action 
profile  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  in  healthy  subjects  using  different  injection  sites  during  an 
euglycaemic clamp, and to compare rapid acting insulin aspart profiles with profiles of Actrapid, insulin 
human. 
IA /ISCP/24MAY02/
23
23
/
i
The primary efficacy endpoints were derived from the glucose infusion rates profiles in the time interval 
from  0-600  minutes.  The  primary  efficacy  endpoints  were  AUCGIR,  GIRmax,  TGIRmax  and  TAUC½..  The 
secondary  endpoints  were  derived  from  the  insulin  profiles  in  the  time  interval  0-600  minutes:  AUCins, 
Cmax, Tmax, and the mean residence time (MRT). 
11/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: 
The  pharmacodynamic parameters for Actrapid, insulin human are displayed  in the 
table below. 
Injection site 
Deltoid 
Abdomen 
Thigh 
AUC (mg) 
204519 (56189) 
192010 (47896) 
205773 (53704) 
GIRmax (mg/min) 
736 (243) 
Tmax(min) 
TAUC½ (min) 
192 (51) 
243 (37) 
708 (204) 
173 (62) 
235 (46) 
720 (229) 
193 (60) 
243 (37) 
Glucose infusion rates indicate a more rapid glucose lowering action when the insulin is injected in the 
abdomen than deltoid or thigh injection sites. The TAUC½ and Tmax after an injection in the abdomen were 
slightly shorter than after an injection in the deltoid or in the thigh. The total amount of glucose infused 
was less after an abdominal injection than for the other injection sites. The maximum glucose infusion rate 
was lower for abdomen than the other injection sites. 
Study 026/US was conducted in healthy volunteers but the results of the study can be extrapolated to the 
type  1  diabetic  patients  according  to  published  studies  (such  comparison  between  SC  injection  in  the 
abdomen or in the thigh has been published in “Effects of the anatomical region used for insulin injections 
on  glycaemia  in  type  1  diabetes  subjects.  Bantle  et  al.,  Diabetes  care  1993;  16(12):1592-7;  and  in  the 
comparison between a subcutaneous  injection in the abdomen or in thigh and intramuscular injection in 
thigh has also been done (see “Impact of injection sites for soluble insulin on glycaemic control in type 1 
diabetic patients treated with a multiple insulin injection regimen. Henriksen et al., Diabetologia 1993; 36: 
752-8”). As type 2 diabetic patients usually have  a higher body mass index and a thicker subcutaneous 
tissue, especially thicker abdominal wall, this could explain why the absorption may be different. 
Study  027/D  is  a  parallel  randomised  double-blind  trial  to  investigate  the  intra-subject  and  inter-subject 
variations  in  action  profiles  after  injection  with  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  or  Actrapid  during  a 
euglycaemic clamp. Four independent doses (0.2 U/kg) of either insulin aspart or Actrapid, insulin human 
were  given  in  this  euglycaemic  clamp  trial  subcutaneously  into  the  abdominal  wall  to  18  healthy  male 
subjects.  The  primary  endpoints  derived  from  the  glucose  infusion  rate  and  secondary  endpoints  were 
related to insulin in the time interval 0-600 minutes. Intra-subject variability and inter-subject variability 
were determined.  
There is a considerable inter-subject variation of absorption and action characteristics of all known insulin 
preparations  in  normal  subjects,  and  in  particular  in  diabetic  patients  with  different  degrees  of 
lipodystrophy. Moreover the most important in the daily clinical practice is the predictability of absorption 
and  action  characteristics  of  insulin  from  day-to-day  in  the  individual  patient,  rather  than  the  absolute 
predictability  of  absorption and action profile of the insulin  preparation when administered to a patient. 
Therefore the intra-subject variability should preferably have been investigated in diabetic patients instead 
in healthy subjects. 
Table 5: 
[studies 
Pharmacodynamic 
ANA/DCD/023/D,  026/USA  and  027/D].  The  medians  (1st  to  3rd  quartile)  are 
displayed for TAUC½ and TGIRmax. 
parameters  measured 
subjects 
healthy 
in 
Trialª 
023/D 
026/USA 
Actrapid 
N  
24 
19 
027/D 
37 
b 
AUCGIR 
(g/kg) 
3.7 
(0.7) 
2.5 
(0.6) 
3.6 
(0.8) 
GIR max 
(mg/min kg) 
tAUC½ 
tGIRmax 
(min) 
12.1 
(2.6) 
9.4 
(2.7) 
13.0 
(3.1) 
237 
(222-249) 
230 
(209-273) 
234 
(219-259) 
182 
(144-235) 
168 
(136-212) 
187 
(163-222) 
AUCGIR and GIR values are mean (SD). tAUC1/2 and tGIRmax are median (1st to 3rd quartile) 
ª 
In all three trials, the dose was 0.2 U/kg administered s.c. into the abdominal wall. 
b  There were 10 patients in the treatment group; N represents the total number of insulin profiles for all the patients 
for the 4 dosing days. 
12/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics in type 1 diabetic patients 
The study ANA/DCD/024/UK compared the effects on postprandial glycaemic excursion of rapid acting 
insulin  aspart  given  immediately  before  a  test  meal,  with  the  excursion  obtained  after  administration  of 
Actrapid,  insulin  human  given  immediately  before  or  30 minutes  before  a  test  meal  in  type  1  diabetic 
patients [Note: Postprandial glucose excursion is calculated by subtracting a fasting blood glucose level 
from the after meal value at the one or two hour points. Post- meal blood glucose excursions should be 
around 1.7–2.2 mM]. 
This trial compared the postprandial glycaemic excursions obtained after the injection of 0.15 U/kg insulin 
aspart  immediately  before a test meal to the effect obtained after a similar dose of insulin human given 
either  immediately  or  30  min  before  a  standard  test  meal.  Twenty  two  type  1  diabetic  subjects  were 
enrolled in the study. Blood glucose excursions were calculated and compared primarily over the period 0 
to  240  min  after  the  test  meals.  During  this  period,  the  total  excursion  of  blood  glucose  denoted  by 
EXC(BG)  was  lower  after  insulin  human  given  30  min  prior  to  the  meals.  The  Cmax,  glu  was  lower  when 
Actrapid was given 30 min before the meal and AUCins and Cmax, ins were slightly higher when insulin 
human was administered 30 min before the meal. 
The time when the maximum plasma insulin concentration was observed (Tmax ins) was reached in half the 
time  when  Actrapid,  insulin  human  was  given  30  minutes  before  the  meal  compared  to  administration 
immediately  before  the  meal.  Therefore  administration  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  30  minutes  before  a 
meal is advantageous compared to administration of Actrapid, insulin human immediately before a meal 
with respect to postprandial blood glucose control. It has a lower maximum blood glucose concentration, 
which is consistent with a higher maximum insulin concentration, the maximum insulin concentration is 
reached faster. 
Table 6: 
The main glucose pharmacodynamic data for the 0 to 240 minutes assessment period 
together with the main insulin pharmacokinetic data for the full 0 to 360 minutes study 
period are presented below. 
EFFICACY RESULTS 
Primary blood glucose endpoint: Means (SD) 
Actrapidt=0(0-240min) 
Actrapidt=-30(0-240min) 
EXC(BG) 
(mmol/l x min) 
1311.36 (511.66) 
1105.82 (571.35) 
Secondary blood glucose endpoints: Means (SD) 
Actrapidt=0(0-240min) 
Actrapidt=-30(0-240min) 
Cmax(BG) 
(mmol/l) 
16.37 (3.37) 
14.45 (3.47) 
Cmin(BG) 
(mmol/l) 
 10.03 (3.53) 
 9.10 (2.61) 
Tmax(BG) 
(min) 
 102.73 (49.90) 
 121.14 (44.85) 
Secondary insulin endpoints: Means (SD) 
Actrapidt=0(0-360min) 
Actrapidt=-30(-30-330min) 
AUC(ins) 
(mU/l x min) 
 8820.64 (4932.83) 
 9427.75 (4952.84) 
Cmax(ins) 
(mU/l) 
MRT(ins) 
(min) 
162.44 (18.76) 
122.55 (15.65) 
Tmax(ins) 
(min) 
Actrapidt=0(0-360min) 
Actrapidt=-30(-30-330min) 
35.86 (20.13) 
39.89 (21.87) 
100.68(44.86) 
 55.23 61.79) 
13/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2:   Mean glucose and insulin profiles during the full 0 to 360 minutes study periods. (HI = 
Actrapid, insulin human) 
)
l
/
l
o
m
m
(
l
e
s
o
c
u
G
m
u
r
e
S
n
a
e
M
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
HI
HI-30
-30
0
30
60
90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
Nominal Time (min)
IAsp/ISCP/14AUG02/Emea_act.sas/fig3act_.cgm
The  study  025/UK  compared  the  metabolic  control  obtained  with  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart,  with  the 
metabolic control obtained with Actrapid, insulin human in type 1 diabetic patients. One hundred and four 
adult patients with type 1 diabetes for at least 2 years and a HBA1c <9% were randomised in the study, 90 
of  them  completed  the  trial.  The  treatment  periods  lasted  4  weeks  each.  Primary  efficacy  endpoint  was 
fructosamine.  Secondary  endpoints  were  23-hour  in-patient  plasma  glucose  profiles  at  the  end  of  each 
treatment period, weekly 8-point blood glucose profiles, ratio of bolus to basal insulin. The safety profile 
was assessed with the incidence of hypoglycaemia. 
The  study  demonstrated  that  the mean fructosamine levels after treatment with  Actrapid, insulin human 
were (3.82 mM (0.56)).  
Figure 3: 
23 hour Mean Blood Glucose Profiles 
Mean Blood Glucose (mmol/l)
2*SEM
Treatment
Actrapid
ANA/DCD/025/UK/14AUG02/fig25 act.sas/fig25 act.cgm
Pharmacodynamics in type 2 diabetic patients 
Study  030/DK/N  compared  the  effects  on  postprandial  glycaemic  excursions  of  Actrapid  given 
immediately before or 30 minutes and insulin aspart before a test meal in insulin treated type 2 diabetic 
patients. 
Twenty-two  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes  were  enrolled  in  this  study.  Euglycaemic  clamps  were 
performed overnight before each of the 3 study days. The primary endpoint was the glucose excursions 
determined during the period from 0 to 360 minutes after the insulin injections. 
14/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
The  mean  serum  glucose  profiles  shown  below  were  observed  with  different 
treatments:  Actrapid,  insulin  human  administered  either  immediately  before  or  30 
minutes before a test meal. 
Mean Serum Glucose (mmol/l)
Mean Serum Glucose Profiles
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
-30
2*SEM
0
30
60
90
120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
Nominal Time (min)
Treatment
Act
Act_30
ANA/DCD/030/N/DK/14AUG02/emea_act5.sas/fig5act_.cgm
The mean glucose excursion measured with Actrapid, insulin human administered 30 minutes before the 
meal  was 868 mmol/l x min (standard deviation = 374). The mean maximum glucose concentration for 
Actrapid, insulin human administered 30 minutes before the meal was (11.1 ± 1.8 mmol/l), it was slightly 
higher  when  Actrapid,  insulin  human  was  administered  immediately  before  the  test  meal  (12.0  ±  2.4 
mmol/l). Mean Cmin was comparable for the two treatments (6.3, and 6.6 mmol/l). 
Overall, The blood glucose excursions in study 030/DK/N in type 2 diabetic patients appeared to be 
lower compared to the ones in type 1 diabetic patients as observed in study 024/UK. In both studies, 
the injection of Actrapid, insulin human 30 minutes before a meal was more favourable regarding the 
blood glucose excursions compared to injection immediately before the test meal. 
The studies conducted in healthy volunteers, type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients mainly by using the 
euglycaemic  clamp  technique,  confirm  the  glucose  lowering  action  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human.  The 
studies performed in healthy subjects confirmed the time to onset, the duration of action and the time 
of  the  maximum  effect.  From  the  studies  in  diabetic  subjects  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
administration of insulin human 30 minutes before a meal (instead of directly before the meal) is more 
favourable as regards the total excursions of blood glucose concentrations. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Absorption and bioavailability 
Actrapid,  insulin  human  and  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  were  given  subcutaneously  at  0.1  U/kg  in 
study 022/UK and 0.2 U/kg in studies 023/D and 027/D. 
Table 7: 
The  pharmacokinetics  properties  of  insulin  human  have  been  explored  in  studies 
022/UK, 023/D, and 027/D in healthy subjects (see tables, standard deviations from 
the means are indicated in brackets). 
Cmax (mU/l) 
Tmax (min)a 
MRT (min) 
AUC (mU/lxh)b 
022/UK 
17.5 (4.3) 
120 (15-360) 
217 (30.3) 
77.8 (13.9) 
023/D 
55.2 (8.5) 
120 (30-270) 
238 (21.7) 
303 (31.7) 
027/UK 
46.5 (9.5) 
150 (30-420) 
240 (25.5) 
251 (35) 
a. median (range) 
b: 0-8h in 022/UK, in the other studies 0-10h 
15/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median Tmax for Actrapid, insulin human was 120 min. Absorption from three different injection 
sites (abdomen, deltoid and thigh) was evaluated in study 026/USA and the absorption was found to 
be faster from the abdominal wall than after an injection in deltoid whereas the slowest absorption was 
observed after an administration in the thigh. 
Table 8: 
Absorption  from  three  different  injection  sites  (abdomen,  deltoid  and  thigh)  from 
study 26/USA 
Injection site 
Deltoid 
Abdomen 
Thigh 
AUC (pmol x min/l)  47013 (10469) 
47362 (11881) 
44171 (5294) 
Cmax (pmol/l) 
Tmax(min) 
MRT (min) 
220 (99) 
103 (74) 
198 (44) 
227 (93) 
110 (64) 
186 (43) 
188 (71) 
124 (75) 
198 (48) 
• 
Distribution 
No formal distribution studies were performed with Actrapid, insulin human. Insulin is not bound to 
plasma proteins unless circulating antibodies directed against insulin are present.  
• 
Elimination 
Metabolism 
Metabolism  of  insulin  human  was  not  formally  investigated.  From  previously  published  data  it  is 
known that insulin is catabolised by various proteases. The degradation products are not active. 
Excretion 
The terminal half-life of insulin following a subcutaneous administration is determined by the rate of 
absorption  from  the  subcutaneous  tissue  since  the  half-life  in  the  blood  stream  is  very  short  (only  a 
few minutes). The mean terminal half-life for Actrapid, insulin human is 220 minutes. 
Figure 5:  Pharmacokinetic profile of Actrapid, insulin human  
Mean Serum Insulin (mU/l)
115
105
95
85
75
65
55
45
35
25
15
5
-90
-30
30
90
150
210
330
270
Nominal time (min)
Actrapid
390
Treatment
450
510
570
630
X14-023/14AUG02/fig6 act.sas
• 
Pharmacokinetics in the target population 
Adult with type 1 diabetes 
In  study  024/UK  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  in  type  1  diabetic  patients 
was shown to be similar to the pharmacokinetic profile in healthy volunteers. 
When  Actrapid  was  injected  30  minutes  before  a  meal Tmax was 80 minutes whereas it was reached 
after  97  minutes  when  it  was  administered  at  mealtime.  The  maximum  concentration  (Cmax)  was  36 
16/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mU/l when injected at meal and 39.9 mU/l when injected 30 minutes before meal. The half-lives for 
Actrapid  measured  after  the  different  times  of  administration  were  equal  to  169  and  193  minutes 
respectively.  
Children with type 1 diabetes. 
Study  043/DK  compared  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  and  Actrapid,  insulin 
human in children with type 1 diabetes. This study was a single centre randomised double-blind cross-
over trial. 
Eighteen  subjects  were  included  half  aged  between  6  and  12  years  old  and  half  between  13  and  17 
years old. The insulin was administered subcutaneously into the abdominal wall immediately before 
breakfast at 0.15IU/kg for both rapid acting insulin aspart and Actrapid, insulin human.  
The  different  pharmacokinetic  parameters  measured in  this  study were  the  maximum insulin plasma 
concentration  Cmax(ins),  the  time  when  it  was  reached  Tmax(ins),  and  the  areas  under  the  concentration-
time  curve  measured  at  different  time  intervals  AUC0-5h  (ins),  EXC0-4h(glu).  Other  parameters  included 
total baseline corrected glucose excursion. 
Table 9: 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  when  administered  to 
children. The mean values are given with standard deviation to the means indicated 
in brackets. 
Parameters 
6-12 years (n=9) 
13-17 years (n=9) 
Cmax(ins) (mU/l) 
AUC0-5h (ins) (mU/l x h) 
Tmax(ins) (min) 
59 (16) 
179 (69) 
77 (28) 
AUC0-∞(ins) mU x h/l) 
275 (139) 
T½(ins) (h) 
MRTins (min) 
3.0 (1.4) 
129 (16) 
82 (40) 
313 (186) 
99 (48) 
612 (451) 
4.0 (2.4) 
141 (13) 
All 
70 (32) 
246 (153) 
88 (40) 
444 (367) 
3.5 (2.0) 
135 (38) 
The  highest  insulin  concentration  observed  in  plasma  Cmax(ins)  appeared  to  be  higher  in  adolescents 
than in the age group 6-12 years. In addition this parameter Cmax(ins) appeared to be higher in diabetic 
children (both age groups) than in adult with type 1 diabetes patients (see results of study 024/UK). 
The  area  under  the  plasma  insulin  concentration-time  measured  between  0  and  4  hours  AUCins(0-4h) 
appeared  to  be  higher  in  adolescents  compared  to  adults  (study  024/UK).  The  half-life  of  insulin  in 
pediatric patients equals to 3-4 hours differed from the half-life measured in adults (2-3 hours).  
• 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Patients with impaired renal or hepatic function 
The  applicant  has  not  submitted  any  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  impaired 
renal/hepatic  function.  It  is  known  that  the  liver,  the  kidneys  and  the  muscles  are  primary  sites  of 
insulin  degradation.  Renal  and  hepatic  impairment  may  reduce  insulin  degradation  and  thus  reduce 
insulin requirements. 
Pregnancy and lactation 
No studies have been performed. Diabetes is associated with an increased risk of complications during 
pregnancy and congenital malformations in the baby. Optimising metabolic control before and during 
pregnancy can reduce this risk. For most of the patients with type 2 diabetes and all patients with type 
1 diabetes, insulin is the only way of optimising metabolic control. Insulin can be administered during 
pregnancy and lactation. 
• 
Interaction studies. 
No  formal  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  There  are  no  literature  reports  of  direct 
pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  insulin  and  other  products.  The  products  which  interfere  with 
glucose metabolism through various mechanisms are well identified. 
17/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Conclusion on pharmacokinetic studies. 
The fact that the maximum plasma concentration is reached within 1.5-2 hours after SC administration 
is  supported  by  the  results  from  the  studies  conducted  in  healthy volunteers. Absorption  is  different 
dependent on the injection sites and is fastest from the abdomen and slowest from the thigh.  
No  formal  distribution  studies  were  performed  with  Actrapid,  insulin  human.  It  is  established  that 
human insulin is not bound to plasma proteins unless circulating insulin antibodies are present. 
Metabolism  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  was  not  formally  investigated  as  well.  From  previously 
published  data  it  is  known  that  insulin  human  is  degraded  by  various  proteases.  The  degradation 
products are not active. Presumably, these degradation products are broken down into amino acids. 
The  half-life  after  subcutaneous  injection  is  determined  by  the  absorption  which  is  subject  to  an 
important inter-and intra-individual variation.  
The  applicant  has  not  submitted  any  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  impaired 
renal/hepatic function. Renal and hepatic impairment may reduce insulin degradation and thus reduce 
insulin requirements. 
Clinical efficacy  
Main study (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials). 
Table 10:  Phase III trials 
Studies 
Population 
Design 
Objectives 
(Number of patients) 
035/EU 
Type 1 diabetic patients 
(1070 patients enrolled in 
the study – 708 received 
rapid acting insulin aspart 
and 362 received Actrapid, 
insulin human ). 
Six-month multicentre 
multinational randomised 
parallel open-labelled 
036/US 
Type 1 diabetic patients 
(884 patients enrolled in the 
trial – 597 received rapid 
acting insulin aspart and 287 
Actrapid, insulin human ). 
Six-month multicentre 
randomised parallel open-
label study 
037/US 
Type 2 diabetic patients 
(182 patients were 
randomised, 91 to each 
treatment group). 
Six-month multicentre 
randomised parallel open-
label study.  
Compare the efficacy and 
safety of rapid acting insulin 
aspart and Actrapid, insulin 
human on glycaemic control 
as measured by HbA1c in 
type 1 diabetic subjects 
Compare the efficacy and 
the safety profile of rapid 
acting insulin aspart and 
Actrapid, insulin human in a 
multiple-injection regimen in 
patients with type 1 diabetes 
Compare the efficacy and 
the safety profile of rapid 
acting  insulin aspart and 
Actrapid, insulin human in a 
multiple injection. 
These studies include two 6-months multi-centres and open-labelled active-controlled trials performed 
in  type  1  diabetic  patients  and  one  6-months  multicentre  and  open-labelled  active-controlled  trial 
performed in type 2 diabetic patients.  
Studies performed in type 1 diabetic patients. 
• 
Study 035/EU 
Study  035/EU  was  a  six-month  multicentre  multinational  randomised  parallel  open-labelled  study 
comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  and  Actrapid,  insulin  human  on 
glycaemic control as measured by HbA1c in type 1 diabetic subjects.  
18/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Description of the study 
This study was a randomised open label parallel groups study. In addition to the comparison of effects 
of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  with  Actrapid,  insulin  human  on  the  glycaemic  control,  the  secondary 
objectives were the comparison of rapid acting insulin aspart with Actrapid, insulin human on 8-point 
blood glucose profiles after 6 months of treatment. 
The  safety  profiles  of  the  two  insulins  were  assessed  with  the  incidence  of  hypoglycaemic  episodes 
and adverse reactions during 6 months of treatment. Other biological parameters were also monitored. 
The duration of the treatment phase was 6 months. Patients included were required to have a type 1 
diabetes duration of at least 24 months, currently treated with insulin human in any treatment regimen 
for  at  least  12  months.  Finally,  the  patients  enrolled  in  the  study  had  the  following  characteristics: 
age ≥18 years, with a body mass index (BMI) ≤ 35 kg/m2 and an HBA1c ≤11.0%.  
Patients with impaired hepatic or renal function, cardiac disease, uncontrolled hypertension, recurrent 
severe hypoglycaemia, active proliferative retinopathy and patients with a need of a total insulin dose 
of ≥1.4 IU/kg were not included in this study. 
3. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The primary and secondary endpoints were described above. Secondary endpoints derived from the 8-
point BG profiles after 6 months of treatment were the prandial blood glucose increment after 3 meals 
(evaluated  as  the  difference  between  pre-and  post-meal  blood  glucose  values  averaged  over  the 
3 meals) and the variability of the 8-point blood glucose profile (the standard deviation of the blood 
glucose values at the 8 time points). 
4. 
Statistical analysis 
The trial was aimed at demonstrating a non-inferior efficacy of rapid acting insulin aspart as compared 
to Actrapid, insulin human.  
5. 
Study population 
A  total  of  1070  patients  were  randomised  in  the  study  (362  received  Actrapid,  insulin  human).  The 
safety  data  have  been  obtained  from  1065  patients  who  received  the  study  medications.  A  total  of 
1047  patients  defined  the  intent  to  treat  population  (described  in  ICH  E9  as  being  the  patients  who 
were  followed-up,  assessed  and  the  data  analysed  irrespective  of  their  compliance  to  the  planned 
course of treatment) (of these 349 received Actrapid, insulin human). Finally 1006 patients constituted 
the per protocol population (defined in ICH E9 as being the patients who complied sufficiently with 
the protocol to ensure that the data obtained with these patients reflected the effects of treatment) 332 
were  in  the  group  Actrapid,  insulin  human).  A  total  of  27  subjects  withdrew  during  treatment  with 
Actrapid.  
The treatment groups were comparable with respect to age, gender, race, weight, and body mass index 
(BMI) and smoking status of the patients enrolled in the study. This was also the case with respect to 
baseline  characteristics  (duration  of  diabetes,  HBA1c,  number  of  daily  basal  injections).  The  mean 
doses of insulin human and insulin aspart were similar at baseline, as well as were the mean doses of 
basal insulin.  
6. 
Efficacy results 
HbA1c levels remained relatively stable over the 6 months treatment with Actrapid, insulin human. 
19/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11:  Results from study 035/EU 
(Actrapid) 
N 
346 
Mean 
8.00 
(SEM) 
(0.04) 
329 
1.69 
(0.12) 
315 
345 
348 
2.84 
1.58 
0.69 
(0.07) 
(0.03) 
(0.01) 
HbA1c (%) 
Prandial  
BG Increment 
(mmol/l) 
BG Variability 
(mmol/l) 
Meal: basal 
Ratio 
Total Insulin 
(U/kg) 
All adjusted for baseline value and centre 
• 
Study 036/US 
Study 036/US was a six-month multicentre randomised parallel open-label study aimed at comparing 
the  efficacy  and  the  safety  profile  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  and  Actrapid,  insulin  human  in  a 
multiple-injection regimen in patients with type 1 diabetes. 
1. 
Description of the study 
The design of this study was identical to the design of the previous study. 
A total of 884 subjects were randomised in this trial (287 to Actrapid, insulin human). The intent to 
treat (ITT) population consisted of 279 in the insulin human treatment group. The per protocol (PP) 
population included a total of 257 patients for Actrapid, insulin human. A total of 24 subjects (8.4%) 
withdrew while on Actrapid. The rates of discontinuation due to the occurrence of adverse effects or 
lack of efficacy were low and were comparable for both treatments. 
Exactly like in the previous study the populations selected in the treatment groups were comparable 
(the criteria used to performed this comparison were identical to those used in study 035/EU). 
2. 
Efficacy results 
HbA1c levels remained relatively stable over the 6 months treatment with Actrapid, insulin human. 
Table 12:  Results from study 036/US 
HbA1c (%) 
Prandial BG 
increment (mmol/l) 
BG variability 
(mmol/l) 
Meal: basal ratio 
(Actrapid) 
N 
278 
Mean 
7.93  
(SEM) 
(0.05) 
259 
1.58 
(0.16) 
253 
273 
3.31 
1.86 
0.69 
(0.09) 
(0.05) 
(0.01) 
Total insulin (IU/kg) 
277 
All end points adjusted for baseline value and centre-ITT analyses 
The doses of meal related insulin remained almost constant over the treatment period. The mean basal 
insulin doses increased slightly from 0.25 IU/kg at baseline and at 3 months to 0.27 IU/kg at 6 months.  
20/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies performed in type 2 diabetic patients. 
• 
Study 037/US 
Study  037/US  was  six-month  multicentre  randomised  parallel  open-label  study.  It  was  aimed  at 
comparing  the  efficacy  and  the  safety  profile  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  and  Actrapid,  insulin 
human in a multiple injection regimen in subjects with type 2 diabetes. 
1. 
Description of the study 
The  design  of  this  trial  was  the  same  as  the  2  phase  III  trials  in  type  1  diabetic  patients.  The 
randomisation ratio was identical for rapid acting insulin aspart and for Actrapid, insulin human. The 
endpoints used to assess the clinical efficacy of the two products as well as the statistical methodology 
were identical. 
2. 
Study population 
A total of 182 subjects were randomised, 91 subjects to each of the 2 treatment groups. All of these 
were exposed to study drug. The intent to treat population (ITT) consisted of 177 patients 87 received 
the treatment with Actrapid, insulin human). The per protocol population (PP) included 156 patients 
(78 in each treatment group). A total of 9 (9.9%) subjects withdrew while receiving Actrapid, insulin 
human.  Three  patients  withdrew  due  to  an  adverse  event  (myocardial  infarction,  colon  carcinoma, 
cerebrovascular  disorder)  1  due  to  ineffective  therapy,  1  due  to  non-compliance  and  4  due  to  other 
(unspecified) reasons. 
Table 13:  Results from study 037/US 
(Actrapid) 
Mean 
(SEM) 
7.82 
(0.10) 
1.32 
2.78 
(0.20) 
(0.14) 
2.01 
(0.11) 
0.70 
(0.02) 
N 
86 
82 
80 
87 
87 
HbA1c (%) 
Prandial 
BG Increment (mmol/l) 
BG Variability (mmol/l) 
Mealrelated/ 
Basal Insulin Ratio 
Total Insulin (IU/kg) 
All adjusted for baseline value and centre, (ITT population) 
HbA1c levels remained relatively stable over the 6 months treatment with Actrapid, insulin human. 
• 
Intravenous  use  of  fast  acting  insulin  for  the  treatment  of  the  acute  complications  of 
diabetes or acute concurrent conditions. 
Severe hyperglycaemia in non-diabetic patients, including blood glucose levels in the diabetic range, 
detected in stress situations as infections, trauma, surgery and other catabolic conditions, is according 
to  WHO  criteria  of  diabetes  mellitus  not  diagnostic  for  diabetes.  A  recent  review  of  15  studies 
revealed  a  strong  association  between  stress  induced  hyperglycaemia  in  diabetic  as  well  as  non-
diabetic  patients  with  myocardial  infarction,  and  an  increased  risk  of  in-hospital  mortality  and 
morbidity,  suggesting  that  glucose  is  an  important  risk  factor  for  morbidity  and  mortality  after 
myocardial  infarction  also  in  non  diabetic  patients  (The  Lancet  355:  773-78,  2000).  It  should  be 
emphasised  that  these  studies  are  observational  studies,  from  which  it  cannot  be  concluded  that 
reversal of the hyperglycaemia improves clinical outcome. 
Likewise, another recent published observational study of 2030 patients admitted to general wards in-
hospital revealed association between hyperglycemia and poor clinical outcome and mortality among 
patients with known diabetes as well as in patients without known diabetes (J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
87: 978-82,2002). 
21/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  Diabetes  and  Insulin-Glucose  infusion  in  Acute  Myocardial  Infarction  (DIGAMI)  study 
hyperglycaemic  patients  with  myocardial  infarction  were  randomised  to  intensified  insulin  therapy 
with  insulin-glucose  infusion  followed  by  multi  dose  insulin  regime  or  routine  anti  diabetic  therapy 
(J Am Coll Cardiol 26:57-65, 1995). Intensified insulin therapy improved long term prognosis in these 
patients. The study population comprised known diabetics as well as 10% unknown diabetics or stress 
induced hyperglycaemic patients. Whether the conclusion drawn from the study also applies to non-
diabetic stress induced hyperglycaemic patients was not revealed. 
A  meta-analysis  of  all  properly  randomised  trials  of  infusion  of  glucose-insulin-potassium  (GIK)  in 
patients with myocardial infarction, involving about 2000 patients, showed a reduction in mortality of 
28% in patients receiving this therapy (Circulation 96:1152-56, 1997). Later, another randomised (not 
blinded) pilot study of 407 patients with myocardial infarction revealed a 66% reduction in the relative 
in-hospital  mortality  in  patients  receiving  high-dose  GIK  therapy  compared  to  the  control  group 
(Circulation 98: 2227-2234, 1998). There were, however, no differences in glucose levels between the 
groups and the study was not designed to reduce plasma glucose. Nevertheless these findings suggest 
that metabolic modulations with GIK infusion after myocardial infarction are highly beneficial.  
In  a  newly  published  study  from  van  den  Berghe  et  al.  (N  Engl  J  Med  345:1359-67,  2001)  the 
question whether normalisation of blood glucose levels with intensive insulin therapy in critically ill 
patients  with  hyperglycaemia  improves  prognosis,  was  addressed.  The  study  was  a  randomised 
prospective controlled study including 1548 patients (2500 patients was planned to be enrolled, but the 
study  was  terminated  prematurely  after  12  month).  The  study  population  comprised  critically  ill 
patients  admitted  to  a  surgical  intensive  care  unit  (ICU).  Only  surgical  patients  were  studied,  two 
thirds  of  the  patients  were  cardiac  surgical  patients  needing  mechanically  ventilatory  assistance  and 
13% of the study population had a history of diabetes. The patients were randomly assigned to receive 
intensive  insulin  therapy  (maintenance  of  blood  glucose  in  the  level  4.4  –  6.1  mmol/l)  or  to 
conventional treatment (insulin infusion when blood glucose exceeded 12 mmol/l). Primary outcome 
measure  was  death  from  any  cause  during  intensive  care.  Secondary  outcomes  include  death  in 
hospital,  number  of  days  in  hospital,  number  of  days  in  ICU,  need  for  ventilatory  support,  renal 
replacement therapy or other support and markers of infection and inflammation.  
At  12  month  the  ICU  mortality  was  4.6%  in  the  intervention  group  compared  to  8%  in  the 
conventionally treated group, yielding a significant risk reduction in mortality of 42 %. Similarly, the 
in-hospital  mortality  was  significantly  reduced  in  the  intervention  group  (risk  reduction  of  34  % 
compared to control group). The significant effect on mortality appeared only in patients treated more 
than 5 days therapy in ICU. Also, morbidity was reduced in the intervention group compared to the 
conventionally treated group. Intensive insulin therapy reduced the duration of admission in the ICU, 
length  of  requirement  of  ventilatory  support  and  renal  replacement  therapy.  Also  episodes  of 
septicaemia were significantly reduced in this group. 
Hypoglycaemia defined as blood glucose of 2.2 mmol/ or less occurred in 39 in the intervention group 
and  in  6  patients  in  the  control  group.  No  instances  of  convulsions  or  haemodynamic  deterioration 
were observed. 
Although these results seem convincing, criticism can be raised. With respect to the interpretation and 
conclusion  of  this  study  a  major  concern  is  that  the  study  was  not  blinded  and  was  carried  out  in  a 
single  intensive  care  unit.  Furthermore,  the  study  population  represent  a  highly  selected  group  of 
intensive  care  patients  (major  surgery).  These  patients  are  not  directly  comparable  with  patients 
admitted  to  common  intensive  care  units,  where  patients  suffering  from  different  non-surgical 
disorders  comprise  a  considerable  fraction.  Therefore,  although  the  results  of  this  study  are  of  great 
interest  and  may  have  important  implications  for  the  treatment  of  stress  induced  non-diabetic 
hyperglycaemia, interpretation and generalisation of the results should be done with caution. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus  with  insulin  has  been  established  for  many  decades.  It  is  a  life 
saving  treatment  for  patients  with  type  1  diabetes  and  is  required  by  many  patients  with  type  2 
diabetes. 
It  is  not  possible  to  mimic  the  physiological  plasma  insulin  profiles;  human  insulin  tends  to  self-
associate in a hexameric form after injection into the subcutaneous issue resulting in a relatively slow 
22/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
absorption.  Insulin  human  may  be  given  intravenously  (e.g.  in  diabetic  ketoacidosis)  and 
intramuscularly  but  is  predominantly  administered  subcutaneously.  No  standard  scheme  of 
administration exists and doses to obtain an optimal glycaemic control vary individually. Several large 
studies  have  demonstrated  that  best  results  not  only  on  glycaemic  control  but  also  on  long-term 
microvascular complications are obtained in both type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients with intensified 
regimens, i.e. either with an insulin pump providing continuously subcutaneous insulin infusion or by 
injecting human insulin three or more times to the meals guided by frequent blood glucose monitoring 
in addition to a long- or very-long acting insulin injected once or twice daily covering the basal insulin 
requirements. (see for further reference: The Diabetes control and complications trial research group: 
The  effect  of  intensive  treatment  of  diabetes  on  the  development  and  progression  of  long-term 
complications  in  insulin  dependent  diabetes  mellitus.  N  Engl  J  Med  1993,329:14-23  and  UKPDS 
group:  Intensive  blood  glucose-control  with  sulphonylureas  or  insulin  compared  with  conventional 
treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes. Lancet 1998.352:837-53.) 
The assessment  of efficacy of Actrapid  is  based on previously reported studies comparing Actrapid, 
insulin human and rapid acting insulin aspart. These studies are uncontrolled as far as the efficacy of 
Actrapid  is  concerned.  The  absence  of  controlled  trials  is  acceptable  as  it  would  be  unethical  to 
perform a placebo controlled study and since insulin (especially fast acting insulin) is the mainstay in 
treatment  of  diabetes.  The  data  obtained  from  uncontrolled  studies  from  the  studies  performed  with 
rapid acting insulin aspart does however provide evidence of the long-term efficacy of insulin human. 
In  three  open-label,  6-month  treatment  studies  in  type  1  and  2  diabetes  patients,  comparing  the 
efficacy  of  rapid  acting  insulin  aspart  with  Actrapid,  insulin  human  a  total  of  2136  patients  were 
randomised.  Seven  hundred  and  forty  patients  received  a  treatment  with  Actrapid.  Patients  were 
moderately well controlled at baseline In studies 036/US and 035/EU the mean HbA1c at baseline was 
equal  to  7.87%  [the  standard  deviations  were  respectively  1.25  and  1.6  in  studies  036/US  and 
035/EU]. The mean HbA1c was equal to 7.83% (1.08) in study 037/EU. The duration of the diabetes 
was long-standing in all trials, with an average of 15-16 years for the type 1 diabetic patients and 13 
years  in  the  type  2  patients.  Patients  with  major  secondary  complications  were,  however,  excluded. 
Recommended injection sites were abdomen for the meal-related insulin and thigh for basal insulin.  
The present studies demonstrate that acceptable glycaemic control can be maintained with Actrapid as 
meal-time related bolus injections in combination with long-acting insulins. 
Existing data from intervention studies in diabetic patients have shown that intensive insulin treatment 
of hyperglycemia improve long-term prognosis in patients with myocardial infarction. Furthermore a 
range  of  observational  studies  in  non-diabetic  hyperglycaemic  patients  strongly  indicate  that  blood 
glucose  represent  a  significant  risk  factor  for  mortality  and  morbidity  after  myocardial  infarction. 
Furthermore, accumulating data suggests that GIK infusion in non-diabetic patients with myocardial 
infarction  is  beneficial.  Also  very  recent  data  suggests  but  does  not  prove  that  maintenance  of 
normoglycemia in non-diabetic critically ill patients, improve survival and reduce risk of infections. In 
conclusion,  from  a  strict  regulatory  perspective  the  present  data,  although  very  suggestive,  does  not 
allow a firm conclusion on the benefit of treatment of stress induced hyperglycaemia in non-diabetic 
subjects and for that reason it is not considered appropriate to include this indication. 
From  a  clinical  perspective  the  distinction  between  stress  induced  hyperglycaemia  in  non-diabetics 
and  diabetics  is  somewhat  academic.  During  acute  stress  situations  hyperglycemic  patients  with 
previous  unknown  diabetes  may  not  be  distinguished  from  non-diabetic  patients  with  transitory 
hyperglycemia.  
23/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus most acutely ill patients with hyperglycaemia will receive insulin as diabetes cannot be ruled out 
until after the acute disease. This practical approach is considered covered by the simplified indication 
“treatment of diabetes”. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
A  total  of  644  patients  with  type  1  diabetes  received  Actrapid,  insulin  human.  An  additional  91 
patients with type 2 diabetes received Actrapid, insulin human). Few subjects were excluded from the 
trials due to the occurrence of adverse events, five type 1 diabetic patients receiving Actrapid, insulin 
human (<1%) three (3%) type 2 diabetics receiving Actrapid, insulin human. 
In addition, an important marketing experience with human insulins has been gathered. Since 1993 an 
estimated total of 25.35 million person years representing at least 6.5 million individual patients have 
been  exposed  to  these  human  insulins  (this  estimate  is  based  on  the  sales  figures  and  assuming  an 
average of 42 IU insulin per diabetic patient per day, see paragraph post-marketing experience below). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  low  in  studies  performed  in  type  1  diabetic  patients  (studies 
035/EU and 036/US). 
In  study  037/US  conducted  in  type  2  diabetic  patients  a  total  of  9  (9.9%)  subjects  withdrew  while 
treated with Actrapid, insulin human. Of these 3 patients withdrew from the insulin human group due 
to an adverse event (myocardial infarction, colon carcinoma, cerebrovascular disorder). 
Hypoglycaemic reactions 
Studies performed in type 1 diabetic patients - Study 035/EU 
The  incidence  of  major  hypoglycaemic  episodes  (defined  as  requiring  intravenous  glucose  or 
glucagon)  is  shown  below.  The  major  hypoglycaemic  episodes  predominantly  occurred  in  the  early 
morning hours (0-4 a.m.). 
Figure 6:  Frequency of major hypoglycaemic episodes 
Approximately  75%  of  the  patients  treated  with  insulin  human  experienced  minor  hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Number of Major Hypoglycaemic Episodes 
Study 036/US 
Nineteen percent of subjects treated with Actrapid, insulin human experienced a major hypoglycaemic 
episode. Approximately 8% of these had more than 1 major hypoglycaemic episode in the treatment 
phase, often during the early morning hours (0-8 a.m.). 
24/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eighty  five  percent  of  subjects  in  the  human  insulin  group  experienced  a  minor  hypoglycaemic 
episode. 
Studies performed in type 2 diabetic patients - Study 037/US 
The proportion of patients receiving insulin human who experienced a major hypoglycaemic episode 
was approximately 5.5%. Minor hypoglycaemic episodes occurred in about 64% of the patients treated 
with human insulin. The mean rate of minor hypoglycaemic episodes was the highest in the afternoon.  
Overall  on  these  studies,  major  hypoglycaemic  events  occurred  less  frequently  in  type  2  diabetic 
patients. 
Table 14:  Frequencies  of  adverse  events 
(SAEs)  and 
hypoglycaemic episodes observed in the clinical trials performed in type 1 (035/EU – 
036/US) and type 2 (037/US) diabetic patients. In the table Actrapid, insulin human is 
denoted by HI. 
(AEs),  serious  adverse  events 
Type 1 diabetic 
subjects (studies 
035/EU and 036/US 
are combined) 
HI (n=644) 
Type 2 diabetic 
subjects (study 
037/US) 
HI (n=91) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
All AEs 
SAEs 
Hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Major  
A 
B 
468(73%) 1554 
36 (6%) 
41 
71 (78%)  221 
7 (8%) 
9 
120(19%) 309 
5 (5%) 
8 
272 
37 
4 
1 
7 
1 
Minor 
10647 
58 
677 
Major A=requiring third party help 
Major B=requiring i.v. glucose or glucagon treatment 
Antibody formation 
In study 035/EU Actrapid, insulin human specific antibodies were rare. 
Other adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths observed in the clinical trials 
The  most  frequent  adverse  events  were  upper  respiratory  tract  infections  (by  more  than  20%  of 
patients  in  each  treatment  group),  headache  and  accidental  injuries  (>10%  of  patients),  pharyngitis, 
sinusitis, nausea, diarrhoea, and back pain (each of these reactions were observed in more than 5% of 
the  patients).  The  most  frequent  serious adverse reactions in type 1 diabetic patients  were related  to 
glycaemic  control,  in  type  2  patients  the  most  frequent  serious  events  were  cardiovascular  events, 
unlikely related to trial medication. No deaths occurred. There were no consistent trends or significant 
changes from baseline in laboratory tests. 
Post-marketing experience 
An  extensive  post-marketing  experience  (more  than  31  million  patient  years  of  exposure)  has  been 
gathered  with  human  insulin  since  1988  when  the  first  genetically  engineered  human  insulin  was 
marketed. Two periodic safety update reports (PSURs) covering the period from March 1993 to end of 
June 2000 have been assessed. 
Since the report from Teuscher and Berger (Hypoglycaemia unawareness in diabetics transferred from 
beef/porcine  insulin  to  human  insulin.  Lancet  1987,  ii.382-5)  there  had  been  focus  on  diminished 
25/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
awareness of hypoglycaemia after changing from animal insulin to human insulin. A review of clinical 
and epidemiological studies prepared by the applicant could not support this hypothesis, neither could 
an update of this paper including literature research up to May 1997 could either. 
The  most  common  reactions  were  hyper-  and  hypoglycaemia,  injection  site  reaction  and  pain, 
therapeutic response decreased, allergic reaction and rash or pruritus. 
A  total  of  29  serious  adverse  reaction  reports  were  classified  as  serious  unlisted.  Of  these  a  total  of 
three  cases  of  toxic  epidermal  necrolysis/Stevens  Johnson  syndrome  have  been  reported.  As  of  30 
August  2000,  a  total  of  6  cases  of  epidermal  necrolysis/Stevens  Johnson  syndrome/erythema 
multiforme  have  been  reported  in  association  with  Actrapid.  In  5  of  these  cases  concomitant 
medication provided a more likely explanation than insulin human. 
In the last PSUR (1999-2000), the Company received 20 reports of impaired liver function (9 of these 
being serious). All these cases occurred in Japan. No reports on impaired liver function were received 
from other countries. Such reports have already been published (especially increased liver enzymes in 
patients  with  non-insulin  dependant  diabetes  mellitus)  and  they  are  generally  associated  with 
overweight. According to evidence from three studies liver enzyme increases are most likely related to 
diabetes  mellitus  non  insulin-dependent/treatment  with  oral  antidiabetic  agents  but  not  to  insulin. 
Many of the reports involved semisynthetic, - but not genetically engineered insulin. The hypothesis 
of  an  idiosyncratic  reaction  was  ruled  out  by  the  Company  since  no  other  signs  of  hypersensitivity 
were observed and no eosinophile granulocytes were found in the biopsies.  
During the reporting period, two changes have been made in the summary of product characteristics 
for  safety reasons:  a more detailed description of the symptoms of hypo- and hyperglycaemia and a 
more  detailed  description  of  possible  generalised  hypersensitivity  reactions.  Apart  from  these 
amendments, no regulatory or manufacturer actions have been taken for safety reasons. 
Based on the review of the safety data from the extensive post marketing experience, no new safety 
issue to be included in the product information was identified. The most frequent adverse reactions are 
hypo-or hyperglycaemia. The safety profile of Actrapid is well characterised. 
4. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Viral  Safety  and  Batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Effects  seen  in  the  original  and  newer  safety  pharmacology  studies  can  all  be  related  to 
hypoglycaemia.  The  toxic  effects  seen  in  the  single  dose  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were 
attributed to the hypoglycaemic activity and thus an exaggerated pharmacological effect caused by the 
high  doses  of  the  insulin. Increased  weight,  depressed activity, convulsions and death  were some of 
these effects. An increase in the number of benign mammary adenomas and fibroadenomas has been 
shown in Sprague Dawley rats. In one 12 months study, there was a statistically significant increase of 
female  animals  bearing  benign  and  malign  mammary  gland  tumours  at  the  highest  dose.  It  is 
concluded  that  the  increased  incidence  of  mammary  tumours  seen  in  rats  is  probably  caused  by 
mitogenic and growth-promoting action via the insulin receptor, but is probably also related to the fact 
that Sprague Dawley rats are especially sensitive and were given large doses. There was no increase of 
mammary gland hyperplasia or tumours in the 12 months dog study.  
26/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  immunogenicity  in  rabbits  of  insulin 
human  rDNA  and  semi  synthetic  insulins.  These  insulins  were  found  to  be  significantly  less 
immunogenic  than  5  times  crystallised  pork  insulin.  The  potential  for  human  antibody  production 
against insulin human is thus considered to be low.  
It is concluded that newer studies conducted do not give reason for new safety concerns. 
Efficacy 
The  studies  demonstrating  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  are 
recent  studies  performed  with  the  rapid  acting  insulin  analogue  insulin  aspart  with  Actrapid,  insulin 
human as comparator (in most cases). The studies conducted in healthy volunteers, type 1 and type 2 
diabetic  patients  mainly  by  using  the  euglycaemic  clamp  technique,  confirm  the  glucose  lowering 
action of Actrapid. The studies performed in healthy subjects support the conclusions made in the SPC 
on the onset of action (within ½ hour), duration of action (approximately 7-8 hours) and the time of 
the maximum effect (within1.5-3.5 hours after injection).  
The  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus  with  fast-acting  insulin  preparations  such  as  Actrapid  has  been 
established  for  many  decades.  It  is  a  lifesaving  treatment  for  patients  with  type  1  diabetes  and  is 
required  by  many  patients  with  type  2  diabetes.  Several  large  studies  have  demonstrated  that  best 
results not only on glycaemic control but also on long-term microvascular complications are obtained 
in both type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients with intensified regimens. 
The  ”proof”  of  the  efficacy  of  Actrapid,  insulin  human  is  based  on  previously  reported  studies 
comparing Actrapid, insulin human and insulin aspart. In essence these studies are uncontrolled as far 
as  the  efficacy  of  Actrapid  is  concerned.  The  lack  of  controlled  trials  is  considered  acceptable  as  it 
would be unethical to perform a placebo controlled study, and as insulin, especially fast acting insulin, 
is  the  mainstay  in  treatment  of  diabetes  one  can  hardly  imagine  what  should  be  chosen  as  active 
comparator.  The  “uncontrolled”  data  from  the  NovoRapid,  insulin  aspart  studies  does  however 
provide evidence of the long-term efficacy of Actrapid, insulin human. 
The present studies demonstrate that acceptable glycaemic control can be maintained with Actrapid as 
meal-time related bolus injections in combination with long-acting insulins. 
Safety 
An  extensive  post-marketing  experience  has  been  gained  concerning  human  insulin.  The  post 
marketing information is collected in two PSURs, the first covering the period 1st March 1993 to 31th 
August 1998 and the second covering the period  1st September 1998 to 30th June 2000. The safety 
profile of Actrapid is well characterised and acceptable.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based  on  the  submitted  documentation  pharmacodynamic  and  clinical  data  as  well  as  the  well-
established  use  of  fast  acting  human  insulin,  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Actrapid  is  considered 
adequately demonstrated. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Actrapid was favourable in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. 
27/27 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
