Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for ADASUVE 
(Loxapine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ADASUVE. The RMP details important 
risks  of  ADASUVE,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about ADASUVE's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
ADASUVE's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ADASUVE should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for ADASUVE should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
ADASUVE's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
ADASUVE  is authorised for  the rapid  control  of  mild-to-moderate agitation  in adult patients 
with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains loxapine 
as the active substance and it is given by inhalation. 
Further information about the evaluation of  ADASUVE’s benefits can be found in ADASUVE’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/adasuve link to 
product’s EPAR summary landing page on the EMA webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of ADASUVE, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about ADASUVE's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
In the case of ADASUVE, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may  affect the  safe use  of ADASUVE is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of ADASUVE are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ADASUVE. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Bronchospasm 
Important potential risks 
• 
Interaction between loxapine and medicinal products 
known to prolong QTc interval, including other 
antipsychotic agents 
Missing information 
•  Off-label use during extended periods of time 
•  Safety in repeated use (multiple doses and/or multiple 
cycles) 
•  Safety in patients with underlying cardiovascular 
disease 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Bronchospasm 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk 
The  evidence  of  the  risk  of  bronchospasm  arose  from  the 
to the medicine 
specific studies 004-105 (asthma) and 004-108 (COPD), in 
addition  to  the  randomized,  blinded  trials.  These  identified 
the population at risk for bronchospasm, the nature of the 
bronchospasm  events,  and  the  response  to  bronchodilator 
treatment. 
Post-marketing experience. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The SmPC contraindicates use of ADASUVE in patients with 
acute  respiratory  signs/symptoms  (eg,  wheezing)  or  with 
active  airways  disease  (such  as  patients  with  asthma  or 
COPD). 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Important identified risk: Bronchospasm 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
SmPC  section  4.2  indicates  the  hospital-setting 
administration of ADASUVE. 
SmPC  section  4.2  where  short-acting  beta-agonist 
bronchodilator treatment should be available. 
SmPC 
section  4.3  where  administration 
is 
contraindicated  in  patients  with  acute  respiratory 
signs/symptoms or with active airways disease.  
SmPC  section  4.4  on  observation  of  patients  after 
ADASUVE administration. 
PL  section  2  details  the  symptoms  of  airways 
narrowing. 
PL section 2 where advice is given on informing the 
physician in case of respiratory events. 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Education material for Healthcare Professionals. 
Important potential risk: Interaction between loxapine and medicinal products 
known to prolong QTc interval, including other antipsychotic agents 
Evidence for linking the risk 
The events of QT prolongation and Torsade de pointes have 
to the medicine 
been  associated  with  non-sedating  antihistamines, 
antibiotics, 
antipsychotics, 
antidepressants 
and 
a 
gastrointestinal  pro-kinetic  agent  and  drugs  within  these 
classes  constitute  the  vast  majority  of  non-cardiovascular 
compounds  associated  with  these  potentially  serious  side-
effects  (¡Error!  No  se  encuentra  el  origen  de  la 
referencia., 2003). 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients  concomitantly  receiving  medicinal  product  which 
may  prolong  QTc  interval,  including  other  antipsychotic 
agents. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC  section  4.4  where  caution  administering 
ADASUVE in patients in concomitant use with other 
medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval 
is recommended. 
PL  section  2  advises  to  inform  in  case  of  heart 
problems. 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Education material for Healthcare Professionals. 
 
Missing information: Off-label use during extended periods of time 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
SmPC  section  4.2  where  posology  information  is 
provided.  
PL section 3 where posology information is provided.  
Legal status: restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Education material for Healthcare Professionals. 
Missing information: Safety in repeated use (multiple doses and/or multiple 
cycles) 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC  section  4.2  where  posology  information  is 
provided.  
PL section 3 where posology information is provided.  
Legal status: restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Education material for Healthcare Professionals. 
Missing information: Safety in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 where recommendation on not to 
use ADASUVE in patients with known cardiovascular 
diseases is provided  
Legal status: restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Education material for Healthcare Professionals. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of ADASUVE. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no on-going or planned studies. 
 
 
 
