12 October 2023 
EMA/OD/0000136638  
EMADOC-1700519818-1160856 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Adcetris (Monoclonal antibody against human CD30 covalently linked to the 
cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E) 
Treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma 
EU/3/08/596 
Sponsor: Takeda Pharma A/S     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Un on   
“© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.” 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
2.2. Amendment of an existing orphan medicinal product designation ................................................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 7 
4. COMP position adopted on 19 September 2023 ..................................... 10 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Monoclonal antibody against human CD30 covalently 
linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E 
Other name(s) 
Adcetris, Monoclonal antibody against human CD30 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Brentuximab vedotin 
covalently linked to the cytotoxin 
monomethylauristatin E  
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Adcetris 
Treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma  
Takeda Pharma A/S   
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Hovedstaden 
Denmark 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Seattle Genetics UK Limited 
8 October 2008 
15 January 2009 
EU/3/08/596 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Seattle Genetics UK Limited to Takeda 
Global Research and Development Centre (Europe) 
Ltd – EC decision of 28 September 2010 
Transfer from Takeda Global Research and 
Development Centre (Europe) Ltd to Takeda Pharma 
A/S – EC decision of 21 October 2013 
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Johann Lodewijk Hillege / Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Takeda Pharma A/S   
8 March 2023 
25 March 2023 
EMA/H/C/002455/II/0107 
Adcetris 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of adult patients with previously untreated 
CD30+ Stage III or IV Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) in 
combination with doxorubicin, vinblastine and 
dacarbazine (AVD).  
Further information on Adcetris can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
CHMP opinion 
R/Adcetris 
14 September 2023 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteurs 
Sponsor’s report submission 
COMP discussion  
Elisabeth Johanne Rook / Frauke Naumann-Winter 
6 April 2023 
11-13 July 2023  
COMP opinion (adoption via written 
19 September 2023 
procedure) 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2008 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
•  Hodgkin lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 1 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
• 
• 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening due to the poor long-term prognosis in 
patients that progress during or shortly after initial chemotherapy  
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that monoclonal antibody against human CD30 
covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E may be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. 
2.2.  Amendment of an existing orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the amendment of the orphan medicinal product designation 
in 2023 was based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The COMP concluded that:  
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of Hodgkin lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be approximately 4 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening due to the poor long-term prognosis in 
patients that progress during or shortly after initial chemotherapy; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Adcetris may be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the 
orphan condition still holds. The applicant has provided clinical data in the first line treatment of 
advanced Hodgkin lymphoma, that show improved progression free survival when the product is 
added on to AVD versus that obtained with ABVD, the latter being one of the two standard of care 
regimens; 
• 
the committee also considered that (escalated) BEACOPP, the other standard of care, is used in 
younger patients, due to the increasing treatment related mortality with age and as attested by the 
respective European practice guidelines. In contrast, there is no age restriction with respect to the 
use of Adcetris. The COMP considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), formerly called Hodgkin's disease, arises from germinal center or post-
germinal center B cells, and is characterised by a minority of neoplastic cells (Reed-Sternberg cells and 
their variants) in an inflammatory background. Young adults aged 20–40 years are most often affected 
(Annals of Oncology 29 (Supplement 4): iv19–iv29, 201). 
There are two groups of HL, namely classical, and nodular lymphocyte predominant HL. Although the 
classification of Hodgkin lymphomas (HLs) has not changed, the 2016 revision of the World Health 
Organization classification of lymphoid neoplasms will include updates concerning nodular lymphocyte–
predominant HL (NLPHL) (Swerdlow, Blood 2016 127:2375-2390). Most patients present with a 
painless localized peripheral lymphadenopathy, typically in the cervical area, while systemic 
manifestations such as B-symptomatology (fever, drenching night sweats, weight loss) and pruritus 
may also be present.  Mediastinal masses are also frequent and are sometimes discovered after 
routine chest x-ray.  
The Ann Arbor staging classification for Hodgkin lymphoma defines stage I as involvement of a single 
nodal region or organ, stage II as involvement of two or more regions on the same side of the 
diaphragm, stage III as involvement of nodal regions on both sides of the diaphragm, and stage IV as 
diffuse extralymphatic involvement. The presence of high fevers, night sweats, or significant weight 
loss designates any given stage as “B” (e.g., IIB). 
The approved extension of the therapeutic indication is “ADCETRIS is indicated for the frontline 
treatment of adult patients with CD30+ Stage III and Stage IV Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) in 
combination with doxorubicin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (AVD)” falls within the scope of the 
designated orphan indication “treatment of Hodgkin Lymphoma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP, see 
EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The sponsor has not identified any change in the seriousness of the condition since the designation, 
nor the initial authorisation, which is supported. 
Mortality from HL has been progressively decreasing with recent 5-year survival rates of more than 
80%, (Gobbi et al. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2013 Feb;85(2):216-37 Eichenauer et al, Ann Oncol 
(2014) 25 (suppl 3): iii70-iii75) but the condition is still chronically debilitating and life threatening, in 
particular in patients with refractory or relapsed disease. For stage III, the 5 years survival is about 
80%, whereas this is 65% for Stage IV.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
 
 
The likelihood of achieving a complete response to treatment and a sustained remission diminishes 
with second and subsequent relapses, while outcomes following treatment for refractory HL are even 
less favourable than following relapses. In patients who are able to undergo autologous HCT, long-
term survival can approach 50% percent (Moskowitz, Br J Haematol. 2004;124(5):645).  
The COMP considers the condition chronically debilitating and life threatening, particularly in advanced 
disease stage. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor proposes a prevalence estimate of 4.3 per 10,000 persons. 
This estimate is slightly higher than the previously accepted prevalence estimate of 4 per 10,000 
persons and is based on data for Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) from 31 European countries, i.e. the EU27 
member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and United Kingdom. For this procedure only the 
data for overall HL was considered. The sponsor had also submitted data on the prevalence for 
classical HL (cHL) and stage III and IV cHL.  
The final prevalence estimates were calculated indirectly based on the following methodology: 
• 
Incidence was first calculated for each country from national sources as far as possible. Sources for 
incidence included: the National Cancer Registry of Germany, the National Cancer Registry of 
Bulgaria, National Cancer Registry of Netherlands, the Office of National Statistics of UK estimates, 
, Public Health France, Belgian Cancer Registry, Croatian National Cancer Registry, Czech National 
Cancer Registry, National Cancer Registry of Ireland, Cancer Registry of Slovenia, National 
Oncology Registry of Portugal, IARC, NORDCAN. For countries with no specific incidence data, 
extrapolations were made from the countries with available data.  
•  With regards to disease duration/survival, data from the “Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results database”, (SEER 1992-2019 and SEER 2000-2019) were used. From both the SEER 
incidence and limited duration prevalence, the mean disease duration was calculated at the 5-, 10-
, and 20- year time frame (under the assumptions of stable incidence and duration of the 
condition, the functional relationship between point prevalence (P), incidence (I) and mean 
duration (D) is commonly expressed as P = I  x D). 
To estimate the prevalent population for HL, the applicant multiplied the country-specific incidence 
estimates with 5-, 10-, and 20-year mean duration (D) to estimate the 5-, 10-, and 20-year country-
specific prevalence respectively. The sponsor’s proposed prevalence estimate of 4.3 per 10,000 
persons represents the 20-year prevalence for HL. This was also accepted by the COMP during the 
initial orphan designation review based on the assumed duration of up to approximately 20 years 
(Bessell, Bouliotis et al. British Journal of Cancer (2012) 107, 531–5362012).  
The COMP pointed out that the proposed 20-year prevalence estimate of 4.3 per 10,000 persons still 
includes a non-EU/EEA country. The sponsor has also provided an analysis without the data from this 
non-EU/EEA country which resulted in a slightly lower 20-year prevalence estimate of 4.2 per 10,000 
persons. 
The committee accepted a 20-year prevalence estimate of 4.2 per 10,000 persons. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The recommended therapeutic algorithm for newly diagnosed Hodgkin's lymphoma revolves around 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy and is reflected in detail in the latest ESMO treatment guideline from 
2018 (Eichenauer et al. Annals of Oncology 2018, 29 S4 iv19–iv29). In this report, only those 
chemotherapies/regimens will be discussed which constitute the current standard of care in the applied 
for target population of Adcetris.  
In the frontline setting, combination chemotherapy (ChT) regimens with ABVD (adriamycin, bleomycin, 
vinblastine, dacarbazine) and/or BEACOPP (bleomycin/ etoposide/ doxorubicin/ cyclophosphamide/ 
vincristine/ procarbazine/ prednisone) or escalated BEACOPP are regarded as standard of care 
regimens in the EU in adult patients with advanced-stage classical HL. However, the BEACOPP regimen 
should not be given to the patients > 60 years. Therefore, ABVD-based ChT represents the standard of 
care for older HL patients who are fit enough for multi-agent ChT. 
Significant benefit 
For demonstrating significant benefit versus ABVD, reference is made to the pivotal trial ECHELON-1.  
ECHELON-1 (Study C25003) is a randomized, open-label, phase 3 study which compared the efficacy 
and safety between the standard of care ChT regimen ABVD (doxorubicin [Adriamycin], bleomycin, 
vinblastine, and dacarbazine; n=670) with the modified ChT regimen in which bleomycin was 
substituted with Adcetris (A+AVD; n=664) in patients with Stage III or Stage IV classical HL. The 
primary endpoint was modified progression-free survival (mPFS) by independent review. Overall 
survival (OS) was the key secondary endpoint.  
In 2019, Adcetris in combination with AVD was authorised for an extension of indication to first line 
treatment in Stage IV Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). At that time, the Marketing Authorisation Holder did 
not apply for the Stage III HL indication as in this subset, there were uncertainties regarding the 
benefits in this subgroup. Based on the 2017 first interim analysis of the pivotal study, the OS HR was 
1.216 (95% CI 0.563-2.630) in this subgroup, although there was a tendency for improved mPFS in 
this subgroup.  
The CHMP agreed, in a Protocol Assistance, that the sponsor could resubmit data from the ECHELON 
study after longer term follow-up (5 years, when minimum event of 103 are achieved).  The CHMP now 
approved the extension of indication to Stage III HL, based on the results from the second interim 
analysis in 2021 of the ECHELON-1 extension study.  
The efficacy conclusions from the 2021 interim analysis are as follows: 
Analyses by disease stage (III or IV) show a consistent strong PFS per investigator and OS result 
among patients with Stage IV cHL that has been maintained over a longer follow-up duration.  
Among the 846 ITT population patients with Stage IV disease, the PFS per investigator HR as of the 
2017 analysis was 0.705 (95% CI 0.530, 0.937; descriptive p=0.203). As of this analysis, PFS per 
investigator for patients with Stage IV disease now shows a comparable HR of 0.717 with the upper 
boundary of the 95% CI remaining below unity (95% CI 0.534-0.959, descriptive p-value=0.024). 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, treatment with A+AVD provided a durable efficacy benefit in ITT population patients with 
treatment-naïve Stage III and IV cHL which is supported by the subgroup analyses of either disease 
stage subgroup, including patients with Stage III cHL. 
There was a higher incidence of neuropathic events on the A+ AVD study arm as compared to the 
ABVD arm (67% vs 43%), of which 86% waned off at longer follow-up. On the other hand, the 
mortality rate was higher for the ABVD group. In conclusion, the COMP considered that Adcetris may 
be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the orphan condition. The sponsor has provided 
updated clinical data in the first line treatment of stage III and stage IV classical Hodgkin lymphoma, 
that show improved progression free survival when the product is added on to AVD versus that 
obtained with the ABVD standard of care chemotherapy regimen. The COMP considered that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
With regards to the second standard of care treatment option the (escalated) BEACOPP chemotherapy 
regimen, the committee also considered that this is only recommended in younger patients, due to the 
increasing treatment related mortality with age and as laid down in European practice guidelines. In 
contrast, there is no age restriction with respect to the use of Adcetris. About 14% of the study 
population of the ECHELON study consisted of elderly, and also in this subgroup there was a tendency 
for improved mPFS response, without aberrant safety problems as compared to younger patients.  
In conclusion, the sponsor has provided clinical data in the first line treatment of Stage III and Stage 
IV Hodgkin lymphoma, that show improved progression free survival and overall survival when the 
product is added to AVD (adriamycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) versus that obtained with the standard of 
care regimen ABVD (adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine). The COMP considered that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 19 September 2023 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product. 
the prevalence of Hodgkin lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 4.2 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening particularly in advanced disease stage; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Adcetris may be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the 
orphan condition still holds. The applicant has provided clinical data in the first line treatment of 
Stage III and Stage IV Hodgkin lymphoma, that show improved progression free survival and 
overall survival when the product is added to AVD (adriamycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) versus 
that obtained with the standard of care regimen ABVD (adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, 
dacarbazine). The COMP considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Adcetris, monoclonal antibody 
against human CD30 covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E, brentuximab vedotin 
for treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma (EU/3/08/596) is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000136638 
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
