28 May 2020 
EMA/417615/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): brentuximab vedotin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSR/S/0022 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report for the non-interventional imposed PASS final study 
report for the medicinal product(s) mentioned above, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Currently, the following is described regarding the safety profile in elderly treated with brentuximab 
vedotin monotherapy in SmPC section 4.8: “The safety profile in elderly patients was consistent with 
that of adult patients”. Based on the information provided by the MAH, this statement is not considered 
adequate. The incidences of pneumonia, febrile neutropenia and neutropenia were shown to be 
considerable different for patients ≥65 years as compared to patients <65 years. Furthermore, as also 
mentioned by the MAH older age is an important risk factor for, among others, the occurrence of 
neutropenia and febrile neutropenia.  
Therefore, in view of available data regarding the PASS final study report, the PRAC considered that 
changes to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for the results of the study for the medicinal product(s) 
mentioned above, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of this/these medicinal 
product(s) is unchanged, subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) of the medicinal product(s) 
mentioned above should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/417615/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
