14 October 2021 
EMA/570590/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): brentuximab vedotin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010039/202102 
Period covered by the PSUR:18 February 2020 to 18 February 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for brentuximab vedotin, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows: 
In view of available data on drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) from the 
literature and spontaneous reports including in two literature cases a close temporal relationship, 
improvement with steroids, meeting the criteria for DRESS from the European Registry of Severe 
Cutaneous Adverse Reactions to Drugs and Collection of Biological Samples, positive de-challenge and in 
one case positive re-challenge, and a probably post-marketing case, the PRAC considers a causal 
relationship between brentuximab vedotin and drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS) is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of 
products containing brentuximab vedotin should be amended accordingly. 
Regarding the risk of extravasation, based on three cases of cellulitis with a close temporal relationship, 
of which two were serious and two required hospitalisation, it is agreed with the MAH that cellulitis can 
occur following administration of brentuximab and that it is important for HCPs to be aware of this. The 
MAH is requested to add the term ‘cellulitis’ to the footnotes in SmPC section 4.8. Based on MedDRA 
terminology, the SmPC 4.8 footnotes term ‘sloughing’ should be replaced with ‘skin exfoliation’. 
Furthermore, a warning on the risk of extravasation reactions for HCPs is considered necessary in 
section 4.4. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for brentuximab vedotin the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing brentuximab vedotin is unchanged subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/570590/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
