12 May 2020 
EMADOC-360526170-469340 
EMA/OD/0000007448  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
of an orphan medicinal product submitted for type II variation application 
Adcetris (brentuximab vedotin)  
Treatment of peripheral t-cell lymphoma 
EU/3/08/595 
Sponsor: Takeda Pharma A/S  
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
2.2. Amendment of an existing orphan medicinal product designation ................................................... 4 
2.3. Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of marketing authorisation .............. 5 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 6 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 23 April 2020 ............................................... 11 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 2/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Monoclonal antibody against human CD30 covalently 
designation 
Other names 
linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E 
Anti-CD30-MMAE; Anti-CD30-monoclonal-antibody-
cAC10-auristatin-E-conjugate; Auristatin-E-anti-
CD30-monoclonal-antibody-cAC10-conjugate; cAC10-
vcMMAE; MMAE-anti-CD30; SGN-35  
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Brentuximab vedotin 
Tradename 
Adcetris 
Initial orphan condition 
Treatment of anaplastic large cell lymphoma 
Amended orphan condition (at time of 
Treatment of peripheral t-cell lymphoma  
review of criteria for orphan designation) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Takeda Pharma A/S   
Dybendal Alle 10 
2630 Taastrup 
Denmark  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Seattle Genetics UK Limited  
8 October 2008 
15 January 2009 
EU/3/08/595 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Seattle Genetics UK Limited to Takeda 
Global Research and Development Centre (Europe) 
Ltd – EC decision of 30 September 2010 
COMP opinion on review of orphan 
5 September 2012 
designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation  
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Takeda Global Research and 
Development Centre (Europe) Ltd to Takeda Pharma 
A/S – EC decision of 23 October 2013 
Change of designated condition COMP 
18 July 2019 
opinion date  
Change of designated condition EC decision 
23 August 2019 
date  
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
P.B. van Hennik / J. Mueller-Berghaus 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Takeda Pharma A/S   
19 June 2019 
20 July 2019 
EMA/H/C/002455/II/0070 
Adcetris 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 3/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Adcetris in combination with cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin and prednisone (CHP) is indicated for 
adult patients with previously untreated systemic 
anaplastic large cell lymphoma (sALCL). 
Further information on Adcetris can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
CHMP opinion date 
AR/adcetris  
26 March 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
E.J. Rook/ A. Magrelli 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
22 August 2019 
COMP discussion 
Adoption of list of questions 
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
8-10 October 2019 
19 March 2020 
22 April 2020 
23 April 2020 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2009 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
anaplastic large cell lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be 
affecting approximately 0.2 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was 
made; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening due to poor overall survival; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that monoclonal antibody against human CD30 
covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E may be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. 
2.2.  Amendment of an existing orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the amendment of the orphan medicinal product designation 
in 2019 was based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing monoclonal antibody 
against human CD30 covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E / brentuximab 
vedotin was considered justified based on clinical responses with the product as a monotherapy in 
relapsed/refractory patients, as well as clinical studies in first line in combination with existing 
treatments resulting in improved survival; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to poor response to therapy and 
high rate of relapses; 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 4/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 1 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time the application was made; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing monoclonal antibody against human CD30 covalently linked to the cytotoxin 
monomethylauristatin E / brentuximab vedotin will be of significant benefit to those affected by the 
condition. The sponsor has provided clinical data showing responses with the product as a 
monotherapy in relapsed/refractory patients, as well as clinical studies in first line in combination 
with existing treatments resulting in improved survival. The Committee considered that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
2.3.  Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
The COMP opinion on the initial review of the orphan medicinal product designation in 2012 was based 
on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the sponsor has been granted two orphan designations for monoclonal antibody against human 
CD30 covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin as a medicinal product; firstly for the 
“treatment of Hodgkins’ lymphoma” (EU/3/08/596) and secondly  for the “treatment of anaplastic 
large cell lymphoma” (EU/3/08/595); 
the proposed therapeutic indication “treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory CD30+ 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL): 1) following autologous stem cell transplant or 2) following at least two 
prior therapies when autologous stem cell transplantation is not a treatment option and treatment 
of patients with relapsed or refractory systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma (sALCL).” falls 
entirely within the scope of the abovementioned orphan indications of the designated Orphan 
Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of anaplastic large cell lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to be 0.2 in 10,000 and remains below 5 in 10,000 at the time of the review of the 
designation criteria;  
the condition is life-threatening with a 5-year survival of 29-44%; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that monoclonal antibody against human CD30 covalently linked to the 
cytotoxin monomethylauristatin may be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the 
orphan condition still holds. Patients with refractory and relapsed anaplastic large cell lymphoma 
who no longer responded to any therapy showed prolonged survival time when treated with 
monoclonal antibody against human CD30 covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 5/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
It is to be noted that in August 21, 2019 a previous designation for the “treatment of anaplastic large 
cell lymphoma” has been amended to “treatment of peripheral T-cell lymphoma”. 
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are a collection of rare malignancies and a biologically 
heterogeneous group of lymphomas. Derived from mature T-cells and natural killer (NK) cells, there 
are many histological subtypes considered by the 2016 World Health Organization (WHO) classification 
(Swerdlow, Campo et al. Blood 2016 127:20: 2375–2390, Sandell RF, Boddicker RL, Feldman AL. Curr 
Oncol Rep. 2017;19(4):28). The European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) have issued clinical 
guidance for the diagnosis, treatment and follow up for 8 primary nodal and extra-nodal PTCL 
histologies (d'Amore et al. 2015 Ann Oncol 26:S5 v108-v115). The amended condition as designated 
encompasses nodal, extranodal, and leukemic/disseminated histological subtypes. Anaplastic large-cell 
lymphoma (ALCL), pertinent to this procedure, is a primary nodal subtype. 
The therapeutic indication: “Adcetris in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and 
prednisone (CHP) is indicated for adult patients with previously untreated systemic anaplastic large cell 
lymphoma (sALCL)” falls entirely within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of 
peripheral T-cell lymphoma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been justified considering the positive benefit/risk assessment of the 
CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The COMP has considered that the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to poor 
response to therapy and high rate of relapses. Clinical presentation and course vary from an indolent 
clinical behaviour for years in milder subtypes, to fulminant disease in aggressive sub-types.   
Number of people affected or at risk 
The incidence and prevalence (5, 10, 20-year and lifetime prevalence) of PTCL for 2017 were 
estimated in 31 European countries: 27 EU member states, plus UK, Iceland, Liechtenstein and 
Norway. The sponsor has conducted a literature and registry review to identify incidence rates, and 
survival was calculated based on SEER (Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results) data. 
When country specific studies were unavailable, results were extrapolated from studies based in 
comparable populations. The sponsor reports that there is substantial variation in the crude incidence 
of PTCL among the countries, which is reported up to the highest figure of approximately 1.11 per 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 6/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100,000 population per year in Netherlands (with reference to National Cancer Registry of the 
Netherlands, INKR, 2017). 
By assuming a median survival of approximately 9 years, the multiplication of yearly incidence rate 
times survival would yield up to approximately 0.999 or 1 per 10,000 in the NL. This mean survival 
estimate was indirectly derived from cutaneous lymphomas literature (Agar et al, 2010 J Clin Oncology 
28(31): 4730-9) which was later on adjusted for PTCL using SEER data. 
In previous orphan procedures PTCL was estimated to be affecting less than 1 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, which is in line with the highest estimation of the sponsor, assuming an incidence up 
to 0.111 per 10,000 (for NL) and an approximate duration of 9 years as described above. It was 
considered that this conclusion could serve as a proxy for all patients alive with a previous diagnosis of 
peripheral T-cell lymphoma. 
The condition was therefore estimated to affect less than 1 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time of the review of the designation criteria. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The sponsor has outlined the currently authorised products for the treatment of peripheral T-cell 
lymphoma and/or non-Hodgkin lymphoma. These include brentuximab vedotin (the same product was 
already authorised in relapsed or refractory systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma at the time of this 
indication extension), rituximab, pixantrone, idelalisib, lomustine, bleomycin, betamethasone, 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, dexamethasone, prednisolone, epirubicin, ifosfamide, triamcinolone, 
chlorambucil, bendamustine, mitoxantrone, procarzabine, IFN-α, vinblastine, vincristine, teniposide, 
nelarabin, etoposide, cytarabine, methotrexate . 
The COMP noted the relevant ESMO guideline for PTCL covering the systemic subtypes of primary 
nodal and primary extranodal PTCL (F. d'Amore et al, Ann Oncol 2015, 26 S5:v108-v115.), according 
to which treatment options for first line PTCL revolve around schemes such as CHOP 
(cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) or for patients younger than 60 with 
addition of etoposide, CHOEP, followed by SCT (stem cell transplantation) for eligible patients. 
Whenever possible, inclusion in a clinical trial is recommended, including in the first line. 
In particular, for nodal PTCL (PTCL-NOS, AITL,which includes sALCL ALK+ and sALCL ALK−), CHOP or 
variants of it has been the most commonly used regimen. In patients less than 60 years of age with 
ALCL ALK+ histology, CHOP with the addition of etoposide (CHOEP) has shown some outcome benefits 
in terms of event-free survival but not overall survival (OS). CHOEP was mostly feasible in younger 
patients (≤60 years), toxicity being a limiting factor in older patients.  
Significant benefit 
Ιn evaluation of the significant benefit, the scope of the extension is first line  and therefore all 
authorised products used in first line regimens will have to be taken into consideration. However, there 
is an issue with the articulation of the indications of the identified authorisations, in that they are 
vaguely worded and often refer to “NHL” indications in general. Therefore, it may be agreed that the 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 7/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESMO guidelines can provide pro tanto guidance with regards to which products can be considered as 
satisfactory for the purpose of establishing significant benefit. 
The relevant comparators can be the identified by taking into consideration that most patients in the 
ECHELON study (70%) were ALCL patients. Therefore, based on the ESMO recommendations for nodal 
PTCL, a comparison versus CHOP and CHOEP was considered relevant for this discussion.  
Significant benefit versus CHOP 
A significant benefit was argued by the sponsor based on data from the ECHELON-2 study, showing a 
statistically significant improvement in PFS and OS across the population of that study, composed of 
patients with CD30+ PTCL who were treatment naive. For the ITT population (N=452), the 3-year PFS 
per IRF was 57.1% for patients on the A+CHP arm compared with 44.4% for patients on the CHOP 
arm, and the 3year OS was 76.8% for patients on the A+CHP arm compared with 69.1% for patients 
on the CHOP arm. 
In line with the final therapeutic indication, which focuses on previously untreated systemic anaplastic 
large-cell lymphoma (sALCL), the sponsor provided subgroup analyses to that particular population. 
Patients with sALCL comprised 70% of the ECHELON-2 study’s population, and in those patients the 
study showed a statistically significant PFS benefit (figure 1 below) and a clear OS trend in favour of A 
+ CHP. It was also reported that the efficacy benefits of A+CHP over CHOP appear consistent 
regardless of prognostic factors like anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) status, or patient’s age. 
Therefore, it was considered that based on this data the significant benefit versus CHOP was 
established. 
Figure 1.  Kaplan Meier curve of PFS from ECHELON-2 in the sALCL population 
With regards to the safety overview in the ALCL population, it was stated that within the ECHELON-2 
study, A+CHP patients experienced a lower incidence of Grade 3 or higher AEs (59% vs 64%), serious 
adverse events (SAEs; 32% vs. 36%), discontinuations due to an AE (4% vs. 9%), and fatal AEs (3% 
vs. 10%), as compared to CHOP control arm. In patients aged 60 and older, the rate of febrile 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 8/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
neutropenia was higher regardless of treatment arm, which was mitigated with G-CSF primary 
prophylaxis. 
Significant benefit versus CHOEP 
The sponsor also further elaborated on the effects of A+CHP versus CHOEP. As regards efficacy, data 
from ECHELON-2 were compared to references used in the context of ESMO guidelines. The following 
table recapitulates the efficacy juxtaposition versus retrospective studies considering CHOEP and CHOP 
regimens. This indirect comparison was not considered as conclusive for any efficacy comparison in 
favour of the proposed product. 
Table 1.  Sourced from the sponsor’s application. 
It was stressed by the sponsor that the high haematologic toxicity of CHOEP renders it unsuitable for 
use in older or in general frail patients (Pfreundschuh, Blood 104(3):634-41). In particular for patients 
of more than 60 years of age, addition of etoposide is not recommended and CHOP remains the 
standard therapy for elderly PTCL patients (Schmitz et al, Blood 116(18):3418-3425).   
In ECHELON-2, A+CHP showed a statistically significant improvement in both PFS, CR rate, ORR and 
OS as well as consistent, positive efficacy trends in duration of response and time to next treatment. 
These efficacy gains were associated with a safety profile that was manageable in patients of all ages. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 9/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
It was therefore considered that A+CHP provides clinically significant benefit in terms of improved 
efficacy without additional dose limiting toxicity and can be used in all patients regardless of age. 
The COMP accepted the argumentation and considered that the data from the ECHELON-2 trial 
discussed above justified significant benefit versus the recommended CHOP regimen and variant of 
CHOEP in the target population. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 23 April 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be less than 1 in 10,000 persons in 
the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to poor response to therapy and 
high rate of relapses. Clinical presentation and course vary from an indolent clinical behaviour for 
years in milder subtypes, to fulminant disease in aggressive sub-types; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Adcetris may be of potential significant benefit to the subset 
of the orphan condition as defined in the granted therapeutic indication still holds. The sponsor has 
presented data in first line systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma patients, showing improved 
progression free survival in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone (CHP) 
compared to the currently recommended regimen CHOP for the targeted patients. The Committee 
considered that this is a clinically relevant advantage.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Adcetris, monoclonal antibody 
against human CD30 covalently linked to the cytotoxin monomethylauristatin E, brentuximab vedotin 
for treatment of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (EU/3/08/595) is not removed from the Community 
Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 11/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
