European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 22 October 2009   
Doc. Ref No.:EMA/731375/2009  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
ADCIRCA 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
tadalafil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/1021/II/0001 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1. 
Introduction 
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH) is a chronic and progressive disease of the small pulmonary 
arteries  that  is  characterised  by  vascular  proliferation  and  remodelling.  It  results  in  increased 
pulmonary  artery  pressure  and  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  and,  ultimately,  right  ventricular  heart 
failure and death. Although the pathogenesis of PAH is not completely understood, it likely involves 
an imbalance in the normal relationships between vasodilators and vasoconstrictors, growth inhibitors 
and  mitogenic  factors,  and  antithrombotic  and  prothrombotic  determinants  that  are  probably 
consequences of pulmonary endothelial cell dysfunction and/or injury.   
PAH is defined by right-heart catheterization showing a precapillary pulmonary hypertension (mean 
pulmonary artery pressure > 25 mmHg at rest or > 30 mmHg with exercise, with a pulmonary artery 
wedge  pressure  <  15  mmHg).  There  is  a  female-to-male  preponderance  (1.7:1),  with  patients  most 
commonly presenting in the third and fourth decades, although the age range is from infancy to greater 
than 60 years. The annual incidence of idiopathic pulmonary hypertension has been estimated within 1 
or 2 cases per million individuals per year. The median life expectancy from the time of the diagnosis 
in patients with idiopathic PAH (IPAH), before the availability of disease-specific (targeted) therapy, 
was 2.8 years through the mid-1980. PAH is a rare, progressive, life-threatening disease with a poor 
prognosis.  
Current  clinical  classification  of  PAH  comprises  apparently  heterogeneous  conditions,  which  share 
comparable clinical and haemodynamic pictures and virtually identical pathologic changes of the lung 
microcirculation.  PAH  includes  the  idiopathic  (IPAH,  formerly  termed  primary  pulmonary 
hypertension),  familial  forms  (FPAH),  PAH  associated  with  various  conditions  (APAH),  such  as 
scleroderma  and  other  connective  tissue  diseases  (CTD),  congenital  heart  defects  with  systemic-to-
pulmonary  shunts,  portal  hypertension,  human  immunodeficiency  virus  infection,  exposure  to  drugs 
and  toxins  and  other  more  rare  settings:  thyroid  disorders,  glycogen  storage  disease,  Gaucher´s 
disease,  hereditary  hemorrhagic  telangiectasia,  haemoglobinopathies  (Sickle  disease  especially), 
myelo-proliferative  disorders,  splenectomy,  PAH  associated  with  significant  venous  or  capillary 
involvement and finally, persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. 
The New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification of PAH is as follows:  
  Class  I:  PAH  without  a  resulting  limitation  of  physical  activity.  Ordinary  physical  activity 
does not cause undue dyspnoea or fatigue, chest pain, or near-syncope. 
  Class II: PAH resulting in a slight limitation of physical activity. The patient is comfortable at 
rest,  but  ordinary  physical  activity  causes  undue  dyspnoea  or  fatigue,  chest  pain,  or  near-
syncope. 
  Class III: PAH resulting a marked limitation of physical activity. The patient is comfortable at 
rest,  but  less  than  ordinary  activity  causes  undue  dyspnoea  or  fatigue,  chest  pain,  or  near-
syncope. 
  Class IV: PAH resulting in an inability to carry out any physical activity without symptoms. 
The patient has signs of right heart failure. Dyspnoea, fatigue, or both may be present even at 
rest, and discomfort is increased by any physical activity.  
Variables associated with poor survival included, among others, a NYHA Functional Class III or IV 
and  the  presence  of  Raynaud’s  phenomenon.    Patients  with  a  NYHA  Class  I  or  II  have  a  median 
survival of 59 months (approximately 5 years), while patients with a NYHA Class III have a median 
survival  of  32  months  (2.6 years),  and  patients  with  a  NYHA  Class  IV  have  a  median  survival  of  6 
months.    For  Primary  Pulmonary  Hypertension  (PPH),  the  US  National  Institutes  of  Health  (NIH) 
registry  showed  survival  rates  for  untreated  patients  of  68%,  48%,  and  34%  after  1,  3,  and  5  years 
from diagnosis, respectively. Although advances in therapies and patient management have improved 
these rates, there is still no known cure for PPH or other forms of PAH. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Symptoms of PAH include dyspnoea (most commonly), fatigue, chest pain or discomfort, dizziness, 
syncope,  near  syncope,  oedema,  leg  oedema,  and  palpitations.    When  the  disease  is  advanced,  the 
clinical  manifestations  include  cyanosis,  dyspnoea  on  exertion,  haemoptysis,  atypical  chest  pain  or 
angina pectoris, syncope, heart failure, arrhythmias and cerebrovascular accidents.  
General measures recommended for patients with PAH is to engage in activities appropriate to their 
physical  capabilities  in  order  to prevent  deconditioning  and  attendant  worsening of overall  function. 
At  present,  conventional  treatment  for  patients  with  primary  and  secondary  PAH  includes  calcium-
channel  blockers,  anticoagulants,  diuretics  and  oxygen.  In  addition,  other  medicinal  products  are 
currently authorised in the European Union (EU) for the treatment of PAH, such as oral endothelin-1 
receptor  antagonists,  intravenous,  inhaled  or  subcutaneous  prostacyclin  and  a  phosphodiesterase-5 
inhibitor. As a last alternative, a lung or heart/lung transplant may be offered to the patient. 
Tadalafil  is  a  potent  and  selective  inhibitor  of  phosphodiesterase  type  5  (PDE5),  the  enzyme 
responsible  for  the  degradation  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP).  Pulmonary  arterial 
hypertension  is  associated  with  impaired  release  of  nitric  oxide  by  the  vascular  endothelium  and 
consequent reduction of cGMP concentrations within the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle. PDE5 is 
the  predominant  phosphodiesterase  in  the  pulmonary  vasculature.    Inhibition  of  PDE5  by  tadalafil 
increases the concentrations of cGMP resulting in relaxation of the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle 
cell and vasodilation of the pulmonary vascular bed. 
Adcirca (previously known as Tadalafil Lilly) was granted a marketing authorisation by the European 
Commission on 1 October 2008 in the treatment of erectile dysfunction further to an informed consent 
application for the authorised medicinal product Cialis.  
This type II variation concerns the change of the indication of Adcirca from erectile dysfunction to the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional class II and III, to 
improve exercise capacity. Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH related to 
collagen vascular disease.  
The pack sizes have been consequently changed from 2, 4, 8 and 12 tablets to 28 and 56 tablets.  
As a consequence, changes were made to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.8, 4.9, 5.1, 5.2 and 6.5 
of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC), Annex IIIA and the Package Leaflet.  
In  addition,  the  conditions  or  restrictions  regarding  supply  and  use  imposed  on  the  marketing 
authorisation  holder  in  Annex  II  have  been  changed  to  “Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted 
medical prescription”. A statement to that effect has also been added to section 4.2 of the SPC.  
Furthermore,  Annex  II  has  been  updated  to  include  the  agreed  version  1.3  of  the  Risk  Management 
Plan (RMP). 
1.2  Non-clinical aspects 
Lilly-sponsored  non-clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines,  good 
laboratory practice (GLP) procedures, and local regulatory requirements. 
 
Primary Pharmacodynamics 
A  comprehensive  program  of nonclinical  studies  with  tadalafil  was  included  in  the  initial marketing 
authorisation  application  for  the  use  of  tadalafil  in  the  treatment  of  male  erectile  dysfunction  (ED). 
According  to  the  MAH,  this  nonclinical  program  was  considered  sufficient  to  support  the  current 
application for the treatment of PAH.  
An in vivo pharmacology study was also conducted by the MAH to confirm the efficacy of tadalafil in 
an animal model of PAH.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects  of  Tadalafil  on  Monochrotaline-Induced  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  and  pulmonary 
cGMP Levels (Study Report 030327) 
The effects of tadalafil on PAH progression during the development of PAH (prevention study) and 
the  effects  of  tadalafil  after  PAH  was  established  (treatment  study),  were  evaluated  in  the 
monochrotaline (MCT)-induced PAH rat  model. In addition, cGMP levels in pulmonary tissue were 
measured at the end of each study phase. Tadalafil, a selective inhibitor of PDE5, would be expected 
to increase nitric oxide (NO)-induced cGMP levels by inhibiting cGMP degradation. Doses of 0.5, 2.5, 
and  10  mg  tadalafil/kg  were  selected  for  study.  The  dose  of  10  mg/kg  was  expected  to  produce  an 
exposure in rats similar to that in humans following a 40-mg dose. The lower doses were selected to 
provide a range of responses. Sildenafil, 25 mg/kg/day, was used as a positive control. 
This dose of sildenafil was expected to provide exposures in rats similar to those at the human clinical 
dose of 60 mg/day. An additional control group of rats was not treated with MCT (normal group). 
In the prevention study, tadalafil (0, 0.5, 2.5, and 10 mg/kg/day) was given orally to rats during the 
development phase of PAH, that is, from the day of MCT injection to 3 weeks later. At the end of the 
study,  haemodynamic  parameters  and  cardiac  weights  were  measured.  Tadalafil  at  10  mg/kg/day 
significantly  decreased  mean  pulmonary  artery  pressure  (MPAP)  and  systolic  right  ventricular 
pressure (SRVP) relative to the MCTinjected control group (vehicle treated), without affecting mean 
systemic arterial blood pressure (MBP) or heart rate (HR). In addition, tadalafil attenuated the increase 
in right ventricular (RV) weight/left ventricular (LV) + septal (S) weight, [RV/(LV+S)], an indicator 
of  right  ventricular  hypertrophy,  resulting  in  an  RV/(LV+S)  close  to  the  range  of  the  normal  (non-
MCT-injected)  group.  Similar  effects  were  observed  following  sildenafil  treatment.  These  data 
demonstrate  that  treatment  with  tadalafil  at  10  mg/kg/day  during  the  first  3  weeks  following  MCT 
injection prevents the progression of PAH in this rat model. 
In  the  treatment  study,  tadalafil  (0,  0.5,  2.5,  and  10  mg/kg/day)  was  given  to  rats  when  PAH  was 
already  established,  that  is,  from  3  weeks  after  MCT  injection  to  6  weeks  post-injection.  Rats  were 
observed  daily  for  mortality;  and  at  the  end  of  the  study,  blood  gases  and  cardiac  weights  were 
measured. Tadalafil at 10 mg/kg/day had a tendency to reduce the RV hypertrophy and to increase the 
partial  pressure  of  oxygen  in  arterial  blood  and  arterial  oxygen  saturation  to  approximately  normal 
levels.  Compared  with  the  MCT-injected  control  group,  the  10-mg/kg  dose  of  tadalafil  induced  a 
significantly  higher  probability  of  survival.  The  survival  rate  in  the  0.5-,  2.5-,  and  10-mg/kg/day 
tadalafil groups was dose-dependently increased to 55%, 60%, and 70%, respectively, versus 40% in 
the  MCT-control  group.  Similar  effects  were  observed  following  sildenafil  treatment.  Collectively, 
these  data  suggest  that  tadalafil  at  10  mg/kg/day  improves  pulmonary  haemodynamics,  blood  gas 
exchange, and survival even when treatment occurs in the established phase of PAH (late stage). 
Rat lungs were removed at the end of either the prevention or treatment study (3 or 6 weeks after MCT 
injection), wet weights were measured, and total cGMP levels in the isolated tissues were detected by 
radioimmunoassay using a cGMP assay kit. At 3 weeks after MCT injection, when PAH development 
was  confirmed,  there  was  no  difference  in  pulmonary  cGMP  levels  between  the  MCT-injected 
(vehicle)  control  and  non-MCT  injected  normal  groups.  Treatment  with  tadalafil  (0.5,  2.5,  and 
10 mg/kg/day)  for  3  weeks  during  the  development  phase  of  PAH  (early  stage)  caused  a  dose-
dependent  increase  in  pulmonary  tissue  cGMP,  with  statistical  significance  at  10  mg/kg/day.  At  6 
weeks  after  MCT  injection  when  60%  mortality  was  observed  in  the  control  group,  a  slight  but 
significant  increase  in  pulmonary  cGMP  (approximately  35%  relative  to  the  normal  level)  was 
recorded in the MCT-control group. Treatment with tadalafil at all doses during the established phase 
of PAH (late stage) significantly elevated pulmonary cGMP with an approximately 200% maximum 
increase  relative  to  the  MCT-control  group.  Similar  effects  were  observed  following  sildenafil 
treatment.  These  results  indicate  that  tadalafil  selectively  inhibits  pulmonary  PDE5  in  vivo  and 
provides the necessary cGMP to reduce MPAP. 
In summary, tadalafil, 10 mg/kg/day, attenuated PAH progression and reduced mortality in the MCT-
induced PAH rat model. The effects on pulmonary haemodynamics were also associated with elevated 
cGMP in the lung. These results suggest that tadalafil, by selective and sustained inhibition of PDE5 in 
the  lung,  can  maintain  the  high  levels  of  cGMP  needed  to  relax  pulmonary  arteries,  improve 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
pulmonary  haemodynamics  and  blood  gas  exchange,  and  delay  the  progression  to  right  ventricular 
failure. Thus, it is expected that tadalafil would be an effective, once daily treatment option in humans 
with PAH. 
 
Safety Pharmacology and toxicology  
The  safety  pharmacology  studies  with  tadalafil  were  discussed  in  the  initial  marketing  authorisation 
application  for  ED.  However,  because  the  recommended  human  dose  for  the  treatment  of  PAH  is 
higher than the maximum recommended dose for ED (40 mg versus 20 mg), the exposure multiples 
achieved  in  the  safety  pharmacology  and  toxicology  studies  relative  to  the  higher  proposed  clinical 
dose were discussed by the MAH. 
For  comparative  purposes,  the  40-mg  proposed  human  dose  equates  to  0.6  mg/kg  for  a  60-kg 
individual;  human  plasma  levels  following  administration  of  that  dose  in  a  21-day  study  (LVHM) 
achieved a maximum Cmax of 1271 ng/mL (3.3 μM). This is equivalent to a Cmax of 76 ng/mL (0.2 
μM) unbound tadalafil. 
In receptor binding assays, tadalafil displayed an affinity of 1 ± 0.3 μM at the dopamine D2 receptor. 
This is lower than the clinical Cmax of unbound tadalafil (0.2 μM) and so, would not be expected to 
have  any  clinical  consequences.  Tadalafil  did  not  compete  with  radiolabelled  receptor  ligands  for 
benzodiazepine,  GABAA,  muscarinic,  histamine  H1,  5-HT2,  dopamine  D1,  α1-adrenergic,  α2-
adrenergic,  or  β-adrenergic  receptors  at  concentrations  up  to  10  μM;  and  the  methylcatechol  and 
catechol  derivatives  of  tadalafil  did  not  compete  with  the  same  ligands  at      concentrations  <3  μM. 
Tadalafil  was  evaluated  for  cardiovascular  and  respiratory  effects  in  dogs.  All  effects  occurred  at 
doses  ≥20  mg/kg orally or ≥3  mg/kg intravenously. When given to spontaneously hypertensive rats, 
deoxycorticosterone acetate-treated rats, or renal vascular hypertensive rats, single oral 1- and 5-mg/kg 
doses lowered blood pressure for at least 7 hours, without affecting heart rate. Tadalafil was a weak 
blocker  of  the  hERG  current,  reaching  51%  inhibition  at  a  concentration  of  100  μM  which  is  more 
than  30  times  higher  than  total  therapeutic  plasma  concentrations  and  more  than  500  times  the 
maximum Cmax of unbound tadalafil. 
There  were  no  effects  on  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  function  at  doses  ≤100  mg/kg  orally  or  on 
gastrointestinal  transit  time  at  oral  doses  up  to  800  mg/kg.  Tadalafil  0.3  mg/kg  intravenously, 
increased  urine  output  and  sodium  excretion  in  rats  without  affecting  potassium  excretion.  A 
0.1 mg/kg dose potentiated diuretic and natriuretic effects of atrial natriuretic factor. 
Based  on  the  results  of  these  safety  pharmacology  studies,  there is  no  reason to  expect  that  the  oral 
administration  of  tadalafil  at  the  proposed  dose  of  40  mg  would  result  in  any  adverse  secondary 
pharmacological effects on the cardiovascular, CNS, or gastrointestinal systems in humans. However, 
there may be an increase in urine output and sodium excretion and a potentiation of the diuretic and 
natriuretic effects of atrial natriuretic factor but no concern is expected about this issue from clinical 
data. 
Regarding toxicology, tadalafil was evaluated in a variety of toxicology studies in laboratory animals 
and  in  vitro  test  systems.  At  the  time  of  the  initial  marketing  authorisation,  studies  included  single-
dose toxicity in mice, rats, and dogs; repeat-dose toxicity in mice, rats, and dogs; in vitro and in vivo 
genotoxicity; carcinogenic potential in mice and rats; and reproductive and developmental toxicity in 
rats  and  mice.  During  the  original  assessment  for  tadalafil  10  and  20  mg  tablets,  a  concern  on 
testicular  toxicity  was  raised  based  on  the  finding  on  tadalafil  related  testicular  alterations  in  dogs 
(atrophy of seminiferous tubules and hypospermia/aspermia). These dog findings were not confirmed 
clinically in studies of up to 9 months duration and reassurance was provided further to the conduct of 
3 studies in men assessing the potential effect of spermatogenesis of tadalafil 10 mg and 20 mg. 
 
Environmental Risk Assessment  
In addition, an Environmental Risk Assessment for the Use of tadalafil in the new proposed indication 
was  submitted.  In  summary,  data  from  environmental  chemistry,  fate,  and  toxicity  studies  and 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
predictions  of  concentrations  in  the  environment  were  considered  to  evaluate  the  risk  to  the 
environment  from  the  therapeutic  use  of  tadalafil  in  humans  in  Europe.  According  to  the  data 
presented it was agreed that tadalafil is unlikely to represent a risk to the environment.  
 
Discussion on nonclinical aspects 
An extensive and complete series of pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, and toxicology studies with 
the  PDE5  inhibitor,  tadalafil,  were  performed  in  support  of  the  original  marketing  application  of 
tadalafil, 10 and 20 mg taken as needed, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.  
An  in  vivo  pharmacology  study  was  recently  conducted  to  confirm  the  efficacy  of  tadalafil  in  an 
animal model of PAH. This study investigated the effects of tadalafil on PAH progression during the 
development of PAH and the effects of tadalafil after PAH was established, in the MCT-induced PAH 
rat model. The results suggest that tadalafil, by the inhibition of PDE5 in the lung, can maintain the 
high  levels  of  cGMP  needed  to  relax  pulmonary  arteries,  improve  pulmonary  haemodynamics  and 
blood  gas  exchange,  and  delay  the  progression  to  right  ventricular  failure.  The  MAH  has  provided 
adequate data to support the new indication requested. 
The  MAH  provided  a  comparison  of  margins  of  safety  for  doses  administered  in  repeat-dose 
toxicology studies versus clinical steady-state exposure at 20mg bid. It should be considered that doses 
up to 20 mg day of tadalafil are currently administered to patients. Based on the discussion provided 
regarding  comparison  of  exposure  levels  for  unbound  tadalafil  in  mouse,  rat,  dog  and  human  from 
repeat-dose  studies  and  for  unbound  tadalafil  in  mouse,  rat  and  human  for  carcinogenicity  and 
reproduction/developmental  studies,  there  is  no  reason  to  expect  that  the  oral  administration  of 
tadalafil at the proposed dose of 40 mg would result in any new adverse effects in humans.  
Therefore, from the toxicological point of view, the non-clinical safety of tadalafil was  evaluated in 
the original marketing authorisation application and there is no specific additional safety concern that 
would need further investigations considering that safety margins expected are not modified by other 
factors such as possible interactions with other coadministered drugs on the basis of this continuous 
treatment.  
1.3  Clinical aspects 
Lilly-sponsored  studies  in  the  treatment  of  Pulmonary  Artery  Hypertension  (PAH)  were  conducted 
following  standard  research  design  conventions  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines,  good  clinical 
practice  (GCP)  procedures,  and  local  regulatory  requirements.  Clinical  studies  were  conducted  in 
accordance  with  the  spirit  of  the  Declaration  of  Helsinki  and  were  conducted  in  compliance  with 
“Ordinance on Good Clinical Practice” and “Details of Good Clinical Practice.”  
1.3.1.  Clinical pharmacology 
1.3.1.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
Most  aspects  of  the  previous  tadalafil  clinical  pharmacology  package  previously  submitted  for 
tadalafil  in  the  treatment  of  ED  are  applicable  to  the  present  application,  including  mechanism  of 
action, pharmacodynamics, and intrinsic/extrinsic factors affecting pharmacokinetics.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  tadalafil  in  patients  with  PAH  was  assessed  through  collection  of 
pharmacokinetic  data  from  a  single  Phase  3  Study  (LVGY)  in  389  subjects  with  PAH  receiving 
placebo  or  tadalafil  once-daily  for  up  to  16 weeks  and  the  results  of  a  population  pharmacokinetic 
analysis  (LVGY  Population  PK/PD  Report).  Five  additional  clinical  pharmacology  studies  using  a 
40 mg dose have been conducted:  
  H6D-MC-LVGZ [LVGZ]: Bosentan interaction 
  H6D-MC-LVHC [LVHC]: Pharmacokinetics in Japanese subjects 
  H6D-EW-LVHO [LVHO]: Food interaction 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  H6D-EW-LVHL [LVHL]: Digoxin interaction  
  H6D-EW-LVHM [LVHM]: Oral contraceptive interaction 
As  tadalafil  is  metabolized  by  CYP3A4  and  includes  a  methylenedioxy  functional  group  in  its 
chemical  structure,  the  possibility  of  mechanism-based  inhibition  of  CYP3A  has  been  further 
investigated  (Study  2003IV-DI001).  Further,  an  in  vitro  interaction  study  of  tadalafil  with  P-gp  was 
conducted using 2 in vitro models (Study 2006TP-Pgp02). 
Bioavailability:  In  the  PK  PD  study  report  a  reduction  in  bioavailability  of  35%  (95%  CI:  28.6%  - 
42.0%) for the 40-mg dose was observed when compared to lower tadalafil doses (2.5, 10, and 20 mg). 
As stated by the MAH this is due to the low solubility of the drug substance at doses approximating 40 
mg. According to that, it could not be ruled out that administering two pills of 20 mg (40 mg) once-
daily  achieved  a  lower  median  steady-state  exposure  than  one  pill  of  20  mg  twice-daily.  The  MAH 
provided additional PK and PK/PD simulations of tadalafil 40 mg once-daily versus tadalafil 20 mg 
twice daily that suggested that 20 mg twice-daily administration results in a 55% higher exposure than 
40  mg  once-daily.  Nevertheless,  this  increase  in  exposure  is  not  associated  to  a  clinically  relevant 
increase in 6MWD, whereas safety implications of a higher tadalafil exposure have not been tested. It 
seems reasonable to include in the SPC the posology of tadalafil that was superior to placebo during 
the pivotal trial LVGY (i.e. 40 mg, once-daily). 
Food  interaction:  Food  does  not  affect  the  rate  or  extent  of  tadalafil  absorption  in  a  clinically 
significant  manner  with  tadalafil  dosing  up  to  and  including  40  mg.  Therefore,  tadalafil  may  be 
administered without regard to meals (Study LVHO). 
Distribution  and  elimination:  Available  data  suggest  that  tadalafil  is  extensively  distributed  into 
tissues across doses of 2.5 through 40 mg. Mean half-life of tadalafil 40 mg dose is similar to that of 
lower doses. The current SPC is appropriate with respect to elimination data available for tadalafil. 
Metabolites:  It  is  appropriate  to  apply  the  previously  established  metabolism  properties  reflected  in 
current SPC, to the 40 mg dose. The major circulating metabolite is the methylcatechol glucuronide. 
This  metabolite  is  at  least  13,000-fold  less  potent  than  tadalafil  for  PDE5.  Consequently,  it  is  not 
expected to be clinically active at observed metabolite concentrations. 
Genetic  polymorphism:  A  recent  study  has  investigated  the  contributions  of  the  CYP3A4  and 
CYP3A5 isoforms to the  metabolism of the phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5Is)  sildenafil, 
udenafil, and vardenafil, but not tadalafil (Ku HY, et al. Drug Metab Dispos. 2008; 36: 986-90). The 
study  findings  suggest  that  CYP3A5  and  CYP3A4  play  a  significant  role  in  the  metabolism  of 
PDE5Is.  The  genetic  polymorphism  of  CYP3A5  may  contribute  to  interindividual  variability  in  the 
disposition of PDE5Is, especially vardenafil. Nevertheless, since major metabolic pathway for tadalafil 
is  not  CYP3A5,  no  significant  consequences  of  possible  genetic  polymorphism  for  CYP3A5  are 
expected for tadalafil. 
Time dependency: Data available suggest an absence of time-dependent pharmacokinetics. 
Intra- and inter-individual variability: Expected tadalafil intra- and inter-individual variability is low 
and probably of no clinical significance in “non-special” populations. 
Renal  impairment:  Due  to  decreased  absorption  rate,  the  40  mg  once-daily  dose  does  not  follow  a 
linear kinetics as compared with 20 mg once-daily. In patients with renal insufficiency is expected a 
similar  absorption  rate  than  in  patients  with  normal  renal  function  and,  additionally,  a  50%  fold 
increase  in  AUC  at  steady  state.  The  MAH  has  submitted  detailed  data  from  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate renal insufficiency from studies LVAJ and LVGY. Should a doubling of exposure occur in 
subjects  with  mild  or  moderate  renal  impairment,  like  that  reported  in  the  historical  clinical 
pharmacology  study  (Study  LVAJ),  concentration-time  profiles  in  mild  and  moderate  renal 
impairment following daily administration of 20-mg tadalafil at steady-state would be broadly similar 
to those for subjects with normal renal function receiving 40 mg once-daily. Safety data from studies 
LVGY  and  LVGX  shows  that  the  incidence  of  AEs  is  generally  similar  across  all  degrees  of  renal 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
function.  Recommendation  of  a  starting  dose  of  20 mg  tadalafil  administered  once-daily  in  patients 
with mild and moderate renal impairment was acceptable. 
Hepatic impairment: Due to limited clinical experience with doses exceeding 10 mg in patients with 
chronic hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) in the ED and PAH programmes, together with 
the  potential  of  accumulation,  a  starting  dose  of  tadalafil  20 mg  once  per  day  may  be  considered.  
Tadalafil  is  not  recommended  for  patients  with  PAH  having  severe  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh 
Class C), given insufficient clinical experience in this patient group. 
Gender:  The  individual  tadalafil  plasma  concentration  time  profiles  for  females  and  males  are 
essentially similar following single and multiple, once-daily doses of 40 mg tadalafil. The overlap in 
the distribution of AUC and Cmax values for female and male subjects is apparent, with any mean 
difference being <10% and of no clinical relevance. 
Ethnicity:  Pharmacokinetic  studies  have  included  subjects  and  patients  from  different  ethnic  groups, 
and no differences in the typical exposure to tadalafil have been identified.  
Body-weight: In the pivotal clinical trial LVGY, 11% of patients in the placebo group and 13.3% in 
the tadalafil group had active history of obesity and the body-weight range of patients included was 
40-155  kg.  Obesity  itself  may  increase  pulmonary  artery  pressures.  A  subgroup  analysis  of  efficacy 
(6MW  test)  of  study  LVGY  by  body-weight  range  (<60kg;  60-90kg;  >90  kg)  showed  that  6MWD 
change from baseline measures were comparable across weight groups within each treatment with the 
greatest  magnitude  of  change  from  baseline  in  those  receiving  20-mg  and  40-mg  tadalafil.  In 
particular, no loss of efficacy was apparent in patients weighing more than 90 kg. 
Elderly: The increase in exposure in elderly subjects is 25% higher than that of young subjects at the 
10 mg dose. The increase in tadalafil exposure in elderly patients was marginal relative to those less 
than  50  years  of  age  following  daily  doses  of  20  mg  and  40  mg  in  the  LVGY  Population  PK/PD 
Report.  Given  the  collective  pharmacokinetic  data,  no  dose  adjustment  is  warranted  in  the  elderly 
(with normal renal or hepatic function) based upon pharmacokinetics alone. Additionally, in both the 
16-week blinded portion of the Study LVGY, as well as open label experience (Study LVGX) safety 
and  tolerability  of  tadalafil  appears  similar  between  subjects  65  years  or  older  and  those  under  65 
years of age. 
Children: There is no clinical experience with Adcirca in children. 
“In  vitro”  interaction  studies:  In  vitro  examination  of  mechanism-based  inhibition  of  CYP3A4 
indicated that tadalafil is a less potent mechanism-based inhibitor than diltiazem and erythromycin and 
predicted  that  40-mg  tadalafil  would  not  cause  clinically  significant  inhibition  of  theCYP3A4 
isoforms.  In  vitro  assessments  also  suggested  that  the  potential  for  inhibition  of  P-gp  by  tadalafil 
would not be of clinical significance. 
Interaction with bosentan: A strong relationship between tadalafil clearance and concomitant bosentan 
use was observed in the LVGZ study in healthy volunteers and also in the population analysis of PAH 
subjects, with tadalafil clearance increasing from 1.59 to 2.79 L/h in those subjects receiving bosentan, 
representing  a  decrease  of  approximately  35%  in  the  median  AUCss  with  bosentan.  These  results 
indicate that potent CYP3A inducers (rifampin) could lower systemic exposure of tadalafil to a greater 
extent than moderate CYP3A4 inducers (Study LVGZ). Coadministration of tadalafil and bosentan did 
not  discernibly  alter  exposure  to  bosentan  or  its  metabolites  following  single-  and  multiple-dose 
administration  (Study  LVGZ).  The  decrease  in  tadalafil  AUC  induced  by bosentan  is  similar  to  that 
described for sildenafil (in the Revatio SPC). On the contrary of sildenafil, tadalafil does not increase 
bosentan AUC at steady state. These results also suggest that a relative lower efficacy of tadalafil is 
expected in patients with PAH receiving concomitant bosentan. In fact, in the clinical trial, the effect 
of adding tadalafil 40 mg in patients already in bosentan treatment was not statistically different from 
than seen in patients on bosentan plus placebo. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction with other drugs: The absence of a drug interaction when digoxin is taken in combination 
with 40-mg tadalafil can therefore be concluded based on the results of the LVHL study. At steady-
state tadalafil (40 mg once per day) increased ethinylestradiol exposure (AUC) by 26% and Cmax by 
70%  relative  to  oral  contraceptive  administered  with  placebo.  This  information  may  be  of  clinical 
significance since most patients with PAH are women. There was no statistically significant effect of 
tadalafil on levonorgestrel.  
Relationship between exposure and safety: A higher tadalafil exposure is correlated with a higher rate 
of treatment emergent events, most of them of mild to moderate intensity, and associated with PDE5 
inhibition  (i.e.:  headache,  back  pain,  dizziness,  dyspepsia,  flushing,  myalgia,  and  nasal  congestion). 
Nevertheless, a higher tadalafil exposure is not correlated with a higher rate of serious adverse events 
as compared to placebo in patients with PAH.  
1.3.1.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of tadalafil have been extensively evaluated in single- 
and multiple-dose clinical pharmacology studies and population-based pharmacokinetic analysis of 
data from 4 clinical trials in support of the ED indication. 
 
Mechanism of action 
Tadalafil  is  a  potent  and  selective  inhibitor  of  phosphodiesterase  type  5  (PDE5),  the  enzyme 
responsible  for  the  degradation  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP).  Pulmonary  arterial 
hypertension  is  associated  with  impaired  release  of  nitric  oxide  by  the  vascular  endothelium  and 
consequent reduction of cGMP concentrations within the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle. PDE5 is 
the  predominant  phosphodiesterase  in  the  pulmonary  vasculature.  Inhibition  of  PDE5  by  tadalafil 
increases the concentrations of cGMP resulting in relaxation of the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle 
cell and vasodilation of the pulmonary vascular bed. 
 
Primary pharmacology 
Studies in vitro have shown that tadalafil is a selective inhibitor of PDE5. PDE5 is an enzyme found in 
corpus  cavernosum  smooth  muscle,  vascular  and  visceral  smooth  muscle,  skeletal  muscle,  platelets, 
kidney,  lung,  and  cerebellum.  The  effect  of  tadalafil  is  more  potent  on  PDE5  than  on  other 
phosphodiesterases.  Tadalafil  is  > 10,000-fold  more  potent  for  PDE5  than  for  PDE1,  PDE2,  and 
PDE4, enzymes which are found in the heart, brain, blood vessels, liver, and other organs. Tadalafil is 
> 10,000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE3, an enzyme found in the heart and blood vessels. 
This  selectivity  for  PDE5  over  PDE3  is  important  because  PDE3  is  an  enzyme  involved  in  cardiac 
contractility. Additionally, tadalafil is approximately 700-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE6, 
an  enzyme  which  is  found  in  the  retina  and  is  responsible  for  phototransduction.  Tadalafil  is  also 
> 10,000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE7 through PDE10. 
Tadalafil 10 mg/kg significantly decreased mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) and systolic right 
ventricular pressure in a monocrotaline-induced rat PAH model. 
 
Secondary pharmacology 
Previous  special  studies  included  in  the  original  marketing  authorisation  were  conducted  to  assess 
tadalafil effects on visual function, renal blood flow and myocardial blood flow.  
Single  10-,  20-,  and  40-mg  doses  of  tadalafil  had  no  effect  on  colour  vision  or  visual  function  in 
healthy subjects. Single 20- and 80-mg doses of tadalafil had no effect on effective renal plasma flow 
as assessed by renal radionuclide scan in healthy, young male subjects. In addition, there was no effect 
on  lumbar  and  gluteal  venocongestion  assessed  by  FDG-positron  emission  tomography  (PET)  and 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. This study also showed that single 20- and 80-mg doses of 
tadalafil had no effect compared to placebo on the presence of inflammatory or myolytic biomarkers. 
Three studies were conducted in subjects with coronary artery disease. In subjects with coronary artery 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disease  undergoing  exercise  stress  testing,  10-mg  tadalafil  did  not  significantly  reduce  the  total 
exercise time or time to ischemia compared to placebo. Twenty (20) mg tadalafil had no significant 
effect on myocardial blood flow, as assessed by PET, both at rest and during pharmacological stress. 
 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic  Modelling  were  conducted  on  the  LVGY  Study  Population. 
The  LVGY  Population  PK/PD  model  predicted  that  subjects  who  benefited  most  from  tadalafil 
treatment  received  doses  of  at  least  20  mg  tadalafil  once-daily,  irrespective  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
influence  of  bosentan  and  other  disease  or  subject-specific  factors.  The  results  of  the  LVGY  are 
discussed in section 3.3.2.2. 
 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances  
The pivotal study LVGY in patients with PAH included a subgroup of patients already on bosentan 
therapy (endothelin receptor blocker) who were administered tadalafil. In addition, pharmacodynamic 
interaction studies with alcohol, nitrates, alpha-blockers, antihypertensives, aspirin and warfarin were 
included  in  the  initial  marketing  authorisation  application  for  Cialis  and  Adcirca.  Only  a  brief 
description of studies is given here: 
Theoretically, adding a PDE5 inhibitor (i.e. tadalafil) to an endothelin receptor blocker (i.e. bosentan) 
would result in a potentiation of the pharmacodynamic effect. Nevertheless, bosentan is an enzymatic 
inducer  of  tadalafil  metabolism,  thus  reducing  tadalafil  exposure.  The  possible  benefit  of  adding 
tadalafil  in  patients  already  on  bosentan  are  discussed  in  section  3.3.2.2.  Several  pharmacodynamic 
interaction  studies  of  tadalafil  with  alcohol,  nitrates,  alpha-blockers,  antihypertensives,  aspirin  and 
warfarin have been performed. Relevant results from these studies are already included in section 4.5 
of the SPC. 
 
Genetic differences in PD response 
No  data  on  possible  genetic  differences  in  PD  response  have  been  submitted  in  this  variation 
application.  PDEs  belong  to  a  large  superfamily  [11  different  gene  families  (PDEs  1–11)]  of 
structurally  related,  functionally  distinct,  and  highly  regulated  enzymes  (Francis  et  al.,  2001).  Most 
cells contain representatives of multiple PDE gene families, but in different amounts, proportions, and 
subcellular locations. PDE5 isoforms (PDE5A1-3) are relatively abundant in vascular smooth muscle, 
including  the  pulmonary  vasculature  and  corpus  cavernosum  of  the  penis,  where  they  apparently 
regulate hydrolysis of cGMP pools that modulate vasodilation (Corbin & Francis, 2002; Corbin, et al., 
2002). PDE5A1 and PDE5A2 are ubiquitous, but PDE5A3 is specific to smooth muscle (Lin, et al., 
2006).  Genetic  variants  of  the  PDE5A  may  predispose  to  essential  hypertension  (EH)  and  erectile 
dysfunction (ED) and could affect the local and systemic response to PDE5 inhibitors. A recent study 
showed no correlations of a novel polymorphism of the PDE5A promoter gene with the intermediate 
phenotype EH/ED and the blood pressure and heart rate response to sildenafil administration (Salvi, et 
al,.2004).  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.2.  Clinical efficacy 
As  indicated  in  the  table  below,  one  pivotal  study  (LVGY)  was  submitted  to  support  this  variation 
application for the PAH indication. The primary objective in Study LVGY was to evaluate the efficacy 
and safety of tadalafil 2.5, 10, 20, and 40 mg administered once daily for 16 weeks in the treatment of 
subjects with PAH.  Additionally, there is an ongoing, multicenter, 2-part extension of Study LVGY 
(Study  LVGX).  Part  1  is  a  blinded  treatment  extension  of  Study  LVGY  to  evaluate  the  long-term 
safety (primary objective) and efficacy (secondary objective) of tadalafil 20 and 40 mg administered 
once  daily  for  52 weeks.    Part  2  is  an  open-label  extension  of  which  the  primary  objective  is  to 
evaluate the long-term safety of tadalafil 40 mg administered once daily.  
Table 1 - Summary of efficacy studies submitted to support the registration of tadalafil for PAH  
Study ID 
H6D-MC-
LVGY 
(PHIRST-
1)§ 
No. of 
study 
centres / 
locations 
82 study 
sites (EU, 
US, and 
Japan) 
H6D-MC-
LVGX  
(PHIRST-
2)§ 
82 study 
sites (EU, 
US, and 
Japan) 
Design/ 
Control 
Type 
Study Posology* 
No. of Subjects by arm; 
Entered/Completed 
Duration 
Parallel, 
randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled 
Tadalafil 2.5 mg OD 
Tadalafil 10 mg OD 
Tadalafil 20 mg OD 
Tadalafil 40 mg OD 
Placebo mg OD 
Extension to 
Study 
LVGY: 
double-blind 
followed by 
an open-label 
period 
Part 1 (double-blind; 
52-weeks): 
-Tadalafil 20 mg OD† 
-Tadalafil 40 mg OD‡ 
Part 2 (open-label): 
Tadalafil 40 mg OD  
(all patients; 
reduction to 20 mg 
OD in case of drug 
intolerance) 
Randomized and treated: 
323 tadalafil, 82 placebo 
(total = 405) 
Completed: 
272 tadalafil, 69 placebo 
(84.2% and 84.1%) 
Entered (from study 
LVGY):   
357 tadalafil  
(40 mg = 294; 20 mg = 63) 
Completed Part 1: 
293 tadalafil  
(40 mg = 241; 20 mg =  
52) 
16 weeks 
(treatment 
period) + 
2 weeks 
(Follow-up) 
Double-
blind: 52 
weeks 
Open-label: 
long-term 
(variable) 
Gender 
M/F 
Median 
Age 
M & F 
21%/79% 
Age: 54 
yrs 
M & F 
22% & 
78% 
Age: 54 
yrs 
Primary 
Endpoin
t 
6MWD 
at end of 
treatment 
(Week-
16) 
Safety 
and 
tolerabili
ty 
OD = once-daily; 6MWD = 6-minute walk distance; W = week. 
* Subjects who had been treated for PAH with stable bosentan therapy for at least 12 weeks were permitted to continue bosentan therapy during the study.   
†Tadalafil 20 mg: Subjects who completed study LVGY without clinical worsening and were receiving tadalafil 20 mg 
‡Tadalafil  40  mg:  Subjects  who  discontinued  study  LVGY  due  to  clinical  worsening  and  were  receiving  tadalafil  2.5,  10,  20  mg,  or  placebo;  Subjects  who 
completed study LVGY and had clinical worsening at the week 16 visit and were receiving tadalafil 2.5, 10, 20 mg, or placebo; Subjects who completed study 
LVGY without clinical worsening and were receiving tadalafil 2.5, 10, 40 mg, or placebo. 
§ Acronym of the study in www.clinicaltrials.gov  
1.3.2.1.   Dose response studies 
The choice of tadalafil dose-range in the LVGY study is based on previous experience in ED and also 
in limited reports on the use in patients with PAH. Single doses of tadalafil up to 100 mg for 21 days 
have been administered and tolerated in tadalafil clinical studies in ED (Study LVBG and LVBI). In 
the  LVGY  pivotal  study,  tadalafil  was  administered  orally,  once  daily  within  a  2.5-  to  40-mg  dose 
range. Dosage groups above once-daily tadalafil 40 mg were not included in the PAH studies due to 
previously  observed  limitations  in  tadalafil  absorption  and  indications  of  limited  haemodynamic 
improvements  beyond  tadalafil  40  mg  (Ghofrani  et  al.  2004).  In  that  study,  tadalafil  reduced  mean 
pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) following a single dose of 20, 40, or 60 mg equivalently to a single 
dose of sildenafil 50 mg in patients with PAH (Ghofrani et al. 2004).  In a study of 16 patients with 
Eisenmenger syndrome, patients taking tadalafil 1 mg/kg (up to 40 mg) experienced a mean decrease 
in  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  (PVR)  and  improvements  in  mean  systemic  oxygen  saturation  and 
World Health Organisation (WHO) functional class (Mukhopadhyay et al. 2006).  In another study of 
12 patients who switched from a once-daily dose of sildenafil 100 to 150 mg (for 3 to 6 months) to a 
once-daily  dose  of  tadalafil  10  to  20 mg  (for  3  to  6  months),  subjects  showed  significant 
improvements from baseline with no significant difference between the 2 therapies in 6-minute walk 
distance  (6MWD),  New  York  Heart  Association  (NYHA)  score/WHO  functional  class,  Borg 
dyspnoea score, and Short Form-36v2 (SF-36) physical function scores for both therapies (Tay et al. 
2008). Additionally, tadalafil led to marked functional improvement in a patient with severe idiopathic 
PAH 2 weeks after initiation of a dose of tadalafil 20 mg/day (Palmieri et al. 2004).  After 6 months of 
treatment  with  tadalafil  20  mg/d,  one  42-year  old  female  with  idiopathic  PAH  experienced 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvement from WHO Functional Class (from III to II), in QoL and exercise tolerance (Affuso et al. 
2006). 
1.3.2.2.   Study LVGY 
Methods 
Study LVGY was a multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  tadalafil  2.5,  10,  20,  and  40  mg  administered  once  daily  for  16  weeks  in  the 
treatment  of  subjects  with  PAH.  Study  LVGY  randomized  406  subjects  at  82  study  sites  in  North 
America, Europe, and Japan. Tadalafil was administered orally, once daily within a 2.5- to 40-mg dose 
range. Treatment duration was 16 weeks. The study lasted 2 years (Date of first patient enrolled: 18 
August 2005; Date of last patient completed: 16 August 2007). 
 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion criteria were the following: 
  Subjects were at least 12 years of age, body weight ≥ 40 kg (at screening) and had a diagnosis 
of PAH that was idiopathic, related to collagen disease, related to anorexigen use, related to 
human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  infection,  associated  with  an  atrial  septal  defect,  or 
associated  with  surgical  repair  of  at  least  1  year  in  duration  of  a  congenital  systemic-to-
pulmonary shunt (for example, ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus).  
 
  The diagnosis was established by a resting mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) ≥25 mm 
Hg,  pulmonary  wedge  pressure  ≤15  mm  Hg,  and  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  (PVR)  ≥3 
Wood units via right heart catheterization.  
If on bosentan, must have been on a maintenance dose ≤ 125 mg twice-daily for at least 12 
weeks  prior  to  screening  and  have  a  screening  for  aspartate  transaminase  (AST)/alanine 
transaminase  (ALT)  <3  times  the  upper  limit  of  normal  (ULN);  If  on  beraprost  sodium 
(allowed  for  subjects  only  in  Japan),  must  have  been  on  for  at  least  9  consecutive  months 
before study entry, must have been on a maintenance dose ≤180 µg per day, and must have 
had no evidence of significant parenchymal lung disease, as evidenced by pulmonary function 
tests within 6 months of screening showing total lung capacity ≥ 60% predicted;  
  Had 6MW test distance ≥ 150 and ≤ 450 meters at screening;  
  Had WHO Functional Class I, II, III, or IV status;  
  A female subject of childbearing potential must have had a negative serum pregnancy test at 
the screening visit and agreed to use 2 medically reliable methods of contraception until study 
completion;  
  Written informed consent was obtained prior to any study procedure being performed. 
 
Treatments 
The following figure shows treatment period in each group.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the phosphodiesterase 
type  5  (PDE5)  inhibitor  tadalafil  in  the  treatment  of  subjects  with  arterial  pulmonary  arterial 
hypertension  (PAH).  A  secondary  objective  was  to  evaluate  tadalafil  population  pharmacokinetics. 
Safety was evaluated using adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECGs), 
and  clinical  laboratory  data.  Population  pharmacokinetics  was  assessed  by  plasma  tadalafil 
concentrations. 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint:  
  6-minute  walk  (6MW)  distance  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16.  The  6MW  test  was 
conducted  according  to  “Guidelines  for  conduct  of  6-minute  walk  test”  (modified  from  the 
American Thoracic Society Statement, Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2002; 166:111-7). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: 
  WHO functional class change from baseline to Week 16. 
  Time  to  first  occurrence  of  clinical  worsening,  defined  as  any  of  the  following:  death,  lung 
transplantation,  atrial  septostomy,  hospitalization  due  to  worsening  PAH,  initiation  of  new 
PAH  therapy  (for  example,  prostacyclin  or  analog,  endothelin  receptor  antagonist,  PDE5 
inhibitor), or worsening of WHO functional class. 
  Change in Borg dyspnoea score from baseline to Week 16. 
 
In  a  subgroup  of  subjects,  cardiopulmonary  haemodynamic  (includes  heart  rate,  mean 
pulmonary  artery  pressure  [mPAP],  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  [PVR],  mean  right  atrial 
pressure  [mRAP],  cardiac  index  [CI],  cardiac  output  [CO],  pulmonary  capillary  wedge 
pressure  [PCWP],  mean  arterial  pressure  [mAP],  mixed  venous  oxygen  saturation  [MVO2], 
systemic  arterial  oxygen  saturation[SaO2],  and  systemic  vascular  resistance  [SVR])  changes 
from baseline to Week 16. 
  Quality  of  life  (QoL),  as  measured  by  Short-Form-36v2  (SF-36v2)  Health  Survey  and 
European Quality of Life (EuroQoL) Questionnaire scores from baseline to Week 16. 
 
Sample size, randomisation and statistical methods 
A sample size of 400 subjects (80 subjects/treatment group) was to provide approximately 90% power 
at  an  α-level  (two-sided)  of  0.001  to  detect  a  45-meter  placebo-adjusted  treatment  effect  in  6MWD 
(change from baseline to Week 16). This sample size was calculated based upon a common SD of 60 
meters. A simple t test was assumed for the purpose of sample size calculation. 
Subjects in Study LVGY were randomly assigned to 1 of 5 treatment groups (tadalafil 2.5, 10, 20, 40 
mg,  or  placebo)  in  a  1:1:1:1:1  ratio.  Randomization  was  stratified  by  the  following  factors:  PAH 
etiology (idiopathic/anorexigen use and others), use of bosentan (yes and no), and baseline 6MWD (≤ 
325 and >325 meters). 
Primary and secondary efficacy analyses were done on an intent-to-treat (ITT) basis. The ITT analysis 
includes  all  randomly  assigned  subjects  who  received  study  drug.  Subjects  were  analyzed  by 
randomized  treatment  assignment.  All  variables  were  summarized  by  descriptive  statistics  for  each 
treatment  group.  The  statistics  for  continuous  variables  included  mean,  median,  standard  deviation 
(SD),  minimum,  maximum,  and  number  of  observations.  Discrete  variables  were  summarized  using 
frequencies  and  percentages.  Two-tailed  95%  confidence  intervals  based  on  t  distribution  were  also 
provided for summary statistics presented for efficacy. 
For the primary endpoint (change in the 6MW test from baseline to week-16) the null hypothesis of no 
difference  between  each  of  the  tadalafil  treatment  groups  and  placebo  for  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint was tested using a permutation-based procedure similar to the Mann-Whitney test stratified 
by PAH etiology, bosentan use, and baseline 6MWD (≤325, >325 meters) (Rosenberger and Lachin, 
2002; StatXact Procs for SAS Users, 2004). In the analysis, change from baseline values were ranked 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
without  regard  to  stratum  (including  only  subjects  for  placebo  and  the  active  treatment  arm  being 
tested  in  the  pairwise  comparison)  using  the  observed  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16.  The 
permutation  test  was  performed  using  StatXact  with  Monte  Carlo  enumeration  of  10,000  random 
samples. Step-down testing began with the tadalafil 40-mg dose and then proceeded downward based 
upon  achieving  a  significance  level  of  0.01  for  the  preceding  dose.  Descriptive  analyses  were 
conducted adopting an observed data approach as well as the last observation carried forward (LOCF) 
approach for the change from baseline in 6MWD. The treatment difference compared to placebo and 
the corresponding 95% confidence interval was estimated by Hodges-Lehman method. 
An  additional  analysis  on  the  change  in  6MWD  was  performed  using  2-sample  t  test  stratified  by 
baseline 6MWD, PAH etiology, and bosentan use for all pairwise comparisons with placebo following 
the step-down procedure. The baseline 6MWD was considered as a categorical variable; PAH etiology 
and  bosentan  were  used  as  discrete  variables.  If  6MWD  at  Week  16  was  missing,  the  post-baseline 
LOCF  approach  was  used  for  the  calculation  of  the  change  from  baseline.  Least-squares  (LS)  mean 
treatment differences from the stratified t test are provided. 
Results  
 
Participant flow  
A total of 457 subjects were screened, there were 51 screen failures, the majority of which were due to 
subjects failing the entry criteria. 406 subjects were randomised to receive either placebo (82 patients), 
tadalafil  2.5  mg  (82  patients),  10mg  (80  patients),  20  mg  (82  patients)  or  40  mg  (79  patients)  OD. 
Eighty  two  (82)  centres  in  USA,  Europe,  Japan  and  Canada,  enrolled  subjects  into  this  study.  The 
number of subjects recruited per centre ranged from one to 23. There were two high recruiting centres 
with 23 subjects each one (centre 601 from Italy and centre 113 from USA). 
Figure 1 - Illustration of subject disposition in Study H6D-MC-LVGY. 
51 subjects discontinued during 
screening period 
- Not meeting Inclusion criteria = 41 
- Withdrawal of consent = 5 
- Investigator decision = 3 
Adverse events = 2 
The  rate  of  patients  who  completed  the  16-week  treatment  was  similar  across  different  groups. 
Discontinuations due to adverse events were slightly higher in the placebo group and tadalafil 2.5 mg 
group as compared with the other treatment groups. 
 
Baseline data 
Demographics and baseline characteristics are summarised in the Table below.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 - Demographics and Baseline Characteristics Summary and Analysis by Randomized Study 
Treatment Group - All ITT Subjects 
PAH  etiology:  247  (61%)  total  patients  had  idiopathic  PAH  and  95  (23%)  total  patients  had  PAH 
related to collagen vascular disease. 
Functional class at baseline: 130 (32%) total patients were on WHO functional class II and 264 (65%) 
total patients were on functional class III. 
Concomitant medications that could alter efficacy results: a total of 216 patients in the ITT population 
(45  and  171  on  tadalafil)  had  concomitant  treatment  with  bosentan.  Fourteen  patients  in  the  ITT 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population  [placebo  =  2  (2.4%);  tadalafil  =  12  (3.7%)]  had  concomitant  treatment  with  beraprost 
during the study. Thirty-eight patients [placebo = 7 (8.5%); tadalafil = 31 (9.6%)] were on diltiazem 
and 10 patients [placebo 3 (3.7%); tadalafil: 7 (2.2%)] were on verapamil. 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table 3 provides a summary of efficacy results for the primary endpoint. 
Table 3 - Summary of Efficacy - Primary Endpoint (Change from Baseline to End of Treatment [Week 
16]) 
Abbreviations: N = number of randomized subjects who have received study medication; n = number of subject with nonmissing data at baseline and endpoint; 
C.I. = confidence interval; trt = study treatment; Endpoint = Week 16 or the last nonmissing observation in treatment period carried forward. 
*a 95% C.I. is calculated based on t Distribution.  
*b Primary analysis: Permutation test stratified by PAH etiology, bosentan use, and baseline 6-minute walk distance (<= 325 m and >325 m) on rank compared 
to placebo. 
*c Treatment difference compared to Placebo and the confidence intervals are estimated using the methodology of Hodges-Lehmann. 
*d ANCOVA model with Type II sum of squares including the centered baseline of 6MWD (cont.), PAH etiology, and bosentan use. Treatment difference is the 
Active Least Square mean subtract Placebo Least Square mean 
Main efficacy endpoint (Change in 6MW test from baseline to week 16)  
The placebo-adjusted treatment difference for tadalafil 40 mg following the Hodges-Lehman method 
prespecified in the protocol was 26.0 metres (95%CI: 9.5 to 44.0 m; p = 0.0004) (Table 3 and Figure 
2).  The  additional  improvement  in  6MWD  between  tadalafil  40  mg  and  placebo  following  the  “ad 
hoc”  ANOVA  testing  was  32.8  meters  (95%  confidence  interval:  15.2  to  50.3  meters;  p  =  0.0003) 
(Table 3).  
A significant improvement in 6MWD in the tadalafil 40 mg treatment group compared to placebo was 
also observed after 12 weeks of treatment (Change from baseline to week 12: tadalafil 40 mg, +38.47 
m vs. placebo, +16.49 m; p = 0.0084). The improvement in 6MWD in the tadalafil 40 mg treatment 
group compared to placebo was also observed after 8 weeks of treatment but at a significance level of 
no less than 0.01 (Change from baseline to week 8: tadalafil 40 mg, +29.62 m vs. placebo, +18.97 m; 
p  =  0.0152).  Tadalafil  20  mg,  as  well  as  the  2.5  mg  and  10  mg  dose  did  not  meet  the  prespecified 
alpha testing level at 0.01.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 – Six-minute walk distance change from baseline to endpoint (Week 16) for all ITT subjects 
using LOCF. 
Boxplots display 5th (dot), 10th, 25th, 50th, 75th, 90th, 95th (dot) percentile. Mean represented by dotted line. 
Abbreviations: ITT = intent to treat (population); LOCF = last observation carried forward; Tad = tadalafil. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: 
Change in WHO functional class, time to clinical worsening and change in Borg Dyspnoea score is 
shown in the table below. 
Table 4 - Summary of Secondary Endpoints (Change from Baseline to End of Treatment – Week 16) All 
ITT Subjects (N = 405) 
Abbreviations: ITT = intent to treat; N = number of randomized subjects who have received study medication; n = number of subject with nonmissing data at 
baseline and endpoint; PAH = pulmonary arterial hypertension; SD = standard deviation; 6MW = 6-minute walk; a) Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by 
PAH  etiology,  bosentan  use,  and  baseline  6MWD  compared  to  placebo;  b)  Estimate  was  from  Kaplan-Meier  method;  c)  Permutation  test  stratified  by  PAH 
etiology, bosentan use, and baseline 6MWD (=325 and 325 meters) on log-rank score compared to placebo; d) Permutation test stratified by PAH etiology, 
bosentan use, and baseline 6MWD (=325 and 325 meters) on rank compared to placebo. Source: EFFN71GY, EFFN044GY, EFFN04GY, EFFN01GY. 
17 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Time to clinical worsening 
In  total,  13  (15.9%)  patients  on  placebo  and  4  (5.1%)  patients  on  tadalafil  40  mg  had  clinical 
worsening. Mean time to clinical worsening was 106 days in patients randomised to tadalafil 40 mg 
and 101 days in those randomised to placebo (Table 5). 
Table 5 - Summary of Clinical Worsening (All ITT Subjects) 
Abbreviations: N = number of randomized subjects who have received study medication; n = number of subjects per category. 
* Permutation test stratified by PAH etiology, bosentan use, and baseline 6-minute walk distance (<= 325 m and >325 m) on log-rank score. 
Cardiopulmonary Haemodynamics 
Of  405  randomized  and  treated  subjects,  93  were  included  in  the  substudy  of  cardiopulmonary 
haemodynamics. The tadalafil 40 mg treatment group had statistically significant improvements from 
baseline  in  mPAP,  PVR,  CI,  and  CO  (t  test  p<0.05).  However,  post  hoc  analyses  demonstrated  that 
changes  from  baseline  in  cardiopulmonary  haemodynamic  parameters  for  the  tadalafil  40  mg 
treatment group were not significantly different compared to placebo. 
Health Outcomes/Quality of Life Evaluation 
The  tadalafil  40  mg  treatment  group  was  statistically  significantly  improved  in  6  of  8  domains 
(physical-functioning,  role-physical,  bodily  pain,  general  health,  vitality,  and  social  functioning;  all 
p<0.05) of the SF-36 Health Survey. The tadalafil 40 mg treatment group had statistically significant 
improvements in the EuroQoL current health-state  VAS (p=0.0215) and the 2 index scores (US and 
UK; all p<0.001) compared to placebo. 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Predefined  subpopulations  were  evaluated  (bosentan  use  (yes/no),  PAH  etiology,  baseline  6MWD, 
sex,  age,  and  baseline  WHO  functional  class)  for  the  primary  and  key  secondary  efficacy endpoints 
(Figure 3). Since over 50% of subjects enrolled in the study were receiving concomitant bosentan, the 
subpopulation  was  examined  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  tadalafil  as  an  add-on  therapy  to  bosentan. 
This analysis was exploratory and due to the small sample size in this subpopulation, the study 
lacked  adequate  power  to  determine  statistically  significant  differences  within  subgroups, 
even if there were large differences between treatment groups. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 – Tadalafil 40 mg placebo-adjusted change from baseline in 6-minute walk distance (meters) by 
study subpopulation: mean (95% confidence interval) 
Naïve  patients  (no  bosentan  use)  randomised  to  placebo  had  worsening  from  baseline  to  end  of 
treatment  (-2.89  m),  while  placebo  patients  already  on  bosentan  therapy  improved  from  baseline  to 
end of treatment (+18.84 m). The change from baseline to end of treatment in patients randomised to 
tadalafil  40  mg  without  concomitant  bosentan  (+42.18  m)  is  slightly  higher  than  that  obtained  in 
patients receiving concomitant bosentan (+40.15 m). 
1.3.2.3.   Study LVGX: 6-Minute Walk Distance, WHO Functional Class, Borg Dyspnea Score 
LVGX  was  a  extension  of  study  LVGY.  Part  1  is  a  blinded  treatment  extension  of  Study  LVGY  to 
evaluate  the  long-term  safety  (primary  objective)  and  efficacy  (secondary  objective)  of  tadalafil  20 
and  40  mg  administered  once  daily  for  52 weeks.  Part  2  is  an  open-label  extension  of  which  the 
primary objective is to evaluate the long-term safety of tadalafil 40 mg administered once daily. The 
variation  application  included  the  interim  analysis  of  ongoing  Study  LVGX  (data  cut-off  date  of  04 
October 2007). The complete efficacy results for Part 1 of Study LVGX were submitted at the time of 
responses to request for supplementary information (database lock 13 November 2008).  
 
6-Minute Walk Distance 
Table 6 presents the final 6-MW results for all subjects who entered and received study treatment in 
Part 1 of Study LVGX, and includes baseline 6-MW distance in Study LVGY. Subjects receiving an 
unchanged dose of tadalafil 20 mg (P:20 to 20 mg) had an improvement from Study LVGY baseline 
of 353 m (median 362 m) to a Study LVGX endpoint [52 weeks, LOCF] mean of 402 m (median 401 
m).  Subjects  receiving  an  unchanged  dose  of  tadalafil  40  mg  (P:40  to  40  mg)  had  an  improvement 
from  Study  LVGY  baseline  mean  of  356  m  (median  380  m)  to  Study  LVGX  endpoint  [52  weeks, 
LOCF] mean of 400 m (median 420 m). It appears that subjects have similar improvement in exercise 
capacity, whether taking tadalafil 20 mg or tadalafil 40 mg.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 – 6-minute Walk Distance (meters) by Visits and Endpoint – Summary by Study Treatment and 
Study Treatment in Previous Study – All Subjects Entered and Received Study Treatment (N=357) – 
Study H6D-MC-LVGX (Final 52-Week) 
However, this comparison does not take into account the clinical outcome of tadalafil treatment, such 
as change in WHO Functional Classification, clinical worsening, or death. 
 
Secondary endpoints 
WHO Functional Class:  
Table 7 presents the final WHO Functional Class change from LVGX Part 1 baseline to endpoint, and, 
for reference, the baseline WHO Functional Class status in Study LVGY. Subjects in the P:20 to 20-
mg  and  P:40  to  40-mg  tadalafil  dose  groups  had  similar  WHO  functional  class  at  LVGX  baseline, 
which reflects improvement resulting from 16 weeks of treatment during Study LVGY. Specifically, 
(47/63, 74.6%) subjects in the P:20 to 20-mg tadalafil group were in WHO Functional Class I or II, 
and the remaining subjects were in WHO Functional Class III; and (42/69, 60.9% subjects in the P:40 
to 40-mg tadalafil group were in WHO Functional Class I or II, and the remaining subjects were in 
WHO Functional Class III. At endpoint, 19.4% subjects taking tadalafil 20 mg had worsened, while 
9.0%  subjects  taking  tadalafil  40  mg  had  worsened.  Thus,  as  assessed  by  WHO  Functional  Class, 
worsening of PAH occurred in approximately twice the percentage of subjects taking tadalafil 20 mg 
than tadalafil 40 mg for 16 weeks in Study LVGY plus the 52 weeks of Part 1 of Study LVGX. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 - WHO Functional Class by Visit, Endpoint and Change from Baseline - Summary by Study 
Treatment and Study Treatment in Previous Study - All Subjects Entered and Received Study Treatment 
(N=357) - Study H6D-MC-LVGX (Final 52-Week) 
In patients taking concomitant bosentan, there may be a dilution of tadalafil treatment effect, perhaps 
partly  attributable  to  a  decrease  in  tadalafil  exposure  or  possibly  due  to  greater  clinical  stability  of 
subjects in the bosentan subgroup in Study LVGY. Table 8 presents the final WHO Functional Class 
change data by bosentan use for Part 1 of Study LVGX. In subjects not taking concomitant bosentan, 
30.8%  of  subjects  in  the  P:20  to  20-mg  group  compared  to  6.25%  of  subjects  in  the  P:40  to  40-mg 
group worsened in WHO Functional Class from LVGX baseline to endpoint. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 - WHO Functional Class by Visit, Endpoint and Change from Baseline - Summary by Study 
Treatment and Study Treatment in Previous Study - All Subjects Entered and Received Study Treatment 
No Bosentan Use (N=165) - Study H6D-MC-LVGX (Final 52-Week) 
Time  to  functional  class  deterioration:  Figure  4  presents  the  cumulative  incidence  of  clinical 
worsening across both Study LVGY and Part 1 of Study LVGX for subjects who started on tadalafil 
20  mg  and  tadalafil  40  mg.  Over  the  full  68  weeks  of  the  two  studies,  23  (28.05%)  subjects 
experienced  clinical worsening with tadalafil 20  mg compared to 17 (21.52%) with tadalafil 40 mg. 
Clinical worsening was defined as any of the following: death, lung transplantation, atrial septostomy, 
hospitalisation  due  to  worsening  PAH,  initiation  of  new  PAH  therapy  (for  example,  prostacyclin  or 
analogue,  endothelin  receptor  antagonist,  PDE5  inhibitor),  or  worsening  of  WHO  Functional  Class. 
The Kaplan-Meier curve suggests a separation between tadalafil 20 mg and tadalafil 40 mg after about 
10 weeks (70 days) of treatment. 
Figure 4 - Kaplan-Meier estimated survival curves of clinical worsening summary of analysis by 
treatment All subjects entered and received study unchanged dose level of tadalafil 20 mg or 40 mg in 
Study LVGY through Study LVGX Study H6D-MC-LVGY and its extension Study H6D-MC-LVGX 
1.3.2.4   Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The Draft CHMP Guideline on the Clinical Investigations of Medicinal Products for the Treatment of 
Pulmonary  Arterial  Hypertension  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/356954/2008)  was  considered  for  the 
assessment of this application. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The choice of tadalafil dose-range in the LVGY study (2.5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg and 40 mg, orally, OD) 
is based on previous experience in ED and on limited reports on the use in patients with PAH. Dosage 
groups  above  once-daily  tadalafil  40  mg  were  not  included  in  the  PAH  studies  due  to  previously 
observed limitations in haemodynamic improvements beyond tadalafil 40 mg (Ghofrani et al. 2004). 
Additional  PK  and  PK/PD  simulations  of  tadalafil  40  mg  once-daily  versus  tadalafil  20  mg  twice 
daily, suggested that 20 mg twice-daily administration results in a 55% higher exposure than 40 mg 
once-daily. The proposed posology (40 mg, once-daily) was therefore considered acceptable. 
The pivotal study LVGY was a placebo-controlled study. Although until now clinical trials with other 
products for this indication have been placebo-controlled, it would have been desirable to have an arm 
with an active control. However these trials versus placebo could be considered acceptable bearing in 
mind  the  methodological  difficulties  in  performing  a  non-inferiority  trial  in  this  specific  population. 
The  duration  of  the  study  (16  weeks)  is  adequate.  The  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria,  objectives, 
sample size calculation, the stratified randomisation performed, the methods used to ensure masking 
and statistical methods are considered adequate. 
“Ad  hoc”  analyses  using  ANCOVA  in  addition  to  the  prespecified  Hodges-Lehman  method  were 
conducted  and  justified  by  the  MAH  mainly  due  to  the  unexpectedly  high  rate  of  patients  with 
concomitant  bosentan.  The  results  obtained  with  the  ANCOVA  “ad-hoc”  method  with  mean  values 
has overestimated the net effect of tadalafil in the 6MWD compared with the pre-specified Hodges-
Lehman  method with median values. In this case, in which the change in 6MWD does not follow a 
normal  distribution,  the  pre-specified  non-parametric  Hodges-Lehman  method  is  more  appropriate 
than  the  ANCOVA  ad-hoc  method.  Nevertheless,  according  to  the  information  provided  for  other 
medicinal products intended for use in PAH, it is acceptable to include also the mean values in section 
5.1 of the SPC. 
The primary endpoint was the change from baseline (defined as the mean 6MWD of the last two 6MW 
Tests prior to randomization) in 6MW test evaluated after 16 weeks of treatment compared to placebo. 
Additional  comparisons  at  weeks  8  and  12  were  also  done.  The  suitability  of  6MW  test  as  a  stand-
alone primary endpoint in PAH is at present under discussion being current challenges for the 6MW 
Test the adequate validation in non-idiopathic PAH or less severe functional classes in PAH patients, 
definition  of  the  minimal  meaningful  clinical  differences  (clinical  impact),  definition  of  therapeutic 
goals and its relation to survival. The ceiling effect of the test, which becomes more patent in patients 
who  are  taking  several  drugs  or  patients  with  less  severe  forms  (e.g.  functional  class  II  patients)  is 
another drawback of this endpoint. However this variable, which has been used as a primary endpoint 
for the registration of PAH drugs so far, remains useful with regard to comparisons with other drugs to 
assess  function  and  symptomatic  improvement  although  it  must  be  recognised  that  it  cannot  give  a 
complete  picture  of  the  effect  of  the  drug.  This  is  relevant  when  considering  the  lack  of  clear 
correlation between improvement in exercise capacity and survival.  The inclusion of clinical variables 
as  secondary  endpoints  is  also  important  to  support  the  efficacy  of  a  drug  for  which  an  effect  on 
exercise  capacity  is  observed.  The  clinical  endpoints  included  as  secondary  endpoints  in  this 
application were considered adequate. The proposed duration of the study was considered acceptable. 
Most patients recruited into the study had idiopathic PAH or PAH related to vascular collagen disease, 
which is consistent with the population included in the indication requested. The indication requested 
by  the  MAH  includes  functional  classes  II  and  III  since  the  pivotal  study  theoretically  involved 
patients with both functional classes. According to the MAH 65% were functional class III and 32% 
were functional class II. Concerns were raised not only in relation to the representativeness of patients 
included  in  class  II  but  also  to  the  magnitude  of  the  effect  achieved  that  was  limited  and  not 
statistically significant. The MAH was requested to further characterise these patients according to the 
clinical and functional criteria currently used in clinical practice (e.g. baseline 6MWD, haemodynamic 
characteristics,  background  medications,  etc).  From  the  additional  information  provided,  it  seemed 
that patients with functional class II and III may be differentiated on the basis on the 6MWH and Borg 
dyspnoea  score  at  baseline.  On  the  contrary,  neither  haemodynamic  parameters  nor  concomitant 
medications allowed differentiating class II patients from class III patients. However, the MAH argued 
that  these  haemodynamic  results  could  be  related  to  the  small  sample  size  within  these  subgroups 
and/or the high proportion of subjects taking bosentan at baseline. In addition, the MAH argued that 
23 
 
 
 
 
the relationship between WHO Functional Class and haemodynamic parameters in patients with PAH 
is currently unclear. This rationale is acceptable. The effect on 6MWD was similar in both classes II 
and  III.  The  MAH  included  an  “ad-hoc”  ANCOVA  analysis,  which  overestimated  the  net  effect  on 
6MWD  compared  with  the  pre-specified  non-parametric  Hodges-Lehman  method.  Nevertheless,  the 
results  were  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  tadalafil  40  mg  versus  placebo  with  both  testing 
methods in both class II and III. 
Regarding  the  primary  endpoint,  data  provided  show  that  tadalafil  40  mg  significantly  improves 
6MWD test compared to placebo (26.0 meters, p=0.0004) at week 16. Additional comparisons at week 
12  also  revealed  a  significant  improvement  in  6MWD  with  respect  to  placebo  for  the  highest  dose 
although  the  changes  are  not  statistically  significant  for  the  rest  of  the  doses.  The  magnitude  of  the 
effect  observed  at  weeks  16  and  12  for  tadalafil  40  mg  is  similar  to  that  for  other  licensed  drugs. 
However these results are difficult to assess given the heterogenicity of the population included in the 
pivotal  trial  (different  PAH  aetiologies  and  functional  classes)  and  the  variety  of  concomitant 
medications  that  could  have  an  effect  on  efficacy  (bosentan,  beraprost,  calcium-channel  blockers). 
Therefore,  additional  analysis  focused  on  intrasubject  comparison  (responders  rate)  rather  than  on 
intergroup  comparison  were  requested.  These  responder  analyses  further  support  the  superiority  of 
tadalafil 40 mg versus placebo either in the whole study population or in the subgroup of patients not 
on bosentan therapy, and also the choice of the tadalafil 40 mg dose versus the lower tadalafil doses.  
In relation to secondary endpoints tadalafil did not improve WHO functional class. According to step-
down  testing,  after  not  achieving  significant  differences  in  the  WHO  functional  class,  no  p-values 
should have been calculated for the remaining secondary variables and the data presented should be 
interpreted  as  a  descriptive  analysis.  Changes  in  Borg  dyspnea  score  or  cardiopulmonary 
haemodynamics  was  similar  in  the  placebo  and  tadalafil  groups.  The  improvement  by  6  days  in  the 
secondary endpoint “time to clinical worsening” is of doubtful clinical significance. Nevertheless, the 
percent  of  patients  with  no  clinical  worsening  by  week  16  (5%  vs.  16%)  does  seem  to  be  clinically 
significant  bearing  in  mind  that  usually  longer  periods  of  time  are  necessary  to  demonstrate  an 
improvement in time to clinical worsening.  
The  MAH  provided  subgroup  analyses  for  6MWD  according  to  concomitant  bosentan  use,  PAH 
aetiology, baseline 6MWD, gender, age and baseline WHO functional class.  
The results on the 6MWD in the whole population were statistically significant in favour of tadalafil 
40 mg versus placebo but in the lower range of other products intended for this indication. In patients 
not  on  bosentan  therapy,  tadalafil  40  mg  is  consistently  more  effective  than  placebo  in  the 
improvement in 6MWD in different subpopulations by PAH aetiology, functional class and baseline 
6MWD, which is consistent with the statistically significant results in the whole study population.  
Ancillary analyses provided by the MAH in the subgroup of patients receiving concomitant bosentan 
show that the representative patients who may benefit from adding tadalafil 40 mg to bosentan is those 
on functional class II but with a baseline 6-MWD of less than 325 m. These results are not consistent, 
since  functional  class  II  in  study  LVGY  corresponds  with  a  median  6MWD  at  baseline  by  388  m, 
whereas  functional  class  III  corresponds  with  a  median  6MWD  at  baseline  by  334  m.  It  has  been 
confirmed that a pharmacokinetic interaction between tadalafil and bosentan exists, leading to lower 
tadalafil systemic exposure, and that a negative effect of bosentan on tadalafil efficacy cannot be ruled 
out.  The  responders’  analyses  also  showed  no  significant  differences  between  tadalafil  40  mg  and 
placebo in patients already on bosentan therapy in the rate of responders/non-responders. Therefore, 
the  efficacy  of  tadalafil  in  patients  already  on  bosentan  therapy  has  not  been  conclusively 
demonstrated. This issue has been addressed in sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 of the SPC. 
With respect to the aetiology the subgroup analysis shows a significant effect of tadalafil on 6MWD 
both  in  patients  with  idiopathic  and  connective-tissue  disease  pulmonary  hypertension.  Unlike  other 
PAH  products  tadalafil  shows  a  greater  effect  on  connective-tissue  disease  than  on  idiopathic  PAH. 
No effect is observed for repaired S-P shunts and other types of PAH subgroups.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effect of tadalafil on 6MWD is observed in females compared to those on placebo. Males show 
little improvement but no conclusion can be drawn due to the small number of  men included in the 
study.  Analysis  of  the  6MWD  according  to  predefined  body-weight  ranges,  showed  that  6MWD 
change from baseline measures were comparable across weight groups within each treatment with the 
greatest  magnitude  of  change  from  baseline  in  those  receiving  20-mg  and  40-mg  tadalafil.  In 
particular, no loss of efficacy was apparent in patients weighing more than 90 kg. 
Subjects receiving unchanged treatment of tadalafil 20 mg from Study LVGY through Study LVGX 
had similar net improvements in the 6-MWD at study endpoint than those patients receiving tadalafil 
40  mg  through  Study  LVGX  (net  change  from  baseline  (+39  m  vs.  +40  m).  Nevertheless,  data  on 
number  of  patients  with  clinical  worsening,  time  to  clinical  worsening  and  improvement  in  WHO 
functional  class  are  consistently  in  favour  of  the  40  mg  dose  versus  the  20  mg  dose,  and  consistent 
with  the  additional  analysis  of  responders,  supporting  the  choice  of  the  40  mg  dose  as  the  more 
effective dose tested in the study LVGY. 
1.3.3.  Clinical safety 
 
Patient exposure 
Of  the  405  subjects  in  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population  of  Study  LVGY,  402  had  exposure  data 
(placebo: 82, tadalafil: 320). Exposure cannot be calculated for the remaining 3 subjects for whom the 
last dose of medication was not reported and no medication was returned. Of the 320 tadalafil-treated 
subjects with exposure data, 282 were treated for at least 12 weeks. Total exposure was 92.51 subject-
years  and  includes  the  tadalafil  20  and  40  mg  treatment  groups  in  which  the  majority  of  subjects 
(69 and 72 subjects, respectively) were exposed to tadalafil for at least 12 weeks.  
In  Study  LVGX,  357  subjects  entered,  received  study  medication,  and  were  evaluated  for  safety  in 
Part  1  (52  weeks).  Of  these,  352  subjects  had  exposure  data  (62  tadalafil  20  mg  and  290  tadalafil 
40 mg).  Study  medication  was  taken  orally,  once  daily.  The  mean  number  of  days  on  therapy  was 
326.64 and the mean number of doses taken was 322.93. Total exposure to tadalafil in subject-years 
was 314.79 (tadalafil 20 mg, 55.48 subject years; tadalafil 40 mg, 259.31 subject-years). 
From  the  results  of  a  pooled  analysis  of  exposure  data  from  67  clinical  pharmacology  studies 
conducted  worldwide,  although  5  formulations  were  administered  in  these  studies  (oral  suspension, 
PEG solution, co-precipitate tablet, soft gelatin capsule, and market image formulation), the exposure 
(AUC) was generally comparable across studies. Thus, safety data from all formulations are included 
in  this  section.  The  formulation  used  in  most  studies  was  the  market-image  tablet.  In  these  pooled 
studies, a total of 2,157 subjects received at least 1 dose of tadalafil. 
 
Adverse events 
PAH Pivotal Trial (LVGY) 
Overall the proportion of patients in the pivotal trial with any treatment emergent adverse event was 
higher in the tadalafil groups (any dose) as compared to placebo (p = 0.035) and also in the tadalafil 40 
mg  group  with  respect  to  placebo  (p  =  0.004).  Nevertheless,  the  rate  of  serious  adverse  events  was 
similar in all treatment groups (Table 9). 
The proportion of subjects with an AE considered by the investigator as treatment related (treatment-
related AEs) was also statistically significantly different among treatment groups overall and greater in 
the tadalafil 10, 20, and 40 mg treatment groups compared to placebo. There was a dose-trend for AEs 
related to tadalafil from 41.5% for the 2.5 mg dose to 65.8% with the 40 mg dose. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 - Overview of patients with treatment emergent adverse events (study LVGY) 
Variable 
Subjects with AEs (all causality)  
Subjects with AEs (possibly related to study 
drug) 
Discontinuations due to AEs 
Subjects with SAEs 
Subjects with SAEs (possibly related to study 
drug) 
Deaths (all causality) 
Deaths (possibly related to study drug) 
*p vs placebo = 0.035; †p vs placebo < 0.01; ‡p vs placebo < 0.001 
13 (15.9)
12 (14.6)
2 (2.4) 
1 (1.2) 
0 (0.0) 
Placebo 
(n=82) 
Tadalafil 
(any dose) 
N = 323 
65 (79.3) 288 (89.2)*  72 (87.8)
75 (94.9)† 
28 (34.1) 185 (57.3)‡  34 (41.5) 53 (66.3) ‡  46 (56.1) † 52 (65.8)‡ 
20 mg  
(n=82) 
10 mg  
(n=80) 
2.5 mg 
(n=82) 
40 mg 
(n=79) 
72 (90.0) 
69 (84.1) 
36 (11.1) 
42 (13.1) 
8 (2.5) 
13 (15.9)
14 (17.1)
0 (0.0) 
7 (8.8) 
10 (12.5) 
2 (2.5) 
9 (11.0) 
11 (13.4) 
4 (4.9) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (1.3) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (1.2) 
1 (1.2) 
7 (8.9) 
7 (8.9) 
2 (2.5) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
Headache was the most commonly reported AE related to study drug across the 5 treatment groups. 
The  common  AEs  that  were  reported  in  a  numerically  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  tadalafil 
treatment  groups  combined  compared  with  placebo,  or  in  tadalafil  20  mg  and/or  tadalafil  40  mg 
treatment groups compared with placebo included: headache, diarrhoea, nausea, back pain, dizziness, 
dyspepsia,  flushing,  myalgia,  nasopharyngitis,  dyspnoea,  pain  in  extremity,  muscle  spasms,  upper 
respiratory tract infection, epistaxis, cough, palpitations, arthralgia, chest pain, vomiting, fatigue, nasal 
congestion,  oedema,  bronchitis,  rash,  gastroesophageal  reflux  disease,  contusion,  hypoaesthesia, 
respiratory tract infection, and dry mouth.  
PAH extension Trial (LVGX) 
Table 10 - Overview of patients with treatment emergent adverse events (study LVGX – interim report 
data cut-off: 4 October 2007) 
Variable*a 
T20 
T40  
P:Pla 
(n=75) 
(n=63) 
56 (88.9)
27 (42.9)
64 (85.3) 
38 (50.7) 
Subjects with AEs (all causality)  
Subjects with AEs (possibly related to study 
drug) *c 
Discontinuations due to AEs 
Subjects with SAEs 
Subjects with SAEs (possibly related to study 
drug) 
Deaths (all causality) *b 
Deaths (possibly related to study drug) 
T2.5-20 = Tadalafil 2.5-20mg; T20 = Tadalafil 20mg; T40= Tadalafil 40mg. 
*a - Subjects may be counted in more than one category. 
*b - Deaths are also included as serious adverse events and discontinuations due to adverse events. 
*c - Includes events that were considered possibly related to study drug as judged by the investigator. 
5 (7.9) 
13 (20.6)
- 
4 (5.3) 
20 (26.7) 
- 
2 (3.2) 
1 (1.6) 
2 (2.7) 
0 (0.0) 
T40 
P:T.2.5-20 
(n=150 
131 (87.3) 
70 (46.7) 
All T40 
T40 
P:T40 
(n=69) 
61 (88.4)  256 (87.1)
31 (44.9)  139 (47.3)
(n=294) 
TOTAL 
(N=357) 
312 (87.4) 
166 (46.5) 
14 (9.3) 
40 (26.7) 
- 
6 (8.7) 
10 (14.5) 
- 
24 (8.23) 
70 (23.8) 
- 
29 (8.1) 
83 (23.2) 
10 (2.8) 
5 (3.3) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (2.9) 
0 (0.0) 
9 (3.1) 
0 (0.0) 
11 (3.1) 
1 (0.3) 
Clinical Pharmacology studies (67 pooled studies) 
The results from 67 clinical pharmacology studies were pooled. Summaries of treatment-related AEs 
reported in ≥2% of subjects in the tadalafil dose groups combined were provided in this application. 
Treatment-emergent adverse events  were reported in 74.8% (1536/2053) of tadalafil-treated subjects 
and  44.4%  (572/1289)  of  non-tadalafil-treated  subjects.  The  most  common  AEs  for  tadalafil-treated 
subjects were headache, followed by back pain, myalgia and dizziness.  
 
Serious adverse events, deaths and other significant adverse events 
Deaths  
There were three deaths during the LVGY study. Of these deaths, 2 (0,6%) occurred in the combined 
tadalafil  groups  and  1  death  (1,2%)  occurred  in  the  placebo  group.  The  mortality  rate  during  Study 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LVGY was 2.2 subjects per 100 person-years for the combined tadalafil dose group and 4.3 subjects 
per  100  person-years  for  the  placebo  treatment  group.  The  three  deaths  occurred  in  1  patient 
randomised to placebo (death due to PAH), 1 death in the tadalafil 10 mg group (sudden death) and 1 
death in the tadalafil 20 mg group (histiocytosis haematophagic syndrome). One death (Subject in the 
tadalafil 20 mg group) was considered by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment.  
Eleven  (3.1%)  of  357  subjects  died  during  the  LVGX  reporting  period,  which  corresponds  to  a 
mortality rate of 4.6 per 100 person-years (combined tadalafil dose group). Of these, 10 were WHO 
Functional Class III and 1 was WHO Functional Class IV at baseline of Study LVGY. The SAEs that 
resulted in death were right ventricular failure (2 subjects: tadalafil 40 mg), sudden cardiac death (2 
subjects: tadalafil 40 mg), pneumonia (2 subjects: tadalafil 40 mg), lung adenocarcinoma (1 subject: 
tadalafil 40 mg), cardiac arrest (1 subject: tadalafil 40 mg), myocardial infarction (1 subject: tadalafil 
40  mg),  death  (1  subject:  tadalafil  20  mg),  and  sudden  death  (1  subject:  tadalafil  20  mg).  The  one 
death reported as “death” was considered by the investigator as being possibly related to study drug  
Serious adverse events 
SAEs rates, including SAEs of cardiovascular nature, were relatively low and similar in the placebo 
and sildenafil groups in the LVGY study.  
There were a total of 83 (23.2%) patients with SAEs during the reported period of trial LVGX study. 
Eleven patients died due to SAEs. Fourteen SAEs in 10 patients were considered by the investigator to 
be treatment-related of which 1 was fatal.  
Other significant adverse events 
The incidence of bleeding events was similar in the placebo and tadalafil groups in study LVGY. In 
study LVGY no cases of cataracts of macular degeneration were reported. However, in study LVGX, 
5 (1.4%) subjects had cataract: 2 of 63 (3.2%) patients on tadalafil 20 mg and 3 of 294 (1%) patients 
on  tadalafil  40  mg.  Therefore,  no  dose-trend  is  apparent  for  the  development  of  cataracts.  In  study 
LVGX, 4 patients had macular degeneration: 1 of 63 (1.6%) patients on tadalafil 20 mg and 3 of 294 
(1%) patients on tadalafil 40 mg. Therefore, no dose-trend is apparent for the development of macular 
degeneration.  Most  patients  had  concomitant  predisposing  risk  factors  for  these  ocular  events.  In 
addition,  the  rate  of  ocular  events  seen  in  study  LVGX  may  be  within  expected  in  the  general 
population.  
 
Laboratory findings and vital sign data 
The following parameters were assessed in Study LVGY and Study LVGX: haematology, coagulation 
(including  INR),  urinalysis,  and  serum  chemistry  panel  (including  AST/ALT).  For  every  parameter 
assessed, there were minimal mean differences and minimal differences across treatment groups.  
Review  of  vital  sign  data  did  not  show  evidence  of  clinically  meaningful  changes  associated  with 
tadalafil treatment. 
 
Safety in special populations 
In  clinical  study  LVGY  in  PAH,  there  was  a  higher  number  of  patients  of  75  years  or  older  who 
experienced AEs in the tadalafil groups than in  the placebo group (91.3% vs. 72.7%). Nevertheless, 
these  rates  are  similar  to  the  tadalafil  89.2%  vs  placebo  79.3%  AE  rates  seen  in  the  whole  LVGY 
study population. One pregnancy case with positive outcome was reported during tadalafil studies in 
PAH. 
 
Immunological events 
One case of drug hypersensitivity was reported in study LVGY in one patient randomised to tadalafil 
40 mg, which leaded to drug discontinuation. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Subgroups  analyses  were  made  in  studies  LVGY  and  LVGX  including  bosentan  use,  CYP3A4 
inhibitor  use,  and  use  of  synthetic  estrogens.  Patients  on  bosentan  plus  placebo  showed  a  trend 
towards a higher incidence of AEs than patients on placebo alone (84.4% vs 73.0%) (see table below). 
The  most  commonly  reported  AE  of  headache  was  greater  in  placebo  subjects  within  the  bosentan 
subgroup (20%) than in placebo subjects within the non-bosentan subgroup (8%). 
In  Study  LVGY,  AEs  rates  where  similar  in  patients  on  tadalafil  irrespectively  on  the  use  of 
concomitant  bosentan.  All  placebo  patients  treated  with  CYP3A4  inhibitors  had  85%  of  patients  in 
concomitant treatment with tadalafil and CYP3A4 inhibitors had at least one AE. Events reported for 
at least 2 subjects in any tadalafil treatment group plus CYP3A4 inhibitors included nasal congestion, 
upper respiratory tract infection, anaemia, diarrhoea, headache, muscle spasms and nausea. 
In  study  LVGX,  AEs  rates  where  similar  in  patients  on  tadalafil  irrespectively  on  the  use  of 
concomitant  bosentan.  As  with  Study  LVGY,  in  both  bosentan  subgroups,  the  most  commonly 
reported  TEAE  was  headache.  All  patients  treated  concomitantly  with  tadalafil  and  CYP3A4 
inhibitors had at least one AE, with the most commonly reported AE being headache. 
 
Discontinuations due to AEs 
The rates of patients with AEs leading to discontinuation in study LVGY was numerically higher in 
the  placebo  group  than  in  the  tadalafil  10  mg,  20  mg  and  40  mg  groups.  Rates  of  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation  showed  a  trend  to  decrease  with  increased  tadalafil  doses.  In  study  LVGX,  rates  of 
AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  was  similar  in  the  20  mg  and  40  mg  tadalafil  groups.  Most  of  these 
AEs were related to the disease. 
 
Post-marketing experience 
Tadalafil was first approved in Australia on 15 October 2002 for the treatment of ED. Tadalafil has 
been  approved  for  the  treatment  of  ED  in  114  countries  and  is  marketed  in  approximately  105 
countries  as  of  15  October  2007.  As  of  30  September  2007,  approximately  12.9  million  patients 
worldwide have been exposed to tadalafil. According to the MAH, the numbers and types of reactions 
reported  for  the  time  period  of  16  October  2006  to  15  October  2007  were  consistent  with  the 
information provided in the 2 previous 6-month reporting periods (16 October 2005 to 15 April 2006; 
16 April 2006 to 15 October 2006).  
Although this is the first submission of a dossier for the indication of PAH, reports from regulatory 
authorities and spontaneously reported AEs in patients receiving tadalafil for PAH have been reported 
to Lilly as off-label use with commercially available product. A total of 7 cases have been identified 
within reporting PAH as the primary indication for use. The reported events included mania, physician 
prescribed overdose, QT prolongation, blood potassium abnormal, nausea, pain in the extremity, and 
burning sensation.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Body of safety data in the present application comprises the pivotal clinical trial LVGY (405 subjects; 
ITT population) and its extension (LVGX) in patients with PAH and also in the exposure and safety 
data from 2,157 patients enrolled in 67 clinical pharmacology studies.  
The safety population included in the pivotal clinical trial LVGY is limited, comprising 405 subjects 
in  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population  of  which  402  had  exposure  data  (placebo:  82,  tadalafil:  320). 
Interestingly, 82 patients with PAH have exposure data for more than 1 year (interim report LVGX).  
The proportion of patients in the pivotal trial LVGY with any treatment emergent adverse event was 
higher in the tadalafil groups (any dose) as compared to placebo and also in the tadalafil 40 mg group 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  respect  to  placebo.  Most  of  the  AEs  listed  in  the  LVGY  and  LVGX  studies  were  reported  in 
previously completed clinical studies for the ED indication. There was a dose-trend for AEs related to 
tadalafil from 41.5% for the 2.5 mg dose to 65.8% with the 40 mg dose. Most of these AEs were of 
mild to moderate intensity, and associated with PDE5 inhibition (i.e.: headache, back pain, dizziness, 
dyspepsia, flushing, myalgia, and nasal congestion). 
In terms of deaths per 100 person-years, the mortality rate during Study LVGY was 2.2 subjects per 
100 person-years for the combined tadalafil treatment group and 4.3 subjects per 100 person-years for 
placebo,  whereas  the  interim  mortality  rate  in  long-term  extension  Study  LVGX  was  4.6 per 
100 person-years  (combined  dose  group).  These  mortality  rates  are  lower  than  those  reported  in  the 
recent literature for patients with PAH. Median survival time has been estimated to be 3.6 to 5 years 
for  patients  with  PAH,  and  the  estimated/observed  1-year  survival  rates  have  been  quoted  as  about 
84% (Barst, et al. 2004; Thenappan, et al. 2007; Humbert, et al. 2006).  The incident cases within the 
French registry (Humbert, et al. 2006) had a greater incidence of WHO Functional Class III and IV 
(poorer prognosis) than the mainly prevalent cases with mainly Functional Class II and III included in 
Study  LVGY,  which  may  explain  the  lower  mortality  rates  in  study  LVGY  as  compared  with 
literature.  This finding appears to be supported by Study LVGX, since 10 of the 11 subjects who died 
were WHO Functional Class III and 1 was WHO Functional Class IV at baseline.  
SAEs rates, including SAEs of cardiovascular nature, were relatively low and similar in the placebo 
and sildenafil groups in the LVGY study. The incidence of bleeding events was similar in the placebo 
and tadalafil groups in study LVGY. With regard to the reported events of macular degeneration and 
cataract, most patients had concomitant predisposing risk factors for these ocular events. In addition, 
the rate of ocular events seen in study LVGX may be within that expected in the general population. A 
causal relationship between tadalafil and cases of cataracts cannot be confirmed nor ruled out with the 
information available. These issues have been addressed in the RMP and in the SPC.  
Concomitant use of bosentan seemed to be associated with a trend of increased AEs as compared to 
placebo in study LVGY. In patients already being treated with bosentan, the addition of tadalafil did 
not  increase  total  number  of  AEs  compared  with  bosentan  plus  placebo  (study  LVGY)  or  between 
patients receiving tadalafil plus bosentan or tadalafil alone in study LVGX. The addition of a CYP3A4 
inhibitor to placebo or tadalafil seems to be associated with an increase in the number of patients with 
AEs,  although  the  results  are  limited  due  to  the  small  proportion  of  patients  with  concomitant 
treatment  with  CYP3A4  inhibitors  (studies  LVGY  and  LVGX).  An  adequate  drug  interaction  study 
program has been already performed with tadalafil and the SPC reflects the information available from 
these studies.  
In  conclusion,  the  safety  profile  of  tadalafil  in  PAH  is  considered  acceptable  and  in  line  with  what 
would be expected from the ED indication. However, the MAH should submit PSURs every 6 months.  
1.4  Risk Management Plan 
An updated Risk Management Plan (RMP) was submitted in this variation application. The EU-RMP 
version 1.3 was agreed by the CHMP. A summary of the RMP is provided in the table below. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(Routine and Additional) 
Important Identified Risks For All Indications 
Priapism 
Milestone 
  Not applicable 
(NA); ongoing 
Activity 
  routine 
pharmacovigila
nce activities 
  targeted 
follow-up 
investigations 
  Ongoing 
activity on 
case-by-case 
basis 
Hypotension/ 
Increased 
Hypotensive 
Effect 
Activity 
  routine 
pharmacovigila
nce activities 
  targeted 
surveillance 
term 
Milestone 
  NA; ongoing 
  Ongoing 
activity on 
case-by-case 
basis 
30 
Proposed Risk Minimization Activities 
(Routine and Additional) 
Activity 
  Specific label text in the SPC under Special 
Warnings and Precautions (Section 4.4) includes 
“Patients who experience erections lasting 4 
hours or more should be instructed to seek 
immediate medical assistance.” 
  Priapism and Prolonged erections are listed in 
the SPC as undesirable effects under Section 
4.8.  
  The package leaflet, instructs patient to inform 
their doctor before taking ADCIRCA if they 
have “any deformation of your penis, or 
unwanted or persistent erections lasting more 
than 4 hours.” 
Activity 
  Specific label text in the SPC under Special 
Warnings and Precautions (Section 4.4) includes 
“As with other PDE5 inhibitors, tadalafil has 
systemic vasodilatory properties that may result 
in transient decreases in blood pressure. 
Physicians should carefully consider whether 
their patients with certain underlying conditions, 
such as severe left ventricular outflow 
obstruction, fluid depletion, autonomic 
hypotension or patients with resting 
hypotension, could be adversely affected by 
such vasodilatory effects.” and “In patients who 
are taking alpha1 blockers concomitant 
administration of ADCIRCA may lead to 
symptomatic hypotension in some patients. 
Therefore, the combination of tadalafil and 
doxazosin is not recommended.”  
  Also see SPC Section 4.5 (Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction) for Nitrates, Anti-hypertensives, and 
Alcohol.  
  Hypotension has been listed in the SPC as an 
undesirable effect under Section 4.8.  
  The package leaflet, instructs patient not to take 
ADCIRCA if they “are taking any form of 
nitrates such as amyl nitrite…” or “have low 
blood pressure.” 
  The package leaflet under Before you take 
ADCIRCA (Section 2), instructs patients to tell 
the doctor if they are taking, “nitrates, alpha-
blockers, or tablets for erectile dysfunction 
(PDE5 inhibitors)” 
  The package leaflet under Possible Side Effects  
(Section 4) includes, “low blood pressure”  
 
Activity 
  routine 
Important Potential Risks 
Important Potential Risks Identified for All Indications 
Non-Arteritic 
Anterior 
Ischemic 
Optic 
Neuropathy 
(NAION) 
Milestone 
  NA; ongoing 
  Ongoing 
activity on 
case-by-case 
basis 
pharmacovigila
nce activities 
  targeted 
follow-up 
investigations 
  Observational 
case crossover 
study 
  Planned study; 
ongoing 
activity 
Sudden 
Hearing Loss 
Activity 
  routine 
pharmacovigila
nce activities 
  targeted 
follow-up 
investigations 
Milestone 
  NA; ongoing 
  Ongoing 
activity on 
case-by-case 
basis 
Activity 
  Specific label text in the SPC under 
Contraindications (Section 4.3) includes 
“ADCIRCA is contraindicated in patients who 
have loss of vision in one eye because of non-
arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy 
(NAION), regardless of whether this episode 
was in connection or not with previous PDE5 
inhibitor exposure.” 
  Specific label text in the SPC under Special 
Warnings and Precautions (Section 4.4) includes 
“Visual defects and cases of NAION have been 
reported in connection with the intake of 
ADCIRCA and other PDE5 inhibitors. The 
patient should be advised that in case of sudden 
visual defect, to consult a physician 
immediately. Patients with known hereditary 
degenerative retinal disorders, including retinitis 
pigmentosa, were not included in the clinical 
trials, and use in these patients is not 
recommended.”  
  NAION, and sudden vision loss has been listed 
in the SPC as an undesirable effect under 
Section 4.8.  
  The package leaflet, instructs patient not to take 
ADCIRCA if they “have ever had loss of vision 
– a condition described as “stroke of the eye” 
(non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy 
- NAION).” 
  The package leaflet under Possible Side Effects 
(Section 4) includes, “Partial, sudden, temporary 
or permanent decrease or loss of vision in one or 
both eyes.” 
Activity 
  Sudden deafness has been listed in the SPC as 
an undesirable effect under Section 4.8.   
  The package leaflet under Possible Side Effects 
(Section 4) includes “Sudden decrease or loss of 
hearing has also been reported.” 
Activity 
  routine 
Important Potential Risks Identified for Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension 
Increased 
uterine 
bleeding 
(menorrhagia/
vaginal 
hemorrhage) 
Milestone 
  NA; ongoing 
  Ongoing 
activity on 
case-by-case 
basis 
pharmacovigila
nce activities 
  targeted 
surveillance 
term 
Activity 
  Increased uterine bleeding has been listed in the 
SPC as an undesirable effect under Section 4.8. 
A special footnote has been entered under the 
the Undesirable Effects table in the SPC to 
further explain that the term Increased uterine 
bleeding refers to reports of abnormal /excessive 
menstrual bleeding conditions such as 
menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, menometrorrhagia, 
or vaginal haemorrhage.  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
1.5.  Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
According  to  Article  3  of  the  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No  847/2000,  for  the  purposes  of  the 
implementation  of  Article  8,  “Similar  active  substance”  means  an  identical  active  substance,  or  an 
active substance with the same principal molecular structural features (active moiety) and which acts 
via  the  same  mechanism.  Thus  the  similarity  assessment  takes  into  account  molecular  structural 
features, mechanism of action and therapeutic indication.  
Having  considered  the  arguments  presented  by  the  MAH  of  Adcirca  on  17 October  2008,  it  is 
concluded that the mechanism of action of tadalafil is considered to be similar to that of sildenafil, and 
distinct from that described for bosentan, sitaxentan, iloprost and ambrisentan. However, tadalafil does 
not share the same principal molecular structural features as sildenafil, bosentan, sitaxentan, iloprost 
and ambrisentan and the differences in molecular structure are not only minor.  
As  defined  in  Article  3  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No  847/2000,  Adcirca  is  not  considered 
similar to the authorised orphan medicinal products Revatio, Tracleer, Thelin, Ventavis and Volibris. 
Therefore, with reference to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000, the existence of any market 
exclusivity for Revatio, Tracleer, Thelin, Ventavis and Volibris in the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension, does not prevent the granting of the change of indication of Adcirca. 
1.6.  Benefit/Risk Assessment and Recommendation 
Pulmonary  Arterial  Hypertension  (PAH)  is  a  rare  condition  that  is  characterised  by  vascular 
proliferation and remodelling of the small pulmonary arteries. PAH leads to an increase in pulmonary 
artery  pressure  and  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  and  eventually  right  ventricular  heart  failure  and 
death.  
Currently  conventional  treatment  for  patients  with  primary  and  secondary  PAH  includes  calcium-
channel  blockers,  anticoagulants,  diuretics  and  oxygen.  In  addition,  other  medicinal  products  are 
currently authorised in the European Union (EU) for the treatment of PAH, such as oral endothelin-1 
receptor  antagonists,  intravenous,  inhaled  or  subcutaneous  prostacyclin  and  a  phosphodiesterase-5 
inhibitor. As a last alternative, a lung or heart/lung transplant may be offered to the patient. 
Benefits 
The pivotal study has shown a statistically significant effect of tadalafil 40 mg versus placebo on the 
6-Minute Walk test at week 16, the main endpoint defined in this application, which has already been 
used for the evaluation of PAH products until now. Additional comparisons at week 12 also showed a 
significant  improvement  in  6MWD  with  respect  to  placebo  for  40  mg.  The  magnitude  of  the  effect 
observed  in  the  subgroup  of  naïve  patients  without  concomitant  bosentan  (tadalafil  40  mg  versus 
“pure”-placebo  patients:  44  m  improvement)  seems  to  be  similar  to  that  observed  with  other 
authorised  products  for  PAH  versus  placebo.  However  given  the  heterogenicity  of  the  population 
included in the pivotal trial (different PAH aetiologies and functional classes, naïve/pretreated patients 
with bosentan) the results on 6MWD in the overall study population (26 m median improvement) were 
of  a  small  magnitude  and  difficult  to  interpret.  The  MAH  provided  the  percentage  of  patients 
improving more than 10 percent in the 6MW test at week 16 compared to baseline in the absence of 
clinical deterioration as defined by the MAH (ITT analysis, LOCF) and/or the percent of patients with 
deterioration in the 6MW test by at least 15% with respect to baseline confirmed by two consecutive 
6-MWT, performed on different days. This analysis confirmed the superiority of tadalafil 40 mg over 
placebo in the study population not receiving concomitant bosentan.  
The results on the 6MW test and ancillary responders’ analyses were inconclusive for the subgroup of 
patients pretreated with bosentan, probably due to an identified pharmacokinetic interaction between 
tadalafil  and  bosentan,  leading  to  a  lower  tadalafil  systemic  exposure,  and  therefore,  this  issue  was 
acknowledged  in  the  SPC.  With  respect  to  the  aetiology,  the  subgroup  analysis  shows  a  significant 
effect of tadalafil on 6MWD both in patients with idiopathic and connective-tissue disease pulmonary 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypertension like in other. Unlike other PAH products tadalafil showed a greater effect on connective-
tissue disease than on idiopathic PAH. Regarding functional classes, only a modest effect of tadalafil 
on 6MWD was observed on the patients classified as functional classes I and II what is in line with 
previous findings for other PAH products.  
Risks 
There  are  no  major  non-clinical  safety  issues  that  could  preclude  the  marketing  authorization  of 
tadalafil for the treatment of PAH. In relation to clinical safety the AEs reported were similar to those 
described  with  sildenafil,  the  other  PDE5  inhibitor  authorised  for  this  indication.  Overall  the  safety 
profile  of  tadalafil  is  considered  acceptable  and  in  line  with  what  would  be  expected  from  the  ED 
indication.  
Balance and Recommendation 
The benefit risk assessment for Adcirca in the proposed indication is considered positive.  
Changes to the Product Information 
The following indication is agreed: 
“ADCIRCA  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  (PAH)  classified  as 
WHO functional class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1). 
Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH related to collagen vascular disease.” 
In order to allow more suitable pack sizes for the use in the PAH indication, the pack sizes of Adcirca 
have been consequently changed from 2, 4, 8 and 12 tablets to 28 and 56 tablets. 
As a consequence, changes were made to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.8, 4.9, 5.1, 5.2 and 6.5 
of the SPC, Annex IIIA and the Package Leaflet.  
In  addition,  the  conditions  or  restrictions  regarding  supply  and  use  imposed  on  the  marketing 
authorisation  holder  in  Annex  II  have  been  changed  to  “Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted 
medical prescription”. A statement to that effect has also been added to section 4.2 of the SPC where it 
is  indicated  that  treatment  should  only be  initiated  and  monitored  by  a physician  experienced  in  the 
treatment of PAH. 
User consultation 
User  testing  for  the  Package  Leaflet  proposed  in  the  PAH  indication  was  included  in  the  variation 
application. It was conducted in two rounds of testing in 2x10 subjects, plus a focus test in a further 10 
subjects (total 30 subjects) to meet the pass criteria for readability testing for all 16 questions posed 
(correct  answer  by  at  least  90%  of  the  subject;  “MHRA  Guidance  on  the  User  Testing  of  Package 
Leaflets”,  June  2005,  updated  March  2007;  “Draft  EC  guideline  on  the  readability  of  the  Label  and 
Package Leaflet of Medicinal Products for Human Use, September 2006).  
In round 1, information for 15 of 16 questions was found by at least 90% of the subjects. Question 9 
was answered by only 80% of the subjects and was rephrased for the Round 2.  
In round 2, the rephrased question 9 (“If you already have problems with your blood pressure, what 
should you do before taking these tablets?”) had a positive impact on subject’s understanding as 19/20 
(95%) subjects gave the model answer for the desired subsection. 
The  package  leaflet  for  Adcirca  was  therefore  considered  to  meet  the  pass  criteria  for  readability 
testing for all 16 questions posed. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.  CONCLUSION 
On 22 October 2009 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II,  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
