ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ADCIRCA 20 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg tadalafil. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 233 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
Orange and almond shaped film-coated tablets of 12.09 mm x 7.37 mm, marked "4467" on one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional class II and III, to 
improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1). 
Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH related to collagen vascular disease. 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of paediatric patients aged 2 years and above with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
classified as WHO functional class II and III. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should only be initiated and monitored by a physician experienced in the treatment of PAH. 
Posology 
Adults 
The recommended dose is 40 mg (two x 20 mg film-coated tablets) taken once daily. 
Paediatric population (age 2 years to 17 years) 
The recommended once daily doses based on age and weight categories in paediatric patients are 
shown below.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric patient’s age and/or weight 
Age ≥ 2 years old 
          Body weight ≥ 40 kg 
          Body weight < 40 kg 
Recommended daily dose and dosing regimen 
40 mg (two 20 mg tablets) once daily 
20 mg (one 20 mg tablet or 10 mL of oral suspension 
(OS), 2 mg/mL tadalafil*) once daily 
* Oral suspension is available for administration to paediatric patients who require 20 mg and are not 
able to swallow tablets.   
For patients < 2 years old no PK or efficacy data are available from clinical trials. The most 
appropriate dose of ADCIRCA in children aged between 6 months to < 2 years has not been 
established. Therefore, ADCIRCA is not recommended in this age subset. 
Delayed dose, missed dose, or vomiting 
If there is a delay in the administration of ADCIRCA, but yet within the same day, the dose should be 
taken with no changes to the subsequent dose schedules. Patients should not take an extra dose if a 
dose is missed.  
Patients should not take an extra dose if vomiting occurs. 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
Dose adjustments are not required in elderly patients. 
Renal impairment 
Adults and paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing at least 40 kg) 
In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment a starting dose of 20 mg once per day is 
recommended. The dose may be increased to 40 mg once per day, based on individual efficacy and 
tolerability. In patients with severe renal impairment the use of tadalafil is not recommended (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing less than 40 kg) 
In patients < 40 kg and with mild to moderate renal impairment a starting dose of 10 mg once per day 
is recommended. The dose may be increased to 20 mg once per day, based on individual efficacy and 
tolerability. In patients with severe renal impairment the use of tadalafil is not recommended (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Adults and paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing at least 40 kg)  
Due to limited clinical experience in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh 
Class A and B), a starting dose of 20 mg once per day may be considered.  
Paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing less than 40 kg)  
In patients < 40 kg and with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, a starting dose of 10 mg once per 
day may be considered. 
For patients of all ages, if tadalafil is prescribed, a careful individual benefit/risk assessment should be 
undertaken by the prescribing physician. Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) 
have not been studied and therefore dosing of tadalafil is not recommended (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population (age < 2 years) 
Dosing and efficacy of ADCIRCA has not been established for children aged < 2 years. Currently 
available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
ADCIRCA is for oral use.  
The film-coated tablets should be swallowed whole with water, with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Acute myocardial infarction within the last 90 days. 
Severe hypotension (< 90/50 mm Hg). 
In clinical trials, tadalafil was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates. This is thought to 
result from the combined effects of nitrates and tadalafil on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway. 
Therefore, administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate is 
contraindicated (see section 4.5). 
The co-administration of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors, including tadalafil, with 
guanylate cyclase stimulators, such as riociguat, is contraindicated as it may potentially lead to 
symptomatic hypotension (see section 4.5). 
Patients who have loss of vision in one eye because of non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy 
(NAION), regardless of whether this episode was in connection or not with previous PDE5 inhibitor 
exposure (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Cardiovascular diseases 
The following groups of patients with cardiovascular disease were not included in PAH clinical trials: 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Patients with clinically significant aortic and mitral valve disease 
Patients with pericardial constriction 
Patients with restrictive or congestive cardiomyopathy 
Patients with significant left ventricular dysfunction 
Patients with life-threatening arrhythmias 
Patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease 
Patients with uncontrolled hypertension. 
Since there are no clinical data on the safety of tadalafil in these patients, the use of tadalafil is not 
recommended.  
Pulmonary vasodilators may significantly worsen the cardiovascular status of patients with pulmonary 
veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). Since there are no clinical data on administration of tadalafil to 
patients with veno-occlusive disease, administration of tadalafil to such patients is not recommended. 
Should signs of pulmonary oedema occur when tadalafil is administered, the possibility of associated 
PVOD should be considered.  
Tadalafil has systemic vasodilatory properties that may result in transient decreases in blood pressure. 
Physicians should carefully consider whether their patients with certain underlying conditions, such as 
severe left ventricular outflow obstruction, fluid depletion, autonomic hypotension or patients with 
resting hypotension, could be adversely affected by such vasodilatory effects. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients who are taking alpha1 blockers concomitant administration of tadalafil may lead to 
symptomatic hypotension in some patients (see section 4.5). Therefore, the combination of tadalafil 
and doxazosin is not recommended. 
Vision 
Visual defects, including Central Serous Chorioretinopathy (CSCR), and cases of NAION have been 
reported in connection with the intake of tadalafil and other PDE5 inhibitors. Most cases of CSCR 
resolved spontaneously after stopping tadalafil. Regarding NAION, analyses of observational data 
suggest an increased risk of acute NAION in men with erectile dysfunction following exposure to 
tadalafil or other PDE5 inhibitors. As this may be relevant for all patients exposed to tadalafil, the 
patient should be advised that in case of sudden visual defect, visual acuity impairment and/or visual 
distortion, he should stop taking ADCIRCA and consult a physician immediately (see section 4.3). 
Patients with known hereditary degenerative retinal disorders, including retinitis pigmentosa, were not 
included in the clinical trials, and use in these patients is not recommended.  
Decreased or sudden hearing loss 
Cases of sudden hearing loss have been reported after the use of tadalafil. Although other risk factors 
were present in some cases (such as age, diabetes, hypertension, previous hearing loss history and 
associated connective tissue diseases) patients should be advised to seek prompt medical attention in 
the event of sudden decrease or loss of hearing. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Due to increased tadalafil exposure (AUC), limited clinical experience, and the lack of ability to 
influence clearance by dialysis, tadalafil is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) have not been studied and, therefore, 
dosing of tadalafil is not recommended. 
Priapism and anatomical deformation of the penis 
Priapism has been reported in men treated with PDE5 inhibitors. Patients who experience erections 
lasting 4 hours or more should be instructed to seek immediate medical assistance. If priapism is not 
treated immediately, penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency may result. 
Tadalafil should be used with caution in patients with anatomical deformation of the penis (such as 
angulation, cavernosal fibrosis or Peyronie's disease), or in patients who have conditions which may 
predispose them to priapism (such as sickle cell anaemia, multiple myeloma or leukaemia). 
Use with CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors 
For patients chronically taking potent inducers of CYP3A4, such as rifampicin, the use of tadalafil is 
not recommended (see section 4.5). 
For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the 
use of tadalafil is not recommended (see section 4.5).  
Treatments for erectile dysfunction 
The safety and efficacy of combinations of tadalafil and other PDE5 inhibitors or other treatments for 
erectile dysfunction have not been studied. Patients should be informed not to take ADCIRCA with 
these medicinal products. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prostacyclin and its analogues 
The efficacy and safety of tadalafil co-administered with prostacyclin or its analogues has not been 
studied in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, caution is recommended in case of co-administration. 
Bosentan 
The efficacy of tadalafil in patients already on bosentan therapy has not been conclusively 
demonstrated (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
Lactose 
ADCIRCA contains lactose monohydrate. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on tadalafil 
Cytochrome P450 inhibitors 
Azole antifungals (e.g. ketoconazole) 
Ketoconazole (200 mg daily), increased tadalafil (10 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold and Cmax 
by 15 %, relative to the AUC and Cmax values for tadalafil alone. Ketoconazole (400 mg daily) 
increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 4-fold and Cmax by 22 %. 
Protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir) 
Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), which is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, 
increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold with no change in Cmax. Ritonavir 
(500 mg or 600 mg twice daily) increased tadalafil (20 mg) single-dose exposure (AUC) by 32 % and 
decreased Cmax by 30 %.  
Cytochrome P450 inducers 
Endothelin-1 receptor antagonists (e.g. bosentan) 
Bosentan (125 mg twice daily), a substrate of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 and a moderate inducer of 
CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and possibly CYP2C19, reduced tadalafil (40 mg once per day) systemic exposure 
by 42 % and Cmax by 27 % following multiple dose co-administration. The efficacy of tadalafil in 
patients already on bosentan therapy has not been conclusively demonstrated (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). Tadalafil did not affect the exposure (AUC and Cmax) of bosentan or its metabolites. 
The safety and efficacy of combinations of tadalafil and other endothelin-1 receptor antagonists have 
not been studied. 
Antimycobacterials (e.g. rifampicin) 
A CYP3A4 inducer, rifampicin (600 mg daily), reduced tadalafil AUC by 88 % and Cmax by 46 %, 
relative to the AUC and Cmax values for tadalafil alone (10 mg). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of tadalafil on other medicinal products 
Nitrates 
In clinical trials, tadalafil (5, 10 and 20 mg) was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates. 
This interaction lasted for more than 24 hours and was no longer detectable when 48 hours had 
elapsed after the last tadalafil dose. Therefore, administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any 
form of organic nitrate is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Anti-hypertensives (including Calcium channel blockers) 
The co-administration of doxazosin (4 and 8 mg daily) and tadalafil (5 mg daily dose and 20 mg as a 
single dose) increases the blood pressure-lowering effect of this alpha-blocker in a significant manner. 
This  effect  lasts  at  least  twelve  hours  and  may  be  symptomatic,  including  syncope.  Therefore,  this 
combination is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
In interaction studies performed in a limited number of healthy volunteers, these effects were not 
reported with alfuzosin or tamsulosin. 
In clinical pharmacology studies, the potential for tadalafil (10 and 20 mg) to augment the hypotensive 
effects of antihypertensive medicinal products was examined. Major classes of antihypertensive 
medicinal products were studied either as monotherapy or as part of combination therapy. In patients 
taking multiple antihypertensive medicinal products whose hypertension was not well controlled, 
greater reductions in blood pressure were observed compared to patients whose blood pressure was 
well controlled, where the reduction was minimal and similar to that in healthy subjects. In patients 
receiving concomitant antihypertensive medicinal products, tadalafil 20 mg may induce a blood 
pressure decrease, which (with the exception of doxazosin -see above) is, in general, minor and not 
likely to be clinically relevant. 
Riociguat 
Preclinical studies showed an additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors 
were combined with riociguat.  In clinical trials, riociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive 
effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in 
the population studied. Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).   
CYP1A2 substrates (e.g. theophylline) 
When tadalafil 10 mg was administered with theophylline (a non-selective phosphodiesterase 
inhibitor) there was no pharmacokinetic interaction. The only pharmacodynamic effect was a small 
(3.5 beats per minutes [bpm]) increase in heart rate. 
CYP2C9 substrates (e.g.R-warfarin) 
Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) had no clinically significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or 
R-warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate), nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by 
warfarin.  
Acetylsalicylic acid 
Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic 
acid.  
P-glycoprotein substrates (e.g. digoxin) 
Tadalafil (40 mg once per day) had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. 
Oral contraceptive 
At steady-state, tadalafil (40 mg once per day) increased ethinylestradiol exposure (AUC) by 26 % and 
Cmax by 70 % relative to oral contraceptive administered with placebo.  There was no statistically 
significant effect of tadalafil on levonorgestrel which suggests the effect of ethinylestradiol is due to 
inhibition of intestinal sulphation by tadalafil. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terbutaline 
A similar increase in AUC and Cmax seen with ethinylestradiol may be expected with oral 
administration of terbutaline, probably due to inhibition of intestinal sulphation by tadalafil. The 
clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain. 
Alcohol 
Alcohol concentrations were not affected by co-administration with tadalafil (10 mg or 20 mg). In 
addition, no changes in tadalafil concentrations were seen after co-administration with alcohol. 
Tadalafil (20 mg) did not augment the mean blood pressure decrease produced by alcohol (0.7 g/kg or 
approximately 180 mL of 40 % alcohol [vodka] in an 80 kg male), but in some subjects, postural 
dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were observed. The effect of alcohol on cognitive function was 
not augmented by tadalafil (10 mg). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Based  upon  population  PK  analysis,  the  estimates  of  apparent  clearance  (CL/F)  and  the  effect  of 
bosentan  on  CL/F  in  paediatric  patients  are  similar  to  those  in  adult  patients  with  PAH.  No  dose 
adjustment is considered necessary for tadalafil with bosentan use. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data from the use of tadalafil in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate 
direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition 
or postnatal development (see section 5.3). As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the 
use of tadalafil during pregnancy.  
Breast-feeding 
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of tadalafil in milk. 
A risk to the breastfed child cannot be excluded. ADCIRCA should not be used during breast feeding. 
Fertility 
Effects were seen in dogs that might indicate impairment of fertility. Two subsequent clinical trials 
suggest that this effect is unlikely in humans, although a decrease in sperm concentration was seen in 
some men (see sections 5.1 and 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
ADCIRCA has negligible influence on the ability to drive or use machines. Although the frequency of 
reports of dizziness in placebo and tadalafil arms in clinical trials was similar, patients should be 
aware of how they react to ADCIRCA, before driving or operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions, occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients in the tadalafil 40 mg 
treatment arm, were headache, nausea, back pain, dyspepsia, flushing, myalgia, nasopharingitis and 
pain in extremity. The adverse reactions reported were transient, and generally mild or moderate. 
Adverse reaction data are limited in patients over 75 years of age. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pivotal placebo-controlled study of ADCIRCA for the treatment of PAH, a total of 323 patients 
were treated with ADCIRCA at doses ranging from 2.5 mg to 40 mg once daily and 82 patients were 
treated with placebo. The duration of treatment was 16 weeks. The overall frequency of 
discontinuation due to adverse events was low (ADCIRCA 11 %, placebo 16 %). Three hundred and 
fifty-seven (357) patients who completed the pivotal study entered a long-term extension study. Doses 
studied were 20 mg and 40 mg once daily.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below lists the adverse reactions reported during the placebo-controlled clinical trial in 
patients with PAH treated with ADCIRCA. Also included in the table are some adverse reactions 
which have been reported in clinical trials and/or post-marketing with tadalafil in the treatment of 
male erectile dysfunction. These events have either been assigned a frequency of “Not known,” as the 
frequency in PAH patients cannot be estimated from the available data or assigned a frequency based 
on the clinical trial data from the pivotal placebo-controlled study of ADCIRCA. 
Frequency estimate: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Very common  
Common  
Uncommon  
Rare  
Not known1  
System Organ 
Class 
Immune system 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache6 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions5 
Syncope, 
Migraine5 
Seizures5, 
Transient 
amnesia5 
Eye disorders 
Blurred vision 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
 Palpitations2, 5 
Tinnitus 
Sudden cardiac 
death2, 5, 
Tachycardia2, 5 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
Hypertension 
Epistaxis 
Nasopharyngitis 
(including nasal 
congestion, 
sinus congestion 
and rhinitis) 
9 
Angioedema 
Stroke2 (including 
haemorrhagic 
events) 
Non-arteritic 
anterior ischemic 
optic neuropathy 
(NAION), Retinal 
vascular occlusion, 
Visual field defect,  
Central serous 
chorioretinopathy 
Sudden hearing 
loss 
Unstable angina 
pectoris, 
Ventricular 
arrhythmia, 
Myocardial 
Infarction2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal
, connective 
tissue and bone 
disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders  
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Vomiting, 
Gastroesophage
al reflux 
Nausea, 
Dyspepsia 
(including 
abdominal 
pain/discomfort3
) 
Rash 
Urticaria5, 
Hyperhydrosis 
(sweating)5 
Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome, 
Exfoliative 
dermatitis 
Myalgia,  
Back pain 
Pain in 
extremity 
(including limb 
discomfort) 
Haematuria 
Priapism5, Penile 
haemorrhage, 
Haematospermia 
Prolonged 
erections 
Increased 
uterine 
bleeding4 
Facial oedema, 
Chest pain2 
(1) Events not reported in registration trials and cannot be estimated from the available data.  The 
adverse reactions have been included in the table as a result of post-marketing or clinical trial data 
from the use of tadalafil in the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
(2) Most of the patients in whom these events have been reported had pre-existing cardiovascular risk 
factors. 
(3) Actual MedDRA terms included are abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, 
abdominal pain upper, and stomach discomfort. 
(4) Clinical non-MedDRA term to include reports of abnormal/excessive menstrual bleeding conditions 
such as menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, menometrorrhagia, or vaginal haemorrhage. 
(5) The adverse reactions have been included in the table as a result of post-marketing or clinical trial 
data from the use of tadalafil in the treatment of erectile dysfunction; and in addition, the frequency 
estimates are based on only 1 or 2 patients experiencing the adverse reaction in the pivotal placebo-
controlled study of ADCIRCA.  
(6) Headache was the most commonly reported adverse reaction. Headache may occur at the beginning 
of therapy; and decreases over time even if treatment is continued.   
Paediatric population 
A total of 51 paediatric patients aged from 2.5 to 17 years with PAH were treated with tadalafil in 
clinical trials (H6D-MC-LVHV, H6D-MC-LVIG). A total of 391 paediatric patients with PAH, from 
new-born to < 18 years, were treated with tadalafil in an observational post-marketing study (H6D-JE-
TD01). Following tadalafil administration, the frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in 
children and adolescents were similar to that seen for adults. Due to differences in study design, 
sample size, gender, age range, and doses, safety findings from these trials are detailed separately 
below.  
Placebo-controlled clinical trial in paediatric patients (H6D-MC-LVHV) 
In a randomised, placebo-controlled study in 35 patients aged 6.2 to 17.9 years (median age of 
14.2 years) with PAH, a total of 17 patients were treated once daily with ADCIRCA 20 mg 
(middle-weight cohort, ≥ 25 kg to < 40 kg) or 40 mg (heavy-weight cohort, ≥ 40 kg), and 18 patients 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were treated with placebo, for 24 weeks. The most common AEs, occurring in ≥ 2 patients treated with 
tadalafil, were headache (29.4 %), upper respiratory tract infection and influenza (17.6 % each), and 
arthralgia and epistaxis (11.8 % each). No deaths or SAEs were reported. Of the 35 paediatric patients 
treated in the short-term, placebo-controlled study, 32 entered the 24 month long-term open-label 
extension and 26 patients completed the follow-up. No new safety signals were observed. 
Uncontrolled pharmacokinetic study in paediatric patients (H6D-MC-LVIG)   
In a paediatric multiple ascending dose study, 19 patients with a median age of 10.9 years [range 
2.5 - 17 years] received once daily ADCIRCA, for an open-label treatment duration of 10 weeks 
(Period 1) and for up to a further 24 months in an extension (Period 2). SAEs were reported in 
8 patients (42.1 %). These were pulmonary hypertension (21.0 %), viral infection (10.5 %), and 
cardiac failure, gastritis, pyrexia, type 1 diabetes mellitus, febrile convulsion, presyncope, seizure, and 
ovarian cyst (5.3 % each). No patient was discontinued due to AEs. TEAEs were reported in 
18 patients (94.7 %) and the most frequent TEAEs (occurring in ≥ 5 patients) were headache, pyrexia, 
viral upper respiratory tract infection, and vomiting.  Two deaths were reported. 
Post-marketing study in paediatric patients (H6D-JE-TD01) 
Safety data were collected during an observational post-marketing study in Japan including 
391 paediatric PAH patients (2 years maximum observational period). The mean age of patients in the 
study was 5.7 ± 5.3 years, including 79 patients aged < 1 year, 41 aged 1 to < 2 years, 122 aged 2 to 
6 years, 110 aged 7 to 14 years, and 39 aged 15 to 17 years. AEs were reported in 123 patients 
(31.5 %). The incidences of AEs (≥ 5 patients) were pulmonary hypertension (3.6 %); headache 
(2.8 %); heart failure and decreased platelet count (2.0 % each); epistaxis and upper respiratory tract 
infection (1.8 % each); bronchitis, diarrhoea, and abnormal hepatic function (1.5 % each); and 
gastroenteritis, protein losing gastroenteropathy, and increased aspartate aminotransferase (1.3 % 
each). The incidence of SAEs was 12.0 % (≥ 3 patients), including pulmonary hypertension (3.6 %), 
heart failure (1.5 %), and pneumonia (0.8 %). Sixteen deaths (4.1 %) were reported; none were related 
to tadalafil. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single doses of up to 500 mg have been given to healthy subjects, and multiple daily doses up to 
100 mg have been given to patients with erectile dysfunction. Adverse reactions were similar to those 
seen at lower doses.  
In cases of overdose, standard supportive measures should be adopted as required. Haemodialysis 
contributes negligibly to tadalafil elimination. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Urologicals, drugs used in erectile dysfunction, ATC code: G04BE08. 
Mechanism of action 
Tadalafil is a potent and selective inhibitor of PDE5, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of 
cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Pulmonary arterial hypertension is associated with 
impaired release of nitric oxide by the vascular endothelium and consequent reduction of cGMP 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrations within the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle. PDE5 is the predominant 
phosphodiesterase in the pulmonary vasculature. Inhibition of PDE5 by tadalafil increases the 
concentrations of cGMP resulting in relaxation of the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle cell and 
vasodilation of the pulmonary vascular bed. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Studies in vitro have shown that tadalafil is a selective inhibitor of PDE5. PDE5 is an enzyme found in 
corpus cavernosum smooth muscle, vascular and visceral smooth muscle, skeletal muscle, platelets, 
kidney, lung, and cerebellum. The effect of tadalafil is more potent on PDE5 than on other 
phosphodiesterases. Tadalafil is > 10 000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE1, PDE2, and 
PDE4, enzymes which are found in the heart, brain, blood vessels, liver, and other organs. Tadalafil is 
> 10 000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE3, an enzyme found in the heart and blood vessels. 
This selectivity for PDE5 over PDE3 is important because PDE3 is an enzyme involved in cardiac 
contractility. Additionally, tadalafil is approximately 700-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE6, 
an enzyme which is found in the retina and is responsible for phototransduction. Tadalafil is also 
> 10 000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE7 through PDE10.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in adults 
A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted in 405 patients with pulmonary 
arterial hypertension. Allowed background therapy included bosentan (stable maintenance dose up to 
125 mg twice daily) and chronic anticoagulation, digoxin, diuretics and oxygen. More than half 
(53.3 %) of the patients in the study were receiving concomitant bosentan therapy. 
Patients were randomised to one of five treatment groups (tadalafil 2.5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg, or 
placebo). Patients were at least 12 years of age and had a diagnosis of PAH that was idiopathic, related 
to collagen disease, related to anorexigen use, related to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection, associated with an atrial-septal defect, or associated with surgical repair of at least 1 year in 
duration of a congenital systemic-to-pulmonary shunt (for example, ventricular septal defect, patent 
ductus arteriosus). The mean age of all patients was 54 years (range 14 to 90 years) with the majority 
of patients being Caucasian (80.5 %) and female (78.3 %). Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
aetiologies were predominantly idiopathic PAH (61.0 %) and related to collagen vascular disease 
(23.5 %). The majority of patients had a World Health Organization (WHO) Functional Class III 
(65.2 %) or II (32.1 %). The mean baseline 6-minute-walk-distance (6MWD) was 343.6 meters. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline at week 16 in 6-minute walk distance 
(6MWD). Only tadalafil 40 mg achieved the protocol defined level of significance with a placebo-
adjusted median increase in 6MWD of 26 metres (p = 0.0004; 95 % CI: 9.5, 44.0; Pre-specified 
Hodges-Lehman method) (mean 33 metres, 95 % CI: 15.2, 50.3). The improvement in walk distance 
was apparent from 8 weeks of treatment. Significant improvement (p < 0.01) in the 6MWD was 
demonstrated at week 12 when the patients were asked to delay taking study medicinal product in 
order to reflect trough active substance concentration. Results were generally consistent in subgroups 
according to age, gender, PAH aetiology and baseline WHO functional class and 6MWD. The 
placebo-adjusted median increase in 6MWD was 17 metres (p = 0.09; 95 % CI: : -7.1, 43.0; Pre-
specified Hodges-Lehman method) (mean 23 metres, 95 % CI; -2.4, 47.8) in those patients who 
received tadalafil 40 mg in addition to their concomitant bosentan (n = 39), and was 39 metres 
(p < 0.01, 95 % CI:13.0, 66.0; Pre-specified Hodges-Lehman method) (mean 44 metres, 95 % CI: 
19.7, 69.0) in those patients who received tadalafil 40 mg alone (n = 37). 
The proportion of patients with improvement in WHO functional class by week 16 was similar in the 
tadalafil 40 mg and placebo groups (23 % vs. 21 %).  The incidence of clinical worsening by week 16 
in patients treated with tadalafil 40 mg (5 %; 4 of 79 patients) was less than placebo (16 %; 13 of 82 
patients). Changes in the Borg dyspnoea score were small and non-significant with both placebo and 
tadalafil 40 mg. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, improvements compared to placebo were observed with tadalafil 40 mg in the physical 
functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality and social functioning domains of the 
SF 36. No improvements were observed in the role emotional and mental health domains of the SF-36. 
Improvements compared to placebo were observed with tadalafil 40 mg in the EuroQol (EQ 5D) US 
and UK index scores comprising mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, 
anxiety/depression components, and in the visual analogue scale (VAS). 
Cardiopulmonary haemodynamics was performed in 93 patients. Tadalafil 40 mg increased cardiac 
output (0.6 L/min) and reduced pulmonary artery pressures (-4.3 mmHg) and pulmonary vascular 
resistance (-209 dyn.s/cm5) compared to baseline (p < 0.05). However, post hoc analyses demonstrated 
that changes from baseline in cardiopulmonary haemodynamic parameters for the tadalafil 40 mg 
treatment group were not significantly different compared to placebo. 
Long-term treatment 
357 patients from the placebo-controlled study entered a long-term extension study. Of these, 
311 patients had been treated with tadalafil for at least 6 months and 293 for 1 year (median exposure 
365 days; range 2 days to 415 days). For those patients for which there are data, the survival rate at 
1 year is 96.4 %. Additionally, 6 minute walk distance and WHO functional class status appeared to be 
stable in those treated with tadalafil for 1 year. 
Tadalafil 20 mg administered to healthy subjects produced no significant difference compared to 
placebo in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mean maximal decrease of 1.6/0.8 mm Hg, 
respectively), in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mean maximal decrease of 
0.2/4.6 mm Hg, respectively), and no significant change in heart rate.  
In a study to assess the effects of tadalafil on vision, no impairment of colour discrimination (blue/green) 
was detected using the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue test. This finding is consistent with the low affinity 
of tadalafil for PDE6 compared to PDE5. Across all clinical trials, reports of changes in colour vision 
were rare (< 0.1 %). 
Three trials were conducted in men to assess the potential effect on spermatogenesis of tadalafil 10 mg 
(one 6-month study) and 20 mg (one 6-month and one 9-month study) administered daily. In two of 
these trials decreases were observed in sperm count and concentration related to tadalafil treatment of 
unlikely clinical relevance. These effects were not associated with changes in other parameters such as 
motility, morphology and FSH. 
Paediatric population 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in children 
A total of 35 paediatric patients with PAH aged 6 to <18 years were treated in a 2-period add-on (in 
addition to patient’s current endothelin receptor antagonist) study (H6D-MC-LVHV) to evaluate 
tadalafil efficacy, safety, and PK. In the 6-month double-blind period (Period 1), 17 patients received 
tadalafil and 18 patients received placebo.   
Tadalafil dose was administered based on patient’s weight at the screening visit. The majority of 
patients (25 [71.4 %]) were ≥ 40 kg and received 40 mg, with the remainder (10 [28.6 %]) weighing 
≥ 25 kg to < 40 kg and receiving 20 mg. There were 16 male and 19 female patients in this study; the 
median age for the overall population was 14.2 years (ranged from 6.2 to 17.9 years). No patient aged 
< 6years was enrolled in the study. Pulmonary arterial hypertension aetiologies were predominantly 
IPAH (74.3 %) and PAH associated with persisting or recurrent pulmonary hypertension after repair 
of a congenital systemic to pulmonary shunt (25.7 %). The majority of patients were in WHO 
functional Class II (80 %).  
The primary objective of period 1 was to evaluate the efficacy of tadalafil compared with placebo in 
improving 6MWD from baseline to Week 24, as assessed in patients ≥ 6 to < 18 years of age who 
were developmentally capable of performing a 6MW test. For the primary analysis (MMRM), the LS 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mean (Standard Error: SE) change from baseline to 24 weeks in 6MWD was 60 (SE: 20.4) metres for 
tadalafil  and 37 (SE: 20.8) metres for placebo. 
Additionally, in paediatric patients with PAH aged ≥ 2 to < 18 years, an exposure-response (ER) 
model was used to predict 6MWD based upon paediatric exposure following 20 or 40 mg daily doses 
estimated using a Population PK model and an established adult ER model (H6D-MC-LVGY). The 
model demonstrated similarity of response between model-predicted and the actual observed 6MWD 
in paediatric patients aged 6 to < 18 years from Study H6D-MC-LVHV.   
There were no confirmed cases of clinical worsening in either treatment group during period 1. The 
proportion of patients with improvement in WHO functional class from baseline to week 24 was 40 % 
in the tadalafil group compared to 20 % in the placebo group. Additionally, a positive trend of 
potential efficacy in tadalafil versus placebo group was also observed in measurements like NT-Pro-
BNP (treatment difference: -127.4, 95 % CI, -247.05 to -7.80), echocardiographic parameters 
(TAPSE: treatment difference 0.43, 95 % CI, 0.14 to 0.71; left ventricular EI-systolic: treatment 
difference -0.40, 95 % CI, -0.87 to 0.07; left ventricular EI-diastolic: treatment difference -0.17, 
95 % CI, -0.43 to 0.09; 2 patients with reported pericardial effusion from placebo group and none from 
tadalafil group), and CGI-I (improved in tadalafil 64.3 %, placebo 46.7 %).   
Long term extension data 
A total of 32 patients from the placebo-controlled study (H6D-MC-LVHV) entered the open-label 2-
year extension period (period 2) during which all patients received tadalafil at their appropriate weight 
cohort-related dose. The primary objective of period 2 was to evaluate the long-term safety of 
tadalafil.  
In total, 26 patients completed the follow-up, during which time no new safety signals were observed.  
Clinical worsening was experienced in 5 patients; 1 had new onset syncope, 2 had an increase in 
endothelin receptor antagonist dose, 1 had addition of new PAH-specific concomitant therapy and 1 
was hospitalized for PAH progression. WHO functional class was maintained or improved in the 
majority of patients at the end of period 2.  
Pharmacodynamic effects in children aged < 6 years 
Due to limited availability of pharmacodynamic measures and lack of a suitable and approved clinical 
endpoint in children younger than age 6 years, efficacy is extrapolated in this population based upon 
exposure-matching to the adult efficacious dose range.   
Dosing and efficacy of ADCIRCA has not been established for children aged less than 2 years.   
Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
A single study has been performed in paediatric patients with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) 
in which no evidence of efficacy was seen. The randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
parallel, 3-arm study of tadalafil was conducted in 331 boys aged 7-14 years with DMD receiving 
concurrent corticosteroid therapy. The study included a 48-week double-blind period where patients 
were randomised to tadalafil 0.3 mg/kg, tadalafil 0.6 mg/kg, or placebo daily. Tadalafil did not show 
efficacy in slowing the decline in ambulation as measured by the primary 6-minute walk distance 
(6MWD) endpoint: least squares (LS) mean change in 6MWD at 48 weeks was -51.0 meters (m) in the 
placebo group, compared with -64.7 m in the tadalafil 0.3 mg/kg group (p = 0.307) and -59.1 m in the 
tadalafil 0.6 mg/kg group (p = 0.538). In addition, there was no evidence of efficacy from any of the 
secondary analyses performed in this study. The overall safety results from this study were generally 
consistent with the known safety profile of tadalafil and with adverse events (AEs) expected in a 
paediatric DMD population receiving corticosteroids. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that ADCIRCA tablets and oral suspension are bioequivalent 
based upon AUC(0-∞) in the fasted state. The tmax of the oral suspension is approximately 1 hour later 
than the tablets, however the difference was not considered clinically relevant. While the tablets may 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be taken with or without food, the oral suspension should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour 
before or 2 hours after a meal. 
Absorption 
Tadalafil is readily absorbed after oral administration and the mean maximum observed plasma 
concentration (Cmax) is achieved at a median time of 4 hours after dosing. Pharmacokinetic studies 
have shown that ADCIRCA tablets and oral suspension are bioequivalent based upon AUC(0-∞). 
Absolute bioavailability of tadalafil following oral dosing has not been determined. 
The rate and extent of absorption of tadalafil film-coated tablets are not influenced by food, thus 
ADCIRCA tablets may be taken with or without food. The effect of food on the rate and extent of 
absorption with the tadalafil oral suspension has not been investigated; therefore, tadalafil suspension 
should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal. The time of dosing 
(morning versus evening after a single 10 mg administration) had no clinically relevant effects on the 
rate and extent of absorption. For children, tadalafil was dosed in clinical trials and post-marketing 
trials without regard to food with no safety concerns. 
Distribution  
The  mean  volume  of  distribution  is  approximately  77 L  at  steady  state,  indicating  that  tadalafil  is 
distributed into tissues. At therapeutic concentrations, 94 % of tadalafil in plasma is bound to proteins. 
Protein binding is not affected by impaired renal function. 
Less than 0.0005 % of the administered dose appeared in the semen of healthy subjects. 
Biotransformation 
Tadalafil  is  predominantly  metabolised  by  the  cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  3A4  isoform.  The  major 
circulating metabolite is the  methylcatechol  glucuronide.  This metabolite is  at least  13 000-fold less 
potent  than  tadalafil  for  PDE5.  Consequently,  it  is  not  expected  to  be  clinically  active  at  observed 
metabolite concentrations. 
Elimination  
The mean oral clearance for tadalafil is 3.4 L/h at steady state and the mean terminal half-life is 
16 hours in healthy subjects. Tadalafil is excreted predominantly as inactive metabolites, mainly in the 
faeces (approximately 61 % of the dose) and to a lesser extent in the urine (approximately 36 % of the 
dose).  
Linearity/non-linearity 
Over a dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg, tadalafil exposure (AUC) increases proportionally with dose in 
healthy subjects. Between 20 mg to 40 mg, a less than proportional increase in exposure is observed.  
During tadalafil 20 mg and 40 mg once daily dosing, steady-state plasma concentrations are attained 
within 5 days, and exposure is approximately 1.5 fold of that after a single dose. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
In patients with pulmonary hypertension not receiving concomitant bosentan, the average tadalafil 
exposure at steady-state following 40 mg was 26 % higher when compared to those of healthy 
volunteers. There were no clinically relevant differences in Cmax compared to healthy volunteers. The 
results suggest a lower clearance of tadalafil in patients with pulmonary hypertension compared to 
healthy volunteers. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Healthy elderly subjects (65 years or over), had a lower oral clearance of tadalafil, resulting in 25 % 
higher exposure (AUC) relative to healthy subjects aged 19 to 45 years after a 10 mg dose. This effect 
of age is not clinically significant and does not warrant a dose adjustment. 
Renal impairment  
In  clinical  pharmacology  studies  using  single-dose  tadalafil  (5  to  20 mg),  tadalafil  exposure  (AUC) 
approximately  doubled  in  subjects  with  mild  (creatinine  clearance  51  to  80 mL/min)  or  moderate 
(creatinine clearance 31 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment and in subjects with end-stage renal disease 
on  dialysis.  In  haemodialysis  patients,  Cmax  was  41 %  higher  than  that  observed  in  healthy  subjects. 
Haemodialysis contributes negligibly to tadalafil elimination.  
Due  to  increased  tadalafil  exposure  (AUC),  limited  clinical  experience,  and  the  lack  of  ability  to 
influence clearance by dialysis, tadalafil is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment  
Tadalafil exposure (AUC) in subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class 
A and B) is comparable to exposure in healthy subjects when a dose of 10 mg is administered. If 
tadalafil is prescribed, a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation should be undertaken by the 
prescribing physician. There are no available data about the administration of doses higher than 10 mg 
of tadalafil to patients with hepatic impairment. 
Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) have not been studied and therefore dosing 
of tadalafil in these patients is not recommended. 
Patients with diabetes 
Tadalafil exposure (AUC) in patients with diabetes was approximately 19 % lower than the AUC 
value for healthy subjects after a 10 mg dose. This difference in exposure does not warrant a dose 
adjustment.  
Race 
Pharmacokinetic studies have included subjects and patients from different ethnic groups, and no 
differences in the typical exposure to tadalafil have been identified. No dose adjustment is warranted. 
Gender 
In healthy female and male subjects following single and multiple-doses of tadalafil, no clinically 
relevant differences in exposure were observed. No dose adjustment is warranted. 
Paediatric population 
Based on data from 36 paediatric patients with PAH aged 2 to < 18 years, body weight did not have an 
impact on the clearance of tadalafil; the AUC values in all paediatric weight groups are similar to 
those in adult patients at the same dose. Body weight was shown to be a predictor of peak exposure in 
children; due to this weight effect, the dose is 20 mg daily for paediatric patients ≥ 2 years and 
weighing < 40 kg, and the Cmax is expected to be similar to paediatric patients weighing ≥ 40 kg taking 
40 mg daily. Tmax for the tablet formulation was estimated at approximately 4 hours and was 
independent of body weight. Tadalafil half-life values were estimated to range from 13.6 to 24.2 hours 
for a range of 10 to 80 kg of body weight and did not show any clinically relevant differences.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional trials of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, and toxicity to 
reproduction. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no evidence of teratogenicity, embryotoxicity or foetotoxicity in rats or mice that received 
up to 1 000 mg/kg/day tadalafil. In a rat prenatal and postnatal development study, the no observed 
effect dose was 30 mg/kg/day. In the pregnant rat the AUC for calculated free active substance at this 
dose was approximately 18 times the human AUC at a 20 mg dose. 
There was no impairment of fertility in male and female rats. In dogs given tadalafil daily for 6 to 
12 months at doses of 25 mg/kg/day (resulting in at least a 3-fold greater exposure [range 3.7 – 18.6] 
than seen in humans given a single 20 mg dose) and above, there was regression of the seminiferous 
tubular epithelium that resulted in a decrease in spermatogenesis in some dogs. See also section 5.1.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate  
Croscarmellose sodium  
Hydroxypropylcellulose  
Microcrystalline cellulose  
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coat 
Lactose monohydrate  
Hypromellose 
Triacetin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Talc 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30 °C.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/PVC/PE/PCTFE blisters in cartons of 28 and 56 film-coated tablets. 
Not all packs sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/476/005-006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 1 October 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2013  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ADCIRCA 2 mg/mL oral suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of oral suspension contains 2 mg tadalafil. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of oral suspension contains: 
2.1 mg sodium benzoate (E211) 
110.25 mg sorbitol (E420) 
3.1 mg propylene glycol (E1520) 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral suspension 
White to practically white suspension 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional class II and III, to 
improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1). 
Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH related to collagen vascular disease. 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of paediatric patients aged 2 years and above with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
classified as WHO functional class II and III. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should only be initiated and monitored by a physician experienced in the treatment of PAH. 
Posology 
Adults 
The recommended dose is 40 mg (two x 20 mg film-coated tablets) taken once daily. 
Paediatric population (age 2 years to 17 years) 
The recommended once daily doses based on age and weight categories in paediatric patients are 
shown below.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric patient’s age and/or weight 
Age ≥ 2 years old 
          Body weight ≥ 40 kg 
          Body weight < 40 kg 
Recommended daily dose and dosing regimen 
40 mg (two 20 mg tablets*) once daily 
20 mg (one 20 mg tablet or 10 mL of oral 
suspension (OS), 2 mg/mL tadalafil*) once daily 
* Tablets are available for patients able to swallow them and taking a 20 or 40 mg dose.  
For patients < 2 years old no PK or efficacy data are available from clinical trials. The most 
appropriate dose of ADCIRCA in children aged between 6 months to < 2 years has not been 
established. Therefore, ADCIRCA is not recommended in this age subset. 
Delayed dose, missed dose, or vomiting 
If there is a delay in the administration of ADCIRCA, but yet within the same day, the dose should be 
taken with no changes to the subsequent dose schedules. Patients should not take an extra dose if a 
dose is missed.  
Patients should not take an extra dose if vomiting occurs. 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
Dose adjustments are not required in elderly patients. 
Renal impairment 
Adults and paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing at least 40 kg) 
In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment a starting dose of 20 mg once per day is 
recommended. The dose may be increased to 40 mg once per day, based on individual efficacy and 
tolerability. In patients with severe renal impairment the use of tadalafil is not recommended (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric Population (2 to 17 years, weighing less than 40 kg)  
In patients < 40 kg and with mild to moderate renal impairment a starting dose of 10 mg once per day 
is recommended. The dose may be increased to 20 mg once per day, based on individual efficacy and 
tolerability. In patients with severe renal impairment the use of tadalafil is not recommended (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Adults and paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing at least 40 kg)  
Due to limited clinical experience in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh 
Class A and B), a starting dose of 20 mg once per day may be considered.  
Paediatric population (2 to 17 years, weighing less than 40 kg)  
In patients < 40 kg and with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, a starting dose of 10 mg once per 
day may be considered. 
For patients of all ages, if tadalafil is prescribed, a careful individual benefit/risk assessment should be 
undertaken by the prescribing physician. Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) 
have not been studied and therefore dosing of tadalafil is not recommended (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population (age < 2 years) 
Dosing and efficacy of ADCIRCA in children aged < 2 years has not been established. Currently 
available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
Oral use.  
The oral suspension should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a 
meal. 
For instructions on preparation of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
The prescribed dose of ADCIRCA oral suspension can be administered via nasogastric (NG) tube. 
Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for the NG tube to administer the medicinal product. To ensure 
adequate dosing, after administration of the oral suspension, the enteral feeding tube must be flushed 
with at least 3 mL of water or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for infusion. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Acute myocardial infarction within the last 90 days. 
Severe hypotension (< 90/50 mm Hg). 
In clinical trials, tadalafil was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates. This is thought to 
result from the combined effects of nitrates and tadalafil on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway. 
Therefore, administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate is 
contraindicated (see section 4.5). 
The co-administration of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors, including tadalafil, with 
guanylate cyclase stimulators, such as riociguat, is contraindicated as it may potentially lead to 
symptomatic hypotension (see section 4.5). 
Patients who have loss of vision in one eye because of non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy 
(NAION), regardless of whether this episode was in connection or not with previous PDE5 inhibitor 
exposure (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Cardiovascular diseases 
The following groups of patients with cardiovascular disease were not included in PAH clinical trials: 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Patients with clinically significant aortic and mitral valve disease 
Patients with pericardial constriction 
Patients with restrictive or congestive cardiomyopathy 
Patients with significant left ventricular dysfunction 
Patients with life-threatening arrhythmias 
Patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease 
Patients with uncontrolled hypertension. 
Since there are no clinical data on the safety of tadalafil in these patients, the use of tadalafil is not 
recommended.  
Pulmonary vasodilators may significantly worsen the cardiovascular status of patients with pulmonary 
veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). Since there are no clinical data on administration of tadalafil to 
patients with veno-occlusive disease, administration of tadalafil to such patients is not recommended. 
Should signs of pulmonary oedema occur when tadalafil is administered, the possibility of associated 
PVOD should be considered.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tadalafil has systemic vasodilatory properties that may result in transient decreases in blood pressure. 
Physicians should carefully consider whether their patients with certain underlying conditions, such as 
severe left ventricular outflow obstruction, fluid depletion, autonomic hypotension or patients with 
resting hypotension, could be adversely affected by such vasodilatory effects. 
In patients who are taking alpha1 blockers concomitant administration of tadalafil may lead to 
symptomatic hypotension in some patients (see section 4.5). Therefore, the combination of tadalafil 
and doxazosin is not recommended. 
Vision 
Visual defects, including Central Serous Chorioretinopathy (CSCR), and cases of NAION have been 
reported in connection with the intake of tadalafil and other PDE5 inhibitors. Most cases of CSCR 
resolved spontaneously after stopping tadalafil. Regarding NAION, analyses of observational data 
suggest an increased risk of acute NAION in men with erectile dysfunction following exposure to 
tadalafil or other PDE5 inhibitors. As this may be relevant for all patients exposed to tadalafil, the 
patient should be advised that in case of sudden visual defect, visual acuity impairment and/or visual 
distortion, he should stop taking ADCIRCA and consult a physician immediately (see section 4.3). 
Patients with known hereditary degenerative retinal disorders, including retinitis pigmentosa, were not 
included in the clinical trials, and use in these patients is not recommended.  
Decreased or sudden hearing loss 
Cases of sudden hearing loss have been reported after the use of tadalafil. Although other risk factors 
were present in some cases (such as age, diabetes, hypertension, previous hearing loss history and 
associated connective tissue diseases) patients should be advised to seek prompt medical attention in 
the event of sudden decrease or loss of hearing. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Due to increased tadalafil exposure (AUC), limited clinical experience, and the lack of ability to 
influence clearance by dialysis, tadalafil is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) have not been studied and, therefore, 
dosing of tadalafil is not recommended. 
Priapism and anatomical deformation of the penis 
Priapism has been reported in men treated with PDE5 inhibitors. Patients who experience erections 
lasting 4 hours or more should be instructed to seek immediate medical assistance. If priapism is not 
treated immediately, penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency may result. 
Tadalafil should be used with caution in patients with anatomical deformation of the penis (such as 
angulation, cavernosal fibrosis or Peyronie's disease), or in patients who have conditions which may 
predispose them to priapism (such as sickle cell anaemia, multiple myeloma or leukaemia). 
Use with CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors 
For patients chronically taking potent inducers of CYP3A4, such as rifampicin, the use of tadalafil is 
not recommended (see section 4.5). 
For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the 
use of tadalafil is not recommended (see section 4.5).  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments for erectile dysfunction 
The safety and efficacy of combinations of tadalafil and other PDE5 inhibitors or other treatments for 
erectile dysfunction have not been studied. Patients should be informed not to take ADCIRCA with 
these medicinal products. 
Prostacyclin and its analogues 
The efficacy and safety of tadalafil co-administered with prostacyclin or its analogues has not been 
studied in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, caution is recommended in case of co-administration. 
Bosentan 
The efficacy of tadalafil in patients already on bosentan therapy has not been conclusively 
demonstrated (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
Excipients  
Sodium benzoate 
This medicinal product contains 2.1 mg sodium benzoate in each mL of oral suspension.  
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 110.25 mg sorbitol in each mL. Sorbitol is a source of fructose. The 
additive effect of concomitantly administered products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and dietary 
intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account. Patients with hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI) must not be given this medicine unless strictly necessary. 
Propylene glycol 
This medicinal product contains 3.1 mg propylene glycol in each mL.  
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg)per 1 mL, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on tadalafil 
Cytochrome P450 inhibitors 
Azole antifungals (e.g. ketoconazole) 
Ketoconazole (200 mg daily), increased tadalafil (10 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold and Cmax 
by 15 %, relative to the AUC and Cmax values for tadalafil alone. Ketoconazole (400 mg daily) 
increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 4-fold and Cmax by 22 %. 
Protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir) 
Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), which is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, 
increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold with no change in Cmax. Ritonavir 
(500 mg or 600 mg twice daily) increased tadalafil (20 mg) single-dose exposure (AUC) by 32 % and 
decreased Cmax by 30 %.  
Cytochrome P450 inducers 
Endothelin-1 receptor antagonists (e.g. bosentan) 
Bosentan (125 mg twice daily), a substrate of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 and a moderate inducer of 
CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and possibly CYP2C19, reduced tadalafil (40 mg once per day) systemic exposure 
by 42 % and Cmax by 27 % following multiple dose co-administration. The efficacy of tadalafil in 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients already on bosentan therapy has not been conclusively demonstrated (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). Tadalafil did not affect the exposure (AUC and Cmax) of bosentan or its metabolites. 
The safety and efficacy of combinations of tadalafil and other endothelin-1 receptor antagonists have 
not been studied. 
Antimycobacterials (e.g. rifampicin) 
A CYP3A4 inducer, rifampicin (600 mg daily), reduced tadalafil AUC by 88 % and Cmax by 46 %, 
relative to the AUC and Cmax values for tadalafil alone (10 mg). 
Effects of tadalafil on other medicinal products 
Nitrates 
In clinical trials, tadalafil (5, 10 and 20 mg) was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates. 
This interaction lasted for more than 24 hours and was no longer detectable when 48 hours had 
elapsed after the last tadalafil dose. Therefore, administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any 
form of organic nitrate is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Anti-hypertensives (including Calcium channel blockers) 
The co-administration of doxazosin (4 and 8 mg daily) and tadalafil (5 mg daily dose and 20 mg as a 
single dose) increases the blood pressure-lowering effect of this alpha-blocker in a significant manner. 
This  effect  lasts  at  least  twelve  hours  and  may  be  symptomatic,  including  syncope.  Therefore,  this 
combination is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
In interaction studies performed in a limited number of healthy volunteers, these effects were not 
reported with alfuzosin or tamsulosin. 
In clinical pharmacology trials, the potential for tadalafil (10 and 20 mg) to augment the hypotensive 
effects of antihypertensive medicinal products was examined. Major classes of antihypertensive 
medicinal products were studied either as monotherapy or as part of combination therapy. In patients 
taking multiple antihypertensive medicinal products whose hypertension was not well controlled, 
greater reductions in blood pressure were observed compared to patients whose blood pressure was 
well controlled, where the reduction was minimal and similar to that in healthy subjects. In patients 
receiving concomitant antihypertensive medicinal products, tadalafil 20 mg may induce a blood 
pressure decrease, which (with the exception of doxazosin -see above) is, in general, minor and not 
likely to be clinically relevant. 
Riociguat 
Preclinical trials showed an additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors 
were combined with riociguat. In clinical trials, riociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive 
effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in 
the population studied. Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).   
CYP1A2 substrates (e.g. theophylline) 
When tadalafil 10 mg was administered with theophylline (a non-selective phosphodiesterase 
inhibitor) there was no pharmacokinetic interaction. The only pharmacodynamic effect was a small 
(3.5 beats per minute [bpm]) increase in heart rate. 
CYP2C9 substrates (e.g.R-warfarin) 
Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) had no clinically significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or 
R-warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate), nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by 
warfarin.  
Acetylsalicylic acid 
Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic 
acid.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-glycoprotein substrates (e.g. digoxin) 
Tadalafil (40 mg once per day) had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. 
Oral contraceptive 
At steady-state, tadalafil (40 mg once per day) increased ethinylestradiol exposure (AUC) by 26 % and 
Cmax by 70 % relative to oral contraceptive administered with placebo. There was no statistically 
significant effect of tadalafil on levonorgestrel which suggests the effect of ethinylestradiol is due to 
inhibition of intestinal sulphation by tadalafil. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain. 
Terbutaline 
A similar increase in AUC and Cmax seen with ethinylestradiol may be expected with oral 
administration of terbutaline, probably due to inhibition of intestinal sulphation by tadalafil. The 
clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain. 
Alcohol 
Alcohol concentrations were not affected by co-administration with tadalafil (10 mg or 20 mg). In 
addition, no changes in tadalafil concentrations were seen after co-administration with alcohol. 
Tadalafil (20 mg) did not augment the mean blood pressure decrease produced by alcohol (0.7 g/kg or 
approximately 180 mL of 40 % alcohol [vodka] in an 80 kg male), but in some subjects, postural 
dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were observed. The effect of alcohol on cognitive function was 
not augmented by tadalafil (10 mg). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Based  upon  population  PK  analysis,  the  estimates  of  apparent  clearance  (CL/F)  and  the  effect  of 
bosentan  on  CL/F  in  paediatric  patients  are  similar  to  those  in  adult  patients  with  PAH.    No  dose 
adjustment is considered necessary for tadalafil with bosentan use. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data from the use of tadalafil in pregnant women. Animal trials do not indicate direct 
or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition or 
postnatal development (see section 5.3). As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use 
of tadalafil during pregnancy.  
Breast-feeding 
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of tadalafil in milk. 
A risk to the breastfed child cannot be excluded. ADCIRCA should not be used during breast feeding.  
Fertility 
Effects were seen in dogs that might indicate impairment of fertility. Two subsequent clinical trials 
suggest that this effect is unlikely in humans, although a decrease in sperm concentration was seen in 
some men (see sections 5.1 and 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
ADCIRCA has negligible influence on the ability to drive or use machines. Although the frequency of 
reports of dizziness in placebo and tadalafil arms in clinical trials was similar, patients should be 
aware of how they react to ADCIRCA, before driving or operating machinery. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions, occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients in the tadalafil 40 mg 
treatment arm, were headache, nausea, back pain, dyspepsia, flushing, myalgia, nasopharingitis and 
pain in extremity. The adverse reactions reported were transient, and generally mild or moderate. 
Adverse reaction data are limited in patients over 75 years of age. 
In the pivotal placebo-controlled study of ADCIRCA for the treatment of PAH, a total of 323 patients 
were treated with ADCIRCA at doses ranging from 2.5 mg to 40 mg once daily and 82 patients were 
treated with placebo. The duration of treatment was 16 weeks. The overall frequency of 
discontinuation due to adverse events was low (ADCIRCA 11 %, placebo 16 %). Three hundred and 
fifty-seven (357) patients who completed the pivotal study entered a long-term extension study. Doses 
studied were 20 mg and 40 mg once daily.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below lists the adverse reactions reported during the placebo-controlled clinical trial in 
patients with PAH treated with ADCIRCA.  Also included in the table are some adverse reactions 
which have been reported in clinical trials and/or post-marketing with tadalafil in the treatment of 
male erectile dysfunction.  These events have either been assigned a frequency of “Not known,” as the 
frequency in PAH patients cannot be estimated from the available data or assigned a frequency based 
on the clinical trial data from the pivotal placebo-controlled study of ADCIRCA. 
Frequency estimate: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Very common  
Common  
Uncommon  
Rare  
Not known1  
System Organ 
Class 
Immune system 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache6 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions5 
Syncope, 
Migraine5 
Seizures5, 
Transient 
amnesia5 
Eye disorders 
Blurred vision 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
 Palpitations2, 5 
Tinnitus 
Sudden cardiac 
death2, 5, 
Tachycardia2, 5 
Vascular 
disorders 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
Hypertension 
26 
Angioedema 
Stroke2 (including 
haemorrhagic 
events) 
Non-arteritic 
anterior ischemic 
optic neuropathy 
(NAION), Retinal 
vascular occlusion, 
Visual field defect, 
Central serous 
chorioretinopathy 
Sudden hearing 
loss 
Unstable angina 
pectoris, 
Ventricular 
arrhythmia, 
Myocardial 
Infarction2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal, 
connective tissue 
and bone 
disorders 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders  
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Epistaxis 
Vomiting, 
Gastroesophageal 
reflux 
Rash 
Nasopharyngitis 
(including nasal 
congestion, sinus 
congestion and 
rhinitis) 
Nausea, 
Dyspepsia 
(including 
abdominal 
pain/discomfort3) 
Myalgia,  
Back pain 
Pain in extremity 
(including limb 
discomfort) 
Urticaria5, 
Hyperhydrosis 
(sweating)5 
Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome, 
Exfoliative 
dermatitis 
Haematuria 
Priapism5, Penile 
haemorrhage, 
Haematospermia 
Increased uterine 
bleeding4 
Facial oedema, 
Chest pain2 
Prolonged erections 
 (1) Events not reported in registration trials and cannot be estimated from the available data.  The 
adverse reactions have been included in the table as a result of post-marketing or clinical trial data 
from the use of tadalafil in the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
(2) Most of the patients in whom these events have been reported had pre-existing cardiovascular risk 
factors. 
(3) Actual MedDRA terms included are abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, 
abdominal pain upper, and stomach discomfort. 
(4) Clinical non-MedDRA term to include reports of abnormal/excessive menstrual bleeding conditions 
such as menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, menometrorrhagia, or vaginal haemorrhage. 
(5) The adverse reactions have been included in the table as a result of post-marketing or clinical trial 
data from the use of tadalafil in the treatment of erectile dysfunction; and in addition, the frequency 
estimates are based on only 1 or 2 patients experiencing the adverse reaction in the pivotal placebo-
controlled study of ADCIRCA.  
(6) Headache was the most commonly reported adverse reaction. Headache may occur at the beginning 
of therapy; and decreases over time even if treatment is continued.   
Paediatric population 
A total of 51 paediatric patients aged from 2.5 to 17 years with PAH were treated with tadalafil in 
clinical trials (H6D-MC-LVHV, H6D-MC-LVIG). A total of 391 paediatric patients with PAH, from 
new-born to < 18 years, were treated with tadalafil in an observational post-marketing study (H6D-JE-
TD01). Following tadalafil administration, the frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in 
children and adolescents were similar to that seen for adults. Due to differences in study design, 
sample size, gender, age range, and doses, safety findings from these trials are detailed separately 
below.   
Placebo-controlled clinical trial in paediatric patients (H6D-MC-LVHV) 
In a randomised, placebo-controlled study in 35 patients aged 6.2 to 17.9 years (median age of 
14.2 years) with PAH, a total of 17 patients were treated once daily with ADCIRCA 20 mg (middle-
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weight cohort, ≥ 25 kg to < 40 kg) or 40 mg (heavy-weight cohort, ≥ 40 kg), and 18 patients were 
treated with placebo, for 24 weeks. The most common AEs, occurring in ≥ 2 patients treated with 
tadalafil, were headache (29.4 %), upper respiratory tract infection and influenza (17.6 % each), and 
arthralgia and epistaxis (11.8 % each).  No deaths or SAEs were reported. Of the 35 paediatric patients 
treated in the short-term, placebo-controlled study, 32 entered the 24 month long-term open-label 
extension and 26 patients completed the follow-up. No new safety signals were observed. 
Uncontrolled pharmacokinetic study in paediatric patients (H6D-MC-LVIG)   
In a paediatric multiple ascending dose study, 19patients with a median age of 10.9 years [range 
2.5 – 17 years] received once daily ADCIRCA, for an open-label treatment duration of 10 weeks 
(Period 1) and for up to a further 24 months in an extension (Period 2). SAEs were reported in 
8patients (42.1 %). These were pulmonary hypertension (21.0 %), viral infection (10.5 %), and cardiac 
failure, gastritis, pyrexia, type 1 diabetes mellitus, febrile convulsion, presyncope, seizure, and ovarian 
cyst (5.3 % each). No patient was discontinued due to AEs. TEAEs were reported in 18 patients 
(94.7 %) and the most frequent TEAEs (occurring in ≥ 5 patients) were headache, pyrexia, viral upper 
respiratory tract infection, and vomiting.  Two deaths were reported. 
Post-marketing study in paediatric patients (H6D-JE-TD01) 
Safety data were collected during an observational post-marketing study in Japan including 
391 paediatric PAH patients (2 years maximum observational period). The mean age of patients in the 
study was 5.7 ± 5.3 years, including 79 patients aged < 1year, 41 aged1 to < 2years, 122 aged 2 to 
6 years, 110 aged 7 to 14 years, and 39 aged 15 to 17 years. AEs were reported in 123 patients 
(31.5 %). The incidences of AEs (≥ 5 patients) were pulmonary hypertension (3.6 %); headache 
(2.8 %); heart failure and decreased platelet count (2.0 % each); epistaxis and upper respiratory tract 
infection (1.8 % each); bronchitis, diarrhoea, and abnormal hepatic function (1.5 % each); and 
gastroenteritis, protein losing gastroenteropathy, and increased aspartate aminotransferase (1.3 % 
each). The incidence of SAEs was 12.0 % (≥ 3 patients), including pulmonary hypertension (3.6 %), 
heart failure (1.5 %), and pneumonia (0.8 %). Sixteen deaths (4.1 %) were reported; none were related 
to tadalafil. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single doses of up to 500 mg have been given to healthy subjects, and multiple daily doses up to 
100 mg have been given to patients with erectile dysfunction. Adverse reactions were similar to those 
seen at lower doses.  
In cases of overdose, standard supportive measures should be adopted as required. Haemodialysis 
contributes negligibly to tadalafil elimination. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Urologicals, drugs used in erectile dysfunction, ATC code: G04BE08. 
Mechanism of action 
Tadalafil is a potent and selective inhibitor of PDE5, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of 
cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Pulmonary arterial hypertension is associated with 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impaired release of nitric oxide by the vascular endothelium and consequent reduction of cGMP 
concentrations within the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle. PDE5 is the predominant 
phosphodiesterase in the pulmonary vasculature. Inhibition of PDE5 by tadalafil increases the 
concentrations of cGMP resulting in relaxation of the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle cell and 
vasodilation of the pulmonary vascular bed. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Studies in vitro have shown that tadalafil is a selective inhibitor of PDE5. PDE5 is an enzyme found in 
corpus cavernosum smooth muscle, vascular and visceral smooth muscle, skeletal muscle, platelets, 
kidney, lung, and cerebellum. The effect of tadalafil is more potent on PDE5 than on other 
phosphodiesterases. Tadalafil is > 10 000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE1, PDE2, and 
PDE4, enzymes which are found in the heart, brain, blood vessels, liver, and other organs. Tadalafil is 
> 10 000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE3, an enzyme found in the heart and blood vessels. 
This selectivity for PDE5 over PDE3 is important because PDE3 is an enzyme involved in cardiac 
contractility. Additionally, tadalafil is approximately 700-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE6, 
an enzyme which is found in the retina and is responsible for phototransduction. Tadalafil is also 
> 10 000-fold more potent for PDE5 than for PDE7 through PDE10.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in adults 
A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted in 405 patients with pulmonary 
arterial hypertension. Allowed background therapy included bosentan (stable maintenance dose up to 
125 mg twice daily) and chronic anticoagulation, digoxin, diuretics and oxygen. More than half 
(53.3 %) of the patients in the study were receiving concomitant bosentan therapy. 
Patients were randomised to one of five treatment groups (tadalafil 2.5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg, or 
placebo). Patients were at least 12 years of age and had a diagnosis of PAH that was idiopathic, related 
to collagen disease, related to anorexigen use, related to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection, associated with an atrial-septal defect, or associated with surgical repair of at least 1 year in 
duration of a congenital systemic-to-pulmonary shunt (for example, ventricular septal defect, patent 
ductus arteriosus). The mean age of all patients was 54 years (range 14 to 90 years) with the majority 
of patients being Caucasian (80.5 %) and female (78.3 %). Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
aetiologies were predominantly idiopathic PAH (61.0 %) and related to collagen vascular disease 
(23.5 %). The majority of patients had a World Health Organization (WHO) Functional Class III 
(65.2 %) or II (32.1 %). The mean baseline 6-minute-walk-distance (6MWD) was 343.6 meters. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline at week 16 in 6-minute walk distance 
(6MWD). Only tadalafil 40 mg achieved the protocol defined level of significance with a placebo-
adjusted median increase in 6MWD of 26 metres (p = 0.0004; 95 % CI: 9.5, 44.0; Pre-specified 
Hodges-Lehman method) (mean 33 metres, 95 % CI: 15.2, 50.3). The improvement in walk distance 
was apparent from 8 weeks of treatment. Significant improvement (p < 0.01) in the 6MWD was 
demonstrated at week 12 when the patients were asked to delay taking study medicinal product in 
order to reflect trough active substance concentration. Results were generally consistent in subgroups 
according to age, gender, PAH aetiology and baseline WHO functional class and 6MWD. The 
placebo-adjusted median increase in 6MWD was 17 metres (p = 0.09; 95 % CI: : -7.1, 43.0; Pre-
specified Hodges-Lehman method) (mean 23 metres, 95 % CI; -2.4, 47.8) in those patients who 
received tadalafil 40 mg in addition to their concomitant bosentan (n = 39), and was 39 metres 
(p < 0.01, 95 % CI:13.0, 66.0; Pre-specified Hodges-Lehman method) (mean 44 metres, 95 % CI: 
19.7, 69.0) in those patients who received tadalafil 40 mg alone (n = 37). 
The proportion of patients with improvement in WHO functional class by week 16 was similar in the 
tadalafil 40 mg and placebo groups (23 % vs. 21 %).  The incidence of clinical worsening by week 16 
in patients treated with tadalafil 40 mg (5 %; 4 of 79 patients) was less than placebo (16 %; 13 of 
82 patients). Changes in the Borg dyspnoea score were small and non-significant with both placebo 
and tadalafil 40 mg. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, improvements compared to placebo were observed with tadalafil 40 mg in the physical 
functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality and social functioning domains of the 
SF-36. No improvements were observed in the role emotional and mental health domains of the 
SF-36. Improvements compared to placebo were observed with tadalafil 40 mg in the EuroQol 
(EQ-5D) US and UK index scores comprising mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, 
anxiety/depression components, and in the visual analogue scale (VAS). 
Cardiopulmonary haemodynamics was performed in 93 patients. Tadalafil 40 mg increased cardiac 
output (0.6 L/min) and reduced pulmonary artery pressures (-4.3 mmHg) and pulmonary vascular 
resistance (-209 dyn.s/cm5) compared to baseline (p < 0.05). However, post hoc analyses demonstrated 
that changes from baseline in cardiopulmonary haemodynamic parameters for the tadalafil 40 mg 
treatment group were not significantly different compared to placebo. 
Long-term treatment 
357 patients from the placebo-controlled study entered a long-term extension study. Of these, 
311 patients had been treated with tadalafil for at least 6 months and 293 for 1 year (median exposure 
365 days; range 2 days to 415 days). For those patients for which there are data, the survival rate at 
1 year is 96.4 %. Additionally, 6-minute walk distance and WHO functional class status appeared to 
be stable in those treated with tadalafil for 1 year. 
Tadalafil 20 mg administered to healthy subjects produced no significant difference compared to 
placebo in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mean maximal decrease of 1.6/0.8 mm Hg, 
respectively), in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mean maximal decrease of 
0.2/4.6 mm Hg, respectively), and no significant change in heart rate.  
In a study to assess the effects of tadalafil on vision, no impairment of colour discrimination (blue/green) 
was detected using the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue test. This finding is consistent with the low affinity 
of tadalafil for PDE6 compared to PDE5. Across all clinical trials, reports of changes in colour vision 
were rare (< 0.1 %). 
Three trials were conducted in men to assess the potential effect on spermatogenesis of tadalafil 10 mg 
(one 6-month study) and 20 mg (one 6-month and one 9-month study) administered daily. In two of 
these trials decreases were observed in sperm count and concentration related to tadalafil treatment of 
unlikely clinical relevance. These effects were not associated with changes in other parameters such as 
motility, morphology and FSH. 
Paediatric population 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in children 
A total of 35 paediatric patients with PAH aged 6 to < 18 years were treated in a 2-period add-on (in 
addition to patient’s current endothelin receptor antagonist) study (H6D-MC-LVHV) to evaluate 
tadalafil efficacy, safety, and PK. In the 6-month double-blind period (Period 1), 17 patients received 
tadalafil and 18 patients received placebo.   
Tadalafil dose was administered based on patient’s weight at the screening visit. The majority of 
patients (25 [71.4 %]) were ≥ 40 kg and received 40 mg, with the remainder (10 [28.6 %]) weighing 
≥ 25 kg to < 40 kg and receiving 20 mg. There were 16 male and 19 female patients in this study; the 
median age for the overall population was 14.2 years (ranged from 6.2 to 17.9 years). No patient aged 
< 6 years was enrolled in the study. Pulmonary arterial hypertension aetiologies were predominantly 
IPAH (74.3 %) and PAH associated with persisting or recurrent pulmonary hypertension after repair 
of a congenital systemic to pulmonary shunt (25.7 %). The majority of patients were in WHO 
functional Class II (80 %).  
The primary objective of period 1 was to evaluate the efficacy of tadalafil compared with placebo in 
improving 6MWD from baseline to Week 24, as assessed in patients ≥ 6 to < 18 years of age who 
were developmentally capable of performing a 6MW test. For the primary analysis (MMRM), the LS 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mean (Standard Error; SE) change from baseline to 24 weeks in 6MWD was 60 (SE: 20.4) metres for 
tadalafil and 37 (SE: 20.8) metres for placebo.  
Additionally, in paediatric patients with PAH aged ≥ 2 to < 18 years, an exposure-response (ER) 
model was used to predict 6MWD based upon paediatric exposure following 20 or 40 mg daily doses 
estimated using a Population PK model and an established adult ER model (H6D-MC-LVGY). The 
model demonstrated similarity of response between model-predicted and the actual observed 6MWD 
in paediatric patients aged 6 to < 18 years from Study H6D-MC-LVHV.   
There were no confirmed cases of clinical worsening in either treatment group during period 1. The 
proportion of patients with improvement in WHO functional class from baseline to week 24 was 40% 
in the tadalafil group compared to 20% in the placebo group. Additionally, a positive trend of potential 
efficacy in tadalafil versus placebo group was also observed in measurements like NT-Pro-BNP 
(treatment difference: -127.4, 95 % CI, -247.05 to -7.80), echocardiographic parameters (TAPSE: 
treatment difference 0.43, 95 % CI, 0.14 to 0.71; left ventricular EI-systolic: treatment difference -
0.40, 95 % CI, -0.87 to 0.07; left ventricular EI-diastolic: treatment difference -0.17, 95 % CI, -0.43 to 
0.09; 2 patients with reported pericardial effusion from placebo group and none from tadalafil group), 
and CGI-I (improved in tadalafil 64.3 %, placebo 46.7 %).   
Long term extension data 
A total of 32 patients from the placebo-controlled study (H6D-MC-LVHV) entered the open-label 2-
year extension period (period 2) during which all patients received tadalafil at their appropriate weight 
cohort-related dose. The primary objective of period 2 was to evaluate the long-term safety of 
tadalafil.  
In total, 26 patients completed the follow-up, during which time no new safety signals were observed.  
Clinical worsening was experienced in 5 patients; 1 had new onset syncope, 2 had an increase in 
endothelin receptor antagonist dose, 1 had addition of new PAH-specific concomitant therapy and 1 
was hospitalized for PAH progression. WHO functional class was maintained or improved in the 
majority of patients at the end of period 2.  
Pharmacodynamic effects in children aged < 6 years 
Due to limited availability of pharmacodynamic measures and lack of a suitable and approved clinical 
endpoint in children younger than age 6 years, efficacy is extrapolated in this population based upon 
exposure-matching to the adult efficacious dose range.   
Dosing and efficacy of ADCIRCA has not been established for children aged less than 2 years.   
Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
A single study has been performed in paediatric patients with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) 
in which no evidence of efficacy was seen. The randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
parallel, 3-arm study of tadalafil was conducted in 331 boys aged 7-14 years with DMD receiving 
concurrent corticosteroid therapy. The study included a 48-week double-blind period where patients 
were randomised to tadalafil 0.3 mg/kg, tadalafil 0.6 mg/kg, or placebo daily. Tadalafil did not show 
efficacy in slowing the decline in ambulation as measured by the primary 6-minute walk distance 
(6MWD) endpoint: least squares (LS) mean change in 6MWD at 48 weeks was -51.0 meters (m) in the 
placebo group, compared with -64.7 m in the tadalafil 0.3 mg/kg group (p = 0.307) and -59.1 m in the 
tadalafil 0.6 mg/kg group (p = 0.538). In addition, there was no evidence of efficacy from any of the 
secondary analyses performed in this study. The overall safety results from this study were generally 
consistent with the known safety profile of tadalafil and with adverse events (AEs) expected in a 
paediatric DMD population receiving corticosteroids. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that ADCIRCA tablets and oral suspension are bioequivalent 
based upon AUC(0-∞) in the fasted state. The tmax of the oral suspension is approximately 1 hour later 
than the tablets, however the difference was not considered clinically relevant. While the tablets may 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be taken with or without food, the oral suspension should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour 
before or 2 hours after a meal. 
Absorption 
Tadalafil is readily absorbed after oral administration and the mean maximum observed plasma 
concentration (Cmax) is achieved at a median time of 4 hours after dosing. Pharmacokinetic studies 
have shown that ADCIRCA tablets and oral suspension are bioequivalent based upon AUC(0-∞).  
Absolute bioavailability of tadalafil following oral dosing has not been determined. 
The rate and extent of absorption of tadalafil film-coated tablets are not influenced by food, thus 
ADCIRCA tablets may be taken with or without food. The effect of food on the rate and extent of 
absorption with the tadalafil oral suspension has not been investigated; therefore, tadalafil suspension 
should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal. The time of dosing 
(morning versus evening after a single 10 mg administration) had no clinically relevant effects on the 
rate and extent of absorption. For children, tadalafil was dosed in clinical trials and post-marketing 
studies without regard to food with no safety concerns. 
Distribution  
The  mean  volume  of  distribution  is  approximately  77 L  at  steady  state,  indicating  that  tadalafil  is 
distributed into tissues. At therapeutic concentrations, 94 % of tadalafil in plasma is bound to proteins. 
Protein binding is not affected by impaired renal function. 
Less than 0.0005 % of the administered dose appeared in the semen of healthy subjects. 
Biotransformation 
Tadalafil  is  predominantly  metabolised  by  the  cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  3A4  isoform.  The  major 
circulating metabolite is the  methylcatechol  glucuronide.  This metabolite is  at least  13 000-fold less 
potent  than  tadalafil  for  PDE5.  Consequently,  it  is  not  expected  to  be  clinically  active  at  observed 
metabolite concentrations. 
Elimination  
The mean oral clearance for tadalafil is 3.4 L/h at steady state and the mean terminal half-life is 
16 hours in healthy subjects. Tadalafil is excreted predominantly as inactive metabolites, mainly in the 
faeces (approximately 61 % of the dose) and to a lesser extent in the urine (approximately 36 % of the 
dose).  
Linearity/non-linearity 
Over a dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg, tadalafil exposure (AUC) increases proportionally with dose in 
healthy subjects.  Between 20 mg to 40 mg, a less than proportional increase in exposure is observed.  
During tadalafil 20 mg and 40 mg once daily dosing, steady-state plasma concentrations are attained 
within 5 days, and exposure is approximately 1.5-fold of that after a single dose. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
In patients with pulmonary hypertension not receiving concomitant bosentan, the average tadalafil 
exposure at steady-state following 40 mg was 26 % higher when compared to those of healthy 
volunteers. There were no clinically relevant differences in Cmax compared to healthy volunteers. The 
results suggest a lower clearance of tadalafil in patients with pulmonary hypertension compared to 
healthy volunteers. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Healthy elderly subjects (65 years or over), had a lower oral clearance of tadalafil, resulting in 25 % 
higher exposure (AUC) relative to healthy subjects aged 19 to 45 years after a 10 mg dose. This effect 
of age is not clinically significant and does not warrant a dose adjustment. 
Renal impairment  
In clinical pharmacology studies using single-dose tadalafil (5 to 20 mg), tadalafil exposure (AUC) 
approximately doubled in subjects with mild (creatinine clearance 51 to 80 mL/min) or moderate 
(creatinine clearance 31 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment and in subjects with end-stage renal disease 
on dialysis. In haemodialysis patients, Cmax was 41 % higher than that observed in healthy subjects. 
Haemodialysis contributes negligibly to tadalafil elimination.  
Due to increased tadalafil exposure (AUC), limited clinical experience, and the lack of ability to 
influence clearance by dialysis, tadalafil is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment  
Tadalafil exposure (AUC) in subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class 
A and B) is comparable to exposure in healthy subjects when a dose of 10 mg is administered. If 
tadalafil is prescribed, a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation should be undertaken by the 
prescribing physician. There are no available data about the administration of doses higher than 10 mg 
of tadalafil to patients with hepatic impairment. 
Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) have not been studied and therefore dosing 
of tadalafil in these patients is not recommended. 
Patients with diabetes 
Tadalafil exposure (AUC) in patients with diabetes was approximately 19 % lower than the AUC 
value for healthy subjects after a 10 mg dose. This difference in exposure does not warrant a dose 
adjustment.  
Race 
Pharmacokinetic studies have included subjects and patients from different ethnic groups, and no 
differences in the typical exposure to tadalafil have been identified. No dose adjustment is warranted. 
Gender 
In healthy female and male subjects following single and multiple-doses of tadalafil, no clinically 
relevant differences in exposure were observed. No dose adjustment is warranted. 
Paediatric population 
Based on data from 36 paediatric patients with PAH aged 2 to < 18 years, body weight did not have an 
impact on the clearance of tadalafil; the AUC values in all paediatric weight groups are similar to 
those in adult patients at the same dose. Body weight was shown to be a predictor of peak exposure in 
children; due to this weight effect, the dose is 20 mg daily for paediatric patients ≥ 2 years and 
weighing < 40 kg, and the Cmax is expected to be similar to paediatric patients weighing ≥ 40 kg taking 
40 mg daily. Tmax for the tablet formulation was estimated at approximately 4 hours and was 
independent of body weight. Tadalafil half-life values were estimated to range from 13.6 to 24.2 hours 
for a range of 10 to 80 kg of body weight and did not show any clinically relevant differences.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional trials of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, and toxicity to 
reproduction. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no evidence of teratogenicity, embryotoxicity or foetotoxicity in rats or mice that received 
up to 1 000 mg/kg/day tadalafil. In a rat prenatal and postnatal development study, the no observed 
effect dose was 30 mg/kg/day. In the pregnant rat the AUC for calculated free active substance at this 
dose was approximately 18 times the human AUC at a 20 mg dose. 
There was no impairment of fertility in male and female rats. In dogs given tadalafil daily for 6 to 
12 months at doses of 25 mg/kg/day (resulting in at least a 3-fold greater exposure [range 3.7 – 18.6] 
than seen in humans given a single 20 mg dose) and above, there was regression of the seminiferous 
tubular epithelium that resulted in a decrease in spermatogenesis in some dogs. See also section 5.1.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Xanthan gum  
Microcrystalline cellulose  
Carmellose sodium 
Citric acid  
Sodium citrate  
Sodium benzoate (E211) 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Sorbitol (E420), liquid (crystallising) 
Polysorbate 80  
Sucralose  
Simethicone emulsion, 30 % (containing simethicone, methylcellulose, sorbic acid, purified water) 
Artificial cherry flavour (contains propylene glycol (E1520) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
After initial bottle opening: 110 days 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store the bottle upright. This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. For 
storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle with a peelable seal and child-resistant polypropylene (PP) 
closure containing 220 mL of oral suspension, inside a carton. 
Each carton contains one bottle, and a low-density polyethylene (LDPE) 10 mL graduated syringe 
with 1 mL graduations and an LDPE press-in-bottle adaptor. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation: The press-in-bottle adaptor (PIBA) which is supplied in the product carton should be 
inserted firmly into the neck of the bottle before first use and remain in place for the duration of the 
usage of the bottle. Shake bottle well for at least 10 seconds before each use. Shake again if the bottle 
sits longer than 15 minutes. The dosing syringe should be inserted into the PIBA and the dose 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
withdrawn from the inverted bottle aligning the mL graduation mark with the bottom of the flange. 
The cap should be replaced after each use. Rinse syringe by placing water in a cup and filling syringe 
with water and pushing the water out.  
Dose recovery of tadalafil was achieved with nasogastric (NG) tubes made of silicone and 
polyurethane at 60 cm in length and tube size of 8 Fr. To ensure adequate dosing, after administration 
of the oral suspension, the NG tube must be flushed at least 3 mL of water or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml 
(0.9 %) solution for infusion. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/476/007 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 1 October 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2013  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
Lilly S.A. 
Avda de la Industria 30 
28108 Alcobendas (Madrid) 
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
A. LABELLING 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING – FILM-COATED TABLETS  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ADCIRCA 20 mg film-coated tablets 
tadalafil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg tadalafil 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
lactose 
See leaflet for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
film-coated tablet 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C.  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/476/005-006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
ADCIRCA 20 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ADCIRCA 20 mg tablets 
tadalafil 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Lilly  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Mon.  
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING – ORAL SUSPENSION  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ADCIRCA 2 mg/mL oral suspension 
tadalafil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of oral suspension contains 2 mg of tadalafil 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
sodium benzoate (E211); sorbitol (E420), liquid (crystallising); propylene glycol (E1520). See leaflet 
for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
oral suspension. 
220 mL  
Each carton contains 1 bottle, 1 syringe and 1 press-in-bottle adaptor. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake the medicine bottle well for at least 10 seconds before each use to fully mix the suspension. 
Shake again if the bottle sits longer than 15 minutes 
Once daily. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After initial opening: use within 110 days. Open date:______ 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store the bottle upright. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/476/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
ADCIRCA 2 mg/mL 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING – ORAL SUSPENSION 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ADCIRCA 2 mg/mL oral suspension 
tadalafil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of oral suspension contains 2 mg of tadalafil.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
sodium benzoate (E211); sorbitol (E420), liquid (crystallising); propylene glycol (E1520). See leaflet 
for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral suspension  
220 mL  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake well for 10 seconds before use. 
Once daily. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After initial opening: use within 110 days. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store the bottle upright.  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/476/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
ADCIRCA 20 mg film-coated tablets 
tadalafil 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any of the side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See Section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What ADCIRCA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take ADCIRCA 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How to take ADCIRCA 
Possible side effects 
How to store ADCIRCA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What ADCIRCA is and what it is used for 
ADCIRCA contains the active substance tadalafil. 
ADCIRCA is a treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension in adults and in children aged 2 years 
and above.  
It belongs to a group of medicines called phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors which work by 
helping the blood vessels around your lungs relax, improving the flow of blood into your lungs. The 
result of this is an improved ability to do physical activity. 
2.  What you need to know before you take ADCIRCA 
Do not take ADCIRCA 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to tadalafil or any of the other ingredients (see section 6). 
if you are taking any form of nitrates such as amyl nitrite, used in the treatment of chest pain. 
ADCIRCA has been shown to increase the effects of these medicines. If you are taking any 
form of nitrate or are unsure tell your doctor. 
if you have ever had loss of vision – a condition described as “stroke of the eye” (non-arteritic 
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy - NAION). 
if you have had a heart attack in the last 3 months.  
if you have low blood pressure.  
if you are taking riociguat. This medicine is used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension (i.e., 
high blood pressure in the lungs) and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (i.e., 
high blood pressure in the lungs secondary to blood clots). PDE5 inhibitors, such as ADCIRCA, 
have been shown to increase the hypotensive effects of this medicine.  If you are taking 
riociguat or are unsure tell your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking ADCIRCA. 
Before taking the tablets, tell your doctor if you have: 
- 
- 
any heart problems other than your pulmonary hypertension 
problems with your blood pressure 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
any hereditary eye disease 
an abnormality of red blood cells (sickle cell anaemia) 
cancer of the bone marrow (multiple myeloma) 
cancer of the blood cells (leukaemia) 
any deformation of your penis, or unwanted or persistent erections lasting more than 4 hours 
a serious liver problem 
a serious kidney problem. 
If you experience sudden decrease or loss of vision or your vision is distorted, dimmed while you are 
taking ADCIRCA, stop taking ADCIRCA and contact your doctor immediately. 
Decreased or sudden hearing loss has been noted in some patients taking tadalafil. Although it is not 
known if the event is directly related to tadalafil, if you experience decreased or sudden hearing loss, 
contact your doctor immediately. 
Children and adolescents 
ADCIRCA is not recommended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension in children under 
2 years of age because it has not been studied in this age group.   
Other medicines and ADCIRCA 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Do NOT take these tablets if you are already taking nitrates. 
Some medicines may be affected by ADCIRCA or they may affect how well ADCIRCA will work. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are already taking: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
bosentan (another treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
nitrates (for chest pain) 
alpha blockers used to treat high blood pressure or prostate problems 
riociguat 
rifampicin (to treat bacterial infections) 
ketoconazole tablets (to treat fungal infections) 
ritonavir (for HIV treatment) 
tablets for erectile dysfunction (PDE5 inhibitors). 
ADCIRCA with alcohol 
Drinking alcohol may temporarily lower your blood pressure. If you have taken or are planning to take 
ADCIRCA, avoid excessive drinking (over 5 units of alcohol), since this may increase the risk of 
dizziness when standing up.  
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Do not take ADCIRCA when pregnant, unless it is 
strictly necessary and you have discussed this with your doctor. 
Do not breast-feed while taking these tablets as it is not known if the medicine passes into human 
breast milk. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine while pregnant or 
breast-feeding. 
When dogs were treated there was reduced sperm development in the testes.  A reduction in sperm 
was seen in some men. These effects are unlikely to lead to a lack of fertility. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness has been reported. Check carefully how you react to this medicine before driving or using 
any machinery. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADCIRCA contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
ADCIRCA contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take ADCIRCA 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
ADCIRCA is supplied as a 20 mg tablet. Swallow the tablet(s) whole with a drink of water. The 
tablet(s) can be taken with or without food. 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in adults 
The usual dose is two 20 mg tablets taken once a day.  You should take both tablets at the same time, 
one after the other. If you have a mild or moderate liver or kidney problem, your doctor may advise 
you to take only one 20 mg tablet per day. 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in children (age 2 years and above) weighing at least 40 kg 
The recommended dose is two 20 mg tablets taken once a day. Both tablets should be taken at the 
same time, one after the other. If you have a mild or moderate liver or kidney problem, your doctor 
may advise you to take only one 20 mg tablet per day. 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in children (age 2 years and above) weighing less than 40 kg 
The recommended dose is one 20 mg tablet taken once a day. If you have a mild or moderate liver or 
kidney problem, your doctor may advise you to take 10 mg once per day. 
Other form(s) of this medicine may be more suitable for children; ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you take more ADCIRCA than you should  
If you or anyone else takes more tablets than they should, tell your doctor or go to a hospital 
immediately, taking the medicine or pack with you. You may experience any of the side effects 
described in section 4. 
If you forget to take ADCIRCA 
Take your dose as soon as you remember if it is within 8 hours of when you should have taken your 
dose. Do NOT take a double dose to make up for the one that you have forgotten. 
If you stop taking ADCIRCA 
Do not stop taking your tablets, unless advised otherwise by your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. These 
effects are normally mild to moderate in nature. 
If you experience any of the following side effects stop using the medicine and seek medical help 
immediately: 
- 
- 
allergic reactions including skin rashes (frequency common). 
chest pain - do not use nitrates, but seek immediate medical assistance (frequency common). 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
priapism, a prolonged and possibly painful erection after taking ADCIRCA (frequency 
uncommon). If you have such an erection, which lasts continuously for more than 4 hours you 
should contact a doctor immediately. 
sudden loss of vision (rarely reported), distorted, dimmed, blurred central vision or sudden 
decrease of vision (frequency not known). 
The following side effects have been very commonly reported in patients taking ADCIRCA (may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people):  headache, flushing, nasal and sinus congestion (blocked nose), 
nausea, indigestion (including abdominal pain or discomfort), muscle aches, back pain and pain in the 
extremity (including limb discomfort) 
Other side effects have been reported: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
blurred vision, low blood pressure, nosebleed, vomiting, increased or abnormal uterine bleeding, 
swelling of the face, acid reflux, migraine, irregular heartbeat and fainting. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
seizures, passing memory loss, hives, excessive sweating, penile bleeding, presence of blood in 
semen and/or urine, high blood pressure, fast heart rate, sudden cardiac death and ringing in the 
ears. 
PDE5 inhibitors are also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in men. Some side effects have 
been rarely reported: 
- 
Partial, temporary or permanent decrease or loss of vision in one or both eyes and serious 
allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face or throat. Sudden decrease or loss of hearing 
has also been reported. 
Some side effects have been reported in men taking tadalafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.  
These events were not seen in clinical trials for pulmonary arterial hypertension and therefore 
frequency is unknown: 
- 
swelling of the eyelids, eye pain, red eyes, heart attack and stroke. 
Some additional rare side effects have been reported in men taking tadalafil that were not seen in 
clinical trials. These include: 
- 
distorted, dimmed, blurred central vision or sudden decrease of vision (frequency not known). 
Most but not all of those men reporting fast heart rate, irregular heartbeat, heart attack, stroke and 
sudden cardiac death had known heart problems before taking tadalafil. It is not possible to determine 
whether these events were related directly to tadalafil. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store ADCIRCA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What ADCIRCA contains 
The active substance is tadalafil. Each tablet contains 20 mg of tadalafil. 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: lactose monohydrate, croscarmellose sodium, hydroxypropylcellulose, microcrystalline 
cellulose, sodium laurilsulfate, magnesium stearate, see section 2 “ADCIRCA contains lactose” and 
“ADCIRCA contains sodium”. 
Film-coat: lactose monohydrate, hypromellose, triacetin, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide yellow 
(E172), iron oxide red (E172), talc. 
What ADCIRCA looks like and contents of the pack  
ADCIRCA 20 mg comes as orange film-coated tablets (tablets). They are in the shape of almonds and 
have "4467" marked on one side.  
ADCIRCA 20 mg is available in blister packs containing 28 or 56 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer: Lilly S.A., Avda. de la Industria 30, 28108 Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
Belgique/België/Belgien 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Lietuva 
Eli Lilly Lietuva 
Tel. +370 (5) 2649600 
България 
ТП "Ели Лили Недерланд" Б.В. - България 
тел.  + 359 2 491 41 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84  
Česká republika 
ELI LILLY ČR, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 234 664 111 
Danmark 
Eli Lilly Danmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 26 60 00 
Deutschland 
Lilly Deutschland GmbH 
Tel. + 49-(0) 6172 273 2222 
Eesti 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +372 6 817 280 
Magyarország 
Lilly Hungária Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 328 5100 
Malta 
Charles de Giorgio Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 25600 500 
Nederland 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tel: + 31-(0) 30 60 25 800 
Norge 
Eli Lilly Norge A.S. 
Tlf: + 47 22 88 18 00 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
ΦΑΡΜΑΣΕΡΒ-ΛΙΛΛΥ Α.Ε.Β.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 629 4600 
Österreich 
Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel: + 43-(0) 1 711 780 
España 
Lilly S.A.  
Tel: + 34-91 663 50 00 
France 
Lilly France 
Tél: +33-(0) 1 55 49 34 34 
Hrvatska 
Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2350 999 
Polska 
Eli Lilly Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 440 33 00 
Portugal 
Lilly Portugal Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: + 351-21-4126600 
România 
Eli Lilly România S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 21 4023000 
Ireland 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
Slovenija 
Eli Lilly farmacevtska družba, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 580 00 10 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39- 055 42571 
Κύπρος 
Phadisco Ltd  
Τηλ: +357 22 715000 
Slovenská republika 
Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 220 663 111 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Eli Lilly Finland Ab 
Puh/Tel: + 358-(0) 9 85 45 250 
Sverige 
Eli Lilly Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46-(0) 8 7378800 
Latvija 
Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A Pārstāvniecība Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67364000 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
ADCIRCA 2 mg/mL oral suspension 
tadalafil 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any of the side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See Section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What ADCIRCA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take ADCIRCA 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How to take ADCIRCA 
Possible side effects 
How to store ADCIRCA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What ADCIRCA is and what it is used for 
ADCIRCA contains the active substance tadalafil. 
ADCIRCA is a treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension in adults and in children aged 2 years 
and above. The oral suspension is intended for paediatric patients who are not able to swallow tablets 
and whose dose is 20 mg. 
It belongs to a group of medicines called phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors which work by 
helping the blood vessels around your lungs relax, improving the flow of blood into your lungs. The 
result of this is an improved ability to do physical activity. 
2.  What you need to know before you take ADCIRCA 
Do not take ADCIRCA 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to tadalafil or any of the other ingredients (see section 6). 
if you are taking any form of nitrates such as amyl nitrite, used in the treatment of chest pain. 
ADCIRCA has been shown to increase the effects of these medicines. If you are taking any 
form of nitrate or are unsure tell your doctor. 
if you have ever had loss of vision – a condition described as “stroke of the eye” (non-arteritic 
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy - NAION). 
if you have had a heart attack in the last 3 months.  
if you have low blood pressure.  
if you are taking riociguat. This medicine is used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension (i.e., 
high blood pressure in the lungs) and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (i.e., 
high blood pressure in the lungs secondary to blood clots). PDE5 inhibitors, such as ADCIRCA, 
have been shown to increase the hypotensive effects of this medicine.  If you are taking 
riociguat or are unsure tell your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking ADCIRCA. 
Before taking ADCIRCA, tell your doctor if you have: 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
any heart problems other than your pulmonary hypertension 
problems with your blood pressure 
any hereditary eye disease 
an abnormality of red blood cells (sickle cell anaemia) 
cancer of the bone marrow (multiple myeloma) 
cancer of the blood cells (leukaemia) 
any deformation of your penis, or unwanted or persistent erections lasting more than 4 hours 
a serious liver problem 
a serious kidney problem. 
If you experience sudden decrease or loss of vision or your vision is distorted, dimmed while you are 
taking ADCIRCA, stop taking ADCIRCA and contact your doctor immediately. 
Decreased or sudden hearing loss has been noted in some patients taking tadalafil. Although it is not 
known if the event is directly related to tadalafil, if you experience decreased or sudden hearing loss, 
contact your doctor immediately. 
Children and adolescents 
ADCIRCA is not recommended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension in children under 
2 years of age because it has not been studied in this age group.   
Other medicines and ADCIRCA 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Do NOT take this oral suspension if you are already taking nitrates. 
Some medicines may be affected by ADCIRCA or they may affect how well ADCIRCA will work. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are already taking: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
bosentan (another treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
nitrates (for chest pain) 
alpha blockers used to treat high blood pressure or prostate problems 
riociguat 
rifampicin (to treat bacterial infections) 
ketoconazole tablets (to treat fungal infections) 
ritonavir (for HIV treatment) 
tablets for erectile dysfunction (PDE5 inhibitors). 
ADCIRCA with alcohol 
Drinking alcohol may temporarily lower your blood pressure. If you have taken or are planning to take 
ADCIRCA, avoid excessive drinking (over 5 units of alcohol), since this may increase the risk of 
dizziness when standing up.  
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Do not take ADCIRCA when pregnant, unless it is 
strictly necessary and you have discussed this with your doctor. 
Do not breast-feed while taking the oral suspension as it is not known if the medicine passes into 
human breast milk. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine while 
pregnant or breast-feeding. 
When dogs were treated there was reduced sperm development in the testes.  A reduction in sperm 
was seen in some men. These effects are unlikely to lead to a lack of fertility. 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness has been reported. Check carefully how you react to this medicine before driving or using 
any machinery. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADCIRCA contains sodium benzoate (E211) 
This medicine contains 2.1 mg sodium benzoate in each mL. 
ADCIRCA contains sorbitol (E420) 
This medicine contains 110.25 mg sorbitol in each mL. Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If your doctor 
has told you that you (or your child) have an intolerance to some sugars or if you have been diagnosed 
with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare genetic disorder in which a person cannot break 
down fructose, talk to your doctor before you (or your child) take or receive this medicine.  
ADCIRCA contains propylene glycol (E1520) 
This medicine contains 3.1 mg propylene glycol in each mL. 
ADCIRCA contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg)per 1 mL, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.  
3. 
How to take ADCIRCA 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
ADCIRCA oral suspension is supplied in a bottle. This is part of a pack which also includes a dosing 
device containing a 10 mL oral syringe marked in 1 mL increments and a press-in-bottle adaptor. Read 
the instructions for use booklet, which is included in the carton for instructions on how to use the 
adaptor and the syringe.  
The recommended dose is 10mL of oral suspension once daily for children aged 2years and above and 
weighing less than 40kg. 
If you have a mild or moderate liver or kidney problem, your doctor may prescribe a lower dose. 
The oral suspension should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a 
meal. 
If you take more ADCIRCA than you should  
If you or anyone else takes more suspension than they should, tell your doctor or go to a hospital 
immediately, taking the medicine bottle with you. You may experience any of the side effects 
described in section 4. 
If you forget to take ADCIRCA 
Take your dose as soon as you remember if it is within 8 hours of when you should have taken your 
dose. Do NOT take a double dose to make up for the one that you have forgotten. 
If you stop taking ADCIRCA 
Do not stop taking your medicine, unless advised otherwise by your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. These 
effects are normally mild to moderate in nature. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you experience any of the following side effects stop using the medicine and seek medical help 
immediately: 
- 
- 
- 
allergic reactions including skin rashes (frequency common). 
chest pain - do not use nitrates, but seek immediate medical assistance (frequency common). 
priapism, a prolonged and possibly painful erection after taking ADCIRCA (frequency 
uncommon). If you have such an erection, which lasts continuously for more than 4 hours you 
should contact a doctor immediately. 
sudden loss of vision (rarely reported), distorted, dimmed, blurred central vision or sudden 
decrease of vision (frequency not known). 
- 
The following side effects have been very commonly reported in patients taking ADCIRCA (may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people):  headache, flushing, nasal and sinus congestion (blocked nose), 
nausea, indigestion (including abdominal pain or discomfort), muscle aches, back pain and pain in the 
extremity (including limb discomfort) 
Other side effects have been reported: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
blurred vision, low blood pressure, nosebleed, vomiting, increased or abnormal uterine bleeding, 
swelling of the face, acid reflux, migraine, irregular heartbeat and fainting. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
seizures, passing memory loss, hives, excessive sweating, penile bleeding, presence of blood in 
semen and/or urine, high blood pressure, fast heart rate, sudden cardiac death and ringing in the 
ears. 
PDE5 inhibitors are also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in men. Some side effects have 
been rarely reported: 
- 
Partial, temporary or permanent decrease or loss of vision in one or both eyes and serious 
allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face or throat. Sudden decrease or loss of hearing 
has also been reported. 
Some side effects have been reported in men taking tadalafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.  
These events were not seen in clinical trials for pulmonary arterial hypertension and therefore 
frequency is unknown: 
- 
swelling of the eyelids, eye pain, red eyes, heart attack and stroke. 
Some additional rare side effects have been reported in men taking tadalafil that were not seen in 
clinical trials. These include: 
- 
distorted, dimmed, blurred central vision or sudden decrease of vision (frequency not known). 
Most but not all of those men reporting fast heart rate, irregular heartbeat, heart attack, stroke and 
sudden cardiac death had known heart problems before taking tadalafil. It is not possible to determine 
whether these events were related directly to tadalafil. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store ADCIRCA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and bottle after ‘EXP’. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use the medicine if the bottle has been open for more than 110 days. This medicine does not 
require any special storage conditions.  
Store in the original package. Store the bottle upright.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What ADCIRCA contains 
The active substance is tadalafil. Each mL contains 2 mg of tadalafil. 
The other ingredients are xanthan gum, microcrystalline cellulose, carmellose sodium, citric acid, 
sodium citrate, sodium benzoate (E211), silica (colloidal anhydrous), sorbitol (E420) (liquid 
crystallising), polysorbate 80, sucralose, simethicone emulsion (simethicone, methylcellulose, sorbic 
acid, purified water), artificial cherry flavour (contains propylene glycol (E1520) and water. See 
section 2 “ADCIRCA contains” for more information about sorbitol, sodium benzoate, propylene 
glycol and sodium. 
What ADCIRCA looks like and contents of the pack  
ADCIRCA 2 mg/mL is a white to practically white oral suspension.  
ADCIRCA is packaged in a bottle containing 220 mL of oral suspension with a peelable seal and 
child-resistant closure, inside a carton. Each carton contains one bottle, a 10 mL graduated syringe 
with 1 mL graduations and a press-in-bottle adaptor. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer: Lilly S.A., Avda. de la Industria 30, 28108 Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
Belgique/België/Belgien 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Lietuva 
Eli Lilly Lietuva 
Tel. +370 (5) 2649600 
България 
ТП "Ели Лили Недерланд" Б.В. - България 
тел.  + 359 2 491 41 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84  
Česká republika 
ELI LILLY ČR, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 234 664 111 
Danmark 
Eli Lilly Danmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 26 60 00 
Magyarország 
Lilly Hungária Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 328 5100 
Malta 
Charles de Giorgio Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 25600 500 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Lilly Deutschland GmbH 
Tel. + 49-(0) 6172 273 2222 
Eesti 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +372 6 817 280 
Ελλάδα 
ΦΑΡΜΑΣΕΡΒ-ΛΙΛΛΥ Α.Ε.Β.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 629 4600 
España 
Lilly S.A.  
Tel: + 34-91 663 50 00 
France 
Lilly France 
Tél: +33-(0) 1 55 49 34 34 
Hrvatska 
Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2350 999 
Nederland 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tel: + 31-(0) 30 60 25 800 
Norge 
Eli Lilly Norge A.S. 
Tlf: + 47 22 88 18 00 
Österreich 
Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel: + 43-(0) 1 711 780 
Polska 
Eli Lilly Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 440 33 00 
Portugal 
Lilly Portugal Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: + 351-21-4126600 
România 
Eli Lilly România S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 21 4023000 
Ireland 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
Slovenija 
Eli Lilly farmacevtska družba, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 580 00 10 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39- 055 42571 
Κύπρος 
Phadisco Ltd  
Τηλ: +357 22 715000 
Slovenská republika 
Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 220 663 111 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Eli Lilly Finland Ab 
Puh/Tel: + 358-(0) 9 85 45 250 
Sverige 
Eli Lilly Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46-(0) 8 7378800 
Latvija 
Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A Pārstāvniecība Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67364000 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
ADCIRCA 2mg/mL oral suspension 
tadalafil 
Before you use ADCIRCA oral suspension, read and carefully follow all the step-by-step 
instructions. 
This “Instructions for Use” contains information on how to use ADCIRCA oral suspension. 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE USING ADCIRCA ORAL 
SUSPENSION 
 The adaptor represents a CHOKING HAZARD – small parts. Do not attach the oral 
syringe to the adaptor until the adaptor is fully inserted into the bottle. It must be inserted 
completely into the bottle for safe use. To be used only under adult supervision.  
Do not let your child take the medicine without your help. 
Do not use if bottle, seal, adaptor, or oral syringe is damaged. 
Do not use the medicine if the bottle has been open for more than 110 days. See the Disposal section 
to find out what to do with the medicine you don’t use. 
Record date of first opening of bottle here: _________________________ 
Do not wash the oral syringe with soap or detergent. Please see steps 4b - 4c for cleaning instructions. 
Do not put the oral syringe in the dishwasher. The syringe may not work as well as it should. 
Use a new oral syringe after 30 days.  
It is not recommended to mix the medicine with food or water. It may affect the taste or prevent the 
receiving full dose. 
Give ADCIRCA oral suspension only using the oral syringe supplied with the medicine. 
The medicine is white. Air gaps may be difficult to see in the oral syringe when preparing the 
dose and may result in an incorrect dose. 
In case of overdose, contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. Quick medical 
attention is important for adults and children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parts of the ADCIRCA oral suspension administration system 
Child-resistant 
 cap 
Adaptor 
Lift and Peel 
Seal 
Medicine 
Syringe  
tip 
Flange 
Plunger 
Oral 
syringe 
Medicine 
bottle 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 1:  PREPARE THE BOTTLE  
1a 
1b 
1c 
1d 
1e 
Gather the medicine bottle and adaptor. 
Wash your hands with soap and water. 
Remove the cap from the bottle. 
Firmly push the cap down while twisting it counter clockwise.  
Remove the cap from the bottle. 
Prior to first use only, remove the lift and peel seal. 
Make sure the seal is completely removed. 
Prior to the first use only, push the adaptor all the way 
down into the opening of the bottle.  
 The adaptor represents a CHOKING HAZARD – 
small parts. It must be inserted completely into the 
bottle for safe use. 
Do not attach the oral syringe to the adaptor until the adaptor is 
fully inserted into the bottle. 
Do not twist the adaptor. 
Screw the cap back on the bottle tightly. 
The cap will fit over the adaptor. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 2:  PREPARE THE DOSE 
2a 
2b 
2c 
2d 
2e 
Gather the medicine bottle with the adaptor inserted and 
oral syringe. 
Make sure the cap is on tightly. 
Wash your hands with soap and water. 
Shake the bottle. 
Shake the medicine bottle well for at least 10 seconds before 
each use to fully mix the suspension. 
Shake again if the bottle sits longer than 15 minutes. 
Remove the cap from the bottle. 
Firmly insert the oral syringe into the opening of the 
adaptor. 
Make sure that the syringe tip is fully inside the adaptor and the 
plunger is pushed all the way to the syringe tip. 
Turn the bottle with the oral syringe upside down while 
holding the syringe in place.  
Make sure that the bottle is upside down. 
Make sure the oral syringe stays completely inserted in the 
adaptor.  
63 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2f 
Draw the dose. 
Slowly pull the plunger down until the mL graduation 
mark is visible below the bottom of the flange for the dose 
prescribed for your child.  
The graduation mark is located on the plunger of the oral 
syringe. 
Make sure the top edge of the graduation mark is aligned to the 
bottom of the flange. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2g 
Turn the bottle upright and check closely for air gaps in the 
oral syringe. 
An air gap may result in an incorrect dose. 
The medicine is white, the same colour as the oral syringe. Air 
gaps may be difficult to see. 
If there is an air gap, empty the medicine back into the 
bottle and repeat steps 2e through 2g. 
2h 
Remove the oral syringe from the bottle.  
Do not touch the plunger. 
STEP 3:  GIVE THE DOSE 
Put the oral syringe into a corner of your child’s mouth. 
Tell your child not to bite the syringe. 
Do not squirt the medicine into the back of the throat. 
Slowly and gently push down the plunger to the end of the 
syringe so that all of the medicine is in your child’s mouth. 
Make sure your child swallows all of the medicine.  
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 4:  CLEAN UP 
4a 
Screw the cap back on the bottle tightly. 
Do not remove the adaptor. The cap will fit over it. 
4b 
4c 
Fill the oral syringe with clean water. 
Do not wash the oral syringe with soap or detergent. 
Do not remove the plunger from the oral syringe.  
Fill a cup with clean water, insert the oral syringe, and pull the 
plunger up to fill the syringe with water. 
Push the plunger down and squirt the water into the cup or 
into the sink. 
Make sure to remove the water from the oral syringe. 
Shake excess water from the syringe and dry it with a paper 
towel.  
Store the oral syringe and bottle in the original carton. 
Wash your hands with soap and water. 
DISPOSAL OF MEDICINE 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household water. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
DISPOSAL OF SYRINGE 
Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse how to dispose of your syringe. 
HOW TO STORE YOUR MEDICINE  
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions 
Store the bottle standing upright. 
Keep the bottle and oral syringe out of sight and reach of children. 
COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS 
Q.  What if I see air gaps in my oral syringe? 
A.  Do not give the medicine. Air gaps may result in an incorrect dose. Empty the medicine back into 
the bottle and repeat steps 2e through 2g. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q.  What if there is too much medicine in the oral syringe? 
A.  Keep the syringe tip in the bottle. Hold the bottle upright. Push the plunger down until the correct 
dose is in the oral syringe. 
Q.  What if there is not enough medicine in the oral syringe? 
A.  Keep the syringe tip in the bottle. Hold the bottle upside down. Pull the plunger down until the 
correct dose is in the oral syringe. 
Q.  What if I get some medicine in my eye or in my child’s eye? 
A.  Flush the eye immediately with water and call your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. As soon as 
possible, wash hands and surfaces that may have come in contact with the medicine. 
Q.  How do I travel with this medicine? 
A.  Make sure you have enough medicine for the entire trip. Take the oral syringe and medicine in its 
original container. Store the medicine in a safe place upright. 
Q.  Can I mix this medicine with food or water before I give it to my child? 
A. 
It is not recommended to mix this medicine with food or water. This can affect the way the 
medicine tastes or prevent a full dose. You can give your child a glass of water to drink after he or 
she takes the entire dose of medicine. 
Q.  What if my child spits up the medicine? 
A.  Do not give additional medicine to your child. Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
Q.  What if my child does not swallow all of the medicine? 
A.  Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Q.  What if my child swallows too much medicine? 
A. 
Immediately contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
FOR QUESTIONS OR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT ADCIRCA ORAL SUSPENSION 
For questions or more information about ADCIRCA 
•  Call your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
•  Call Lilly  
Read the full package leaflet for ADCIRCA inside this box to learn more about your medicine. 
For questions or more information about ADCIRCA oral suspension 
If you have any questions or problems with your oral suspension syringe, contact Lilly or your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse for assistance. Report all MEDICAL DEVICE COMPLAINTS or 
UNDESIRABLE SIDE EFFECTS, including SUSPECTED SERIOUS INCIDENTS, to Lilly. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS  
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S)  
ANNEX IV  
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for tadalafil, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows: 
In view of available data on serous central chorioretinopathy from the literature and spontaneous 
reports including in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-
challenge and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal relationship 
between tadalafil and central serous chorioretinopathy is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC 
concluded that the product information of products containing tadalafil should be amended 
accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for tadalafil the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing tadalafil is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
69 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
