Summary  of Risk Management  Plan for Adempas 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Adempas. The RMP details 
important risks of Adempas, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about the risks and uncertainties (missing information) associated with 
Adempas. 
Adempas’ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Adempas should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Adempas should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Adempas RMP. 
I.  The medicine  and what it is used for 
Adempas is authorised for (see SmPC for the full indication): 
•  Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) 
Adempas is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with World Health 
Organisation (WHO) Functional Class (FC) II-III with 
• 
inoperable CTEPH, 
•  persistent or recurrent CTEPH after surgical treatment to improve exercise 
capacity. 
•  Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adults 
•  Adempas, as monotherapy or in combination with endothelin receptor 
antagonists, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with PAH with 
WHO FC II to III to improve exercise capacity. 
•  Efficacy has been shown in a PAH population including aetiologies of 
idiopathic or heritable PAH or PAH associated with connective tissue 
disease. 
•  Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in children and adolescents 
•  Adempas is indicated for the treatment of PAH in paediatric patients 
aged <18 years of age and body weight ≥50 kg with WHO Functional Class 
(FC) II to III in combination with endothelin receptor antagonists. 
Adempas contains riociguat as the active substance and it is given by oral administration.  
Further information about the evaluation of Adempas’ benefits can be found in the Adempas’ 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/adempas#assessment-history-section 
II. Risks associated  with the medicine  and activities  to minimise  or further 
characterise  the risks 
Important risks of Adempas, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Adempas’ risks, are outlined below. 
Routine risk minimization measures for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A 
List of important  risks  and missing  information 
Important risks are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of the medicinal product. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table Part VI-1: Important identified risks, important potential risks, and important missing 
information associated with Adempas 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Bone safety in patients <18 years old 
Missing information 
None 
II.B 
Summary  of important  risks 
Table Part VI-2 : Important potential risk: Bone safety in patients <18 years old 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
The inclusion of bone safety in patients <18 years 
old as an important potential risk was based on 
pre-clinical data. The available clinical evidence 
 
 
was considered too limited to conclude on this 
potential safety concern. The long-term extension 
phase of the clinical study is still ongoing. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
None 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
PATENT CHILD Long Term Extension study 
II.C 
Post-authorisation  development  plan 
II.C.1 
Studies  which are conditions  of the marketing  authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Adempas. 
II.C.2 
Other  studies  in post-authorisation  development  plan 
PATENT CHILD Phase III Study – Long term Extension (SN 15681) 
Purpose of the study: 
PATENT-CHILD was a 24-participant trial designed to evaluate PK, safety, and tolerability 
with exploratory efficacy endpoints over a time period of 24 weeks (main phase). The LTE 
phase is ongoing. The primary safety outcome of this study was incidence of TEAEs and 
TESAEs as well as discontinuations from the study. Also, part of the primary safety outcome 
was the analysis of the change of bone age from baseline to the Week  24 compared to 
chronological age, and bone morphology. This was done by means of X-ray of the left hand 
and wrist. 
PATENT CHILD LTE: 
Bone age and bone morphology assessment is continued during the LTE at 12  months 
intervals until growth velocity has plateaued and growth plates are closed. In addition, any 
bone changes as assessed by the investigator are to be reported as Adverse Events of Special 
Interest (AESI). 
 
