EMA/269801/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000777 
EPAR summary for the public 
Adenuric 
febuxostat 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Adenuric. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Adenuric.  
What is Adenuric? 
Adenuric is a medicine that contains the active substance febuxostat. It is available as tablets (80 and 
120 mg). 
What is Adenuric used for? 
Adenuric is used to treat adults with long-term hyperuricaemia (high levels of uric acid or ‘urate’ in the 
blood). Hyperuricaemia can lead to urate crystals forming and building up in the joints and the 
kidneys. When this happens in the joints and causes pain, it is known as ‘gout’. Adenuric is used in 
patients who already have signs of a build-up of crystals, including gouty arthritis (pain and 
inflammation in the joints) or tophi (‘stones’, larger deposits of urate crystals that can cause joint and 
bone damage).  
Adenuric is also used to treat and prevent high levels of uric acid in the blood in adults with blood 
cancers who are on chemotherapy and at risk of tumour lysis syndrome (a complication due to the 
breakdown of cancer cells causing a sudden rise of uric acid in the blood which can cause damage to 
the kidneys). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Adenuric used? 
For the treatment of long-term hyperuricaemia, the recommended dose of Adenuric is 80 mg once a 
day. This usually reduces blood uric acid levels within two weeks, but the dose can be increased to 120 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
mg once a day if blood uric acid levels remain high (above 6 mg per decilitre) after two to four weeks. 
Attacks of gout can still occur during the first few months of treatment, so it is recommended that 
patients take other medicines to prevent attacks of gout for at least the first six months of treatment 
with Adenuric. Adenuric treatment should not be stopped if an attack of gout occurs. 
For the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in patients undergoing chemotherapy, the 
recommended dose is 120 mg once a day. Adenuric should be started two days before chemotherapy 
and continued for at least 7 days. 
How does Adenuric work? 
The active substance in Adenuric, febuxostat, reduces the formation of uric acid. It works by blocking 
an enzyme called xanthine oxidase, which is needed to make uric acid in the body. By reducing the 
production of uric acid, Adenuric can reduce levels of uric acid in the blood and keep them low, 
stopping crystals from building up. This can reduce the symptoms of gout. Keeping uric acid levels low 
for long enough can also shrink tophi. In patients who are on chemotherapy a reduction in uric acid 
levels is expected to reduce the risk of tumour lysis syndrome. 
How has Adenuric been studied? 
For the treatment of hyperuricaemia and gout, Adenuric has been studied in two main studies involving 
a total of 1,834 patients. The first study, carried out in 1,072 patients, compared three doses of 
Adenuric (80, 120 and 240 mg once a day) with placebo (a dummy treatment) and allopurinol 
(another medicine used to treat hyperuricaemia). The study lasted six months. The second study 
compared two doses of Adenuric (80 and 120 mg once a day) with allopurinol over one year in 762 
patients. 
In both studies, allopurinol was used at a dose of 300 mg once a day, except in patients with kidney 
problems, who took 100 mg. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose 
final three blood uric acid levels were below 6 mg/dl. Blood uric acid levels were measured every 
month. 
For the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in patients undergoing chemotherapy, Adenuric 
has been studied in one main study involving 346 adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for blood 
cancer. Patients received either Adenuric or allopurinol for 7 to 9 days. The main measure of 
effectiveness was based on their blood uric acid levels. 
What benefit has Adenuric shown during the studies? 
Adenuric was more effective than allopurinol and placebo in treating hyperuricaemia by reducing blood 
uric acid levels. In the first study, 48% of the patients taking 80 mg Adenuric once a day (126 out of 
262) and 65% of the patients taking 120 mg once a day (175 out of 269) had levels of uric acid below 
6 mg/dl in the final three measurements. This was compared with 22% of the patients taking 
allopurinol (60 out of 268) and none of the 134 patients taking placebo. Similar results were seen in 
the second study after a year. 
In patients with blood cancer who were undergoing chemotherapy, Adenuric was as effective as 
allopurinol in controlling blood levels of uric acid: in 98.3 % of patients (170 out of 173) on Adenuric 
blood levels of uric acid normalised compared with 96 % (166 out of 173) of patients on allopurinol. 
Adenuric  
EMA/269801/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Adenuric? 
The most commonly reported side effects with Adenuric are gout flare-ups, abnormal liver test results, 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), headache, rash and oedema (swelling). These side effects were 
mostly mild or moderate in severity. Rare serious hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions to Adenuric have 
occurred post-marketing.  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Adenuric, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Adenuric been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Adenuric was more effective than allopurinol at lowering blood uric acid 
levels including in patients undergoing chemotherapy , but that it could carry a greater risk of side 
effects affecting the heart and blood vessels. The Committee decided that Adenuric’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Adenuric? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Adenuric is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Adenuric, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Adenuric 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Adenuric on 21 April 2008. 
The full EPAR for Adenuric can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Adenuric, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015.  
Adenuric  
EMA/269801/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
