21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/166940/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Adenuric 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: febuxostat 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000777/PSUV/0033 
Period covered by the PSUR: 21 April 2012 – 20 April 2013 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
In view of data presented in the PSUR regarding hepatic events and serious hypersensitivity reactions 
associated with febuxostat treatment, the PRAC considers that changes to the product information are 
warranted. 
During the current review period, one of the most commonly reported serious events was Drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS). There is evidence for a cross-sensitivity 
with allopurinol. Given that hypersensitivity reactions with febuxostat can manifest in many different 
ways, the inclusion of DRESS is warranted. 
Considering the severity as well as the prognosis of TEN and the fact that the prompt withdrawal of the 
treatment is crucial, the PRAC considers that the update of the product information is necessary. 
One of the most common serious adverse events was drug induced liver injury and this is not explicitly 
mentioned in the SmPC.  
Therefore, changes to the product information are warranted as follows: 
Section 4.4: 
The existing warning on serious allergic/hypersensitivity reactions should be updated to include 
information on TEN and DRESS (see Annex I). 
Section 4.8:  
The addition of liver injury* (rare) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms* (rare) is 
endorsed (*Adverse reactions coming from post-marketing experience), see Annex I. 
Additionally, the MAH should include following adverse reaction in section 4.8: 
 TEN  ( frequency to be estimated by MAH) 
- 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Adenuric, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance febuxostat is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
 
 
 
