European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
                   Doc Ref : EMEA/258531/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Adenuric 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
febuxostat 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/777 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00 Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 47 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 49 
© EMEA 2008 
2/51 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Ipsen  Manufacturing  Ireland  Ltd.  submitted  on  23  August  2006  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Adenuric,  through  the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 15 December 2005.  
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - 
complete and independent application.  
The application submitted is a complete dossier composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions 
where urate deposition has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty 
arthritis). 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
 Rapporteur: Heribert Pittner 
Co-Rapporteur: Bengt Ljungberg 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 23 August 2006. 
The procedure started on 27 September 2006.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 December 
2006. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 
December 2006.  
During  the  meeting  on  15-17  January  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 January 2007. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 8 August 
2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 21 September 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting on 15-18 October 2007, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing. 
•  Written explanations were provided by the Applicant on 17 January 2008. 
• 
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  February  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Adenuric on 21 February 2008. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  19 
February 2008. 
© EMEA 2008 
3/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
The Applicant seeks marketing authorization for Adenuric 80 mg and 120 mg tablets which contain 
febuxostat, a non-purine inhibitor of xanthine oxidase, for the treatment of hyperuricaemia in patients 
with chronic gout. At present the only commercial available xanthine oxidase inhibitor is allopurinol; 
its effects on hyperuricaemia and gout are known for more than 40 years.  
Febuxostat has been developed by Teijin Pharma Limited (Teijin, Japan) and TAP Pharmaceutical 
Products Inc. (TAP, USA). 
Gout is a disorder caused by deposition of urate crystals in joints and other tissues. There are four 
clinical stages: (i) asymptomatic hyperuricaemia; (ii) acute gouty arthritis; (iii) intercritical gout 
(intervals between acute attacks); and (iv) chronic tophaceous gout.  
Hyperuricaemia is defined as a plasma or serum urate concentration >7 mg/dl (>420 µmol/l) and is 
present in approximately 5% of the population. The serum uric acid (sUA) is the single most important 
risk factor for developing gout. Sustained hyperuricaemia is a risk factor for acute gouty arthritis, 
tophaceous gout and uric acid nephrolithiasis, but most patients with hyperuricaemia will never have 
an attack of gout and no treatment is required. In the Normative Aging Study, the 5-year cumulative 
risk of gout development in subjects whose sUA level was >7 mg/dl or >10 mg/dl was 0.6% and 
30.5%, respectively (Campion et al., 1987; Schlesinger, 2004). On the other hand it was reported that 
patients with sUA ≥10 mg/dl and a first gout attack had 100% recurrent attacks of gout, whilst those 
with sUA ≤6 mg/dl had a 20% annual incidence of recurrence (Shoji et al., 2004; Schumacher, 2005).  
Treatment of chronic gout requires long-standing reduction in serum uric acid below the saturation 
level. The urate-lowering drugs used to treat chronic gout are the uricosuric drugs (such as probenecid, 
benzbromarone, sulfinpyrazone, micronized fenofibrate and losartan), the uricostatic drugs (xanthine 
oxidase inhibitors such as allopurinol) and the urolytic drugs (urate oxidase).  
Allopurinol, a pyrazolopyrimidine and analogue of hypoxanthine, is widely regarded as the urate-
lowering drug of choice (Rundles et al., 1966; Wortmann, 1998; Schlesinger, 2004) and is the only 
xanthine oxidase inhibitor on the market in European countries. As a xanthine oxidase inhibitor it 
lowers the oxidation of hypoxanthine to xanthine and xanthine to uric acid thereby reducing serum 
uric acid and uric acid excretion and increases the concentration of the hypoxanthine and xanthine in 
the blood and urine. Allopurinol is effective when the hyperuricaemia is due to overproduction or 
underexcretion of uric acid.  
Because of the long half-life of the active metabolite oxipurinol (14-28 h), allopurinol can be given 
once daily. It can be given as a single dose of 300 mg/day and increased to 800 mg/day if needed 
(Schlesinger, 2004; Wortmann, 2005), but up-titration has been recommended . In some patients a 
dose of 100 mg/day to 200 mg/day is adequate (Emmerson, 1996). Because serious adverse reactions 
to allopurinol have been related to a decreased creatinine clearance rate and prolonged half-life of 
oxipurinol (14-28 h) it was proposed by Hande et al. (1984) to adjust the allopurinol dose according to 
the rate of creatinine clearance in order to reduce the risk of severe toxicity, which is now common 
practice. It has been said that some patients with gout and renal failure, treated with allopurinol may 
not sufficiently benefit from low allopurinol doses (Vazquez-Mellado et al., 2001; Bardin, 2004). 
Although allopurinol is rather well tolerated, about 5% of patients are unable to tolerate allopurinol 
because of side effects (Schlesinger, 2004). Rare life-threatening adverse events, such as the 
allopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome (AHS), have been observed.   
The uricosuric drugs such as probenecid are the urate lowering drugs of choice in allopurinol-allergic 
patients, and underexcretors with normal renal function and no history of urolithiasis (Schlesinger, 
2004). Uricosuric drugs are ineffective in overproduction of uric acid and contraindicated in patients 
with nephrolithiasis (Wortmann, 1998). The availability of probenecid is limited in some European 
countries.  
© EMEA 2008 
4/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benzbromarone, a potent uricosuric drug, is hepatotoxic and several cases of hepatic failure with 
subsequent death of the patients in liver transplantation have been reported, leading to withdrawal 
from the market. Its availability in European countries appears very limited, it may be available in 
fixed combination with allopurinol. 
Losartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, used for treatment of hypertension, has uricosuric 
properties due to its binding to the URAT1 exchanger in the proximal tubule, thus inhibiting urate re-
absorption in the kidney. Its use in patients with hypertension and gout has been recommended 
(Bardin, 2003), but losartan is currently not registered for the treatment of gout. 
Fenofibrate, used for the treatment of lipid disorders, lowers serum urate by increasing urate clearance, 
in healthy volunteers and diabetic and non-diabetic patients with hyperlipidemia (Hepburn et al., 
2003). Its use in patients with hyperlipidemia and gout has been recommended (Bardin, 2004), but 
fenofibrate is currently not registered for the treatment of gout. 
Urate oxidase is an enzyme that converts uric acid to allantoin and is lacking in humans. Rasburicase 
(Fasturtec®), a recombinant form of urate oxidase, that catalyses enzymatic oxidation of uric acid to 
allantoin has been recently (2001) approved by a centralized procedure. It is indicated for “treatment 
and prophylaxis of acute hyperuricemiahyperuricaemia, in order to prevent acute renal failure in 
patients with haematological malignancy with a high tumour burden and at risk of a rapid tumour lysis 
or shrinkage at initiation of chemotherapy”. Long-term urate oxidase treatment for chronic gout has 
not been evaluated. 
The proposed indication is ‘Treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition 
has already occurred (including a history or presence of tophus, and/or gouty arthritis)’. The 
recommended oral dose is 80 mg  once daily (QD). If serum uric acid is > 6 mg/dl (357 µmol/l) after 
2-4 weeks, 120 mg (QD) may be considered. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Adenuric  is  presented  as  immediate  release  film-coated  tablets  containing  80  mg  and  120  mg  of 
febuxostat as the active substance, for oral administration. The excipients used in this formulation are 
lactose  monohydrate,  hydroxypropylcellulose,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  croscarmellose  sodium, 
magnesium stearate and silica. 
Adenuric is packed in clear PVC/Aclar/Aluminium blisters containing either 28 or 84 tablets. 
Active Substance  
The active substance is a new chemical entity designated as 2-[3-cyano-4-(2-methylpropoxy) phenyl]-
4-methylthiazole-5-carboxylic acid. The structure of febuxostat is shown in Figure 1. 
© EMEA 2008 
5/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Chemical structure of febuxostat 
The Active Substance Master File (ASMF) procedure was followed for the active substance. 
Febuxostat  is  white  crystalline  powder  practically  insoluble  in  water,  sparingly  soluble  in  ethanol, 
soluble in dimethylsulfoxide, and freely soluble in dimethylformamide. The solubility of febuxostat in 
a  wide  range  of  pH  buffer  solutions  shows  that  its  solubility  is  low  in  acid  and  increases  with  the 
increase in pH from neutral to high pH. Febuxostat is a non-hygroscopic compound  
•  Manufacture 
Febuxostat is synthesised in six steps from one starting material including crystallisation and milling. 
The  structure  of  febuxostat  was  confirmed  by  elemental  analysis,  Mass  spectroscopy,  UV,  Infrared 
and NMR spectroscopy.  
•  Specification 
The active substance specifications include tests for description, identification (IR and HPLC), assay 
(HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  polymorphism  (X-ray  diffraction),  loss  on  drying,  residue  on  ignition, 
heavy metals, residual solvents (methanol), particle size (laser light scattering) and microbial purity. 
All  analytical  procedures  have  been  adequately  validated  according  to  the  ICH  Q2A  guidance.  The 
assay and purity tests by HPLC have been validated for both linearity and precision.  
Batch analysis data was provided on 16 batches manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site for 
the  active  substance.  Additional  batches  used  in  the  non  clinical  and  clinical  studies  have  been 
manufactured  at  an  alternative  manufacturing  site  manufactured  according  to  the  proposed  routes  of 
synthesis. The results from all batches confirm the consistency and uniformity of the active substance. 
•  Stability 
Three pilot scale batches were stored at 25oC/60% RH (long term storage conditions) and  40oC/75% 
RH (accelerated conditions) for 48 months. Additional stability studies were performed on 3 batches, stored 
at 25oC/60% RH and 40oC/75% RH up to 24 month. Three commercial scale batches have been stored at 
30oC/65%  RH  and  40oC/75%  for  six  months.  All  batches  have  been  manufactured  using  the  proposed 
commercial method. 
Stress testing at a temperature range between 50-70oC in various container closure systems showed no 
changes in appearance assay, impurities content or degradation product and crystalline form.  
The stability studies showed that the active substance is stable and confirm the proposed re-test period. 
© EMEA 2008 
6/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Based on the solubility, stability and permeability characteristics of febuxostat an immediate release 
oral dosage form was developed. 
Well  known  excipients  were  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  formulation.  The  compatibility  with  the 
active substance was investigated by mixing the excipients with febuxostat and storing the samples in 
open  vials  at  40oC  and  60oC,  and  exposing  the  samples  to  light.  The  results  showed  the  active 
substance to be compatible with the excipients. 
Hydroxypropylcellulose  is  used  as  a  binder,  lactose  monohydrate  and  microcrystalline  cellulose  are 
used as fillers, croscarmellose sodium is used as disintegrant, magnesium stearate as a lubricant and 
silica as ant-adherent. All the excipients used in the formulation of febuxostat tablets comply with the 
Ph. Eur. A film-coating system was used consisting of polyvinyl alcohol, titanium dioxide, macrogol, 
talc and iron oxide yellow.  
Changes were made to the formulation during the development and therefore bioequivalence studies 
were  performed  to  confirm  that  the  formulations  used  in  the  clinical  trials  are  equivalent  to  the 
proposed  formulation  for  commercialisation.  In  addition,  discriminatory  in  vitro  studies  (dissolution 
studies) also showed that the release profile of the proposed formulation is comparable to that used in 
the pivotal clinical trials.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  excipients  in  the  febuxostat  blend  are  of  animal  origin,  exception  being  the  lactose 
monohydrate which is obtained from bovine milk sourced from healthy animals in the same conditions 
as milk collected for human consumption. TSE compliance statement from the supplier of the lactose 
monohydrate  used  in  the  manufacture  of  febuxostat  tablets  was  provided.  Magnesium  stearate  is  of 
vegetable origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  for  febuxostat  tablets  uses  standard  pharmaceutical  equipment  and  unit 
operations.  
The  manufacture  of  the  finished  product  comprises  (1)  blending  of  the  active  substance  with  the 
excipients (2) wet granulation of the blend (3) drying of the granulation (4) sizing (5) addition of final 
excipients and blend (6) lubrication (7) tabletting (8) coating (9) packaging. 
Process validation was carried out on three batches of each strength (80 mg and 120 mg) of febuxostat 
tablets.  The  results  showed  that  the  manufacturing  process  consistently  produces  tablets  of  the 
required quality. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  methods  for  appearance,  identification  (HPLC  and  IR),  average 
mass, assay (HPLC), content uniformity (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), dissolution (UV) and 
microbial  purity.  The  HPLC  methods  have  been  validated  for  specificity,  accuracy,  reproducibility, 
linearity,  robustness  and  stability  of  the  solutions. The  IR  method  was  validated  for  specificity.  The 
dissolution  test  method  was  fully  validated  for  specificity,  linearity,  filter  adsorption,  accuracy, 
repeatability, intermediate precision and reproducibility. All other methods are described in the PhEur 
and therefore validation was deemed to be unnecessary.  
© EMEA 2008 
7/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Three production scale batches of each strength of the proposed febuxostat formulation for 
commercialisation have been stored for up to 12 months at 25oC/60% RH and 30oC/65% RH (long 
term storage conditions) and for 6 months at 40oC/75% RH (accelerated conditions). The results 
showed that febuxostat tablets are stable as evidenced by the little or no change to the critical quality 
attributes of physical inspection, assay and dissolution during the stability studies.  There were no 
degradation products observed above the ICH reporting threshold of 0.1%. There was no change in 
crystal form after storage under long-term or accelerated conditions. No trends or patterns of change 
were observed in any parameter, except loss on drying. Moisture levels increased over time but did not 
affect other quality attributes. No out of specification results occurred during the stability studies. The 
formulation was found not to be sensitive to light, as there was no change in any of the parameters 
tested for tablets exposed to ICH Q1B photostability conditions (including the exposed unprotected 
sample). 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions,  as  stated  in  the 
SPC, are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substances and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A  comprehensive  non-clinical  development  program  was  performed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics  (including  drug  metabolism)  and  the  toxicology  in  different  animal  species.  The 
submitted non-clinical data are mainly from Teijin (Japan). The non-clinical toxicological studies were 
performed in accordance with GLP.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
The primary pharmacodynamic effect of the new xanthine oxidase (XO) inhibitor febuxostat has been 
demonstrated by in vitro inhibition of bovine milk, mouse and rat liver xanthine oxidase as well as by 
in vivo inhibition of the enzyme in rats and male chimpanzees.  
In vitro experiments: 
Steady  state  kinetics  measurements  of  inhibition  bovine  milk  XO,  rat  and  human  liver  XO  by 
febuxostat  showed  mixed  type  inhibition  with  IC50,  Ki  and  Ki'  values  in  the  sub-nanomolar  range. 
Inhibition of purified bovine milk XO by febuxostat (Ki 0.6 nM) and oxidative metabolites and 67M-
1[R] (0.6 nM), 67M-1 [S] (0.8 nM), 67M-2 (1.6 nM), 67M-3 (2.0 nM) and 67M-4 (1.6 nM) showed a 
similar or only a slightly lower potency of the metabolites than the parent drug. The contribution of 
metabolites  to  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  effect  of  febuxostat  is  therefore  to  be  expected  (see 
clinical aspects).  
In vivo experiments (rat, mouse, chimpanzee):  
In rodents (rat, mouse) uric acid is further metabolised to allantoin by uricase, whilst in chimpanzees 
similar as in men, purines are excreted mainly as uric acid. Single doses of febuxostat in normal rats 
reduced  urinary  excretion  of  uric  acid/allantoin  and  increased  the  urinary  excretion  of  xanthine  in  a 
dose-dependent manner. 
© EMEA 2008 
8/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rat: Inhibition of xanthine oxidase by febuxostat in the hyperuricaemic rat model resulted in a dose-
dependent  reduction  of  serum  uric  acid  (ED50  for  febuxostat  was  1.6  mg/kg  vs.  9.1  mg/kg  for 
allopurinol  at  uricase  inhibition  by  oxonate  over  6  days  [Horiuchi  at  al.,  1999]  indicating  that 
febuxostat is 5-6 times more potent than allopurinol. In another study in the hyperuricaemic rat model 
the ED50 for the sUA lowering effect was 1.5 mg/kg for febuxostat and 5.0 mg/kg for allopurinol at 
uricase inhibition by oxonate for 1 h prior drug application and the ED50 for the combined effect of 
decrease  in  serum  urinary  uric  acid  and  allantoin  was  2.1  mg/kg  for  febuxostat  and  6.9  mg/kg  for 
allopurinol [Osada et al., 1993], indicating febuxostat is about 3 times more potent than allopurinol.   
Chimpanzees:  In  chimpanzees’  inhibition  of  xanthine  oxidase  by  febuxostat  resulted  in  an  apparent 
dose-dependent reduction of serum uric acid at 2, 5 and 12.5 mg/kg febuxostat p.o. The ED50 for the 
reduction of serum uric acid for febuxostat and allopurinol on Day 3 (approximate steady state) were 2 
mg/kg  and  6  mg/kg,  respectively,  indicating  that  febuxostat  is  about  3-times  more  potent  than 
allopurinol in chimpanzees. 
Comparison of the effect of febuxostat and allopurinol (done at a single dose level of 5 mg/kg p.o.) 
showed a reduction of serum uric acid as well as a decrease in urinary uric acid excretion, an increase 
of serum xanthine and urine xanthine excretion for both drugs.  
In vivo studies with febuxostat metabolites were not performed in animals. 
Generally, the studies demonstrate the primary pharmacodynamic effects of febuxostat.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The anti-inflammatory effect of febuxostat and allopurinol was studied in vitro (effect on leukotriene 
B4 production in rat basophilic leukaemia cells) and in vivo (effect on serum cytokine levels induced 
by  lipopolysacharide  in  rats).  The  postulated  anti-inflammatory  effect  of  febuxostat  has  not  been 
sufficiently characterized.  
A  study  was  performed  in  dogs  with  established  pacing-induced  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF)  to 
examine whether acute administration of febuxostat could enhance left ventricular (LV) function and 
improve  myocardial  high  energy  phosphate  content  and  coronary  endothelial  function.  Febuxostat 
treatment  in  this  CHF  dog  model  revealed  no  significant  effect  on  coronary  blood  flow  induced  by 
acetylcholine or sodium nitroprusside.  
The study on the heart failure model after coronary ligation in rabbits described a smaller reduction of 
the shortening fraction and ejection fraction than allopurinol, and a lesser degree/progression of heart 
failure after treatment with febuxostat compared to vehicle or allopurinol application. The mechanism 
of this febuxostat effect is unclear and the relevance for humans is not established.   
At concentrations up to 100 µM, febuxostat had no significant effects on the activities of the following 
enzymes  of  purine  metabolism  (guanine  deaminase  (GD),  hypoxanthine-guanine  phosphoribosyl-
transferase  (HGPRT),  purine  nucleoside  phosphorylase  (PNP)  and  pyrimidine  metabolism  (orotate 
phosphoribosyltransferase  (OPRT)  and  orotidine-5V-monophosphate  decarboxylase  (OMPDC), 
[Takano  et  al.,  2005],  which  is  in  line  with  the  Applicant’s  claim  that  febuxostat  is  a  selective  XO 
inhibitor.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The in vitro safety pharmacology program consisted in evaluations of the febuxostat effects on hERG 
(K+) channel, cardiac Ca2+ channel, cardiac Na+ channel and Purkinje fibre action potential. 
In  a  human  cardiac  Na+  channel  expressed  in  mammalian  cells  febuxostat  showed  inhibition  of  the 
inward Na+ current with a calculated IC50 value of 75 µM (about 470 times the free Cmax (maximum 
plasma concentration)  in man following a 120 mg dose. 
© EMEA 2008 
9/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  effects  of  febuxostat  on  Ca2+  channel  currents  were  studied  in  guinea  pig  cardiac  myocytes.. 
Febuxostat blocked gpCaCh currents in a concentration-dependent manner, with an average block of 
4,  12,  14  and  37%  at  5,  50,  100  and  500  µM,  respectively.  The  estimated  IC50  value  was  733  µM 
(about  4600  times  the  free  Cmax  in  man  following  a  120  mg  oral  dose).  This  concentration  range 
which  inhibited  ICa  is  therefore  unlikely  to  be  reached  in  humans.  The  positive  control  nifedipine 
significantly blocked gpCaCh current at 0.1 µM. 
In a cloned hERG channel expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells or Chinese hamster 
ovary  (CHO)  cells  febuxostat  had  an  agonist  effect  which  was  voltage  dependent.  Two  types  of 
response were observed, an initial maximal effect (0-3 min.) followed by a lower sustained effect. The 
EC50 values were 0.003 and 0.07 µM, respectively. Thus, the agonistic effect on the hERG activation 
occurred  at  concentrations  reached  at  therapeutic  doses  in  humans.  The  effect  was  highly  use-
dependent,  implying  a  more  pronounced  effect  at  high  heart  rates.  The  clinical  relevance  of  this 
finding is unclear. Febuxostat as a hERG agonist did not shorten normal APD or the sotalol-induced 
prolonged  action  potential  in  isolated  Purkinje  fibres  at  1  µM,  however,  it  selectively  shortened  the 
prolonged APD induced by an agonist for the late sodium current.  
The  free  febuxostat  concentration  at  a  120  mg  dose  in  man,  used  in  the  submitted  files  for  the 
estimation of safety margins was about 0.16 µM assuming about 1% free (unbound) febuxostat.   
Febuxostat  had  no  effect  on  platelet  (human)  aggregation  by  ADP,  activated  partial  thromboplastin 
time and prothrombin time at doses of 3, 10, 30 or 100 µM (100 µM is about 600 times the free drug 
Cmax at 120 mg human dose). 
The  in  vivo  pharmacological  safety  program  included  a  battery  of  conventional  tests  which  covered 
CNS,  cardiovascular,  respiratory,  renal,  gastrointestinal  system,  platelet  function,  blood  coagulation 
and the potential for causing hypersensitivity. In most in vivo studies, febuxostat was administered by 
oral dosing up to 100 mg/kg, which is about 40-fold greater than the intended maximum human dose 
(120 mg p.o., about 2 mg/kg at 60 kg BW). Pharmacokinetic data were only collected in one safety 
study in conscious dogs.  
CNS effects: 
Febuxostat caused a slight decrease in locomotor activity at 100 mg/kg p.o. in the Irwin behavioural 
test and at 30 mg/kg p.o. in another test in conscious mice.  
Renal effects: 
Febuxostat doses of 10 mg/kg p.o. or 30 mg/kg p.o. did not alter urine volume or electrolyte excretion 
in Wistar rats, but doses of 100 mg/kg increased urinary volume, urinary K+ and Cl- and decreased 
Na+/K+ ratio. All tested doses caused a dose-dependent increase in xanthine excretion. These effects 
have  been  related  to  the  formation  of  xanthine  crystals/calculi  in  kidney  tubules.  Renal  xanthine 
calculus formation in Wistar rats after treatment with febuxostat for 28 days was absent at doses of 1 
and 3 mg/kg and observed in only 1/30 animals at 10 mg/kg, however present in all animals (30/30) at 
30  mg/kg  and  100  mg/kg  (29/29  animals).  Renal  xanthine  calculus  formation  after  treatment  with 
allopurinol was absent at doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg and observed in only 2/30 animals at 30 mg/kg and 
28/29  animals  at  100  mg/kg.  The  relative  ratio  febuxostat/allopurinol  for  urinary  xanthine  excretion 
was 4.34, for the incidence of crystal/calculus formation 3.3 and the relative ratio of lowering plasma 
uric acid was from 3 to 6. Thus, the potency for crystal/calculus formation was closely related to the 
xanthine excretion in both drugs. 
Xanthine calculus formation was also observed at lower febuxostat doses in mice and rats in long-term 
studies and judged as exaggerated pharmacodynamic effect, which may lead to kidney damage and to 
the formation of bladder tumours.    
Cardiovascular effects: 
In  anaesthetized  dogs  (10,  100  mg/kg  intraduodenal)  febuxostat  had  no  effect  on  respiration  rate, 
blood pressure, heart rate, left ventricular pressure, left ventricular contractility, femoral blood flow or 
ECG.  
© EMEA 2008 
10/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conscious,  radiotelemetry  instrumented  Beagle  dogs,  febuxostat  was  applied  at  5  mg/kg/d  or  50 
mg/kg/d p.o. over 14 days, four single incidents of acute decreases in blood pressure out of a total of 
168 dosing events were observed in 2/6 dogs at 50 mg/kg (both on Day 1 of dosing) and 2/6 dogs at 5 
mg/kg (on Day 6 or 7) and lasted approximately 1.3 to 2 hours. Because of the sporadic nature of the 
events and lack of a clear dose-response relationship the Applicant assumed that these effects were not 
drug related. There was no significant effect on heart rate, respiration rate or ECG. Pharmacokinetics, 
performed on days 2 and 14, showed average Cmax values on Day 14 of 1.73 and 38.12 µg/ml for the 
5 and 50 mg/kg doses, respectively. The Cmax for the low dose can be approximated by a 50 mg p.o. 
dose  in  humans.  The  Cmax  for  the  high  dose  was  about  8  times  the  Cmax  (4.98  µg/ml)  in  man 
following application of 120 mg p.o.  
Febuxostat treatment in a CHF dog model (pacing-induced heart failure) revealed no significant effect 
on coronary blood flow induced by acetylcholine or sodium nitroprusside. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Two pharmacodynamic drug-drug interaction studies, one with nifedipine and one with glibenclamide, 
were performed.  
Overall, in vitro safety studies showed an agonist (stimulatory) effect on the IKr channel in cultured 
hERG  expressing  mammalian  cells  at  concentrations  achievable  in  clinical  use.  Stratification  of  QT 
intervals  of  the  sub-study  of  clinical  Phase  III  study  (APEX)  according  to  heart  rate  showed  that 
febuxostat  does  not  significantly  reduce  the  QT  interval  at  the  recommended  doses  of  80  and  120 
mg/d. 
No significant cardiovascular or CNS effects were reported.   
Pharmacokinetics 
ADME-studies for febuxostat have been investigated in mice, rats and dogs. The studies were carried 
out primarily with oral administration, which is the proposed clinical route of administration. 
Toxicokinetic studies were carried out for all repeat-dose toxicity studies, the carcinogenicity studies, 
one reproductive study and one in vivo genotoxic study in mice, rats, rabbits and dogs. 
•  Absorption  
Febuxostat  was  rapidly  absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  following  oral  administration  of 
[14C]febuxostat to mice (tmax 0.5-2 h), rats and dogs (tmax 0.25-0.5 hours). Plasma total radioactivity 
AUC  values  were  generally  6-7-fold  higher  in  mice  and  rats  than  those  in  dogs  given  an  equivalent 
dose. Febuxostat AUC (area under the concentration time curve) values were nearly 9 times higher in 
rats  than  in  dogs.  The  terminal  half-life  of  febuxostat  generally  ranged  from  2-4  hours  in  mice  and 
appeared to be slightly longer in rats and dogs.  
Based  on  comparisons  between  mean  AUC  values  after  p.o.  and  i.v.  administration,  approximately 
57%,  85%  and  45%  of  the  total  radioactive  dose  administered  orally  to  mice,  rats  and  dogs, 
respectively,  was  absorbed.  The  absolute  bioavailability  of  febuxostat  was  determined  to  be 
approximately  78%  in  rats  and  48%  in  dogs.  Absorption  in  mice  showed  a  gender  difference,  with 
approximately  2-4-fold  higher  AUC  values  in  female  mice  than  in  males  and  in  female  dogs  (up  to 
2.4-fold) compared to males following single and multiple doses. 
In the single dose studies in rats at 1, 3 and 10 mg/mg p.o. the AUCt and AUC∞ values for febuxostat 
increased only roughly in a dose proportional manner; the absorption at 1 mg/kg was less than dose 
proportional.  In  the  same  study  there  was  no  apparent  time  dependence  of  total  radioactivity  or 
febuxostat judged from the AUC values at Day 1 and Day 14 at the 1 mg/kg dose. 
In  the  toxicokinetic  studies  in  rats  (using  higher  doses  of  febuxostat)  a  clear  dose-  and  time-
dependence was apparent. In the repeated dose study in dogs at 5 and 50 mg/kg p.o. there was a clear 
dose-dependence.  The  toxicokinetic  studies  in  dogs  showed  a  clear  dose-  and  time-dependence..  
© EMEA 2008 
11/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption  was  decreased  36-48%  in  rats  and  55%  in  dogs  when  febuxostat  was  administered  with 
food. 
•  Distribution 
In vitro and ex vivo plasma protein binding studies with [14C]febuxostat showed that the drug is highly 
bound in rat plasma (≥98.8%).  
The  distribution  of  total  radioactivity  in  male  Sprague-Dawley  rats  given  a  single  dose  of  1  mg/kg 
[14C]febuxostat  p.o.  was  studied  by  autoradiography  and  quantitative  tissue  distribution  (sampling 
time:  1,  8,  24,  48,  96  168  h).  In  a  second  study  a  single  dose  and  daily  oral  doses  of  1  mg/kg 
[14C]febuxostat for 14 days; sampling time: 1, 8, 24, 48, 96, 168 h) was studied by quantitative tissue 
distribution. The studies showed that febuxostat is widely distributed to most tissues and organs.  
At  24  h  after  the  14th  dosing  the  radioactivity  concentrations  in  the  liver,  large  intestine,  adrenal 
gland, skin, small intestine and spleen were 16.7-7.2 times that in the plasma (15.56 ng eq./ml). The 
radioactivity concentrations in the lung, kidney, stomach, thyroid gland, and bone marrow were 5.9-
4.2  times  that  in  the  plasma.  The  radioactivity  concentrations  in  the  mandibular  lymph  node, 
mandibular  gland,  brown  fat,  urinary  bladder,  mesenteric  lymph  node,  pancreas,  heart,  thymus, 
epididymis, fat, testis and trachea were 3.8-1.3 times that in the plasma.  
The half-lives of radioactivity in the plasma, thyroid gland and blood were 19-28 h. The half-lives of 
radioactivity in the large  intestine,  stomach,  thymus,  adrenal  gland,  pancreas,  bone  marrow,  heart, 
mandibular  gland,  mesenteric  lymph  node,  testis,  smal1  intestine,  mandibular  lymph  node,  lung, 
spleen,  brown  fat,  skeleta1  muscle,  epididymis  and  urinary  bladder  were  47-75  h.  The  half-lives  of 
radioactivity in the kidney, trachea, fat, eyeball, skin, and liver were 90-110 h. 
The single or multiple dose applications showed that the radioactivity at 24 h was considerably higher 
than in plasma not only in the gastrointestinal tract and metabolizing and excreting organs of liver and 
kidney, but also in several other tissues.  
The distribution ratio (whole blood/plasma concentration) of radioactivity into red blood cells ranged 
from 0.58-0.68 at timepoints ranging from 1 to 24 hours post-dose in rats, and from 0.28-0.46 in dogs 
within the first hour after dose administration. 
Placental  and  lacteal  transfer  was  investigated  in  pregnant  and  lactating  Sprague-Dawley  rats.  One 
mg/kg  [14C]  febuxostat  p.o.  was  given  on  the  19th  day  of  pregnancy  or  2  weeks  post-partum. 
Febuxostat  crosses  the  placenta.  The  transfer  of  radioactivity  to  the  foetus  was  estimated  to  be 
0.0085% of the dose administered to the dams. The transfer of radioactivity to milk was high at 1-4 h 
(milk to plasma ratio of 7.6), thereafter the concentrations in milk and plasma decreased in a parallel 
manner. 
•  Metabolism 
Several  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  were  conducted  to  elucidate  the  metabolism  of  febuxostat  in 
laboratory  animals.  Results  from  these  studies  demonstrated  that  febuxostat  is  metabolized  by  both 
oxidative and glucuronidation pathways. 
Following administration of febuxostat to mice, rats and dogs, metabolic profiles in plasma and urine 
appeared to be qualitatively similar between the species. Febuxostat was the major component found 
in  the  plasma  of  all  species  studied.  Several  metabolites  were  present  at  relatively  lower 
concentrations in all species. In urine, the identified metabolites common between mice, rats and dogs 
included the hydroxylated febuxostat metabolites 67M-1 and 67M-2, metabolite 67M-3 (desbutylated 
febuxostat), and metabolite 67M-4 (dicarboxylic acid of febuxostat). Additional metabolites identified 
in mouse and/or rat urine samples include the sulphate conjugates of metabolites 67M-1 and 67M-3, 
and glucuronide conjugates of 67M-3 and parent drug. The major metabolite in bile of mice and rats 
was febuxostat glucuronide. It is of note, that 67M-3, the desbutylated metabolite isolated in vivo in 
rats and dogs, was not found in plasma of humans.  
•  Excretion 
© EMEA 2008 
12/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  either  i.v.  or  p.o.  administration  of  [14C]febuxostat  to  mice,  rats  or  dogs,  faecal  excretion 
was  generally  the  main  route  of  elimination  (especially  in  dogs),  accounting  for  approximately  53-
57%,  47-78%  and  85-90%,  of  the  radioactive  dose,  respectively.  The  faecal  radioactivity  largely 
derived  from  bile  and  contained  both  unchanged  febuxostat  and  glucuronides  and  other  metabolites 
depending on the species. 
An average of approximately 18-48% of the total [14C]febuxostat dose i.v. or p.o. administered to bile 
duct cannulated male and female mice was recovered in the bile within 24 hours post-dose. Similarly, 
52-57% of the total radioactivity administered to male rats was recovered in the bile within 48 hours 
after  administration  of  an  intravenous  or  oral  dose  of  [14C]febuxostat.  Urinary  recovery  of  total 
radioactivity ranged  from  9-48%  in  the  rodent  species  and  less  than  10%  in dogs.  Following  an  i.v. 
dose  of  [14C]febuxostat  to  chimpanzees,  recovery  of  radioactivity  in  the  urine  was  49%  and  that  in 
faeces 24%.  
Excretion and disposition in man were broadly similar to those in animals (see clinical aspects). 
Drug Interactions 
No pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction studies were performed in animals.  
Toxicology 
In the Applicant’s toxicology program febuxostat was given orally to mice, rats and dogs. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose toxicity studies with orally administered febuxostat were performed in rats and dogs.   
In rats the approximate lethal dose for febuxostat was within 300 and 600 mg/kg p.o. The highest non-
lethal dose for febuxostat in rats was 300 mg/kg p.o. (M + F). Death occurred between 6 h after drug 
application  and  4  days.  In  the  600  mg/kg  group,  4/5  males  and  3/5  females  died  during  the  first  24 
hours  after  administration.  1/5  male  died  on  day  4  after  administration.  Clinical  signs  observed  in 
diseased animals were a decreased locomotor activity after 5-25 minutes, cyanosis, lying on its side or 
belly,  decreased  body  temperature.  Autopsy:  Ulcer-like  black  mottles  with  dosing  material  like 
substances were found in stomach and discoloration (haemorrhage) in the duodenum and ileum.  
In Beagle-dogs no death was observed at doses up to 2000 mg/kg p.o., e.g. the highest non-lethal dose 
for  febuxostat  p.o.  was  2000  mg/kg.  Clinical  signs  were  severe  vomiting  at  all  dose  levels,  prone 
position,  lateral  position,  depression,  decrease  in  locomotor  activity,  ptosis,  decreased  body  surface 
temperature,  salivation,  loose  stools.  Beginning  complete  recovery  of  clinical  signs  was  observed  at 
post administration day 1. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  with  orally  administered  febuxostat  were  performed  in  mice,  rats,  dogs 
and  chimpanzees.  Two  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  with  febuxostat  p.o.  were  performed  in  mice  (4 
weeks:  0,  62.5,  125,  250,  500,  1000  mg/kg/d;  13  weeks:  0,  3,  12,  24,  48  mg/kg/d),  four  in  rats  (5 
weeks: 0, 3, 15, 75, 150 mg/kg/d; 13 weeks: 0, 3, 12, 24, 36 or 0, 48, 75, 150 mg/kg/d; 6 month: 0, 3, 
12, 48 mg/kg/d); two in Beagle-dogs (13 weeks: 0, 5, 20, 80 mg/kg/d; 52 weeks: 0, 5, 15, 45 mg/kg/d). 
one in chimpanzees (only for 3 days). 
The major target organs identified in the repeat-dose toxicity studies were the kidney, urinary bladder, 
thyroid gland, liver and haematopoietic system. 
Urinary tract (kidney, bladder): 
The  toxicology  studies  revealed  dose-  and  duration  dependent  effects  on  the  kidney  and  bladder  in 
mice, rats and dogs. Biochemical and histopathological changes showed kidney damage, stones and/or 
bladder calculi and mucosal epithelial hyperplasia in all three species.  
Main changes in the kidney were: Mouse: Cloudy white urine (M: ≥12 mg/kg/d; F: ≥3 mg/kg/d [13 
wk]); dilated kidney tubules and interstitial fibrosis (M: 48 mg/kg/d [13 wk]). Rat: Round granules in 
urine;  basophilic  deposits  in  collecting  tubules  and  papillary  ducts,  variable  degrees  of  interstitial 
© EMEA 2008 
13/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation and/or fibrosis and basement membrane changes (≥15 mg/kg/d [5 wk], ≥12 mg/kg/d [13 
wk, 26 wk). Renal tubular epithelial necrosis (M, F: ≥48 mg/kg [13 wk].  Increased BUN (blood urea 
nitrogen), creatinine (≥75 mg/kg/d [5 wk, 13 wk]; (M: 48 mg/kg [26 wk]. Dog: Round granules (urine 
analysis), kidney calculi, renal pelvic calculi and hyperplasia of pelvic mucosa (≥20mg/kg/d [13 wk]; 
≥15mg/kg/d [52 wk]); increased BUN and creatinine (45 mg/kg/d [52 wk]). 
Main changes in the bladder were: Mouse: Stones in the bladder (M: ≥24mg/kg/d; F: ≥12mg/kg/d [13 
wk]); transitional cell hyperplasia (M, F: ≥24 mg/kg/d [13 wk]). Rat: Calculi and epithelial hyperplasia 
(≥15 mg/kg/d [5 wk], ≥12 mg/kg/d [13 wk, 26 wk]), epithelial hyperplasia (≥75 mg/kg/d [5 wk], 48 
mg/kg/d  [26  wk]).    Dog:  Bladder  calculi  and  mucosal  epithelial  hyperplasia  (≥20mg/kg/d  [13  wk], 
45mg/kg/d [52 wk]).  
The pathological effects in the kidneys and bladder were considered to be consequences of xanthine 
crystal deposition and subsequent damage to the kidneys and bladder and the lining urothelium, which 
is  acceptable.  The  xanthine  crystals  in  rodents  have  been  identified  using  two  different  analytical 
techniques (thin-layer chromatography and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy), however calculi 
in the urinary tract of dogs have not been identified as xanthine crystals. As outlined by the Applicant, 
the  morphology  of  the  granular  deposits  in  dogs  and  site  of  occurrence  plus  understanding  of  the 
action of febuxostat on purine metabolism made it reasonable to assume that they consist of xanthine, 
and  that  they  represent  the  same  pattern  of  effect  as  in  rodents.  Although  these  arguments  appear 
reasonable, an experimental verification should have been performed. 
The NOAEL values determined in the toxicity studies, which were based on kidney toxicity, were 3 
mg/kg/d in mice and rats and 5 mg/kg/d in dogs. In the 26-week rat study the exposure at NOAEL was 
12.8 µg.h/ml (male) and 16.3 µg.h/ml (female) giving an AUCanimal/AUChuman ratio of 0.8 and 1.2, 
and  in  the  52-week  dog  study  the  exposure  at  NOAEL  was  4.0  µg.h/ml  (male)  and  5.0  µg.h/ml 
(female) giving an AUCanimal/AUChuman ratio of 0.25 and 0.31 (using the human mean AUC value 
of 16.0 µg.h/ml reported from single or multiple 120 mg QD (once daily) in Phase I studies, n=64). 
Thus, using the usual calculation of safety margins (multiples of exposure in animals at the NOAEL 
level  vs.  exposure  at  therapeutic  doses  in  humans)  it  is  evident  that  no  reliable  safety  margins  are 
apparent from the animal toxicology studies.  
The Applicant concluded that XO inhibition in humans at therapeutic doses does not lead to the same 
consequence because there is a much higher relative production of xanthine in the laboratory species 
and a higher relative urine output in man. Urinary xanthine in the rat at NOAEL (3 mg/kg) was 56.3 
mg/dl and urinary xanthine in human urine was at 11.8 mg/dl at 120 mg febuxostat and 18.5 mg/dl at 
240 mg febuxostat.  
The solubility of xanthine in human urine was reported to be 13 mg/dl at 37°C, pH 7.0 (Klinenberg et 
al., 1965, Seegmüller, 1968). The solubility of xanthine in human serum was reported to be 10 mg/dl 
at 37°C, pH 7.4 and 5 mg/dl at 37°C, pH 5.0 (Seegmüller, 1968). 
Thyroid: 
Thyroid hyperplasia was observed in rats, but not in mice and dogs. With febuxostat a decrease in T3, 
T4 and hyperplasia of follicular epithelium was observed in the 5-week rat study only at high doses 
(75 and 150 mg/kg/d in male and females, respectively). In the 6-month rat study it occurred in males 
only  during  the  recovery  period  at  48  mg/kg  (at  an  about  14-fold  higher  exposure  than  the  total 
exposure  at  120  mg/day  in  humans).  The  exposure  at  the  NOAEL  for  thyroid  changes  (males,  12 
mg/kg/d,  52  µg.h/ml)  is  about  3-times  higher  than  total  exposure  in  humans  at  120  mg/kg/d.  The 
mechanism of the anti-thyroid effect is unknown. It has been discussed that thyroid hormones in rats 
are easier metabolized because they are only weakly bound to albumin and that rat thyroid follicular 
cells  are  specifically  sensitive  to  drugs  with  anti-thyroid  action  and  prone  to  hyperplasia.  A  special 
study in rats demonstrated that thyroid alterations caused by high doses of febuxostat (150 mg/kg/d) 
are prevented by concomitant application of T4.  
Clinical findings on thyroid function are described below (see clinical aspects).  
Liver: 
In rats an increase in ALP and γ-GTP (GGT) was observed in a 13-week rat study (M: ≥15 mg/kg), 
and an increase γ-GTP in the 26-week rat study (M: 48 mg/kg/d). Bilirubin in the 26-month rat study 
© EMEA 2008 
14/51 
 
 
 
 
was  increased,  but  within  the  upper  normal  range.  Liver  weights,  transaminases  and  histopathology 
were unchanged up to 24 mg/kg/d in the 2-year carcinogenicity rat study.  
Increased  ALP  and  ALT  levels  in  dogs  were  only  observed  in  the  52-week  dog  toxicity  study  in 
moribund  sacrificed  animals  (M,  F:  48  mg/kg).  In  both  species  no  histological  liver  changes  were 
observed. Increased ALT and AST levels were observed in a 3-day study in monkeys, which received 
in  addition  ketamine  for  sedation.  It  was  argued  that  a  possibly  ketamine  induced  effect  cannot  be 
clearly distinguished from test article induced effects. 
A  mechanism  for  the  increase  in  liver  enzymes  in  rats  at  high  febuxostat  doses  has  not  been 
established. The Applicant calculated that the exposure level in male rats (at 48 mg/kg/d, AUC 238.5 
µg.h/ml) was approximately 14-fold higher than the total exposure in humans at a single 120 mg oral 
dose, but the exposure at NOAEL for liver changes in male rats was only about 3-times higher than 
the human exposure at 120 mg/day.  
Clinical findings on liver function test are described below (see clinical aspects).  
Haematology: 
Haematology findings in rats were: Decreased erythrocyte count, haemoglobin level and haematocrit; 
increased WBC counts and segmented neutrophil percentage; decreased lymphocyte percentage (≥75 
mg/kg/d [5 wk], ≥12 mg/kg/d [13 wk], 48 mg/kg/d [26 wk]. 
Haematology  findings  in  dogs  were:  Moribund  sacrificed  animals:  Increased  erythrocyte  count, 
haemoglobin  level  and  haematocrit,  %  neutrophils,  %  monocytes;  decreased  %  lymphocytes; 
prolonged aPPT (45 mg/kg/d [52 wk]). Animals sacrificed at schedule: Decreased erythrocyte count, 
haemoglobin level and haematocrit; increased reticulocytes, increased platelet count (45 mg/kg/d [52 
wk]). 
The Applicant discussed that increases in WBC count could be due to an inflammatory response to the 
ongoing kidney injury in these animals and that a decrease in erythropoietin release (expected due to 
extensive injury to the kidney caused by xanthine crystals and/or calculi) could have contributed to the 
alterations  in  red  blood  cell  parameters.  Both  in  rats  and  in  dogs  the  haematological  changes  were 
observed at dose levels that also caused kidney injury. 
The  exposure  at  the  target  organ  effects  was  14-18-fold  (rat)  and  33-fold  (dog)  higher  than  that  in 
humans, however, the exposure at the apparent NOAEL for the RBC decrease in rats was only about 
3-5-fold higher than that in humans at 120 mg/d febuxostat and the exposure at the apparent NOAEL 
for the RBC decrease and platelets increase in dogs was only about 2-fold higher than that in humans 
at 120 mg/d febuxostat.  
Clinical findings on haematology are described below (see clinical aspects).  
Comment on safety margins 
According to the Applicant, NOAEL values were based on kidney toxicity. Exposure in the toxicology 
studies  is  generally  considerably  higher  than  in  humans  at  therapeutic  doses.  However,  from  the 
calculated  multiples  of  exposure  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  at  the  NOAEL  levels  vs.  exposure  at 
therapeutic doses in humans (AUCanimal/AUChuman) it is evident that no reliable safety margins are 
apparent from the animal toxicology studies (based on kidney toxicity). The exposure in dogs at the 
NOAEL level is markedly lower than in humans at the recommended 120 mg QD dose. The exposure 
in  mice  and  rats  at  the  NOAEL  level  is  lower  (male  mice)  or  in  the  range  (female  mice,  male  and 
female rat) of the human exposure at 120 mg febuxostat. There was a slight gender difference.  
The exposure at NOAEL for thyroid changes in male  rats (AUC  52 µg.h/ml), liver changes in male 
rats (AUC 52 µg.h/ml), haematological changes in the rat (M: AUC 52.9 µg.h/ml; F: 86.2 µg.h/ml) or 
dogs  (AUC  38.7  µg.h/ml)  are  only  about  3-4  fold  greater  than  the  exposure  in  humans  at  120  mg 
febuxostat QD (17.2 µg.h/ml). 
Reversibility of febuxostat effects 
The  reversibility  of  kidney  and  bladder  alterations  caused  by  xanthine  calculi/crystal  deposition 
observed at the end of the recovery periods in rats (4 weeks in the 5-week rat study) and end of the 
recovery period in dogs (6 or 13 weeks in the 13-week and 52-week studies, respectively) was very 
low or absent.  
At the end of the 4-week recovery period in the 5-week rat study changes including increased water 
consumption, decreased erythrocyte count, haemoglobin level and haematocrit, increased Na excretion 
© EMEA 2008 
15/51 
 
 
 
 
in  the  urinalysis,  increased  serum  phosphate  levels,  and  renal  tubular  regenerative  changes,  cellular 
infiltration,  and  interstitial  fibrosis  remained  approximately  the  same  as  at  the  end  of  administration 
period.  
At the end of the 13-week recovery period in the 52-week dog study calculi or granules were observed 
in  the  kidneys.  Dilatation  of  the  pelvis,  hyperplasia  of  the  pelvic  mucosa,  cellular  infiltration  in  the 
pelvic  submucosa,  cellular  infiltration  in  the  interstitium,  fibrosis  of  the  interstitium,  atrophy  of  the 
renal  tubules,  dilatation  of  the  renal  tubules,  a  basophilic  change  in  the  tubular  epithelium  and 
dilatation of Bowman’s space were also observed at the completion of the recovery period. 
•  Genotoxicity 
A  standard  series  of  conventional  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests  was  performed  to  test  for  a  possible 
genotoxicity of febuxostat including 5 in vitro mutagenicity tests (Ames test and E. coli assay, gene 
mutation  assay  in  mouse  lymphoma  cells,  chromosomal  aberration  test  in  Chinese  hamster  lung 
fibroblasts and human peripheral blood lymphocytes) and 3 in vivo mutagenicity tests (Micronucleus 
test  in  bone  marrow  of  BDF1  mice  and  Wistar  rats,  unscheduled  DNA  synthesis  in  F344  rat 
hepatocytes).  In  one  in  vitro  chromosomal  aberration  test  in  cultured  Chinese  hamster  cells  a 
chromosomal aberration was observed in the absence or presence of S9 mix at high doses (1.336 and 2 
mM). It is agreed that these changes are related to the cytotoxicity, since they were only found at high 
doses  in  the  presence  of  moderate  to  severe  cytotoxicity.  All  other  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests  gave 
negative  results.  The  in  vivo  chromosomal  aberration  study  in  Wistar  rats  was  performed  at  a  very 
high  exposure,  more  than  100-fold  of  the  human  exposure  at  120  mg  febuxostat  QD.  Febuxostat 
appears to have no genotoxic potential.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Two  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed;  one  in  mice  and  one  in  rats  to  estimate  the  potential 
carcinogenicity of febuxostat.  
A  104-week  carcinogenicity  study  in  B6C3F1  mice  (50/sex/group;  0,  3,  7.5,  18.75  mg/kg/day 
febuxostat) the mortality was 8%, 8%, 14% and 20% in males and 18%, 16%, 24% and 24% at 0, 3, 
7.5  and  18.75  mg/kg/day  febuxostat,  respectively,  higher  in  females  than  in  males.  Urinary  bladder 
tumours in female mice (transitional cell papilloma in 3/50 females, transitional cell carcinoma in 1/50 
females)  were  found  at  the  high  dose  group  of  18.75  mg/kg/day,  but  none  in  controls  or  at  lower 
febuxostat dose levels. No urinary bladder tumours were found in male mice (up to 18.75 mg/kg).  
Prominent pathological/histopathological findings were: Increase in kidney weights (F: HD); increased 
incidence of fibrosis (M: MD, HD; F: HD) and calculi (F: HD) in the kidney.  
Bladder:  transitional  cell  hyperplasia,  oedema,  lymphocytic  infiltration,  fibrosis  and  hyaline  droplet 
deposition in the transitional epithelium (M, F). Bladder calculi were observed in 44/50 females and 
48/50  males  at  18.75  mg/kg/day.  It  is  therefore  somewhat  surprising  that  no  bladder  tumours  were 
observed in male mice. The febuxostat exposure in mice at 13 weeks at the highest dose of febuxostat 
in males (18.75 mg/kg/d; average AUC24: 27 µg.h/ml) and females (18.75 mg/kg/d; average AUC24:  
96.6 µg.h/ml) were approximately 6-fold higher (females) than in humans after 120 mg febuxostat oral 
dose (2 mg/kg QD with a mean AUC value of 17.6 µg.h/ml,).  
In  the  104-week  carcinogenicity  study  in  F344  rats  (50/sex/group;  0,  3,  6,  12  and  24  mg/kg/day 
febuxostat) the mortality was 24%, 20%, 18%, 20% and 36% in males and 22%, 30%, 30%, 40% and 
34%  at  0,  3,  6,  12  and  24  mg/kg/day  febuxostat,  respectively.  A  statistically  significant  increase  in 
urinary  bladder  tumours  in  male  rats  (transitional  cell  papilloma  in  10/50  males;  transitional  cell 
carcinoma in 7/50 males) was found in the high dose group (24 mg/kg/day). In female rats transitional 
cell papilloma was found in controls, at 12 and 24 mg/kg (only 1 in each group).  
Prominent histopathological findings were calculi, transitional cell hyperplasia in the bladder, kidney 
and urethra. Calculi in the urinary bladder at 24 mg/kg/d were higher in males (12/50 animals) than in 
females  (2/50  animals)  as  well  as  in  the  urethra  (15/50  males;  2/50  females).  Calculi  found  in  the 
kidney at the high dose were similar in males and females (47/50 males; 44/50 females).  
The  febuxostat  exposure  in  rats  (in  term  of  AUC)  at  the  highest  dose  of  febuxostat  in  males  (24 
mg/kg/d;  average  AUC  194  µg.h/ml  at  13  weeks)  and  females  (18.75  mg/kg/d;  average  AUC  201.8 
© EMEA 2008 
16/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
µg.h/ml) were approximately 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold higher than in humans after 120 mg febuxostat oral 
dose (2.0 mg/kg QD with a mean AUC value of 17.6 µg.h/ml. 
The incidence of urinary bladder tumours in female mice and male rats was considered secondary to 
the long-term irritation of the urinary bladder epithelium by xanthine calculi. The Applicants judgment 
is acceptable. The postulated non-genotoxic mechanism of bladder cancer in mice and rats receiving 
febuxostat  is  supported  by  the  negative  results  of  the  mutagenicity  studies  and  the  close  association 
between  observed  calculi  and  tumours  at  least  in  the  rat.  Furthermore,  a  direct  damage  to  the 
uroepithelium,  cytotoxicity  and  consequent  regenerative  hyperplasia  by  urinary  calculi  has  been 
observed  in  mice  (Saccata  et  al,  1988,  Carcinogenesis  9,  1271-1276)  and  rats  (Shirai  et  al.,  1986, 
Cancer Research 46, 2062-2067) by uracil feeding. As pointed out by these investigators a prolonged, 
continuous stimulus to increase cell number and cell proliferation is adequate to result in carcinomas 
being  generated  in  a  significant  proportion  of  rats  or  mice  over  their  life-time  and  no  DNA  altering 
effects has to postulated for this agent to result in tumours. 
In  mice  an  increase  in  urine  pH  and/or  urine  volume  reduced/inhibited  the  formation  of  xanthine 
calculi  in  the  urinary  bladder  and  prevented  the  occurrence  of  urinary  bladder  transitional  cell 
hyperplasia in febuxostat treated animals. An increase in urine volume also reduced the uracil-induced 
bladder  effects  in  mice.  The  study  supports  the  postulated  non-genotoxic  mechanism  of  bladder 
tumour development as observed in the mouse and rat carcinogenicity studies. 
The less than a 6-fold greater exposure in mice and less than 2-fold greater exposure in rats than in 
humans  is  low,  however  in  the  case  of  the  assumed  non-genotoxic  carcinogenic  effect  the  safety  in 
humans might depend on the risk of treatment-induced xanthine calculi formation.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproduction and development studies were performed in rats and rabbits at doses of 3 mg/kg, (LD) 
12 mg/kg (MD) and 48 mg/kg (HD). 
Febuxostat had no effect on male or female fertility in rats at doses up to 48 mg/kg/d. Toxic effects in 
male and female rats included deposition and/or calculus of xanthine crystals in the kidney (M, F) or 
bladder  (M)  at  the  high  dose  (48  mg/kg/d).  Similar  effects  on  dams  were  observed  in  the  Embryo-
foetal development study in rats (but not in rabbits) as well as in the Pre- and Postnatal development 
rat  study  at  48  mg/kg.    Embryotoxicity  was  not  observed  in  rats  and  rabbits  (NOAEL  48  mg/kg/d). 
There was no evidence for a teratogenic potential in both animal species.  
In the Pre- and Postnatal development rat study toxic effects were seen in the F1 generation of dams 
receiving the high dose of 48 mg/kg. F1 pups showed a decreased body weight at birth (M, HD) and 
decrease in body weight gain (M, F: HD), and had urinary tract changes such as calculus in the kidney, 
bladder and urethra and increased thyroid weights (HD) suggesting febuxostat exposure via the dams 
milk.  A  slowed  development  and  a  decreased  weaning  index  (HD)  was  observed,  which  was 
considered to be secondary to renal damage in the F0 dams caused by xanthine crystal deposition in the 
kidney.  
The  exposure  in  pregnant  rabbits  was  quite  high  (AUC  at  NOAEL  was  about  400  µg.h/ml),  which 
represents an about 23 to 24-fold higher exposure than in females at 120 mg/d (mean AUC was 17.5 
µg.h/ml, 16 µg.h/ml at single or multiple doses in Phase I studies, n=30).  
Exposure  in  pregnant  rats  has  not  been  measured,  but  AUC  values  in  non-pregnant  Fisher  344  rats 
reached 338-375 µg.h/ml at 48 mg/kg in the 13-week toxicokinetic study, suggesting a high exposure 
at the highest dose level in the rat reproduction studies.   
The  safety  margin  in  the  rat  development  study  at NOAEL  level  (3mg/kg,  and  assuming  a  similar 
exposure  value  as  in  the  13-  week  toxicokinetic  study:  AUC:  16.4  µg.h.ml)  might  be  low  and     
around 1. However, the risk of developmental toxicity in humans would apparently depend on the risk 
of treatment-induced calculi formation. 
Adenuric should not be used during breast-feeding. 
•  Local tolerance 
Local tolerance testing is not relevant to the administration route of this medicinal product. 
© EMEA 2008 
17/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
A  passive  cutaneous  anaphylaxis  test  in  mice  and  guinea  pigs  and  an  active  systemic  anaphylaxis 
(ASA) test in guinea pigs gave negative results indicating no antigenic febuxostat effect.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental risk assessment including Phase I was carried out.  
The Applicant calculated a Phase I PECSURFACEWATER of 0.006 µg L-1 using the default values specified 
in  the  CHMP/SWP/4447/00  draft  guideline.  However,  the  Fpen  used  by  the  Applicant  was  0.01  % 
rather  than  the  default  of  1  %.  The  use  of  an  Fpen  of  0.01  %  was  not  supported  by  appropriate 
references. The correct PECSURFACEWATER is 0.6 µg L-1 which is well above 0.01 µg L-1 and a Phase II 
assessment was requested by CHMP. 
A  Phase  II  investigation  according  to  the  Guideline  on  the  environmental  Risk  Assessment  of 
Medicinal Products for human use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) was performed, as requested in the 
CHMP LoOI), which included the following tests: Activated sludge respiration inhibition test (OECD 
209),  Assessment  of  ready  biodegradability  by  measurement  of  Carbon  Dioxide  Evolution  (OECD 
301B),  Activated  sludge  adsorption  isotherm  (OPPTS  835.1110),  Inhibition  of  growth  to  the  alga 
Pseudokirchneriella  subcapitata  (OECD  210),  Fish  toxicity  testing  to  Pimephales  promelas  (OECD 
203 and 210) and acute and chronic effects to Daphnia magna (OECD 211). 
As requested by CHMP the applicant commits to perform a study on aerobic transformation in aquatic 
sediment systems (OECD 308) for febuxostat to complete the Phase II environmental fate and effect 
analysis and to prove that febuxostat is unlikely to be a concern for the environment. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A  comprehensive  clinical  program  was  performed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics, 
efficacy and safety. The submitted clinical pharmacology data included 25 in vitro studies  and 36 in 
vivo studies. 
The clinical efficacy data included 5 studies (1 dose response study, 2 pivotal Phase III studies, and 
interim analyses of 2  ongoing open-label long-term extension studies)  
At the time of EU MAA application, the US clinical studies include a total of 2531 subjects who had 
received at least one dose of febuxostat across the Phase 1, 2 and 3 trials. Approximately 900 subjects 
were ongoing in the long-term extension studies. Sixty-one of these subjects had been treated for more 
than 4 years. 
The safety data are mainly based on the 2 pivotal Phase III studies and interim analyses of the ongoing 
2 open-label long-term extension studies. 
The Japan clinical program for febuxostat included 6 Phase I trials, 7 Phase II trials, and 2 Phase III 
trials.    However,  since  at  the  time  of  EU  application,  the  Japan  program  evaluated  a  different 
indication  (hyperuricaemia/gout)  and  lower  doses  of  febuxostat  (doses  up  to  40  mg  QD)  than  those 
being  developed  in  the  United  States  (80  mg  QD  and  120  mg  QD,  the  efficacy  of  febuxostat  in  the 
current  application  is  mainly  based  on  the  US  clinical  studies.  Japanese  studies  were  considered 
regarding safety. 
No paediatric studies have been conducted. 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
© EMEA 2008 
18/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  Phase  1  clinical  pharmacology  program  included  25  in  vitro  studies  and  36  in  vivo  studies.  (In 
addition, two population PK analyses were performed. 
•  Absorption 
In vitro studies: 
The  apparent  permeability  coefficient  (Papp)  of  febuxostat  was  determined  in  a  Caco-2  absorption 
assay. When tested at pH 7.4, the absorption of febuxostat was similar to that of salicylic acid, which 
is known to have a medium permeability. Verapamil did not appear to have an effect on the transport 
rate  of  febuxostat,  indicating  that  P-glycoprotein  is  not  involved  in  the  transport  of  febuxostat. 
However, some other  efflux system(s)  was probably involved in febuxostat transport since transport 
rates  from  basolateral  to  apical  were  higher  than  those  from  apical  to  basolateral  at  the  10  µM 
concentration. At pH 5.5, the absorption rate of febuxostat at both the 10 and 100 µM concentrations 
increased,  ranking  it  among  drugs  of  high  permeability  (such  as  testosterone).  In  addition,  transport 
rates  from  apical  to  basolateral  were  higher  than  those  from  basolateral  to  apical,  indicating  that  a 
transport carrier with a pH-dependent mechanism was facilitating absorption. 
According  to  the  Biopharmaceutics  Classification  System  febuxostat  is  classified  as  a  Class  2 
compound (low solubility, high permeability). 
In vivo studies: 
A  single  oral  dose  of  80  mg  [14C]  febuxostat  was  given  to  6  male  volunteers.  The  absorption  of 
radioactivity was rapid (tmax 0.58 h). The major peak in plasma was febuxostat, which accounted for 
an  average  of  94%  of  the  total  radioactivity  at  Cmax  (Cmax  total  [14C]:  4.19±1.67  µg/ml;  Cmax 
febuxostat: 3.95±1.58 µg/ml). AUC febuxostat represented 83% of total radioactivity AUC (AUC total 
[14C]:  10.25±2.69  µg.h/ml;  AUC  febuxostat:  8.48±2.18  µg.h/ml).  Values  for  the  maximum  unbound 
febuxostat  (Cmax,u)  and  exposure  to  unbound  febuxostat  (AUC24,u)  were  not  given.  Metabolites 
observed in plasma at 4 h were relative low compared to febuxostat (84.7%). 67M-1 (4.36%), 67M-2 
(5.45%),  67M-4  (1.25%),  regio-isomers  of  acyl-glucuronide  (3.8%)  of  febuxostat,  and  the  sulfate 
conjugate of 67M-1 (0.5%).  
A placebo-controlled, dose-escalation study of febuxostat in 154 healthy adult volunteers investigated 
PK and PD data at daily oral doses of 10-240 mg QD and 30 mg bid (twice daily) over 14 days. The 
pharmacokinetics of total febuxostat (bound + unbound) was neither time nor dose dependent at oral 
doses of 10 - 120 mg/day. For doses greater than 120 mg a greater than dose-proportional increase in 
AUC  was  observed,  whilst  Cmax  appeared  to  increase  proportional  to  the  dose  between  10  mg  and 
240 mg QD.  
A study investigated PK and PD parameter (Part A) in healthy male and female subjects receiving 300 
mg febuxostat QD over 7 days (design: Phase 1, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, single-
centre  study).  This  dose  of  300  mg  febuxostat  QD  resulted  in  the  highest  exposure  of  all  clinical 
studies on febuxostat. The study demonstrated again the non-linearity of AUC for febuxostat at higher 
doses. AUCτ of febuxostat at the 300 mg QD dose at day 7 was about 4 times that at the 120 mg QD 
dose (11.9 µg.h/ml) at day 14 in the dose-escalation study. Cmax of febuxostat at the 300 mg QD dose 
at day 7 was about 2.6 times that at the 120 mg QD dose (5.31 µg/ml) at day 14 in the dose-escalation 
study, which would indicate approximate dose proportionality up to 300 mg QD for Cmax. The total 
febuxostat AUCτ and unbound febuxostat AUCτ,u on day 7 was 48.3 and 0.339 µg.h/ml, respectively, 
approximately 6 times the observed mean total plasma exposures with 80 mg of febuxostat in controls 
of special population studies in healthy subjects (7.50, 7.61 and 8.15 µg.h/ml AUCτ and 0.065, 0.051 
and 0.055 µg.h/ml AUCτ,u in studies TMX-xx- 008 , TMX-xx-012 and TMX-01-016, respectively. 
The absolute bioavailability was not determined in humans because of unavailability of an intravenous 
febuxostat formulation. An absorption of febuxostat of about 84% or even greater has been postulated 
as judged from the finding in Cxx-040 that only 6-16% of radioactivity was recovered as unchanged 
febuxostat in faeces.  
© EMEA 2008 
19/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant  food  intake  reduced  the  absorption  of  febuxostat.  The  three  food  studies  gave  similar 
results, namely a decrease of Cmax for total febuxostat of 46%, 49%, 38% and a decrease of AUC∞ 
for total febuxostat of 19%, 18% and 16% in the three studies, following a high-fat meal vs. fasting 
conditions.  The  Applicant  stated  on  grounds  of  a  not  substantial  difference  in  the  decline  of  serum 
urate under fasting or non-fasting conditions (58% non-fasting vs. 51% fasting) that febuxostat can be 
taken with or without food (which is recommended also in the SPC). The Applicants argument, based 
on pharmacodynamic findings, appears to be acceptable, but neglects the pharmacokinetic finding of a 
reduction of total exposure up to 19%. It is noted that the treatment description in the pivotal studies 
(APEX,  FACT)  does  not  specify  whether  febuxostat  had  to  be  taken  under  fasting  or  non-fasting 
conditions.   
Bioequivalence  of  the  20  mg  US  and  Japanese  tablet  formulations  were  demonstrated.  In  addition, 
bioequivalence was demonstrated for the combinations of tablet strengths (20, 40, 80 and 120 mg) that 
were  utilized  in  clinical  trials,  as  well  as  for  tablets  manufactured  at  the  pilot  scale  and  those 
manufactured  at  the  proposed  commercial  scale.  In  the  biopharmaceutical  studies  intrasubject 
variability  of  febuxostat  was  low  for  Cmax  (CVs  of  23-34%)  and  AUC∞  (CVs  of  9-12%).  The 
intersubject variability was slightly higher (CVs of 27-48% for Cmax and CVs of 23-39% for AUC). 
For  tmax,  the  intrasubject  and  intersubject  variability  was  high  (CVs  of  41-73%  and  54-90%, 
respectively).  
For the foreseen febuxostat (Adenuric) EU tablets no bioequivalence study has been performed which 
compares  tablets  manufactured  for  the  EU  market  with  the  tablets  used  in  Phase  III  studies. 
Dissolution profiles were shown as bioequivalence surrogate.  
Two population pharmacokinetic studies were performed using data from study TMX-xx-005 or data 
from the APEX study . The structural model was a 2-compartment model with first order absorption 
rate  and  a  lag  time.  The  population  pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic  model  estimated  population 
means for Cl, Vc, Vp, Q, Ka, tlag, Kin, IC50, and Kout. 
The population PK analysis included only 125 subjects out of 665 on febuxostat (80, 120 and 240 mg 
QD) in the Phase III APEX study and 87 of 116 subjects in the open label LTE study TMX-01-005. In 
both studies pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic samples were taken at steady state (during week 
16-28 in the APEX study and during week 28-52 in study TMX-01-005).  
Population PK from TMX-xx-005 data identified baseline creatinine clearance and smoking status for 
Cl  and  baseline  serum  urate  for  Kout as  statistically  significant  covariates.  Smoking  as  a  significant 
covariate could not be confirmed in the APEX study. Population PK from the APEX data identified 
BUA  for  Kin  and  CrCl,  weight  (WT)  and  fibrate  status  for  Cl  as  statistically  significant  covariates. 
Covariates  for  Kout  were  not  estimated.  Fibrate  decreased  the  febuxostat  clearance  and  increased 
exposure.  The estimated population mean IC50 was 0.209 µg/ml (inter-individual variability: 48.4%) 
in study TMX-xx-005 and 0.239 µg/ml (inter-individual variability: 66.7%) in the APEX study .  
The population PK reports were not very detailed and lacked several elements necessary to allow for a 
full secondary assessment of the analyses. Additional evaluation of the population PK analyses would 
be needed if any claims were to be based on these analyses or if the models were to be used in future 
simulations. 
•  Distribution 
Protein binding: 
Febuxostat  is  highly  bound  to  human  plasma  proteins  (determined  by  ultrafiltration):  97.9-98.9%, 
98.1-99% and 98.3-99% at nominal 0.4, 2.0 or 10 µg/ml [14C]febuxostat concentrations in two in vitro 
studies,  predominantly  to  serum  albumin  (98.1%  to  99.1%),  mainly  at  the  diazepam  bindings  site. 
Binding to α1-acid glycoprotein was low (average 15.6 %). Binding of metabolites 67M-1, 67M-2 and 
67M-4 to plasma proteins (determined by ultrafiltration) was less than observed with the parent drug 
and approximately 90%, 81.7% and 91.7%, respectively, measured at 200 ng/ml. 
© EMEA 2008 
20/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Febuxostat appears to have a low to medium volume of distribution of approximately 0.7 L/kg. The 
mean  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (Vc+Vp)  for  febuxostat  was  estimated  as  54.4  L  in  the 
population PK analysis. Febuxostat has an apparent elimination half-life of approximately 4-6 hours. 
•  Elimination 
Metabolism 
Febuxostat  is  mainly  metabolized  to  its  acyl-glucuronide  and  by  oxidation  of  the  isobutyl  moiety 
leading to the formation of 4-hydroxy metabolites 67M-1, 67M-2, and 67M-3 and 67M-4; as detailed 
in non-clinical metabolism section 67M-3 is  not observed in humans. 
Glucuronidation of febuxostat is the major metabolic pathway. Three oxidative metabolites have been 
identified  in plasma  and  urine  in  several  studies  from  healthy  volunteers  or  from  healthy volunteers 
and patients with renal impairment (or hepatic impairment and in subjects of different gender or age. 
Similarly  to  febuxostat,  4-hydroxy  metabolites  also  undergo  conjugation,  but  to  a  lower  extent  as 
compared to febuxostat, indicating that conjugation plays a less major role in elimination of febuxostat 
oxidative  metabolites.  However,  reduced  renal  elimination  of  conjugated  febuxostat  as  observed  in 
patients with severe renal impairment can influence the pharmacokinetics.  
Several  different  UGT  isoforms  catalysed  formation  of  febuxostat  glucuronide.  At  least  CYP1A1, 
1A2,  2C8  and  2C9  are  involved  in  the  formation  of  67M-1  and  67M-2.  The  relative  importance  of 
different  isoforms  has  not  been  determined.  The  enzyme  responsible  for  formation  of  67M-4  from 
67M-1 has not been identified, but it does not appear to be a CYP isoenzyme.  
Of the urine and faecal samples evaluated an average of 86.8% (46.2% urine and 40.6% faeces) of the 
dose was evaluated, with the known metabolites and febuxostat accounting for 82.3% of the dose, and 
the remaining 4.4% were from 8 unidentified peaks (P0, P1, P2, P4, P6, P7, P15, P16), which could 
not be evaluated because the concentrations were too low to be identified (each less than 2% of the 
total radioactive dose).  
Excretion 
The  mean  (SD)  cumulative  recovery  of  [14C]  radioactivity  in  excreta  was  94.1  ±  0.7%  (49  ±  9.8% 
urine  and  44.9  ±  10.1%  faeces)  at  216  hours  post-dose.  Febuxostat  represented  a  combined  total  of 
10%-18% (1%-3% urine and 8%-16% faeces) of the dose. Other studies confirmed these results.  
In faeces, unchanged febuxostat was one of the  major peaks, although it accounted for only a small 
part of the dose. The unchanged febuxostat in faeces might be unabsorbed drug, but it is likely also 
absorbed drug excreted unchanged or re-formed from excreted glucuronide. In urine, unchanged drug 
accounted for less than 4% of the dose. The major compound in urine was febuxostat glucuronide. The 
oxidative metabolites are excreted in urine and faeces, unchanged or as glucuronides.   
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality has been investigated in one Phase I study in healthy volunteers at doses ranging 
from  10-240  mg/day  febuxostat  (TMX-99-001),  and  in  one  Phase  II  study  in  patients  with  gout  at 
doses of 40, 80 and 120 mg/day febuxostat (TMX-00-004: Becker et al., 2005).  
In the dose-escalation study TMX-99-001, pharmacokinetics of febuxostat was neither time nor dose-
dependent  at  doses  of  10  -  120  mg/day.  Daily  doses  in  the  range  of  10  -  120  mg  produced  dose-
proportional  increases  in  maximum  febuxostat  plasma  concentrations  (Cmax)  and  area  under  the 
plasma concentration versus time curves (AUC). For doses greater than 120 mg a greater than dose-
proportional  increase  in  AUC  was  observed,  whilst  Cmax  appeared  to  increase  proportional  to  the 
dose between 10 mg and 240 mg QD. 
In  study  TMX-xx-004  the  median  trough  febuxostat  concentrations  at  steady  state  were  linearly 
related to the febuxostat dose. 
•  Special populations 
© EMEA 2008 
21/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
(n=32) 
I  study 
investigated 
Renal impairment: 
the  pharmacokinetics, 
A  multicentre,  parallel  group  Phase 
pharmacodynamics and safety of febuxostat in male and female subjects with normal renal function or 
patients  with  renal  impairment.  Febuxostat  (80  mg/day;  administered  as  4x20  mg  tablets  was  orally 
administered for 7 days to subjects with normal renal function (n = 11, CLcr >80 ml/min/1.73 m2) or 
to subjects with mild (n = 6, CLcr 50-80 ml/min/1.73 m2), moderate (n = 7, CLcr 30-49 ml/min/1.73 
m2), or severe renal impairment (n = 7, CLcr 10-29 ml/min/1.73 m2). The higher dose of 120 mg/day, 
intended for treatment of gout, was not investigated.  
PK: Mean tmax for febuxostat was fast (about 1.00 hour) for all treatment groups. Mean Cmax and 
mean AUC24 for total febuxostat were 2.87 ± 1.25 µg/ml and 7.50 ± 2.68 µg.h/ml and mean Cmax,u 
and  mean  AUC24,u  for  unbound  febuxostat  were  25.01  ±  12.8  ng/ml  and  65.5  ±  28.1  ng.h/ml  in 
controls.  Total  mean  AUC24  was  approximately  48%,  48%  and  76%  higher  for  subjects  with  mild, 
moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment,  respectively.  Unbound  mean  AUC24,u  was  approximately 
52%,  40%  and  127%  higher  for  subjects  with  mild  and  moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment, 
respectively,  than  in  controls.  The  variability  was  higher  and  protein  binding  slightly  lower  in  the 
severe renal impairment group than in the other groups, and there were no patients with CLcrea<15 
ml/min  in  the  study.  The  AUC  of  active  metabolites  increased  proportionally  more  than  the  parent 
compound  in  all  groups  and  the  urinary  excretion  of  total  metabolites  (67M-1,  67M-2  and  67M-  4, 
unchanged plus conjugated) was generally lower in subjects with renal impairment than with normal 
renal  function.  As  active  metabolites  have  higher  free  concentrations  than  febuxostat,  this  could  be 
expected to lead to a greater change in activity than the change in total concentrations.  
AUC0-24  for  febuxostat  all  three  metabolites  showed  a  linear  relationship  with  Clcr.    The  Clr  of  the 
unchanged metabolites in severe renal impairment group was more than 10-fold lower than in subjects 
with normal renal function. 
PD: The mean serum 24-h UA concentrations decreased from baseline (which was higher in subjects 
with  renal  impairment)  to  a  similar  extent  in  subjects  with  normal  renal  function  (58.2%)  and  in 
patients  with  mild,  moderate  or  severe  renal  impairment  (63.6%,  56.7%*  and  55.1%,  respectively; 
*p<0.05).  The  mean  serum  xanthine  concentration  in  subjects  on  80  mg  febuxostat  increased  from 
0.15 mg/dl in subjects with normal renal function to 0.21, 0.38 and 0.63 mg/dl in and in patients with 
mild, moderate or severe renal impairment.  
Overall, due to the large variability in severe renal impairment, the shift in febuxostat/metabolite ratio 
and the pharmacodynamic results, it is not considered possible to extrapolate safety data from healthy 
volunteers who have received high doses for a short period of time (2 weeks) to patients with severe 
renal impairment. From a purely pharmacokinetic point of view, the increase in febuxostat exposure at 
mild or moderate impairment does not warrant dose adjustments.  
investigated 
Hepatic impairment 
An  open-label,  parallel  group  Phase  I  study  (n=27), 
the  pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics  (and  safety)  of  febuxostat  in  male  and  female  subjects  with  normal  hepatic 
function  (n=11)  and  subjects  with  mild  (n=8)  and  moderate  (n=8)  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh 
classification).  Patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  were  excluded.  80  mg  febuxostat  was  given 
once daily for 7 days.  
PK:  Mean  Cmax  and  mean  AUC24  for  total  febuxostat  were  2.84  ±  0.94  µg/ml  and  7.61  ±  2.65 
µg.h/ml  and  mean  Cmax,u  and  mean  AUC24,u  for  unbound  febuxostat  were  19.1  ±  7.2  ng/ml  and 
51.2 ± 19.2 ng.h/ml in controls. Total Cmax was approximately 23% and 53% higher and total AUC24 
was  approximately  29%  and  54%  higher  for  subjects  with  mild  and  moderate  hepatic  impairment, 
respectively.  The  higher  dose  of  120  mg/d  recommended  for  gout  treatment,  was  not  investigated. 
Unbound  Cmax,u  was  approximately  24%  higher  and  unbound  AUC24,u  approximately  28%  and 
24% higher for subjects with mild  and moderate hepatic impairment, respectively.  The steady state 
clearance for unbound febuxostat was only reduced in the mild hepatic impairment group (about 28% 
reduction). Elimination half-lives were similar for each hepatic function group (4.9 to 5.5 h). None of 
the differences between subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and subjects with normal 
hepatic function was statistically significant (P > 0.05). 
© EMEA 2008 
22/51 
 
 
 
 
PD: Serum uric acid Cmean,24 values decreased (mean of 62.5% (normal), 48.9% (mild) and 47.8% 
(moderate)) and  urinary uric acid Cmean,24 concentrations decreased (64.0% (normal), 62.7% (mild) 
and  42.5%  (moderate)  at  mild  or  moderate  hepatic  impairment  compared  with  normal  hepatic 
function.  Serum  xanthine  Cmean,24  values  increased  statistically  significant  and  the  total  urinary 
xanthine Cmean,24 and the total daily xanthine excretion decreased significantly in patients with mild 
or  moderate  decrease  in  hepatic  function  compared  to  patients  without  hepatic  impairment.  Urinary 
hypoxanthine Cmean,24 concentrations increased substantially for each hepatic function group.  
Overall, mild to moderate hepatic impairment did not significantly affect exposure to febuxostat or its 
active  metabolites.  However,  metabolic  impairment  in  the  subjects  included  in  the  study  might  not 
have been significant. 
Age and Gender 
A study investigated the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of 80 mg oral febuxostat/day in 24 
healthy male and 24 healthy female subjects given over 7 days (design: Phase 1, parallel-group, open-
label, multiple-dose study in male and female subjects between the ages of 18 and 40, inclusive and 65 
years  of  age  and  older).  Subjects  were  categorized  into  different  study  groups  based  on  age  and 
gender. Each subject received febuxostat once daily for 7 consecutive days after an overnight fast of at 
least 8 hours. 
The  Applicant’s  statement  that  the  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  febuxostat  appeared 
not  to  be  substantially  affected  by  age  or  gender  and  that  no  dose  adjustment  is  required  based  on 
differences in age is substantiated by data and acceptable. Unbound febuxostat Cmax and AUC values 
were statistically significantly (p<0.05) higher in females than in males probably due to slightly lower 
total body clearance and/or volume of distribution of febuxostat in females as compared to males. The 
differences  could  be  largely  accounted  for  by  weight  differences  between  male  and  female  subjects 
and were therefore not due to gender differences alone. 
Ethnic  differences  in  efficacy  of  febuxostat  between  Caucasian  and  non-Caucasian  subjects  were 
reported  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  (combined  data).  PK  differences  were  not  reported.  78%  of 
patients  treated  with  febuxostat  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  (APEX,  FACT  studies)  were 
Caucasians. In the Black and Hispanic subgroups, response rates in the febuxostat groups were smaller 
than  in  the  Caucasian  subgroup.  These  differences  were  statistically  significant  in  the  febuxostat  80 
mg  and  120  mg  groups,  but  not  in  the  240  mg  group.  The  response  rate  in  the  Asian  and  ‘other’ 
subgroups was generally similar to that seen in the Caucasian subgroup. It is difficult to draw a correct 
conclusion on real differences regarding febuxostat efficacy in gout patients in different ethnic groups 
due to the small number of patients in the non-Caucasian subgroups. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
An  in  vitro  study  in  human  microsomes  investigated  the  potential  of  febuxostat  to  inhibit  the 
metabolic  activities  of  cytochrome  P450  isoenzymes  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6  or 
CYP3A4.  Febuxostat  was  found  to  be  a  competitive  inhibitor  of  the  CYP2D6  catalyzed  O-
demethylation  of  dextrometorphan  (Ki  =  40  µM,  12.6  µg/ml).  This  Ki  value  is  about  2-fold  greater 
than the Cmax for total febuxostat (5.3 µg/ml) and more than 100-fold greater than the free (unbound) 
concentration of febuxostat at the clinically recommended maximal dose of 120 mg/d (study TMX-99-
001).  For  all  other  isoenzymes  the  Ki  values  were  >100  µM.    Considering  the  low  free  drug 
concentration  of  febuxostat  at  the  recommended  maximal  daily  dose  of  120  mg  it  is  agreed  that  the 
interaction  with  concomitantly  administered  drugs  via  a  metabolic  inhibition  mechanism  is 
low/unlikely. 
Eight  in  vivo  drug-drug  interaction  studies  were  performed.  These  studies  investigated  the  possible 
influence  of  colchicine,  naproxen,  indomethacin,  desipramine,  antacid,  hydrochlorothiazide  or 
warfarin  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  febuxostat  and  the  possible  effect  of  febuxostat  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of colchicine, naproxen, indomethacin or warfarin. The concomitant application of 
the  above  drugs  in  the  treatment  of  gout  with  febuxostat  does  not  require  any  dose  adjustments  for 
either febuxostat or the investigated drugs.   
© EMEA 2008 
23/51 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
A significant drug-drug interaction was observed with the combination febuxostat (80 mg QD, 7 days) 
and  naproxen  (500  mg  BID,  7  days).  Co-administration  of  naproxen  increased  the  febuxostat  Cmax  , 
AUCt, AUC24, and t1/2 by approximately 28%, 41%, 41%, and 26%, respectively, in comparison with 
febuxostat alone and the mean oral clearance (Cl/F) decreased by 28%. This was suggested to be due 
to inhibition of glucuronidation. This increase in plasma exposure to febuxostat is not expected to raise 
any safety concerns, and no dose adjustment for febuxostat is required.  
Co-administration of an antacid with febuxostat decreased Cmax, but not AUC. The decrease in Cmax 
is  not  likely  to  be  clinically  important  because  the  effect  on  total  exposure  to  febuxostat  was  not 
affected, since a correlation between total febuxostat AUC and sUA has been shown.   
The investigation with desipramine suggested that febuxostat is a slight inhibitor of CYP2D6. 
Interaction between febuxostat and fibrate has been described in the population PK. 
The  in  vitro  study  on  febuxostat  effects  on  cytochrome  P450  did  not  include  isoenzyme  CYP2C8, 
which  may  be  involved  in  febuxostat  metabolism,  nor  CYP2B6.  There  is  also  no  in  vitro  study  to 
evaluate whether febuxostat is a Pgp inhibitor.  
The  Applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  post-marketing  study  for  the  evaluation  of  the  in  vitro 
inhibitory potential for CYP2C8 and for CYP2B, as requested by the CHMP.  
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
Human  biomaterials  were  used  in  in  vitro  studies  (including  plasma,  liver  microsomes,  expressed 
cytochrome  P450  [CYP]  enzymes,  and  CaCo-2  cells)  to  characterize  the  metabolism,  permeability, 
and potential enzyme inhibition profile of febuxostat.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Febuxostat  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  xanthine  oxidase  (XO).  Febuxostat  binds  very  tightly  to  both  the 
active and the inactive desulfo-form of the enzyme. The crystal structure of the active sulfo-form of 
milk  XO  complexed  with  febuxostat  and  determined  at  2.8-A  resolution  revealed  the  inhibitor 
molecule bound in a long, narrow channel leading to the molybdenum-pterin active site of the enzyme. 
It  filled  up  most  of  the  channel  and  the  immediate  environment  of  the  cofactor.  Inhibition  of  the 
activity of the enzyme occurs through the prevention of substrate binding. Although the inhibitor did 
not  directly  coordinate  to  the  molybdenum  ion,  numerous  hydrogen  bonds  as  well  as  hydrophobic 
interactions  with  the  protein  matrix  were  observed  (Okamoto  et  al.,  2003).  This  is  in  contrast  to 
allopurinol  (oxipurinol),  which  binds  to  the  molybdenum-pterin  active  site  of  the  enzyme. 
Furthermore, febuxostat is not oxidized by the XO, whilst allopurinol is oxidized to oxipurinol, which 
coordinates tightly to the pterin-bound molybdenium ion and prevents catalysis (Massey et al., 1993; 
Okamoto  et  bal,  2003).  Thus  the  mechanism  of  XO  inhibition  by  febuxostat  and  allopurinol  is 
different. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  effect  of  febuxostat  in  healthy  volunteers  has  been  investigated  in 
several  Phase  I  studies:  Cxx-023,  TMX-xx-001  (Becker  et  al.,  2004),  TMX-xx-  008    (Mayer  et  al., 
2005), TMX-xx-012 (, Khosravan et al., 2006) and TMX-xx-016 (Khosravan et al., 2005). 
TMX-xx-001 is a placebo-controlled dose-escalation Phase I study (dose range: 10-240 mg QD over 
14 days), all other studies are open-label studies. Study Cxx-023 investigated 300 mg QD over 7 days, 
TMX-01-008,  TMX-01-012,  TMX-xx-016  investigated  80  mg  QD  over  7  days.  The  results  clearly 
demonstrate  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  febuxostat  in  healthy  volunteers.  The  primary 
pharmacodynamic  effect  of  orally  administered  febuxostat  was  also  shown  in  a  Phase  II  placebo-
© EMEA 2008 
24/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
controlled  dose-finding  study  in  patients  with  hyperuricaemia/gout  (TMX-00-004;  Becker  et  al., 
2005). 
In  the  well  planned  and  well  performed  Phase  I  dose  escalation  study  TMX-xx-001  the  oral 
application of febuxostat (10 mg to 240 mg QD over 14 days) to healthy volunteers resulted in a dose-
dependent  decreased  uric  acid  and  increased  xanthine  concentrations  in  both  serum  and  urine  and  a 
decrease  in  the  total  daily  urinary  excretion  and  urinary  uric  acid  concentration  and  a  substantial 
increase in total daily urinary excretion, urinary concentration, and renal clearance of xanthine. Serum 
concentrations  of  hypoxanthine  remained  unchanged,  but  the  urinary  concentration  and  total  daily 
urinary excretion and renal clearance of hypoxanthine were increased. 
The percent change in the 24-hour mean serum urate versus plasma febuxostat AUC24 data appeared 
to  follow  a  baseline  Emax  model.  The  estimated  average  maximum  percent  decrease  in  serum  urate 
following multiple dosing with febuxostat up to 240 mg QD at Day 14 was predicted 81.4 ± 2.4%. It 
was estimated that a febuxostat AUC24 of 3.306 ± 0.389 µg.h/ml (achieved over the dose range of 30-
40 mg QD) would result in a percent decrease of serum urate of approximately 40% (about half of the 
maximum predicted % decrease in serum urate Cmean,24). The maximum measured decrease of sUA 
was 76% at 240 mg QD at day 14. 
The plot of xanthine Cmean24 versus the total plasma exposure to febuxostat (AUC24) at steady state 
on Day 14 fitted a baseline Emax model with a correlation coefficient of 0.81. The plot of serum urate 
Cmean24 versus the total plasma exposure to febuxostat (AUC24) at steady state on Day 14 fitted a 
baseline  Emax  model  with  a  correlation  coefficient  of  0.88.  [Emax  model:  E  =  E0  +  ((Emax  – 
E0).AUC24/EAUC50 + AUC24)]. 
At 120 mg febuxostat QD (the recommended maximum daily therapeutic dose) and Day 14 the 24-h 
mean concentration of serum uric acid decreased from baseline 4.66 to 1.66 mg/dl (66%), urine uric 
acid  decreased  from  baseline  29.8  to  8.1  mg/dl  (73%),  and  the  uric  acid  excretion  Ae24  (amount 
excreted in urine over 24 h) was reduced by 73 %. Cmean,24 of xanthine increased markedly in serum 
from  baseline  0.026  to  0.191  mg/dl  (7.3-fold)  and  urine  from  0.446  to  11.5  mg/dl  (25-fold),  serum 
hypoxanthine was more or less unchanged (0.135 vs. 0.141 mg/dl), but urine hypoxanthine increased 
from baseline 0.36 to 2.64 mg/dl and Ae24 was increased from 6.9 to 45 mg. 80 mg febuxostat was not 
investigated  in  the  dose  escalation  study.  40  mg  febuxostat  QD,  which  was  the  maximal  daily  dose 
used in Japanese clinical studies, is obviously a sub-optimal dose, as clearly demonstrated in the dose-
escalation study. 
In  study  Cxx-023  following  oral  administration  of  febuxostat  300  mg  QD  for  7  days,  the  24-hour 
mean  serum  uric  acid  concentrations  decreased  by  approximately  87%  (from  4.068  mg/ml  to  0.577 
mg/ml  on  Day  7),  which  was  slightly  higher  than  the  predicted  value  (76%),  based  on  the  baseline 
Emax  model  which  was  used  to  fit  the  data  from  the  dose-escalation  study.  Mean  xanthine  serum 
concentrations  increased  from  0.039  to  0.229  mg/dl.  Serum  hypoxanthine  was  marginally  affected 
(increase of 4%). Urinary uric acid Cmean,24 declined by approximately 93% (from 18.131 mg/dl to 
1.353  mg/dl  on  Day 7)  and  uric  acid  mean  Ae24  decreased  by  approximately  93%.  Urinary xanthine 
Cmean,24, Ae24, and Clr on Day 7 increased to 32 (10.5 mg/dl), 25, and 5 times its baseline values, 
respectively. 
Administration of 80 mg febuxostat QD (the recommended usual daily therapeutic dose) orally over 7 
days in three Phase I studies in healthy volunteers (control groups in special population studies) gave 
similar  qualitative  results  as  obtained  in  the  dose-escalation  study.  Cmean24  serum  uric  acid 
concentration  was  reduced  from  baseline  by  55%  to  62%,  Cmean24  urinary  uric  acid  was  reduced 
from baseline by 28 to 64% (28% was obtained in young subjects only, but was about 63% in subjects 
>65  years),  serum  Cmean24  of  xanthine  increased  3.3  to  6.1-fold  and  urine  Cmean24  of  xanthine 
increased 26 to 33-fold. Serum hypoxanthine was little affected, but urine hypoxanthine Cmean24 and 
Ae24 were increased. 
In the Phase II dose-response efficacy (safety) study TMX-xx-004 febuxostat caused a dose-dependent 
decrease in the mean serum uric acid and a reduction in urinary urate excretion. 
The  4  oxidative  metabolites  have  been  shown  to  be  active  as  inhibitors  of  purified  bovine  milk 
xanthine oxidase in vitro, and their potency (Ki values of 0.6-2.0 nM) was similar to that of febuxostat 
© EMEA 2008 
25/51 
 
 
 
 
 
(Ki value of 0.6 nM). The estimated contribution of oxidative metabolites 67M-1, 67M-2 and 67M-4 
to  the  pharmacological  efficacy  of  febuxostat,  estimated  from  healthy  male  volunteers,  were  about 
29% (calculated from AUC values) or about 32% (calculated from Cmax values). 
Secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  orally  applied  febuxostat  in  healthy  subjects  were  not 
investigated. 
The pharmacodynamic effect of allopurinol in healthy male and female volunteers over 14 days were 
investigated in 30 subjects at allopurinol doses of 100 mg once daily (QD), 300 mg QD, or 300 mg 
twice  daily  (10  subjects  each)  over  14  days.  The  relative  potencies  of  febuxostat:  allopurinol, 
estimated  from  the  pharmacodynamic  effect  (lowering  serum  uric  acid)  of  febuxostat  in  healthy 
volunteers  and  allopurinol  over  14  days,  was  about  5.6,  which  is  almost  two  times  greater  than  the 
relative potency of 3.0 estimated in chimpanzees. 
Clinical efficacy 
•  Dose response study 
A single dose-response study (TMX-00-004) was performed in patients with hyperuricaemia and gout 
(design:  Phase  II,  multicenter,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind,  randomized,  dose-response  study). 
Subjects received febuxostat 40 mg (n=38), 80 mg (n=37) or 120 mg (n=40) or placebo (n=38) once 
daily for 28 days and colchicine (0.6 mg twice daily) prophylaxis for 14 days prior to (wash out phase) 
and 14 days after randomization. The primary endpoint (PE) was the proportion of subjects with sUA 
levels <6.0 mg/dl on day 28.  
The study population consisted primarily of white men (84-89% in the 4 groups) with a mean age of 
52-56  years  in  the  four  groups.  The  baseline  data  in  the  investigated  groups  were  comparable 
regarding  sUA  levels  (the  baseline  mean  sUA  levels  were  9.24-9.58  mg/dl  in  the  three  febuxostat 
groups and 9.87 mg/dl in the placebo group), but not regarding present tophi (16%-29% of patients in 
the febuxostat groups; 24% in the placebo group). The study demonstrates an apparently dose-related 
efficacy of febuxostat in lowering sUA concentrations in patients with hyperuricaemia and gout and 
significant  differences  vs.  placebo  (primary  and  secondary  endpoints).  Significant  differences  in  the 
success  rate  between  the  three  febuxostat  treatment  groups  (40,  80  and  120  mg/d)  have  not  been 
clearly established. Regarding the PE there was no statistical significant difference between the 40 mg 
and 80 mg dose groups (using the enzymatic or HPLC method), which has been partially attributed to 
different  baseline  sUA.  Furthermore,  the  success  rates  (PE)  between  the  120  mg  and  40  mg  groups 
(judged  from  the  HPLC  method  data)  were  not  statistically  significant.  Regarding  the  secondary 
endpoint (percentage decrease from baseline) the group differences were statistically significant.  
The primary endpoint was met by 56%, 76%, and 94% of patients at 40 mg, 80 mg and 120 mg QD 
febuxostat (enzymatic sUA determination); placebo had no effect. Secondary endpoints: The percent 
reduction in serum urate level from baseline at day 28 was -36.6%, -44.3% and -59.1% during at 40, 
80  and  120  mg  QD  febuxostat  vs.  -2.1%  in  the  placebo  group  (enzymatic  sUA  determination).  The 
mean percent reduction from baseline to Day 28 in urine uric acid levels ranged from 43.6 to 46.5% 
among the febuxostat treatment groups compared to a mean percent increase from baseline of 5.9% in 
the  placebo  group.  The  effect  of  the  short-term  treatment  on  tophi  was  negligible  and  not  evaluable 
from the small number of patients.  
During  colchicine  prophylaxis  gout  flares  occurred  at  a  frequency  of  9-15%.  In  the  absence  of 
colchicine  prophylaxis  the  incidence  of  gout  flares  in  the  ITT  population  was  similar  between  the 
placebo (37%) and febuxostat 40 mg QD (35%) treatment groups, but higher flare rates were observed 
at higher doses (41% at 80 mg QD, and 56% at 120 mg QD). A comparison of febuxostat treatment 
with  or  without  concomitant  colchicine  treatment  is  acceptable  for  the  Phase  II  study  in  order  to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of a colchicine prophylaxis and/or the necessity of prophylaxis against 
symptoms of gout flares during treatment of gout.  
© EMEA 2008 
26/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PK  data  in  study  TMX-xx-004  were  missing  in  the  original  application  files  and  were  requested  by 
CHMP.  As  outlined  by  the  Applicant  in  the  response  to  the  D120  LoQ,  only  trough  samples  were 
collected  for  plasma  and  urine  febuxostat  in  study  TMX-00-004,  therefore  it  was  not  possible  to 
provide  Cmax  and  AUC  for  total  and  unbound  febuxostat  concentrations.  Instead  mean  and  median 
trough serum febuxostat values have been provided. The median trough febuxostat concentrations at 
steady state are linearly related to the febuxostat dose. 
•  Main studies 
Main  studies  were  two  Phase  III  studies  with  double  blind  treatment  for  28  weeks  (APEX)  or  52 
weeks (FACT) in patients with hyperuricaemia/gout. Both studies were performed in North America, 
mainly  in  the  United  States.  Patients  in  the  APEX  study  were  recruited  at  167  sites  in  the  United 
States. Patients in the FACT study were recruited at 106 study sites in the United States and 6 study 
sites in Canada. 
Inclusion  criteria  were  male  or  female  subjects  (but  only  6%  or  4%  of  patients  were  females  who 
received  80  mg/d  or  120  mg/d  febuxostat,  respectively)  between  18  and  85  years  of  age,  inclusive, 
with hyperuricaemia defined as a serum urate level of ≥8.0 mg/dl on the Day -2 Visit and a history or 
presence of gout. In the APEX study at least 30% of the subjects were to have a Day -2 serum urate 
value of ≥10.0 mg/dl (not required in the FACT study ).   
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was a serum urate concentration of < 6 mg/dl at each of 
the last three monthly measurements.  
Secondary endpoints in both studies were: Proportion of subjects whose serum urate levels were <6.0 
mg/dl; percent reduction in serum urate levels; percent reduction in primary tophus size as determined 
by  physical  measurement  in  the  subset  of  subjects  with  a  primary  palpable  tophus  at  the  Screening 
Visit;  reduction  in  the  total  number  of  tophi  in  the  subset  of  subjects  with  palpable  tophi  at  the 
Screening Visit; proportion of subjects requiring treatment for a gout flare between weeks 8 and weeks 
28 (APEX) or weeks 52 (FACT). 
The  Apex  Study  was  a  28-week,  multicenter,  double  blind,  randomized,  placebo-  and  active-
controlled, parallel group, 5-arm Phase III study in patients with hyperuricaemia and gout.   
Patient population: 
1599 patients were screened and 1072 patients were randomized. The ITT/safety population included 
134  patients  on  placebo,  267  patients  on  febuxostat  80  mg/day,  269  patients  on  120  mg/day 
febuxostat, 134 patients on 240 mg/day febuxostat, and 268 patients on 300/100 mg/day allopurinol. 
The  study  population  consisted  primarily  of  white  man  (78%)  with  a  mean  age  of  51.8  years;  the 
number of included women was small (about 6%). The baseline data in the investigated groups were 
comparable. 
Baseline disease characteristics: 
The subjects had gout for an average of 10.9 years and 28% of subjects had tophi or a history of tophi. 
Urolithiasis was not reported (patients with renal calculi were excluded from the study). About 27% of 
patients  had  serum  urate  levels  <  9  mg/dl,  about  34%  of  patients  had  sUA  levels  between  9  and  10 
mg/dl  and  about  40%  had  serum  urate  levels  >10  mg/dl  (the  study  protocol  for  the  APEX  study 
required that at least 30% of the patients had to have serum urate levels >10 mg/dl). 
Outcome - primary endpoint: 
The  proportion  of  subjects  whose  last  3  serum  urate  levels  were  <6.0  mg/dl  (357  µmol/l)  (primary 
endpoint) was 0%, 48%, 65%, 69%, and 22% in the placebo, febuxostat 80 mg QD, febuxostat 120 mg 
QD, febuxostat 240 mg QD, and allopurinol 300/100 mg QD groups, respectively. Both, febuxostat 80 
mg  
QD and febuxostat 120 mg QD were statistically superior compared to the fixed dose of allopurinol 
300 mg QD [Table 1]. Subgroup analysis revealed that the proportion of patients with the last 3 serum 
urate  levels  <6  mg/dl  treated  with  febuxostat  or  allopurinol  was  dependent  on  the  baseline  sUA 
concentrations:  The  PE  was  met  by  66-51%  at  80  mg  febuxostat,  76-74%  of  patients  at  120  mg 
febuxostat and 67-73% at 240 mg febuxostat at baseline sUA levels of <9 mg/dl or 9-10 mg/dl. In the 
allopurinol group the effect was greatest at baseline sUA levels of <9 mg/dl (37%) and considerably 
© EMEA 2008 
27/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lower at sUA levels of 9-10 mg/ dl (23%). The decline in efficacy was more pronounced at sUA levels 
of >10 mg/dl (allopurinol 10%). 
Table 1 
APEX  Study  -  Proportion  of  Subjects  Whose  Last  3  Serum  Urate  Levels  were 
<6.0 mg/dL - ITT Subjects  
Last 3 Serum 
Urate Levels <6 
mg/dl 
Placebo 
Febuxostat 
80 mg QD 
    n/N          % 
Febuxostat 
120 mg QD 
n/N          % 
Febuxostat 
240 mg QD 
  n/N         % 
Yes 
No 
n/N          % 
 0/134     (0%)  126/262   (48%) 
p.m.h 
136/262   (52%) 
134/134   
(100%) 
175/269   
(65%) p 
  94/269   
(35%) 
92/134   
(69%) p.h 
42/134   
(31%) 
Allopurinol 
300/100 mg 
QD 
   n/N         % 
 60/268   
(22%) p. 
208/268   
(78%) 
Difference in 
Proportions 
26% 
97.5% CI (c) 
(16.7%, 34.7%) 
P-value (d) 
<0.001 a 
Febuxostat 80 mg vs. Allopurinol 
300/100 mg 
Febuxostat 120 mg vs. Allopurinol 
300/100 mg 
(c) 97.5% CI = 97.5% confidence interval for the difference in proportions based on the normal approximation for the 
binomial distribution 
(d) P-values from CHM test stratified by baseline by renal function (serum creatinine ≤1.5 mg/dl vs. >1.5 mg/dl); p 
Statistically significant difference versus placebo (p<0.05) using Hochberg’s procedure for multiple comparison for the 
febuxostat groups vs. placebo; a Statistically significant difference versus allopurinol 300/100 mg QD (p<0.05) using 
Hochberg’s procedure for multiple comparison; m Statistically significant difference versus febuxostat 120 mg QD (p<0.05); 
h Statistically significant difference versus febuxostat 240 mg QD (p<0.05). 
(34.0%, 51.3%) 
<0.001 a 
43% 
Outcome - secondary endpoints [Table 2] 
The proportion of subjects whose serum urate levels were <6 mg/dl at wk 28 (febuxostat: 76% (80 mg 
QD), 87% (120 mg QD), 94% (240 mg QD) vs. allopurinol 41%) and at final visit (febuxostat 72% 
(80  mg  QD),  79%  (120  mg  QD),  92%  (240  mg  QD)  vs.  allopurinol  39%)  were  statistically 
significantly greater in each of the febuxostat groups than in the allopurinol 300 mg QD group – and 
greater  than  in  the  primary  endpoint.  As  shown  for  the  primary  endpoint,  a  dose-dependence  was 
apparent with the three tested febuxostat dose levels. 
Each of the febuxostat groups had statistically significantly greater percent decrease from baseline in 
serum urate concentrations than in the allopurinol 300 mg QD group.  
Gout  flares  at  screening  were  similar  between  treatment  groups  at  baseline  (7-10%).  Gout  flares 
during  the  obligatory  1-8  wk  prophylaxis  period  were  greater  in  the  80  mg,  120  mg  and  240  mg 
febuxostat groups (28%, 36%, 46%, respectively) than in the 300/100 mg allopurinol group (23%) and 
placebo group (20%). As shown Table 2 below, this was not statistically different in febuxostat 80 mg 
group vs allopurinol group. In all five treatment groups there was an increase in gout flares at weeks 8-
12,  when  the  obligatory  prophylaxis  had  been  stopped  and  gout  flare  treatment  was  left  to  the 
discretion of the investigators (except in the 240 mg febuxostat group), but the incidence of gout flares 
declined in all groups at weeks 12-16 (Table 2, Fig. 2).  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  for  the  percent  change 
from baseline in primary tophus size at the week 28 or final visits or between treatment groups for the 
mean  change  from  baseline  in  the  total  number  of  tophi  per  subject  (except  for  placebo  vs.  120  mg 
febuxostat). 
Table 2  
APEX Study – Summary of results on secondary endpoints  
Secondary endpoints 
Placebo 
  n/N     (%) 
Febuxostat 
(80 mg/d) 
n/N     (%) 
Febuxostat 
(120 mg/d) 
n/N     (%) 
Febuxostat 
(240 mg/d) 
   n/N       (%) 
Allopurinol 
(300/100 mg/d) 
n/N     (%) 
Proportion of pat. with sUA    
p.a.h 
p.a 
p.a  
© EMEA 2008 
28/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at wk 28 (x)        <6mg/dl   
                            <5mg/dl  
                            <4mg/dl  
1/99    (1%) 
0/99    (0%) 
0/00     (0%) 
122/161m(76%) 
  82/161m(51%) 
  34/161m(21%) 
163/188   (87%) 
135/188 h(72%) 
  77/188 h(41%) 
  78/83    (94%) 
  72/83    (87%) 
  65/83    (78%) 
  85/208 (41%) p. 
  28/208 (13%) p. 
    5/208 ( 2%) 
Proportion of pat. with sUA  
at final visit (x)   <6mg/dl   
                            <5mg/dl  
                            <4mg/dl  
1/127 (1%) 
0/127 (1%) 
0/127 (1%) 
p.a.h 
183/253   (72%) 
116/253m(46%) 
  46/253m(18%) 
p.a 
209/265 h(79%) 
171/265 h(65%) 
100/265 h(38%) 
p.a 
116/126    (92%) 
106/126    (84%) 
  95/126    (75%) 
102/263 (39%) p. 
  34/263 (13%) p. 
    6/263 ( 2%) 
Serum urate concentration: 
Baseline mean±SD (mg/dl) 
% change in from baseline 
at final visit (y) 
Proportion of pat. with sUA 
<6 mg/dl at last visit 
according to baseline conc.    
  Baseline < 9 mg/dl 
  Baseline    9 to 10 mg/dl 
  Baseline >10 mg/dl 
Subjects requiring treatment  
for gout flares: Screening  
Day 1 to wk 8 (prophylaxis)
   Wk 8-12 
   WK 12-16 
   Wk 24-28 
   Wk 8-28 
9.8 ± 1.36 
9.96 ± 1.33 
9.88 ± 1.22 
9.81 ± 1.19 
9.78 ± 1.21 
-2.99 ± 13.3 
-45.2  ± 18.2 
p.a.m.h.   
-51.9  ± 18.0 p.a.h.  
-66.2  ± 20.6 p.a.    
-33.7  ± 14.7 p.    
1/32 (3%) 
0/50 (0%) 
0/45(0%) 
56/61 p.a.   (92%) 
65/89 p.a.h.(73%) 
62/103 p.a.h.(60%)
66/74 p.a.   (89%) 
66/78 p.a.  (85%) 
77/113 p.a.h (68%) 
30/31 p.a.    (97%) 
43/46 p.a.   (93%) 
43/49 p.a.   (88%) 
44/79 p..    (56%) 
39/95 p.    (41%) 
19/89 p.     (21%) 
12/134  (9%) 
27/134 (20%) 
34/118 (29%) 
23/112 (21%) 
21/103 (20%) 
62/119  (52%) 
21/262  (8%) 
73/262(28%)m.h 
79/223  (35%) 
47/206  (23%) 
26/172   (15%) 
122/223 (55%) 
28/269  (10%)   
97/269(36%)p.a.   
97/240   (40%) 
47/227   (21%) 
101/268 (15%) 
129/240 (54%)  
13/134  (10%) 
61/134  (46%) p.a.   
45/106  (42%) 
15/989  (15%) 
  7/89    (8%) p 
60/106  (57%) p.a 
20/268   (7%) 
61/268   (23%) 
63/237   (27%) 
51/227   (22%) 
31/216   (14%) 
110/237 (46%) 
21 (-40.3%) 
26 (-52.0%) 
  22 (0) wk 28 
     -0.3 
35 (-54.2.6%) 
     50 (-42.4%) 
26 (-45.6%) 
      42 (-33.8%) 
Tophus size changes from 
baseline (median) at wk 28  
              at final visit  
No.of patients (change in 
no. of tophi/patient, median 
%) 
                     mean % 
p Statistically significant difference versus placebo (p<0.05); a Statistically significant difference versus allopurinol 300/100 
mg QD (p<0.05); m Statistically significant difference versus febuxostat 120 mg QD (p<0.05); h Statistically significant 
difference versus febuxostat 240 mg QD (p<0.05); & Based on each subject’s actual prophylaxis period; denominator is the 
number of subjects with at least 1 prophylactic dose; (x) Comparisons between treatment groups made with a CMH test 
stratified by baseline renal function (serum creatinine <1.5 mg/dl vs. >1.5 mg/dl). (y) Comparisons between treatment groups 
were made with a two-way ANOVA with treatment and baseline renal function (serum creatinine <1.5 mg/dl vs. >1.5 mg/dl) 
as factors. Note: Baseline was defined as the average of serum urate measurements within the baseline window (Days -10 to 
1). If a subject had more than 3 measurements within the baseline window, the last 3 measurements were used. 
    28 (0) wk 28 
       -0.3 
   16 (0) wk 28 
      -0.4 
   38 (0) wk 28 
     -1.2 
14 (-53.2%) 
24 (-47.0%) 
    -0.4 
46 (-31.5%) 
61 (-22.6%) 
47 (0) wk 28 
Fig. 2 
APEX Study  - Subjects Requiring Treatment for Gout Flares 
The  FACT  Study  was  a  1-year,  multicenter,  double  blind,  randomized,  active-controlled,  parallel 
group, 3-arm Phase III study in patients with hyperuricaemia and gout.  
Patient population/treatment: 
© EMEA 2008 
29/51 
                      
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
      
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
1283  patients  were  screened  and  762  patients  (96  %  male,  4%  women)  were  randomized.  The 
ITT/safety  population  included  760  patients:  256  patients  on  febuxostat  80  mg  QD,  251  patients  on 
120 mg QD febuxostat and 253 patients on 300 mg QD allopurinol.  
Prophylaxis against gout flares was provided during weeks 1 through week 8 with naproxen (250 mg 
twice  daily,  BID)  or  colchicine  (0.6  mg  QD)  or  at  the  beginning  of  the  screening  phase  in  patients, 
who were receiving allopurinol or uricosuric agents prior to the study.   
Baseline disease characteristics: 
Baseline characteristics were comparable between groups. The average number of years with gout was 
11.9  years,  23-26%  of  patients  had  a  history  or  presence  of  tophi  and  42-45%  of  patients  had  a 
previous  urate-lowering  therapy.  Baseline  serum  urate  concentrations  were  similar  between  groups 
(9.80±1.24, 9.84±1.26 and 9.90±1.23 mg/dl in the 80 mg febuxostat, 120 mg febuxostat and 300 mg 
allopurinol  group,  respectively).  About  27%  of  patients  had  serum  urate  levels  <9  mg/dl,  34%  of 
patients  had  a  baseline  urate  concentration  between  9-10  mg/dl  and  41%  of  patients  had  a  baseline 
urate  concentration  of  >10  mg/dl.  The  number  of  patients  with  sUA  levels  <9  mg/dl  was  somewhat 
lower in the allopurinol group (25%) than in the febuxostat groups (27-29%). 
Outcome - Primary endpoint: 
The proportions of subjects whose last 3 serum urate levels were <6.0 mg/dl (primary endpoint) were 
53% (febuxostat 80 mg QD), 62% (febuxostat 120 mg QD), and 21% (allopurinol 300 mg QD). The 
proportion was significantly higher in the febuxostat groups than in the allopurinol group (P<0.001). 
Both,  febuxostat  80  mg  QD  and  febuxostat  120  mg  QD  were  statistically  superior  compared  to  the 
fixed 300 mg QD dose of allopurinol [Table 3]. 
Subgroup analysis revealed that the proportion of patients with the last 3 serum urate levels <6 mg/dl 
treated with febuxostat or allopurinol was dependent on the baseline sUA concentrations 
Table 3 
FACT Study  – Proportion of Subjects Whose Last 3 Serum Urate Levels were 
<6.0 mg/dL - ITT Subjects 
Last 3 Serum Urate Levels <6 
mg/dl 
Yes 
No 
Febuxostat 
80 mg QD 
n/N           % 
136/255       (53%)
119/255       (47%)
Febuxostat 
120 mg QD 
n/N           % 
154/250      
(62%) 
  96/250      
(38%) 
Allopurinol 
300 mg QD 
n/N          % 
 53/251     
(21%) 
198/251     
(79%) 
Difference in 
Proportions 
32% 
Febuxostat 80 mg vs. Allopurinol 
Febuxostat 120 mg vs. Allopurinol 
41% 
 a 97.5% confidence interval for the difference in proportions based on the normal approximation for the binomial 
distribution;  
 b P-values from the Fisher's exact test; & Statistical significance versus allopurinol 300 mg QD at the 0.05 level based on 
Hochberg's procedure for multiple comparisons 
97.5% CI a 
(23.1%, 41.3%) 
(31.5%, 49.5%) 
P-value a 
<0.001 b 
<0.001 b 
Outcome - Secondary endpoints [Table 4] 
The  proportion  of  subjects  whose  serum  urate  levels  were  <6  mg/dl  at  wk  52  (81%  and  82%  at 
febuxostat 80 mg or 120 mg QD, respectively, vs. 39% with allopurinol) and at final visit (74%, 81% 
vs. 36%) were statistically significantly greater in each of the febuxostat groups than in the allopurinol 
300  mg  QD  group  –  and  greater  than  in  the  primary  endpoint.  Similarly  as  in  the  PE,  no  dose-
dependence was apparent with the two tested febuxostat dose levels. 
Gout flares at baseline and during the obligatory 1-8 wk prophylaxis period were greater in the 120 mg 
febuxostat  group  than  in  the  80  mg  febuxostat  group  and  in  the  300/100  mg  allopurinol  group. 
However,  in  the  three  treatment  groups  there  was  a  marked  increase  in  gout  flares  at  weeks  9-12     
[Fig. 3], when the obligatory prophylaxis had been stopped and prophylaxis was left to the discretion 
of the investigators. 
© EMEA 2008 
30/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median percentage reduction in tophus area was 83% for subjects receiving 80 mg of febuxostat, 
66% for those receiving 120 mg of febuxostat, and 50% for those receiving allopurinol, but there was 
little/no change in the number of tophi over time in any of the treatment groups at 52 weeks. 
Table 4  
FACT Study  – Summary of results on secondary endpoints  
Secondary endpoints 
Febuxostat 
(80 mg/d) 
n/N           (%) 
Febuxostat 
(120 mg/d) 
n/N       (%) 
Allopurinol 
(300 mg/d) 
n/N       (%) 
Proportion of Patients with sUA at wk 52  
                           <6mg/dl  
                           <5mg/dl  
                           <4mg/dl  
Proportion of Patients with sUA at final visit    
<6mg/dl  
                           <5mg/dl  
                           <4mg/dl  
Percent change in sUA concentration from 
baseline at final visit (Mean ± SD) Wk 28 
                                                        Wk 52 
                                                 Final visit      
129/159 a     (81%) 
  87/159 a†    (55%) 
  36/159 a†    (23%) 
119/145 a    (82%) 
103/145 a   (71%) 
100/145 a   (45%) 
70/178      (39%) 
26/178 a    (15%)
  3/178 a     (2%) 
185/249 a     (74%) 
118/249 a†    (47%) 
  50/249 a†    (20%) 
193/242 a    (80%) 
160/242 a   (66%) 
100/242 a   (41%) 
88/242      (36%) 
31/242 a    (13%)
  4/242 a     (4%) 
-46.3 ± 15.7 a†     
-47.7 ± 17.5 a†     
-44.7 ± 19.1 a†     
-53.0 ± 18.2 a     
-53.0 ± 19.3  a      
 -51.5 ± 19.9 a  
-34.7 ± 12.9    
-34.7 ± 13.5    
-32.9 ± 15.3 
Proportion of pat. with sUA <6 mg/dl at last 
visit according to baseline conc.     
                   Baseline < 9 mg/dl 
                   Baseline    9 to 10 mg/dl 
                   Baseline >10 mg/dl 
Subjects requiring treatment for gout flares  
  Screening  
   Day 1-wk 8 (prophylaxis) 
   WK   8-16 
   WK 16-24 
   Wk  49-52 
   Wk   8-52 
Tophus changes from baseline at wk 52 
  No.  of patients (median % change in area) 
  No. of patients (median % change in no. of  
      tophi/patient) 
58/71   (82%) b 
   57/74   (77%)  b†† 
70/104 (67%) b 
 58/67   (87%) b 
 73/79   (92%) b 
     62/96   (65%) b 
  35/61    (57%)  
  31/78    (40%)  
  22/103  (21%) 
      20/255 (  8%) 
      55/255 (22%) 
     110/228 (48%) 
 75/210 (36%) 
13/167  (8%) 
147/228  (64%) 
28/250 (11%) 
     90/250 (36%) a 
    115/215 (53%)   
      69/191 (36%) 
     9/153  (6%)1 
150/215  (70%) 
20/251 (8%)  
  52/251  (21%) 
101/234 (43%) 
  67/216 (31%) 
   20/185  (11%) 
150/234  (64%) 
9/191 
32  (-83) 
           33  (0) 
26 (-66) 
          28 (-1) 
30 (-50) 
         35 (0) 
   a Statistically significant difference versus allopurinol 300 mg QD (p≤0.05) using ANOVA 
   † Statistically significant difference versus febuxostat 120 mg QD (p≤0.05) using ANOVA 
   b Statistically significant difference versus allopurinol 300 mg QD (p≤0.05) using Fisher's exact test 
   †† Statistically significant difference versus febuxostat 120 mg QD (p≤0.05) using Fisher's exact test 
Fig. 3 
Study FACT - Subjects Requiring Treatment for Gout Flares 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
© EMEA 2008 
31/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In both pivotal Phase III studies the number of patients, who discontinued prematurely, was high. The 
main reason was loss to follow-up. 
In  the  APEX,study  65%,  74%  and  64%  of  patients  treated  with  80,  120  or  240  mg  febuxostat 
completed the 28-week study compared to 79% on allopurinol.  Discontinuation due to gout flares in 
the febuxostat groups (80 mg/d: 13/267= 4.8%; 120 mg/d: 6/269=2.2%, 240 mg/d: 8/134=5.9%) was 
clearly greater than in the allopurinol group (1/268=0.37%). Discontinuation due to AEs was higher in 
the allopurinol group. 
In the FACT study only  66% and 61% patients treated with 80 or 120 mg febuxostat completed the 
52-week  study  compared  to  74% on  allopurinol.  Discontinuation due  to  the  incidence  of  gout  flares 
was markedly higher in the 120 mg febuxostat group (11%) than in the 80 mg febuxostat group (3.8%) 
and the allopurinol group (3.5%). Discontinuation due to AEs/gout flare in the febuxostat groups (80 
mg/d: 26/257 = 10.1%; 120 mg/d: 51/251 = 20.3%) was greater than in the allopurinol group (17/254 
= 6.7%). 
The proportion of subjects (ITT population) whose serum urate levels were <6 mg/dl at wk 2 and wk 
52  was  similar,  demonstrating  that  a  near  maximum  effect  is  reached  already  after  2  weeks  of 
treatment with either febuxostat or allopurinol.  
Generally, it is agreed that both pivotal studies demonstrate superiority of either daily 80 mg or 120 
mg febuxostat vs. a fixed dose of 300 mg allopurinol daily regarding the primary endpoint, which is to 
be expected if the potency of febuxostat is greater than that of allopurinol. However, allopurinol was 
not  up-titrated  (if  the  primary  target  was  not  met),  which  would  allow  a  better  judgement  on  the 
difference in potency of febuxostat and allopurinol. The maximal recommended daily dose according 
to the literature is 800 mg/day [Goodman & Gilmen, 2001; Schlesinger, 2004; Wortman, 2005]. Thus, 
superiority  of  febuxostat  versus  allopurinol  could  only  mean  that  80  mg  or  120  mg  febuxostat  once 
daily are superior versus the conventionally used daily dose of 300 mg allopurinol. 
An  allopurinol  response  rate  of  at  least  60%  was  expected  (Amendment  1,  APEX  study  )  based  on 
published  studies,  but  not  observed.  The  maximum  response  in  allopurinol  treated  patients  (primary 
endpoint) was 37-40%, which was achieved only in patients with baseline sUA of <9 mg/dl.  
In both studies prophylaxis against acute gout with naproxen or colchicine was performed for only 8 
weeks (as outlined in the study protocols), and thereafter flares of gout were treated according to the 
investigators  judgement.  However,  withdrawal  of  prophylaxis  was  initially  accompanied  by  a 
markedly increased incidence of gout flares in all groups (greatest in the 120 mg febuxostat group), 
which  declined  over  time,  indicating  that  the  selected  time  period  of  ‘intended’  8-week  prophylaxis 
was apparently to short (see later section on prophylaxis). 
Efficacy in the combined pivotal Phase III studies (sUA levels <6 mg/ml) was significantly greater in  
Caucasians compared to non-Caucasians (not further specified) in the 120 mg treatment groups (68% 
vs. 46%). 
In the Phase III pivotal study CXX-010 Quality of Life (QOL) assessments resulted in statistically  
significantly greater  improvements  from  baseline  for  the  allopurinol 300  mg  QD  treatment  group  as 
compared to the febuxostat 80 and 120 mg QD group (most notably vs. 120 mg) at the final visit. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Please refer to the pharmacokinetic evaluation in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
•  Supportive studies 
Long-term studies 
Two  open-label  long-term  studies  were  conducted, which  both  had  not  been  finalised  at  the  time  of 
CHMP opinion. Efficacy results were described in two interim analyses in each study.  
© EMEA 2008 
32/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  TMX-xx-005  was  Phase  2,  open-label,  multicenter  study  designed  for  subjects  who  had 
completed 4 weeks of double blind dosing in study TMX-xx-004 and had not experienced any serious 
study-drug related adverse event. 120 subjects were planned, 116 subjects were enrolled (23 centers in 
the  USA)  and  randomized  to  40  mg  febuxostat  (n=10),  80  mg  febuxostat  (n=83)  and  120  mg 
febuxostat (n=23). 
The study is ongoing up to 5 years, and the results are described in two Interim analyses (at 2 and 4 
years of treatment). The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects whose serum urate 
levels decreased to or was maintained at <6.0 mg/dl. The secondary efficacy variable was the percent 
reduction in serum urate levels from baseline using the enzymatic determinations.  
The efficacy data up to 2 years (1st Interim analysis) showed that the mean proportion of all subjects 
with enzymatic sUA levels <6.0 mg/dl (primary endpoint) was 78% (63/81 patients) at week 52 and 
77%  (54/70  patients)  at  week  104.  The  effect  was  greater  at  80  mg  (week  28-104)  and  at  120  mg 
(week  104)  than  at  40  mg  febuxostat  QD.  The  mean  percent  reduction  (SD)  of  sUA  from  baseline 
(secondary endpoint) was  -47.8% at week 52 and  -47.3% at week 104 for all patients. Mean percent 
reduction of sUA from baseline at Week 104 was greater at 80 mg (-46.73%) and 120 mg febuxostat (-
54.68%)  than  at  40  mg  febuxostat  (-38,9%).  The  efficacy  data  up  to  4  years  (2nd  Interim  analysis) 
showed that 84% (54/64 patients) and 90% (52/58 patients) of all subjects (combined febuxostat dose 
groups) had enzymatic sUA levels <6mg/dl after 3 years and 4 years on treatment, respectively. Data 
on the secondary endpoint were not given for years 3 and 4.   
The  incidence  of  gout  flares  during  the  first  month  of  prophylaxis  was  low  (9%,  all  patients),  but 
increased to 45% (49/109 patients) during month >1 –3 and declined to about 14% at week 104. The 
incidence of gout flares in the second interim analysis was shown in 2-month intervals up to 48 month, 
which did not properly show the low incidence of gout flares during the first month with prophylaxis. 
The incidence of gout flares from month 26 to 48 ranged from 1-6% in the reported 2-month intervals. 
Overall, this is the only submitted long-term study in which patients have been treated up to 3 years 
(64  patients)  and  4  years  (58  patients).  The  small  number  of  patients  treated  with  febuxostat  do  not 
sufficiently  support  the  Applicant’s  overall  claim  that  the  results  from  study  TMX-xx-005 
demonstrated the ability of febuxostat to lower and maintain serum urate levels for up to 4 years.  
Study  Cxx-021  was  a  Phase  III,  open-label,  multicenter,  randomized,  allopurinol-controlled,  safety 
extension  study  for  subjects  who  had  completed  the  febuxostat  Phase  III  studies.  The  study  was 
initially intended for 2 years, but extended to continue for up to 3 years (study ongoing). 
The objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term safety of febuxostat 80 mg and febuxostat 
120 mg once daily doses required to reduce serum urate levels to <6.0 mg/dl in subjects with gout, as 
compared to allopurinol. 
1086 subjects were enrolled (in 173 centers in the United States and Canada) out of 1280 subjects who 
completed the 28-week study (APEX) or the 52-week study (FACT) and randomized to 80 mg  
febuxostat (n=649), 120 mg febuxostat (n=292) or 300/100 mg allopurinol (n=145).  
64% (403/633 patients) at initial treatment allocation to 80 mg febuxostat, 60% (171/286 patients) on 
initial  treatment  allocation  to  120  mg  febuxostat  and  62%  (83/138  patients)  on  initial  treatment 
allocation to allopurinol had sUA <6 mg/dL.  
The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of subjects whose serum urate levels decreased to or 
was maintained at <6.0 mg/dl.  
At  1,  12,  20  and  22  month  81%  (501/620),  89%  (374/420),  88%  (280/320)  and  86%  (198/230)  of 
patients in the 80 mg febuxostat group responded to treatment (sUA <6 mg/dl), respectively. Only 57 
patients are listed at month 24 (on going study).  
At  1,  12,  20  and  22  month  87%  (241/277),  89%  (143/167),  84%  (134/159)  and  93%  (25/27)  of 
patients  in  the  120  mg  febuxostat  group  responded  to  treatment  (sUA<6  mg/dl),  respectively.  No 
patients are listed at month 24. At 1, 12, 20 and 22 month 46% (64/139), 82% (36/44), 81% (22/27) 
and  100%  (8/8)  of  patients  in  the  300/100  mg  allopurinol  group  responded  to  treatment  (sUA  <6 
mg/dl), respectively. No patients are listed at month 24. 
The  study  design,  which  allowed  that  a  subject  was  discontinued  from  the  study  if  the  serum  urate 
remained >6.0 mg/dl after a switch in therapy, removed apparent ‘non-responder’. Thus, the outcome 
(maintenance of sUA >6mg/dl) does not reflect a true outcome for the total study population.  
© EMEA 2008 
33/51 
 
 
 
 
 
The percentages of subjects on initial treatment assignment (before any switch in medication) whose 
serum  urate  levels  were  <6mg/dL  at  the  time  of  Final  Visit  were  71%  (455/637  patients),  80% 
(227/283) and 32% (45/141) in the febuxostat 80mg, febuxostat 120mg, and allopurinol 300/100 mg 
treatment  groups,  respectively.  The  percentages  of  subjects  on  initial  treatment  assignment  whose 
serum  urate  levels  were  <6  mg/dl  at  the  time  of  Final  Visit  was  similar  as  observed  in  the  pivotal 
studies (see Tab. 2, Tab. 4). Regarding the febuxostat effect on gout flares and tophi see below. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Reduction of sUA: 
Main Studies: The efficacy of febuxostat in the gout population studies (PE, secondary endpoint sUA 
≤ 6 mg/dl, percent change of sUA from baseline, Tab. 1-4) is sufficiently demonstrated.  
Long-term extension (LTE) studies: The efficacy of febuxostat, shown in patients on initial treatment 
assignment, is apparently maintained up to 20 months. However, assessment of the LTE studies relies 
on  Interim  Reports.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  submit  the  finalized  study  reports  of  the  two 
ongoing LTE studies (TMX-01-005,Cxx-021) to the CHMP. 
In all clinical febuxostat studies, a fixed allopurinol dose of 300 mg QD was used (except in the case 
of  renal  impairment,  where  the  dose  was  reduced  to  100mg  QD)  without  any  attempt  to  up-titrate 
allopurinol in `non-responders`.  
Gout flares: 
The medicinal product`s potency  in lowering sUA levels resulted in a high frequency of gout flares 
during  the  first  months  of  treatment  leading  to  a  high  dropout  rate  from  the  pivotal  studies  and 
worsened QOL (assessed using a non-validated QOL tool). 
© EMEA 2008 
34/51 
 
 
 
Prophylaxis: 
Further  to  CHMP  comments  in  the  D120  LoQ,  the  applicant  considers  in  the  response  to  the  D120 
LoQ  that  the  prophylaxis  of  8  weeks  may  be  too  short  and  agrees  with  the  CHMP  suggestion  to 
recommend the duration of prophylaxis for 6 months. Recommendation of prophylaxis for 6 months 
has been included in the SPC.   
Dose titration: 
The Applicant proposed in the response to the D120 LoQ that febuxostat treatment is started with 80 
mg/d and increased to 120 mg after 2-4 weeks if the primary goal (serum urate below 6 mg/dl) is not 
met. The question whether the frequency of gout flares could be reduced by starting treatment with a 
lower febuxostat dose (e.g. 40 mg/d) than used in the pivotal Phase III studies and the use of a slow 
up-titration  is  not  sufficiently  addressed.  This  question  can  probably  only  be  answered  if  an 
appropriate  dose-titration  study  is  performed.  As  requested  by  CHMP  the  Applicant  commits  to 
perform a post-marketing dose-titration study to clarify whether patients would benefit from a dose-
titration (starting with 40 mg febuxostat/d) and/or a slow up-titration. A reduction in the incidence of 
gout  flares  would  indeed  be  a  major  benefit  for  patients.  A  preliminary  study  synopsis  has  been 
presented.  
Reduction of gout flares after long-term treatment: 
The reduction of gout flares is a primary treatment goal.  
Main studies: In the 28-week APEX study  about 15% of febuxostat treated patients required treatment 
for  gout  flares  at  weeks  24-28  (Tab.  2).  In  the  52-week  FACT  study    6-8%  of  febuxostat  treated 
patients required treatment for gout flares at weeks 49-52 (Tab. 4). 
In  the  Extension  study  Cxx-021the  incidence  of  gout  flares  peaked  in  month  2-4  of  febuxostat 
treatment  (and  was  higher  at  120  mg  febuxostat  QD  than  at  80  mg  febuxostat  QD)  and  declined 
thereafter. The incidence of gout flares in subjects on the originally assigned febuxostat doses (80 or 
120  mg  QD)  at  month  >16-18,  month  >18-20,  month  >20-22  and  month  >22-24  was  3.0%,  2.7%, 
3.0%, and 2.7%, respectively (combined data from 80 and 120 mg febuxostat). 
Tophi: 
Main  Studies:  The  median  %  change  in  tophus  area  in  the  28-week  APEX  study  in  the  febuxostat 
group was not significantly different from the placebo group and somewhat greater in the febuxostat 
groups in the 52-week FACT study (see Table 2, Table 4). The clinical method of assessing tophi size 
is  very  unreliable,  with  enormous  variations  between  assessments  for  the  same  assessor  as  well  as 
between  assessors.  Tophi  size  evaluation  is  not  considered  to  be  a  robust  clinical  endpoint  in  these 
phase III studies. 
In the Extension study Cxx-021(approximately 20% had a tophus at entry to the pivotal study) 54% of 
subjects initially assigned to receive febuxostat 80 mg or 120 mg showed complete resolution of tophi 
at Month 24. 
In summary, the efficacy issues raised in the D180 LoOI (gout flares and dose titration) are resolved. 
© EMEA 2008 
35/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The safety analysis for febuxostat is mainly based on the US clinical febuxostat safety data base which 
included data from 24 Phase I studies and 5 Phase II/III studies including 2531 patients.  
The mean duration of dosing was 379.7 days. Across the Phase I, II, III studies a total of 1678 subjects 
were  exposed  to  febuxostat  80  mg  and  1077  were  exposed  to  febuxostat  120  mg.  The  duration  of 
dosing (median [range]) in the febuxostat 80 mg was 187 [1-1724] days and in the febuxostat 120 mg 
groups 201 [1.1675] days.   
In  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  1170  patients  treated  with  febuxostat  vs.  519  patients  treated  with 
allopurinol were analysed for efficacy (ITT population). The mean cumulative exposure to febuxostat 
and the active comparator (allopurinol) was 208 days vs 233 days, respectively. 
In  the  LTE  studies  1143  subjects  received  febuxostat  vs.  178  patients  treated  with  allopurinol.  The 
mean  cumulative  exposure  to  febuxostat  and  the  active  comparator  was  618  days  vs.  274  days, 
respectively.  
As  outlined  by  the  Applicant,  due  to  lower  doses  (up  to  40  mg),  and  to  the  fact  that  not  only  gout 
patients but also hyperuricemic patients were included in Japanese clinical studies available at the time 
of MAA submission,  Japanese studies were only considered supportive for safety, and only adverse 
events  of  rash,  serious  adverse  events  and  premature  terminations  due  to  adverse  events  have  been 
included in the current safety evaluation. 
The majority of subjects included in the Phase II and III studies were male (90-95%), Caucasian (76-
87%) and 45-65 years of age (56-59%). Over half of the subjects were obese, with a BMI ≥30 kg/m2. 
Approximately half of the subjects had a medical history of hypertension, approximately one third had 
impaired renal function (defined as calculated Clcr  (creatinine clearance) <80 ml/min), and one third 
had hyper-lipidaemia. The overall demographics and disposition of the subset of subjects included in 
the LTE studies remained similar to those reported in the pivotal Phase III studies.  
It was stated in the Applicant’s summary of safety, that at baseline more subjects in the LTE studies in 
the febuxostat group had a history of CHF (n=24, 2%) compared to none in the allopurinol group, and 
more  subjects  in  the  febuxostat  group  had  impaired  renal  function  (n=29,  3%)  compared  to  the 
allopurinol group (n=1, <1%).  
•  Adverse events 
Treatment-emergent AEs  
In the pivotal Phase III studies the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events in the febuxostat 80 
mg  (74%)  and  120  mg  (72%)  treatment  groups  was  statistically  significantly  lower  (p  =  0.028  and 
0.002, respectively) compared with the allopurinol 300/100 mg treatment group (80%), which was not 
considered  clinically  relevant.  In  the  long-term  studies  the  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  adverse 
events  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg  (74%)  and  120  mg  (69%),  was  higher  than  in  the  allopurinol  group 
(57%). 
Treatment-related AEs  
In the pivotal Phase III studies the overall, unadjusted incidence of treatment-related adverse events in 
the pivotal Phase III studies was 23%, 21%, and 19% in the febuxostat 80 mg, 120 mg, and allopurinol 
300/ 100 mg treatment groups, respectively, and 29% and 23% in the febuxostat 240 mg and placebo 
treatment  groups,  respectively.  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the 
febuxostat 80 mg, 120 mg, and allopurinol 300/100 mg groups for the overall incidence of treatment-
related events or for specific events. Numerically higher incidences of treatment-related diarrhoea and 
nausea  were  noted  in  the  febuxostat  240  mg  group  compared  with  the  other  treatment  groups.  The 
majority  of  treatment-related  adverse  events  in  each  treatment  group  were  mild  or  moderate  in 
severity. 
The 10 most commonly reported treatment-related adverse events in pivotal Phase III studies during 
febuxostat  treatment  (regardless  of  dose)  included:  diarrhoea,  headache,  nausea,  liver  function  test 
© EMEA 2008 
36/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
abnormal,  dizziness,  arthralgia,  dyspepsia,  hepatic  enzyme  increased,  constipation  and  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) increased. 
In the LTE studies the overall incidence of treatment-related adverse events was higher in the 80 and 
120 mg febuxostat groups (14.7%, 12.6%) than in the allopurinol group (8.4%). In all febuxostat dose 
groups the incidence of treatment-related AEs was lower than that reported for the pivotal Phase III 
studies (except liver function and renal function analyses). The overall incidence of treatment-related 
adverse  events  per  100  PY  was  similar  across  treatment  groups  and  lower  in  the  LTE  studies 
compared with the pivotal Phase III studies, primarily due to the lower frequency of visits in the LTE 
studies. 
The  10  most  common  treatment-related  adverse  events  in  LTE  studies  by  preferred  term  during 
febuxostat  treatment  (regardless  of  dose)  were:  hepatic  enzyme  increased,  ALT  increased,  liver 
function  test  abnormal,  AST  increased,  hyperlipidaemia,  blood  creatinine  increased,  nephrolithiasis, 
arthritis, blood urea increased, and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) increased. 
•  Serious adverse events/deaths/other significant events 
Death:  Twelve  deaths  (11  male,  1  female)  have  been  reported  up  to  February  2006  (US  safety  data 
base) during treatment with febuxostat. None of the 12 deaths was considered related to study drug by 
the  investigator.  No  death  was  observed  in  the  Japanese  studies.  No  deaths  were  reported  in  the 
febuxostat  40  mg  and  240  mg  groups,  the  allopurinol  300/100  mg  group,  or  the  placebo  treatment 
group. 
4  deaths  occurred  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  FACT  study:  2  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg  treatment  group 
(retroperitoneal  haemorrhage;  respiratory  failure)  and  2  in  the  febuxostat  120  mg  treatment  group 
(respiratory  failure/anoxic  encephalopathy;  colon  cancer  metastatic).  8  deaths  occurred  in  the  LTE 
studyCxx-021:  5  in  the  80  mg  groups  (cardiorespiratory  arrest/cardiac  failure/congestive  respiratory 
failure;  sepsis;  colon  cancer  metastatic;  myocardial  infarction;  acute  myocardial  infarction)  and  3  in 
the 120 mg groups (acute myocardial infarction; myocardial infarction; retroperitoneal haemorrhage). 
9 of the 12 deaths were considered to be potentially cardiovascular in nature. 
The  overall  all-cause  mortality  rate  per  100  PY  was  0.38  in  the  febuxostat  total  group  and  0  in  the 
allopurinol  group.  The  exposure  was  different  (febuxostat:  2605  PY  vs.  allopurinol  467  PY).  The 
upper limits of the 95% CIs for death rate were similar in the febuxostat total (0.751) and allopurinol 
(0.770) groups. 
There  was  one  additional  death  due  to  myocardial  infarction  in  study  Cxx-021after  the  cut-off  date 
February 2006 (on 80 mg febuxostat). 
Other serious SAEs 
The incidence of treatment-emergent SAE in the pivotal Phase III studies presented by MedDRA was 
5%  in  the  total  febuxostat  groups,  5% in  the  allopurinol  group  vs.1%  in  the  placebo  group.  Cardiac 
disorders  SAEs  events  occurred  at  an  incidence  of  >1%  (including  cardiac  failure,  myocardial 
infarction atrial fibrillation, chest pain). Only one SAE (one case of renal impairment) was judged as 
treatment-related SAE in the pivotal Phase III studies. It was emphasized, that the majority of study 
subjects had underlying cardiovascular disease or risk factors.  
The treatment-emergent incidence of SAE in the LTE studies was 10.5 % in the total febuxostat group 
vs. 7.5% in the allopurinol group.  The incidence of SAE in the LTE studies presented by MedDRA 
HLT (high level terms) showed cardiac disorders as serious adverse events occurring at an incidence 
of >1%. The incidence of Coronary Artery Disorders NEC was 1% in the total febuxostat group vs. 
0.6% in the allopurinol group. The incidence of Ischemic Coronary Artery Disorders was 1.5% in the 
total febuxostat group vs. 0.6% in the allopurinol group. A further analysis of cardiovascular AEs is 
presented below according to APTC (Antiplatelet Trialists Collaboration) criteria.  
In both the pivotal Phase III and the LTE studies, the incidence of serious adverse events in subjects 
receiving treatment with febuxostat was 11.6 and 9.5 per 100 PY for the febuxostat total groups in the 
pivotal Phase III and LTE studies, respectively, and similar to the allopurinol group (8.1 and 11.3 per 
100 PY in the pivotal Phase III and LTE studies, respectively.  
© EMEA 2008 
37/51 
 
 
 
 
AEs by organ system and AEs of special interest 
Cardiovascular AEs: 
The  Applicant  presented  an  analysis  of  cardiovascular  AEs  according  to  the  APTC  (Antiplatelet 
Trialists  Collaboration)  classification  as  primary  APTC  events  (CV  death,  non-fatal  myocardial 
infarction,  non-fatal  stroke,  non-fatal  cardiac  arrest)  and  secondary  APTC  events  (angina, 
revascularization, transient ischemic attack, venous and peripheral arterial vascular thrombotic events, 
non-fatal congestive heart failure) for both the pivotal Phase III studies and the LTE studies. The data 
were  presented  as  incidence  rates  plus  95%  CI  and  per  100  patients  years  (PY)  to  account  for  the 
differences  in  exposure.  For  the  open-label  LTE  studies  safety  assessment  all  cardiovascular  safety 
events were reviewed and adjudicated in a blinded manner by an external Cardiologist. 
In the pivotal Phase III studies the incidence of primary overall APTC events (combined incidence of 
cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, non-fatal cardiac arrest) were 
numerically higher in the febuxostat 80 and 120 mg groups (0.8% and 1.0%, respectively) than in the 
allopurinol  group  (0.2%),  [Table  5].  Using  analyses  per  100  PY  of  exposure,  the  overall  incidences 
were at least numerically higher for febuxostat 80 mg (1.3 per 100 PY) and 120 mg groups (1.6 per 
100 PY) than in the allopurinol group (0.3 per 100 PY), [Table 6]. 
Table 5 
Incidence  Rates  and  Confidence  Intervals  for  Subjects  with  Investigator-
Reported  Treatment-  Emergent  Primary  APTC  Events  in  the  Pivotal  Phase  III 
APEX and FACT Studies   
  Note: Subjects with one or more adverse events within a APTC criterion are counted only once in that criterion. 
Table 6 
Subjects  with  Primary  APTC  Adverse  events  (investigator  Reported)  by  APTC 
Criterion by 100 Patient-Years ofExposure in pivotal Phase III APEX and FACT 
Studies   
Primary APTC 
Events 
Placebo 
(n=134) 
PY - 59.9 
Febuxostat total 
(N=1177) 
PY – 671.1 
Overall 
Cardiovascular death 
Non-fatal myocardial 
infarction  
Non-fatal stroke 
Non-fatal cardiac arrest 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
n (RPY) 
9  (1.30) 
3 (0.4) 
5 (0.7) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
Febuxostat 
80 mg 
(N=523) 
PY – 322.6 
n (RPY) 
4  (1.30) 
2  (0.6) 
2 (0.6) 
0 
0 
Febuxostat 120 
mg (N=520) 
PY – 304.5 
n (RPY) 
5  (1.6) 
1 (0.30) 
3 (1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.3) 
Febuxostat 
240mg 
(N=134) 
PY – 54.0 
n (RPY) 
0 
Allopurinol 
(300/100 mg) 
(N=521) 
PY – 333.7 
n (RPY) 
1   (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
  Abbreviations: The percentages are the rate per 100 patient-years of exposure; N, number of patients dosed; PY, total patient-year of  
                           exposure. 
In  the  LTE  studies  the  incidence  of  primary  overall  APTC  (combined  incidence  of  cardiovascular 
death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke) events were numerically higher in the febuxostat 80 
and 120 mg groups (2.2% and 1.7%, respectively) or 2.62% all febuxostat doses than in the allopurinol 
group  (0.56%)  [Table  7].  Using  analyses  per  100  PY  of  exposure,  the  overall  incidences  were 
numerically higher for febuxostat 80 mg (1.4 per 100 PY) and 120 mg (1.3 per 100 PY) group or 1.4 
per 100 PY for all febuxostat groups than in the allopurinol group (0.7 per 100 PY), [Table 8]. 
© EMEA 2008 
38/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
Incidence  Rates  and  Confidence  Intervals  for  Subjects  with  Investigator-
Reported Treatment-Emergent Primary APTC Events in the LTE Studies (to 8 
February 2006) 
Table 8 
Incidence  Rates  and  Confidence  Intervals  for  Subjects  with  Investigator-
Reported Treatment-Emergent Primary APTC Events per 100 Patient-Years in 
the LTE Studies (to 8 February 2006) 
N  =  number  of  subjects  dosed;  PY  =  patient  year;  RPY  =  rate  per  100  patient-years  of  exposure; 
APTC = Antiplatelet Trialists’ Collaboration. 
Studies included: Cxx-021and TMX-01-005. 
In  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  the  incidence  of  primary  and  secondary  overall  APTC  events  were 
numerically higher in the febuxostat 80 and 120 mg groups (2.5% and 2.1%, respectively) than in the 
allopurinol  group  (1.3%).  Using  analyses  per  100  PY  of  exposure,  the  overall  incidences  were 
numerically  higher for febuxostat 80 mg and 120 mg groups (3.2 and 3.6 per 100 PY, respectively) 
than in the allopurinol group (2.1 per 100 PY).  
In  the  LTE  studies  the  incidence  of  primary  and  secondary  overall  APTC  events  were  numerically 
higher in the febuxostat 80 and 120 mg groups (4.07% and 4.02%, respectively) than in the allopurinol 
group (2.25%) Using analyses per 100 PY of exposure, the overall incidences per 100 PY were similar 
for febuxostat 80 mg (2.9), 120 mg groups (3.3) and allopurinol (3.0). 
In  the  response  to  the  major  objection  of  the  CHMP  D120  LoQ  the  Applicant  concluded  that  the 
increased incidence of primary APTC events seen in the febuxostat groups compared to allopurinol in 
the  Phase  III  studies  (0.8%  vs.  0.2%;  1.3  vs.  0.3  events  per  100  PY)  and  LTE  studies  (2.62%  vs. 
0.56%;  1.4  vs.  0.7  events)  is  most  likely  due  to  chance.  This  statement  was  based  on  the  following 
arguments: APTC events in the pivotal Phase III studies and LTE revealed no statistically significant 
difference between treatment groups. Kaplan-Meier plots showed no significant differences between 
the treatment groups. A meta-regression analysis of literature data on major cardiovascular events in 6 
pooled studies was 1.26 per 100 PYs (99% CI, 1.15-1.37) vs. 1.26 per 100 PYs (95% CI, 0.51-2.02) 
for febuxostat. The adjusted total mortality rate of 10 pooled studies was 1.59 per 100 PYs (95% CI, 
1.37-1.82), vs. 1.51 per 100 PYs for febuxostat (95% CI, 1.09-1.92). In the new updated analysis of 
the LTE studies (up to 02.2007) 2 additional events (1 myocardial infarction in the febuxostat group 
and 1 in the allopurinol group) were included in the analysis (primary APTC events 2.71% vs. 1.12%; 
1.20 vs. 1.19 events per 100 PYs).  
Although the incidence of primary APCT events in the 2 pivotal Phase III studies (APEX, FACT) in 
the  febuxostat  group  was  not  significantly  different  from  those  observed  with  the  comparator 
© EMEA 2008 
39/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
allopurinol, the incidence of these serious AEs was numerically greater in the febuxostat group than in 
the  allopurinol  group.  The  incidence  of  primary  APCT  events  in  the  LTE  studies  was  numerically 
greater  in  the  febuxostat  group  (2.7%)  than  in  the  allopurinol  group  (1.12%),  but  the  incidence  was 
about equal when calculated per 100 PY (e.g. including the different exposure to the drugs).   
Risk  factors  for  cardiovascular  AEs  were  analysed,  as  requested.  Risk  factors  with  a  significant 
association  with  APTC  events  were:  medical  history  of  atherosclerotic  disease,  medical  history  of 
myocardial  infarction,  baseline  congestive  heart  failure,  age  >60  at  baseline  (Fishers  exact  test: 
p=0.001 for all 4 groups). A significant association was not found for hypertension, stroke, diabetes 
and hyperlipidaemia (Fishers exact test: p between 0.066 to 0.081).  
To  account  for  this  fact  a  warning  has  been  included  (section  4.4)  as  suggested  by  CHMP,  and 
information has been added to section 4.8 (undesirable effects) in the SPC. A commitment to perform 
a  postmarketing  study  for  monitoring  cardiovascular  side  effects  is  essential.  The  Applicant  has 
provided a preliminary study synopsis in the response to the D180 LoOI. The study synopsis has been 
included in the Risk management plan.  
Hypertension:  
The incidence of hypertension-type treatment-emergent and treatment-related adverse events was low 
in  both  the  pivotal  Phase  III  and  LTE  studies  and  no  clinically  meaningful  differences  between 
treatment groups were observed.  
Renal AEs 
Pivotal  studies:  Mild  renal  insufficiency  (defined  as  calculated  Clcr  <80  mL/min)  was  noted  in  34-
38% of subjects across treatment groups in the pivotal Phase III studies at baseline (45 placebo; 180 
allopurinol  and  418  febuxostat  and  2-5%  of  subjects  across  treatment  groups  had  moderate  renal 
insufficiency (serum creatinine >1.5 mg/dl; exclusion criteria in the APEX study). There were a small 
number of reports of renal failure and individual cases with glomerulopathy and nephrosis during the 
clinical development program, which were not considered as treatment related.  
Oedema  NEC  (4%  in  the  febuxostat  groups  vs.  <1%  in  the  placebo  group)  was  the  most  common 
treatment-emergent  AE  (and  was  explained  by  the  Applicant  as  likely  due  to  the  use  of  NSAIDs/ 
calcium channel blockers). A shift to high in serum creatinine was reported in the febuxostat 80 mg, 
120  mg,  240  mg,  allopurinol  300/100  mg,  and  placebo  groups  (8%,  12%,  11%,  12%  and  13%, 
respectively).  The  shift  to  high  for  BUN  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg,  120  mg,  240  mg  and  allopurinol 
300/100  mg  groups  was  19%,  19%,  24%  and  17%,  respectively  compared  with  13%  for  placebo. 
Furthermore, a higher incidence of ‘potentially concerning’ BUN values was observed at 120 mg and 
240 mg febuxostat than in the placebo group or allopurinol group (BUN increases >31 mg/dl was 7%, 
9%, 16% in the 80, 120 and 240 mg febuxostat groups, 7% in the allopurinol and 6% in the placebo 
group.  
The claim that the increase in the incidences of high BUN in the pivotal phase III studies was partly 
due to NSAIDs/COX-2 inhibitors used for the treatment of gout flares could not be substantiated. The 
claim that oedema NEC was partly due to NSAIDs/COX-2 inhibitors used for the treatment of gout 
flares could not be substantiated.   
LTE  studies:  No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  observed  between  treatment  groups.  A 
statistically  significantly  higher  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg  group  than  in  the 
allopurinol 300/100 mg group shifted at some time during treatment to high in BUN.  
Renal xanthine crystal/calculi formation  
Xanthine crystal urinalysis by x-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy 
(FTIR) were performed in 2 Phase 1 studies and 2 Phase 2 studies. Four subjects (3 febuxostat 50 mg 
QD and 1 febuxostat 30 mg BID) had a total of 5 urine sediment samples with indeterminate results 
(very small possible traces of xanthine crystals) in one of the Phase 1 study. Each of the 3 subjects in 
the febuxostat 50 mg QD group had reports of very small possible traces of xanthine crystals through 
FTIR.  With  new  a  40  mg  dose  panel  and  a  repeat  of  the  50  mg  panel  with  new  subjects  all  urine 
samples were negative for xanthine crystals. Urinary xanthine concentration in these 4 subjects were 
shown, as requested in the D180 LoOI. In two subjects, who received a single dose of 50 mg QD, the 
urinary  xanthine  concentration  measured  6-12  h  after  dosing  was  rather  high  (14.2  mg/dL  and  12.9 
© EMEA 2008 
40/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mg/dL). No crystals were found in the Phase II studies. No crystals were found microscopically in the 
urine of subjects treated with febuxostat 300 mg. 
High  urine  xanthine  Cmean,24  values  were  observed  at  120  mg  febuxostat  QD  (11.5  mg/dl)  in  the 
dose escalation study TMX-01-99-001. 
In  subjects  with  renal  impairment  the  maximum  urine  xanthine  concentrations  (control  26.7  mg/dL, 
mild renal impairment 13.1 mg/dL, moderate renal impairment 12.1 mg/dL, severe renal impairment 
9.4  mg/dL)  and  Cmean,24  values  (with  the  exception  of  the  Cmean,24  value  in  patients  with  mild 
renal  impairment;  control  5.69  mg/dL;  mild  renal  impairment:  6.89  mg/dL)  following  febuxostat 
treatment were lower in patients with renal impairment compared to normal renal function. It appears 
that patients with renal impairment are not at greater risk of developing xanthine stones as a result of 
increased urine xanthine levels.  
Overall,  it  is  agreed  that  patients  in  whom  the  rate  of  urate  formation  is  greatly  increased  (e.g. 
malignant  disease  and  its  treatment,  Lesch-Nyhan  syndrome)  may  be  at  increased  risk  of  xanthine 
precipitation. The inclusion of the revised Warning in the SPC (section 4.4) is acceptable to CHMP. 
Hepatic AEs 
Pivotal  Phase  III  studies:  The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  hepatic  adverse  events  was 
comparable  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg,  120  mg,  allopurinol  300/100  mg  and  febuxostat  240  mg 
treatment  groups  (7%,  5%,  6%  and  5%,  respectively),  and  numerically  lower  in  the  placebo  group 
(2%).  The  incidence  of  abnormal  liver  function  analyses,  which  was  6%,  5%,  5%  and  4%  in  the 
febuxostat  80  mg,  120  mg,  allopurinol  300/100  mg  and  febuxostat  240  mg  treatment  groups, 
respectively, and numerically lower (2%) in the placebo group. Approximately one-half of the hepatic 
adverse  events  were  considered  treatment-related.  The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-related  hepatic 
adverse events was 3%, 4%, 4%, 3% and <1% in the febuxostat 80 mg, 120 mg, allopurinol 300/100 
mg, febuxostat 240 mg and placebo groups, respectively. 
Shifts  in  hepatic  parameters  in  the  Phase  III  studies  were  observed  in  all  treatment  groups.  The 
incidence  of  ALT  ≥2×ULN  was  13%,  13%  and  8%  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg,  120  mg  and  240  mg 
groups, 10% in the allopurinol 300/100 mg group and 6% in the placebo group. With respect to ALT 
≥3×ULN,  the  incidence  was  4%,  5%  and  2%  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg,  120  mg  and 240  mg  groups, 
respectively, 2% in the allopurinol 300/100 mg group, and <1% in the placebo group. The difference 
between the febuxostat 120 mg and allopurinol 300/100 mg groups was statistically significant. A total 
of  9  subjects  (<1%)  in  the  febuxostat  40-240  mg  QD  group  and  6  subjects  (1%)  in  the  allopurinol 
300/100 mg QD group experienced an ALT ≥5xULN. Finally, 3 subjects in the febuxostat 40-240 mg 
QD group and 1 subject in the allopurinol 300/100 mg QD group experienced an ALT >10 x ULN. 
The  patterns  for  AST  increases  and  concurrent  ALT  and  AST  increases  were  comparable.  Few 
subjects had ALT ≥2×ULN concurrently with bilirubin ≥2 mg/dl (3 patients on febuxostat, 1 patient 
on  allopurinol)  and  2  patients  had  ALT  ≥10×ULN  with  bilirubin  ≥2  mg/dl  (febuxostat  group  only). 
Discontinuation  because  of  abnormal  liver  function  test  (including  increases  in  ALT,  AST,  blood 
bilirubin, hepatic enzymes and abnormal liver function test) in the pivotal Phase III studies occurred in 
2% of patients in the febuxostat groups and in <1% in the allopurinol group (treatment related in 1% 
and <1%, respectively). 
There was no apparent dose-dependence of abnormal LFT.  
Reversibility:  ALT  and  AST  values  spontaneously  returned  to  within  the  normal  range  or  to  below 
baseline values in 19/57, 10/17 and 2/2 in the febuxostat, allopurinol and placebo groups, respectively. 
ALT and AST values spontaneously returned to <1.5 x ULN or to <1.5 x the baseline value in 35/57, 
12/17 and 2/2 in the febuxostat, allopurinol and placebo groups, respectively. 
The Applicant’s original claim that increases in abnormal LFT was in part due to the concomitant use 
of NSAIDs/COX-2 inhibitors or colchicine could not be substantiated. 
LTE  studies:  The  incidences  of  subjects  with  elevated  LFT  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg  and  120  mg 
groups were similar to or slightly higher than in the allopurinol 300/100 mg group, and no statistically 
significant  differences  were  observed.  The  treatment-related  increase  in  ALT,  AST  and  γ-GTP  was 
reported in 0.8%, 0.5% and 0.2% of patients in the 40, 80 and 120 mg febuxostat groups (total 1.5%, 
17/1143 patients) vs. zero % in the allopurinol group; the percentages of treatment related abnormal 
liver  function  tests  was  given  as  0.9%  (11/1143)  in  the  febuxostat  groups  and  0.6%  (1/178)  in  the 
© EMEA 2008 
41/51 
 
 
 
 
allopurinol  group.  Shifts  in  ALT  or  AST  in  the  LTE  occurred  by  about  10-15  %  of  patients  in  the 
febuxostat and allopurinol groups. A drug-induced severe liver injury was not observed in the clinical 
febuxostat studies. 
Overall, changes in liver function tests observed under treatment with febuxostat and allopurinol in the 
pivotal Phase III and LTE studies were similar and greater than with placebo in the Phase III studies. 
Regarding  hepatotoxicity  there  appears  to  be  no  difference  between  febuxostat  and  allopurinol.    On 
grounds of the available data, liver function test should be carried out at the initiation of therapy with 
febuxostat  and  controlled  during  therapy.  An  appropriate  warning  has  been  included  in  the  SPC,  as 
suggested by the CHMP. 
Gastro-intestinal AEs 
Pivotal Phase III studies: The incidence of treatment-related diarrhoea was similar in the febuxostat 80 
mg QD, febuxostat 120 mg QD, allopurinol 300/100 mg QD, and placebo treatment groups (3%, 2%, 
2%, and 4%, respectively) but numerically higher in the febuxostat 240 mg QD treatment group (7%). 
Furthermore,  the  incidence  of  treatment-related  nausea  was  similar  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg  QD, 
febuxostat 120 mg QD, allopurinol 300/100 mg QD, and placebo treatment groups (2%, 1%, <1%, and 
<1%, respectively) but numerically higher in the febuxostat 240 mg QD treatment group (4%). 
LTE  studies:  The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  and  treatment-related  gastrointestinal 
adverse  events  per  100 PY  in  the  LTE studies  was  similar  in  the  febuxostat  and  allopurinol  groups, 
and numerically higher in the febuxostat 240 mg treatment group. The incidence of diarrhoea (per 100 
PY) was increased at febuxostat 120 mg compared with the febuxostat 80 mg and allopurinol groups.  
The  gastro-intestinal  AEs  are  adequately  mentioned  in  the  SPC.  The  Applicant  claimed  that  the 
incidence  of  diarrhoea,  nausea,  and  vomiting  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  was  lower  at  periods 
without  co-medication  of  colchicine  and  that  diarrhoea,  nausea,  and  vomiting  are  partly  due  to  the 
concomitant use of colchicine. The data presented in response to the D120 LoQ support the claim that 
the use colchicine increased gastrointestinal AEs. 
Neurological AEs 
Pivotal Phase III studies: One of serious AE (hemiparesis and EEG abnormal) was considered to be 
treatment  related.  Treatment-emergent  headaches  in  the  febuxostat  groups  were  observed  by  7%  of 
patients  and  treatment-related  headaches  by  2%  of  patients  in  the  febuxostat  group.  Treatment-
emergent  dizziness  in  the  febuxostat  groups  was  observed  by  3%  of  patients  and  treatment-related 
dizziness  by  1%  of  patients  in  the  febuxostat.  The  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  or  treatment 
related somnolence was 1% or <1%, respectively. The incidence of treatment-emergent or treatment 
related paraesthesias or dysaesthesias was less the 1%.  
LTE extension studies: The incidence of treatment-emergent neurological AEs (febuxostat groups vs. 
allopurinol)  were:  Headache  (6.6%  vs.  3.4%),  dizziness  (2.5%  vs.  1.1%),  paraesthesias  (2.4%  vs. 
1.1%), somnolence (0.3% vs. 0%). 
An  appropriate  warning  on  ability  to  drive  and use machines  has  been  included  in  the SPC  (section 
4.7). 
Thyroid AEs 
The  Applicant  concluded  that  there  was  no  clinically  meaningful  differences  in  mean  change  from 
baseline and shift analyses between groups for TSH, total T4, total T3 or FT4 in the pivotal Phase III 
studies and similar results were obtained in the LTE studies. The only significant change in the LTE 
studies was a decrease in free T4 in the febuxostat vs. allopurinol group, which was explained to be 
due to greater number of visits during which laboratory evaluations were performed in the febuxostat 
group  than  in  the  allopurinol  group.  Furthermore,  it  was  stated  that  the  proportions  of  subjects  with 
potentially  concerning  thyroid  laboratory  values  were  low  and  similar  across  the  febuxostat  80-mg 
QD, febuxostat 120-mg QD, and allopurinol 300/100-mg QD treatment groups. 
However, 6% of patients in the febuxostat groups in the LTE studies shifted to higher TSH (vs. 3% 
under  allopurinol),  about  3.3  %  shifted  to  lower  T4  (vs.  4%  with  allopurinol)  or  lower  free  T4  (vs. 
<1% with allopurinol).  
© EMEA 2008 
42/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moreover, 5% of patients in the 80 mg group, 5% of patients in the 120 mg febuxostat group and 5.8% 
of patients in allopurinol group had TSH values of >5.5 µIU/ml indicating subclinical hypothyroidism. 
1.2% and 1.8% of patients had TSH levels >10 µIU/ml, respectively.  
1.7% (15/887) in the 80 mg group and 0.8% (4/503) of patients in the 120 mg febuxostat group had T4 
values of <0.8xLLN. Low free T4 (<0.8xLLN) was observed in 0.67% at 80 mg and 0.19% of patients 
at 120 mg daily. There were apparently only 3 patients with a high TSH concomitantly with a shift to 
low free T4 and 2 patients with a high TSH concomitantly with a shift to low total T4. 
Reversibility: In the subgroup of patients who had a potentially concerning TSH value recorded during 
the  studies,  TSH  was  within  normal  range  at  the  final  visit  for  74%  of  patients  (42/57)  and  56% 
patients  (15/27)  treated  with  febuxostat  80  mg  and  120  mg,  respectively,  and  29%  of  allopurinol-
treated  patients.  In  the  subgroup  of  patients  who  had  a  potentially  concerning  TSH  value  recorded 
during the  studies  and  elevated  TSH  at  baseline,  TSH  was  within  normal  range  at  the  final  visit  for 
64%  of  patients  (9/37)  and  40%  patients  (21/27)  treated  with  febuxostat  80  mg  and  120  mg, 
respectively, and 14% of allopurinol-treated patients. 
Overall,  the  observed  increase  of  blood  TSH  in  a  large  portion  of  febuxostat  treated  patients  in  the 
LTE-studies, indicating sub-clinical hypothyroidism, remains unexplained. A mechanism has not been 
elucidated and should be further investigated. The potential risk of developing a decrease  in thyroid 
function in humans after long-term febuxostat treatment cannot be excluded.  
Thyroid disorder has been added as a potential risk in the current RMP. Thyroid disorders have been 
added to the safety specification. A warning regarding the possible increase in blood TSH during long-
term  treatment  with  febuxostat  has  been  included  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC,  as  suggested  by  the 
CHMP. 
Bleeding AE and effects of anticoagulants 
Pivotal  Phase  III  studies: 25%  of  febuxostat  total  subjects,  21%  of  allopurinol  subjects,  and  30%  of 
placebo  subjects  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  took  one  or  more  antithrombotic  medications. 
Warfarin was used by 7 (5%) subjects in the placebo group, 15 (3%) subjects each in the febuxostat 
80-mg  and  120-mg  QD  groups,  2  (2%)  subjects  in  the  febuxostat  240-mg  QD  group,  and  12  (2%) 
subjects  in  the  allopurinol  300/100-mg  QD  group.  Heparin  was  used  by  6  subjects  each  in  the 
febuxostat 80 mg and 120-mg QD group and by 2 subjects in the allopurinol group. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  who  experienced  bleeding  adverse  events  was  similar  in  the  febuxostat 
groups (4.7% in all febuxostat groups) and allopurinol group (4%), but somewhat lower in the placebo 
group  (3%).  The  proportion  of  subjects  who  experienced  bleeding  adverse  events  while  taking 
anticoagulants or antithrombotic agents was similar between groups (4.0% in all febuxostat groups, 12 
patients; 9.3% in the allopurinol group, 1 patient; 5% in the placebo group, 2 patients). 
The  proportion  of  subjects  who  experienced  bleeding  adverse  events  taking  warfarin  was  6.7%  (1 
patient) in the 80 mg febuxostat group (none at 120 mg or 240 mg febuxostat) vs. 8.3% (1 patient) in 
the allopurinol group and zero in the placebo group. The only serious or severe bleeding adverse event 
while taking an anticoagulant or antithrombotic agent occurred in one subject who was taking warfarin 
(retroperitoneal hemorrhage). 
LTE  studies:  The  incidence  of  bleeding  AEs  was  6%  in  subjects  of  all  febuxostat  groups  (69/1177 
subjects, 3.6 events per 100 PY) and 1.7% the allopurinol group (3/178 subjects, 2.3 events per 100 
PY). Warfarin was used by 27 (3.0%) subjects on febuxostat 80 mg, 19 (3.6%) subjects on febuxostat 
120 mg, and 8 (4.5%) subjects on allopurinol 300/100 mg. Two subjects (4.2 events per 100 PY) in the 
febuxostat  80  mg  group,  1  subject  (3.6 events  per  100  PY)  in  the febuxostat  120  mg  group, and  no 
subjects in the allopurinol 300/100 mg group had at least 1 bleeding adverse event while on warfarin. 
No subject had a serious or severe adverse event that occurred while taking warfarin and febuxostat 
concomitantly. 
Heparin  was  used  by  20  (2%)  subjects  in  the  febuxostat  80  mg  group,  by  11  (2%)  subjects  in  the 
febuxostat 120 mg group and by 3 (2%) subjects in the allopurinol group. One subject (6.8 events per 
100 PY) in the febuxostat 120 mg group had bleeding adverse events while taking heparin. 
A  possible  risk  of  increased  bleeding  in  febuxostat  treated  patients  taking  concomitantly  warfarin 
cannot  be  completely  excluded,  judged  from  the  reported  bleeding  AEs.  The  interaction  study  with 
© EMEA 2008 
43/51 
 
 
 
 
 
warfarin did not show significant interactions between febuxostat and warfarin. Recommendation for 
monitoring  of  anticoagulation  activity  in  patients  taking  warfarin  or  similar  agents  following  the 
initiation  of  febuxostat  therapy,  as  already  suggested  previously  by  the  Applicant,  has  now  been 
included in the SPC. 
Haematological effects 
Pivotal  Phase  III  studies:  The  overall  incidence  of  any  specific  treatment-emergent  haematological 
adverse events similar, 3%, 3%, 2% in the febuxostat 80 mg, 120 mg, and 240 mg groups, but lower in 
the placebo (1%) and allopurinol 300/100 mg group (<1%), however the overall incidences of specific 
treatment-related haematological adverse events were similar across treatment groups (<1%). Most of 
the adverse events were due to abnormal laboratory values. 
LTE studies: There was 1 serious adverse event of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (the patient 
had  received  allopurinol  300  mg  until  Day  71  and  then  switched  to  febuxostat  80  mg;  the  patient’s 
serum in the presence or absence of final concentrations of febuxostat ranging from 0.01 to 10µg/ml 
did not cause significant platelet aggravation). The most common haematologic AE among febuxostat 
subjects was anaemia (anaemia NEC was 1% in the total febuxostat groups vs. 0% in the allopurinol 
group;  Statistical  Tab.  3.9.8.1;  0.6  per  100  PY).  During  the  18  to  <24  month  interval,  statistically 
significant  differences  were  observed  in  shifts  to  high  platelet  count  between  the  febuxostat  80  mg 
(p=0.002) or febuxostat 120 mg (p=0.026) group and the allopurinol 300/100 mg group (<1% versus 
8% for both comparisons).  
A close pharmacovigilance activity on haematological effects is required. 
Rash 
Pivotal  Phase  III  studies:  The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  rash  adverse  events  was 
comparable in the febuxostat 80 mg, 120 mg, allopurinol 300/100 mg, febuxostat 240 mg and placebo 
treatment  groups  (8%,  7%,  8%,  4%  and  5%,  respectively).  Dermatitis  and  eczema,  erythemas, 
papulosquamous  conditions,  urticarias,  and  rashes,  eruptions,  and  exanthems  NEC  were  the  only 
specific MedDRA HLTs reported by ≥1% and by at least 2 subjects in any treatment group. About 2% 
in  the  total  febuxostat  treated  or  allopurinol  treated  patient  were  judged  as  treatment  related.  18 
subjects (1 placebo, 9 febuxostat 80 mg QD, 5 febuxostat 120 mg QD, and 3 allopurinol 300/100 mg 
QD) had rash adverse events requiring oral or intravenous medication for treatment. 14 patients in the 
febuxostat groups, 2 patients in the allopurinol group and 1 patient in the placebo group discontinued 
prematurely because of rash/urticaria AEs. 
LTE extension studies: The overall incidence of treatment-emergent rash adverse events per 100 PY 
was  similar  between  groups  (febuxostat  total  6.1  subjects  vs.  allopurinol  5.3  subjects)  and  the 
treatment-related rash adverse per 100 PY was somewhat higher in the allopurinol group (febuxostat 
total 1.0 subjects vs. allopurinol 2.3 subjects). The most common rash MedDRA preferred terms per 
100 PY were dermatitis contact (1.6 subjects) and rash (1.0 subject) among febuxostat total subjects 
and rash erythematous (1.5 subjects) among allopurinol subjects. 
Stevens-Johnson  syndrome  or  toxic  epidermal  necrolysis  have  not  been  observed  in  the  febuxostat 
clinical  studies.  A  hypersensitivity  syndrome  was  neither  observed  with  allopurinol  nor  with 
febuxostat in these clinical studies. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory  findings  (renal,  xanthine  crystals,  hepatic,  thyroid  and  haematological)  have  been 
described in the section on adverse events 
© EMEA 2008 
44/51 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety in special populations 
A  total  account  for  safety  data  in  special  groups,  given  as  total  number  of  patients  in  the  special 
populations and total time of exposure, in comparison to the general study population was requested  
in the D120 LoQ.  
Renal  impairment:  As  outlined  in  the  response  to  the  D120  LoQ,  safety  evaluation  in  patients  with 
mild  renal  impairment  was  done  in  350  patients  (30%)  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  and  in  326 
patients (29%) in the LTE studies. Safety evaluation in patients with moderate renal impairment done 
in 62 patients (5%) in the pivotal Phase III studies and in 69 patients (6%) in the LTE studies. Safety 
evaluation  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  was  performed  in  only  12  patients  (pivotal  and 
LTE  studies).    69%  in  the  febuxostat  total  group  of  the  renally  impaired  subjects  were  exposed  to 
febuxostat (80-240 mg daily) for at least 6 months, with 25% exposed for at least 12 months. Similar 
proportions  were  recorded  for  subjects  without  renal  impairment  (71%  and  24%  exposed  for  ≥6 
months  and  ≥12  months,  respectively).  288  patients  (72%)  in  the  febuxostat  total  group  of  renally 
impaired subjects reached a cumulative exposure to febuxostat (40-120 mg daily) of at least 18 months  
The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  AEs  was  similar  for  patents  with  and  without  renal 
insufficiency within each of the treatment groups. Statistically significant differences were found for a 
few of the most common treatment-emergent AEs (≥5% in any treatment group overall): joint-related 
signs and symptoms, nausea and vomiting, and headaches NEC. The incidence of joint-related signs 
and symptoms, nausea and vomiting was higher in patients with renal insufficiency treated with 80 mg 
or 120 mg febuxostat compared to patients without renal insufficiency.  
Febuxostat may be used in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment but a close monitoring is 
required. The use of febuxostat in severe renal impairment cannot be recommended as the safety and 
efficacy of febuxostat has not been fully evaluated in these patients.  
Hepatic impairment: 
Febuxostat  cannot  be  recommended  for  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  hepatic  impairment  since 
only  patients  with  normal  liver  function  were  included  in  clinical  studies.  Active  liver  disease  or 
hepatic  dysfunction  (defined  as  ALT  and  AST  >1.5  ×  ULN)  were  excluded  from  pivotal  Phase  III 
studies and LTE studies. 
Gender: 
The  male:female  ratio  in  pivotal  studies  was  17.7:1,  e.g.  far  greater  than  the  sex  ratio  presented  in 
epidemiological studies published in the literature. The overall incidence of adverse events and study 
drug-related adverse events during dosing in the Phase I study was higher in females than males. In the 
Phase III controlled studies, the overall incidences of treatment-emergent adverse events were higher 
for female subjects than for male subjects for each of the treatment groups. However, only about 6.4 % 
female patients were included which makes statistic evaluation uncertain.  
Since  so  few  female  subjects  were  included  in  the  pivotal  studies,  the  Applicant  has  committed  to 
further analyse postmarketing safety data with respect to gender in coming PSURs (see FUMs). 
Age: 
Only  a  small  proportion  of  subjects  enrolled  in  pivotal  Phase  III  trials  and  the  LTE  studies  were 
elderly  (>65  years),  representing  between  8%  and  18%  of  subjects  in  each  of  the  febuxostat  and 
allopurinol  treatment  groups.  Close  monitoring  is  required.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  further 
analyse postmarketing safety data with respect to age in coming PSURs (see FUMs). 
Ethnic differences: 
Ethnic  differences  in  efficacy  of  febuxostat  between  Caucasian  and  non-Caucasian  subjects  were 
reported in the pivotal Phase III studies (combined data). It has to be noted that 78% of patients treated 
with  febuxostat  in  the  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  (APEX,  FACT)  were  Caucasians.  In  the  Black  and 
Hispanic  subgroups,  response  rates  in  the  febuxostat  groups  were  smaller  than  in  the  Caucasian 
subgroup. These differences were statistically significant in the febuxostat 80 mg and 120 mg groups, 
but  not  in  the  240  mg  group.  The  response  rate  in  the  Asian  and  ‘other’  subgroups  was  generally 
similar to that seen in the Caucasian subgroup. However, it is difficult to draw a correct conclusion on 
© EMEA 2008 
45/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
real  differences  regarding  febuxostat  efficacy  in  gout  patients  in  different  ethnic  groups  due  to  the 
small number of patients in the non-Caucasian subgroups.          
Other: 
Patients  with  excessive  uric  acid  metabolism  due  to  malignancies  were  not  studied  and  there  is  a 
possibility  that  febuxostat  may  precipitate  xanthine  after  aggressive  concomitant  treatment  with 
chemotherapy  in  cancer  patients,  as  has  been  the  case  after  intensive  treatment  with  allopurinol  + 
chemotherapy in some cancer patients. Regarding the risk of high blood and urine levels of xanthine, 
with  risk  of  precipitation  of  xanthine,  during  febuxostat  treatment  of  patients  with  malignancies 
causing excessive nucleic acid metabolism a warning has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC.  
Febuxostat  did  not  differ  from  allopurinol  in  terms  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  in  clinical  studies. 
There is very limited data on exposing patients with a history of allopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome 
to febuxostat. 
Overall, a limited number of female patients, elderly patients, patients with hepatic impairment, and 
patients  with  moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment  were  included  in  the  pivotal  studies.  The 
Applicant  has  committed  to  further  closely  monitor  and  analyse  postmarketing  safety  data  in  these 
population groups in coming PSURs. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Warfarin, digoxin, ibuprofen, captopril, bezafibrat, verapamil or nitrendipine did not affect the protein 
binding of febuxostat in human plasma in in vitro studies. Similarly, febuxostat did not significantly 
affect the protein binding of warfarin or ibuprofen in human plasma. The plasma protein binding of 
verapamil and nitrendipine appeared to decrease with the addition of 10 µg/ml febuxostat in vitro, but 
is not expected to lead to a clinically relevant interaction in vivo, as an increase in free fraction will 
also lead to increased clearance.  
Febuxostat does not significantly inhibit the CYP isoforms typically involved in drug metabolism but 
was  shown  to  be  a  weak  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6.  A  clinical  drug-drug  interaction  study  with 
desipramine,  a  CYP2D6  substrate,  showed  that  the  inhibitory  effect  of  febuxostat  was  very  weak. 
Additional  studies  indicated  that  colchicine,  indomethacin,  naproxen  and  hydrochlortiazide  do  not 
have clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of febuxostat. Multiple doses of febuxostat 
120  mg  co-administered  with  stable  doses  of  warfarin  for  up  to  14  days  did  not  affect  the 
pharmacokinetis or pharmacodynamics of warfarin. 
Theoretically, theofyllin, mercaptopurine and azathioprine could be impacted by inhibition of XO. No 
interaction studies have been performed with any of these drugs and febuxostat. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Most  adverse  events  leading  to  premature  discontinuation  of  study  drug  were  considered  treatment-
related and had similar incidence across treatment groups. The only treatment-related MedDRA HLTs 
reported by >or= 1% and by at least 2 subjects in any treatment group were adverse events classified 
under liver function analyses in the febuxostat  120 mg group (2%) as well as diarrhoea, and nausea 
and vomiting symptoms in the febuxostat 240 mg group (2% each).  
•  Post marketing experience 
No post marketing data are available, since febuxostat has not been licensed in other regions. 
© EMEA 2008 
46/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. An updated RMP was submitted in the response to the 
D180 LoOI, which complies with Guidelines on risk management systems for medicinal products for 
human use (EMEA/CHMP/96268/2005). Epidemiological data from USA and Europe were included, 
as requested.  
Risks: According to the Applicant’s view no risk has been identified regarding cardiac, renal, CNS or 
haematological AEs.  
Potential risks: Cardiovascular effects, hepatic effects, neurological effects, haematological effects, 
rash/hypersensitivity were considered as potential risk. Renal effects and thyroid effects are included 
in the updated RMP, as requested. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance was suggested for these areas; an additional post-marketing safety study 
regarding cardiovascular AEs was suggested.  
Missing information:  
No experience in: Children and adolescents, Subjects in whom the rate of serum urate formation is 
greatly increased (e.g. malignant disease and its treatment, Lesch-Nyhan syndrome). Organ 
transplantation, severe hepatic impairment, pregnancy and lactation are included in the updated RMP, 
as requested. 
Limited experience in: Female patients, Elderly patients, severe renal impairment, moderate hepatic 
impairment are included in the updated RMP, as requested. 
Regarding risk management minimization activities the Applicant stated that planned risk 
minimisation activities include clear and comprehensive instruction to the physician, patient, and 
caregiver in the SmPC and package leaflet. Routine risk minimisation measures are adequate at the 
moment.  
The additional pharmacovigilance activity to investigate cardiovascular disorders has been included in 
the RMP.   
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Potential risks 
Cardiovascular effects 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Postmarketing study 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine risk minimization (SPC, Patient 
Information Leaflet)  
Section 4.4 of SPC:  
“Cardio-vascular disorders 
Treatment with febuxostat in patients with 
ischaemic heart disease or congestive heart 
failure is not recommended (see section 4.8).” 
Section 4.8 of SPC: 
“A numerically greater incidence of 
investigator-reported cardiovascular events 
was observed in the febuxostat total group 
compared to the allopurinol group in the 
© EMEA 2008 
47/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
pivotal Phase III (1.3 vs 0.3 events per 100 
PYs) and long-term extension studies (1.4 vs 
0.7 events per 100 PYs), although no 
statistically significant differences were found 
and no causal relationship with febuxostat was 
established. Identified risk factors among 
these patients were a medical history of 
atherosclerotic disease and/or myocardial 
infarction, or of congestive heart failure.” 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization (SPC, Patient 
Information Leaflet).  
Section 4.4 of SPC : 
“Liver disorders 
During the phase 3 clinical studies, mild liver 
function test abnormalities were observed in 
patients treated with febuxostat (3.5%). Liver 
function test is recommended prior to the 
initiation of therapy with febuxostat and 
periodically thereafter based on clinical 
judgement (see section 5.1).  
Thyroid disorders  
Increased TSH values (>5.5 µIU/ml) were 
observed in patients on long-term treatment 
with febuxostat (5.0%) in the long term open 
label extension studies. Caution is required 
when febuxostat is used in patients with 
alteration of thyroid function (see section 
5.1).” 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization (SPC, Patient 
Information Leaflet).  
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization (SPC, Patient 
Information Leaflet). 
© EMEA 2008 
48/51 
•  Hepatic effects 
•  Thyroid effects 
•  Renal effects 
•  Neurological effects 
•  Haematological effects 
•  Severe rash/ 
hypersensitivity 
Missing information 
No experience in : 
•  Children and 
adolescents 
•  Subjects in whom the 
rate of serum urate 
formation is greatly 
increased 
(e.g.malignant disease 
and its treatment, 
Lesch-Nyhan 
syndrome) 
•  Organ transplantation 
•  Severe hepatic 
impairment 
•  Pregnancy and 
lactation 
•  Limited experience in : 
•  Female patients 
•  Elderly patients 
•  Severe renal 
 
 
 
 
  
impairment 
•  Moderate hepatic 
impairment. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substances and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Non-clinical issues (pharmacokinetics) are resolved with the commitment to investigate the in vitro 
inhibitory potential of febuxostat for CYP2C8 and CYP2B6, and to perform a study on aerobic 
transformation in aquatic sediment systems (OECD 308) for febuxostat to complete the Phase II 
environmental fate and effect analysis.   
Efficacy 
The clinical efficacy of febuxostat in the pivotal Phase III studies APEX (40, 80, 120 or 240 mg once 
daily over 28 week) and FACT (80 and 120 mg once daily over 52 week) in gout patients was 
assessed from the decrease and maintenance of sUA below 6 mg/dl (surrogate endpoint), but a clinical 
endpoint has not been defined. Febuxostat efficacy in the open-label LTE studies (TMX-01-005,Cxx-
021) was only shown in interim analyses.  
Patients did not receive any diet counselling per protocol, and no specific programme aiming at 
controlling weight was recommended. 
Febuxostat is more potent then the active comparator allopurinol. The main reason for the lower 
efficacy of allopurinol is most probably the fact that allopurinol was only applied at the conventionally 
used dose of 300 mg once daily. Febuxostat is about 5.6 times more potent in lowering sUA 
(estimated in healthy volunteers).  
Febuxostat in the proposed doses provides more rapid and more pronounced mean reductions of serum 
urate than allopurinol 300 mg. An increased incidence of gout flares was observed after initiation of 
febuxostat therapy (greater for febuxostat 120 mg than for febuxostat 80 mg and allopurinol and there 
was  a  higher  drop-out  rate  due  to  adverse  events  among  the  febuxostat-treated  patients.  which  is  a 
concern.  A  clarification  whether  the  prophylaxis  (or  duration  of  prophylaxis)  for  gout  flares  was 
adequate and/or the febuxostat doses were too high was requested. The Applicant considered that the 
prophylaxis  of  8  weeks  may  be  too  short  and  agrees  with  the  CHMP  suggestion  to  recommend 
duration of prophylaxis for 6 months and to initiate treatment with febuxostat 80 mg in every patients. 
It  is  expected  that  the  longer  prophylaxis  will  reduce  the  frequency  of  gout  flares,  but  AEs  by  the 
concomitant medication might increase.   
However,  the  question  whether  the  frequency  of  gout  flares  could  be  reduced  by  starting  treatment 
with a lower febuxostat dose (e.g. 40 mg/d) than used in the pivotal Phase III studies and the use of a 
slow up-titration has not been properly addressed. This question can probably only be answered if an 
appropriate  dose-titration  study  is  performed.  As  requested  by  CHMP  the  Applicant  commits  to 
perform a post-marketing dose-titration study to clarify whether patients would benefit from a dose-
titration (starting with 40 mg febuxostat/d) and/or a slow up-titration.  
© EMEA 2008 
49/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the LTE studies efficacy has been shown up to about 20 month, judged from the reduction in sUA 
below 6 mg/dl (surrogate endpoint). Percent reduction of sUA in patients remaining at the original 
treatment assignment was similar in the LTE-study Cxx-021and the pivotal Phase III studies (Last 
Visit values). The Applicant commits to submit the finalized study reports of the two ongoing LTE 
studies (TMX-xx-005,Cxx-021) to the CHMP. 
From a clinical perspective it is recognised that few effective pharmacological alternatives to 
allopurinol treatment exist. Allopurinol treatment can be difficult to handle and sometimes cannot be 
used, such as in renally impaired patients or in patients experiencing rash or true hypersensivity 
reactions. The experience from treatment with febuxostat is very limited in these subgroups as well as 
in patients with raised urate levels secondary to malignancy.   
Overall, the efficacy of febuxostat judged from the reduction and maintenance of sUA has been 
shown. Efficacy issues raised in the D180 LoOI are solved.   
Safety 
A major safety objection was raised in the primary assessment concerning the possible increased risk 
of cardiovascular AEs. In the pivotal Phase III studies the incidence of primary APTC events 
(combined incidence of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, non-
fatal cardiac arrest) in the febuxostat treatment groups was about 4 to 5-times higher than in the 
allopurinol group either calculated as percent incidence (0.8% vs. 0.2%; 1.3 vs. 0.3 events per 100 
PY). Similarly, in the LTE studies the incidence of primary APTC events was 3-4 times higher in the 
80/120 mg febuxostat groups than in the allopurinol group (2.62% vs. 0.56%) and about 2-times 
higher per 100 PY (1.4 vs. 0.7 events). In the new updated analysis of the LTE studies (up to 02.2007) 
submitted in the response to LoQ, 2 additional events (1 myocardial infarction in the febuxostat group 
and 1 in the allopurinol group) were included in the analysis (primary APTC events were 2.71% vs. 
1.12%; 1.20 vs. 1.19 events per 100 PYs), thus the incidence of primary APTC events was about the 
same expressed in events per 100 PYs. In a meta-regression analysis of literature data, submitted in the 
response to the LoQ, it was reported that incidence of APTC events was similar to major 
cardiovascular events or to the adjusted total mortality rate in a similar population group.  
Although no statistically significant difference in APTC events in the primary assessment between 
febuxostat and the allopurinol treated patients was observed the overall incidence of these serious AEs 
in the combined febuxostat groups was 0.85% (n=10) in the pivotal Phase III studies and 2.7% (n=31) 
in the LTE studies. The increased incidence of serious cardiovascular adverse events with febuxostat 
compared to allopurinol remains a concern, and CHMP are not entirely convinced that the observed 
incidence of primary APTC events in the pivotal Phase III studies is due to chance. Cardiovascular 
AEs are included in the risk management plan as potential risk. 
In addition, risk factors with a significant association with APTC events in febuxostat treated patients 
have been identified in subgroups of patients. Risk factors with a significant association with APTC 
events were: medical history of atherosclerotic disease, medical history of myocardial infarction, 
congestive heart failure.  
As part of the risk minimisation of cardiovascular AEs the Applicant has accepted the following 
addition of statements  in the SPC (section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use and section 
4.8 Undesirable effects) and committed to perform a post marketing comparative cardiovascular safety 
study with allopurinol as comparator to clarify the cardiovascular risk profile of febuxostat vs. 
allopurinol. The preliminary study synopsis has been submitted.   
The following wording has been agreed: 
SPC 4.4: 
“Treatment with febuxostat in patients with ischaemic heart disease or congestive heart failure is not 
recommended (see section 4.8).”  
SPC 4.8 
© EMEA 2008 
50/51 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“A numerically greater incidence of investigator-reported cardiovascular events was observed in the 
febuxostat total group compared to the allopurinol group in the pivotal Phase III (1.3 vs 0.3 events per 
100  PYs)  and  long-term  extension  studies  (1.4  vs  0.7  events  per  100  PYs),  although  no  statistically 
significant  differences  were  found  and  no  causal  relationship  with  febuxostat  was  established. 
Identified risk factors among these patients were a medical history of atherosclerotic disease and/or 
myocardial infarction, or of congestive heart failure.” 
The high percentage of abnormal LFT/liver enzymes and the high percentage of TSH increase is a 
concern. Mechanisms have not been identified. Liver function testing should be carried out at the 
initiation of therapy with febuxostat and controlled during therapy. An appropriate warning has been 
included in the SPC. Furthermore, a warning regarding TSH increase has been included in the SPC.   
Stratification of QT intervals of the APEX sub-study according to heart rate showed that febuxostat as 
a hERG channel agonist does not significantly reduce the QT interval at the recommended doses of 80 
and 120 mg/d. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The Applicant performed a user consultation testing on the package leaflet for Adenuric 80 mg and 
120 mg film-coated tablets. The results showed that for each question more than 90% of subjects were 
able to find the information and 80% or more were able to understand it. 12 of the 16 questions 
achieved a 100% result for both finding and understanding thus exceeding the success criteria. In 
conclusion, the package leaflet appears to meet the requirements set for user testing. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The benefit risk ratio could be considered as positive with the accepted warnings in the SPC (Section 
VI) and provided that the Applicant commits to perform the post-authorisation follow-up measures to 
be reported back to the CHMP within a specified time frame.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Adenuric in the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in 
conditions where urate deposition has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus 
and/or gouty arthritis) was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
© EMEA 2008 
51/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
