EMA/194587/2011 
EMEA/H/C/000759 
EPAR summary for the public 
Adrovance 
alendronic acid / colecalciferol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Adrovance. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Adrovance. 
What is Adrovance? 
Adrovance is a medicine that contains two active substances: alendronic acid and colecalciferol 
(vitamin D3). It is available as white tablets (capsule-shaped: 70 mg alendronic acid and 2,800 
international units [IU] colecalciferol; rectangular: 70 mg alendronic acid and 5,600 IU colecalciferol). 
What is Adrovance used for? 
Adrovance (containing either 2,800 or 5,600 IU colecalciferol) is used to treat osteoporosis (a disease 
that makes bones fragile) in women who have been through the menopause and are at risk of low 
vitamin D levels. Adrovance 70 mg/5,600 IU is for use in patients who are not taking vitamin D 
supplements. Adrovance reduces the risk of broken bones in the spine and the hip. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Adrovance used? 
The recommended dose of Adrovance is one tablet once a week. It is intended for long-term use. 
The patient must take the tablet with a full glass of water (but not mineral water), at least 30 minutes 
before any food, drink or other medicines (including antacids, calcium supplements and vitamins). To 
avoid irritation of the oesophagus (gullet), the patient should not lie down until after their first food of 
the day, which should be at least 30 minutes after taking the tablet. The tablet should be swallowed 
whole and not crushed, chewed or allowed to dissolve in the mouth. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Patients should also take calcium supplements if they are not getting enough calcium from their diet. 
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Adrovance work? 
Osteoporosis happens when not enough new bone grows to replace the bone that is naturally broken 
down. Gradually, the bones become thin and fragile, and more likely to break. Osteoporosis is more 
common in women after the menopause, when the levels of the female hormone oestrogen fall, since 
oestrogen helps to keep bones healthy. 
Adrovance contains two active substances: alendronic acid and colecalciferol (vitamin D3). 
Alendronic acid is a bisphosphonate that has been used in osteoporosis since the mid-1990s. It slows 
the action of the osteoclasts, the cells that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. Blocking the 
action of these cells leads to less bone loss. Vitamin D3 is a nutrient that is found in some foods, but 
also made in the skin through exposure to natural sunlight. Vitamin D3, along with other forms of 
vitamin D, is required for calcium absorption and normal bone formation. Since patients with 
osteoporosis may not get enough vitamin D3 through exposure to sunlight, it is included in Adrovance. 
How has Adrovance been studied? 
Because alendronic acid and vitamin D3 are already used separately in authorised medicines in the 
European Union (EU), the company presented data obtained in earlier studies and from the published 
literature from women who had been through the menopause and who were taking alendronic acid and 
vitamin D as separate tablets. 
To support the combination of alendronic acid and vitamin D3 in the same tablet, the company also 
carried out a study in 717 patients with osteoporosis, including 682 women who had been through the 
menopause, to show Adrovance’s ability to increase vitamin D levels. Patients received either 
Adrovance 70 mg/2,800 IU or alendronic acid only once a week. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the reduction in the number of patients with low vitamin D levels after 15 weeks. This study was 
extended in 652 patients for a further 24 weeks to compare the effects on continuing with Adrovance 
70 mg/2,800 IU on its own or adding another 2,800 IU vitamin D3 (equivalent to using Adrovance 
70 mg/5,600 IU). 
What benefit has Adrovance shown during the studies? 
The information presented by the company from earlier studies and the published literature showed 
that the dose of alendronic acid included in Adrovance was the same as the dose needed to prevent 
bone loss. 
The additional studies showed that including vitamin D3 in the same tablet with alendronic acid could 
increase vitamin D levels. After 15 weeks, fewer patients had low vitamin D levels when they took 
Adrovance 70 mg/2,800 IU (11%) than when they took alendronic acid only (32%). In the extension 
study, similar numbers of patients taking Adrovance 70 mg/2,800 IU and Adrovance 70 mg/5,600 IU 
had low vitamin D levels (below 6%), but the patients taking Adrovance 70 mg/5,600 IU had greater 
increases in vitamin D levels over the 24 weeks of the study. 
What is the risk associated with Adrovance? 
The most common side effects with Adrovance are headache, abdominal pain (stomach ache), 
dyspepsia (heartburn), constipation, diarrhoea, flatulence (gas), oesophageal (gullet) ulcers, dysphagia 
(difficulty swallowing), abdominal distension (swollen tummy), acid regurgitation and musculoskeletal 
Adrovance  
EMA/859207/2011  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
pain (pain in the muscles, bones and joints). For the full list of all side effects reported with Adrovance, 
see the package leaflet. 
Adrovance should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to alendronic acid, 
vitamin D3 or any of the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have abnormalities of 
the oesophagus, who have hypocalcaemia (low calcium levels), or who cannot stand or sit upright for 
at least 30 minutes. 
Why has Adrovance been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Adrovance’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Adrovance 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Adrovance to Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd. on 4 January 2007. This authorisation was based on the 
authorisation granted to Fosavance in 2005 (‘informed consent’). The marketing authorisation is valid 
for five years, after which it can be renewed. 
The full EPAR for Adrovance can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Adrovance, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2011. 
Adrovance  
EMA/859207/2011  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
