European Medicines Agency 
London, 19 February 2009 
EMEA/CHMP/188937/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Adrovance 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
alendronate sodium / colecalciferol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000759/II/0008 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Adrovance is a combination of alendronate and colecalciferol (vitamin D3) developed for treatment of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients at risk of vitamin D insufficiency. It is presented as a fixed 
combination tablet containing 70 mg alendronic acid (as alendronate sodium trihydrate) and 70 or 140 
micrograms (2800 IU or 5600 IU) colecalciferol, which is intended as a once weekly treatment. 
Alendronate sodium is a bisphosphonate that inhibits osteoclastic bone resorption. Preclinical studies 
have shown preferential localisation of alendronate to sites of active resorption. Activity of osteoclasts 
is inhibited, but recruitment or attachment of osteoclasts is not affected. 
The  combination  of  alendronate/colecalciferol  ensures  in  a  one  tablet  a  week  regimen  a  level  of 
vitamin D supplementation, which would help to provide a background of adequate vitamin D status 
upon which alendronate can act. 
The  Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  (PhVWP)  of  the  CHMP  initiated  a  class  review  on 
bisphosphonates  and  atypical  stress  fractures  in  July  2008  following  literature  reports  of  stress 
fractures and a label change requested by the Australian authorities. A List of Questions was issued to 
MAHs  requesting  further  information  about  published  literature,  pre-clinical  studies,  clinical  trials, 
post-marketing  reports,  planned  studies,  possible  mechanisms  and  proposed  risk  minimisation 
activities. The MAHs’ responses were reviewed at the December 2008 meeting of the PhVWP. The 
CHMP  recommended  after  having  revieved  the  available  data  that  information  about  atypical  stress 
fractures should be added to the product information for medicinal products containing alendronic acid 
and  proposed  a  wording.  The  CHMP  agreed  with  the  MAH  of  Adrovance  to  update  the  Product 
Information to include information on atypical stress fractures. 
Clinical aspects 
Background  
The Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) had conducted a mandatory label change for 
alendronic  acid/  alendronic  acid  colecalciferol  to  include  a  warning  about  the  possible  risk  of  stress 
fractures in association with alendronic acid. Recent literature reports also discussed stress fractures in 
association with alendronic acid by Neviaser et al 2008 and Kwek et al. 2008. 
The PhVWP initiated a class review of bisphosphonates and atypical stress fractures in July 2008. A 
List of Questions was issued to MAHs of bisphosphonates containing medicinal products requesting 
further  information  about  published  literature,  pre-clinical  studies,  clinical  trials,  post-marketing 
reports, planned studies, possible mechanisms and proposed risk minimisation activities. 
Analysis of data submitted 
The  majority  of  literature  reports  of  stress  fractures  after  the  use  of  bisphosphonates  were  in 
association with alendronic acid (5 case series and 6 individual case reports). The most common site 
of  stress  fracture  reported  was  the  femur  (‘femoral  shaft’,  ‘subtrochanteric  femur’  and  ‘proximal 
femoral  diaphysis)  often  occurring  after  minimal  or  no  trauma.  The  duration  of  alendronic  acid 
therapy in the majority of these reports ranged from 18 months to 10 years. Common characteristics 
were the presence of prodromal pain in the affected limb in the weeks or months prior to sustaining a 
complete  fracture.  A  bilateral  tendency  of  stress  fractures  was  also  observed.  Some  of  the  literature 
reports  suggested  that  continuing  alendronic  acid  treatment  may  delay  or  prevent  healing  of  this 
fracture. 
Published  animal  studies  have  demonstrated  that  alendronic  acid  may  be  associated  with 
microdamage, decreased repair and impaired healing in bone.  
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall  the  number  of  reports  of  stress  fracture  was  low  in  clinical  trials  with  bisphosphonates  and 
some cases were confounded by underlying disease or concomitant treatment. The MAH stated in the 
responses  received  during  the  class-review  that  the  number  of  post-marketing  reports  of  stress 
fractures in association with alendronic acid was 115 (84 of which involving the femur) and included a 
large number of the literature cases.  
In addition there is clinical evidence that alendronic acid may increase microdamage accumulation in 
low  bone  mineral  density  patients  following  long-term  treatment  (Stephan  et  al  2007).  Odvina  et  al 
2005  proposed  that  increased  bone  microdamage  accumulation  and  the  subsequent  increased  risk  of 
non-spinal fractures with prolonged alendronic acid use may be related to severe suppression of bone 
turnover. These authors also suggest that severe suppression of bone turnover by alendronic acid may 
result  in  increased  bone  mineralization  causing  the  bone  to  become  more  brittle.  Other  possible 
mechanisms  for  stress  fractures  in  association  with  prolonged  bisphosphonate  use  include 
microfractures, outdated collagen and inadequate mineralisation (Lenart et al 2008). 
Discussion and conclusion 
Osteoporosis is considered to be the main risk factor for stress fractures in the older population. Other 
risk  factors  listed  in  the  literature  include  fluoride  treatment,  osteopenia,  rheumatoid  arthritis, 
corticosteroid  and  oestrogen  use,  radiation  therapy,  renal  osteodystrophy,  osteomalacia,  Paget’s 
disease,  hyperparathyroidism,  hyperthyroidism,  joint  arthroplasty,  lumbosacral  fusion,  diabetes 
mellitus  and  fibrous  dysplasia.  Additional  risk  factors  may  include  low  bone  mass,  vitamin  D 
deficiency,  single  unusually  large  loading  events,  exercise  and  malabsorption.  Stress  fractures  in 
patients  receiving  bisphosphonates  for  malignancy  may  be  confounded  by  underlying  disease  and 
concomitant treatment. 
Overall, the data for alendronic acid however support an association between atypical stress fractures 
and long-term use of alendronic acid due to the specific and distinct fracture pattern with unicortical 
beak,  bilaterality,  prodromal  pain  and  poor  healing  of  fracture.  A  biologically  plausible  mechanism 
has also been suggested, with suppression of bone turnover leading to increased mineralisation causing 
bone to become more brittle.  
The  CHMP  further  highlighted  the  uncertainty  of  a  class  effect  for  the  other  bisphosphonates. 
Therefore, unnecessary and inappropriate switching of bisphosphonates should be avoided at this point 
in time. 
Conclusions and Benefit / Risk Assessment 
Overall, the inclusion of the warning on atypical stress fractures reflects the current state of knowledge 
of this adverse event after long-term use of alendronate and gives guidance to physician and patients to 
detect early signs of the condition. The benefit/risk balance of alendronate continues to be favourable. 
Changes to the Product Information 
The detailed changes can be found in the final approved highlighted SPC/ PL attached to this report. 
Further to the assessment and the scientific discussions held at the CHMP, the following changes to 
the Product Information were agreed and subsequently implemented by the MAH. 
The MAH requested a number of changes to the wording initially requested by the CHMP. However, 
the final wording was in line with the initially requested wording, with the exception that the CHMP 
agreed to add that the time to onset ranged from 18 months to 10 years in the majority of cases and to 
include information on imaging features of stress fractures weeks to months before a femoral fracture. 
In  addition,  the  MAH  took  this  opportunity  to  correct  the  German  annexes  by  updating  the  outer 
Labelling  section  particulars  to  appear  on  the  immediate  packaging,  method  and  route(s)  of 
administration, and section 5 of the Package Leaflet. 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
On 19 February 2009 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.  
Page 4 of 4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
