SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
This application has been submitted as an informed consent application in accordance with Article 10c 
of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
Therefore, consent from the MAH of the FOSAVANCE application, which had been submitted as a 
full application under Art 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, has been given allowing access to 
Module  2  to  Module  5  of  the  initial  dossier  of  this  authorised  product  and  any  subsequent  post-
marketing procedures submitted, assessed and approved. 
As a consequence, quality, safety and efficacy of the ADROVANCE medicinal product is identical to 
the  up-to-date  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  profile  of  FOSAVANCE.  Information  on  the  scientific 
discussions can be found in the FOSAVANCE CHMP assessment report and in the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients at risk of vitamin 
D insufficiency. ADROVANCE reduces the risk of vertebral and hip fractures”. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Since  this  application  is  an  informed  consent  of  the  FOSAVANCE  application,  the  quality  data  in 
support  of  the  ADROVANCE  application  are  identical  to  the  up-to-date  quality  data  of  the 
FOSAVANCE  dossier  which  have  been  assessed  and  approved  (including  all  post-marketing 
procedures). 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the FOSAVANCE application, the non-clinical data in 
support  of  the  ADROVANCE  application  are  identical  to  the  up-to-date  non-clinical  data  of  the 
FOSAVANCE  dossier,  which  have  been  assessed  and  approved  (including  all  post-marketing 
procedures). 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Since  this  application  is  an  informed  consent  of  the  FOSAVANCE  application,  the  clinical  data  in 
support  of  the  ADROVANCE  application  are  identical  to  the  up-to-date  clinical  data  of  the 
FOSAVANCE  dossier,  which  have  been  assessed  and  approved  (including  all  post-marketing 
procedures). 
•  User consultation 
Since this application is an informed consent of the FOSAVANCE application, the user consultation 
submitted for the ADROVANCE application is identical to the one submitted for the FOSAVANCE 
dossier, which was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
As  requested  by  the  MAH  and  agreed  by  the  CHMP,  the  PSUR  cycle  of  ADROVANCE  will 
correspond  to  the  one  attributed  to  the  cross-referred  product,  FOSAVANCE,  until  otherwise 
specified. 
(cid:1)EMEA 2007 
1/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The  applicant  submitted  a  risk  management  plan.  The  CHMP  considered 
pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
However, the applicant is asked to provide an updated Risk Management Plan taken into account the 
comments raised during the assessment, at the time of the first PSUR. 
that  routine 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Since this application is an informed consent of the FOSAVANCE application, the CHMP considered 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  ADROVANCE  (70  mg  alendronic  acid  as  alendronate  sodium 
trihydrate and   /70 micrograms colecalciferol) tablet  given once weekly was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation for the following indication: 
“Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients at risk of vitamin D insufficiency. ADROVANCE 
reduces the risk of vertebral and hip fractures.” 
(cid:1)EMEA 2007 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
