EMA/779068/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005255 
Adtralza (tralokinumab) 
An overview of Adtralza and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Adtralza and what is it used for? 
Adtralza is a medicine for treating adults and children above 12 years of age with moderate to severe 
atopic dermatitis (also known as eczema, when the skin is itchy, red and dry). It is used in patients for 
whom treatment applied directly to the skin cannot be used or is not sufficient.  
Adtralza contains the active substance tralokinumab. 
How is Adtralza used? 
Adtralza is available as a solution for injection under the skin. The first dose is four injections of 150 
mg, each into a different location. This is followed by two injections of 150 mg every two weeks. The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
For more information about using Adtralza, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Adtralza work? 
Patients with atopic dermatitis produce high levels of a protein called interleukin 13 (IL-13), which can 
cause inflammation of the skin leading to the symptoms of this disease such as redness, swelling and 
itching. The active substance in Adtralza, tralokinumab, is a type of protein (monoclonal antibody) 
designed to neutralise IL-13. By neutralising IL-13, tralokinumab prevents it from working and thereby 
reduces the inflammation and patient’s symptoms. 
What benefits of Adtralza have been shown in studies? 
Adtralza was more effective than a placebo (dummy treatment) at reducing the extent and severity of 
atopic dermatitis after 16 weeks of treatment in three main studies in adult patients with moderate to 
severe disease that had not responded well enough to treatment applied to the skin. The main 
measures of effectiveness were having clear or almost clear skin, and a reduction in symptom score of 
at least 75%. 
In the first study, which involved 802 patients, around 16% of patients who received Adtralza had 
clear skin or almost clear skin compared with 7% of those who received placebo. Symptoms were 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
satisfactorily reduced in 25% of patients who received Adtralza, compared with about 13% of those 
who received placebo. 
In the second study, involving 794 patients, treatment with Adtralza led to clear or almost clear skin in 
about 22% of patients, compared with around 11% of patients who used a placebo. Symptoms were 
satisfactorily reduced in 33% of patients receiving Adtralza versus about 11% of those receiving 
placebo. 
In the third study, 380 patients were given Adtralza or placebo, both in combination with a topical 
corticosteroid (a medicine for inflammation applied to the skin). Adtralza treatment led to clear or 
almost clear skin in around 39% of patients versus 26% of those receiving placebo. Symptoms were 
satisfactorily reduced in 56% of the patients who received Adtralza, compared with about 36% of 
patients on placebo.  
In an additional study involving 301 children aged between 12 and 17 years with atopic dermatitis, 
treatment with Adtralza 300 mg every two weeks for 16 weeks led to clear or almost clear skin in 
around 18% of patients, while treatment with 150 mg every other week for 16 weeks led to clear or 
almost clear skin in around 21% of patients. This compared with around 4% of patients who used a 
placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Adtralza? 
The most common side effects with Adtralza in adults are upper respiratory tract infections (colds and 
other infections of the nose and throat) which may affect more than 1 in 10 people. Other common 
side effects include reactions at the injection site and redness and discomfort in the eye (which may 
affect up to 1 in 10 people). In children, studies showed that the safety profile is similar to that in 
adults. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Adtralza, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Adtralza authorised in the EU? 
Four main studies have shown that Adtralza is effective at clearing the skin and reducing symptoms of 
atopic dermatitis. The side effects are considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency 
decided that Adtralza’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Adtralza? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Adtralza have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Adtralza are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Adtralza are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Adtralza 
Adtralza received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 June 2021 
Further information on Adtralza can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/adtralza 
This overview was last updated in 09-2022. 
Adtralza (tralokinumab)  
EMA/779068/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
