SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Advate. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
ADVATE is containing recombinant human antihaemophilic factor VIII (rFVIII; INN: octocog alfa), 
which  is  synthesised  by  a  genetically  engineered  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO)  cell  line.  The 
approved  therapeutic  indication  is:  “Treatment  and  prophylaxis  of  bleeding  in  patients  with 
haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency)”. ADVATE does not contain von Willebrand factor 
in pharmacological doses and is therefore not indicated in von Willebrand’s disease. 
Antihaemophilic Factor VIII (FVIII) is the blood clotting factor deficient or absent in individuals with 
classic haemophilia A, an X-chromosome-linked bleeding disorder. The frequency of clinically severe 
bleeding  correlates  with  the  degree  of  FVIII  deficiency.  Replacement  therapies  for  FVIII  deficiency 
consist  of  either  plasma-derived  or  recombinant  FVIII  concentrates.  So  far,  the  main  advantage  of 
recombinant  products  is  the  higher  viral  safety.  The  major  complication  in  the  treatment  of 
haemophilia A is the occurrence of inhibitors against FVIII (neutralising antibodies) in about 30% of 
patients, usually within the first 100 exposure days. Patients with severe haemophilia A (FVIII levels 
< 1-2% of normal activity) are at a far higher risk to develop an inhibitor. 
ADVATE  is  a  modification  of  Recombinate,  which  was  granted  a  positive  opinion  by  the  CPMP 
through the former Concertation procedure on 12 May 1993 and is now regulated through the mutual 
recognition  procedure  (NL/H/43/01-03).  The  drug  substances  for  ADVATE  and  Recombinate  are 
produced by the same genetically engineered Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line. This cell line has 
been  designed  to  co-express  rFVIII  and  human  von  Willebrand  factor  (vWF).  The  latter  is  the 
transport  protein  of  FVIII  in  plasma  and  stabilises  rFVIII  during  cell  culture,  which  results  in  an 
increase  in  the  production  yield  of  rFVIII.  Recombinant  vWF  is  separated  from  the  drug  substance 
during the purification processes of Recombinate and ADVATE.  
For  the  manufacture  of  Recombinate,  master  cell  bank  (MCB),  working  cell  banks  (WCB)  and  the 
fermentation process were run under cell culture conditions adapted to the presence of animal-derived 
(bovine) proteins. The drug product of Recombinate is stabilised by human albumin.  
In an attempt to increase product safety, ADVATE was developed by introduction of modifications to 
the  fermentation,  the  purification  process  and  the  drug  product  formulation,  which  eliminated  the 
requirements  for  human  and  animal-derived  raw  materials  and  excipients  at  all  stages  of  the 
production process. In addition, the purification scheme was modified to introduce a solvent/detergent 
viral  inactivation  step.  The  product  is  formulated  with  a  buffer  of  neutral  pH  consisting  of  salts 
(sodium chloride, calcium chloride), a disaccharide stabilizer (trehalose), a bulking agent (mannitol), 
buffer  agents  (Tris,  histidine),  vegetable-derived  polysorbate  80  (surfactant)  and  a  reducing  agent 
(glutathione).  
All  initial  physicochemical  characterisation  studies,  as  well  as  the  non-clinical  and  early  clinical 
development were performed with ADVATE lots produced at pilot scale at the production facilities in 
Vienna,  Austria.  In  December  2000 production of ADVATE commercial scale lots  commenced  at a 
dedicated  manufacturing  facility  in  Neuchatel,  Switzerland.  According  to  the  applicant,  the 
manufacturing  processes  for  the  pilot-  and  commercial-scale  drug  substances  are  virtually  identical, 
except that commercial-scale material is produced at a two-fold increase in cell culture volume and a 
four-fold increase in the downstream purification scale. 
       1/44                                                                       EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
ADVATE  is  a  sterile,  white  to  off-white,  lyophilised  powder  for  injection  presented  in  four  dosage 
forms  (250  IU,  500  IU,  1000  IU,  1500  IU).  The  composition  and  concentration  of  excipients  is  the 
same for all strengths. Each dosage form is reconstituted with 5 ml water for injection. The powder for 
injection  and  solvent  vials  are  supplied  in  the  final  package  in  combination  with  an  application  kit 
consisting of a needleless transfer device, a butterfly infusion set, 10 ml sterile syringe, alcohol swabs, 
bandages, one full prescription insert and patient leaflet. 
The composition of the final drug product is as follows: 
Drug substance: 
Octocog alfa 
Nominal Potency: 
250 
500 
1000 
1500 
IU/vial 
Excipients: 
Trehalose 
Histidine 
Tris 
Sodium Chloride 
Calcium Chloride 
Gluthatione 
(reduced) 
Polysorbate-80 
(vegetable derived) 
Mannitol 
mg/ml 
Specification 
8.0 
1.6 
1.2 
5.3 
0.2 
8.0 
1.6 
1.2 
5.3 
0.2 
8.0 
1.6 
1.2 
5.3 
0.2 
8.0 
1.6 
1.2 
5.3 
0.2 
In-house specification 
Ph.Eur.  
Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
0.08 
0.08 
0.08 
0.08 
In-house specification 
0.1 
32 
0.1 
32 
0.1 
32 
0.1 
32 
Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
Diluent 
Water for Injection 
5 ml 
5 ml 
5 ml 
5 ml 
Ph.Eur.  
In  addition,  traces  of  host  cell  proteins  and  murine  IgG,  which  derive  from  the  fermentation  and 
purification process, are found in the product.  
The  container  closure  system  complies  with  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.Eur..  Functional studies like 
coring and bacterial barrier characteristics established the suitability of the container and closure. The 
lyophilised powder for injection is presented in 5 ml single-dose vials of neutral borosilicate Type I 
glass with Teflon coated chlorobutyl rubber stoppers. The solvent is presented in 10 ml Type I glass 
vials  with  chlorobutyl  rubber  stoppers.  The  medical  devices  are  CE-marked  and  compatibility  with 
ADVATE has been demonstrated. 
Drug substance 
Description of Active Sustance 
Octocog alfa is a glycoprotein. The full length protein consists of 2332 amino acids with a molecular 
weight of approx. 280 kD before, and more than 300 kD after glycosylation. The amino acid sequence 
of rFVIII is similar to human Factor VIII, and posttranslational modifications are similar to those of 
the plasma-derived molecule. The single chain protein is rapidly processed in cell culture resulting in a 
heterodimer with an 80kD light chain deriving from the C-terminus, and a family of heavy chains with 
2/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
molecular  weights  between  90  and  210  kD,  including  the  90  kD  N-terminal  sequence  and  varying 
amounts of the B-domain. In the B-domain, which is not required for the co-factor activity of FVIII, 
19 of 25 potential N-linked glycosylation sites are located. The protein also contains 10-12 O-linked 
glycans. Evidence suggests, that all or most of the O-linked glycans reside in the B-domain. 
Gene construct, producer strain 
The production cell line for ADVATE (clone GD8/6) is derived from the same MCB (10A1C6) used 
for the production of Recombinate and was adapted to serum- and protein-free medium enriched with 
plant proteins and non-protein additives at the Baxter facility in Orth, Austria.  
Source,  history  and  generation  of  this  original  MCB  are  described.  Briefly,  in  the  first  step  an 
expression  plasmid  containing  the  FVIII  cDNA  was  co-transfected  into  dihydrofolate  reductase 
(DHFR)-deficient  CHO  cells  (DUKX-B11)  along  with  a  plasmid  expressing  a  DHFR-selectable 
marker to create the cell line 10A1. Methotrexate was then used to amplify FVIII expression. In the 
second  step,  the  MAA  decided  to  co-express  vWF  in  the  10A1  cells  along  with  FVIII  in  order  to 
stabilize  it.  An  expression  plasmid  containing  sequences  for  the  full-length  vWF  cDNA  and  an 
additional plasmid containing a  selectable adenosine deaminase (ADA) marker were introduced into 
the 10A1 cell line by protoplast fusion. Adenosine and deoxycoformycin (dCF) were used to select for 
expression of vWF. Based on high levels of expression of both Factor VIII and vWF, a single clonal 
cell line (10A1C6) was chosen for production. 
The development of cell line GD8/6 from the parent MCB 10A1C6 has been described in sufficient 
detail. Cells were adapted to serum and protein free culture medium, and a clone was chosen which 
displayed good growth characteristics, production of high FVIII and vWF activity, and similar FVIII 
banding patterns when compared to the original cell line. This clone was used to create the MCB 9710 
for the production of ADVATE.  
Cell banks 
1. Establishment of MCB/WCB, tests performed 
A classical two-tiered cell bank system with MCB and WCB has been set up at the Baxter facility in 
Hayward, USA. For production, WCB ampoules are shipped deep-frozen under validated conditions 
(temperature < - 90°C for max. 12 days) by air to the Neuchatel facility in Switzerland.  
The  MCB  and  WCB  have  been  extensively  tested  for  identity,  growth  and  secretion  characteristics, 
and adventitious agents with appropriate assays. Testing of the MCB for adventitious agents included 
a battery of tests for e.g. sterility (bacteria/funghi), mycoplasma, lytic viruses, in vitro tests for viruses 
(including  bovine  viruses),  in  vivo  tests  for  viruses,  and  an  assay  for  retroviruses.  No  adventitious 
agents were found.  
Each  WCB  is  tested  for  adventitious  agents  on  a  routinely  basis  including  tests  for  sterility 
(bacteria/funghi), mycoplasma, lytic viruses, in vitro tests for viruses (including bovine viruses) and in 
vivo tests for viruses. Appropriate release specifications are set. 
Genetic stability of cell banks 
The  genetic  stability  of  the  rFVIII  sequences  that  have  been  integrated  into  the  GD8/6  cells  was 
assessed using a variety of tests. First, the integrity of the Factor VIII and vWF DNA sequences in the 
Master  Cell  Bank  and  the  Post-Production  Cell  Bank  were  determined  in  order  to  verify  that  the 
coding sequences remain stable throughout the production process. Second, the structural integrity of 
the expression cassettes was examined using Southern blot methodology. Third, real-time quantitative 
PCR was used to determine the overall copy number of the inserted genes, and to confirm the genetic 
stability  data  from  the  Southern  blots.  The  results  from  these  studies  indicate  that  roughly  25-100 
copies of the rFVIII gene and a few copies of the vWF gene are integrated into the GD8/6 genome, 
and that these sequences are stable through at least 78 generations, well beyond the production limit of 
65 generations. 
3/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fermentation and purification 
Drug substance batches at pilot scale for pivotal clinical trials were produced at the Baxter facility in 
Vienna, Austria and drug substance batches at commercial scale for the pivotal clinical trials and to be 
marketed were/will be produced at the Baxter facility in Neuchatel, Switzerland. 
Batch and scale definition  
One production campaign is defined as all drug substance batches derived from the same WCB vial(s) 
and continuous culture and consists of approximately 20 drug substance batches. One drug substance 
batch is defined as the batch resulting from one elution step of the immunoaffinity column. Usually, 
three harvests are loaded and purified to produce one batch of drug substance. One harvest is defined 
as the amount of cell suspension collected from the 2500 L bioreactors in a 24-hour period (1250 L 
per bioreactor per day). One drug substance batch is defined by a batch volume of 700 to 1400 ml, and 
a potency of 1250 IU/ml minimum and a specific activity of 4000 to 10000 IU/mg protei, respectively. 
Fermentation 
The  cell  culture  process  (from  WCB  vial  to  harvest)  has  been  sufficiently  described.  In  brief,  the 
inoculum expansion process utilizes a batch/refeed process over approximately 20 generations. One or 
two WCB  vials are inoculated and expanded in roller bottles. This inoculum is subsequently further 
expanded using three bioreactor steps of which the last one is a 2500 L bioreactor. The contents of the 
2500 L tank are used to inoculate a second 2500 L bioreactor, and both are then used for production. 
The Applicant maintains a backup culture in one of the smaller bioreactors to re-inoculate the 2500 L 
tank if necessary. 
For production, a continuous (chemostat) culture method with well-defined medium, which is free of 
human and animal derived proteins, is used. The continous culture is maintained up to 65 generations 
from thawing of the WCB vials. This means 60 days of continuous culture after the expansion phase. 
As the cells grow exponentially, rFVIII is produced and secreted into the medium.  
Appropriate  in  process  controls  and  limits  are  in  place  during  expansion  and  continuous  culture  for 
a.o. cell density/viability/doubling time, pH, dissolved oxygen, and temperature. The culture is tested 
for  mycoplasma,  sterility,  and  adventitious  agents  at  the  end  of  the  campaign.  The  harvest  is  tested 
specifically for the presence of MMV virus.  
Purification 
The purification process of rAHF-PFM is similar to the purification process for Recombinate. A new 
solvent/detergent  step  (1%  Triton-X-100,  0.3%  Polysorbate  80,  0.3%  TNBP  (tri-N-butyphosphate)) 
has been introduced which is specifically aimed at viral inactivation. The process is based on four key 
steps:  i)  immunoaffinity  chromatography,  ii)  cation  exchange  chromatography,  iii)  solvent/detergent 
virus  inactivation,  and  iv)  anion  exchange  chromatography.  These  steps  have  been  analysed  and 
described  in  detail.  Validation  of  the  removal  of  impurities  derived  from  the  fermentation  and 
purification  process  such  as  host  cell  proteins,  host  cell  DNA  and  murine  have  been  performed. 
Column lifetimes can be provisionally approved but regular updates are requested until final resin life 
times are set.  
The eluate of the anion exchange chromatography represents the drug substance, which is frozen and 
stored at –80 °C. 
Monoclonal antibody 
The most important step with regards to selectivity and purification factor during the manufacture of 
ADVATE  is  the  use  of  a  monoclonal  antibody  (MAb)  for  immuno  affinity  purification.  The 
monoclonal antibody F8.1 is produced at the Baxter facility in Hayward, CA, USA and is also used for 
the  purification  of  the  already  licensed  rFVIII  product  Recombinate  as  well  as  the  plasma-derived 
FVIII  product  Hemofil.  However,  cell  banks  of  the  monoclonal  antibody  used  in  the  rAHF-PFM 
purification process have been adapted to serum and protein free medium. This antibody recognises an 
epitope  on  the  rFVIII  heavy  chain,  which  can  be  further  localised  to  the  43  kDa  fragment  after 
thrombin digestion of rAHF-PFM. The monoclonal antibody is manufactured under the concept of a 
two-tiered cell bank system in which the MCB is used to generate the WCB. Characterisation of the 
cells banks follows the current guidelines and results are satisfactory. Data from a postproduction cell 
4/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bank assure stability of expression. Starting from the MCB a plasma /albumin free medium is used for 
the  production  of  the  monoclonal  antibody.  The  unprocessed  bulk  is  tested  for  viral  and  bacterial 
contamination.  Purification  of  the  MAb  includes  a  protein  A  affinity  chromatography.  Removal  of 
protein  A  has  been  validated.  Control  methods  and  routine  release  specifications  for  the  uncoupled 
Anti-FVIII MAb and the Anti-FVIII coupled MAb resin are acceptable. Currently there are three lots 
of  the  uncoupled  antibody  on  stability  study  and  stability  data  for  two  lots  over  three  months  have 
been  provided  and  this  storage  time  can  be  approved  at  present.  Three  lots  of  the  immuno  affinity 
resin have been put on stability. At present data from 1 lot for 36 months, one lot for 18 months and 
one lot for 3 months. A shelf life of the resin of 18 months can be approved. The MAb appears to be 
suitable for use in the manufacture of ADVATE with respect to safety and functional aspects. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The manufacturing process of the drug substance is monitored by adequate in-process controlls. 
Process validation  
Extensive process validation was performed at the commercial scale production facility in Neuchatel 
and designed to validate routine process and scale in both manufacturing Suites A and B. A battery of 
biochemical  and  biophysical  methods  for  characterisation  studies  was  employed.  Evaluation  of 
validation data indicated that the inoculum, buildup, cell culture, and purification process are capable 
of consistently producing drug substance in Suite A and B with comparable results, which meet pre-
determined  specifications.  In  addition,  it  was  demonstrated  that  drug  substance  produced  at  the 
beginning, middle and end of an extended production campaign are physico-chemically comparable. 
All process and product impurities were effectively removed to levels below the pre-determined limits. 
Therefore,  the  process  and  the  equipment  used  for  commercial  manufacturing  of  drug  substance  in 
Suite A and B are considered validated.  
Drug substance characterisation 
An extensive comparability exercise including data on the characterisation of the drug substance was 
submitted. The first objective of the comparability studies was to demonstrate comparability between 
ADVATE  pilot  scale  lots  and  Recombinate  lots  prior  to  initiation  of  clinical  trials.  Since  the 
application  for  ADVATE  is  a  full  and  unabridged  application,  these  data  were  considered  as 
supportive  information  only.  The  second  objective  was  to  show  comparability  between  ADVATE 
pilot and ADVATE commercial scale lots used in pivotal clinical studies.  
Characterisation of the drug substance was performed by appropriate methods allowing an assessment 
of  the  protein  primary  structure,  post-translational  modifications  (sulfatation,  glycosylation), 
secondary  structure,  tertiary  structure,  protein  heterogeneity,  and  protein  integrity,  process-  and 
product-related  impurities,  as  well  as  functional  properties  related  to  the  interaction  of  FVIII  with 
vWF,  thrombin,  and  FIXa.  With  regard  to  all  of  the  biochemical  and  biophysical  data  mentioned 
above,  the  applicant  demonstrated  that  rAHF-PFM  produced  at  both  pilot  and  commercial  scales  is 
comparable to each other. This observation is in agreement with results obtained in the pivotal clinical 
trial comparing ADVATE pilot and commercial scale batches.  
In order to corroborate the monosaccharide test results, the MAA will submit monosaccharide analysis 
data  from  a  represenatative  number  of  ADVATE  pilot  and  ADVATE  commercial  scale  batches 
including results on CHO cell-derived Neu-5Gc, which is an immunogen in humans. 
Specification of drug substance 
The  drug  substance  is  appropriately  controlled.  The  specifications  for  the  drug  substance  have  been 
justified and tightened based on the current history of manufacture. These limits are acceptable. The 
choice  of  control  methods  (e.g.  potency,  rAHF  immunoblot,  specific  activity,  oligosaccharides,  host 
cell  protein,  murine  monoclonal  antibody,  von  Willebrand  factor,  bioburden)  has  been  justified.  A 
specification  for  potency  has  been  introduced.  The  test  for  oligosaccharides  is  performed  on  each 
batch. With regards to quantification of N-linked oligosaccharides the MAA is currently working on 
the  validation  of this method. It is intended to  file a variation to change  the  oligosaccharide testing. 
The  applicant  is  asked  to  commit  to  introduce  a  SE-HPLC  (size  exclusion  high  pressure  liquid 
chromatography)  and  to  develop  an  RP-HPLC  (reverse  phase  high  pressure  liquid  chromatography) 
method  for  drug  substance  release  in  order  to  improve  detection  of  unwanted  degradation  and 
aggregation  products.  SEC  (size  exclusion  chromatography)  will  be  used  as  stability  indicating 
5/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
parameter  fordrug  substance.  The  western  blotting  should  be  replaced  by  a  SDS-PAGE  with  silver 
staining  because  of  superiority  in  detection  of  impurities  not  bearing  an  epitope  for  the  polyclonal 
antibodies.  
Batch to batch consistency 
Three lots rAHF-PFM produced at different times during commercial scale manufacturing in Suite A 
and B were analyzed using a battery of biochemical and biophysical methods for proteinchemical and 
functional characterisation. Regarding all data submitted, the production of recombinant human FVIII 
by serum- and protein-free CHO fermentation technology (rAHF-PFM) at commercial scale is highly 
consistent  throughout  the  entire  duration  of  the  fermentation  process.  Therefore,  it  can  be  expected 
that drug substance lots resulting from commercial production in Suite A and B will show very similar 
behavior  in  vivo  as  well,  independent  of  the  time  of  manufacture  and  the  production  site  within  the 
production phase.  
Stability of drug substance 
Baxter  has  initiated  stability  studies  to  determine  the  shelf  life  of  the  drug  substance.  Appropriate 
stability  parameters  have  been  selected.  For  1  production  campaign  with  35  lots  12-month  data  are 
availlable, for 4 other campaigns with 15 lots 6- month data are presented. Current stability data are 
provided for storage conditions (-80°C) and accelerated conditions of -25 °C or -40°C, respectively. 
Studies  are  ongoing  and  more  complete  stability  data  will  be  generated  post-approval.  The  stability 
data cover a shelf life of 18 months, which do not raise any concerns. A drug substance shelf life of 12 
months is approved at this time. 
The chemical composition of the bottle, screw cap and seal for storage of drug substance are provided 
and  the  material  qualification  and  product  compatibility  were  demonstrated.  In  real-time  stability 
studies the container was found suitable for storage of drug substance for up to 18 month at –80 °C.  
Other ingredients 
Excipients are of Ph.Eur. quality with the exception of trehalose and gluthatione (reduced). Both are 
controlled  by  in-house  specifications  and  meet  the  limits  for  residual  solvents  required  by  the  ICH 
guidelnie Q3C. 
Product development and drug product 
Product development 
The  main  objective  was  to  develop  a  stable,  pharmaceutically  acceptable  formulation  without  the 
addition of human albumin as stabiliser. The pharmaceutical development is described in detail with 
regard to the effect of changes in the composition of buffering substances, bulking agents, stabilisers 
and  antioxidants  on  the  recovery  and  stability  of  ADVATE  during  manufacture  and  long  term 
stability.  The  choices  as well as  the limits of the excipients have been justified. The  final, optmised 
formulation is pH neutral and contains polysorbate 80 (surfactant, vegetable-derived), sodium chloride 
and  calcium  chloride  (salts),  trehalose  (disaccharide  stabiliser),  mannitol  (bulking  agent),  Tris  and 
histidine (buffers), and gluthadione (reducing agent). 
Clinical trial formulations vs intended market formulation 
The same batch formula has been used for production of pilot and commercial scale batches used in 
the pivotal clinical trials.  
Manufacturing process 
Formulation,  lyophilization  and  finishing  operations  are  performed  at  Baxter  AG  Vienna,  Austria. 
Labelling  and  packaging  are  performed  at  Baxter  SA  Lessines,  Belgium.  It  is  stated  that  dedicated 
equipment will be used for the production of ADVATE. 
The manufacturing process is typical for a protein parenteral product. Briefly, frozen drug substance is 
thawed (water bath set point 20 °C), pooled (at 2 – 8 °C) and subsequently formulated by dilution with 
two  buffers:  normalisation  buffer  and  potency  dilution  buffer.  Initial  dilution  is  performed  with 
normalisation  buffer  (about  120%  of  target  potency)  and  afterwards  diluted  with  potency  dilution 
buffer to about 100% of the target potency. After sterile filtration the final bulk is filled into 6 ml glass 
6/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vials.  For  all  potencies  the  same  fill  volume  (2.12  g/ml)  is  applied.  Freeze-drying,  stoppering  and 
crimping are the final steps to yield drug product. Hoding times were adjusted as supported by studies. 
A prospective validation study will be performed in order to implement maximum process times and 
to  re-establish  maximum  times  for  process  holding.  The  MAA  is  currently  evaluating  the  need  for 
potency determination as an in-process control for the manufacture of the drug product prior to filling. 
Drug product specifications 
The final drug product is adequately controlled using validated methods, which are suitable to control 
the consistency and quality of the drug product. The panel of tests methods includes the determination 
of e.g. potency, specific activity, aggregates, solubility, identity and purity, endotoxins and glutathione 
(total and reduced) and others. The limits have been sufficiently justified. The release specification for 
rFVIII potency has been changed to 80% to 120% of the nominal potency reflecting the requirements 
of  the  Ph.Eur.  monograph  for  plasma-derived  FVIII  products.  The  applicant  changed  the  potency 
method  from  the  former  used  one  stage  clotting  to  the  chromogenic  method,  which  is  in  agreement 
with  Ph.  Eur.  The  in-house  standard  used  for  potency  has  been  calibrated  against  the  Mega  1  and 
WHO 6 international standard applying the one stage clotting as well as the chromogenic method. As 
the  single  results  are  close  together  for  all  determinations,  the  assigned  potency  of  the  In-house 
standard is the mean of these determinations. Based on current experience with the filling process of 3 
consistency batches of the 250 IU/vial strength and 3 batches of 1500 IU/vial, the process of targeting 
nominal  potency  has  very  much  improved.  Nevertheless,  it  is  noteworthy,  that all 6  lots exhibited a 
lower actual than nominal potency. 
Validation 
Originally,  three  consecutive  batches  of  250  IU/vial  were  manufactured  for  consistency.  The  MAA 
ammended  the  process  validation  of  the  drug  product  manufacture  by  i)  a  retrospective  process 
validation  including  one  lot  of  500  IU,  one  lot  of  1000  IU  and  3  lots  of  1500  IU  per  vial  and  ii)  a 
prospective validation including one lot of 500 IU, one lot of 1000 IU and 3 lots of 1500 IU per vial. 
All  lots  were  required  to  meet  product  release  specifications.  Both  studies  showed  that  the  process 
parameters  for  buffer  preparation  (normalisation  and  potency  dilution  buffer),  formulation,  sterile 
filtration;  filling  and  freeze-drying  complied  with  the  respective  requirements  of  the  batch  master 
record. Additional extensive testing was performed in both studies to evaluate product consistency and 
uniformity.  Parameters  tested  were:  potency,  appearance  of  lyophilised  cake  and  reconstituted 
product,  solubility,  residual  moisture,  absence  of  factor  VIII  aggregates.  Aggregates  were  not  tested 
for  retrospective  validation.  Drug  product  results  were  found  within  the  limits  of  the  drug  product 
specification. In summary, the MAA provided a prospective and a retrospective study for validation of 
the  manufacture  of  the  drug  product.  The  provided  study  reports  demonstrate  consistency  and 
uniformity of manufacture. 
Batch analyses 
All batch release tests have been transferred to EU sites. The release specifications were validated with 
batch analysis data from three qualification batches.  
Virus validation studies 
The fermentation processes of the rAHF-PFM and the anti-Factor VIII MAb 9801 are carried out with 
serum /protein-free media. This minimises a possible contamination for adventitious viruses. The cells 
used  for  production  of  rAHF-PFM  have  been  extensively  screened  for  viruses.  These  tests  failed  to 
demonstrate the presence of any viral contaminant in the MCB or WCB for rAHF-PFMA monoclonal 
antibody MAb 9801 is used for the purification of rAHF-PFM. Virus safety of this antibody has been 
sufficiently demonstrated by cell bank characterisation and validation of the MAb production process. 
Therefore, there are no concerns for the use of the MAb 9801 in the production process of ADVATE.  
The  most  important  step  in  the  purification  of  rAHF-PFM  is  the  S/D-treatment.  The  robustness  and 
effectiveness of this step for the inactivation of enveloped viruses has been demonstrated. In addition, 
the  purification  steps of ADVATE also contribute to  the  virus safety. However,  effectiveness of the 
immunoaffinity chromatography is virus specific and has only a very low effectiveness for removal of 
non-enveloped viruses (e.g. MVM). The other chromatographic steps further contribute virus specific 
but only to a low extent. Therefore, the overall inactivation/removal capacity of the ADVATE process 
7/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for  non-enveloped  viruses  is  limited.  However,  this  is  accepted  considering  that  the  production  is 
performed  in  protein-free  medium  and  that  the  MCB  and  WCB  have  been  extensively  investigated. 
Furthermore, routine virus screening for viruses including MVM is routinely performed at the end of 
the fermentation runs. 
TSE compliance 
Compliance with the TSE Guideline has been widely demonstrated. MCB and WCB, which are free 
from TSE-risk substances, have been established. The active drug substance is produced in a protein-
free culture medium. All amino acids contained in the cell culture media are from non-animal origin. 
Stability of the Product 
Fifteen batches of ADVATE have been included into ongoing stability studies. Up to 30 months data 
are available at present, however, the majority of data cover 18 or 24 months. The study report does 
not  evaluate  pilot  and  commercial  scale  batches  separately.  A  shelf  life  of  two  years  at  a  storage 
temperature of 2-8°C appears to be justified whereas the claim of the MAA for a 2 months storage at 
room temperature during the 2 years can not be granted because of the lack of real-time, real-condition 
data.  To  confirm  the  stability  of  the  ADVATE  FDP  during  storage,  three  lots  of  the  1500  IU 
presentation  manufactured  in  2002  have  been  added  to  the  stability  program.  In  addition,  the  MAA 
commits  to  adding  three  250  IU  lots,  one  500  IU  lot  and  one  1000  IU  lot  targeted  at  the  nominal 
potency to the ongoing stability program to bracket the potency range. In order to support storage at 
different temperatures a temperature cycling study will be initiated with one lot of each potency. Vials 
of  rAHF-PFM  FDP  will  be  stored  at  2°C  –  8°C  for  a  minimum  of  18  months.  After  18  months  of 
storage the samples will be moved to storage at +30°C for the remaining six months of the expected 
shelf  life.  After  finalisation  of  the  study  the  MAA  will  file  a  variation  for  approval  of  storage  at 
different temperatures. 
GMP compliance  
All  manufacturing  sites  are  GMP  compliant.  A  GMP  certificate  in  compliance  with  the  MRA 
agreement  with  Switzerland  covers  the  manufacturing  site  of  the  drug  substance  in  Neuchatel.  The 
MAA  will  adapt  the  clean  room  classification  from  class  D  to  class  C  for  the  buffer  and  media 
preparation area at its Neuchatel manufacturing site in order to comply in all aspects with EU GMP 
requirements. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  newly  developed,  protein-free  fermentation  process  and  the  modified  purification  process  are 
sufficiently  described  and  adequately  monitored  by  in-process  controls.  Extensive  validation  of  the 
manufacturing  process  for  the  drug  substance  at  commercial  scale  demonstrated  the  production  of 
drug  substance  of  consistent  and  comparable  quality  in  both  designated  manufacturing  suites.  The 
drug  substance  has  been  extensively  characterised  showing  the  comparability  of  pilot  scale  and 
commercial scale lots by using state of art techniques. Virus safety with regard to enveloped viruses 
was demonstrated. Compliance with the TSE guideline has widely been shown. The final drug product 
is  formulated  in  a  protein-free  buffer  containing  trehalose  as  stabiliser  and  is  adequately  controlled 
using validated methods.  
In summary, on the basis of the data provided and the agreed follow-up measures, the quality of the 
product is satisfactory for the granting of a marketing Authorisation. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Octocog  alfa  is  the  drug  substance  of  Recombinate  a  medicinal  product  already  authorised  and 
marketed in the EU.  
The  non-clinical  development  strategy  was  to  demonstrate  the  comparability  of  rAHF-PFM  to 
Recombinate  rAHF.  Comparing  the  physicochemical,  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic,  and 
toxicological profiles of Recombinate rAHF and rAHF-PFM accomplished this. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vivo studies  
8/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  98008-PT-012:  The  haemostatic  efficacy  of  Recombinate  and  rAHF-PFM  (here  the  three 
candidate  formulations)  were  compared  in  the  exon 16  knockout  haemophilic  mice.  Haemostatic 
efficacy was evaluated in terms of ability to stop bleeding and to raise plasma Factor VIII levels. The 
formulation  candidates  included  base  excipients  (10  mM HEPES,  10 mM Tris-HCl, 90 mM sodium 
chloride, 0.012% polysorbate 80, 0.08 mg/ml reduced glutathione and 1.6 mM calcium chloride) plus 
pairs  of  bulking/stabilising  agents  consisting  of  mannitol  and  arginine,  glycine  and  trehalose,  or 
mannitol and trehalose, all at final concentrations of 3.2% and 0.8%, respectively.  
Study 98008-PT-019: evaluated the selected formulation for rAHF-PFM (with mannitol / trehalose as 
the bulking / stabilising agents and with 10 mM histidine instead of HEPES).  
Haemophilic  mice  (5/sex/group)  each  received  a  single  intravenous  administration  of  Recombinate, 
150  IU/kg  or  rAHF-PFM,  150  IU/kg,  or  an  equivalent  volume  of  the  corresponding  formulation 
vehicles (controls). The mice were then anesthetized and their tails transected approximately 20 mm 
from the tip. Blood from the transected tails was collected over 20 minutes beginning 30 minutes post-
dosing and the volume of blood loss as a function of time was analysed.  
Results obtained from both studies were similar. The mean blood loss observed in the rAHF-PFM and 
Recombinate rAHF treatment groups over the 20 minutes observation period was comparable (160 – 
258  µl),  and  significantly  lower  than  the  formulation  vehicle  control  groups  (i.e.,  499  –  609  µl  for 
Study  98008  -PT-012  and  363  –  393  µl  for  Study  98008-PT-019).  Statistical  analysis  of  the  data 
demonstrated that infusions of Recombinate rAHF and the candidate rAHF-PFM formulations resulted 
in comparable restoration of haemostasis. Measurement of factor VIII activity in the plasmas of these 
haemophilic mice was performed in separate groups of animals (3/sex/group). The results showed that 
factor VIII activity in the rAHF-PFM infused animals and Recombinate rAHF infused animals were 
comparable and significantly higher than in the control groups. 
Study  98002-PT-018.  Studies  conducted  as  part  of  the  non-clinical  development  for  Recombinate 
rAHF showed equivalent efficacy of Recombinate rAHF drug substance and Hemofil T (pAHF).  
The addition of rAHF-PFM may restore homeostasis in these animals, but no comparison was made 
with wild-type animals. In addition, it is not clear whether the choice of a specific vehicle is based on 
these  pharmacodynamic  data  or  on  toxicity  data.  However,  since  the  clinical  use  will  be  based  on 
clinical criteria (e.g. reduction of bleeding episodes) further testing in mice will not provide additional 
information on the product.  
In conclusion, a knockout mouse model was used in the pharmacodynamic studies. The haemostatic 
efficacy of Recombinate rAHF and rAHF-PFM were compared. Both compounds were evaluated for 
their ability to stop bleeding and raise plasma Factor VIII levels (Reports 98008-PT-012 and 98008-
PT-019). Statistical comparisons of the data demonstrated that Recombinate rAHF and the candidate 
rAHF-PFM formulations tested exhibited comparable restoration of hemostasis. However, the lack of 
statistical differences is likely due to the small number of animals that leads to a high variance of the 
outcome  making  the  results  difficult  to  analyse  quantitatively.  Although  the  slope  of  the  activity  in 
time  of  all  products  tested  (with  different  vehicles)  in  study  98008-PT-012  is  similar,  the  variance 
does not allow any further conclusion (e.g. about the relative potency). However, based on the overlap 
of activity the PFM product has an activity approximately similar to Recombinate. 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
• 
No studies were performed to evaluate the safety pharmacology of rAHF-PFM. However, two studies 
were conducted with Recombinate rAHF to evaluate the safety pharmacology in vivo and in vitro. The 
in vivo studies were performed in mice, rats and dogs.  
Study 98002-PT-014: The effects of Recombinate rAHF on the respiratory and cardiovascular systems 
were evaluated in dogs. The results of this study suggested that Recombinate rAHF had no effects on 
normal functioning of the respiratory or circulatory stems in beagles under the conditions of this study. 
9/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  98002-PT-016:  Recombinate  rAHF  had  no  effect  on  the  general  behaviour,  central  and 
autonomic  nervous,  cardiovascular,  and  respiratory  systems,  nor  did  it  affect  smooth  muscles,  the 
digestive system, renal function, locomotors activity or body temperature. 
Study 98002-PT-020: No toxic effects on the animal’s heart, or respiratory rate or rectal temperature 
were observed for a period up to 120 minutes after infusion. 
Conclusion 
• 
In  conclusion,  the  pharmacodynamic  ability  to  stop  bleeding  of  rAHF-PFM  was  demonstrated  in  a 
haemophilic mouse model. The effects were quite similar to those of the predecessor Recombinate. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two additional pharmacokinetic studies, which focussed on the comparability of the pharmacokinetic 
profile  of  Recombinate  rAHF  and  rAHF-PFM  in  a  rat  model  (plasma  of  male  SD  rats)  were 
conducted.  The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rAHF-PFM  was  studied  using  the  three  rAHF-PFM 
candidate formulations in comparison to Recombinate. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profiles  for  three  rAHF-PFM  candidate  formulations  (test  article,  candidate 
formulation  were  with  HEPES  and  not  with  histidine  as  later  used  in  the  selected  formulation)  and 
Recombinate were compared in a rat model (studies 98008-PT-010 and 98008-PT-031).  
Male  Sprague-Dawley  rats  (15-17/group)  received  an  intravenous  bolus  of  400  IU/kg  of  either 
Recombinate or rAHF-PFM. A series of blood samples were collected prior to and after 5, 15, 30, 90, 
180, 300 and 420 minutes post injection of the products. A final blood sample was collected from all 
animals  at  24  hours  post  injection.  Human  Factor  VIII  activity  in  the  rat  plasma  samples  was 
quantified  using  a  monoclonal  antibody  capture/chromogenic  substrate  assay  specific  for  human 
Factor VIII. The mean values for AUC, half-life, retention time, and clearance rate for each group of 
test animals were estimated from the plasma Factor VIII activity assay results.  
The  lack  of  statistically  significant  differences  for  any  of  the  aforementioned  pharmacokinetic 
parameters  demonstrates  that  rAHF-PFM  and  Recombinate  have  comparable  pharmacokinetic 
profiles.  
Formulation 
Recombinate 
rAHF-PFM: 
Glycine/trehalose 
Mannitol/arginine 
Mannitol/trehalose* 
   *later selected formulation 
n 
17 
17 
16 
15 
AUC (IU/h/ml) 
5.90 ± 1.50 
t ½ (h) 
1.54 ± 0.33 
MRT (h) 
1.85 ± 1.08 
CL (ml/h/kg) 
71.9 ± 17.7 
5.81 ± 1.65 
6.51 ± 1.88 
6.75 ± 1.65 
1.64 ± 0.53 
1.50 ± 0.30 
1.55 ± 0.47 
1.98 ± 1.23 
1.77 ± 0.96 
2.44 ± 1.20 
76.3 ± 45.8 
65.9 ± 18.1 
63.3 ± 19.0 
A conclusion concerning the bioequivalence of Recombinate rAHF and the rAHF-PFM formulations 
cannot be drawn from this study since this study was not conducted with crossover design. In addition, 
the  fact  that  no  statistical  significant  differences  between  several  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were 
observed may be biased by the high variability of the observed AUC and t1/2 values. These data only 
suggest that the pharmacokinetic behaviour (AUC, t1/2, mean residence time and clearance rate) of the 
tested  formulations  is  approximately  similar  in  the  species  used  in  the  study  (rats).  No  additional 
animal studies are considered necessary, since bioequivalence has to be established in clinical studies. 
Absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  were  not  studied  with  rAHF-PFM  reference  was 
made to previous studies performed with Recombinate. The results are summarised below: 
Distribution:  125I-octocog  alfa  (Recombinate  formulation)  was  distributed  mostly  into  organs  and 
tissues  highly  vascularised  (Study  98002  -PT-007).  The  thyroid  gland  showed  the  highest 
concentrations  of  125I  -Recombinate.  The  highest  octocog  alfa  concentrations  were  observed  in  the 
following  organs  (in  decreasing  order  of  observed  concentrations):  the  spleen,  stomach,  liver,  lung, 
kidney and heart. A minimal amount was detected in the skeletal muscle and brain. One minute after 
the  infusion,  65%  of  total  infused  125I  –octocog  alfa  (dpm/ml)  were  present  in  the  blood.  After  five 
10/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
minutes following the infusion, the distribution of 125I –octocog alfa was 50% blood and at 24 hours, 
the only detectable 125I –octocog alfa was present in the thyroid. 
Metabolism:  Octocog  alfa  is  catabolised  by  proteases  in  the  plasma  and  liver.  Eight  hours  after  the 
administration,  about  one-third  of  radioactivity  in  the  plasma  was  present  in  metabolites.  As 
previously  mentioned,  24 hours  after  the  infusion,  significant  distribution  was  observed  only  in  the 
thyroid. 
Excretion:  The  relative  distribution  of  the  metabolites  of  125I  -radiolabelled  octocog  alfa  excreted  in 
the urine, bile and faeces was studied in rats. Octocog alfa was primarily excreted in the urine. During 
the first 48 hours after administration, approximately 63%, 23% and 1% of the total radioactivity was 
recovered in the urine, bile and faeces, respectively. By 72 hours after administration, approximately 
83% and 7% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in the urine and faeces, respectively. 
The amount of animal pharmacokinetic investigations as well as the choice of methods is considered 
appropriate  since  factor  VIII  is  an  endogenous  human  protein  with  a  relatively  simple  metabolic 
pathway. These results did not reveal any unexpected findings. 
Toxicology 
The  purpose  of  the  rAHF-PFM  development  program  was  to  demonstrate  comparability  with 
Recombinate rAHF.  
• 
Single dose toxicity 
With  rAHF-PFM  two  single-dose  studies  were  conducted,  one  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  one  in 
New  Zealand  White  rabbits.  Since  the  rAHF-PFM  studies  did  not  include  Recombinate  as  a 
concurrent  reference  article,  separate  studies  were  conducted  with  Recombinate  (and  subsequently 
used  as  reference  data).  During  the  non-clinical  development  of  Recombinate,  single  dose,  toxicity 
studies were conducted in rats, ferrets and dogs. These results were similar as far as the design and the 
criteria used to assess the toxicity of the product are concerned. These studies are listed below: 
Study 98008-PT-16 (Single-Dose Toxicity Study of rAHF-PFM in Rats) 
Young  adult  Sprague-Dawley  rats  (5/sex/group)  were  given  a  single  intravenous  infusion  of  the 
selected rAHF-PFM formulation at one of three doses: 475, 1,900 or 4,750 IU/kg. For each dose, the 
rate  of  infusion  was  standardised  at  2-3  ml/min.  These  animals  were  sacrificed  on  day  14  post-
treatment. A negative control group of 5 rats/sex received 40 ml/kg of normal saline (maximum dose-
equivalent volume). The key observations in this study included clinical signs of toxicity (once daily), 
changes in body weight (weekly), clinical pathology findings (day 14), and gross necropsy findings. 
No  treatment-related  effects  were  observed  at  any  dose  level. There were no  remarkable differences 
between  the  treatment  and  the  saline  control  groups  for  any  of  the  aforementioned  key  study 
observations.  Thus,  a  single  intravenous  infusion  of  rAHF-PFM  at  doses  up  to  4,750  IU/kg  did  not 
produce any toxicologically significant treatment-related effects in rats. 
Study 98008- PT-017 (single-Dose Toxicity Study of rAHF-PFM in Rabbits) 
The  study  was  conducted  in  New  Zealand  White  rabbits  (4/sex/group)  that  were  given  a  single 
intravenous  infusion  of  the  selected  rAHF-PFM  formulation  (same  doses  as  those  given  in  the 
previous study). 
No treatment-related effects were observed at any dose. There were no remarkable differences in any 
of the key study parameters between the treatment and saline control groups.  
Study 98008-PT-022 (single-Dose Toxicity Study of Recombinate in Rats) 
11/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study was conducted in young adult Sprague-Dawley rats (5/sex/group) that were given a single 
intravenous infusion of Recombinate at a dose of either 950 or 2,400 IU/kg at rates of infusion of 1.4 
to 2.0 ml/min.  
Once again, no treatment-related effects were observed in any study group. There were no remarkable 
differences in any of the key study parameters between the treatment and control groups.  
Study 98008-PT-024 (single-Dose Toxicity Study of Recombinate in Rabbits) 
New  Zealand  white  rabbits  (4/sex/group)  were  given  a  single  intravenous  infusion  of  Recombinate 
rAHF  at  doses  of  950  and  2,400  IU/kg.  All  infusions  were  administered  at  an  approximate  rate  of 
5 ml/min. 
No treatment-related effects were observed in any study group. There were no remarkable differences 
between the treatment and control groups for any of the key study parameters.  
Study  98002-PT-001  through  Study  98002-PT-009  (single-Dose  Toxicity  Studies  of  Recombinate  in 
Rats, Ferrets and Dogs). 
During  the  development  of  Recombinate  rAHF,  eight  studies  were  conducted  to  compare  the  acute 
toxicity of Recombinate and Hemofil-T. The species used for testing included rats, ferrets and dogs. 
The  doses  of  Recombinate  rAHF  tested  ranged  from  100  IU/kg  to  10,000  IU/kg.  Toxicity  was 
evaluated following intravenous, intraperitoneal or subcutaneous routes of administrations. Changes in 
the  manufacturing  site  and  processes  prompted  the  performance  of  multiple  acute  toxicity  studies, 
which compared drug from the three manufacturing sites where the test material was produced  
The results showed that the acute toxicity profile of Recombinate rAHF was comparable to Hemofil T. 
No mortality was observed in any dose group or in any species. In rat and ferret studies that included 
Hemofil T  as  the  reference  article,  there  were  no  differences  between  the  test  and  reference  article 
groups  in  the  type  or  frequency  of  clinical  signs  suggestive  of  toxicity,  changes  in  body  weights, 
clinical  chemistry  findings,  gross  necropsy  and  histopathologic  findings.  No  dose-response 
relationship was observed among rAHF-treated groups. 
In  ferret  studies  (Study  98002-PT-004),  the  high-dose  females  on  day  14  post-treatment  showed  a 
slight  but  statistically  significant  increase  in  the  percentage  of  reticulocytes  in  their  blood  (1.08%  + 
0.34) compared to the other groups (0.32 –0.37%). This finding was not observed in a corresponding 
group  of  male  ferrets.  All  values  were  within  the  reference  range  and  slightly  lower  than  those 
observed  pre-treatment  (1.38  –  2.05%).  There  were  no  other  changes  in  haematologic  parameters 
noted. The interpretation of this finding was that it was not considered a treatment-related effect. 
In  dogs  (Study  98002-PT-009),  reddening  of  the  skin  was  seen  soon  after  dosing  in  all  animals.  In 
addition, females showed skin oedema in the head area. Dogs received 2,500 IU/kg rAHF showed a 
transient restlessness followed by a decrease in spontaneous activity. These signs disappeared within 
minutes to a few hours after dosing. Two hours post-dosing, a slight decrease in body temperature was 
seen in the mid-dose female and both dogs in the high dose group. The body temperature returned to 
normal by 4 hours post-dosing. No other abnormality was observed. Since this study did not include 
Hemofil T  treated  animals  as  a  reference  group,  it  was  not  possible  to  determine  if  there  was  any 
difference  in  acute  toxicity  between  the  latter  and  rAHF.  However,  the  above-described  adverse 
reactions that were observed in association with the administration of rAHF were minor and readily 
reversible. 
No  acute  toxicity  was  observed  in  rat  and  rabbit  studies  where  the maximal rAHF-PFM dose tested 
was  twice  that  for  Recombinate.  Neither  rAHF-PFM  nor  Recombinate  was  irritating  to  the  veins  or 
peri-venous tissue in rabbits. Repeat-dose toxicity studies of several candidates as well as the selected 
formulation  vehicles  and  a  literature  review  to  research  the  safety  of  major  excipients  were 
undertaken.  
12/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Repeated dose toxicity studies 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies have not been performed with rAHF-PFM. The applicant provided data 
from repeated dose toxicity studies to evaluate the toxicity of the formulation vehicle for rAHF-PFM 
and  studies  upon  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  of  Recombinate,  which  had  already  been  submitted  in  the 
marketing authorisation application for Recombinate.  
• 
Studies conducted with the formulation vehicle for rAHF-PFM 
Two 30 days repeated dose toxicity studies were conducted to evaluate the toxicity of the formulation 
vehicle for rAHF-PFM in rats and rabbits (Reports 98008-PT-029 and 98008-PT-030). The purpose of 
these  studies  was  to  identify  potential  toxicological  effects  or  interactions  among  the  formulation 
vehicle ingredients.  
There was no mortality in any groups. The incidence of clinical and ophthalmic findings was similar 
for the treatment and control groups. There were no differences in food consumption, changes in body 
weights,  haematology  and  clinical  pathology  parameters,  and  organ  weights.  Further,  there  was  no 
difference in histological findings between the control and high dose groups. The low and mid dose 
groups  and  all  the  recovery  groups  were  not  examined  histologically  due  to  the  lack  of  treatment-
related effect in the high dose groups.  
These results demonstrated that the safety profile of the formulation vehicle for rAHF-PFM in rats and 
rabbits was comparable to that of saline when given intravenously for 30 consecutive days at doses up 
to 40 mL/kg, the highest technically feasible dose. 
• 
Studies conducted with rAHF 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies were conducted with rAHF (Recombinate) (Reports  98002-PT-010, -
PT-015 and -PT-023), rats and monkeys were intravenously infused with Recombinate or Hemofil T 
daily for up to 28 days. In Recombinate treated-groups doses ranged from 250 to 1000 IU/kg/day in 
rats and 125 to 500 IU/kg/day in monkeys. Hemofil T doses were 1000 IU/kg and 500 IU/kg in rats 
and  monkeys,  respectively.  Results  of  these  studies  showed  that  Recombinate  and  Hemofil T 
possessed almost identical toxicity profiles. There was no mortality in any of the study groups. There 
were  no  treatment-related  effects  regarding  cage  side  observations,  food  consumption,  body  weight 
changes,  ophthalmic,  clinical  pathology,  haematology,  findings,  urinalysis,  gross  necropsy  or 
histopathologic examinations. Compared with baseline, a statistically significant increase in activated 
partial  thromboplastin  time  was  observed  in  all  study  groups  for  both  species.  This  increase  was, 
comparable  for  Hemofil T  and  Recombinate  study  groups.  Neutralising  anti-Factor  VIII  antibodies 
were detected in all treatment groups. 
Thirty days repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and rabbits with the selected formulation vehicle and 
a  30-days  repeated  dose  toxicity  study  in  male  rats  with  earlier  candidate  formulation  vehicles  was 
conducted. No formulation vehicle-related toxicity was observed at the maximal feasible doses in rats 
and rabbits in any of these studies. 
• 
Genotoxicity 
No  genotoxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  rAHF-PFM.  These  studies  were  performed  with 
Recombinate,  i.e.  Recombinate  drug  substance  was  evaluated  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  as  part  of  the 
Recombinate  development  program.  The  mutagenic  potential  of  Recombinate  drug  substance  was 
evaluated for its ability to induce reverse gene mutations in bacteria in the presence and absence of S9 
fraction (Ames Test, Study 98002-PT-011). The clastogenic potential of Recombinate drug substance 
was  evaluated  by  investigating  the  induction  of  chromosomal  aberrations  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary 
cells in the presence and absence of S9 fraction (Study 98002-PT-012). The clastogenic potential of 
Recombinate was also evaluated in vivo by testing its ability to induce micronuclei formation in bone 
marrow  cells  in  mice  (Study  98002-PT-013).  In  each  of  these  test  systems,  Recombinate  drug 
substance was found to be non-mutagenic and non-clastogenic. 
13/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term  studies  in  animals  to  evaluate  carcinogenic  potential  have  been  performed  neither  for 
rAHF-PFM  nor  for  Recombinate.  Since  factor  VIII  is  an  endogenous  coagulation  protein,  it  is  not 
expected to be carcinogenic.  
• 
Local tolerance 
Study 98008-PT-018 (tissue irritability Study of rAHF-PFM in Rabbits) 
Equal  numbers  of  young  adult  New  Zealand  White  rabbits  were  given  the  selected  rAHF-PFM 
formulation either by intravenous injection at a volume of 10 ml (n=6 males) or perivascular injection 
at  a  volume  of  0.2  ml  (n=6  males).  Normal  saline  (control)  was  given  either  intravenously  or 
perivenously in equivalent volumes. For intravenous injections, 10 ml of the test article was injected 
into the left marginal ear vein while an equal volume of the control article was injected into the right 
marginal  ear  vein.  For  perivenous  administration,  0.2 ml  of  the  test  article  was  injected  into  the 
subcutaneous tissue adjacent to the left marginal ear vein with the corresponding right ear serving as 
the control. The degree of irritation at and around the injection sites was scored macroscopically at 4, 
24  and  72  hours  post-dosing.  Three  rabbits  per  group  were  sacrificed  at  24  and  72  hours  post-
treatment for evaluation of microscopic inflammation at the injection sites. 
No treatment-related effects were observed, neither irritation nor inflammation was observed in any of 
the treatment groups. Thus, the selected rAHF-PFM formulation was considered non-irritating under 
the described test conditions.  
Finally, one study evaluated the tissue irritability of Recombinate (Study 98008-PT-026). 
No-treatment-related effects were observed microscopically at either 24 or 72 hours post-treatment. A 
few minimal to mild foci of dermal inflammation and/or haemorrhage were observed in the perivenous 
Recombinate treated ear sections. However, the mean overall microscopic scores were similar for the 
Recombinate and saline groups.  
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  purpose  of  the  rAHF-PFM  development  program  was  to  demonstrate  comparability  with 
Recombinate rAHF wherever possible.  
Animal  testing  of  rAHF-PFM  was  conducted  in  two  phases.  The  first  phase  concentrated  on  the 
evaluation of candidate formulation vehicles and more specifically, the selection of a suitable bulking 
and  stabilising  agent.  Three  pairs  of  bulking/stabilising  agents  were  evaluated.  These  combinations 
consisted of mannitol and trehalose, mannitol and arginine, and glycine and trehalose (each pair 3.2% 
[w/v,  bulking]  and  0.8%  [w/v,  stabilising],  respectively).  Pharmacology,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicology  studies  of  rAHF-PFM  were  conducted  with  one  or  all  of  the  aforementioned  pairs  of 
bulking/stabilising  agents.  Repeated  dose  toxicology  was  also  done  using  bulking  and  stabilising 
agents  plus  excipients  in  the  absence  of  rAHF-PFM.  The  bulking  and  stabilising  agents  that  were 
ultimately chosen for further development were mannitol (bulking) and trehalose (stabilising). In the 
second  phase,  studies  were  conducted  to  compare  the  haemostatic  efficacy,  pharmacokinetics  and 
acute toxicity profile of rAHF-PFM and Recombinate rAHF and to evaluate the repeated dose toxicity 
of the selected rAHF-PFM formulation vehicle. 
No  acute  toxicity  was  observed  in  rat  and  rabbit  studies  where  the maximal rAHF-PFM dose tested 
was  twice  as  high  than  for  Recombinate.  Neither  rAHF-PFM  nor  Recombinate  was  irritating  to  the 
veins or perivenous tissue in rabbits. Repeat-dose toxicity studies of several candidates as well as the 
selected  formulation  vehicles  and  a  literature  review  to  research the safety of major excipients were 
undertaken.  
14/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thirty days repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and rabbits with the selected formulation vehicle and 
a  30 days repeated  dose toxicity study  in male  rats with earlier  candidate formulation vehicles were 
conducted. No formulation vehicle-related toxicity was observed at the maximal feasible doses in rats 
and rabbits in any of these studies. 
A  literature  review  was  conducted  for  each  of  the  four  major  excipients  included  in  the  selected 
RAHF-PFM  formulation:  trehalose  (Report  SR06CT99142),  mannitol  (Report  SR06CT99139), 
reduced glutathione (The Desaiah Report, 2001) and Tris (The Northup Report, 2000). Each of these 
excipients has been used in other intravenously administered drug products. A brief summary of these 
reviews  is  provided  in  the  non-clinical  written  summary.  These  literature  reviews  raised  no  safety 
concerns  regarding  the  proposed  use  of  these  excipients.  In  addition,  no  toxicological  effects  from 
these substances are expected. 
Repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and safety pharmacology studies have not been conducted with 
rAHF-PFM. Extensive physicochemical comparability testing as well as the non-clinical comparison 
studies described herein indicate that the active drug ingredient in Recombinate rAHF and rAHF-PFM 
are  virtually  identical.  Since  repeated  dose  toxicity,  genotoxicity  and  safety  pharmacology  of 
Recombinate drug substance have been adequately investigated in conjunction with the Recombinate 
rAHF  development  program,  it  was  considered  unnecessary  to  conduct  these  studies  as  part  of  the 
rAHF-PFM program.  
In conclusion, the applicant provided results from two single dose and one tissue irritability studies. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  was  tested  as  well,  but  only  with  the  formulation  vehicle.  Supportive 
information  has  been  provided  from  toxicological  investigations  with  the  predecessor  Recombinate, 
i.e.  studies  upon  single  and  repeat-dose  toxicity,  genotoxicity  and  local  tolerance.  In  addition,  the 
formulation candidates have also been evaluated in terms of single and repeat dose toxicity as well as 
local tolerance. All the presented investigations did not reveal any safety concerns.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The application is supported by data from four clinical studies, which enrolled a total of 131 patients 
with moderately severe to severe haemophilia A, 128 of whom were treated with rAHF-PFM.  
An overview of the design, enrolment and formulation of rAHF-PFM (pilot or commercial) used in the 
pivotal  study  (069901),  the  continuation  study  (060102),  supportive  study  in  surgery  (069902)  and 
study (060101) in paediatric previously treated patients (PTPs) is summarised in the Table below. The 
design of all studies consists of an evaluation of pharmacokinetics (limited in study 069902), clinical 
efficacy and safety including immunogenicity of rAHF-PFM. 
Along with other regulatory guidelines that may applicable to this Application, the evaluation of this 
dossier  took  into  account  the  recommendations  given  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  clinical 
investigation  of  recombinant  factor  VIII  and  IX  products  (CPMP/BPWG/1561/99)  dated 
October 2000. The Applicant did not seek any scientific advice from the CPMP.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
(cid:131)  Mechanism of action 
No  pharmacodynamic  studies  in  humans  have  been  performed  but  the  applicant  refers  to  animal 
studies.  This  is  acceptable  due  to  the  origin  of  factor  VIII  as  an  endogenous  human  protein  and the 
high  degree  of  comparability  between  findings  in  animal  studies  regarding  ADVATE  and 
Recombinate. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
15/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetics of rAHF-PFM was evaluated in all four studies. The design of these studies is 
summarised in the table below.  
Clinical pharmacokinetic studies conducted with rAHF-PFM 
Study number 
069901 Pivotal  
Design and type of r-AHF-PFM   
Patients were randomised to Part 1 + 2, or to Part 2 + 3. 
Part 1: Randomised crossover pharmacokinetic comparison 
of rAHF-PFM pilot and Recombinate. 
Part 2: Open-label, non-controlled, prophylactic treatment 
regimen for evaluation of the immunogenicity, safety 
and efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot formulation during 
a period of at least 75 exposure days. 
Enrolment 
n=111, 108 
treated. 
N=56, 54 treated.
N=107 treated. 
Part 3: Randomised controlled, double-blind crossover 
N=55, 51 treated.
pharmacokinetic comparison of rAHF-PFM pilot 
and rAHF-PFM commercial formulations. 
Part 1: Single arm, open-label, controlled evaluation of the 
pharmacokinetics and safety of rAHF-PFM 
commercial after at least 75 exposure days of 
treatment with rAHF-PFM pilot in study 069901. 
N=19, 13 
evaluable. 
Part 2: Open-label, non-controlled prophylactic or on-
demand treatment regimen for the evaluation of the 
safety, immunogenicity, and haemostatic efficacy of 
rAHF-PFM commercial. 
Multi-centre, prospective, open-label, non-controlled 
study of the safety and efficacy of rAHF-PFM in 
patients with severe or moderately severe 
haemophilia A who require a surgical, dental or 
other invasive procedure. 
All patients were treated with rAHF-PFM pilot. 
Minimums of 25 patients are planned. 
Part 1: Open-label, non-controlled evaluation of the 
pharmacokinetics and short-term safety of rAHF-
PFM commercial. 
N=27, 13 
evaluable for 
efficacy, 27 for 
immunogenicity. 
N=10, 4 from 
study 069901 
and 6 additional 
patients. 
N=14, all treated.
060102 
Continuation  
(only for subjects 
who completed 
treatment of Part 1 
and 2 of study 
069901) 
Ongoing study  
069902 Surgery 
Ongoing study  
060101 Paediatric 
PTPs < 6 years of 
age 
Ongoing study 
Part 2: Open-label determination of the immunogenicity, 
haemostatic efficacy and safety of rAHF-PFM 
commercial. At least 50 exposure days according to 
a treatment regimen determined by the site 
investigator. 
No available 
data. 
A minimum of 50 patients are planned. 
1. 
Description of the study 069901 
The study 069901 is the pivotal and is divided into 3 parts.  
The  first  part  (part  1)  was  a  randomised  controlled  crossover  pharmacokinetic  comparison  of 
Recombinate  and  rAHF-PFM  (pilot)  with  the  objective  of  demonstrating  bioequivalence  based  on 
AUC(0-48) and adjusted recovery, for these two products.  
16/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  second  part  (part  2)  consisted  of  an  open  uncontrolled  prophylactic  treatment  regimen  for 
evaluation  of  safety  (and  in  particular  immunogenicity)  and  efficacy  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot  during  a 
period of at least 75 exposure days. 
The  third  part  (part  3)  was  a  randomised  controlled  double-blind  crossover  pharmacokinetic 
comparison  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  rAHF-PFM  commercial  with  the  objective  of  demonstrating 
bioequivalence, based on AUC(0-48) and adjusted recovery for the pilot scale and the commercial scale 
rAHF-PFM. 
The main characteristics and criteria for inclusion were:  
• 
Diagnosis  of  severe  (baseline  factor  VIII  ≤  1%)  or  moderately  severe  (baseline  factor  VIII  ≤ 
2%) haemophilia A, 
History of at least 150 exposure days to all other factor VIII products, 
Age ≥ 10 years and weight > 35 kg, 
No  detectable  inhibitors  to  factor  VIII  in  the  local  haemostasis  laboratory  at  the  investigative 
site at the time of enrolment, 
No history of factor VIII inhibitors > 1.0 BU, 
HIV-1 seronegative or, if HIV-1 seropositive, CD4+ lymphocyte count ≥ 400/mm3, 
No known hypersensitivity to Recombinate, 
And a written informed consent. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The design of the pivotal study is depicted in the figure below.  
Subjects randomised to Part 2 and 3 underwent an initial factor VIII recovery study, prior to initiating 
prophylactic  treatment  on  Part  2,  in  order  to  provide  initial  abbreviated  pharmacokinetic  data  for 
rAHF-PFM pilot. Upon completion of Part 2 (at least 75 exposure days), these subjects continued with 
pharmacokinetic assessment on Part 3. 
17/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Study design for pivotal study 069901 
Eligible subjects 
Randomisation 
Parts 1 and 2 
Parts 2 and 3 
Part 1: Pharmacokinetics 
Randomisation 
Part 2: Prophylaxis with rAHF- PFMpilot 
Recovery study* 
Infusion 1: rAHF- PFMpilot 
Infusion 2: Recombinate 
Infusion 1: Recombinate 
Infusion 2: rAHF-PFMpilot 
Prophylaxis: 3-4 infusions/week for at least 75 exposure 
days 
Part 2: Prophylaxis with rAHF-PFM pilot 
Prophylaxis: 3-4 infusions/week 
for a least 75 exposure days 
Part 3: Pharmacokinetics 
Randomisation 
Recovery Study* 
Termination 
Optional 
Infusion 1: rAHF- 
PFMcommercial 
Infusion 2: rAHF- PFMpilot 
Infusion 1: rAHF- PFMpilot  
Infusion 2: rAHF- 
PFMcommerical 
Termination 
Optional 
Continuation study 
Continuation study 
(Baxter Protocol 060102) 
(Baxter Protocol 060102) 
*  Subjects  who  completed  treatment  on  Parts  1  and  2  could  forego  the  recovery  study  if  they  enrolled  on  Baxter  clinical 
060102 
The continuation study 060102 is an open uncontrolled study with all subjects receiving rAHF-PFM 
commercial.  Patients  randomised  to  and  who  completed  Parts  1  and  2  of  the  pivotal  study  were 
eligible to participate in a pharmacokinetic assessment in Part 1 of continuation study 060102. Part 2 
of  study  060102  is  open  for  all  patients  who  completed  the  pivotal  study,  received  no  factor  VIII 
products other than rAHF-PFM upon completion of the pivotal study and developed no inhibitors to 
factor VIII during this study. 
18/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Study design for continuation study 060102 
Part  1  of  study  060102  was  designed  to  compare,  in  a  single  cohort  of  patients,  pharmacokinetic 
parameters before and after at least 75 exposure days of treatment with rAHF-PFM pilot in Part 2 of 
the pivotal study 069901. This was achieved by comparing pharmacokinetic data from subjects treated 
with  rAHF-PFM  pilot  in  Part  1  of  clinical  study  069901  with  pharmacokinetic  data  from  the  same 
subjects  treated  with  rAHF-PFM  commercial  in  Part  1  of  study  060102.  The  primary  efficacy 
variables  were  comparisons  of  AUC(0-48)  and  adjusted  recovery.  A  minimum  of  12  subjects  was 
planned for this comparison to comply with the CPMP guideline.  
• 
Infusion of the investigational medicinal product and sample collection 
Parts  1  and  3  of  the  pivotal  study  were  respectively  a  crossover  pharmacokinetic  comparison  of 
Recombinate  with  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot  with  rAHF-PFM  commercial.  The  first 
infusion was to be given at a dose of 50 ± 5 IU/kg. The second infusion was administered in a non-
bleeding  state  after  at  least  a  72-hour  to  4-week  washout  period  after  the  first  pharmacokinetic 
infusion or after a prophylactic or therapeutic dose of Recombinate (Part 1) or rAHF-PFM (Part 3).  
To undergo the recovery studies in the pivotal study, subjects had  to be in a non-bleeding state and 
should not have received factor VIII for at least 72 hours prior to the infusion of rAHF-PFM pilot at a 
dose of 50 ± 5 IU/kg.  
Eight  lots  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot  were  used  in  pivotal  study  069901  and  one  lot  of  rAHF-PFM 
commercial in Part 3 of that study. 
19/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Part 1 of the continuation study, administration of the rAHF-PFM required that the subject was not 
bleeding  and  had  not  received  any  factor  VIII  for  at  least  72  hours  prior  to  the  infusion.  Eligible 
subjects were infused with rAHF-PFM commercial at a dose of 50 ± 5 IU/kg (identical to the dose in 
Part 1 of study 069901).  
Five lots of rAHF-PFM commercial were used in study 060102. However, according to the Clinical 
Summary  and  the  study  protocol,  all  patients  in  Part  1  received  the  same  lot  of  rAHF-PFM 
commercial. 
2. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The  highest  concentration  observed  in  the  plasma  following  the  administration  of  the  dose  (Cmax,) 
plasma  half-life,  the  area  under  the  plasma  concentration-time  curve  between  0  and  48h  after  the 
administration  (AUC(0-48)),  the  total  area  under  the  first  moment-time  curve  (AUMC),  the  clearance 
(CL),  the  mean  residence  time  (MRT)  and  the  apparent  volume  of  distribution  under  steady-state 
conditions    based  on  product  concentration  in  plasma  (Vss)  and  adjusted  recovery  were  calculated 
using standard statistical methods.  
3. 
Statistical analysis 
The  determination  of  bioequivalence  between  Recombinate  and  rAHF-PFM  pilot  in  Part  1  and 
between  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  rAHF-PFM  commercial  in  Part  3  of  the pivotal  study utilised natural 
log-transformed  AUC  (0-48)  and  adjusted  recovery.  It  was  based  on  the  calculation  of  the  90% 
confidence intervals for the difference in the log-transformed means for adjusted recovery and AUC. 
The results were analysed with an analysis of variance  
The primary analysis of bioequivalence was a per protocol analysis. The per-protocol analysis data set 
was  defined  to  be  a  subset  of  the  intent-to-treat  population  and  included,  in  the  pivotal  study, 
randomised subjects with no major protocol violations who: met all study entry criteria; received both 
study drug infusions for Part 1 or Part 3; were dosed according to the protocol, received the second 
infusion at a dose that was within 10% of the first infusion dose; had plasma factor VIII measurements 
at  all  assessment  time  points  for  both  study  drug  infusions;  did  not  develop  a  factor  VIII  inhibitor 
between  infusion  1  and  infusion  2  of  Part  1  or  Part  3;  were  not  bleeding  at  the  time  of  the 
pharmacokinetic  infusion;  received  the  second  pharmacokinetic  infusion  at  least  72  hours  after  the 
first pharmacokinetic infusion. 
A  descriptive  evaluation  was  performed  in  the  pivotal  study  of  the  secondary  pharmacokinetic 
parameters  (AUMC,  half-life,  CL,  MRT,  Vss,  and  Cmax)  without  a  formal  statistical  comparison 
between the groups. 
In  the  continuation  study  060102  the  comparisons  of  AUC  (0-48)  and  adjusted  recovery,  before 
treatment  and  after  at  least  75  exposure  days,  were  based  on  the  calculation  of  the  95%  confidence 
intervals  for  the  mean  difference  in  the  log-transformed  values.  These  confidence  intervals  were 
assessed against a zero difference. All secondary pharmacokinetic parameters (AUMC, half-life, CL, 
MRT, Vss, and Cmax) were reported using descriptive statistics. 
RESULTS 
4. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
A total of 111 patients from 23 investigative sites were enrolled in the pivotal study.  
In  study  069901  56  subjects  were  randomised  to  Part  1  and  2,  54  of  whom  were  treated  in  Part  1. 
Fifty-one  of  the  54  patients  treated  in  Part  1  met  the  criteria  for  inclusion  in  the  intention-to-treat 
analysis and 30 met the criteria for the per-protocol analysis.  
20/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fifty-five  patients were randomised to Part 2 and 3, 51 of whom were treated in Part 3 and met the 
criteria for inclusion in the intention-to-treat analysis. Thirty-seven of the 51 patients treated in Part 3 
met the criteria for inclusion in the per-protocol analysis.  
Nineteen  patients  were  enrolled  in  Part  1  of  study  060102,  14  of  whom  had  pharmacokinetic  data 
collected. Thirteen out of 14 patients were included for the per-protocol pharmacokinetic analysis. All 
subjects enrolled in Part 1 had a baseline factor VIII < 1%. 
In the recovery studies, among the 51 subjects who completed treatment in Parts 1 and 2 of the pivotal 
study, 34 were scheduled to enrol in the continuation study. Therefore, 17 patients had a factor VIII 
recovery determination at the completion of Part 2. Of the 55 subjects randomised to Parts 2 and 3 of 
the pivotal study, two subjects were missing factor VIII data for the recovery study. The remaining 53 
subjects underwent the adjusted recovery evaluation at the beginning of Part 2. 
5. 
• 
Results of pivotal study 069901 and continuation study 060102 
Pharmacokinetics 
The summary of the pharmacokinetic parameters in Part 1 and Part 3 are presented in the tables below. 
In part 1 of the study, the difference between the observed means for the log-transformed AUC  (0-48) 
(difference between rAHF-PFM pilot and Recombinate) was -0.001. The 90% CI [-0.04025; 0.03825] 
fell within the bioequivalence limits of [-0.223; 0.223]. 
The  difference  between  the  mean  log-transformed  adjusted  recovery  values  (difference  between 
rAHF-PFM pilot and Recombinate) was -0.0565 with a 90% CI of [-0.08926; 0.02374] which again 
fell  within  the  bioequivalence  limits  of  [-0.223;  0.223].  The  intent-to  treat  analyses  for  both 
pharmacokinetic parameters gave similar results. 
Table  2:  Summary  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  Part  1  of  study  069901  (per  protocol 
analysis) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC(0-48)  (IU.h/dL)
Cmax  (IU/dL)   
Adjusted recovery  
(IU/dL per IU/kg) 
Half-life (h) 
MRT (h) 
Vss  (dL/kg) 
CL  (dL/kg.h) 
AUMC  (IU.h2/dL) 
Recombinate (n=30) 
Range 
Mean 
rAHF-PFM pilot (n=30) 
Mean 
Range 
1515 
127 
2.55 
11.39 
20.41 
0.59 
0.03 
38343 
970-2205 
73-199 
1.47-3.89 
7.89 - 18.12 
10.53 - 43.86 
0.35 - 0.91 
0.02 - 0.05 
10487 - 118065 
1533 
119 
2.40 
11.98 
22.83 
0.60 
0.03 
52642 
876-2642 
77-195 
1.54-3.88 
6.74 - 24.70 
9.80 - 66.66 
0.33  - 0.90 
0.01 - 0.06 
10527 - 283097 
21/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  3:  Summary  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  Part  3  of  study  069901  (per  protocol 
analysis) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC(0-48)  (IU.h/dL)
Cmax  (IU/dL)   
Adjusted recovery  
(IU/dL per IU/kg) 
Half-life (h) 
MRT (h) 
Vss  (dL/kg) 
CL  (dL/kg.h) 
AUMC  (IU.h2/dL) 
rAHF-PFM pilot (n=37) 
Mean 
Range 
rAHF-PFM commercial (n=37) 
Mean 
Range 
1544 
129 
2.55 
11.60 
20.39 
0.60 
0.03 
38342 
856 - 2216 
89 - 206 
1.73 - 4.05 
7.59 - 15.03 
11.23 - 33.69 
0.34 - 1.15 
0.02 - 0.06 
10004 - 92453 
1494 
123 
2.46 
11.72 
20.96 
0.63 
0.03 
38573 
767 - 2392 
87 - 169 
1.71 - 3.41 
8.14 - 17.34 
12.18  - 41.04 
0.41 - 0.86 
0.02  -0.06 
10208 - 101434 
In part 3 of the study, the difference between the means for the log-transformed AUC (0-48) (difference 
between rAHF-PFM commercial and rAHF-PFM pilot) was -0.030. The 90% CI [-0.06548; 0.00548] 
fell within the bioequivalence limits of [-0.223; 0.223]. 
The difference of the means of the log-transformed mean adjusted recovery values (difference between 
rAHF-PFM  commercial  and  rAHF-PFM  pilot)  was  -0.0325  with  a  90%  CI  of  [-0.06362; 0.00138] 
which  again  fell  within  the  bioequivalence  limits  of  [-0.223;  0.223].  The  intent-to  treat  analyses  for 
both pharmacokinetic parameters gave similar results. 
Values  of  the  secondary  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  very  similar  among  the  three  studied 
products. 
• 
Comparison  of  pharmacokinetic  data  at  onset  and  after  at  least  75 exposure days to treatment 
with rAHF-PFM 
A  summary  of  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  the  13  patients  included  in  the  per-protocol 
pharmacokinetic analysis at the onset of treatment and after at least 75 exposure days with rAHF-PFM 
pilot is presented in Table 4. 
Table 4: Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters with rAHF-PFM in study 060102 
Parameters at onset of treatment* 
(n=13) 
Parameters after at least 75 
exposure days#  (n=13) 
Range 
Mean 
Range 
Mean 
1313 
7.14 
109 
2.21 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC(0-48)  (IU.h/dL)
ln AUC(0-48)@ 
Cmax  (IU/dL)   
Adjusted recovery  
(IU/dL per IU/kg) 
Half-life (h) 
MRT (h) 
Vss  (dL/kg) 
CL  (dL/kg.h) 
AUMC  (IU.h2/dL) 
* rAHF-PFM pilot in Part 1 of study 069901 
# rAHF-PFM commercial in Part 1 of study 060102 
@ log transformed value of AUC(0-48) 
11.10 
19.17 
0.64 
0.04 
32990 
876 - 2314 
6.78 - 7.75 
77 - 151 
1.54 - 3.02 
8.38 - 17.96 
9.80 - 40.56 
0.42 - 0.90 
0.02 - 0.06 
10527 - 129569 
1262 
7.09 
111 
2.20 
10.89 
18.14 
0.68 
0.04 
28231 
831 - 2731 
6.72 - 7.91 
73 - 151 
1.46 - 3.06 
9.24 - 13.92 
9.39 - 29.82 
0.43 - 0.94 
0.01 - 0.06 
10065 - 100710 
22/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  difference  of  the  log-transformed  mean  values  for  AUC(0-48)  (difference  between  rAHF-PFM 
commercial  and  rAHF-PFM  pilot)  was  0.546  and  the  95%  CI  was  [-0.031;  0.1405].  For  adjusted 
recovery,  the  difference  of  the  log-transformed  mean  values  (difference  between  rAHF-PFM 
commercial and rAHF-PFM pilot) was 0.014. The 95% CI was [-0.068; 0.0958].  
• 
Recovery studies (Study 069902) 
The adjusted recovery data in these two groups are summarised in Table 5. No formal comparison was 
done between the data before and after treatment with rAHF-PFM pilot in Part 2. 
Table 5: Summary of adjusted factor VIII recoveries in Part 2 of study 069901 
Randomised 
Group/Time point 
Factor VIII recovery 
(IU/dL per IU/kg) 
Mean  
SD 
Range 
Mean 
Factor VIII level 
(IU/dL) 
SD 
Range 
Parts 1 and 2  (n=17) 
30 minutes 
1 hour 
3 hours 
Parts 2 and 3  (n=53) 
30 minutes 
1 hour 
3 hours 
All  (n=70) 
30 minutes 
1 hour 
3 hours 
2.35 
2.18 
1.71 
2.24 
2.05 
1.67 
2.27 
2.08 
1.68 
0.44 
0.49 
0.34 
0.55 
0.50 
0.49 
0.53 
0.49 
0.46 
1.71 - 3.18 
1.04 - 3.05 
1.34 - 2.57 
1.25 - 3.65 
1.23 - 3.77 
0.89 - 3.45 
1.25 - 3.65 
1.04 - 3.77 
0.89 - 3.45 
121.3 
112.8 
88.9 
114 
105.2 
85.5 
116.1 
107.1 
86.3 
22.5 
26.2 
19.0 
29.1 
26.6 
25.1 
27.6 
26.5 
23.7 
83 - 160 
49 - 157 
65 - 133 
55 - 178 
48 - 186 
38 - 170 
55 - 178 
48 - 186 
38 - 170 
• 
Pharmacokinetic studies performed in patients who required a surgical, dental or other invasive 
procedure 
Study 069902 is a multi-centre prospective open-label uncontrolled study aimed at studying the safety 
and efficacy of rAHF-PFM in a minimum of 25 patients with severe or moderately severe haemophilia 
A (baseline factor VIII level ≤ 2%) who required a surgical, dental or other invasive procedure.  
This  interim  study  report  includes  data  on  10  patients  who  were  all  treated  with  rAHF-PFM  pilot. 
These  patients  received  a  loading  dose  ranging  from  48.0  to  69.8  IU/kg.  Post-infusion  factor  VIII 
levels were available in 9 patients. In all cases the target factor VIII level was met or exceeded and no 
additional loading doses of study drug were required in any of the patients.  
All  patients  with  available  data  post-infusion  achieved  the  target  levels  of  factor  VIII,  which  is 
expected considering the loading doses of 48 to 69.8 IU/kg and an expected recovery of 2 IU/dL per 
IU/kg.  One  patient  undergoing  a  dental  extraction  received  50.9  IU/kg  of  rAHF-PFM.  The  pre-
infusion level factor VIII level of 2% only rose to 70% of normal in this patient. Haemostatic efficacy 
during and after dental extraction was excellent, however.  
• 
Pharmacokinetic in children (study 060101) 
Pharmacokinetics in paediatric patients was evaluated in study 060101. This is an ongoing open multi-
centre uncontrolled study in patients with severe or moderately severe haemophilia A (baseline factor 
VIII ≤ 2%) younger than 6 years old. Other inclusion criteria were a history of at least 50 exposure 
days for all other factor VIII products, no detectable inhibitor to factor VIII, no history of a factor VIII 
23/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inhibitor  at  any  time  prior  to  screening,  no  inherited  or  acquired  haemostatic  defect  other  than 
haemophilia A, no known hypersensitivity to Recombinate, and written informed consent. 
Part  1  of  this  study  was  a  pharmacokinetic  evaluation  following  a  single  infusion  of  50  ±  5  IU/kg 
rAHF-PFM  commercial  in  a  non-bleeding  state.  Patients  should  not  have  received  an  infusion  of 
factor VIII for at least 72 hours prior to the pharmacokinetic infusion. 
The  primary  pharmacokinetic  response  variable  was  the  terminal  phase  half-life  of  rAHF-PFM 
commercial. 
One  lot  of  rAHF-PFM  commercial  was  used  during  the  period  covered  by  this  interim  report  that 
includes data on 14 patients. All 14 patients were included in the intent-to-treat analysis. Five of the 
14 patients were younger than 3 years of age and 9 were between 3 to 5 years of age. The mean ± SD 
weight was 17.6 ± 5.3 kg (range 10.8 to 27.2 kg) and the mean ± SD height 101.5 ± 15.4 cm (range 76 
to 121cm). Thirteen subjects were Caucasian. 
Eleven  patients  met  the  criteria  for  the  per-protocol  analysis.  A  summary  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters is provided in Table 6. A total of 50 subjects are to be enrolled in this study. 
Table 6: Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters in paediatric patients in study 060101 
Intent-to-treat analysis (n=14) 
Mean 
Range 
SD 
Per-protocol analysis (n=11) 
Range 
SD 
Mean 
1395 
7.19 
99 
1.96 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC(0-48)  (IU.h/dL)
ln AUC(0-48)@ 
Cmax  (IU/dL)   
Adjusted recovery  
(IU/dL per IU/kg) 
10.00 
Half-life (h) 
16.73 
MRT (h) 
0.58 
Vss  (dL/kg) 
0.04 
CL  (dL/kg.h) 
AUMC  (IU.h2/dL) 
27176 
@ log transformed value of AUC(0-48) 
483 
0.34 
27 
0.49 
1.79 
4.49 
0.13 
0.01 
15402 
792 - 2285 
6.67 - 7.73 
74 - 181 
1.48 - 3.39 
7.41 - 13.87 
9.43 - 24.35 
0.32 - 0.76 
0.02 - 0.06 
8379 - 67167 
1521 
7.28 
103 
2.06 
10.48 
18.03 
0.57 
0.03 
31270 
467 
0.32 
29 
0.51 
1.60 
3.75 
0.14 
0.01 
14628 
792 - 2285 
6.67 - 7.73 
74 - 181 
1.50 - 3.39 
8.31 - 13.87 
12.77 - 24.35 
0.32 - 0.76 
0.02 - 0.06 
10692 - 67167 
Conclusion 
• 
The  applicant  has  submitted  an  application  for  rAHF-PFM  comprising  pharmacokinetic,  clinical 
efficacy, and safety data required for a completely new product. The primary objective of the pivotal 
study  was  to  demonstrate  that  rAHF-PFM  is  bioequivalent  to  the  currently  marketed  Recombinate. 
Therefore,  the  applicant  has  followed  a  stepwise  approach  to  align  the  clinical  development  and 
manufacturing  strategies  and  constraints  for  rAHF-PFM.  Firstly,  a  bioequivalence  study  was 
conducted with Recombinate and rAHF-PFM pilot in the Part 1 of the pivotal study. Secondly in Part 
3  of  the  pivotal  study  a  bioequivalence study was performed with rAHF-PFM pilot and rAHF-PFM 
commercial.  The  results  based  on  AUC(0-48)  and  adjusted  recovery,  indicate,  on  the  one  hand,  that 
Recombinate  and  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and,  on  the  other  hand,  that  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  rAHF-PFM 
commercial  are  bioequivalent.  This  stepwise  approach  is  acceptable  since  the  quality  assessment  of 
rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  rAHF-PFM  commercial  has  demonstrated  comparability  between  these  two 
products (see part II of this report). 
In the meantime and following the submission of additional clinical data obtained with the commercial 
product (major clinical concern) a sufficient exposure (a sufficient) number of patients was obtained to 
assess the safety and efficacy and no further differences between pilot and commercial product have 
been observed.  
24/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In contradiction with the requirement in the Note for Guidance, that at least 3 lots should be employed 
in  the  pharmacokinetic  trial,  only  one  lot  of  rAHF-PFM  commercial  was  used  both  in  Part  3  of  the 
pivotal study and in Part 1 of the continuation study. A total of 8 lots of rAHF-PFM pilot were used in 
the pivotal study Parts 1, 2 and 3. Data from at least three batches of rAHF-PFM commercial should 
be provided. Another open issue remains in form of pharmacokinetic data at the end of shelf life. 
In conclusion the pharmacokinetic requirements described in the “Note For Guidance On The Clinical 
Investigation  Of  Recombinant  Factor  VIII  and  IX  Products”  CPMP/BPWG/1561/99  were  fulfilled. 
The  given  data  on  pharmacokinetics  for  ADVATE  show  sufficient  comparability  with  other 
authorised recombinant factor-VIII products. There also was shown equivalence of pharmacokinetics 
in humans between ADVATE and its predecessor Recombinate. 
Clinical efficacy  
Haemostatic efficacy of rAHF-PFM was evaluated in Part 2 of the pivotal study 069901, Part 2 of the 
continuation  study  060102  and  in  supportive  study  069902.  Details  on  design,  type  of  rAHF-PFM 
administered and numbers of enrolled patients in these studies are summarised in Table 1. 
Clinical studies conducted with rAHF-PFM 
Study number 
069901 Pivotal  
Design and type of r-AHF-PFM   
Patients were randomised to Part 1 + 2, or to Part 2 + 3. 
Part 1: Randomised crossover pharmacokinetic comparison 
of rAHF-PFM pilot and Recombinate. 
Enrolment 
n=111, 108 
treated. 
N=56, 54 treated.
Part 2: Open-label, non-controlled, prophylactic treatment 
N=107 treated. 
regimen for evaluation of the immunogenicity, 
safety and efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot formulation 
during a period of at least 75 exposure days. 
Part 3: Randomised controlled, double-blind crossover 
pharmacokinetic comparison of rAHF-PFM pilot 
and rAHF-PFM commercial formulations. 
Part 1: Single arm, open-label, controlled evaluation of the 
pharmacokinetics and safety of rAHF-PFM 
commercial after at least 75 exposure days of 
treatment with rAHF-PFM pilot in study 069901. 
N=55, 51 
treated. 
N=19, 13 
evaluable. 
Part 2: Open-label, non-controlled prophylactic or on-
demand treatment regimen for the evaluation of the 
safety, immunogenicity, and haemostatic efficacy of 
rAHF-PFM commercial. 
Multi-centre, prospective, open-label, non-controlled 
study of the safety and efficacy of rAHF-PFM in 
patients with severe or moderately severe 
haemophilia A who require a surgical, dental or 
other invasive procedure. 
All patients were treated with rAHF-PFM pilot. 
N=27, 13 
evaluable for 
efficacy, 27 for 
immunogenicity. 
N=10, 4 from 
study 069901 
and 6 additional 
patients. 
060102 
Continuation  
(only for subjects 
who completed 
treatment of Part 1 
and 2 of study 
069901) 
Ongoing study  
069902 Surgery 
Ongoing study  
060101 Paediatric 
PTPs < 6 years of 
age 
A minimum of 25 patients are planned. 
Part 1: Open-label, non-controlled evaluation of the 
pharmacokinetics and short-term safety of rAHF-
PFM commercial. 
N=14, all 
treated. 
25/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ongoing study 
Part 2: Open-label determination of the immunogenicity, 
haemostatic efficacy and safety of rAHF-PFM 
commercial. At least 50 exposure days according to 
a treatment regimen determined by the site 
investigator. 
No available 
data. 
Main studies (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials)  
A minimum of 50 patients are planned. 
Part  2  of  study  069901  consisted  of  an  open  uncontrolled  prophylactic  treatment  regimen  for  the 
evaluation of immunogenicity, safety and efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot during a period of at least 75 
exposure days in previously treated haemophilia A patients.  
Part 2 of study 060102 consists of an open uncontrolled prophylactic or on demand treatment regimen 
for  evaluation  of  safety,  immunogenicity  and  haemostatic  efficacy  of  rAHF-PFM  commercial  in 
previously treated haemophilia A patients. 
1. 
Description of the study 
These  studies  were  already  described  in  the  clinical  pharmacokinetic  part  of  the  document.  But  in 
addition,  in  Part  2  of  the  pivotal  study  rAHF-PFM pilot  was  administered  at  a  dose  of  25-40  IU/kg 
infused  3-4  times/week.  This  prophylactic  regimen  was  based  on  published  data  on  haemophilia 
prophylaxis. New bleeding episodes were treated exclusively with rAHF-PFM pilot.  
Part 2 of study 060102 (continuation study) was open for all patients who completed the pivotal study, 
who received no other factor VIII products than rAHF-PFM upon completion of the pivotal study and 
developed no inhibitors to factor VIII during this study (Figure 2). All subjects received rAHF-PFM 
commercial  according  to  a  treatment  regimen  (i.e.  standard  prophylaxis  [25-40  IU/kg  infused  3-4 
times/week], modified prophylaxis or on-demand) determined by the site investigator. New bleeding 
episodes are to be treated exclusively with rAHF-PFM commercial. 
2. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
Both  in  the  pivotal  and  in  the  interim  report  of  the  continuation  study  the  analysis  of  haemostatic 
efficacy is based on: 
• 
• 
The  number  of  study  drug  infusions  required  to  achieve  adequate  haemostasis  for  each  new 
bleeding episode; 
The overall  haemostatic response to treatment  of  new bleeding  episodes  with study drug on a 
scale of excellent, good, fair, or none, assessed by the subject (home treatment) or haemophilia 
centre (for hospital based treatment) following treatment of each bleed; 
Additional haemostatic efficacy variables in the pivotal study were: the mean number of new bleeding 
episodes  that  occurred  during  the  prophylactic  regimen,  the  mean  number  of  all  bleeding  episodes, 
including  those  secondary  to  trauma,  per  subject  per  month,  the  mean  weight-adjusted  dose 
administered  for  the  treatment of each  new bleeding  episode and the mean number of new  bleeding 
episodes occurring 0 to 24 hours and 24-48 hours after a prophylactic dose. 
In the final study report of the continuation study additional parameters for determination of efficacy 
will be added such as the rate of new bleeding episodes per month and the number of new bleeding 
episodes occurring 0 to 24 hours and 24-48 hours after a prophylactic dose. 
3. 
Statistical analysis 
The sample size for Part 2 of the pivotal study was based on estimating the 95% confidence interval 
upper boundary of the risk of high responder inhibitor development. Based on the use of the Clopper-
Pearson  confidence  interval  and  assuming  that  no  more  than  one  subject  would  develop  a  high 
26/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
responder inhibitor, the required sample size to insure that the upper boundary of the 95% confidence 
interval for the risk of high responder inhibitor development was no greater than 6.7%, was calculated 
to  be  81  subjects.  The Sponsor  planned to enrol at least 89 subjects.  In actuality, 111 subjects were 
allowed to enrol based on their interest in the study. 
For the continuation study the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data were obtained from on at least 
25 subjects with a minimum of 50 exposure days to rAHF-PFM commercial. 
No further statistical analyses were performed in Parts 2 of the pivotal and continuation studies. 
RESULTS 
4. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
The  disposition  of  study  subjects  in  the  pivotal  study  is  shown  in  Table  7.  A  total  of  103  patients 
completed Part 2, meaning that they continued therapy with rAHF-PFM pilot for at least 75 exposure 
days. 
Total 
111 
 3* 
108 
Table 7: Disposition of study subjects in pivotal study 069901 
Populations 
Number of subjects 
Randomised to Parts 1+2  Randomised to Parts 2+3 
55 
1 
54 
56 
2 
54 
54 
53 
53 
51 
NA 
NA 
51 
5 
Total randomised 
Not treated 
Total randomised and 
treated 
Treated on Part 1 
Completed Part 1 
Treated on Part 2 
Completed Part 2 
Treated on Part 3 
Completed Part 3 
Completed all Parts 
Total discontinued 
Reason for discontinuation 
  AE 
  Consent withdrawn 
  Withdrawn by investigator 
  Lost-to-follow-up 
  Other 
*One withdrew consent, one was erroneously identified as having a baseline factor VIII >2%, one was scheduled to receive 
an immuno-modulating drug (i.e. not meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria). 
# Subject withdrew consent 
@ One withdrew consent, one was non-compliant, two had a history of factor VIII inhibitor > 1 BU 
** Subject was non-compliant. This subject completed Part 2 but did not start Part 3. 
54 
  53# 
107 
    103@ 
    51** 
51 
102 
9 
NA 
NA 
54 
52 
51 
51 
51 
4 
0 
3 
5 
0 
1 
0 
3 
2 
0 
0 
0 
0 
3 
0 
1 
27/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Results 
A  summary  of  demographic  characteristics  and  information  on  treatment  regimens  during  the  6 
months for all randomised patients with severe or moderately severe haemophilia A prior to enrolment 
in  the  pivotal  study  are  presented  in  Tables  8  and  9,  respectively.  The  vast  majority  of  the  patients 
(88%) used recombinant factor VIII products in the 6 months prior to enrolment in the pivotal study. 
Table  8:  Summary  of  demographic  characteristics  for  all  randomised  subjects  in  the  pivotal 
study 
Characteristics 
Age (years) 
     10-18  
     > 18 
Race 
     Caucasian 
     Black 
     Asian 
Weight (kg) 
Height (cm) 
Number of subjects (%) 
Mean ± SD 
Range 
62 (56%) 
49 (44%) 
103 (93%) 
      7 (6%) 
     1  (1%) 
111 
111 
65.8 ± 16.7 
169.3 ± 13.0 
32.2 - 108.0 
135.0 - 191.0 
Table 9: Treatment regimens during the 6 months prior to study enrolment 
Treatment characteristics 
Mode of therapy 
     Prophylaxis exclusively 
     On-demand exclusively 
     Prophylaxis and on-demand 
     Total 
Estimated total number of prophylactic 
infusions for 6 months prior to 
enrolment 
For prophylaxis exclusively: typical 
number of infusions per week 
     ≤ 2 infusions per week 
     3-4 infusions per week 
     > 4 infusions per week 
     Total 
Estimated total number of infusions for 
bleeding episodes within 6 months prior 
to enrolment 
Factor VIII products received during the 
6 months prior to enrolment 
     None 
     Subjects using one product only 
     Subjects using two or more products 
*Data unknown in one subject 
Number of subjects (%)  Mean ± SD 
Range 
60 ± 21 
0-100 
14 ± 15 
0 - 72 
47 (42%) 
30 (27%) 
34 (31%) 
111 (100%) 
80 (72%)* 
4 (9%) 
43 (91%) 
0 (0%) 
47 (42%) 
111 (100%) 
1 (1%) 
65 (59%) 
45 (40%) 
28/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As far as the  compliance to the prophylactic  treatment regimen during Part 2 of the pivotal study is 
concerned, 54 subjects (50%) received doses of study drug outside the range of 25-40 IU/kg for more 
than 20% of doses and 40 subjects (37%) received the investigational medicinal product less than 3 or 
greater than 4 times per week for more than 20% of the weeks on study. The number of patients who 
recived  low  doses  of  product  (those  who  received  doses  <  25  IU/kg  for  more  than  20%  of  the total 
prophylactic doses or infused less than 3 times a week) was calculated to be 37 subjects (35%). 
Of  the  108  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  medication  (any  study  part),  84 
experienced  one  or  more  bleeding  episodes  during  the  study  and  were  included  in  the  analysis  for 
haemostatic efficacy for the treatment of new bleeding episodes. 
A total of 107 patients received at least one infusion of the investigational medicinal product during 
Part 2. Of these, 75 experienced one or more bleeding episodes during the first 75 exposure days and 
were included in the analysis of bleeding episodes by site and type, and in the frequency of bleeding 0 
to 24 or 24 to 48 hours after a prophylactic infusion. The bleed rate analysis data set included all 107 
subjects treated during Part 2. 
A  total  of  526  new  bleeding  episodes  occurred  over  the  course  of  the  pivotal  study  (all  parts). 
Seventeen  bleeding  episodes  occurred  in  Part  1.  Fifteen  bleeding  episodes  were  treated  with 
Recombinate and two episodes were treated inadvertently with rAHF-PFM pilot. During Part 2, 507 
bleeding  episodes  occurred.  One  was  treated  inadvertently  with  Recombinate;  the  other  506  were 
treated with rAHF-PFM pilot. The two bleeding episodes that occurred during Part 3 were both treated 
with  rAHF-PFM.  Therefore,  510  bleeding  episodes  were  treated  with  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  16  were 
treated with Recombinate. 
• 
Efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot on haemostasis 
Of these 510 bleeding episodes, 162 (31.8%) were spontaneous and 228 were trauma-related (44.7%). 
For  the  remaining  120  (24%)  bleeding  episodes  the  subject  was  unable  to  determine  the  aetiology. 
Regardless  of  the  aetiology  of  the  bleeding  episodes,  the  majority  of  the  bleeding  sites  were  joints 
(273 out of 530 bleeding sites (52%)) and muscles and other soft tissues (173 out of 530 bleeding sites 
(33%)). 
The overall haemostatic efficacy for rAHF-PFM pilot and the overall number of infusions required for 
the treatment of new bleeding episodes are shown in the Tables 10 and 11, respectively. 
Table  10:  Overall  haemostatic  efficacy  for  rAHF-PFM  pilot  in  the  treatment  of  new  bleeding 
episodes (study 069901) 
Excellent/good 
Fair 
None 
Unknown 
Total 
N (%) 
439 (86) 
61 (12) 
1 (0) 
9 (2) 
510 (100) 
Table  11:  Overall  number  of  infusions  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot  required  for  treatment  of  new 
bleeding episodes (study 069901) 
Number of infusions 
1 
2 
3 
≥ 4 
Total 
N (%) 
411 (81) 
62 (12) 
15 (3) 
22 (4) 
510 (100) 
29/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy according to outcome rating and number of study drug infusions was analysed for each type 
of  bleeding  (spontaneous,  trauma-related,  cause  unknown)  and  these  data  reflected  the  overall 
outcome data. Ninety-five percent of all bleeding episodes that were rated excellent/good required 1 or 
2  infusions  of  the  investigational  medicinal  product.  More  than  2  infusions  of  rAHF-PFM  were 
required in 5% of the 162 spontaneous episodes, 10% of the 228 trauma-related episodes, and 5% of 
the 120 episodes with unknown origin.  
Overall outcome of bleeding in joints was regarded as excellent/good in 223/273 cases (82%), fair in 
44  cases  (16%),  none  in  one  case  and  unknown  in  5  cases  (2%).  Overall  outcome  of  bleeding  in 
muscles and other soft tissues was regarded as excellent/good in 157/173 cases (91%), fair in 15 cases 
(9%) and unknown in 1cases. 
Mean weight-adjusted doses of rAHF-PFM pilot required to treat a new bleeding episode (i.e. the sum 
of all infusions for a particular episode) are summarised in Table 12. 
Table 12: Total weight-adjusted dose (IU/kg) of rAHF-PFM pilot administered for the treatment 
of new bleeding episodes 
Aetiology 
Spontaneous 
Secondary to trauma 
Unknown 
All 
• 
Ancillary analyses 
Summary statistic 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
Value 
162 
44.67 
27.45 
9.37 - 176.6 
228 
61.69 
94.30 
16.23 - 831.6 
120 
44.14 
30.61 
16.55 - 230.0 
510 
52.15 
67.06 
9.37 - 831.6 
The  number  of  new  bleeding  episodes,  the  rate  of  bleeding  episodes  per  subject  per  month,  and the 
number of bleeding episodes that occurred within 24 or 24 to 48 hours of a prophylactic infusion of 
rAHF-PFM  pilot  were  evaluated  during  the  initial  75  exposure  days  when  subjects  received  the 
protocol-prescribed prophylactic regimen.  
A total of  274 bleedings  occurred in 75 subjects  during  the  initial 75 exposure days of prophylactic 
regimen  in  Part  2  (74  spontaneous  bleeding  episodes  (27%)  in  38  subjects,  126  trauma-related 
bleeding episodes (46%) in 48 subjects, and 74 episodes of unknown origin (27%) in 35 subjects). The 
majority of the new bleeding sites were joints. 
The rate of new bleeding episodes per subject per month (of study observation), according to subject 
age group and adherence to the prophylactic regimen for the 274 bleeding episodes, that occurred 
during the initial 75 exposure days in Part 2, is shown in Table 13.
30/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13: Rate of new bleeding episodes by age and prescribed dosing for rAHF-PFM pilot 
All 
Age 
Aetiology 
Dose below protocol 
Dose per- or greater  
than protocol regimen* 
regimen# 
N  Mean  Min  Max  N  Mean Min Max  N  Mean Min  Max
0.44  0.00  2.94 
39 
> 18 
0.83  0.15  2.94  55 
16 
0.81  0.00  3.88  52 
10-18  31 
0.60  0.00  3.88 
21 
0.82  0.00  3.88  107  0.52  0.00  3.88 
70 
All 
37 
*Good compliance:  ≥ 25-40 IU/kg per infusion for at least 80% of infusions and ≥ 3-4 infusions per week for at least 80% of 
the weeks on study in study Part 2. 
#Less compliance:  < 25 IU/kg per infusion for more than 20% of infusions or < 3 infusions per week for more than 20% of 
the weeks on study in study Part 2. 
0.28  0.00 1.88 
0.46  0.14 2.28 
0.36  0.00 2.28 
All 
The overall rate of new bleeding episodes was 0.52 episodes/subject/month (range 0 - 3.88). The mean 
rate of all new bleeding episodes was higher (0.60) for the subjects aged between 10 and 18 years old 
than for subjects older than 18 years old (0.44) (Table 13). For trauma-related bleeding episodes, the 
mean rate was also higher for the subjects aged between 10 and 18 years old (0.53, range 0.13 - 2.11) 
than  for  subjects  older  than  18  years  of  age  (0.34,  range  0.13  -  1.10).  In  contrast,  for  spontaneous 
bleeding  episodes  the  mean  rate  was  higher for  subjects > 18 years of age (0.48, range 0.09 - 1.96) 
than for subjects 10 to 18 years of age (0.36, range 0.13 - 2.17). 
The  mean  rate  of  all  new bleeding  episodes was more than two-fold higher  for the 37  subjects who 
were  less  compliant  to  the  prophylactic  regimen  (0.82)  than  for  the  70  subjects who were treated at 
doses  and  frequencies  at  or  above  those  specified  in  the  protocol  (0.36)  (Table  13).  The  effect  of 
adherence to the prophylactic regimen appeared to be generally consistent across age groups and all 
bleeding aetiologies but was most prominent in the subset of bleeding episodes secondary to trauma (a 
bleeding rate of 0.32, range 0.13 - 2.11, in subjects with good compliance versus a rate of 0.67, range 
0.13 - 1.94 in subjects with less compliance).  
Of the 274 bleeding episodes that occurred during the initial 75 exposure days in Part 2, 172 (63%) 
occurred  within  48  hours  of  a  prophylactic  dose  (72  bleeding  episodes  within  24  hours  and  100 
bleeding  episodes  between  24  and  48  hours).  Trauma-related  bleeding  episodes  were  more  likely  to 
occur 24 to 48 hours (44%) than 0 to 24 hours (28%) after a prophylactic dose. Spontaneous bleeding 
episodes were equally likely to occur 0 to 24 hours (20%) and 24 to 48 hours after a prophylactic dose 
(24%). Thus the majority of spontaneous bleeding episodes (56%) occurred more than 48 hours after 
the administration of the study drug.  
Sixteen  bleeding  episodes  in  the  pivotal  study  were  treated  with  Recombinate  (one  spontaneous,  10 
trauma-related  and  5  of  unknown  aetiology).  Fourteen  of  the  16  bleeding  episodes  had  an  efficacy 
rating  of  excellent/good,  one  of  fair,  and  in  one  episode  the  rating  was  unknown.  Fourteen  of  the 
episodes  required  treatment  with  one  infusion,  one  required  two  infusions,  and  one  required  3 
infusions.  The  mean  ±  SD  total  weight-adjusted  dose  of  Recombinate  for  all  bleeding  episodes  was 
32.15 ± 10.98 IU/kg (range 14.69 to 51.5). 
• 
Interim results of the continuation study 060102 
A  total  of  33  subjects  were analysed in this  interim  report of study  060102 (Part 1 and  2). They all 
received at least one dose of study drug (any study part) and had a follow-up assessment of safety.   
Of the 33 subjects 19 (58%) were 10 to 18 years of age and 14 (42%) were > 18 years of age. The 
mean ± SD  weight was  66.9 ± 15.2 kg (range 40.8 to 105.0 kg) and the mean ± SD height 169.3 ± 
10.1 cm (range 150.0 to 185.0 cm). Thirty-two subjects were Caucasian. 
In Part 2 data were available for 27 subjects. Twenty-three (85.2%) of these patients were treated with 
a  continuation  of  the  standard  prophylactic  regimen  used  in  the  pivotal  study  and  4  (14.8%)  were 
treated with an investigator-modified prophylactic regimen. None of the patients were treated with an 
31/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on-demand regimen. The median number of exposure days for these 27 subjects was 55 days (range 
50 to 66 days) and the median total time on study was 124 days (range 111 to 140 days). 
Fourteen  out  of  27  subjects  did not report any bleeding episode during  this interim period. Thirteen 
out of these 27 patients received at least one dose of study product for the treatment of a new bleeding 
episode and were included in the analysis for haemostatic efficacy for the treatment of new bleeding 
episodes. 
A total of 51 new bleeding episodes were reported for these 13 subjects. Forty-nine bleeding episodes 
occurred in 12 subjects while on standard treatment (12 (24%) spontaneous, 27 (55%) trauma-related, 
and 10 (20%) of unknown origin). Two spontaneous bleeding episodes occurred in one subject while 
on the investigator-modified prophylactic regimen. 
The  overall  haemostatic  efficacy  for  rAHF-PFM  commercial  and  the  overall  number  of  infusions 
required for the treatment of new bleeding episodes are shown in the Tables 14 and 15, respectively. 
Table  14:  Overall  haemostatic  efficacy  for  rAHF-PFM  commercial  in  the  treatment  of  new 
bleeding episodes (study 060102) 
Excellent/good 
Fair 
None 
Unknown 
Total 
N (%) 
32 (63) 
17 (33) 
1 (2) 
1 (2) 
51 (100) 
The new bleeding episode that was rated by the patient as having no response, occurred in the right 
elbow. The patient infused himself with one dose of study drug for the treatment of this new bleeding 
episode. He used no other factor VIII replacement products but did use naproxen for three days. No 
factor VIII inhibitors were detected at two subsequent visits one and 4 months later. 
Table 15: Overall number of infusions of rAHF-PFM commercial required for treatment of new 
bleeding episodes (study 060102) 
Number of infusions 
1 
2 
3 
≥ 4 
Total 
N (%) 
44 (86) 
3 (6) 
1 (2) 
3 (6) 
51 (100) 
Clinical studies in special populations 
At the time of this submission no data on haemostatic efficacy in children under the age of 6 years are 
available. 
Supportive study(ies) 
Study 069902 is described in the pharmacokinetic part of this document.  
Results  from  ten  patients,  enrolled  at  five  sites  between  February  2001  and  September  2001,  are 
presented in an interim analysis. One subject was withdrawn from the study but was included in the 
analysis of efficacy and safety. 
All patients were treated with rAHF-PFM pilot (5 lots in total). Administration of rAHF-PFM was at 
the  discretion  of  the  investigator.  All  patients  received  a  pre-operative  loading  dose  sufficient  to 
32/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increase  the  patients’  factor  VIII  level  between  60  and  100%  (for  dental  procedures)  or  between  80 
and  120%  (for  the  other  procedures).  In  the  intra-operative  and  post-operative  period  patients  were 
treated  with  bolus  or  continuous  infusion  regimens  or  both.  Finally,  home  replacement  therapy  was 
prescribed  by  the  investigator  for  up  to  6  weeks  from  the  surgery  date  for  major  orthopaedic 
procedures and up to 2 weeks from the surgery date for all other procedures. The total period of study 
participation per subject varied  from 2 days to 6 weeks, depending on the type of surgical procedure. 
Six patients underwent a major surgical procedure. Five of the six had orthopaedic surgery (total hip 
replacement,  knee  joint  replacement,  knee  arthrodesis,  left  elbow  synovectomy,  and  right  knee 
arthroscopy plus chondroplasty plus synovectomy) and the sixth patient underwent a transposition of 
the  left  ulnar  nerve.  Four  patients  underwent  a  minor  surgical  procedure  (dental  extraction,  wisdom 
teeth extraction, multiple teeth extraction and insertion of a Mediport). 
The mean ± SD age of the 10 patients was 31.2 years ± 17.7 (range 14 to 64). The mean ± SD weight 
was 65.1 kg ± 12.6 (range 42.5 to 87) and the mean ± SD height 169.5 ± 6.1 cm (range 160 to 177). 
Nine out of ten patients were Caucasian. 
For  all  10  subjects,  intra-  and  post-operative  assessments  were  reported  as  excellent/good  by  the 
surgeon and the investigator, respectively. One patient had a post-operative drain. Control of bleeding 
from  this  drain  was  assessed  as  excellent/good.  None  of  the  subjects  developed  a  post-operative 
haematoma. Only one subject, who underwent a left elbow synovectomy, experienced a new bleeding 
in this elbow on post-operative day 28. This bleeding episode was treated with 3 daily infusions, the 
haemostatic efficacy of which was rated as excellent. 
Actual  blood  loss  was  within  the predicted  average  and  maximal range of blood  loss in 9  out of 10 
patients.  For  the  remaining  patient,  who  underwent  a  total  hip  joint  replacement,  actual  blood  loss 
(2900  ml)  was  greater  than  the  predicted  average  (1000  ml)  and  maximal  blood  loss  (2000  ml). 
Although  the  intra-operative  efficacy  should  have  been  rated  as  fair,  according  to  the  Sponsor’s 
criteria, the surgeon rated the haemostatic outcome as good. 
Seven patients received concomitant treatment with antifibrinolytics. One subject used Immunate AHF 
two  days  prior  to  surgery.  Two  subjects  received  blood  or  related  products  (one  patients  received 
550 ml of fresh frozen plasma, 1045 ml of Sagman (solution which consists of saline, adenine, glucose 
and  mannitol  (SAGMAN)  which  is  added  to  the  red  blood  cells)  and  a  blood  transfusion,  the  other 
patient received 500 ml of albumin). 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In detail, data on the haemostatic efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot are mainly derived from Part 2 of the 
pivotal study. The results from this study give reassurance of the efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot, as the 
haemostatic efficacy was rated ‘excellent/good’ in 86% of the 510 new bleeding episodes. Moreover, 
81% of these bleeding episodes required only a single infusion of rAHF-PFM pilot. The effects of age 
and  adherence  to  the  prophylactic  regimen  on  the  rate  of  bleeding  episodes  per  subject  per  month 
show no unexpected results. 
The reported haemostatic efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot/commercial in the surgical study 069902 also 
indicate that rAHF-PFM is effective. Taking into account that the comparability of rAHF-PFM pilot 
and rAHF-PFM commercial was established on a quality viewpoint and considering the results of the 
bioequivalence  study,  that  demonstrated  the  bioequivalence  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  rAHF-PFM 
commercial,  it  was  expected  that  the  haemostatic  efficacy  of  rAHF-PFM  commercial  would  be 
comparable to the efficacy of rAHF-PFM pilot.  
A  sufficient  number  of  patients  within  the  continuation  study  could  be  evaluated  regarding  efficacy 
with good/excellent results and evidence for clinical efficacy was shown.  
However, the outcome of efficacy during the main and supportive studies was based on an insufficient 
number  of  clinical  endpoints  (which  have  been  partly  implemented  to  the  studies  by  protocol 
33/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amendments).  As  far  as  EC  requirements  are  concerned  the  subjective  evaluation  of  the  response  to 
treatment  i.e.  number,  site,  type  of  bleeding  episodes  are  not  the  only  parameters  required  to  assess 
haemostatic efficacy. This efficacy should be assessed as well by calculating the CONSUMPTION of 
factor VIII, expressed as number of infusions and IU/Kg per month and per year, as well as IU/Kg per 
event (prophylaxis, on-demand and surgery).  
Meanwhile these data were obtained with the pilot product but not yet for the commercial product and 
should be also presented. 
Clinical safety 
The safety of rAHF-PFM was addressed in all 4 submitted clinical studies (Table 1) 1.  
The risk of the development of factor VIII inhibitors was assessed in the pivotal study, study 060102 
and  study  069902.  Immunogenicity  data  were  not  included  in  the  interim  report  of  the  paediatric 
study. 
The  risk  of  antibody  development  to  heterologous  proteins  (CHO  protein,  murine  IgG,  human 
recombinant VWF) was only assessed in the pivotal study. 
Patient exposure 
A  summary  of  study  drug  exposure  data  for  rAHF-PFM  pilot  in  the  pivotal  study  and  rAHF-PFM 
commercial in the continuation study is presented in Table 16. 
The  safety  population  in  study  069901  consisted  of  108  patients.  Baseline  characteristics  of  these 
patients are summarised in the Tables 8 and 9 of this report. The median number of exposure days to 
rAHF-PFM  pilot  in  study  069901  was  117  (range  17  to  200)  (Table  16).  Additionally,  51  patients 
received one dose rAHF-PFM commercial in Part 3 of study 069901. The median dose of r AHF-PFM 
commercial  was  50  IU/kg  (range  47  to  55).  The  safety  population  in  the  interim  analysis  of  study 
060102  consisted  of  33  patients.  The  safety  population  of  study  069902  consisted  of  10  patients. 
Finally, all 14 patients in Part 1 of study 060101 were exposed to one dose of rAHF-PFM commercial.  
1  In  this  report,  the  terms  adverse  drug  reactions  and  adverse  events  are  used  according  to  the  current  EU  legislation.  An 
adverse drug reaction is defined by a response to a medicinal product which is noxious and unintended and which occurs at 
doses  normally  used  in  man  for  the  prophylaxis,  diagnosis  or  therapy  of  disease  or  for  the  restoration,  correction  or 
modification of physiological function. A reaction, contrary to an event, is characterised by the fact that a causal relationship 
between the drug and the occurrence is suspected. An adverse event does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the 
treatment. Finally, the term “severe” is not synonymous with serious. Severe is used to describe the intensity (severity) of a 
specific event (as in mild, moderate or severe). 
A definition of the terms used to express the result of the causality assessment (certain, probable/likely, possible, unlikely, 
conditional/unclassified,  unassessible/unclassifiable)  may  be  found  on  the  WHO  collaborating  centre  (http://www.who-
umc.org/). 
Frequencies  are  expressed  according  to  the  EU  guideline  on  summary  of  product  characteristics  (Report  from  CIOMS 
Working  Group  III,  Geneva  1995  terminology)  Very  common  (>1/10)  Common  (>1/100,  <1/10)  Uncommon  (>1/1,000, 
<1/100) Rare (>1/10,000, <1/1,000) Very rare (<1/10,000), including isolated reports. 
34/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
Table 16: Summary of study drug exposure in the pivotal and the continuation study 
Parameter 
Exposure days: median (range) 
Total number of infusions 
     Pharmacokinetics# 
     New bleeding episodes 
     Prophylaxis 
Total number of patients infused 
     Pharmacokinetics# 
     New bleeds 
     Prophylaxis 
Number of infusions per patient 
     Median (range) 
Dose per infusion (IU/kg) 
     Prophylaxis: median (range) 
     Treatment new bleed: median (range) 
Dose administered per month 
(IU/kg/mth) 
     Prophylaxis: median (range) 
     Treatment new bleed: median (range) 
rAHF-PFM pilot  
pivotal study  
117 (17 - 200) 
rAHF-PFM commercial 
continuation study 
55 (50 - 66)* 
172 
727 
11647 
107 
83 
107 
14 
72 
1442 
14 
13 
27 
118 (18 - 200) 
55 (50 - 71)* 
30.7 (9.4 - 110.7) 
32.9 (8.7 - 225.8) 
30.7 (17.2 - 53.9) 
34.5 (20.3 - 72.7) 
384.8 (157.9 - 20051.4) 
19.5 (0.9 - 3439.2) 
406.9 (262.1 - 532.7) 
31.1 (7.65 - 225.6) 
Dose administered per year (IU/kg/year) 
     Prophylaxis: median (range) 
     Treatment new bleed: median (range) 
Cumulative dose (IU/kg): median 
(range) 
Number of lots (total) 
* The data in the summary statistics are calculated only for the 27 patients who participated in Part 2 of the continuation 
study. Six patients only participated in Part 1; their data are not included. 
#Pharmacokinetics in the pivotal study includes the Part 2 recovery studies. 
4620 (1896.4 - 240748.4) 
233.8 (10.4 - 41292.7) 
3,735.6 (771.0 - 9194.9) 
4885 (3147 - 6395) 
372.8 (91.9 - 2709) 
1678 (49 - 2833) 
8 
5 
Adverse drug reactions/adverse events 
Pivotal study 069901 
Of  the  108  patients  who  received  at  least  one  study  drug  infusion  in  the  pivotal  study,  101  patients 
reported a total of 877 adverse events, 867 of which were non-serious and 10 were serious.  
Among  the  867  non-serious  events,  506  (58%) occurring in 88 patients were rated  mild, 326 (38%) 
occurring in 67 patients were rated moderate, 22 (3%) occurring in 13 patients were rated severe, and 
13 (2%) occurring in 2 subjects were not rated with respect to severity by the subject or investigator. 
The  most  common  non-serious  observed  adverse  events  were  injuries  (n=252),  nervous  system 
disorders  (n=141),  musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders  (n=109),  infections  and 
infestations (n=86), and general disorders and administration site conditions (n=69). 
A  summary  of  all  adverse  experiences  according  to  their  serious/non-serious  classification,  severity 
and causal relationship with the administration of the investigational medicinal product is provided in 
Table 17.  
Table 17: Table detailing the adverse drug reactions/events observed in study 069901 
35/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of subjects (%)* 
10 
867 
6 (6) 
101 (94) 
10 
0 
0 
6 (6) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
Number of reports 
506 
500 
6 
0 
Adverse reactions/events 
Serious 
          Unrelated 
          Possibly related 
          Probably related 
Non-serious 
     Mild 
          Unrelated 
          Possibly related 
          Probably related 
     Moderate 
          Unrelated 
          Possibly related 
          Probably related 
     Severe   
          Unrelated 
          Possibly related 
          Probably related 
     Unknown 
          Unrelated 
          Possibly related 
          Probably related 
*Number of subjects in subgroup do not total to 101 since a subject could have more than one AE. 
Percent relative to 108. Percentages are not additive since an individual subject could have AEs in more than one category. 
88 (81) 
88 (81) 
4 (0) 
0 (0) 
12 (11) 
1 (1) 
0 (0) 
66 (61) 
3 (3) 
2  (2) 
2 (2) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
314 
5 
7 
20 
2 
0 
13 
0 
0 
13 (12) 
67 (62) 
2 (2) 
326 
13 
22 
The adverse  reactions/events that occurred in at least 5% of study subjects are summarised in Table 
18.  The  vast  majority  of  these  events  appear  to  be  related  to  trauma,  inter-current  mild  respiratory 
disease,  or  well-described  complications  of  haemophilia.  Of  the  119  headaches,  49  occurred  on  the 
same  day  as  an  infusion  of  rAHF-PFM  pilot:  17  occurred  after  an  infusion,  7  occurred  before  an 
infusion, and 25 had unknown onset times. Five of the 17 headaches that occurred after an infusion, 
were associated with other signs and symptoms suggestive of an infectious aetiology. Only 2 episodes 
of headache in 2 subjects were considered by the investigator to be related to the administration of the 
product. 
Table 18: Summary of adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5% of the patients (study 069901) 
System organ class 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Nervous system disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Infections and infestations 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Preferred term 
Limb injury NOS 
Headache NOS 
Arthralgia 
Accident NOS 
Cough 
Nasopharyngitis 
Fall 
Nr. of reports  Nr of subjects (%) 
136 
119 
50 
41 
26 
23 
21 
42 (39) 
40 (37) 
22 (20) 
20 (19) 
16 (15) 
16 (15) 
16 (15) 
36/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Infections and infestations 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Infections and infestations 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Nervous system disorder 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorder 
nos: not otherwise specified 
Pyrexia 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection NOS 
Nasal congestion 
Pain in limb 
Vomiting NOS 
Sinusitis NOS 
Nausea 
Joint sprain 
Sports injury 
Back pain 
Joint swelling 
Dizziness (excl vertigo) 
Contusion 
21 
14 
15 
13 
15 
6 
10 
8 
6 
23 
7 
9 
7 
8 
15 (14) 
12 (11) 
12 (11) 
10 (9) 
9 (8) 
6 (6) 
7 (6) 
7 (6) 
6 (6) 
6 (6) 
6 (6) 
7 (6) 
7 (6) 
6 (6) 
Twenty  of  the  867  non-serious  reactions  were  considered  to  be  related  to  the  administration  of  the 
product: 19 (12 possibly related and 7 probably related) of the 20 non-serious reactions occurred in 7 
patients who were treated with rAHF-PFM pilot and one possibly related reaction occurred in a patient 
receiving Recombinate. These 19 related reactions included taste perversion (n=3), headaches (n=2), 
fever (n=1), diarrhoea (n=1), dizziness (n=3), hot flashes (n=2), pain in upper abdomen (n=1), pain in 
lower chest (n=1), shortness of breath (n=1), sweating (n=1), nausea (n=1), rigors (n=1), and pruritus 
(n=1). 
Five of these reactions (pain in upper abdomen, pain in lower chest, shortness of breath, sweating and 
nausea) all occurred on the same day, at the same time and in the same subject. 
Twelve  of  the  19  reactions  were  moderate  in  severity,  5  were  mild  and  two  were  severe.  The  two 
severe reactions (headache and fever) occurred in one subject. The patient was treated with 1500 mg 
of acetaminophen and the symptoms resolved in 2 days.  
Vital signs were examined in Part 1 and Part 3, before infusion of the study drug, immediately post-
infusion  and 30  minutes  post- infusion. The mean percent change from pre-infusion values to either 
the immediately or 30 minutes post-infusion time point was minimal for all the parameters evaluated 
following the single infusions of the two investigational medicinal products. 
Continuation study 060102 
Of the 33 patients who received at least one study drug infusion in the continuation study, 25 patients 
reported a total of 89 adverse drug reactions/adverse events, none of which were serious. Thirteen out 
of 89 reactions/events began during the pivotal study prior to enrolment in the continuation study.  
Among the 89 non-serious adverse drug reactions/events, 64 (72%) occurring in 19 patients were rated 
mild, 23 (26%) occurring in 14 patients were rated moderate, and 2 (2%) occurring in one patient were 
severe. None of the events were judged by the investigator to be related to the infusion of rAHF-PFM 
commercial.  
37/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: Summary of adverse reactions/events occurring in at least 5% of study subjects (study 
060102) 
System organ class 
Preferred term 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Infections and infestations 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Nervous system disorders  
Psychiatric disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
nos: not otherwise specified 
Surgery study 069902 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Pyrexia 
Lower respiratory tract 
infection NOS 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection NOS 
Limb injury NOS 
Mouth injury 
Sports injury 
Arthralgia 
Headache NOS 
Depression NOS 
Insomnia 
Cough 
Nr. of 
reports 
5 
4 
2 
3 
23 
2 
5 
3 
4 
2 
2 
4 
Nr of subjects (%) 
5 (15) 
3 (9) 
2 (6) 
3 (9) 
8 (24) 
2 (6) 
4 (12) 
2 (6) 
4 (12) 
2 (6) 
2 (6) 
3 (9) 
In  study  069902,  a  total  of  4  adverse  events  were  reported  in  3  of  the  10  patients  included  in  the 
interim report. All 4 adverse events (post-operative anaemia, hypoproteinemia, oral pain after dental 
extraction and arthralgia) were mild and assessed as unrelated to infusion of rAHF-PFM. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
No patients died during any of the clinical studies. 
Serious  reactions/events  were  only  reported  in  study  069901.  All  ten  serious  cases  occurred  during 
Part 2 of the study and were classified as serious since the patients were hospitalised.  
Four out of 10 serious events occurred in the same subject in association with a single hospitalisation. 
These four events can be considered as components of a single adverse experience, leading to a total 
of  7  serious  adverse  events  in  6  patients:  atrial  fibrillation;  injuries  to  left  elbow  and  abdomen 
resulting from a bicycle accident and blood in the urine resulting from the same bicycle accident; right 
upper  extremity  haemorrhage  resulting  from  an  assault;  port-a-cath  infection;  elective  urethral 
dilatation to correct an urethral stricture; head trauma resulting from a fall.  
None  of  the  serious  events  was  considered  to  be  possibly  or  probably  related  to  the  infusion  of  the 
investigational medicinal product.  
Laboratory findings 
During  all  parts  of  study  069901  changes  in  haematological  and  clinical  chemistry  parameters  were 
evaluated  to  determine  the  toxicity  of  the  investigational  products  rAHF-PFM  pilot  and  rAHF-PFM 
commercial. The results from the analysis of these parameters did not reveal evidence of any toxicity 
for any of the product. The investigator judged most abnormal laboratory values to be related to the 
patient’s underlying disease or pre-existing medical conditions. 
38/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For study 069902 haematological and clinical chemistry parameters were assessed at screening and at 
study termination. None of the patients had clinically significant abnormal haematological parameters 
at these time-points. Abnormalities in clinical chemistry parameters were considered to be related to 
the  patient’s  underlying  medical  condition.  Transiently  elevated  D-dimer  levels  were  observed  in 
3 patients, who underwent major orthopaedic surgery. In all 3 subjects the prothrombin time remained 
within  the  normal  range  and  the  fibrinogen  concentration  was  either  normal  or  elevated,  suggesting 
that disseminated intravascular coagulation was not present. 
Immunological events 
In the pivotal study blood samples for factor VIII inhibitor testing were to be drawn at screening, prior 
to the pharmacokinetic infusions (Parts 1 and 3), at interval study visits (every 15 ± 2 exposure days), 
and at study termination. According to the study procedure, every effort was made to draw blood for 
the  factor  VIII  inhibitor  determination  at  least  48  hours  after  the  subject’s  last  infusion.  Forty-one 
patients (38%) had blood draws within 48 hours of a prophylactic dose. 
All factor VIII inhibitor tests were performed using the Bethesda method both at the local haemostasis 
laboratory  of  the  investigative  site  and  in  the  study’s  central  laboratory.  If  a  factor  VIII  inhibitor 
(≤ 1 Bethesda Units or BU) was detected during the course of the study, the presence of an inhibitor 
was to be confirmed by performance of the Nijmegen modification of the Bethesda assay in the central 
laboratory. If a factor VIII inhibitor (Bethesda titre >1 BU and <5 BU or >5 BU) was detected during 
the course of the study, the presence of an inhibitor was to be confirmed in the central laboratory with 
a new blood sample obtained at least 48 hours after the last dose of rAHF-PFM. 
No subject developed a high titre inhibitor in study 069901. One patient developed a low titre inhibitor 
to  factor  VIII  during  the  study.  The  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  risk  of  developing  a  high  titre 
inhibitor to rAHF-PFM pilot was 0 to 2.78% (‘rule of three’). The 95% confidence interval for the risk 
of developing a low titre inhibitor was [0.02, 5.19]. 
The  patient  who  developed  a  low  titre  inhibitor  was  a  55  year-old  male  with  severe  haemophilia  A 
who was randomised to Part 2 and Part 3 of the study. During the 6 months prior to study enrolment 
the patient had been treated exclusively on-demand (15 infusions for new bleeding episodes). At the 
time of enrolment his baseline factor VIII inhibitor assay results were negative both in the local and in 
the  central  laboratory.  Results  from  the  recovery  study  at  the  beginning  of  Part  2  (June  11,  2001) 
showed that factor VIII levels were 122%, 114%, and 100% of normal at the 30-minute, 1-hour, and 
3-hour time points, respectively, after infusion of 51.6 IU/kg of rAHF-PFM pilot. At the interval study 
visit  for  15  exposure  days  (July  25,  2001)  the  factor  VIII  inhibitor  test  result  was  negative  in  the 
central laboratory (not tested in the local laboratory). The patient was subsequently withdrawn from 
the  study.  At  that  time  he  had  completed  26  exposure  days,  including  one  for  the  treatment  of  a 
spontaneous  bleeding  episode.  There  was  no  clinical  evidence  of  inhibitor  development  as  assessed 
from the interval history taken from the patient. The inhibitor assay result from the 30 day exposure 
visit was negative in the local laboratory, but showed titres of 2 BU by the Bethesda assay and 2.4 BU 
by the Nijmegen assay, both performed at the central laboratory.  
After termination from the study the patient returned to the study site November 13, 2001 for further 
evaluation.  He  reported  to  have  had  a  severe  ankle  bleeding  since  his  visit  in  September  that  was 
successfully treated with 2 infusions of Recombinate. A new sample was sent to both the local and the 
central laboratory for inhibitor testing and both results were negative. In vivo recoveries of factor VIII 
at 1 and 3 hours after infusion of 50 IU/kg Recombinate were 140% and 120%, respectively. A full 
evaluation for the presence of a circulating anti-coagulant antibody was inconclusive. 
In study 060102 blood samples for factor VIII inhibitor testing are to be drawn at screening, at interval 
study visits during Part 2 (first visit after 15 ± 2 exposure days, subsequent visit three months later), 
and at study termination. All factor VIII inhibitor tests are to be performed using the Bethesda method 
both at the local haemostasis laboratory and in the study’s central laboratory. If a factor VIII inhibitor 
is  detected  during  the  course  of  the  study,  the  presence  of  the  inhibitor  is  to  be  confirmed  by 
performance  of  the  Nijmegen  assay  in  the  central  laboratory.  If  the  Nijmegen  assay  detects  an 
39/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inhibitor, the assay will be confirmed in the central laboratory with a new blood sample obtained at 
least 48 hours after the last dose of rAHF-PFM. 
None of the 27 evaluable patients had developed a detectable inhibitor of any kind at the time of the 
interim analysis.  
In study 069902, factor VIII inhibitor testing is to be performed at screening and at study termination. 
At  any  time  during  the  study,  inhibitor  testing  should  be  performed if a patient does not respond  to 
rAHF-PFM therapy or has excessive unexplained bleeding episodes. 
None of the subjects had any factor VIII inhibitors at study screening and at study termination. 
ELISA for detection of antibodies to CHO protein, murine IgG and recombinant human VWF were to 
be performed at screening and at each interval study visit in Part 2 of study 069901. The ELISA tests 
utilised for measurement of antibodies to CHO and murine IgG were modified from those utilised in 
the clinical development plan for Recombinate. The applicant modified the assays to allow for actual 
titration of antibody in test samples. Results from these assays showed that all patients had detectable 
anti-CHO and anti-murine IgG in all serum samples tested, including baseline samples. This precluded 
the use of the originally planned classification scheme (‘no antibody response, pre-existing antibody 
response, new onset or anamnestic antibody response’), which was also utilised to stratify patients in 
the Recombinate trials. 
As an alternate approach the results of the assays were examined for a trend over time using a linear 
regression.  The  regression  model  of  antibody  level  on  time-on-study  was  estimated for each subject 
and a hypothesis of zero slope tested using a t-statistic. Additionally, graphs of antibody levels with 
nominal exposure days were generated for all subjects having more than one data point. For patients 
with  evidence  of  an  upward  trend  in  heterologous  anti-CHO  or  anti-murine  antibody  levels,  the 
serologic  findings  were  interpreted  in  relationship  to  the  occurrence  and  type  of  adverse 
reactions/events reported. 
A  total  of  108  patients  had  serum  samples  tested  for  anti-CHO  protein.  For  two  out  of  108  patients 
only  baseline  samples  were  submitted.  Therefore  results  from  one  or  more  treatment  samples  are 
available  for  106  patients  who  were  followed  on  study  over  a  period  of  17  to  200 rAHF-PFM pilot 
exposure days. 
Levels of anti-CHO protein in baseline samples (n=102) varied over a range of 21 to 417 µg/mL. A 
graphical analysis of longitudinal anti-CHO protein levels for each patient did not demonstrate clear 
evidence  of  an  upward  trend  in  antibody  levels  as  a  function  of  increasing  exposure  to  rAHF-PFM. 
For 74 (70%) of the patients the level of anti-CHO protein antibody in the last serum sample was the 
same or lower than that observed in the baseline sample. A significant upward trend was observed in 
only one patient, whose anti-CHO concentration increased from 83 µg/mL at baseline to 118 µg/mL at 
75  exposure  days  (slope:0.18;  p=0.004).  This  patient  experienced  13  adverse  events,  5  of  which 
concerned an orthopaedic problem and 6 of which were consistent with an upper respiratory infection. 
One event was an episode of brief itching at the site of an infusion of rAHF-PFM pilot and one was a 
headache  lasting  4  hours  following  infusion  with  Recombinate.  None  of  the  events  were  consistent 
with an allergic or hypersensitivity response to the study medication. 
A  total  of  108  patients  had  serum  samples  tested  for  anti-murine  IgG.  Results  from  one  or  more 
treatment samples are available for 106 patients who were followed on study over a period of 17 to 
200 rAHF-PFM pilot exposure days. 
Baseline  levels  of  anti-murine  IgG  (n=102)  varied  from  129  to  28,444  ng/mL.  No  subject 
demonstrated  clear  evidence  of  an  upward  trend  in  antibody  levels  as  a  function  of  increasing 
exposure to rAHF-PFM. 
For 76 (72%) of the patients the level of anti-murine IgG antibody in the last serum sample was the 
same or lower than that observed in the baseline sample. Three subjects exhibited a significant trend 
40/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
towards increasing antibody levels and one patient exhibited a sharp increase in anti-murine IgG levels 
coincident  with  the  75th  and  90th  exposure  day  study  visits.  The  latter  patient  did  not  report  any 
adverse  event  during  his  participation  in  the  study.  None  of  the  events  experienced  by  the  other  3 
patients was consistent with an allergic or hypersensitivity response to the study agent. 
Results  of  anti-VWF  assays  were  available  on  one  or  more  samples  from  104  patients.  No  patient 
participating in study 069901 exhibited evidence of anti-VWF antibody in any serum sample tested. 
Finally, the assessment of the Quality part of the Application revealed a systematic decrease in factor 
VIII-potency and specific activity of the rAHF-PFM lots with increasing storage time and temperature. 
The  decrease  in  factor  VIII  potency  during  storage  is  a  marked  difference  between  rAHF-PFM  and 
Recombinate,  which  might  be  linked  to  the  fact  that  rAHF-PFM  is  albumin-free.  The  decrease  in 
potency raises the possibility that the structural integrity of the factor VIII molecule is affected during 
storage resulting in the formation of  degradation  products which might attribute to immunogenicity. 
The  applicant  should  have  addressed  this  issue  by  providing  immunogenicity  data  in  patients  who 
were treated with batches of rAHF-PFM commercial near the end of their expiry period. 
The age of rAHF-PFM lots at the time of infusion was divided into six-month intervals, representing 
the four quartiles of the rAHF-PFM lot age (the claimed shelf-life of rAHF-PFM is two years from the 
date of manufacture).  
In  study  069901,  108  subjects  received  a  total  of  3932  infusions  (29%  of  all  infusions)  of  rAHF-
PFMpilot with ages ranging from 13 to 18 months. In addition, 50 subjects received a total of 1496 
infusions (11% of all infusions) of rAHF-PFMpilot with ages ≥ 19 months. One low titre inhibitor was 
observed in study 069901 after infusion of product with an age of 13 to 18 months. No inhibitors were 
observed after infusion of product with an age months ≥ 19 months or after infusion of study product 
with an age < 13 months. 
The  subject  who  developed  an  inhibitor  received  two  different  lots  of  rAHF-PFMpilot.  This  patient 
received 16 infusions of the first lot with ages ranging from 232 days (7.6 months) to 317 days (10.4 
months) relative to manufacturing date. 
He then received 10 infusions of a different lot with ages ranging from 517 days (17.0 months) to 554 
days  (18.2  months).  As  previously  reported,  this  subject  was  withdrawn  from  the  study  by  the 
investigator due to non-compliance with the prophylactic treatment regimen at this study visit, prior to 
the receipt of the inhibitor assay results for the sample obtained at that visit. After receiving a positive 
low  responder  inhibitor  result  for  the  subject,  the  investigator  called  him  for  a  test  infusion  with 
Recombinate rAHF. The investigator reported that in-vivo recovery of factor VIII at the 1- and 3-hour 
post-infusion  time  points  was  within  the  normal  range,  suggesting  that  this  subject  may  have 
developed a transient inhibitor. Although samples drawn 8 weeks after the inhibitor was first detected 
were negative at the central laboratory and factor VIII in-vivo recoveries were similar to or higher than 
those  estimated  at  enrolment,  the  factor  VIII  inhibitor  could  not  formally  be  classified  as  transient, 
because  these  tests  occurred  after  the  subject’s  withdrawal  from  the  study  (see  also  response  to 
question number 18). 
No  inhibitor  formation  has  been  observed  in  studies  069902  (surgery  study),  060101  (paediatric 
study), and 060102 (continuation study). 
Overall, the vast majority of both pilot and commercial scale rAHF-PFM products used in the clinical 
studies were older than 7 months. No inhibitors were observed after infusion of product with an age 
≥ 19 months or after infusion of study product with an age < 13 months, whereas the only inhibitor 
was seen in the quartile 13 to 18 months. 
Nevertheless  this  question  refers  to  a  possibility  that  the  integrity  of  the  factor  VIII  molecule  is 
affected  during  storage  resulting  in  the  formation  of  degradation  products  which  may  contribute  to 
immunogenicity. No increase in immunogenicity with batches near the end of their expiry period (yet) 
41/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  observed  and  the  applicant  did  not  investigate  a  possible  formation  of  degradation  products  of 
factor VIII. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Meanwhile the safety profile of rAHF-PFM commercial was evaluated in 42 patients in study 060102 
in  the  second  interim  report.  A  total  of  99  AEs  were  reported  in  27  subjects,  5  events  in  3  subjects 
were  reported  as  serious.  None  of  the  serious  adverse  events  were  considered  to  be  related  to  the 
infusion  of  rAHF-PFM  commercial.  Seven  out  of  the  remaining  94  adverse  drug  reactions  were 
possibly or probably related to the administration of the product. 
The applicant also has evaluated 65 subjects in the continuation study who had at least 50 exposure 
days regarding immunogenicity, especially inhibitor development (major clinical objection). None of 
these patients developed an inhibitor. 
In summary, the safety assessments demonstrated that rAHF-PFM did not reveal any unknown safety 
signal.  
Although  the  results  are  encouraging  there  are  no  sufficient  safety  data  on  previously  untreated 
patients (PUPs patients) younger than 6 years and administration via continuous infusion mode which 
led to changes in the SPC. For authorisation of these aspects more data on the intended use is needed, 
(see  “Note  For  Guidance  On  The  Clinical  Investigation  Of  Recombinant  Factor  VIII  and  IX 
Products”, CPMP/BPWG/1561/99).  
Also  it  is  desirable  that  besides  the  view  on  inhibitor  development  there  is  a  further  focus  on  the 
increase of antibody levels against heterologous proteins due to the recombinant origin of the product 
(see follow up measures). 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  newly  developed,  protein-free  fermentation  process  and  the  modified  purification  process  for 
ADVATE  are  sufficiently  described  and  adequately  monitored  by  in-process  controls.  Extensive 
validation of the manufacturing process for the drug substance at commercial scale demonstrated the 
production of drug substance of consistent and comparable quality in both designated manufacturing 
suites. The drug substance has been extensively characterised showing the comparability of pilot scale 
and  commercial  scale  lots  by  using  state  of  art  techniques.  Virus  safety  with  regard  to  enveloped 
viruses was demonstrated. Compliance with the TSE guideline has widely been shown. The final drug 
product  is  formulated  in  a  protein-free  buffer  containing  trehalose  as  stabiliser  and  is  adequately 
controlled using validated methods.  
In summary, on the basis of the data provided and the agreed follow-up measures, the quality of the 
product is satisfactory. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  non-clinical  development  strategy  was  to  demonstrate  the  comparability  of  rAHF-PFM  to 
Recombinate rAHF. This was accomplished by comparing the physico-chemical, pharmacodynamic, 
pharmacokinetic and toxicological profiles of Recombinate rAHF and rAHF-PFM. 
The non-clinical testing programme for ADVATE raised no safety concerns. 
Efficacy 
ADVATE is a recombinant anti haemophilic factor VIII, made by a plasma/albumin free method. The 
new method does not employ any human or animal-derived additives in the cell culture, purification or 
formulation  of  the  final  product.  The  only  other  proteins  present  in  the  final  product  are  trace 
quantities  of  murine  immunoglobulin,  host  cell  (i.e.  CHO)  protein  and  recombinant  human  von 
42/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Willebrand factor. This virtually eliminates any risk of transmission of human blood-borne viruses or 
other adventitious agents that could, in theory, be introduced by the use of animal proteins. 
In  clinical  studies  plasma  levels  and  pharmacokinetics  of  ADVATE  (commercial  production)  were 
almost sufficiently investigated by the applicant. Based on reliable pharmacokinetic trials, the values 
of  AUC0-48    (1494  IU*h/dl),  Cmax  (123  IU/dl)  and  t1/2  (11.7  h)  after  application  of  50  IU/kg 
ADVATE  comply  with  plasma-derived  or  other  recombinant  FVIII  products.  Further,  these  values 
document  that  the  achieved  amount  of  FVIII  and  the  maintenance  of  plasma  levels  is  as  expected 
according to the posology in the SPC.  
In terms of efficacy data like number of infusions needed and estimated treatment outcome, ADVATE 
is effective to prevent and control bleedings in previously treated patients with severe haemophilia A. 
Safety 
The incident rates for the most common adverse events in previously treated patients, i.e. dysgeusia, 
headache,  dizziness  and  hot flushes, rash/pruritus, injection site reaction, chest pain,  haematuria and 
unusual taste in the mouth, indicate that drug-related adverse events were similar in nature and number 
to  those  in  clinical  trials  with  other  FVIII  products.  The  amount  of  allergic  reactions  and  inhibitor 
development  is  not  unusual  compared  to  other  recombinant  products.  However,  a  more  thoroughly 
assessment  of  the  adverse  event  pattern  cannot  be  performed  until  more  patients  have  been  treated 
with ADVATE.  
Concerning  previously  untreated  patients  and  children  less  than  six  years,  studies  are  planned  and 
commencing, and the company will submit further data on these populations. 
There  has  been  one  major  safety  concern  regarding  immunogenicity  due  to  possible  differences 
between pilot batches and commercial scale batches, which could be sufficiently enlightened. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
In  order  to  answer  a  number  of  unresolved  issues  identified  during  the  procedure,  the  CPMP 
considered that concerning the clinical pharmacokinetics: 
• 
The  applicant  committed  himself  to  present  appropriate  pharmacokinetic  data  also  for  the 
commercial product, using a minimum of two additional rAHF-PFMcommercial lots obtained in the 
post-marketing study. 
In addition, on a clinical efficacy viewpoint: 
• 
The  applicant  committed  himself  to  a  further  differentiated  evaluation  of  the  continuous 
infusion mode within the surgical study. 
Finally, in order to better characterise the safety profile of ADVATE: 
• 
• 
• 
The  applicant  committed  himself  to  a  further  differentiated  evaluation  of  the  continuous 
infusion mode within the surgical study. 
The  applicant  committed  himself  giving  detailed  data  on  any  allergic/immunological  event 
within  the  PSURs  (focussing  on  PUP/PTP  inhibitors  and  on  antibodies  against  heterologous 
proteins). 
The  applicant  committed  himself  to  summit  reassuring  data  to  the  possibility  of  degradation 
products during storage, which may contribute to immunogenicity. 
Data provided by the MAH and supplemented as requested in the List of Questions show that the risk 
of  experiencing  an  (serious)  adverse  event  can  be  considered  small  in  relationship  to  the  benefit  in 
therapy with this newly formulated FVIII product in at least previously treated patients.   
43/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore the Benefit Risk Assessment for ADVATE is considered to be positive 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of ADVATE in the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia  A  (congenital  factor  VIII  deficiency)  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
44/44 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
