ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Each prolonged-release hard capsule contains 0.5 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipients with known effect: Each capsule contains 51.09 mg lactose. 
The printing ink used to mark the capsule contains trace amounts of soya lecithin (0.48% of 
total printing ink composition). 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Each prolonged-release hard capsule contains 1 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipients with known effect: Each capsule contains 102.17 mg lactose.  
The printing ink used to mark the capsule contains trace amounts of soya lecithin (0.48% of 
total printing ink composition). 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Each prolonged-release hard capsule contains 3 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipients with known effect: Each capsule contains 306.52 mg lactose.  
The printing ink used to mark the capsule contains trace amounts of soya lecithin (0.48% of 
total printing ink composition). 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Each prolonged-release hard capsule contains 5 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipients with known effect: Each capsule contains 510.9 mg lactose. 
The printing ink used to mark the capsule contains trace amounts of soya lecithin (0.48% of 
total printing ink composition). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Prolonged-release hard capsule. 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “0.5 mg” on the light yellow capsule cap and “ 647” on the 
orange capsule body, containing white powder. 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “1 mg” on the white capsule cap and “ 677” on the orange 
capsule body, containing white powder. 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “3 mg” on the orange capsule cap and “ 637” on the orange 
capsule body, containing white powder. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “5 mg” on the greyish red capsule cap and “ 687” on the 
orange capsule body, containing white powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1 
Therapeutic indications  
Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult patients. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Advagraf is a once-a-day oral formulation of tacrolimus. Advagraf therapy requires careful monitoring 
by adequately qualified and equipped personnel. This medicinal product should only be prescribed, 
and changes in immunosuppressive therapy initiated, by physicians experienced in 
immunosuppressive therapy and the management of transplant patients. 
Different oral formulations of tacrolimus should not be substituted without clinical supervision. 
Inadvertent, unintentional or unsupervised switching between different oral formulations of tacrolimus 
with different release characteristics is unsafe. This can lead to graft rejection or increased incidence of 
adverse reactions, including under- or over-immunosuppression, due to clinically relevant differences 
in systemic exposure to tacrolimus. Patients should be maintained on a single formulation of 
tacrolimus with the corresponding daily dosing regimen; alterations in formulation or regimen should 
only take place under the close supervision of a transplant specialist (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Following conversion to any alternative formulation, therapeutic drug monitoring must be performed 
and dose adjustments made to ensure that systemic exposure to tacrolimus is maintained. 
Posology  
The recommended initial doses presented below are intended to act solely as a guideline. Advagraf is 
routinely administered in conjunction with other immunosuppressive agents in the initial post-
operative period. The dose may vary depending upon the immunosuppressive regimen chosen. 
Advagraf dosing should primarily be based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability in each 
patient individually aided by blood level monitoring (see below under “Therapeutic drug monitoring”). 
If clinical signs of rejection are apparent, alteration of the immunosuppressive regimen should be 
considered. 
In de novo kidney and liver transplant patients AUC0-24 of tacrolimus for Advagraf on Day 1 was 30% 
and 50% lower respectively, when compared with that for the immediate release capsules (Prograf) at 
equivalent doses. By Day 4, systemic exposure as measured by trough levels is similar for both kidney 
and liver transplant patients with both formulations. Careful and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus 
trough levels is recommended in the first two weeks post-transplant with Advagraf to ensure adequate 
drug exposure in the immediate post-transplant period. As tacrolimus is a substance with low 
clearance, adjustments to the Advagraf dose regimen may take several days before steady state is 
achieved. 
To suppress graft rejection, immunosuppression must be maintained; consequently, no limit to the 
duration of oral therapy can be given. 
Prophylaxis of kidney transplant rejection 
Advagraf therapy should commence at a dose of 0.20 - 0.30 mg/kg/day administered once daily in the 
morning. Administration should commence within 24 hours after the completion of surgery. 
Advagraf doses are usually reduced in the post-transplant period. It is possible in some cases to 
withdraw concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, leading to Advagraf monotherapy. Post-transplant 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
changes in the condition of the patient may alter the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus and may 
necessitate further dose adjustments. 
Prophylaxis of liver transplant rejection 
Advagraf therapy should commence at a dose of 0.10 - 0.20 mg/kg/day administered once daily in the 
morning. Administration should commence approximately 12-18 hours after the completion of 
surgery. 
Advagraf doses are usually reduced in the post-transplant period. It is possible in some cases to 
withdraw concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, leading to Advagraf monotherapy. Post-transplant 
improvement in the condition of the patient may alter the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus and may 
necessitate further dose adjustments. 
Conversion of Prograf-treated patients to Advagraf 
Allograft transplant patients maintained on twice daily Prograf capsules dosing requiring conversion to 
once daily Advagraf should be converted on a 1:1 (mg:mg) total daily dose basis. Advagraf should be 
administered in the morning.  
In stable patients converted from Prograf capsules (twice daily) to Advagraf (once daily) on a 1:1 
(mg:mg) total daily dose basis, the systemic exposure to tacrolimus (AUC0-24) for Advagraf was 
approximately 10% lower than that for Prograf. The relationship between tacrolimus trough levels 
(C24) and systemic exposure (AUC0-24) for Advagraf is similar to that of Prograf. When converting 
from Prograf capsules to Advagraf, trough levels should be measured prior to conversion and within 
two weeks after conversion. Following conversion, tacrolimus trough levels should be monitored and 
if necessary dose adjustments made to maintain similar systemic exposure. Dose adjustments should 
be made to ensure that similar systemic exposure is maintained. 
Conversion from ciclosporin to tacrolimus 
Care should be taken when converting patients from ciclosporin-based to tacrolimus-based therapy 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.5). The combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not 
recommended. Advagraf therapy should be initiated after considering ciclosporin blood concentrations 
and the clinical condition of the patient. Dosing should be delayed in the presence of elevated 
ciclosporin blood levels. In practice, tacrolimus-based therapy has been initiated 12 - 24 hours after 
discontinuation of ciclosporin. Monitoring of ciclosporin blood levels should be continued following 
conversion as the clearance of ciclosporin might be affected. 
Treatment of allograft rejection 
Increased doses of tacrolimus, supplemental corticosteroid therapy, and introduction of short courses 
of mono-/polyclonal antibodies have all been used to manage rejection episodes. If signs of toxicity 
such as severe adverse reactions are noted (see section 4.8), the dose of Advagraf may need to be 
reduced. 
Treatment of allograft rejection after kidney or liver transplantation 
For conversion from other immunosuppressants to once daily Advagraf, treatment should begin with 
the initial oral dose recommended in kidney and liver transplantation respectively for prophylaxis of 
transplant rejection. 
Treatment of allograft rejection after heart transplantation 
In adult patients converted to Advagraf, an initial oral dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day should be administered 
once daily in the morning. 
Treatment of allograft rejection after transplantation of other allografts 
Although there is no clinical experience with Advagraf in lung-, pancreas- or intestine-transplanted 
patients, Prograf has been used in lung-transplanted patients at an initial oral dose of 
0.10 - 0.15 mg/kg/day, in pancreas-transplanted patients at an initial oral dose of 0.2 mg/kg/day and in 
intestinal transplantation at an initial oral dose of 0.3 mg/kg/day.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therapeutic drug monitoring 
Dosing should primarily be based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability in each 
individual patient aided by whole blood tacrolimus trough level monitoring. 
As an aid to optimise dosing, several immunoassays are available for determining tacrolimus 
concentrations in whole blood. Comparisons of concentrations from the published literature to 
individual values in clinical practice should be assessed with care and knowledge of the assay methods 
employed. In current clinical practice, whole blood levels are monitored using immunoassay methods. 
The relationship between tacrolimus trough levels (C24) and systemic exposure (AUC0-24) is similar 
between the two formulations Advagraf and Prograf. 
Blood trough levels of tacrolimus should be monitored during the post-transplantation period. 
Tacrolimus blood trough levels should be determined approximately 24 hours post-dosing of 
Advagraf, just prior to the next dose. Frequent trough level monitoring in the initial two weeks post 
transplantation is recommended, followed by periodic monitoring during maintenance therapy. Blood 
trough levels of tacrolimus should also be closely monitored following conversion from Prograf to 
Advagraf, dose adjustments, changes in the immunosuppressive regimen, or co-administration of 
substances which may alter tacrolimus whole blood concentrations (see section 4.5). The frequency of 
blood level monitoring should be based on clinical needs. As tacrolimus is a substance with low 
clearance, following adjustments to the Advagraf dose regimen it may take several days before the 
targeted steady state is achieved. 
Data from clinical studies suggest that the majority of patients can be successfully managed if 
tacrolimus blood trough levels are maintained below 20 ng/ml. It is necessary to consider the clinical 
condition of the patient when interpreting whole blood levels. In clinical practice, whole blood trough 
levels have generally been in the range 5 - 20 ng/ml in liver transplant recipients and 10 - 20 ng/ml in 
kidney and heart transplant patients in the early post-transplant period. During subsequent maintenance 
therapy, blood concentrations have generally been in the range of 5 - 15 ng/ml in liver, kidney and 
heart transplant recipients. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment  
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment in order to maintain the 
tacrolimus blood trough levels within the recommended target range. 
Renal impairment  
As the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus are unaffected by renal function (see section 5.2), no dose 
adjustment is required. However, owing to the nephrotoxic potential of tacrolimus careful monitoring 
of renal function is recommended (including serial serum creatinine concentrations, calculation of 
creatinine clearance and monitoring of urine output). 
Race  
In comparison to Caucasians, black patients may require higher tacrolimus doses to achieve similar 
trough levels. 
Gender  
There is no evidence that male and female patients require different doses to achieve similar trough 
levels. 
Older peoples  
There is no evidence currently available to indicate that dosing should be adjusted in older people. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Advagraf in children under 18 years of age have not yet been established. 
Limited data are available but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Method of administration  
Advagraf is a once-a-day oral formulation of tacrolimus. It is recommended that the oral daily dose of 
Advagraf be administered once daily in the morning. Advagraf prolonged-release hard capsules should 
be taken immediately following removal from the blister. Patients should be advised not to swallow 
the desiccant. The capsules should be swallowed whole with fluid (preferably water). Advagraf should 
generally be administered on an empty stomach or at least 1 hour before or 2 to 3 hours after a meal, to 
achieve maximal absorption (see section 5.2). A forgotten morning dose should be taken as soon as 
possible on the same day. A double dose should not be taken on the next morning. 
In patients unable to take oral medicinal products during the immediate post-transplant period, 
tacrolimus therapy can be initiated intravenously (see Summary of Product Characteristics for Prograf 
5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion) at a dose approximately 1/5th of the recommended oral 
dose for the corresponding indication. 
4.3 
Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus, or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to other macrolides. 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use  
Medication errors, including inadvertent, unintentional or unsupervised substitution of immediate- or 
prolonged-release tacrolimus formulations, have been observed. This has led to serious adverse 
reactions, including graft rejection, or other adverse reactions which could be a consequence of either 
under- or over-exposure to tacrolimus. Patients should be maintained on a single formulation of 
tacrolimus with the corresponding daily dosing regimen; alterations in formulation or regimen should 
only take place under the close supervision of a transplant specialist (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Advagraf is not recommended for use in children below 18 years due to limited data on safety and/or 
efficacy. 
For treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult patients clinical data are not yet available for the prolonged-release formulation 
Advagraf. 
For prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult heart allograft recipients clinical data are not yet 
available for Advagraf. 
During the initial post-transplant period, monitoring of the following parameters should be undertaken 
on a routine basis: blood pressure, ECG, neurological and visual status, fasting blood glucose levels, 
electrolytes (particularly potassium), liver and renal function tests, haematology parameters, 
coagulation values, and plasma protein determinations. If clinically relevant changes are seen, 
adjustments of the immunosuppressive regimen should be considered. 
Substances with potential for interaction 
Inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 should only be co-administered with tacrolimus after consulting a 
transplant specialist, due to the potential for drug interactions resulting in serious adverse reactions 
including rejection or toxicity (see section 4.5).  
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase tacrolimus blood levels, which could lead to 
serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity and QT prolongation. It is 
recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ritonavir, cobicistat, 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin, clarithromycin or josamycin) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with tacrolimus should be avoided. If unavoidable, tacrolimus blood levels should be monitored 
frequently, starting within the first few days of co-administration, under the supervision of a transplant 
specialist, to adjust the tacrolimus dose if appropriate in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure. 
Renal function, ECG including the QT interval, and the clinical condition of the patient should also be 
closely monitored. 
Dose adjustment needs to be based upon the individual situation of each patient. An immediate dose 
reduction at the time of treatment initiation may be required (see section 4.5). 
Similarly, discontinuation of CYP3A4 inhibitors may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus, 
thereby leading to subtherapeutic blood levels of tacrolimus, and therefore requires close monitoring 
and supervision of a transplant specialist. 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers may decrease tacrolimus blood levels, potentially increasing 
the risk of transplant rejection. It is recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers 
(such as rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine) with tacrolimus should be avoided. If unavoidable, 
tacrolimus blood levels should be monitored frequently, starting within the first few days of co-
administration, under the supervision of a transplant specialist, to adjust the tacrolimus dose if 
appropriate, in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure. Graft function should also be closely 
monitored (see section 4.5). 
Similarly, discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus, 
thereby leading to supratherapeutic blood levels of tacrolimus, and therefore requires close monitoring 
and supervision of a transplant specialist. 
P-glycoprotein 
Caution should be observed when co-administering tacrolimus with drugs that inhibit P-glycoprotein, 
as an increase in tacrolimus levels may occur. Tacrolimus whole blood levels and the clinical 
condition of the patient should be monitored closely. An adjustment of the tacrolimus dose may be 
required (see section 4.5). 
Herbal preparations 
Herbal preparations containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or other herbal preparations 
should be avoided when taking Advagraf due to the risk of interactions that lead to either a decrease in 
blood concentrations of tacrolimus and reduced clinical effect of tacrolimus, or an increase in blood 
concentrations of tacrolimus and risk of tacrolimus toxicity (see section 4.5). 
Other interactions 
The combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus should be avoided and care should be 
taken when administering tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
High potassium intake or potassium-sparing diuretics should be avoided (see section 4.5). 
Certain combinations of tacrolimus with drugs known to have neurotoxic effects may increase the risk 
of these effects (see section 4.5). 
Vaccination 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination and vaccination during treatment with 
tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided. 
Nephrotoxicity 
Tacrolimus can result in renal function impairment in post-transplant patients. Acute renal impairment 
without active intervention may progress to chronic renal impairment. Patients with impaired renal 
function should be monitored closely as the dosage of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. The risk for 
nephrotoxicity may increase when tacrolimus is concomitantly administered with drugs associated 
with nephrotoxicity (see section 4.5). Concurrent use of tacrolimus with drugs known to have 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nephrotoxic effects should be avoided. When co-administration cannot be avoided, tacrolimus trough 
blood level and renal function should be monitored closely and dosage reduction should be considered 
if nephrotoxicity occurs. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal perforation has been reported in patients treated with tacrolimus. As gastrointestinal 
perforation is a medically important event that may lead to a life-threatening or serious condition, 
adequate treatments should be considered immediately after suspected symptoms or signs occur. 
Since levels of tacrolimus in blood may significantly change during diarrhoea episodes, extra 
monitoring of tacrolimus concentrations is recommended during episodes of diarrhoea. 
Cardiac disorders 
Ventricular hypertrophy or hypertrophy of the septum, reported as cardiomyopathies, have been 
observed in Prograf treated patients on rare occasions and may also occur with Advagraf. Most cases 
have been reversible, occurring with tacrolimus blood trough concentrations much higher than the 
recommended maximum levels. Other factors observed to increase the risk of these clinical conditions 
included pre-existing heart disease, corticosteroid usage, hypertension, renal or hepatic dysfunction, 
infections, fluid overload, and oedema. Accordingly, high-risk patients receiving substantial 
immunosuppression should be monitored, using such procedures as echocardiography or ECG pre- 
and post-transplant (e.g. initially at 3 months and then at 9 -12 months). If abnormalities develop, dose 
reduction of Advagraf, or change of treatment to another immunosuppressive agent should be 
considered. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and may cause Torsades de pointes. Caution 
should be exercised in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation, including patients with a 
personal or family history of QT prolongation, congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias and 
electrolyte abnormalities. Caution should also be exercised in patients diagnosed or suspected to have 
Congenital Long QT Syndrome or acquired QT prolongation or patients on concomitant medications 
known to prolong the QT interval, induce electrolyte abnormalities or known to increase tacrolimus 
exposure (see section 4.5).   
Lymphoproliferative disorders and malignancies 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been reported to develop Epstein-Barr-Virus (EBV)-associated 
lymphoproliferative disorders (see section 4.8). A combination of immunosuppressives such as 
antilymphocytic antibodies (e.g. basiliximab, daclizumab) given concomitantly increases the risk of 
EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders. EBV-Viral Capsid Antigen (VCA)-negative patients 
have been reported to have an increased risk of developing lymphoproliferative disorders. Therefore, 
in this patient group, EBV-VCA serology should be ascertained before starting treatment with 
Advagraf. During treatment, careful monitoring with EBV-PCR is recommended. Positive EBV-PCR 
may persist for months and is per se not indicative of lymphoproliferative disease or lymphoma. 
As with other potent immunosuppressive compounds, the risk of secondary cancer is unknown (see 
section 4.8). 
As with other immunosuppressive agents, owing to the potential risk of malignant skin changes, 
exposure to sunlight and UV light should be limited by wearing protective clothing and using a 
sunscreen with a high protection factor. 
Infections including opportunistic infections  
Patients treated with immunosuppressants, including Advagraf are at increased risk for infections 
including opportunistic infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal) such as CMV infection, BK 
virus associated nephropathy and JC virus associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML). Patients are also at an increased risk of infections with viral hepatitis (for example, hepatitis B 
and C reactivation and de novo infection, as well as hepatitis E, which may become chronic). These 
infections are often related to a high total immunosuppressive burden and may lead to serious or fatal 
conditions including graft rejection that physicians should consider in the differential diagnosis in 
immunosuppressed patients with deteriorating hepatic or renal function or neurological symptoms. 
Prevention and management should be in accordance with appropriate clinical guidance. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been reported to develop posterior reversible encephalopathy 
syndrome (PRES). If patients taking tacrolimus present with symptoms indicating PRES such as 
headache, altered mental status, seizures, and visual disturbances, a radiological procedure (e.g. MRI) 
should be performed. If PRES is diagnosed, adequate blood pressure and seizure control and 
immediate discontinuation of systemic tacrolimus is advised. Most patients completely recover after 
appropriate measures are taken. 
Eye disorders 
Eye disorders, sometimes progressing to loss of vision, have been reported in patients treated with 
tacrolimus. Some cases have reported resolution on switching to alternative immunosuppression. 
Patients should be advised to report changes in visual acuity, changes in colour vision, blurred vision, 
or visual field defect, and in such cases, prompt evaluation is recommended with referral to an 
ophthalmologist as appropriate. 
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) (including haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) and thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)) 
The diagnosis of TMA, including thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura (TTP) and haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome (HUS), sometimes leading to renal failure or a fatal outcome, should be considered 
in patients presenting with haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, fluctuating neurological 
manifestation, renal impairment, and fever. If TMA is diagnosed, prompt treatment is required, and 
discontinuation of tacrolimus should be considered at the discretion of the treating physician. 
The concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) 
inhibitor (e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura). 
Pure Red Cell Aplasia 
Cases of pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) have been reported in patients treated with tacrolimus. All 
patients reported risk factors for PRCA such as parvovirus B19 infection, underlying disease or 
concomitant medications associated with PRCA. 
Special populations 
There is limited experience in non-Caucasian patients and patients at elevated immunological risk (e.g. 
retransplantation, evidence of panel reactive antibodies, PRA). 
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment (see section 4.2). 
Excipients 
As Advagraf capsules contain lactose, patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, 
total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine. 
The printing ink used to mark Advagraf capsules contains soya lecithin. In patients who are 
hypersensitive to peanut or soya, the risk and severity of hypersensitivity should be weighed against 
the benefit of using Advagraf. This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, 
that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Metabolic interactions 
Systemically available tacrolimus is metabolised by hepatic CYP3A4. There is also evidence of 
gastrointestinal metabolism by CYP3A4 in the intestinal wall. Concomitant use of medicinal products 
or herbal remedies known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of tacrolimus and 
thereby increase or decrease tacrolimus blood levels. Similarly, discontinuation of such products or 
herbal remedies may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus and thereby the blood levels of 
tacrolimus. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics studies have indicated that the increase in tacrolimus blood levels when co-
administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 is mainly a result of increase in oral bioavailability of 
tacrolimus owing to the inhibition of gastrointestinal metabolism. Effect on hepatic clearance is less 
pronounced. 
It is recommended strongly to closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels under supervision of a 
transplant specialist, as well as, monitor for graft function, QT prolongation (with ECG), renal 
function and other side effects including neurotoxicity, whenever substances which have the potential 
to alter CYP3A4 metabolism are used concomitantly, and to adjust or interrupt the tacrolimus dose if 
appropriate in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Similarly, 
patients should be closely monitored when using tacrolimus concomitantly with multiple substances 
that affect CYP3A4 as the effects on tacrolimus exposure may be enhanced or counteracted.  
Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus are listed in the table below. The examples of 
drug-drug interactions are not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with tacrolimus should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with regards 
to co-administration. 
Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Drug interaction effect 
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice  May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) [see section 4.4]. 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations. In 
addition, synergistic/additive 
nephrotoxic effects can occur. 
May enhance nephrotoxic or 
neurotoxic effects of tacrolimus. 
Ciclosporin 
Products known to have 
nephrotoxic or neurotoxic 
effects: 
aminoglycosides, gyrase 
inhibitors, vancomycin, 
sulfamethoxazole + 
trimethoprim, NSAIDs, 
ganciclovir, acyclovir, 
amphotericin B, ibuprofen, 
cidofovir, foscarnet 
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration 
Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit 
juice. 
The simultaneous use of 
ciclosporin and tacrolimus 
should be avoided [see section 
4.4]. 
Concurrent use of tacrolimus 
with drugs known to have 
nephrotoxic effects should be 
avoided. When co-
administration cannot be 
avoided, monitor renal 
function and other side effects 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed. 
10 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration 
It is recommended that 
concomitant use should be 
avoided. If co-administration 
of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor 
is unavoidable, consider 
omitting the dose of tacrolimus 
the day the strong CYP3A4 
inhibitor is initiated. Reinitiate 
tacrolimus the next day at a 
reduced dose based on 
tacrolimus blood 
concentrations. Changes in 
both tacrolimus dose and/or 
dosing frequency should be 
individualized and adjusted as 
needed based on tacrolimus 
trough concentrations, which 
should be assessed at initiation, 
monitored frequently 
throughout (starting within the 
first few days) and re-
evaluated on and after 
completion of the CYP3A4 
inhibitor. Upon completion, 
appropriate dose and dosing 
frequency of tacrolimus should 
be guided by tacrolimus blood 
concentrations. Monitor renal 
function, ECG for QT 
prolongation, and other side 
effects closely. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
frequently, starting within the 
first few days of co-
administration. Reduce 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
section 4.2]. Monitor renal 
function, ECG for QT 
prolongation, and other side 
effects closely. 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: 
antifungal agents (e.g., 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
posaconazole, voriconazole), 
the macrolide antibiotics (e.g., 
telithromycin, 
troleandomycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin), 
HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., 
ritonavir, nelfinavir, 
saquinavir), HCV protease 
inhibitors (e.g., telaprevir, 
boceprevir, and the 
combination of ombitasvir 
and paritaprevir with 
ritonavir, when used with and 
without dasabuvir), 
nefazodone, the 
pharmacokinetic enhancer 
cobicistat, and the kinase 
inhibitors idelalisib, ceritinib. 
Strong interactions have also 
been observed with the 
macrolide antibiotic 
erythromycin 
Drug interaction effect 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., nephrotoxicity, 
neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) 
which requires close monitoring 
[see section 4.4]. 
Rapid and sharp increases in 
tacrolimus levels may occur, as 
early as within 1-3 days after co-
administration, despite immediate 
reduction of tacrolimus dose. 
Overall tacrolimus exposure may 
increase > 5 fold. When ritonavir 
combinations are co-administered, 
tacrolimus exposure may increase 
> 50 fold. Nearly all patients may 
require a reduction in tacrolimus 
dose and temporary interruption of 
tacrolimus may also be necessary. 
The effect on tacrolimus blood 
concentrations may remain for 
several days after co-administration 
is completed. 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) [see section 4.4]. A 
rapid increase in tacrolimus level 
may occur. 
Moderate or weak CYP3A4 
inhibitors: 
antifungal agents (e.g., 
fluconazole, isavuconazole, 
clotrimazole, miconazole), the 
macrolide antibiotics (e.g., 
azithromycin), calcium 
channel blockers (e.g., 
nifedipine, nicardipine, 
diltiazem, verapamil), 
amiodarone, danazol, 
ethinylestradiol, lansoprazole, 
omeprazole, the HCV 
antivirals elbasvir/grazoprevir 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, 
the CMV antiviral letermovir, 
and the tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors nilotinib, crizotinib 
and imatinib and (Chinese) 
herbal remedies containing 
extracts of Schisandra 
sphenanthera 
11 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
In vitro the following 
substances have been shown 
to be potential inhibitors of 
tacrolimus metabolism: 
bromocriptine, cortisone, 
dapsone, ergotamine, 
gestodene, lidocaine, 
mephenytoin, midazolam, 
nilvadipine, norethisterone, 
quinidine, tamoxifen 
Strong CYP3A4 inducers: 
rifampicin, phenytoin, 
carbamazepine, apalutamide, 
enzalutamide, mitotane, or St. 
John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
Moderate CYP3A4 inducers: 
metamizole, phenobarbital, 
isoniazid, rifabutin, efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine; weak 
CYP3A4 inducers: 
flucloxacillin 
Caspofungin 
Cannabidiol (P-gp inhibitor) 
Drug interaction effect 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) [see section 4.4]. 
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and reduce tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor renal function, ECG 
for QT prolongation, and other 
side effects closely. 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Maximal effect on tacrolimus blood 
concentrations may be achieved 1-2 
weeks after co-administration. The 
effect may remain 1-2 weeks after 
completion of the treatment. 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
It is recommended that 
concomitant use should be 
avoided. If unavoidable, 
patients may require an 
increase in tacrolimus dose. 
Changes in tacrolimus dose 
should be individualized and 
adjusted as needed based on 
tacrolimus trough 
concentrations, which should 
be assessed at initiation, 
monitored frequently 
throughout (starting within the 
first few days) and re-
evaluated on and after 
completion of the CYP3A4 
inducer. After use of the 
CYP3A4 inducer has ended, 
tacrolimus dose may need to 
be adjusted gradually. Monitor 
graft function closely. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and increase tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely. 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection. 
Mechanism of interaction has not 
been confirmed. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and increase tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely. 
There have been reports of 
increased tacrolimus blood levels 
during concomitant use of 
tacrolimus with cannabidiol. This 
may be due to inhibition of 
intestinal P-glycoprotein, leading to 
increased bioavailability of 
tacrolimus. 
Tacrolimus and cannabidiol 
should be co-administered with 
caution, closely monitoring for 
side effects. Monitor 
tacrolimus whole blood trough 
concentrations and adjust the 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4]. 
12 
 
 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Products known to have high 
affinity for plasma proteins, 
e.g.: NSAIDs, oral 
anticoagulants, oral 
antidiabetics 
Prokinetic agents: 
metoclopramide, cimetidine 
and magnesium-aluminium-
hydroxide 
Drug interaction effect 
Tacrolimus is extensively bound to 
plasma proteins. Possible 
interactions with other active 
substances known to have high 
affinity for plasma proteins should 
be considered. 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation). 
Maintenance doses of 
corticosteroids 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and reduce tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor closely for renal 
function, for QT prolongation 
with ECG, and for other side 
effects. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and increase tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely. 
High dose prednisolone or 
methylprednisolone 
May have impact on tacrolimus 
blood levels (increase or decrease) 
when administered for the treatment 
of acute rejection. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed. 
Direct-acting antiviral (DAA) 
therapy 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed to ensure continued 
efficacy and safety. 
May have impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus by 
changes in liver function during 
DAA therapy, related to clearance 
of hepatitis virus. A decrease in 
tacrolimus blood levels may occur.  
However, the CYP3A4 inhibiting 
potential of some DAAs may 
counteract that effect or lead to 
increased tacrolimus blood levels. 
Concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor 
(e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) (see section 4.4).  
As tacrolimus treatment may be associated with hyperkalaemia, or may increase pre-existing 
hyperkalaemia, high potassium intake, or potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g. amiloride, triamterene, or 
spironolactone) should be avoided (see section 4.4). Care should be taken when tacrolimus is co-
administered with other agents that increase serum potassium, such as trimethoprim and cotrimoxazole 
(trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole), as trimethoprim is known to act as a potassium-sparing diuretic like 
amiloride. Close monitoring of serum potassium is recommended. 
Effect of tacrolimus on the metabolism of other medicinal products 
Tacrolimus is a known CYP3A4 inhibitor; thus concomitant use of tacrolimus with medicinal products 
known to be metabolised by CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of such medicinal products. 
The half-life of ciclosporin is prolonged when tacrolimus is given concomitantly. In addition, 
synergistic/additive nephrotoxic effects can occur. For these reasons, the combined administration of 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not recommended and care should be taken when administering 
tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Tacrolimus has been shown to increase the blood level of phenytoin. 
As tacrolimus may reduce the clearance of steroid-based contraceptives leading to increased hormone 
exposure, particular care should be exercised when deciding upon contraceptive measures. 
Limited knowledge of interactions between tacrolimus and statins is available. Clinical data suggest 
that the pharmacokinetics of statins are largely unaltered by the co-administration of tacrolimus. 
Animal data have shown that tacrolimus could potentially decrease the clearance and increase the half-
life of pentobarbital and antipyrine. 
Mycophenolic acid. Caution should be exercised when switching combination therapy from 
ciclosporin, which interferes with enterohepatic recirculation of mycophenolic acid, to tacrolimus, 
which is devoid of this effect, as this might result in changes of mycophenolic acid exposure. Drugs 
which interfere with mycophenolic acid's enterohepatic cycle have potential to reduce the plasma level 
and efficacy of mycophenolic acid. Therapeutic drug monitoring of mycophenolic acid may be 
appropriate when switching from ciclosporin to tacrolimus or vice versa. 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination and vaccination during treatment with 
tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided (see section 
4.4). 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy  
Human data show that tacrolimus crosses the placenta. Limited data from organ transplant recipients 
show no evidence of an increased risk of adverse reactions on the course and outcome of pregnancy 
under tacrolimus treatment compared with other immunosuppressive medicinal products. However, 
cases of spontaneous abortion have been reported. To date, no other relevant epidemiological data are 
available. Tacrolimus treatment can be considered in pregnant women, when there is no safer 
alternative and when the perceived benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. In case of in utero 
exposure, monitoring of the newborn for the potential adverse events of tacrolimus is recommended 
(in particular effects on the kidneys). There is a risk for premature delivery (< 37 week) (incidence of 
66 of 123 births, i.e. 53.7%; however, data showed that the majority of the newborns had normal birth 
weight for their gestational age) as well as for hyperkalaemia in the newborn (incidence 8 of 111 
neonates, i.e. 7.2%) which, however normalises spontaneously. 
In rats and rabbits, tacrolimus caused embryofoetal toxicity at doses which demonstrated maternal 
toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding  
Human data demonstrate that tacrolimus is excreted in breast milk. As detrimental effects on the 
newborn cannot be excluded, women should not breast-feed whilst receiving Advagraf. 
Fertility  
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reduced sperm counts and motility was 
observed in rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Tacrolimus may cause visual and neurological disturbances. This effect may be enhanced if tacrolimus 
is administered in association with alcohol. 
No studies on the effects of tacrolimus (Advagraf) on the ability to drive and use machines have been 
performed. 
14 
 
 
 
 
4.8 
Undesirable effects  
The adverse reaction profile associated with immunosuppressive agents is often difficult to establish 
owing to the underlying disease and the concurrent use of multiple medicinal products. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions (occurring in > 10% of patients) are tremor, renal 
impairment, hyperglycaemic conditions, diabetes mellitus, hyperkalaemia, infections, hypertension 
and insomnia. 
The frequency of adverse reactions is defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable 
effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Infections and infestations 
As is well known for other potent immunosuppressive agents, patients receiving tacrolimus are 
frequently at increased risk for infections (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoal). The course of pre-
existing infections may be aggravated. Both generalised and localised infections can occur. 
Cases of CMV infection, BK virus associated nephropathy, as well as cases of JC virus associated 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), have been reported in patients treated with 
immunosuppressants, including Advagraf. 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps) 
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk of developing malignancies. 
Benign as well as malignant neoplasms including EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders and 
skin malignancies have been reported in association with tacrolimus treatment. 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare:   
not known:  
anaemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, red blood cell analyses abnormal, 
leukocytosis 
coagulopathies, pancytopenia, neutropenia, coagulation and bleeding analyses, 
abnormal, thrombotic microangiopathy 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, hypoprothrombinaemia 
pure red cell aplasia, agranulocytosis, haemolytic anaemia, febrile neutropenia 
Immune system disorders  
Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in patients receiving tacrolimus (see section 
4.4). 
Endocrine disorders 
rare: 
hirsutism 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
very common: 
common: 
diabetes mellitus, hyperglycaemic conditions, hyperkalaemia 
metabolic acidoses, other electrolyte abnormalities, hyponatraemia, fluid overload, 
hyperuricaemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypokalaemia, hypocalcaemia, appetite 
decreased, hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypophosphataemia 
dehydration, hypoglycaemia, hypoproteinaemia, hyperphosphataemia 
uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
insomnia 
confusion and disorientation, depression, anxiety symptoms, hallucination, mental 
disorders, depressed mood, mood disorders and disturbances, nightmare 
psychotic disorder 
Nervous system disorders 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
very rare:  
not known: 
Eye disorders 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare:   
not known: 
headache, tremor 
nervous system disorders, seizures, disturbances in consciousness, peripheral 
neuropathies, dizziness, paraesthesias and dysaesthesias, writing impaired 
encephalopathy, central nervous system haemorrhages and cerebrovascular 
accidents, coma, speech and language abnormalities, paralysis and paresis, amnesia 
hypertonia 
myasthenia 
posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
eye disorders, vision blurred, photophobia 
cataract 
blindness 
optic neuropathy  
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
tinnitus 
common: 
hypoacusis 
uncommon: 
deafness neurosensory 
rare: 
hearing impaired 
very rare: 
Cardiac disorders 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare:  
very rare: 
Vascular disorders 
very common:  
common: 
uncommon: 
ischaemic coronary artery disorders, tachycardia 
heart failures, ventricular arrhythmias and cardiac arrest, supraventricular 
arrhythmias, cardiomyopathies, ventricular hypertrophy, palpitations  
pericardial effusion 
Torsades de pointes 
hypertension 
thromboembolic and ischaemic events, vascular hypotensive disorders, 
haemorrhage, peripheral vascular disorders 
venous thrombosis deep limb, shock, infarction 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
parenchymal lung disorders, dyspnoea, pleural effusion, cough, pharyngitis, nasal 
congestion and inflammations 
respiratory failures, respiratory tract disorders, asthma 
acute respiratory distress syndrome 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
very common: 
common: 
diarrhoea, nausea  
gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, vomiting, gastrointestinal and abdominal 
pains, gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions, gastrointestinal haemorrhages, 
gastrointestinal ulceration and perforation, ascites, stomatitis and ulceration, 
constipation, dyspeptic signs and symptoms, flatulence, bloating and distension, 
loose stools 
acute and chronic pancreatitis, ileus paralytic, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
impaired gastric emptying 
pancreatic pseudocyst, subileus 
uncommon: 
rare: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
common: 
rare: 
very rare: 
bile duct disorders, hepatocellular damage and hepatitis, cholestasis and jaundice 
venoocclusive liver disease, hepatic artery thrombosis 
hepatic failure 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
uncommon: 
rare:   
very rare: 
Investigations 
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
very rare: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare:   
very rare: 
rash, pruritus, alopecias, acne, sweating increased 
dermatitis, photosensitivity 
toxic epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
arthralgia, back pain, muscle spasms, pain in extremity 
joint disorders 
mobility decreased 
Renal and urinary disorders 
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
very rare: 
renal impairment 
renal failure, renal failure acute, nephropathy toxic, renal tubular necrosis, urinary 
abnormalities, oliguria, bladder and urethral symptoms 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, anuria 
nephropathy, cystitis haemorrhagic 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
uncommon: 
dysmenorrhoea and uterine bleeding 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
common: 
febrile disorders, pain and discomfort, asthenic conditions, oedema, body 
temperature perception disturbed 
influenza like illness, feeling jittery, feeling abnormal, multi-organ failure, chest 
pressure sensation, temperature intolerance 
fall, ulcer, chest tightness, thirst 
fat tissue increased 
liver function tests abnormal 
blood alkaline phosphatase increased, weight increased 
amylase increased, ECG investigations abnormal, heart rate and pulse 
investigations abnormal, weight decreased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
echocardiogram abnormal, electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
common: 
primary graft dysfunction 
Medication errors, including inadvertent, unintentional or unsupervised substitution of immediate- or 
prolonged-release tacrolimus formulations, have been observed. A number of associated cases of 
transplant rejection have been reported (frequency cannot be estimated from available data). 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Pain in extremity has been described in a number of published case reports as part of Calcineurin-
Inhibitor Induced Pain Syndrome (CIPS). This typically presents as a bilateral and symmetrical, 
severe, ascending pain in the lower extremities and may be associated with supra-therapeutic levels of 
tacrolimus. The syndrome may respond to tacrolimus dose reduction. In some cases, it was necessary 
to switch to alternative immunosuppression. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9 
Overdose  
Experience with overdose is limited. Several cases of accidental overdose have been reported with 
tacrolimus; symptoms have included tremor, headache, nausea and vomiting, infections, urticaria, 
lethargy and increases in blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine and alanine aminotransferase levels. 
No specific antidote to tacrolimus therapy is available. If overdose occurs, general supportive 
measures and symptomatic treatment should be conducted. 
Based on its high molecular weight, poor aqueous solubility, and extensive erythrocyte and plasma 
protein binding, it is anticipated that tacrolimus will not be dialysable. In isolated patients with very 
high plasma levels, haemofiltration or -diafiltration have been effective in reducing toxic 
concentrations. In cases of oral intoxication, gastric lavage and/or the use of adsorbents (such as 
activated charcoal) may be helpful, if used shortly after intake. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, calcineurin inhibitors, ATC code: L04AD02   
Mechanism of action 
At the molecular level, the effects of tacrolimus appear to be mediated by binding to a cytosolic 
protein (FKBP12) which is responsible for the intracellular accumulation of the compound. The 
FKBP12-tacrolimus complex specifically and competitively binds to and inhibits calcineurin, leading 
to a calcium-dependent inhibition of T-cell signal transduction pathways, thereby preventing 
transcription of a discrete set of cytokine genes. 
Tacrolimus is a highly potent immunosuppressive agent and has proven activity in both in vitro and in 
vivo experiments. 
In particular, tacrolimus inhibits the formation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, which are mainly responsible 
for graft rejection. Tacrolimus suppresses T-cell activation and T-helper-cell dependent B-cell 
proliferation, as well as the formation of lymphokines (such as interleukins-2, -3, and γ-interferon) and 
the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor. 
Results from clinical trials performed with once-daily tacrolimus Advagraf 
Liver transplantation 
The efficacy and safety of Advagraf and Prograf, both in combination with corticosteroids, was 
compared in 471 de novo liver transplant recipients. The event rate of biopsy confirmed acute rejection 
within the first 24 weeks after transplantation was 32.6% in the Advagraf group (N = 237) and 29.3% 
in the Prograf group (N = 234). The treatment difference (Advagraf – Prograf) was 3.3% (95% 
confidence interval [-5.7%, 12.3%]). The 12-month patient survival rates were 89.2% for Advagraf 
and 90.8% for Prograf; in the Advagraf arm 25 patients died (14 female, 11 male) and in the Prograf 
arm 24 patients died (5 female, 19 male). 12-month graft survival was 85.3% for Advagraf and 85.6% 
for Prograf. 
Kidney transplantation 
The efficacy and safety of Advagraf and Prograf, both in combination with mycophenolate mofetil 
(MMF) and corticosteroids, was compared in 667 de novo kidney transplant recipients. The event rate 
for biopsy-confirmed acute rejection within the first 24 weeks after transplantation was 18.6% in the 
Advagraf group (N = 331) and 14.9% in the Prograf group (N = 336). The treatment difference 
(Advagraf-Prograf) was 3.8% (95% confidence interval [-2.1%, 9.6%]). The 12-month patient survival 
rates were 96.9% for Advagraf and 97.5% for Prograf; in the Advagraf arm 10 patients died (3 female, 
7 male) and in the Prograf arm 8 patients died (3 female, 5 male). 12-month graft survival was 91.5% 
for Advagraf and 92.8% for Prograf. 
The efficacy and safety of Prograf, ciclosporin and Advagraf, all in combination with basiliximab 
antibody induction, MMF and corticosteroids, was compared in 638 de novo kidney transplant 
recipients. The incidence of efficacy failure at 12 months (defined as death, graft loss, biopsy-
18 
 
 
 
 
 
confirmed acute rejection, or lost to follow-up) was 14.0% in the Advagraf group (N = 214), 15.1% in 
the Prograf group (N = 212) and 17.0% in the ciclosporin group (N = 212). The treatment difference 
was -3.0% (Advagraf-ciclosporin) (95.2% confidence interval [-9.9%, 4.0%]) for Advagraf vs. 
ciclosporin and -1.9% (Prograf-ciclosporin) (95.2% confidence interval [-8.9%, 5.2%]) for Prograf vs. 
ciclosporin. The 12-month patient survival rates were 98.6% for Advagraf, 95.7% for Prograf and 
97.6% for ciclosporin; in the Advagraf arm 3 patients died (all male), in the Prograf arm 10 patients 
died (3 female, 7 male) and in the ciclosporin arm 6 patients died (3 female, 3 male). 12-month graft 
survival was 96.7% for Advagraf, 92.9% for Prograf and 95.7% for ciclosporin. 
Clinical efficacy and safety of Prograf capsules bid in primary organ transplantation 
In prospective studies oral Prograf was investigated as primary immunosuppressant in approximately 
175 patients following lung, 475 patients following pancreas and 630 patients following intestinal 
transplantation. Overall, the safety profile of oral Prograf in these published studies appeared to be 
similar to what was reported in the large studies, where Prograf was used as primary treatment in liver, 
kidney and heart transplantation. Efficacy results of the largest studies in each indication are 
summarised below. 
Lung transplantation 
The interim analysis of a recent multicentre study using oral Prograf discussed 110 patients who 
underwent 1:1 randomisation to either tacrolimus or ciclosporin. Tacrolimus was started as continuous 
intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.01 to 0.03 mg/kg/day and oral tacrolimus was administered at a 
dose of 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg/day. A lower incidence of acute rejection episodes for tacrolimus- versus 
ciclosporin-treated patients (11.5% versus 22.6%) and a lower incidence of chronic rejection, the 
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (2.86% versus 8.57%), was reported within the first year after 
transplantation. The 1-year patient survival rate was 80.8% in the tacrolimus and 83% in the 
ciclosporin group. 
Another randomised study included 66 patients on tacrolimus versus 67 patients on ciclosporin. 
Tacrolimus was started as continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.025 mg/kg/day and oral 
tacrolimus was administered at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day with subsequent dose adjustments to target 
trough levels of 10 to 20 ng/ml. The 1-year patient survival was 83% in the tacrolimus and 71% in the 
ciclosporin group, the 2-year survival rates were 76% and 66%, respectively. Acute rejection episodes 
per 100 patient-days were numerically fewer in the tacrolimus (0.85 episodes) than in the ciclosporin 
group (1.09 episodes). Obliterative bronchiolitis developed in 21.7% of patients in the tacrolimus 
group compared with 38.0% of patients in the ciclosporin group (p = 0.025). Significantly more 
ciclosporin-treated patients (n = 13) required a switch to tacrolimus than tacrolimus-treated patients to 
ciclosporin (n = 2) (p = 0.02) (Keenan et al., Ann Thoracic Surg 1995;60:580). 
In an additional two-centre study, 26 patients were randomised to the tacrolimus versus 24 patients to 
the ciclosporin group. Tacrolimus was started as continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 
0.05 mg/kg/day and oral tacrolimus was administered at a dose of 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg/day with 
subsequent dose adjustments to target trough levels of 12 to 15 ng/ml. The 1-year survival rates were 
73.1% in the tacrolimus versus 79.2% in the ciclosporin group. Freedom from acute rejection was 
higher in the tacrolimus group at 6 months (57.7% versus 45.8%) and at 1 year after lung 
transplantation (50% versus 33.3%). 
The three studies demonstrated similar survival rates. The incidences of acute rejection were 
numerically lower with tacrolimus in all three studies and one of the studies reported a significantly 
lower incidence of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome with tacrolimus. 
Pancreas transplantation 
A multicentre study using oral Prograf included 205 patients undergoing simultaneous pancreas-
kidney transplantation who were randomised to tacrolimus (n = 103) or to ciclosporin (n = 102). The 
initial oral per protocol dose of tacrolimus was 0.2 mg/kg/day with subsequent dose adjustments to 
target trough levels of 8 to 15 ng/ml by Day 5 and 5 to 10 ng/ml after Month 6. Pancreas survival at 1 
year was significantly superior with tacrolimus: 91.3% versus 74.5% with ciclosporin (p < 0.0005), 
whereas renal graft survival was similar in both groups. In total 34 patients switched treatment from 
ciclosporin to tacrolimus, whereas only 6 tacrolimus patients required alternative therapy. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
Intestinal transplantation 
Published clinical experience from a single centre on the use of oral Prograf for primary treatment 
following intestinal transplantation showed that the actuarial survival rate of 155 patients (65 intestine 
alone, 75 liver and intestine, and 25 multivisceral) receiving tacrolimus and prednisone was 75% at 
1 year, 54% at 5 years, and 42% at 10 years. In the early years the initial oral dose of tacrolimus was 
0.3 mg/kg/day. Results continuously improved with increasing experience over the course of 11 years. 
A variety of innovations, such as techniques for early detection of Epstein-Barr (EBV) and CMV 
infections, bone marrow augmentation, the adjunct use of the interleukin-2 antagonist daclizumab, 
lower initial tacrolimus doses with target trough levels of 10 to 15 ng/ml, and most recently allograft 
irradiation were considered to have contributed to improved results in this indication over time. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption  
In man tacrolimus has been shown to be able to be absorbed throughout the gastrointestinal tract. 
Available tacrolimus is generally rapidly absorbed. Advagraf is a prolonged-release formulation of 
tacrolimus resulting in an extended oral absorption profile with an average time to maximum blood 
concentration (Cmax) of approximately 2 hours (tmax). 
Absorption is variable and the mean oral bioavailability of tacrolimus (investigated with the Prograf 
formulation) is in the range of 20% - 25% (individual range in adult patients 6% - 43%). The oral 
bioavailability of Advagraf was reduced when it was administered after a meal. Both the rate and 
extent of absorption of Advagraf were reduced when administered with food. 
Bile flow does not influence the absorption of tacrolimus and therefore treatment with Advagraf may 
commence orally. 
A strong correlation exists between AUC and whole blood trough levels at steady-state for Advagraf. 
Monitoring of whole blood trough levels therefore provides a good estimate of systemic exposure. 
Distribution  
In man, the disposition of tacrolimus after intravenous infusion may be described as biphasic. 
In the systemic circulation, tacrolimus binds strongly to erythrocytes resulting in an approximate 20:1 
distribution ratio of whole blood/plasma concentrations. In plasma, tacrolimus is highly bound 
(> 98.8%) to plasma proteins, mainly to serum albumin and α-1-acid glycoprotein. 
Tacrolimus is extensively distributed in the body. The steady-state volume of distribution based on 
plasma concentrations is approximately 1300 l (healthy subjects). Corresponding data based on whole 
blood averaged 47.6 l. 
Metabolism  
Tacrolimus is widely metabolised in the liver, primarily by the cytochrome P450-3A4 (CYP3A4) and 
the cytochrome P450-3A5 (CYP3A5). Tacrolimus is also considerably metabolised in the intestinal 
wall. There are several metabolites identified. Only one of these has been shown in vitro to have 
immunosuppressive activity similar to that of tacrolimus. The other metabolites have only weak or no 
immunosuppressive activity. In systemic circulation only one of the inactive metabolites is present at 
low concentrations. Therefore, metabolites do not contribute to the pharmacological activity of 
tacrolimus. 
Excretion  
Tacrolimus is a low-clearance substance. In healthy subjects, the average total body clearance 
estimated from whole blood concentrations was 2.25 l/h. In adult liver, kidney and heart transplant 
patients, values of 4.1 l/h, 6.7 l/h and 3.9 l/h, respectively, have been observed. Factors such as low 
haematocrit and protein levels, which result in an increase in the unbound fraction of tacrolimus, or 
corticosteroid-induced increased metabolism, are considered to be responsible for the higher clearance 
rates observed following transplantation. 
The half-life of tacrolimus is long and variable. In healthy subjects, the mean half-life in whole blood 
is approximately 43 hours. 
Following intravenous and oral administration of 14C-labelled tacrolimus, most of the radioactivity was 
eliminated in the faeces. Approximately 2% of the radioactivity was eliminated in the urine. Less than 
1% of unchanged tacrolimus was detected in the urine and faeces, indicating that tacrolimus is almost 
completely metabolised prior to elimination: bile being the principal route of elimination. 
20 
 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data  
The kidneys and the pancreas were the primary organs affected in toxicity studies performed in rats 
and baboons. In rats, tacrolimus caused toxic effects to the nervous system and the eyes. Reversible 
cardiotoxic effects were observed in rabbits following intravenous administration of tacrolimus. 
When tacrolimus is administered intravenously as rapid infusion/bolus injection at a dose of 0.1 to 
1.0 mg/kg, QTc prolongation has been observed in some animal species. Peak blood concentrations 
achieved with these doses were above 150 ng/mL which is more than 6-fold higher than mean peak 
concentrations observed with Advagraf in clinical transplantation. 
Embryofoetal toxicity was observed in rats and rabbits and was limited to doses that caused significant 
toxicity in maternal animals. In rats, female reproductive function including birth was impaired at 
toxic doses and the offspring showed reduced birth weights, viability and growth. 
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reduced sperm counts and motility was 
observed in rats. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1 
List of excipients  
Capsule content:  
Hypromellose 
Ethylcellulose 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate. 
Capsule shell: 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
Yellow iron oxide (E 172) 
Red iron oxide (E 172) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Gelatin. 
Printing ink (Opacode S-1-15083): 
Shellac 
Lecithin (soya) 
Simeticone 
Red iron oxide (E 172) 
Hydroxypropylcellulose. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Tacrolimus is not compatible with PVC (polyvinylchloride). Tubing, syringes and other equipment 
used to prepare a suspension of Advagraf capsule contents must not contain PVC. 
6.3 
Shelf life  
3 years. 
After opening the aluminium wrapper: 1 year 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container  
Transparent PVC/PVDC aluminium blister or unit-dose perforated blister wrapped in an aluminium 
wrapper with a desiccant containing 10 capsules per blister. 
21 
 
 
 
 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Pack sizes: 30, 50 and 100 prolonged-release hard capsules in blisters or 30×1, 50×1 and 100×1 
prolonged-release hard capsule in unit-dose perforated blisters. 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Pack sizes: 30, 50, 60 and 100 prolonged-release hard capsules in blisters or 30×1, 50×1, 60×1 and 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsule in unit-dose perforated blisters. 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Pack sizes: 30, 50 and 100 prolonged-release hard capsules in blisters or 30×1, 50×1 and 100×1 
prolonged-release hard capsules in unit-dose perforated blisters. 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Pack sizes: 30, 50 and 100 prolonged-release hard capsules in blisters or 30×1, 50×1 and 100×1 
prolonged-release hard capsules in unit-dose perforated blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Based on immunosuppressive effects of tacrolimus, inhalation or direct contact with skin or mucous 
membranes by the formulations for injection, powder or granule contained in tacrolimus products 
should be avoided during preparation. If such contact occurs, wash the skin and flush the affected eye 
or eyes. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
EU/1/07/387/001 
EU/1/07/387/002 
EU/1/07/387/009 
EU/1/07/387/014 
EU/1/07/387/015 
EU/1/07/387/016 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
EU/1/07/387/003 
EU/1/07/387/004 
EU/1/07/387/005 
EU/1/07/387/006 
EU/1/07/387/017 
EU/1/07/387/018 
EU/1/07/387/019 
EU/1/07/387/020 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
EU/1/07/387/011 
EU/1/07/387/012 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/07/387/013 
EU/1/07/387/021 
EU/1/07/387/022 
EU/1/07/387/023 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
EU/1/07/387/007 
EU/1/07/387/008 
EU/1/07/387/010 
EU/1/07/387/024 
EU/1/07/387/025 
EU/1/07/387/026 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 23 April 2007  
Date of latest renewal: 13 April 2012 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
24 
 
 
  
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Astellas Ireland Co. Ltd 
Killorglin  
Co. Kerry, V93FC86 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided 
for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-
portal.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
-  At the request of the European Medicines Agency, 
-  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
25 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 0.5 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and traces of soya lecithin. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Once daily. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
28 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/387/001 30 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/002 50 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/009 100 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/014 30×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/015 50×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/016 100×1 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Advagraf 0.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
29 
 
 
 
SN:  
NN: 
30 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2.  NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5.  OTHER 
Once daily. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER WRAPPERS 
ALUMINIUM WRAPPER Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules (30, 50, 100 
Aluminium Wrapper) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
Oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
1001 prolonged-release hard capsules 
6. 
OTHER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Once daily. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 1 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and traces of soya lecithin. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
60 prolonged-release hard capsules 
60×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Once daily. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
33 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/387/003 30 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/004 50 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/005 60 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/006 100 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/017 30×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/018 50×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/019 60×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/020 100×1 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Advagraf 1 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
34 
 
  
  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN: 
35 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2.  NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5.  OTHER 
Once daily. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER WRAPPERS 
ALUMINIUM WRAPPER Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules (30, 50, 60, 100 
Aluminium Wrapper) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
Oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
60 prolonged-release hard capsules 
60×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
6. 
OTHER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Once daily. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 3 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and traces of soya lecithin. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Once daily. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
38 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/387/011 30 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/012 50 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/013 100 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/021 30×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/022 50×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/023 100×1 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Advagraf 3 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
39 
 
  
  
SN:  
NN: 
40 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2.  NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5.  OTHER 
Once daily. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER WRAPPERS 
ALUMINIUM WRAPPER Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules (30, 50, 100 
Aluminium Wrapper) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
Oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
6. 
OTHER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Once daily. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 5 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and traces of soya lecithin. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Once daily. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
43 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/387/007 30 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/008 50 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/010 100 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/024 30×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/025 50×1 capsules 
EU/1/07/387/026 100×1 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Advagraf 5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
44 
 
  
  
SN:  
NN: 
45 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
2.  NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
3.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5.  OTHER 
Once daily. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER WRAPPERS 
ALUMINIUM WRAPPER Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules (30, 50, 100 
Aluminium Wrapper) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
Oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Use all the capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping and before the expiry date. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 prolonged-release hard capsules 
30×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50 prolonged-release hard capsules 
50×1 prolonged-release hard capsules 
100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
1001 prolonged-release hard capsules 
6. 
OTHER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Once daily. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules 
Tacrolimus 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
- 
-  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
- 
even if their signs and illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Advagraf is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Advagraf 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Advagraf 
Possible side effects 
How to store Advagraf 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Advagraf is and what it is used for 
Advagraf contains the active substance tacrolimus. It is an immunosuppressant. Following your organ 
transplant (liver, kidney), your body’s immune system will try to reject the new organ. Advagraf is 
used to control your body’s immune response, enabling your body to accept the transplanted organ.  
You may also be given Advagraf for an ongoing rejection of your transplanted liver, kidney, heart or 
other organ when any previous treatment you were taking was unable to control this immune response 
after your transplantation. 
Advagraf is used in adults. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Advagraf 
Do not take Advagraf 
- 
if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to tacrolimus or any of the other ingredients of Advagraf (see 
section 6). 
if you are allergic to sirolimus or to any macrolide-antibiotic (e.g., erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin). 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Prograf and Advagraf both contain the active substance, tacrolimus. However, Advagraf is taken once 
daily, whereas Prograf is taken twice daily. This is because Advagraf capsules allow for a prolonged 
release (more slow release over a longer period) of tacrolimus. Advagraf and Prograf are not 
interchangeable. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Advagraf: 
- 
- 
- 
if you have diarrhoea for more than one day. 
if you are taking any medicines mentioned below under ‘Other medicines and Advagraf’.  
if you have or have had liver problems. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
if you feel strong abdominal pain accompanied or not with other symptoms, such as chills, 
fever, nausea or vomiting. 
if you have an alteration of the electrical activity of your heart called “QT prolongation”.  
if you have or have had damage to the smallest blood vessels, known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy/thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/haemolytic uraemic syndrome. Tell 
your doctor if you develop fever, bruising under the skin (which may appear as red dots), 
unexplained tiredness, confusion, yellowing of the skin or eyes, reduced urine output, vision 
loss and seizures (see section 4). When tacrolimus is taken together with sirolimus or 
everolimus, the risk of developing these symptoms may increase. 
Please avoid taking any herbal remedies, e.g., St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or any other 
herbal products as this may affect the effectiveness and the dose of Advagraf that you need to receive. 
If in doubt please consult your doctor prior to taking any herbal products or remedies. 
Your doctor may need to adjust your dose of Advagraf. 
You should keep in regular contact with your doctor. From time to time, your doctor may need to do 
blood, urine, heart, eye tests, to set the right dose of Advagraf.  
You should limit your exposure to the sun and UV (ultraviolet) light whilst taking Advagraf. This is 
because immunosuppressants could increase the risk of skin cancer. Wear appropriate protective 
clothing and use a sunscreen with a high sun protection factor.  
Precaution for handling: 
Direct contact with any part of your body like your skin or eyes, or breathing in of injection solutions, 
powder or granules contained in tacrolimus products should be avoided during preparation. If such 
contact occurs, wash the skin and eyes. 
Children and adolescents 
The use of Advagraf is not recommended in children and adolescents under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Advagraf 
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, 
including medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal preparations.  
It is not recommended that Advagraf is taken with ciclosporin (another medicine used for the 
prevention of transplant organ rejection). 
If you need to attend a doctor other than your transplant specialist, tell the doctor that you are 
taking tacrolimus. Your doctor may need to consult your transplant specialist if you should use 
another medicine that could increase or decrease your tacrolimus blood level. 
Advagraf blood levels can be affected by other medicines you take, and blood levels of other 
medicines can be affected by taking Advagraf, which may require interruption, an increase or a 
decrease in Advagraf dose.  
Some patients have experienced increases in tacrolimus blood levels while taking other medicines. 
This could lead to serious side effects, such as kidney problems, nervous system problems, and heart 
rhythm disturbances (see section 4).  
An effect on the Advagraf blood levels may occur very soon after starting the use of another medicine, 
therefore frequent continued monitoring of your Advagraf blood level may be needed within the first 
few days of starting another medicine and frequently while treatment with the other medicine 
continues. Some other medicines may cause tacrolimus blood levels to decrease, which could increase 
the risk of rejecting the transplanted organ. In particular, you should tell your doctor if you are taking 
or have recently taken medicines like: 
- 
antifungal medicines and antibiotics, particularly so-called macrolide antibiotics, used to treat 
infections e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clotrimazole, isavuconazole, miconazole, caspofungin, telithromycin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin, azithromycin, rifampicin, rifabutin, isoniazid and flucloxacillin 
letermovir, used to prevent illness caused by CMV (human cytomegalovirus) 
HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir), the booster medicine cobicistat, 
and  combination  tablets,  or  HIV  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine) used to treat HIV infection 
HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., telaprevir, boceprevir, the combination 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with or without dasabuvir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, and 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir), used to treat hepatitis C infection 
nilotinib and imatinib, idelalisib, ceritinib, crizotinib, apalutamide, enzalutamide, or mitotane 
(used to treat certain cancers) 
mycophenolic acid, used to suppress the immune system to prevent transplant rejection 
medicines for stomach ulcer and acid reflux (e.g., omeprazole, lansoprazole or cimetidine) 
antiemetics, used to treat nausea and vomiting (e.g., metoclopramide) 
cisapride or the antacid magnesium-aluminium-hydroxide, used to treat heartburn 
the contraceptive pill or other hormone treatments with ethinylestradiol, hormone treatments with 
danazol 
medicines  used  to  treat  high  blood  pressure  or  heart  problems  (e.g.,  nifedipine,  nicardipine, 
diltiazem and verapamil) 
anti-arrhythmic drugs (amiodarone) used to control arrhythmia (uneven beating of the heart) 
medicines known as “statins” used to treat elevated cholesterol and triglycerides 
carbamazepine, phenytoin or phenobarbital, used to treat epilepsy 
metamizole, used to treat pain and fever 
the corticosteroids prednisolone and methylprednisolone, belonging to the class of corticosteroids 
used to treat inflammations or suppress the immune system (e.g., in transplant rejection) 
nefazodone, used to treat depression 
herbal preparations containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or extracts of Schisandra 
sphenanthera 
cannabidiol (uses amongst others include treatment of seizures). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor if you are receiving treatment for hepatitis C. The drug treatment for hepatitis C may 
change your liver function and may affect blood levels of tacrolimus. Tacrolimus blood levels may fall 
or may increase depending on the medicines prescribed for hepatitis C. Your doctor may need to 
closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels and make necessary adjustments of Advagraf dose after you 
start treatment for hepatitis C. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking or need to take ibuprofen (used to treat fever, inflammation and 
pain), antibiotics (cotrimoxazole, vancomycin, or aminoglycoside antibiotics such as gentamicin), 
amphotericin B (used to treat fungal infections) or antivirals (used to treat viral infections e.g. 
acyclovir, ganciclovir, cidofovir, foscarnet). These may worsen kidney or nervous system problems 
when taken together with Advagraf. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking sirolimus or everolimus. When tacrolimus is taken together with 
sirolimus or everolimus, the risk of developing thrombotic microangiopathy, thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura, and haemolytic uraemic syndrome may increase (see section 4). 
Your doctor also needs to know if you are taking potassium supplements or certain diuretics used for 
heart failure, hypertension and kidney disease, (e.g. amiloride, triamterene, or spironolactone), or the 
antibiotics trimethoprim or cotrimoxazole that may increase levels of potassium in your blood, non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, e.g. ibuprofen) used for fever, inflammation and pain, 
anticoagulants (blood thinners), or oral medicines for diabetes, while you take Advagraf. 
If you need to have any vaccinations, please tell your doctor before. 
Advagraf with food and drink  
Avoid grapefruit (also as juice) while on treatment with Advagraf, since it can affect its levels in the 
blood. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are, think you might be or are planning to become pregnant, ask your doctor for advice before 
using Advagraf. 
Advagraf passes into breast milk. Therefore, you should not breast-feed whilst using Advagraf. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines if you feel dizzy or sleepy, or have problems seeing clearly 
after taking Advagraf. These effects are more frequent if you also drink alcohol. 
Advagraf contains lactose, sodium and lecithin (soya) 
Advagraf contains lactose (milk sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an 
intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
The printing ink used on Advagraf capsules contains soya lecithin. If you are allergic to peanut or 
soya, talk to your doctor to determine whether you should use this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Advagraf 
Always take Advagraf exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. This medicine should only be prescribed to you by a doctor with 
experience in the treatment of transplant patients. 
Make sure that you receive the same tacrolimus medicine every time you collect your prescription, 
unless your transplant specialist has agreed to change to a different tacrolimus medicine. This 
medicine should be taken once a day. If the appearance of this medicine is not the same as usual, or if 
dosage instructions have changed, speak to your doctor or pharmacist as soon as possible to make sure 
that you have the right medicine. 
The starting dose to prevent the rejection of your transplanted organ will be determined by your doctor 
calculated according to your body weight. Initial daily doses just after transplantation will generally be 
in the range of  
0.10 – 0.30 mg per kg body weight per day 
depending on the transplanted organ. When treating rejection, these same doses may be used. 
Your dose depends on your general condition and on which other immunosuppressive medication you 
are taking.  
Following the initiation of your treatment with Advagraf, frequent blood tests will be taken by your 
doctor to define the correct dose. Afterwards regular blood tests by your doctor will be required to 
define the correct dose and to adjust the dose from time to time. Your doctor will usually reduce your 
Advagraf dose once your condition has stabilised. Your doctor will tell you exactly how many 
capsules to take. 
You will need to take Advagraf every day as long as you need immunosuppression to prevent rejection 
of your transplanted organ. You should keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
Advagraf is taken orally once daily in the morning. Take Advagraf on an empty stomach or 
2 to 3 hours after a meal. Wait at least 1 hour until the next meal. Take the capsules immediately 
following removal from the blister. The capsules should be swallowed whole with a glass of water. Do 
not swallow the desiccant contained in the foil wrapper. 
If you take more Advagraf than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too much Advagraf, contact your doctor or nearest hospital emergency 
department immediately.  
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Advagraf 
If you have forgotten to take your Advagraf capsules in the morning, take them as soon as possible on 
the same day. Do not take a double dose the next morning. 
If you stop taking Advagraf 
Stopping your treatment with Advagraf may increase the risk of rejection of your transplanted organ. 
Do not stop your treatment unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Advagraf can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Advagraf reduces your body’s defense mechanism (immune system), which will not be as good at 
fighting infections. Therefore, you may be more prone to infections while you are taking Advagraf. 
Some infections could be serious or fatal and may include infections caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, 
parasites, or other infections.  
Tell your doctor immediately if you get signs of an infection including: 
-  Fever, cough, sore throat, feeling weak or generally unwell 
-  Memory loss, trouble thinking, difficulty walking or loss of vision - these may be due to a very 
rare, serious brain infection, which can be fatal (Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy 
or PML) 
Severe effects may occur, including allergic and anaphylactic reactions. Benign and malignant tumours 
have been reported following Advagraf treatment. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have or suspect you may have any of the following serious 
side effects: 
Serious common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
-  Gastrointestinal perforation: strong abdominal pain accompanied or not with other symptoms, 
such as chills, fever, nausea or vomiting. 
Insufficient function of your transplanted organ. 
- 
-  Blurred vision. 
Serious uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
-  Thrombotic microangiopathy (damage to the smallest blood vessels) including haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome, a condition with the following symptoms: low or no urine output (acute 
renal failure), extreme tiredness, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) and abnormal 
bruising or bleeding and signs of infection.  
Serious rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
-  Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura: a condition involving damage to the smallest blood 
vessels and characterised by fever and bruising under the skin that may appear as red pinpoint 
dots, with or without unexplained extreme tiredness, confusion, yellowing of the skin or eyes 
(jaundice), with symptoms of acute renal failure (low or no urine output), vision loss and 
seizures.  
-  Toxic epidermal necrolysis: erosion and blistering of skin or mucous membranes, red swollen 
skin that can detach in large parts of the body.  
-  Blindness.  
Serious very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
-  Stevens-Johnson syndrome: unexplained widespread skin pain, facial swelling, serious illness 
with blistering of skin, mouth, eyes and genitals, hives, tongue swelling, red or purple skin 
rash that spreads, skin shedding.   
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Torsades de pointes: change in the heart frequency that can be accompanied or not of 
symptoms, such as chest pain (angina), faint, vertigo or nausea, palpitations (feeling the 
heartbeat) and difficulty breathing. 
Serious side effects – frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
-  Opportunistic infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal): prolonged diarrhea, fever and 
sore throat.  
-  Benign and malignant tumours have been reported following treatment as a result of 
immunosuppression.  
-  Cases of pure red cell aplasia (a very severe reduction in red blood cell counts), haemolytic 
anaemia (decreased number of red blood cells due to abnormal breakdown accompanied with 
tiredness) and febrile neutropenia (a decrease in the type of white blood cells which fight 
infection, accompanied by fever) have been reported. It is not known exactly how often these 
side effects occur. You may have no symptoms or depending on the severity of the condition, 
you may feel: fatigue, apathy, abnormal paleness of the skin (pallor), shortness of breath, 
dizziness, headache, chest pain and coldness in hands and feet. 
-  Cases of agranulocytosis (a severely lowered number of white blood cells accompanied with 
ulcers in the mouth, fever and infection(s)). You may have no symptoms or you may feel 
sudden fever, rigors and sore throat. 
-  Allergic and anaphylactic reactions with the following symptoms: a sudden itchy rash (hives), 
swelling of hands, feet, ankle, face, lips, mouth or throat (which may cause difficulty in 
swallowing or breathing) and you may feel you are going to faint.  
-  Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES): headache, confusion, mood changes, 
fits, and disturbances of your vision. These could be signs of a disorder known as posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome, which has been reported in some patients treated with 
tacrolimus. 
-  Optic neuropathy (abnormality of the optic nerve): problems with your vision such as blurred 
vision, changes in colour vision, difficulty in seeing detail or restriction of your field of vision.  
The side effects listed below may also occur after receiving Advagraf and could be serious: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Increased blood sugar, diabetes mellitus, increased potassium in the blood 
Difficulty in sleeping 
Trembling, headache 
Increased blood pressure 
Liver function tests abnormal 
Diarrhoea, nausea 
Kidney problems 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Reduction in blood cell counts (platelets, red or white blood cells), increase in white blood cell 
counts, changes in red blood cell counts (seen in blood tests)  
Reduced magnesium, phosphate, potassium, calcium or sodium in the blood, fluid overload, 
increased uric acid or lipids in the blood, decreased appetite, increased acidity of the blood, 
other changes in the blood salts (seen in blood tests) 
Anxiety symptoms, confusion and disorientation, depression, mood changes, nightmare, 
hallucination, mental disorders 
Fits, disturbances in consciousness, tingling and numbness (sometimes painful) in the hands and 
feet, dizziness, impaired writing ability, nervous system disorders 
Increased sensitivity to light, eye disorders 
Ringing sound in your ears 
Reduced blood flow in the heart vessels, faster heartbeat 
Bleeding, partial or complete blocking of blood vessels, reduced blood pressure 
Shortness in breath, changes in the lung tissue, collection of liquid around the lung, 
inflammation of the pharynx, cough, flu-like symptoms 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammations or ulcers causing abdominal pain or diarrhoea, bleeding in the stomach, 
inflammations or ulcers in the mouth, collection of fluid in the belly, vomiting, abdominal 
pains, indigestion, constipation, flatulence, bloating, loose stools, stomach problems 
Bile duct disorders, yellowing of the skin due to liver problems, liver tissue damage and 
inflammation of the liver 
Itching, rash, hair loss, acne, increased sweating 
Pain in joints, limbs, back and feet, muscle spasms 
Insufficient function of the kidneys, reduced production of urine, impaired or painful urination 
General weakness, fever, collection of fluid in your body, pain and discomfort, increase of the 
enzyme alkaline phosphatase in your blood, weight gain, feeling of temperature disturbed 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Changes in blood clotting, reduction in the number of all types of blood cells (seen in blood 
tests) 
Dehydration 
Reduced protein or sugar in the blood, increased phosphate in the blood 
Coma, bleeding in the brain, stroke, paralysis, brain disorder, speech and language 
abnormalities, memory problems 
Opacity of the eye lens  
Impaired hearing 
Irregular heartbeat, stop of heartbeat, reduced performance of your heart, disorder of the heart 
muscle, enlargement of the heart muscle, stronger heartbeat, abnormal ECG, heart rate and 
pulse abnormal 
Blood clot in a vein of a limb, shock 
Difficulties in breathing, respiratory tract disorders, asthma 
Obstruction of the gut, increased blood level of the enzyme amylase, reflux of stomach content 
in your throat, delayed emptying of the stomach 
Inflammation of the skin, burning sensation in the sunlight 
Joint disorders 
Inability to urinate, painful menstruation and abnormal menstrual bleeding 
Multiple organ failure, flu-like illness, increased sensitivity to heat and cold, feeling of pressure 
on your chest, jittery or abnormal feeling, increase of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase in your 
blood, weight loss 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Small bleedings in your skin due to blood clots 
- 
Increased muscle stiffness 
- 
Deafness 
- 
Collection of fluid around the heart 
- 
Acute breathlessness 
- 
Cyst formation in your pancreas 
- 
Problems with blood flow in the liver 
- 
Increased hairiness 
- 
Thirst, fall, feeling of tightness in your chest, decreased mobility, ulcer 
- 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Muscular weakness 
Abnormal heart scan 
Liver failure 
Painful urination with blood in the urine 
Increase of fat tissue 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
55 
 
 
 
 
  
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Advagraf 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use Advagraf after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “Exp”. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Use all the prolonged-release hard capsules within 1 year of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Advagraf contains 
- 
The active substance is tacrolimus. 
Each capsule of Advagraf 0.5 mg contains 0.5 mg of tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Each capsule of Advagraf 1 mg contains 1 mg of tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Each capsule of Advagraf 3 mg contains 3 mg of tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Each capsule of Advagraf 5 mg contains 5 mg of tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
- 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule content: Hypromellose, ethylcellulose, lactose, magnesium stearate. 
Capsule shell: Titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E 172), red iron oxide (E 172), 
sodium laurilsulfate, gelatin. 
Printing ink: Shellac, lecithin (soya), simeticone, red iron oxide (E 172), 
hydroxypropylcellulose. 
What Advagraf looks like and contents of the pack 
Advagraf 0.5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules are hard gelatin capsules imprinted in red with 
“0.5 mg” on the light yellow capsule cap and “ 647” on the orange capsule body, containing white 
powder. 
Advagraf 0.5 mg is supplied in blisters or perforated unit-dose blisters containing 10 capsules within a 
protective foil wrapper, including a desiccant. Packs of 30, 50 and 100 prolonged-release capsules are 
available in blisters and packs of 30×1, 50×1 and 100×1 prolonged-release capsules are available in 
perforated unit-dose blisters. 
Advagraf 1 mg prolonged-release hard capsules are hard gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “1 mg” 
on the white capsule cap and “ 677” on the orange capsule body, containing white powder. 
Advagraf 1 mg is supplied in blisters or perforated unit-dose blisters containing 10 capsules within a 
protective foil wrapper, including a desiccant. Packs of 30, 50, 60 and 100 prolonged-release capsules 
are available in blisters and packs of 30×1, 50×1, 60×1 and 100×1 prolonged-release capsules are 
available in perforated unit-dose blisters. 
Advagraf 3 mg prolonged-release hard capsules are hard gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “3 mg” 
on the orange capsule cap and “ 637” on the orange capsule body, containing white powder. 
Advagraf 3 mg is supplied in blisters or perforated unit-dose blisters containing 10 capsules within a 
protective foil wrapper, including a desiccant. Packs of 30, 50 and 100 prolonged-release capsules are 
available in blisters and packs of 30×1, 50×1 and 100×1 prolonged-release capsules are available in 
perforated unit-dose blisters. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules are hard gelatin capsules imprinted in red with “5 mg” 
on the greyish red capsule cap and “ 687” on the orange capsule body, containing white powder. 
Advagraf 5 mg is supplied in blisters or perforated unit-dose blisters containing 10 capsules within a 
protective foil wrapper, including a desiccant. Packs of 30, 50 and 100 prolonged-release hard capsules 
are available in blisters and packs of 30×1, 50×1 and 100×1 prolonged-release capsules are available 
in perforated unit-dose blisters.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer: 
Astellas Ireland Co., Ltd. 
Killorglin, County Kerry, V93FC86 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Astellas Pharma B.V. Branch 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 5580710 
България 
Астелас Фарма ЕООД  
Teл.: + 359 2 862 53 72 
Česká republika 
Astellas Pharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 221 401 500 
Danmark 
Astellas Pharma a/s 
Tlf: + 45 43 430355 
Deutschland 
Astellas Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0)89 454401 
Eesti 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +372 6 056 014 
Ελλάδα 
Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 8189900 
España 
Astellas Pharma S.A. 
Tel: + 34 91 4952700 
Lietuva 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +370 37 408 681 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Astellas Pharma B.V. Branch 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 5580710 
Magyarország 
Astellas Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 577 8200 
Malta 
Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE 
Tel: +30 210 8189900 
Nederland 
Astellas Pharma B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0)71 5455745 
Norge 
Astellas Pharma  
Tlf: + 47 66 76 46 00 
Österreich 
Astellas Pharma Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 8772668 
Polska 
Astellas Pharma Sp.z.o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 225451 111 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Astellas Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 55917500 
Hrvatska 
Astellas d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 670 01 02 
Ireland 
Astellas Pharma Co. Ltd. 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4671555 
Ísland 
Vistor hf 
Sími: + 354 535 7000  
Italia 
Astellas Pharma S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)2 921381 
Κύπρος 
Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 210 8189900 
Portugal 
Astellas Farma, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 4401320 
România 
S.C. Astellas Pharma SRL  
Tel: +40 (0)21 361 04 95 
Slovenija 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0) 14011 400 
Slovenská republika 
Astellas Pharma s.r.o.  
Tel: +421 2 4444 2157 
Suomi/Finland 
Astellas Pharma  
Puh/Tel: + 358 9 85606000 
Sverige 
Astellas Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)40-650 15 00 
Latvija 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o.                                                                                                                       
Tel: + 371 67 619365                                            
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Astellas Pharma Co., Limited 
Free call from Northern Ireland: 0800 783 5018 
International number: +353 (0)1 4671555 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
