22 February 2007 
EMA/426693/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment Report 
Aerius 
International Nonproprietary Name: desloratadine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/313/X/32 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Disclaimer:  
The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new corporate identity in 
December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently produced by the Agency. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRODUCT INFORMATION 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Aerius 
Applicant: 
Schering-Plough Europe 
Active substance: 
Desloratadine 
International Nonproprietary 
Name/Common Name: 
Desloratadine 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
R06A X27 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Aerius is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated 
with: 
- allergic rhinitis (AR) 
- chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Orodispersible tablets  
Strength(s): 
2.5 mg and 5 mg 
Route(s) of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
blister (PVC/OPA/alu) 
Package size(s): 
5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 18, 20, 30, 50, 60, 90 and 100 tablets  
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 2/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 4 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 4 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................................... 4 
2 
GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION .................. 5 
2.1  Manufacturing authorisation holder ........................................................................................ 5 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use................................................................ 5 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 5 
Other conditions ....................................................................................................................... 5 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to 
be implemented by the Member States. ................................................................................... 5 
2.6 
Follow-up measures following the Marketing Authorisation Error! Bookmark not defined. 
3 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 5 
3.1 
3.2 
3.3 
3.4 
3.5 
Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................ 9 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 18 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 3/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Schering  Plough  Europe  submitted  on    1  June  2006  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Aerius 2.5 and 5 mg orodispersible tablets 
under Annex II, point 2 iv to Commission  Regulation  (EC) No  1085/2003. 
Schering Plough Europe is already the Marketing Authorisation Holder of Aerius 5 mg film coated tablets 
on 15/01/2001 (EU/1/00/160/001-013), Aerius 5 mg oral lyophilisate on 16/04/2002 (EU/1/00/160/022-
034) and of Aerius 0.5 mg/ml syrup on 16/04/2002 (EU/1/00/160/014-021) under Part A of the Annex to 
Council Regulation No. (EEC) 2309/93 of 22 July 1993, as amended. 
Aerius is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with: 
- allergic rhinitis (AR) 
- chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Dr. Pieter Neels 
Co-Rapporteur:  Not applicable 
CHMP Peer reviewer(s): Not applicable 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 1 June 2006 
The procedure started on 21 June 2006. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated 
18 September 2006.  
to  all  CHMP  members  on 
During  the  meeting  on  16-18  October  2006,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions  to  be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the 
applicant on  18 October 2006 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
16 November 2006. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Report  on  the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions to all 
CHMP members on  12 January 07. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22-24  January  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  list  of  outstanding  issues  on 
1 February 2007. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of outstanding issues 
to all CHMP members on 9 February 2007. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 4/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
During the meeting on 19-22 February 2007, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Aerius  on  22  February  2007.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking 
on 
on 
20 February 2007. 
follow-up  measures 
post-authorisation 
fulfilled 
the 
be 
to 
2  GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
2.1  Manufacturing authorisation holder  
2.2  Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
2.3  Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product 
Not applicable 
2.4  Other conditions 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The submitted Pharmacovigilance System is in line with the pharmacovigilance work developed so far by 
the MAH and in compliance with current requirements. 
Risk Management plan 
The Committee agreed that there was no need to request a Risk Management Plan with respect to these 
line extensions.  
2.5  Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable 
3 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
3.1 
Introduction 
Desloratadine, the major active metabolite of loratadine, is a long-acting tricyclic antihistamine with 
selective peripheral histamine H1-receptor antagonistic activity.  Similar to the parent drug loratadine, 
desloratadine has been investigated and shown to possess peripheral antihistaminic effects with no 
sedative or other central nervous system effects at the clinically recommended dose.  Desloratadine was 
developed for its more favourable pharmacokinetic profile than that of loratadine, exhibiting less 
extensive first-pass metabolism and a longer plasma elimination half-life. 
This application is an extension to the existing marketing authorisation and it includes the addition 2.5 mg 
and 5 mg orodispersible tablets in the already approved desloratadine formulations. The 2.5 mg 
orodispersible tablets are intended for paediatric patients between 6 and 11 years old. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 5/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Currently, desloratadine is available in the following formulations: 5 mg film-coated tablets, 0.5 mg/ml 
syrup and 5 mg oral lyophilisate formulations.  
3.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Desloratadine  orodipersible  tablets  is  an  additional  pharmaceutical  form  to  the  currently  approved 
desloratadine formulations. Two strengths of the product have been developed containing 2.5 mg and 5 
mg of the active substance respectively.  
Other  ingredients  include  mannitol,  crospovidone,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  aspartame,  flavour, 
colorant,  sodium  hydrogen  carbonate,  citric  acid  anhydrous,  magnesium  stearate,  colloidal  silicon 
dioxide, pregelatinised starch, sodium starch glycolate, basic butylated methacrylate copolymer. 
All  excipients  used  in  the  product  are  of  non-animal  origin  and  comply  with  their  corresponding 
European Pharmacopoeia monographs. 
Active Substance 
The drug substance used in the manufacture of desloratadine orodispersible tablets is the same and has 
identical specifications with the one used in the already approved strengths.  
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The main objectives of the development were to produce tablets with acceptable taste masking, fast 
disintegration times and appropriate content uniformity. The appropriate content uniformity is achieved 
by granulating part of the ingredients and setting in process controls for the particle size distribution of 
the granules. Finally fast disintegration times are ensured by the careful selection of the excipients used in 
the final blend and a low tablet hardness target. As a result of the latter, the tablets are relatively friable 
and require immediate packaging into blisters to avoid physical damage. Both tablet strengths are dose 
proportional and obtained from a common final blend. 
Due to the mildly effervescent properties of the drug product a moisture resistant packaging with a rigid 
structure has been used to protect the orodispersible tablets during transportation and use. Blister cells are 
cold-formed 
laminate,  consisting  of 
laminate.  Another 
Paper/Polyester/Al foil/Heat Seal Coating, is then used for sealing the blister.  
foil/Polyamide/PCV 
from  a  PVC/Al 
During  the  manufacturing  process  development  different  types  of  granulation  and  milling  have  been 
investigated in order to select the ones that lead to acceptable granule particle size distribution and thus 
acceptable content uniformity. In addition different holding times for the intermediates and the final blend 
have been studied and their acceptability has been confirmed in long-term stability studies. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
No materials that might include adventitious agents are included in this product. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is standard granulation process and consists of the following steps: high shear 
granulation, partial drying, wet milling, final drying, milling, coating and sieving of the coated granules. 
Then the granules are blended with the rest of the excipients, compressed into tablets and packaged. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 6/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All critical process parameters have been identified and controlled by appropriate in process controls. The 
validation  reports  from  3  production  scale  batches  for  each  strength  demonstrate  that  the  process  is 
reproducible  and  provides  a  medicinal  product  that  complies  with  the  in-process  and  finished  product 
specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specification  for  the  finished  product  at  release  and  shelf  life  includes  tests  for  appearance, 
identification (TLC and HPLC), assay (HPLC), content uniformity (Ph. Eur.), dissolution, disintergration 
time,  degradation  products  (HPLC),  loss  on  drying,  hardness and microbial quality (Ph. Eur.). All tests 
included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  on  3  pilot  scale  batches  for  each  strength  according  to  the  ICH 
requirements. Samples were stored at 25oC/60 % RH for 24 months and in 40oC/75 % RH for 6 months. 
In  addition,  one  product-scale  batch  of  both  the  2.5-mg  and  the  5.0-mg  strength  was  monitored  for  18 
months  at  25°C/60%RH  and  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH.  All  batches  were  produced  by  the  proposed 
manufacturer and packed in the packaging intended for marketing.  
The  parameters  tested  were  the  ones  included  in  the  proposed  specifications.  In  all  cases  the  stability 
results  presented  were  satisfactory  and  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  for  the  commercially  packaged 
product under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Furthermore one of the 2.5-mg pilot batches has been subjected to photostability testing in accordance 
with ICH requirements. There were no significant differences observed between the exposed sample and 
the dark control. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  of  the  same  quality  as  the  one  used  in  the  currently  approved  formulations. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The excipients are commonly used in these types of formulations and 
comply with Ph. Eur. requirements. The packaging material is commonly used and well documented. The 
manufacturing process of the finished product is a standard process that has been adequately described. 
The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of all the important quality 
characteristics of the product, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the it should have a satisfactory 
and  uniform  clinical.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is 
chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  a  number  of  minor  unresolved  quality  issues  having  no 
impact  on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and 
committed to resolve these as Follow-Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
3.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
As  part  of  the  original  marketing  authorisation  application  (MAA),  non-clinical  studies  have  been 
performed in order to characterise pharmacological properties and toxicological profile of desloratadine 
(DL).  Non-clinical  data  specific  to  the  orodispersible  tablet  formulation  (mucosal  irritation  studies  in 
hamsters  and  dogs)  and  additional  toxicology  studies  to  complement  the  non-clinical  development 
program previously submitted aimed at supporting this line extension application. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The applicant stated that these non-clinical studies are GLP-compliant.  
•  Local tolerance 
Two studies have been performed to evaluate the mucosal irritation of DL 5 mg orodispersible tablets in 
hamsters and in dogs, respectively. 
In hamsters, irritation following application of the tablet was observed starting on day 1. On day 4, the 
mean score was 1.8 (range : 0-3) on the side of tablet application and 0 on the contralateral side. In the 
sham  control  group,  the  score  was  0  at  any  time  for  all  animals.  The  histopathological  examination 
revealed  ulcers  (5/6),  inflammation  (5/6)  and  fibroplasia  (4/6)  on  the  treated  side,  with  no  lesion  on 
contralateral side.    
In  dogs,  the  irritation  score  was  0  for  all animals at all times. Inflammatory infiltration was noticed on 
both cheeks of treated animals necropsied at the end of the dosing period, with necrosis observed on both 
cheeks of ¼ animals. In the group necropsied two weeks later, ¾ animals displayed inflammation on both 
cheeks and ¼ on none. 
•  Carcinogenicity studies 
Since  previously  conducted  loratadine  carcinogenicity  studies  on  rats and mice adequately assessed the 
carcinogenic risk for DL, no further studies were conducted at the time of the original MAA. At present, 
results  from  a  24  month  carcinogenicity  study  conducted  in  mice  are  available  and  included  in  this 
application.  
In  the  24  month  carcinogenicity  study  conducted  in  mice,  mortality  was  associated  with  intestinal 
abnormalities  (impaction,  distension,  dilation  of  large  bowel).  Body  weight  gain  was  decreased  in  the 
high  dose  groups,  but  recovered  following  discontinuation  of  DL.  These  abnormalities  could  result 
from the anticholinergic effect displayed by DL when used at high dose. No increase of tumor incidence 
was observed.  
•  Other toxicity studies  
Other  toxicology  studies  have  been  performed  with  DL  (SCH  34117)  and  the  known  impurities  and 
degradation products (DS1, DS2, SCH11334; SCH 26485, SCH357130, SCH446720 and SCH 446721). 
Those  included  3-month  and  one  month  dose  ranging  studies  in  3  different  species  i.e.  mice,  rats  and 
monkeys. Additionally, genotoxicity studies have also been performed with DL and the known impurities 
and degradation products. 
Results from these toxicology and genotoxicity studies did not raise any particular concern to the CHMP. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The environmental risk assessment has been performed for DL expected to be used by 2009. Further to 
updated  calculation  requested  by  CHMP,  the  values  were  0.3220;  0.025µg/L  and  0.008  µg/L  for  Fpen, 
PEC sw-i and PEC sw-r, respectively. The PEC sw-r is below 0.01 µg/L and no action limit is reached. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  no  further  environmental  assessment  (phase  II)  was  necessary  since  no 
relevant risk to the environment were anticipated under the conditions of the present evaluation. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Toxicological data from the mucosal irritation study performed in hamsters, raised some safety concerns. 
Although available clinical and post-marketing data (in the US) were limited for the orodispersible tablet 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 8/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
formulation, the analysis of AEs related to mucosal irritation was in overall reassuring. Nevertheless, the 
CHMP considered that close safety surveillance should be performed to investigate the clinical relevance 
of this toxicity finding.  
As  for  the  other  non  clinical  data  provided  as  complement  to  the  previously  submitted  non  clinical 
program, the CHMP considered these data to be acceptable and furthermore agreed to reflect the results 
from the 24-month carcinogenicity study in mice in the SPC.  
3.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
On  15  January  2001,  the  dose  formulation  originally  authorised  was  desloratadine  5  mg  film-coated 
tablets. Subsequently, approvals were granted for desloratadine 0.5 mg/ml syrup and desloratadine 5 mg 
oral  lyophilisate  on  16  April  2002.  The  present  extension  application  concerns  a  new  orodispersible 
formulation to be used in adults and children aged 12 years and over (5mg dose) and in children aged 6 to 
11 years old (2.5 mg dose) in the current approved indications, i.e. “relief of symptoms associated with 
allergic rhinitis (AR) and chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU).” 
The MAH referred to the already approved formulations as DL 5 mg tablet and Cardinal Reditabs tablet 
(or  Cardinal  oral  lyophilisate)  for  the  conventional  film-coated  tablet  and  the  oral  lyophilisate, 
respectively. 
The clinical development program to support this new orodispersible tablet formulation (5mg and 2.5 mg 
doses), also referred as ‘CIMA Reditabs Tablet or CIMA orodispersible tablet’ consisted of the following 
studies e.g: 
- 
- 
one pilot study P02393, single-dose, open-label, randomised, 2-way cross-over design to evaluate the 
bioequivalence  of  a  prototype  formulation  (DL  5  mg  orodispersible  tablet)  with  the  conventional 
film-coated tablet formulation (DL 5 mg ) 
one pivotal study P02721, single dose, open-label, randomised, 3-way cross-over design to evaluate  
the bioequivalence of the new orodispersible tablet formulation (CIMA DL 5mg Reditabs) with the 
oral lyophilisate formulation (Cardinal DL 5mg Reditabs) 
In addition, a pilot study P02430, multiple dose (14 days), open-label design was conducted to evaluate 
the buccal irritation of a prototype formulation (DL 5 mg orodispersible tablet). 
Previously, a number of studies to investigate the pharmacodynamics, the dose proportionality of DL and 
the influence of food have been performed and submitted to support the current approved formulations. 
The  MAH  referred  to  those  studies  to  support  the  pharmacodynamics  of  the  new  orodispersible  tablet 
formulation, the dose proportionality of DL over the range of 5mg and 20mg and the lack of food effect 
on DL bioavailability. Furthermore, the MAH referred to study P01216, previously submitted to support 
the BE of the oral lyophilisate formulation (Cardinal DL 5mg Reditabs) with both conventional tablet and 
syrup formulations, currently approved. 
In  accordance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  July  2001),  no  further  BE  study  has  been  performed  to  support  the 
additional strength (2.5mg orodispersible tablets). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 9/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Methodological aspects 
1.  Analytical methods 
-study P02393:the analysis of plasma samples for DL and 3-OH DL was performed using a validated LC-
MS/MS method with SPRI as sponsor. The calibration range for both analytes ranged from 0.025 to 10.0 
ng/mL. 
- study P02721: the analysis of the plasma concentrations of DL and 3-hydroxydesloratadine (OH DL) 
(major  metabolite)  were  performed  by  the  Department  of  Drug  metabolism  and  Pharmacokinetics  of 
Schering-Plough  Research  Institute  (SPRI)  using  validated  liquid  chromatography  with  tandem  mass 
spectrometric  method  (LC-MS/MS).  The  calibration  range  for  both  analytes  ranged  from  0.025  to  10.0 
ng/mL.  
2.  Pharmacokinetic data analysis 
In the different bioequivalence studies, statistical analysis including means and coefficients of variation 
are  provided  for  the  concentration-time  data  and  the  derived  pharmacokinetic  parameters.  The  primary 
pharmacokinetic variables of interest for the determination of bioavailability/bioequivalence comparisons 
were  log-transformed  AUC  and  Cmax.    They  were  statistically  analysed  using  a  cross-over  analysis  of 
variance ANOVA.  
In the presented tables, the PK characteristics are given as arithmetic means (CV) except for Tmax, which 
is  displayed  as  median  with  min,max  values.  For  the  PK  characteristics  of  the  different  treatments,  the 
90%  confidence  intervals  around  the  point  estimate  are  presented  based  on  a  parametric  analysis.  The 
90%  CIs  are  calculated  with  the  residual  error  (MSE)  and  associated  degrees  of  freedom  from  the 
ANOVA.  Bioequivalence  can  be  concluded  when  the  90%  CI  for  the  ratio  of  means  based  on  log-
transformed data is entirely within the predefined acceptance equivalence range of 80-125% for AUC and 
Cmax.  
Bioequivalence studies 
•  Study P02393 
Primary and secondary objectives 
To determine the bioequivalence of the CIMA DL Reditabs (rapidly-disintegrating) 5 mg tablet with the 
DL 5 mg conventional tablet under fasting conditions. 
The  secondary  objective  is  to  assess  the  taste  and  irritation  of  the  CIMA  DL  Reditabs  5  mg  tablet 
formulation.  
Study design 
The study has been performed between May 2001 and August 2001.    
The study is a randomised, single-dose, open-label, two-way, cross-over study in 20 subjects between 19 
and 42 years.  19 subjects (17 Hispanic) completed the study. One subject withdrew for reasons unrelated 
to the study.  
Test product: CIMA DL Reditabs 5 mg tablet (CIMA Labs Inc, MN, USA for Schering Plough Research 
Institute, New jersey, USA)). Batch n° 78012-057.  
Reference product: DL 5 mg oral tablet (Schering Plough Research Institute, New Jersey, USA). Batch 
n° 76728-054.   
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 10/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood samples were collected over 120 hours after each administration. Plasma concentrations of DL and 
3-OH DL were determined using a LC-MS-MS method.   
Methodology 
The  PK  parameters  were  calculated  based  on  the  concentration  versus  time  data  and  were  analysed 
statistically using an ANOVA model.   
Irritation  of  the  entire  oral  cavity  is  assessed  at  pre-dose  and  up  to  15  minutes  post-dose  for  each 
administration  of  CIMA  Reditabs.  Each  subject  rated  oral  sensations  and  pain/discomfort  and  the 
observer evaluates the presence of erythema and ulcers. 
Immediately after taking the CIMA Reditabs, questions were asked to each subject about the taste of the 
medication. 
Results 
With respect to BE, statistical results are summarised in Tables 1 and 2 below: 
Table  1.  Mean  (%CV)  pharmacokinetics  parameters  of  DL  and  3-OH  DL  following  single  dose 
administrations of 5mg rapidly-disintegrating tablet (CIMA Reditab®) and DL 5 mg tablet 
a: median (range) 
b: n=19 
c: n=18 
Table 2. Point estimate and 90% confidence intervals for AUCinf and Cmax for DL and 3-OH DL 
following single dose administrations of of 5mg rapidly-disintegrating tablet (CIMA Reditab®) and 
DL 5 mg tablet 
The 90% confidence intervals of the ratio of means are well in the acceptance range of 80-125% for AUC 
and Cmax for DL and 3-OH DL.  Bioequivalence can be concluded between DL 5 mg Reditabs tablets 
and DL 5 mg oral conventional tablets with respect to rate and extent of absorption. 
With  respect  to  the  taste  and  irritation  assessments,  there  were  no  reports  of  erythema,  oral  sensation, 
pain/discomfort or ulcers associated with CIMA DL 5 mg Reditabs and the subjects favored the taste of 
this new formulation. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Study P02721  
Primary and secondary objectives 
To evaluate the bioequivalence of CIMA DL 5 mg orally-disintegrating tablet and the Cardinal DL 5 mg 
orally  disintegrating  tablet  (oral  lyophilisate  currently  approved)  under  fasting  conditions.  The  second 
objective  is  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  water  on  the  bioavailability  (BA)  of  the  CIMA  DL  5  mg  orally 
disintegrating tablet.  
Study design 
The study is performed between January and March 2004 with Schering Plough Corporation, New Jersey, 
USA, as sponsor.   
The study is carried out according to a randomised, single-dose, open-label, three-way, cross-over design 
in  24  healthy  non-Caucasian  volunteers  between  the  age  of  18  to  45  years.  22  subjects  completed  the 
three periods of the study. Each dose administration is separated by a wash-out period of at least 10 days. 
Two  subjects  (n°  6  and  n°12)  withdrew  from  the  study  and  their  data  were  not  included  in  the  PK 
analysis.  
Based on previous studies (P01419 and P02393), the intra-subject variability in DL and 3-OH DL has 
been expected to be not more than 20% for AUC and Cmax. A power of at least 90% is expected. 
Each subject received a single dose of the CIMA DL 5 mg Reditabs (rapidly disintegrating) tablet with 
and without water and the Cardinal DL 5 mg Reditabs tablet with water. Each subject received the three 
treatments in a cross-over manner.   
Treatment A: Cardinal DL Reditabs 1 x 5 mg tablet with 240 mL of water. Batch n°2-MCR-12. (batch 
size : 294 118 tablets)  
Treatment B: CIMA DL Reditabs 1 x 5 mg tablet with 240 mL of water (CIMA Labs Inc, MN, USA). 
Batch n° 78012-122.  
Treatment C: CIMA DL Reditabs 1 x 5 mg tablet without water (CIMA Labs Inc, MN, USA). Batch n° 
78012-122. 
Blood  samples  were  collected  pre-dose  and  up  to  120  hours  after  each  administration.  Plasma 
concentrations  of  DL  and  3-OH  DL  were  determined  using  a  liquid  chromatographic-tandem  mass 
spectrometric method (LLOQ: 0.025 ng/ml).  
Methodology 
The  PK  parameters  were  calculated  based  on  the  concentration  versus  time  data  and  were  analysed 
statistically using an ANOVA model.   
Results 
With respect to BE, statistical results are summarised in Tables 3 and 4 below: 
Table 3 Mean pharmacokinetic parameters of DL and 3-OH DL in healthy adult subjects following 
single-dose of 5 mg Cardinal DL Reditabs tablet, CIMA DL Reditabs tablet administered with and 
without water 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a: Median (range) 
b: n=22 
Table  4  Point  estimates  and  90%  confidence  intervals  for  AUC  and  Cmax  for  DL  and  3-OH  DL 
following single-dose of 5 mg Cardinal DL Reditabs tablet, CIMA DL Reditabs tablet administered 
with and without water 
a: n=22 
Clinical efficacy  
No clinical efficacy studies have been performed with the new DL orodispersible tablet formulation. A 
complete program of clinical efficacy and safety data had been previously submitted to support the use of 
DL conventional tablets in the approved indications. 
•  Discussion on Pharmacokinetics and Clinical Efficacy 
In the pivotal study P02721, the 90% confidence intervals were well in the acceptance range of 80-125% 
for the primary parameters AUC0-t, AUCinf and Cmax for both desloratadine and 3-OH desloratadine. The 
median (min,max) Tmax values were similar for the both products. The test product CIMA DL Reditabs 
was well originated from a batch of at least 100 000 units (biobatch size of 294 118 tablets) which was in 
accordance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  bioavailability  and  bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, July 2001). 
The CHMP concluded that DL 5 mg orodispersible tablet (CIMA Reditabs 5 mg) was bioequivalent to the 
DL 5mg oral lyophilisate (Cardinal DL Reditabs) and DL 5 mg orodispersible tablet (CIMA  Reditabs) 
administered  with  water  was  bioequivalent  to  DL  5  mg  orodispersible  tablet (CIMA  Reditabs). In this 
study  (24  volunteers  with  12  males  and  12 females), subgroup analyses by gender showed that relative 
bioavailability of DL and 3-OH DL was similar for male and female subjects.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pilot study P02393, no evidence of oral irritation was found following single-dose administration of 
the CIMA Reditabs. All subjects found the CIMA Reditabs to have a favorable taste. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  lack  of  clinical  efficacy  studies  with  the  new  DL  orodispersible  tablet 
formulation (CIMA DL Reditabs Tablet) is acceptable since BE has been demonstrated with the approved 
DL 5mg oral lyophilisate (Cardinal DL Reditabs).  
In addition, the concern raised by CHMP over the linearity in the dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg has been 
adequately addressed by the MAH. The CHMP considered that the extrapolation of the results from the 
pivotal  BE  study  P02721  performed  with  the  5  mg  strength  can  be  made  for  the  2.5  mg  additional 
strength. 
Clinical Safety 
The safety analysis is based on the 3 phase-1 clinical studies P02721, P02430 and P02393 performed in 
healthy subjects and the post-marketing data from the US. 
From Clinical Trials 
•  Patient exposure 
Overall, 64 subjects were exposed to at least a single dose of the 5 mg orodispersible desloratadine tablet. 
Of  the  64  subjects,  20  were  exposed  to the 5 mg orodispersible desloratadine tablet for 14 consecutive 
days.  
•  Adverse events 
In  the  single-dose  Study  P02721,  2  of  the  24  subjects (8%) reported one treatment-emergent AE each.  
One  of  these  subjects  reported  pharyngitis  11  days  after  receiving  the  second  treatment  (orodispersible 
tablet with water), which was considered by the investigator to be mild.  The other subject experienced 
acute appendicitis 5 days after receiving the first treatment (orodispersible tablet with water), which led to 
her  hospitalization.    This  event  was  categorized  as  a  SAE.    Both  events  were  considered  by  the 
investigator to be non-treatment related. 
In the multiple-dose Study P02430, 9 of the 20 subjects (45%) reported at least one AE during the study.  
A total of 15 AEs were reported (13 headaches, 1 musculo-skeletal pain, 1 pharyngitis); all were mild in 
severity.  The report of pharyngitis was from one subject approximately 4½ hours post-dose on Day 9 and 
resolved on Day 10.  This AE was considered unrelated to treatment by the investigator.  Thirteen of the 
fifteen AEs were reported as being treatment-related.  No SAEs were reported.  There were no reports of 
buccal erythema, sensation, pain/discomfort, or ulcers.  No subject discontinued from the study because 
of AEs. 
In the single-dose Study P02393, 1 of the 20 subjects (5%) reported AEs during the study.  The subject 
reported  two  occurrences  of  toothache.  One of these occurrences was moderate; the other was mild in 
severity.   No treatment-related AEs were reported.  No SAEs were reported.  There were no reports of 
buccal  erythema,  sensation  and  pain/discomfort,  or  ulcers  associated  with  the  orodispersible  5  mg 
desloratadine tablet.  . 
The most common AE reported was headache, which was experienced by nine subjects (13 occurrences) 
in  the  multiple-dose  Study  P02430.  These  events  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  treatment 
related.  All other AEs were reported once or twice. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 14/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  deaths  were  reported.  One  SAE  was  reported  in  Study  P02721.  A  subject  experienced  acute 
appendicitis 5 days after receiving the first treatment (orodispersible tablet with water), which led to her 
hospitalization. This event was considered by the investigator to be non-treatment related.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 15/19 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Laboratory findings 
There were no clinically significant changes from baseline in any of the laboratory parameters evaluated. 
Although some sporadic high and low laboratory values were noted in these studies during both pre- and 
post-treatment, no pattern was evident, and none were considered to be clinically significant. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
No subject discontinued from the studies because of AEs. 
From Post-marketing experience 
The  orodispersible  tablets  (DL  RediTabs  tablets)  is  currently  marketed  only  in  the  US.  Total  patient 
exposure for patients treated with the DL RediTabs formulations from 26 June  2002 (US approval date) 
to 15 March 2006 was estimated from unit sales data provided by IMS MIDAS market research database.  
The estimated DL RediTabs Tablet exposure was 10,533,307 patient-days or 28,839 patient-years. 
During this covering period, a total of 32 AEs, including one serious adverse event (SAE) from a clinical 
trial study, were reported in 16 patients receiving DL RediTabs Tablet.  Twenty-six of the 32 AEs were 
reported in 13 patients 12 years and over, including in patients with unreported age, and the remaining six 
AEs were reported in three patients less than 12 years of age.  A summary of the AEs is provided in Table 
5. 
Table 5 Summary of Adverse Events for Desloratadine RediTabs in Patients 12 Years and 
Over, Including in Patients With Unreported Age, and in Patients Less Than 12 Years 
Body System and Preferred Term 
12 Years and Over, and 
Unreported Age 
Less Than 
12 Years 
Cardiac Disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eye Disorders 
Dry Eye 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Abdominal Pain 
Abdominal Pain Upper 
Diarrhoea 
Dry Mouth 
Dyspepsia 
Mouth Ulceration 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Malaise 
No Adverse Effect 
Nonspecific Reaction 
Infections and Infestations 
Appendicitisa 
Injury, Poisoning, and Procedural Complications 
Medication Error 
Nervous System Disorders 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia 
Memory Impairment 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
1 
1 
1 
1 
9 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
6 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
5 
1 
3 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
- 
3 
3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Page 16/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders 
Nasal Congestion 
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders 
Swelling Face 
Total 
- 
- 
1 
1 
26 
1 
1 
- 
- 
6 
a:  Appendicitis was reported as a serious adverse event in Study P02721. 
The most common AE reported was dysgeusia in patients 12 years and over, including in patients with 
unreported age, and medication error in patients under 12 years old. 
Of  the  32  AEs,  one  was  reported  as  an  SAE.    This  SAE  was  reported  in  a  39  year-old  healthy  female 
subject  in  study  P02721  who  experienced  acute  appendicitis  5  days  after  receiving  the  first  treatment 
(CIMA with water), which led to her hospitalization.  This event was considered by the investigator to be 
non-treatment related . 
•  Discussion on Clinical Safety 
No new safety signals were identified with this orodispersible tablet formulation. The CHMP noted that 
the safety data related to this new formulation were very limited. 
From clinical trials, only 64 subjects were exposed to at least a single dose and only 20 subjects received 
multiple dose treatment (14 days). The most common AE reported was headache, which was experienced 
by nine subjects (13 occurrences) in the multiple-dose study P02430.  
From  postmarketing  data,  only  combined  data  for  the  Cardinal  oral  lyophilisate  and  the  CIMA 
orodispersible tablet were available. 
However,  the  CHMP  acknowledged  that  extensive  safety  data  of  DL  are  available  from  the  current 
approved formulations. The safety profile of the DL orodispersible tablets is expected to be similar to the 
other approved formulations. 
Although available clinical and post-marketing data (in the US) were limited for the orodispersible tablet 
formulation,  the  analysis  of  AEs  related  to  mucosal  irritation  was  in  overall  reassuring.  Two  cases  of 
pharyngitis were observed. There were no reports of oral erythema, sensation, pain/discomfort, or ulcers. 
Two post-marketing cases of mouth ulceration and dry mouth were reported. 
Nevertheless, the CHMP recommended a close safety surveillance of the related AEs to investigate the 
clinical relevance of the toxicity finding. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the MAH to submit a risk management plan because this application 
concerned existing dosage range. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.5  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  the  product  is  considered  to  be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are no unresolved 
quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Previously submitted non clinical data for the current approved formulations were considered relevant to 
the  DL  5  mg  orodispersible  tablets  to  characterise  its  pharmacological  properties  and  toxicological 
profile. 
Based  on  the  submitted  non  clinical  data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  toxicological  profile  of  DL 
orodispersible  tablet  has  been  adequately  addressed.  Nevertheless,  a  concern  was  raised  related  to 
possible mucosal irritation thus the CHMP recommended a close safety surveillance of the related AEs to 
investigate the clinical relevance of this toxicity finding.  
As  for  the  other  non  clinical  data  provided  as  complement  to  the  previously  submitted  non  clinical 
program, the CHMP considered these data to be acceptable and furthermore agreed to reflect the results 
from the 24-month carcinogenicity study in the SPC.  
Efficacy 
The proposed DL 5mg orodispersible tablet has demonstrated bioequivalence (BE) with the approved DL 
5mg oral lyophilisate. Based on the BE results and the previously submitted data in support of the clinical 
efficacy of DL oral formulations already approved, the CHMP considered that a similar efficacy profile is 
expected with DL orodispersible tablet in the approved indications.  
Furthermore, to support the 2.5 mg additional strength for the orodispersible tablet, the extrapolation of 
the  BE  results  performed  with  the  5  mg  strength  was  in  accordance  Note  for  Guidance  on  the 
Investigation  of  bioavailability  and  bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  July  2001)  and  was 
therefore considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Safety 
The  safety  profile  of  the  DL  orodispersible  tablets  is  expected  to  be  similar  to  the  other  approved 
formulations. Nevertheless, the CHMP recommended a close safety surveillance of the related oral AEs to 
investigate the clinical relevance of the toxicity finding. 
User Consultation 
Results of the readability testing have been submitted and two minor corrections have been introduced in 
the Package Leaflet. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that:  
 
 routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Recommendation 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Aerius 2.5 and 5 mg orodispersible tablets in the relief of symptoms 
associated with: 
- 
- 
allergic rhinitis (AR) 
chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of marketing authorisation. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/426693/2014 
Page 19/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
