EMA/817144/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000772 
EPAR summary for the public 
Aerinaze 
Desloratadine/pseudoephedrine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Aerinaze. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Aerinaze. 
What is Aerinaze? 
Aerinaze is a medicine containing the active substances desloratadine (2.5 mg) and pseudoephedrine 
(120 mg). It is available as blue and white modified-release tablets. ‘Modified-release’ means that the 
tablets have been made to allow one of the active substances to be released immediately and the 
other one released over a few hours. 
What is Aerinaze used for? 
Aerinaze is used to treat the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis (hayfever, inflammation of the 
nasal passages caused by an allergy to pollen) in patients who have nasal congestion (a blocked nose). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Aerinaze used? 
In adults and adolescents over 12 years of age, the recommended dose of Aerinaze is one tablet twice 
a day, taken whole with a full glass of water. Treatment should continue for as short a time as possible 
and should stop when symptoms, chiefly the congestion (blocked nose), have disappeared. Treatment 
for more than 10 days is not advisable, as the medicine’s effects on nasal congestion may wear off. 
Once the nose has cleared, patients can use desloratadine alone. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Aerinaze work? 
Aerinaze contains two active substances: desloratadine, an antihistamine, and pseudoephedrine, which 
is a nasal decongestant. Desloratadine works by blocking the receptors on which histamine, a 
substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, normally attaches itself. When the receptors are 
blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this leads to a decrease in the symptoms of allergy. 
Pseudoephedrine works by stimulating nerve endings to release the chemical noradrenaline, which 
causes the blood vessels to constrict (narrow). This reduces the amount of fluid released from the 
vessels, resulting in less swelling and less mucus production in the nose. In Aerinaze, the two active 
substances are used together, since an antihistamine alone may not provide adequate relief for 
patients with nasal congestion. 
Aerinaze tablets have two layers, one containing desloratadine, and the other containing 
pseudoephedrine. Desloratadine is released from its layer immediately after it is taken, while 
pseudoephedrine is released slowly over 12 hours. This means that patients only need to take the 
tablet twice a day. 
Desloratadine has been available in the European Union (EU) since 2001, and pseudoephedrine is 
widely used in medicines that have been available over-the-counter for many years. 
How has Aerinaze been studied? 
The effectiveness of Aerinaze was assessed in two main studies involving a total of 1,248 adult and 
adolescent patients. In both studies, Aerinaze was compared with desloratadine alone and with 
pseudoephedrine alone. The main measures of effectiveness were the change in the severity of 
hayfever symptoms reported by the patients between before treatment started, and over the entire 15 
days of treatment. The patients recorded their symptoms in a diary every 12 hours during the study, 
scoring on a standard symptom scale how severe the symptoms were over the previous 12-hour 
period. 
What benefit has Aerinaze shown during the studies? 
Aerinaze was more effective in reducing symptoms than either of the two active substances taken 
alone. When looking at all hayfever symptoms except for nasal congestion, patients taking Aerinaze 
reported a reduction in symptoms of 46.0%, compared with 35.9% in those taking pseudoephedrine 
alone. When looking at nasal congestion, patients taking Aerinaze had a reduction in symptoms of 
37.4%, compared with 26.7% in those taking desloratadine alone. Similar results were seen in the 
second study. 
What is the risk associated with Aerinaze? 
The most common side effects with Aerinaze (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
tachycardia (fast heart rate), dry mouth, dizziness, psychomotor hyperactivity (restlessness), 
pharyngitis (sore throat), anorexia (loss of appetite), constipation, headache, fatigue (tiredness), 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping), somnolence (sleepiness), sleep disorders and nervousness. For the full 
list of all side effects reported with Aerinaze, see the Package Leaflet. 
Aerinaze must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to desloratadine, 
pseudoephedrine or any of the other ingredients, to adrenergic agents or to loratadine (another 
medicine used to treat allergies). It should not be used in people who are taking a monoamine oxidase 
inhibitor (such as some medicines used to treat depression) or who have stopped taking one of these 
medicines within the last two weeks. Aerinaze should also not be taken by people who have narrow-
Aerinaze  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
angle glaucoma (increased pressure inside the eye), urinary retention (difficulty in passing urine), 
heart or blood vessel diseases including hypertension (high blood pressure), hyperthyroidism (an 
overactive thyroid gland), or a history or risk of haemorrhagic stroke (stroke caused by bleeding within 
the brain). 
Why has Aerinaze been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Aerinaze’s benefits are 
greater than its risks for the symptomatic treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis when accompanied by 
nasal congestion and recommended that Aerinaze be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Aerinaze 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Aerinaze on 30 July 2007. 
The full EPAR for Aerinaze can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Aerinaze, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2011. 
Aerinaze  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
