SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Aerius. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 July 2004. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Aerius,  with  the  active  ingredient  desloratadine  (DL),  is  a  H1  antagonist  intended  for  relief  of 
symptoms  associated  with  seasonal  allergic  rhinitis.  The  indication  was  extended  to  allergic  rhinitis 
and to include Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria through Type II variations. 
Desloratadine  is  the  major  active  metabolite  of  loratadine  and  possesses  qualitatively  similar 
pharmacodynamic activity with a relative potency approximating 10 to 20 times that of loratadine in 
vitro, and 2.5 to 4 times that of loratadine in animals. Desloratadine is to be given in a daily dose of 5 
mg/day.   
Seasonal  allergic  rhinitis  (SAR)  is  an  IgE-mediated  inflammatory  disease  of  the  nasal  mucosa 
characterised by symptoms of sneezing, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, and nasal pruritus. SAR may be 
accompanied by itching  of the  throat,  eyes and  ears, epiphora and  oedema around the  eyes. Around 
20% of cases are accompanied by asthma. The prevalence of SAR amongst patients attending general 
practitioners is 11 per thousand in Denmark and 20 per thousand in the UK.  
Avoiding allergen  exposure is the  most  effective  way of  controlling allergic  conditions; however, in 
SAR, total avoidance is almost impossible and  as a  consequence pharmacological treatment  may  be 
needed.  Antihistamines  are  effective  in  allergic  rhinitis,  which  comprises  approximately  80%  of 
rhinitis  found  in  children  and  30%  in  adults.  They  are  effective  against  rhinorrhea,  itching  and 
sneezing but have little effect on nasal obstruction. Clinical trials have shown that, in seasonal allergic 
rhinitis, between 40 and 80% of patients experience good to excellent symptom relief (approximately 
twice that induced by placebo). 
In the pharmacological treatment of SAR, oral H1 receptor antagonists are one of several therapeutic 
options available and  have been proven to be  effective  as initial therapy in  many patients with  mild 
SAR,  especially  controlling  rhinorrhea,  sneezing  and  nasal  pruritus.  Because  antihistamines  most 
effectively  block  receptor  sites  before  histamine  release,  best  results  are  obtained  when  they  are 
administered on a regular basis and as a prophylactic measure prior to allergen exposure. 
The primary goal of H1 receptor antagonist treatment in SAR is to reduce and  eventually to free the 
patient from symptoms. Therefore, the most popular test for evaluating H1 receptor antagonist efficacy 
in SAR is to use a 3- to 4-point scale from absence to very severe presence of key symptoms attributed 
to  SAR.  The  primary  symptoms  being  evaluated  are  nasal  congestion,  sneezing,  rhinorrhea,  itchy 
nose/palate/throat  and  ocular  symptoms.  To  assess  the  true  effect  of  the  study  drug,  the  use  of  a 
placebo group is absolutely necessary because exposure to allergens is variable and the improvements 
in symptom scores following placebo easily reach 20 to 30%. 
Historically,  allergic  rhinitis  is  subdivided  into  two  clinical  syndromes  referred  to  as  SAR  and 
Perennial Allergic Rhinitis (PAR). These classifications are based on the clinical manifestation of AR 
symptoms in relationship to duration of exposure to differing classifications of allergens. For example, 
SAR symptoms typically occur in tandem with the pollen season since SAR is triggered by episodic 
exposure to outdoor allergens (such as pollen and moulds). PAR symptoms typically occur throughout 
the  year  since  PAR  is  the  result  of  continual  exposure  to  indoor  allergens  (dust  mites,  insects,  and 
animal dander).  
In  reality,  the  division  between  SAR  and  PAR  is  not  straightforward  because  PAR  and  SAR 
significantly  overlap  with  respect  to  pathophysiology  (i.e.,  IgE-mediated  inflammation),  clinical 
expression  of  the  disease,  and  therapeutic  management  (allergen  avoidance,  antihistamines, 
decongestants,  and  intranasal  steroids).  Firstly,  it  is  often  difficult  to  differentiate  between  seasonal 
and  perennial  symptoms.  Patients  with  either  condition  complain  of  nasal  itching,  sneezing, 
rhinorrhea, and nasal congestion although, nasal congestion is more pronounced in PAR than in SAR 
and  eye  itching  tends  to  be  less  severe.  Secondly,  PAR  symptoms  are  usually  present  on  a  chronic 
1/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
basis,  however,  SAR  symptoms  may,  likewise,  be  year-round  in  warm  climates  where  pollens  and 
moulds are perennial allergens (e.g., Parietaria pollen allergy in the Mediterranean area, grass pollen 
allergy in Southern California or Florida). Even more confusing, symptoms of PAR may not be year-
round  in  climates  where  exposure  to  perennial  allergens  is  not  similar  throughout  the  year.  Thirdly, 
most  patients  are  sensitive  to  both  indoor  and  outdoor  allergens,  and  in  these  patients,  seasonal 
symptoms trigger exacerbations of perennial symptoms. 
Other  patients  may  be  sensitive  to  multiple  types  of  seasonal  pollens  and  therefore  have  symptoms 
throughout the  year. In summary, there is  considerable  overlap  with respect to type  and  duration  of 
symptoms experienced by PAR and SAR patients. 
Urticaria is rarely a serious illness, however, it is a common complaint. Up to 10% of the population 
(lifetime  prevalence)  will  have  an  episode  of  urticaria  (all  types),  although  it  is  difficult  to  obtain 
precise figures. The newest conducted studies point to a female: male ratio of about 1.5:1.0. Urticaria 
may be Acute (duration of episodes of hives less than six weeks) or Chronic (duration of urticaria for  
six or more weeks). 
Chronic  Idiopathic  Urticaria  (CIU)  with  or  without  angioedema  is  defined  as  the  occurrence  of 
frequent  urticaria  characterised  by  episodic  or  persistent  wheals,  which  recur  for  a  minimum  of  6 
weeks  but  frequently  over  months  or  years.  The  true  incidence  of  CIU  remains  unclear.  The 
percentages vary from 0.25-5% in the entire population. CIU patients, in whom history and laboratory 
tests fail to disclose an underlying cause, account for 80-90% of all cases of chronic urticaria. Though 
the  cause  of  CIU  is  unknown,  mast  cell  mediators,  of  which  histamine  is  the  best  known,  play  an 
important  role  in  the  pathogenesis  of  this  disease.  The  symptoms  of  CIU  may  be  extremely 
troublesome  for  many  subjects  and  may  cause  significant  impairment  of  their  quality  of  life.    The 
lesions are associated with severe pruritus and may be accompanied by a stinging or somewhat painful 
prickling sensation. 
The  histamine  H1-receptor  antagonists  are  important  first-line  medications  for  the  symptomatic 
treatment  of  urticaria.  However,  the  use  of  the  classical  H1  antihistamines  is  often  accompanied  by 
undesirable  side  effects,  particularly  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  symptoms  such  as  sedation  and 
anticholinergic effects such as dry mouth. The development of the nonsedating second-generation H1 
antagonists, largely free of the side effects of older antihistamines has been a major advantage for the 
symptomatic treatment of urticaria. 
Pruritus is the hallmark symptom of urticaria and is generally responsive to the administration of an 
antihistamine.  Other  efficacy  assessments  relevant  to  urticaria  include  number  and  size  of  hives, 
interference with sleep and daily activities, overall condition and therapeutic response. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Aerius is authorised as 5 mg film-coated tablets, 5 mg oral lyophilisates and 0.5 mg/ml syrup. 
Film-coated tablet 
Composition 
Aerius is presented as a round, film-coated, embossed tablet with a light blue colour containing 5 mg 
desloratadine, INN. Other  components  of the tablet  core are  calcium  hydrogen phosphate  dihydrate, 
microcrystalline cellulose, maize starch, and talc. A two-stage tablet coating employs a first spraying 
with the blue coating material followed by a clear coating material (dispersion of the coating materials 
in water). The coated tablets are polished with cannuba wax and white beeswax.  
Desloratadine 5 mg tablets will be packed in blister packs consisting of PCTFE/PVC (forming film) 
and aluminium foil with vinyl heat seal coating (lidding). 
Active substance 
Desloratadine  is  manufactured  from  loratadine,  and  chemical  and  spectroscopic  data  confirm  the 
assigned structure. The active substance can exist in two polymorhpic forms, but this has no clinical 
consequence as they are bioequivalent and have the same dissolution and stability profile. 

2/60 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
The specification contains relevant, validated tests for identity, assay, related impurities etc., sufficient 
to routinely control the quality in a satisfactory way. The impurity limits in the specifications for the 
active substance are justified by the toxicology studies. 
Batch analysis results of 19 batches are presented, including batches used in preclinical safety, clinical 
and stability studies. The data are in conformance with the proposed drug substance specifications.  
The stability data studies indicate that there is no significant change or trend after storage at 4°C, 25°C 
or accelerated temperature/humidity conditions. The results support a re-test period of 24 months.  
Other ingredients 
The ingredients calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, maize starch, talc, 
cannuba wax, white beeswax and purified water all comply with the European Pharmacopoeia. These 
excipients do not originate from animal sources and are therefore free of contamination with BSE. 
There  are  two  non-compendial  excipients  used,  Blue  and  Clear  coating  materials.  Blue  coating 
material  contains  lactose  monohydrate,  hypromellose,  macrogol  400,  titanium  dioxide  (E171)  and  
3-5 % Indigo carmine lake (E132).  Clear coating material contains hypromellose and macrogol 400. 
Indigo  carmine  lake  (E132)  complies  with  the  European  Directive  78/25/EEC  and  the  other 
components  listed  above  all  meet  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  specifications.  The  lactose 
monohydrate used is regarded as uncritical with reference to potential BSE risk. 
Satisfactory information has been provided in the dossier demonstrating that the medicinal product is 
made in compliance with the CPMP Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal 
spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products. 
Product development and finished product 
Aerius  is  manufactured  by  a  conventional  manufacturing  process  including  fluid  bed  granulation, 
tablet compression and tablet coating. A satisfactory process validation has been performed, including 
granulation, blend time, lubrication blend time, compression force and coating. 
The product is being manufactured in a facility that holds the necessary Manufacturing Authorisation. 
The  control tests and specifications  for the  finished product are  adequately  drawn  up. The  company 
has, however, been asked as a follow up measure to re-evaluate and if necessary, tighten the limits for 
degradation products in the finished product specifications, as soon as the 36 months stability data are 
available. The identity of desloratadine is based upon retention time (HPLC) and upon Rf (TLC). The 
HPLC system used for assay and monitoring degradation products in the finished products is the same 
as used for the active substance. 
The  dissolution  test  is  carried  out  with  a  validated  automatic  dissolution  measuring  system  (UV-
detection). The impurity limits in the product specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Specifications  for  microbial purity  for the finished product  are included  in the release  and  shelf-life 
specifications and conform to the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. 
The results from 3 production scale batches initially provided for the US site (which is not proposed 
for  the  European  market)  showed  loss  of  excipients  during  the  granulation  process.  Certificates  of 
analysis for three batches from the proposed manufacturing site in Italy were submitted in the answers 
to the List of Questions and all results are within specifications. 
Stability of the product 
A  stability  study  was  performed  on  unprotected  tablets  when  stored  for  1  month  at  25°C/60%RH, 
40°C/75%RH and 40°C/ambient RH. Desloratadine degradation was shown to be mainly accelerated 
by moisture. The PCTFE/PVC material has high moisture barrier characteristics and although stability 
data at accelerated conditions (40° C/75%RH) show elevated degradation products levels the results at 
intermediate stability conditions (30° C/60%) support the selected packaging material. The data justify 
the  inclusion  of  the  warning  “Store  in  original  package”  on  the  labelling,  in  order  to  protect  the 
product from moisture. 
For  the  finished  product  stored  in  the  proposed  packaging  material,  intermediate  and  long-term 
stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  at  different  temperatures  and  conditions  (25°C/60%  RH  (12 
3/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
months), 30°C/60% RH (6 months)). The major degradation product in desloratadine tablets formyl-
desloratadine  and  total  related  substances  were  above  the  shelf  life  limit  after  6  months  storage  at 
40°C/75%RH. The labelling should therefore include the statement “Do not store above 30°C”. 
A 24 month shelf life is acceptable, when stored in the original primary package (PCTFE blisters) at a 
temperature below 30°C. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  Aerius  tablets  are  manufactured  using  a  conventional  manufacturing  process.  The  chemical-
pharmaceutical  dossier  is  well  documented  and  guarantees  the  quality  of  the  active  substance  and 
finished product. The proposed specifications are suitable.  
Oral lyophilisate 
Composition 
Aerius oral lyophilisates contain 5 mg desloratadine, INN. Other components of the oral lyophilisate 
are gelatine Type B, mannitol, aspartame, polacrilin potassium, dye Opatint Red, flavour Tutti Frutti, 
citric acid anhydrous and purified water. 
The  round  pink  oral  lyophilisates  (embossed  with  a  “C”  on  the  bottom  of  the  oral  lyophilisate)  are 
packaged  in  unit  dose  peelable  foil/foil  blisters  consisting  of  a  five-layer  cold  formable  laminate 
blister  material  heat  sealed  with  a  lacquer  coated  paper/foil  laminate  lidding  material.  This  lidding 
material  is  to  be  peeled  back  by  the patient,  and  instructions  are  given  in  section  3  of  the  package 
leaflet to that  effect. PVC and the  heat seal lacquer are the product  contact surfaces. The secondary 
package is either a pouch or a carton. 
Active substance 
The  manufacture and  control (including specifications and test methods)  of this active substance are 
identical to that in the dossier for the film-coated tablet. The stability data presented is also identical to 
that  submitted  for  the  film-coated  tablets  and  the  claimed  retest  period  has  therefore  been  fully 
justified. 
Other ingredients 
Gelatine  (Type  B),  mannitol,  aspartame,  citric  acid  anhydrous  and  purified  water  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  the  current  European  Pharmacopoeia  (PhEur).  The  gelatine  originates  from  bovine 
hides, is obtained by alkaline processing and a PhEur certificate of suitability (TSE) (R0-CEP 2000-
113-Rev 00) is provided for the stated manufacturer. 
Polacrilin  potassium  complies  with  the  current  requirements  of  the  USP/NF  with  an  additional 
specification  for  particle  size  (minimum  of  90%  <  20  µm).  A  declaration  from  the  excipient 
manufacturer is presented  which states that no  class 1, 2 or 3 solvents are  used in the production of 
this excipient. 
The composition of the tutti-frutti flavour is provided, with confirmation that it is in compliance with 
Council  Directive  88/388/EEC.  The  composition  of  the  proprietary  red  dye  (Dye  Opatint  Red  AD-
25000) is provided. All its components are described in the monographs of the current PhEur with the 
exception  of  the  red  iron  oxide  (E172)  which  is  in  the  list  of  authorised  colouring  materials  in  the 
Annex to Council Directive 78/25/EEC. A declaration is provided that this colourant meets the purity 
criteria  of  Council  Directive  95/45/EC  (concerning  colours  for  use  in  foodstuffs).  The  in-house 
specifications for both the tutti-frutti flavour and the Opatint Red AD-25000 are satisfactory. 
The  packaging  consists  of  a  five-layer  laminate  forming  film,  polyvinyl  chloride  (PVC)/oriented 
polyamide (OPA)/aluminium/OPA/PVC  with a PVC  product  contact surface. The lidding  comprises 
four  layers,  heat  seal  lacquer/aluminium  foil/polyethylene  terephthalate  (PET)/bleached  kraft  paper, 
with the heatseal lacquer as the product contact surface.  Satisfactory specifications are provided for 
all the primary packaging materials. 
Product development and finished product 
4/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The  objective  was  to  develop  a  rapidly  disintegrating  oral  solid  dosage  form  containing  5  mg  of 
desloratadine that  was  easy to take,  had an acceptable taste, was physically robust  enough to  ensure 
that the dosage could be removed from the package and handled without damage, and could be easily 
swallowed without water.  
The required disintegration characteristics are obtained by the use of the freeze drying technology.  A 
unit  dose  of  an  aqueous  suspension  of  the  active  substance  containing  the  necessary  different 
ingredients is  freeze-dried, with the blister package being  used  as a  mould to  obtain a tablet shaped 
oral lyophilisate (dosage unit). 
Gelatine  and  mannitol  are  the  main  components,  which  contribute  to  the  rapid  dispersion  of  the 
product. Gelatine provides the essential physical structure of the unit and ensures that some flexibility 
is retained. Mannitol crystallises during the freezing process and gives the unit rigidity. Compatibility 
of  these  excipients  with  the  active  substance  is  demonstrated.  The  gelatine  level  was  fine-tuned  to 
obtain physically robust units that still disperse quickly in the mouth. 
Desloratadine is bound on a cation exchange resin (polacrilin potassium) with a resin to drug ratio of 
3:1, to reduce its bitter taste. 
Citric acid anhydrous is used to adjust the pH of the active substance solution  at 6.5, which  ensures 
that  desloratadine is appropriately  charged  for bonding to the  resin.  A tutti-frutti  flavouring  agent is 
then  added,  with  aspartame  as  sweetener.  The  selection  of  these  ingredients  over  other  flavouring 
agents and sweeteners was based on a compatibility study. 
The  product  is  coloured  pink  by  the  inclusion  of  Dye  Opatint  Red  AD-25000.  For  product 
identification, the letter C is embossed on the bottom of the oral lyophilisate. 
Desloratadine can exist in two polymorphic forms, however no crystalline desloratadine was detected 
in the drug product using X-ray analysis. 
The manufacturing process is well described, including the in-process controls and validation studies. 
All excipients except polacrilin potassium are dissolved in the pre-lyophilisation solution. The pH is 
checked as an in-process control and adjusted if necessary (with citric acid). The polacrilin potassium 
is then dispersed in the aqueous solution. The resultant dispersion is then filled into the blister pockets 
(with a target weight of 350 mg suspension) and lyophilised. The blisters are sealed with lidding foil. 
Process development and validation have been performed in different stages, by the production of the 
several  batches  of  various  sizes  (up  to  full  commercial  scale).  The  critical  process  parameters  have 
been identified and optimised. Results of both in-process controls and finished product tests are given 
for  the  batches  that  are  manufactured  under  optimised  conditions  and  all  results  comply  with  the 
specifications. 
The finished product specification includes tests and limits for:  description and diameter; identity of 
colourant;  microbial  quality  (USP  methods);  uniformity  of  content;  moisture  (Karl  Fischer); 
dissolution (0.1 N HCl, first two stages of USP test); identity and assay of desloratadine and content of 
degradation products of desloratadine (same isocratic HPLC method); tensile strength. The shelf-life 
limits differ only from the release limits in terms of the content of degradation products. 
The  identification  of  the  colourant  is  based  on  qualitative  determination  of  ferric  ions,  which  are 
liberated from ferric oxide. 
SCH11334 (N-methyl derivate of desloratadine) is the only degradation product observed during long-
term  stability  testing  on  the  finished  product  and  is  therefore  included  as  an  identified  degradation 
product  in  the  specifications  (limit  of  0.1%  at  release).  SCH26485  (N-formyl  derivate  of 
desloratadine)  and  SCH  446721  (piperidine  hydroxyl  analogue),  which  are  only  observed  in 
accelerated  testing,  are  controlled  by  the  0.1%  release  limit  for  individual  unspecified  degradation 
products.  While  the  release  limits  for  individual  degradation  products  correspond  to  the  acceptance 
limit  in  the  drug  substance  (that  is,  <  0.1%),  the  shelf  life  limits  foresee  slight  degradation  during 
storage (< 0.2%).  Limits for total degradation products of < 0.2% at release and < 0.3% for shelf-life 
purposes are justified. 
5/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The isocratic HPLC method AM535 is demonstrated to separate desloratadine from potential synthesis 
related  impurities  (loratadine,  DS1  and  DS2)  and  potential  degradation  products  (SCH11334, 
SCH26485,  SCH446721  and  SCH13095).  There  is,  however,  minimal  resolution  between  two  peak 
pairs (SCH26485/SCH13095  and  SCH11334/SCH446721).  Gradient  HPLC  method  AM543,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  demonstrated  to  separate  all  potential  impurities  from  each  other  and  from 
desloratadine.  Specificity  of  this  method  is  further  confirmed  by  stress  studies  under  different 
conditions, in which mass balance was demonstrated.  Linearity, precision (repeatability, intermediate 
and reproducibility), accuracy and robustness are demonstrated for the determination of desloratadine 
and  SCH11334  with  method  AM535  and  for  the  determination  of  SCH11334  and  SCH26485  with 
method  AM543.  No  correction  for  response  factors  of  the  investigated  impurities  is  necessary.  The 
limits  of  detection  are  set  at  0.25%  and  0.02%  for  methods  AM535  and  AM543,  respectively.  The 
limit of quantitation is 0.05% for both methods. 
All the methods have been adequately validated. 
Batch  analyses  data  are  given  for  four  pilot  scale  (stability)  batches  and  one  full  scale  batch 
manufactured  at  the  proposed  site  (using  active  substance  batches  from  both  sources),  and  these 
demonstrate consistency of manufacture and compliance with the proposed specification. 
Stability of the product 
Four  pilot  batches  (140,000  tablets)  manufactured  at  the  proposed  site  and  packed  in  the  proposed 
blisters  were  used  in  the  stability  studies.  For  three  of  these  batches,  18  months  results  at 
25°C/60%RH  and  6  months  results  at  40°C/75%RH  are  presented.  One  batch  was  only  used  for 
photostability  testing  (ICH  conditions).  Testing  was  performed  according  to  the  proposed 
specification. 
Desloratadine  is  very  stable  in  the  oral  lyophilisate,  with  only  low  levels  (<  0.1%)  of  degradation 
products being observed during the stability studies at 25°C/60%RH. Degradation product SCH11334 
(N-methyl  derivate) is not detected immediately after production but slightly increases  up to 0.08%.  
Other  levels  of  degradation  products  were  often  below  the  limit  of  quantitation  (<  0.05%).  After 
storage  at  40°C/75%RH  higher  levels  of  degradation  products  were  reported,  although  total 
degradation products for all batches were only 0.2% to 0.3% after 6 months at 40°C/75%. 
The diameter of the tablets was observed to be slightly reduced by storage at 40°C/75%. 
There were no significant trends in other parameters during either long term or accelerated testing. 
In conclusion, the stability data support the shelf-life claimed in the SPC of 24 months with a storage 
precaution  of  "Store  in  the  original  package."    The  absence  of  a  temperature-specific  storage 
recommendation is justified. 
Syrup 
Composition 
The syrup is a clear, orange coloured aqueous solution containing desloratadine at a concentration of 
0.5  mg/ml.  The  product  is  packed  in  amber  glass  bottles  (Ph.  Eur.  Type  III)  closed  with  a  child 
resistant polypropylene cap. The caps have a polyethylene liner as the product contact surface. 
A plastic measuring spoon is supplied with the bottle. 
Active substance 
The  manufacture and  control (including specifications and test methods)  of this active substance are 
identical to that in the dossier for the film-coated tablet. The stability data presented is also identical to 
that  submitted  for  the  film-coated  tablets  and  the  claimed  retest  period  has  therefore  been  fully 
justified. 
Other ingredients 
Propylene  glycol,  sorbitol  liquid  (non-crystallising),  citric  acid  anhydrous,  sodium  citrate,  sodium 
benzoate,  disodium  edetate, sucrose  and purified  water  comply  with the  current requirements  of the 
European Pharmacopoeia. The non-compendial excipients are Color E 110 (supplied by Colorcon) and 
Natural & Artificial Bubble Gum Flavor #15864 (Virginia Dare). 
6/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
These excipients do not originate from animal sources and are therefore free from BSE/TSE risk. 
Product development and finished product 
The objective was the development of a stable syrup formulation containing 0.5 mg/ml desloratadine 
with pleasant organoleptic characteristics, meeting the Ph. Eur. requirements for Preservative Efficacy 
and  amenable to scale-up.  
Desloratadine  is  sufficiently  soluble  in  acidic  aqueous  solutions  to  prepare  a  simple  0.5  mg/ml 
solution.  Stability  of  the  active  substance  is  demonstrated  to  be  optimal  in  a  solution  with  a  pH 
between  5  and  6.  Therefore,  a  sodium  citrate  /  citric  acid  buffer  is  included  in  the  formulation. 
Stability is further improved by the addition of disodium edetate. 
Propylene  glycol  is  used  for  its  humectant,  anti-freezing  and  solubilising  properties.  Laboratory 
studies indicated that this excipient can enhance the formation of the formyl-desloratadine degradation 
product.  Accelerated  stability  studies  on  products  prepared  with  propylene  glycol  from  different 
suppliers did not show significant changes in the degradation product content.  
Sucrose is used as sweetening agent, although a slight incompatibility with the active substance was 
shown  under stress  conditions. Saccharin  was  not  found acceptable  from  a paediatric  point of  view. 
Sorbitol liquid is used as additional sweetener and as anti-cap locking aid. The organoleptic properties 
are further improved by the addition of the bubble gum flavour and the colorant Sunset yellow (E110). 
A  slight  incompatibility  between  desloratadine  and  the  bubble  gum  flavour  was  also  observed.  The 
stability of desloratadine in the syrup is however demonstrated in the stability studies presented in part 
IIF.2. 
The selection of benzoate as preservative is based on previous experience. Products containing 100% 
and  80%  of  the  target  concentration  (0.1%)  are  demonstrated  to  pass  the  Ph.  Eur.  Preservative 
Efficacy criteria for oral preparations.  
Although the proposed formulation has initially been accepted by CPMP, the company is requested to 
further  improve  the  formulation  in  order  to  meet  current  expectations  for  a  paediatric  syrup.  The 
company has agreed to assess and, if feasible, implement the following improvements on an ongoing 
(post-approval) basis: 
•  The feasibility of removing the colouring agent from the formulation will be investigated to avoid 
that the medicinal product is unnecessarily attractive to children. 
•  The  feasibility  of  removing  the  preservative  sodium  benzoate  from  the  formulation  will  be 
investigated. 
Taking into account that the product is intended for long-term use in children, a sugar-free alternative 
for the currently accepted formulation should be developed. 
Stability of the product 
The applicant proposes a shelf life of 24 months with the recommendation: "Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original container."  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Desloratadine has been developed as a H1 antagonist. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Film-coated tablet 
In-vitro studies 
The in vitro studies have focused on the radioligand binding to the histamine H1-receptor (in human 
recombinant, guinea pig brain and lung and in rat brain) and functional H1-antagonism on the isolated 
guinea pig ileum.  
7/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
These radioligand studies demonstrate that desloratadine  has an about 15-fold higher affinity  for the 
H1  receptor  than  the  parent  compound  loratadine.  The  main  metabolite,  the  3-hydroxy  glucuronide, 
was inactive on H1 receptor on rat brain membranes.  
The  specificity  of  desloratadine  for  the  H1  receptor  was  evaluated  using  a  panel  of  more  than  100 
receptors and enzymes. These studies revealed that  desloratadine had some affinity for H2, serotonin 
5-HT7 and various subtypes of muscarinic receptors. 
Desloratadine  antagonised  the  histamine-induced  contractions  of  isolated  guinea  pig  ileum  with  an 
approximately 10-fold higher potency than loratadine. The selectivity ratio of desloratadine, however, 
was lower than that of loratadine. In this study desloratadine was almost equipotent as anticholinergic 
and  antihistaminic  agent  with  a  4  times  lower  potency  than  that  of  atropine.  This  finding,  however, 
could be a species peculiarity of the guinea pig. Such  species differences have been demonstrated in 
many  instances  in  the  case  of  G-protein-coupled  receptors.  Other  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  preclininal 
studies  have  clearly  shown  that  the  anticholinergic  activity  of  desloratadine  is  seen  only  at 
concentrations and  doses  which  far  exceed  those,  which  exhibit antihistamine  activity. Furthermore, 
this activity of desloratadine is not considered to be of clinical relevance as there is no evidence in the 
clinical dossier, that desloratadine has a significant anticholinergic activity. 
In-vivo studies 
In  vivo  studies  conducted  in  mice  and  guinea  pigs,  by  oral  administration,  have  shown  that 
desloratadine  is  2.5-4  times  more  potent  than  loratadine.  In  guinea  pigs  an  oral  dose  of  0.5 mg/kg 
(about three times the ED50 in this assay) protected 100% of the animals for 8 hours p.a. and 40% at 24 
hours p.a. against lethal anaphylaxis induced by i.v. histamine. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In vitro studies using mouse, rat, rabbit, monkey and human hepatocytes and liver microsomes as well 
as  recombinant  human  CYPs  and  investigation  of  the  effects  of  desloratadine  on  drug  metabolising 
enzymes in subacute toxicity studies were performed.  
The preclinical studies do not indicate a clinically relevant potential of desloratadine for liver enzyme 
induction or drug-drug interactions. However, the applicant has  not been able to identify the CYP(s) 
responsible  for the  metabolism of  desloratadine to 3-hydroxy-desloratadine. The  applicant submitted 
the  results  of  further  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  in  their  response  to  the  List  of  Questions.  The 
applicant will perform additional studies to try and identify and characterise the enzyme(s) and report 
these studies as follow up measures. 
General and safety pharmacology 
Central nervous system 
Desloratadine  had  no behavioural  effect at  doses  up to 300  mg/kg in  mice and 12  mg/kg in rats. In 
mice  it  had  no  anticonvulsant  effect  up  to  160  mg/kg.  The  lack  of  activity  on  the  central  nervous 
system is likely  due to a lack  of penetration through  the blood-brain barrier. This is supported by  a 
study in guinea pigs showing that  following an i.p. injection of  desloratadine (6  mg/kg), the ex vivo 
binding  of  3H-mepyramine  in  the  brain  was  not  inhibited,  whereas  a  similar  treatment  by 
chlorpheniramine (2 mg/kg) led to a 50% inhibition. 
Cardiovascular system 
Studies have been performed to evaluate the effect of desloratadine on the QTc interval and the risk of 
ventricular arrhythmias. Among the various potassium channels involved in cardiac repolarisation, the 
HERG channel, mediating the IKr  current is the one that is impaired in  most patients with congenital 
long-QT syndrome and is blocked by some H1 antagonists.  
The  following  studies  were  performed  with  desloratadine:  whole-cell  patch  clamp  studies  on 
ventricular  myocytes, 
channels, 
electrophysiological  and  mechanical  studies  of  the  guinea  pig  ventricular  muscle,  ECG  of  perfused 
rabbit  heart  in  Langendorff  perfusion  chamber  and  in  vivo  studies  in  rat,  guinea  pig  and  monkey. 
These  studies  have  revealed  some  inhibition  of  the  potassium  channels  with  high  concentrations  of 
desloratadine.  At  some  targets,  loratadine  was  more  potent  than  desloratadine,  but  the  opposite  was 
recombinant  potassium 
electrophysiological 
studies  on 
8/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
true in other models. The results presented in the dossier are consistent with a recent article showing 
that among second-generation antihistamines astemizole and terfenadine have a significant inhibitory 
effect on the HERG channel, whereas loratadine and cetirizine are much less potent (Taglialatela et al, 
Mol.  Pharmacol.  54:  113-121,  1998).  The  results  are  also  confirmed  by  the  findings  of  a  clinical 
pharmacology  study,  in  which  doses  up  to  nine-fold  the  therapeutic  dose  were  investigated  and  no 
ECG changes were seen.  
Gastrointestinal, renal and respiratory function 
Single  doses  of  desloratadine  (up  to  12  mg/kg)  do  not  exert  effects  on  gastric  emptying,  intestinal 
transit time, renal and respiratory function. 
Summary  
Desloratadine is the major active metabolite of loratadine. It is a more potent H1 receptor antagonist 
than  loratadine  itself;  however,  desloratadine  is  also  a  more  potent  antimuscarinic  agent  than 
loratadine  when  tested  at  concentrations  and  doses  which  far  exceed  those,  which  exhibit 
antihistamine  activity.  Furthermore,  this  activity  of  desloratadine  is  not  considered  to  be  of  clinical 
relevance.  
The studies on cardiovascular system revealed no evidence of blockade of cardiac potassium channels 
(native or injected currents), no prolongation of the action potential (guinea pig papillary muscle), no 
prolongation of QTc  (animal  models  and  humans) and no  evidence  of  drug induced arrhytmias. The 
results  are  furthermore  in  accordance  with  the  findings  of  a  clinical  pharmacology  study,  in  which 
doses  up  to  nine-fold  the  therapeutic  dose  were  investigated  and  no  ECG  changes  were  seen.  The 
preclinical  results  do  not  indicate  any  differences  between  desloratadine  and  loratadine  regarding 
cardiovascular effects.  
Oral lyophilisate and syrup 
The  mode  of  action  of  desloratadine  and  its  activity  as  a  H1  antagonist  have  previously  been 
established. No additional information  was therefore been submitted or  considered  necessary by the 
CPMP. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Film-coated tablet 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  desloratadine  was  studied  in  mice,  rats,  cynomolgus  monkeys. 
Desloratadine and its 3-hydroxy metabolite were initially measured by GC/NPD (gas chromatography 
with  a  nitrogen  phosphorus  detector),  while  LC/MS/MS  (liquid  chromatography  with  tandem  mass 
spectrometry)  was  used  in  later  studies.  The  glucuronide  of  3-hydroxy-desloratadine  was  measured 
following hydrolysis by β-glucuronidase.  
After  single  dose  administration  of  desloratadine  or  loratadine  to  rats  and  monkeys  a  non-linear 
relationship  (less  than  proportional  increases)  was  noted  between  Cmax  and  dose.  In  all  species, 
exposure to desloratadine (Cmax and AUC) was higher following administration of desloratadine than 
after an equimolar dose of loratadine. In rats, gender differences in Cmax were observed at all doses. 
In  mice  and  monkeys  the  desloratadine  AUC  was  3  to  4  fold  higher  after  desloratadine  than  after 
loratadine, but Tmax was similar (about 2 hours in mice and 3 hours in monkeys). 
Absolute bioavailability  of desloratadine  was about 50% in  male rats as  well as in  monkeys  of both 
sexes, but about 95% in female rats.  
Binding  to  plasma  proteins  was  approximately  90%  in  mice  and  rats  and  85%  in  monkeys  and  in 
humans. In rats, distribution was  extensive. Tissue/plasma  concentration ratio  was > 1, especially in 
liver  and  bowel.  The  concentration  of  desloratadine  in  foetal  plasma  and  milk  were  about  40%  and 
85% of the maternal plasma concentration.  
Biotransformation by 5- and 6-hydroxylations predominated in the animals, whilst the 3-hydroxylation 
followed  by  conjugation  to  glucuronic  acid  was  the  main  process  in  man.  For  each  species  used  in 
preclinical  pharmacokinetic  studies,  the  profile  of  metabolites  was  qualitatively  similar  after 
9/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
desloratadine or loratadine administration. The major (>5%) human metabolites of desloratadine were 
present  in  all  species  after  exposure  to  desloratadine  and  loratadine.  However,  animals  were  not  or 
only to a small extend exposed to 3-OH-desloratadine.  
The  mean CL/F  estimate  for  humans  was 28.5  ml/kg·min,  however, individuals  with a substantially 
lower  clearance  were identified (2.7 and 4.3  ml/kg·min). These subjects  had t1/2 estimates  exceeding 
90 h as opposed to 22.8 h in subjects with a normal metabolism. 
A small percentage of a desloratadine or loratadine dose was excreted in urine (0.7 to 5%) and faeces 
(2 to 15%) of laboratory animals as desloratadine. In humans with normal CL/F values, 1.7 and 6.7% 
of  the  dose  were  excreted  in  urine  and  faeces,  respectively,  as  desloratadine,  and  in  one  slow 
metaboliser,  25%  (urine)  and  17%  (faeces)  of  the  dose  were  excreted  as  desloratadine.  The  low 
amounts  of  desloratadine  recovered  in  urine  and  faeces  indicate  that,  in  laboratory  animals  and 
humans (normal metabolisers), desloratadine is metabolically cleared from plasma. In humans defined 
as poor metabolisers, desloratadine is cleared from plasma by elimination of parent drug in urine and 
faeces. 
Oral lyophilisate and syrup 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  desloratadine  and  its  3-hydroxy  metabolite  has  already  been 
established  in  several  species  and  therefore  no  additional  data  have  been  submitted  or  considered 
necessary by the CPMP. 
Toxicology 
Film-coated tablet 
The  toxicology  program  was  designed  according  to  the  scientific  advice  provided  by  the  CPMP  in 
May 1998. In view of the studies performed with loratadine, the CPMP considered that chronic studies 
beyond 3  months  would  not be  necessary if subchronic studies did  not reveal toxic  effects  different 
from  those  of  loratadine.  Furthermore  carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  considered  necessary  for 
desloratadine. 
Single dose toxicity 
Acute  oral  and  intraperitoneal  toxicity  was  assessed  in  rats  and  mice.  LD50  values  after  oral 
administration corresponded to a 3530-6160 fold multiple of the clinical dose. However, single dose 
toxicity of desloratadine was significantly higher (10 fold) than that of loratadine both in rats and in 
mice  and both by  oral  or  intraperitoneal  route; this  finding,  however, is likely to be  due to inherent 
limitations/artefacts in the acute toxicity studies.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
Two-week,  one-month  and  three-month  toxicity  studies  comparing  desloratadine  to  loratadine  were 
performed in rats and monkeys.   
In rats, the no-effect dose was 3 mg/kg, which was associated with an AUC about 30-fold higher than 
the AUC in humans receiving the clinical dose of 5 mg. At higher doses, the following effects were 
observed:  vacuolation  corresponding  to  phospholipidosis  in  eye,  brain,  heart,  lung,  liver,  intestines, 
thyroid,  muscle  and  bone  marrow,  centrilobular  hepatocyte  hypertrophy,  renal  tubular  dilatation 
and/or  renal  tubular  cell  necrosis,  muscle  fibrosis  and  myofiber  degeneration,  oligospermia  and 
cellular  debris  in  seminiferous  tubules,  and  granulosa  cell  necrosis.  These  toxic  effects  have  been 
observed previously in the loratadine toxicity studies. In general the same effects were observed at 30-
60  mg/day  desloratadine  and  120  mg/day  loratadine,  except  for  the  testicular  effects  previously 
observed at doses as low as 2 mg/kg of loratadine. The reproductive toxicity on testicles of male rats is 
known from loratadine and other antihistamines and thought to be a species-specific phenomenon. 
In  monkeys,  doses  up  to  12  mg/kg,  associated  with  an  exposure  182-fold  higher  than  the  clinical 
exposure, were generally well tolerated. However, there were minimal phospholipidosis at 12 mg/kg 
in the three-month study and in the 2-week study a dose of 6.5 mg/kg produced signs of induction of 
liver  microsomal  cytochrome  P-450  enzymes.  As  a  consequence,  the  no-effect  dose  is  6  mg/kg.  At 
higher  doses  the  following  toxic  effects  were  noticed:  severe  emesis,  extended  abdomen,  lethargy, 
10/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
decrease  in  serum  cholesterol  and  alkaline  phosphatase,  cell  vacuolation  in  many  organs.  In  the  3-
month study, similar effects were observed at 24 mg/kg desloratadine and 72 mg/kg loratadine.  
Genotoxicity 
Results from the Ames test, the chromosomal aberration test in peripheral blood lymphocytes and in 
the  mouse  micronucleus  test  (highest  dose:  50  mg/kg)  were  initially  submitted,  which  showed  that 
desoratadine  was  not  genotoxic.  Although  these  assays  indicate  the  absence  of  genotoxicity,  it  was 
stressed that they do not investigate a potential of the major human metabolite of desloratadine (3-OH-
desloratadine). The applicant therefore submitted as response to the List of Questions results from  a 
Salmonella/mammalian  microsome  and  Eschericia/mammalian  microsome  mutagenicity  assay  and 
mouse  micronucleus  assay  (highest  dose  40  mg/kg)  with  the  desloratadine  metabolite  3-hydroxy-
desloratadine.  The  tests  did  not  indicate  a  mutagenic  or  clastogenic  potential  for  3-hydroxy-
desloratadine. 
Carcinogenicity 
According  to  the  scientific  advice  of  the  CPMP,  no  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed,  since 
exposure to desloratadine was adequate in the loratadine carcinogenicity studies performed previously.  
Reproduction toxicity 
Studies were conducted in rats and rabbits. Desloratadine (24 mg/kg) administered to male and female 
rats prior and throughout mating produced body weight loss without altering fertility. In another study 
where desloratadine was given to male rats for 70 days, a decreased fertility was observed at 12 mg/kg 
and oligospermia as well as testicular microscopic alterations were observed in a few animals at the 3 
mg/kg dose. In rats, no increase in the incidence of malformations was observed up to 48 mg/kg, but 
foetal  weight  was  decreased  at  24  and  48  mg/kg,  the  no-effect  dose  being  6  mg/kg.  In  rabbits, 
desloratadine  did  not  decrease  foetal  weight  and  was  not  teratogenic  at  60  mg/kg  and  the  no-effect 
dose was 30 mg/kg. In rat perinatal and postnatal development studies, the NOAEL was 3 mg/kg.  
Environmental Risk Assessment 
An  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  was  performed  and  no  significant  risk  to  the  environment 
related to the use of desloratadine is anticipated. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Desloratadine is the major active metabolite of loratadine. It is a more potent H1 receptor antagonist 
than loratadine itself and in most preclinical studies desloratadine AUC was higher after desloratadine 
than after an equimolar dose of loratadine. The practical consequence is that desloratadine can be used 
at a 5 mg/day  dose, compared to 10  mg/day for loratadine. Beyond that decrease in dose, there is no 
evidence  in  the  Part  III  of  the  dossier  that  there  is  another  advantage  in  replacing  loratadine  by 
desloratadine.  In  particular,  desloratadine  is  also  a  more  potent  antimuscarinic  agent  than  loratadine 
when tested at concentrations and doses which far exceed those which exhibit antihistamine  activity. 
Furthermore, this activity of desloratadine is not considered to be of clinical relevance.  
The  genotoxicity  studies  showed  that  neither  desloratadine  nor  the  major  human  metabolite  3-
hydroxy-desloratadine are genotoxic. 
Oral lyophilisate 
No data were submitted for pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, single and repeated dose toxicity, 
on  reproduction  toxicology  or  on  mutagenicity  as  the  applicant  refers  to  data  submitted  in  the 
marketing authorisation application for desloratadine 5 mg. 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  with  desloratadine.  This  was  in  accordance  with  the 
scientific advice of the CPMP, since previously  conducted loratadine  carcinogenicity studies  on rats 
and mice adequately assessed the carcinogenic risk for desloratadine.   
A mucous membrane irritation study was conducted with the DL oral lyophilisate tablet in the hamster 
cheek  pouch (SN 99290). The  objective  of  this study  was to assess the  mucous  membrane irritation 
potential of the DL oral lyophilisate 5 mg tablet when administered transmucosal to the hamster cheek 
pouch for five consecutive days. Prior to dosing each hamster was anaesthetised using isoflurane. Six 
11/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
female hamsters received four tablets on Day 0 (20 mg), two tablets on Day 1 (10 mg) and one tablet 
(5 mg) on Days 2 through 4. The initial dose of four tablets was reduced due to a possible toxic effect 
of the DL oral lyophilisate tablet in combination with isoflurane anaesthesia; this was indicated by a 
longer recovery time from anaesthesia compared with controls. The contralateral cheek pouch of each 
DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablet-dosed  hamster  served  as  an  untreated  control.  Six  additional  female 
hamsters underwent physical manipulation (sham dosing) of the cheek pouch. All cheek pouches were 
examined immediately prior to and ten minutes after dosing. 
One DL oral lyophilisate tablet -dosed hamster was found dead on Day 3. The cause of death was not 
determined during macroscopic examination. However, the death was attributed to the possible toxic 
effect  of  the  DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablet  in  combination  with  isoflurane  anaesthesia  as  mentioned 
previously. The doses used in this study were 385 (one tablet) to 1541 (four tablets) times the human 
dose of 0.1 mg/kg based on a 5 mg dose for a 50 kg human. 
All  DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablet-dosed  hamsters  showed  a  very  slight  to  slight  redness  in  the  dosed 
cheek pouch ten minutes after dosing on Days 0 through 4 with the exception of no reaction noted for 
one  hamster  ten  minutes  after  dosing  on  Day 2.  In  addition,  one  DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablet-dosed 
hamster showed very slight redness in the  dosed cheek pouch prior to dosing on Day 4. No reaction 
was noted in any of the sham-dosed hamsters. 
In conclusion, DL oral lyophilisate tablets (5mg) were very slightly to slightly irritating to the mucus 
membrane of the hamster cheek pouch. There were no DL oral lyophilisate tablet-related macroscopic 
or histopathology findings observed in the hamster cheek pouches associated with the administration 
of  DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablets.  The  findings  in  this  study  do  not  suggest  a  significant  local  irritant 
effect. 
An  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  was  performed  and  no  significant  risk  to  the  environment 
related to the use of desloratadine is anticipated. 
Syrup 
No data were submitted for pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, single and repeated dose toxicity, 
on  reproduction  toxicology  or  on  mutagenicity  as  the  applicant  refers  to  data  submitted  in  the 
marketing authorisation application for desloratadine 5 mg. 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  with  desloratadine.  This  was  in  accordance  with  the 
scientific advice of the CPMP, since previously  conducted loratadine  carcinogenicity studies  on rats 
and mice adequately assessed the carcinogenic risk for desloratadine.   
An  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  was  performed  and  no  significant  risk  to  the  environment 
related to the use of desloratadine is anticipated. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Film-coated tablet 
Desloratadine  was  initially  proposed  for  the  relief  of  symptoms  associated  with  seasonal  allergic 
rhinitis  (SAR).  Following  a  Type  II  variation  the  indication  was  extended  to  include  Chronic 
Idiopathic  Urticaria  (CIU).  Its  mechanism  of  action  is  binding  as  a  functional  antagonist  to  the  H1 
receptor.  Efficacy  and  safety  in  SAR  has  been  evaluated  in  four  pivotal,  multicentre,  randomised, 
placebo-controlled  studies  (C98-001,  C98-223,  C98-224,  C98-225)  one  of  which  is  a  phase  II  dose 
finding study  (C98-001). In addition,  four additional  studies  on  onset-of-action  were presented. The 
total  number  of  subjects  who  received  desloratadine  in  the  phase  II  and  III  studies  (including  the 
additional studies) is 2,346 patients out of the enrolled 3,282 patients. Efficacy and safety in CIU was 
evaluated  in  two,  pivotal,  multicentre,  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  phase  III  studies  (P00220, 
P00221). The total number of patients receiving 5 mg desloratadine in this indication was 211. 
12/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Clinical pharmacology 
The  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  desloratadine  were  investigated  in  both 
healthy  volunteers,  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and  patients  with  renal  impairment.  The  18 
studies enrolled a total of 616 subjects employing desloratadine as single oral doses up to 20 mg and 
multiple doses  up to 45  mg/day  for 10 consecutive  days. The studies  were  conducted in  compliance 
with GCP. 
13/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Overview  of  trials  presenting  pharmacokinetic  and/or  pharmacodynamic  data  is  given  in  the  table 
below: 
Study 
number 
C98-097 
Primary 
objective/variable 
Absorption, metabolism, 
excretion 
Design 
Single-dose, open 
label 
C98-215 
Effect of food on oral 
bioavailability 
Single-dose, two-way 
cross over, open label 
Safety and tolerance 
rising single dose 
Safety and tolerance 
rising multiple dose 
Dose-proportionality, 
pharmacokinetic profile, 
safety 
Ketoconazole (200mg 
BID) 
Interaction 
Erythromycin (500 mg 
TID) interaction 
Single-dose, parallel 
group 
14 day, parallel-group 
Single-dose, open 
label, four way 
crossover 
10-day, multiple-dose, 
two-way crossover 
Desloratadine 
dose/comparator 
100 microcuries of 14C-
desloratadine in 10 mg, No 
comparator 
7.5 mg tablet (w/wo breakfast) 
No comparator 
2.5, 5, 10 or 20 mg 
Comparator: placebo 
5, 7.5, 10 or 20 mg QD 
Comparator: placebo 
5, 7.5, 10 or 20 mg 
No comparator 
7.5 mg QD (with Ketoconazole 
or placebo) 
10-day, multiple-dose, 
two-way crossover 
7.5 mg QD (with Erythromycin 
or placebo) 
Pharmacokinetics in 
patients with chronic liver 
disease 
Single-dose, open 
label, parallel group 
Pharmacokinetics in 
patients with chronic 
renal insufficiency 
Single-dose, open 
label, parallel group 
Pharmacokinetics in 
patients with different sex 
and race 
14 day, multiple dose, 
open label 
7.5 mg 
No comparator 
Reference: Normal hepatic 
function 
7.5 mg 
No comparator 
Reference: Normal hepatic 
function 
7.5 mg QD 
No comparator 
Pharmacokinetics/ 
electrocardiographic 
pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacokinetics of 
desloratadine and 3-OH-
desloratadine 
Pharmacokinetics of 
desloratadine and 3-OH-
desloratadine in hepatic 
impairment 
Pharmacokinetics of 
desloratadine and 3-OH-
desloratadine 
Bioavailability of 
desloratadine polymorphs 
10 days, two ways 
crossover 
45 mg (6 x 7.5 mg) once daily 
Comparator: placebo 
10 day, open label, 
three way crossover 
Multiple dose, open, 
parallel groups 
5 or 7.5 mg QD 
Comparator: 10 mg loratadine 
QD 
5 mg once daily for 10 days 
10 day, open label 
5 mg QD 
No comparator 
Single dose, open 
label, three way 
crossover 
Single dose, four way 
crossover 
28 day, blinded, 
parallel groups 
5 mg of form 1, form 2 and 
clinical trial formulation 
No comparator 
7.5 mg with and without 
alcohol 
Comparator: placebo with and 
without alcohol 
5 mg 
Comparator: placebo 
I97-248 
C98-013 
C98-214 
C98-352 
C98-353 
C98-354 
C98-355 
C98-356 
C98-357 
P00117 
P00272 
P00275 
P00311 
C98-551 
Psychomotor performance 
with and without alcohol 
P01196 
P01380 
Flare response study, 
pharmacokinetics of 
desloratadine and 3-OH 
desloratadine 
Influence of grapefruit 
juice on the oral 
bioavailability of 
desloratadine and 
fexofenadine 
Study 
populations 
6 healthy adult 
males 
11 male and 7 
female healthy 
adults 
48 healthy adult 
males 
49 healthy adult 
males 
20 healthy adult 
males 
12 male and 12 
female healthy 
adults 
12 male and 12 
female healthy 
adults 
16 male and 4 
female adults, 12 
with chronic liver 
disease 
26 male and 
11female adults, 
25 with renal 
insufficiency 
48 healthy adults, 
24 females and 24 
males, 24 black 
and 24 Caucasian 
12 male and 12 
female healthy 
adults 
18 males and 7 
female healthy 
adults 
10 male, 10 
female, 11 with 
moderate hepatic 
impairment 
57 male and 56 
female, healthy 
adults 
63 healthy male 
adults 
14 female and 11 
male healthy 
adults 
3 female, 25 male 
healthy adults 
Open, single-dose  4-
way crossover study  
5 mg 
Comparator: 60 mg 
fexofenadine 
24 male and 
female healthy 
volunteers  
14/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
P01378 
P01868 
P00090 
Evaluation of the 
pharmacokinetics and 
electrocardiographic 
pharmacodynamics of 
desloratadine with 
concomicant 
administration of Prozac 
Evaluation of the 
pharmacokinetics and 
electrocardiographic 
pharmacodynamics of 
desloratadine with 
concomicant 
administration of 
cimetidine 
Effects of a single dose of 
desloratadine on the 
flying ability  
Pharmacodynamics 
Open-label, 
randomised, third-
party blind, multiple 
dose, parallel group 
study 
5 mg with and without 20 mg 
fluoxetine 
54 male and 
female healthy 
volunteers 
Randomised, open-
label, multiple-dose, 
parallel group study 
5 mg with and without 600 mg 
cimetidine 
36 male and 
female healthy 
volunteers 
Blinded, single-dose, 
3-way crossover study 
5 mg 
Comparator: placebo and 
50 mg diphenhydramine  
21 male healthy 
volunteers 
Cardiovascular pharmacodynamics 
This  study  (C98-357)  was  a  randomised,  2-way  crossover,  double-blind,  multiple  dose  (10  days), 
placebo controlled study in which 24 healthy subjects (12F/12M; 18-50 years) were randomised.  
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  evaluate  the  electrocardiographic  effects  (difference 
between baseline  maximum  ventricular rate, PR, QRS, QT  and QTc intervals and the  corresponding 
day  10  maximum  ECG  parameters)  of  desloratadine  45  mg  (9  times  a  daily  dose).  The  secondary 
objectives of the study were to determine the pharmacokinetic profile of desloratadine and observe the 
safety  and  tolerability  of  the  drug.  Vital  signs  and  ECGs  were  performed,  and  blood  samples  were 
collected  at  pre-specified  times  for  safety  and  pharmacokinetic  evaluations.  It  is  important  to  stress 
that subjects with screening ECG QTc values exceeding 420 msec were excluded. 
There was a statistically significant increase compared to placebo in the mean ventricular rate by 9.4 
bpm  and  a  statistically  significant  reduction  of  the  QT  intervals.  No statistically  significant  changes 
were detected for the change between treatment groups in QTc interval between the desloratadine and 
placebo  treatments.  Subgroup  analysis  (by  gender)  showed  that  change  in  ventricular  rate  was 
significant in females but  not in males and that a significant difference for change of the PR interval 
was seen for females but not for males. The reduction in QT interval was statistically significant for 
both males and females. 
In conclusion this study in which subjects with a baseline QTc < 420 msec received 9-fold the clinical 
dose, showed that there was no evidence of clinically relevant prolongation of the QTc interval.  
Psychomotor pharmacodynamics 
The primary objective of the psychomotoric study (study C98-551) was to evaluate and compare the 
relative  effects  on  psychomotor  performance  of  desloratadine  7.5  mg  with  and  without  alcohol  in 
healthy volunteers. The study was conducted as a single-centre, single dose, double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled,  4-way  crossover  study.  All  subjects  (14F/11M,  21-54  years)  received  all  4 
treatments and there was at least a 5-day washout between each treatment. The subjects completed a 
Digit  Symbol  Substitution  Test  (DSST),  Serial  Add  Subtract  (ANAM  Battery),  Psychomotor 
Vigilance Test, Stanford Sleepiness Scale, and Modified Romberg’s Test.  
No significant differences in the psychomotor tests were found between the desloratadine 7.5 mg and 
placebo groups, whether given alone or with alcohol. 
The influence  of  desloratadine  on the  ability to  drive  and  use  machines  was investigated  in a single 
dose,  3  way  crossover  study  in  18  healthy  volunteers.  The  results  were  submitted  as  part  of  the 
answers to the List of Questions. The over-the-road driving test showed the effect of desloratadine to 
be  similar  to that  of  placebo,  whereas  the  active  control  (diphenhydramine)  had  significantly  worse 
lateral deviation and longer braking time. The results are reflected in the SPC section 4.7. 
15/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The  influence  of  desloratadine  on  ability  to  fly  was  investigated  in  a  single  dose,  3-way  crossover 
study in 21 healthy volunteers. Desloratadine 5 mg produced no detrimental effects on tasks related to 
flying ability, including those tasks addressing vigilance, tracking, and complex task performance or 
on resource  management performance  or  on subjective sleepiness  for the  measured period  of 1 to 6 
hours  after  drug  administration.  Diphenhydramine,  used  as  an  active  control,  significantly  increased 
subject  sleepiness  and  impaired  performance  on  flying  ability  tasks.  While  the  sedative  effects  of 
multiple  dose  treatment  were  not  evaluated  in  this  study,  the  data  from  this  study  are  predictive  of 
long-term use of desloratadine as:  
1)  desloratadine  exhibits linear pharmacokinetics, as a result no unexpected accumulation has been 
2) 
3) 
observed after 28 days  
the  clinical  experience  with  treatment  periods  up  to  six  weeks  has  shown  a somnolence  rate no 
different from placebo and  
there were no reports of sedation following administration of desloratadine 45 mg (nine-fold the 
clinical dose). 
The results  were introduced in section 5.1 of the tablet SPC following a Type II  variation. Identical 
wording  was  later  introduced  in  the  SPC  of  the  syrup  and  oral  lyophilisate  following  a  Type  II 
variation. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The plasma  drug  concentration  assay  methods  changed  during the  clinical  development.  A sensitive 
and  specific  LC/MS/MS  method  for  quantification  of  desloratadine  and  3-OH  desloratadine  was 
validated with a limit of quantitation (LOQ) of 0.025 ng/ml for both analytes. This method was used in 
studies C98-352 to C98-357, P00117, P00275, P00311, P01196, and P01380. Studies 197-248, C98-
013 and C98-215 used a GC/NPD method, which only quantified desloratadine (LOQ 0.1 ng/ml).  
Following  oral  administration  of  5  or  7.5  mg  desloratadine,  peak  plasma  concentrations  are  usually 
obtained  between  approximately  2  to  6  hours  after  dosing.  Food  has  no  effect  on  the  extent  of 
desloratadine absorption.  
Desloratadine is  extensively  metabolised and  only small  percentages of the  orally administered  dose 
are recovered in the urine (<2%) and faeces (<7%). The major metabolic pathway of desloratadine is 
hydroxylation  in  position  3  to  form  3-OH-desloratadine  that  is  glucuronidated  and  the  glucuronide 
conjugate is subsequently excreted in the urine and the bile. The elimination plasma half-life is about 
20 to 30 hours. 
Desloratadine has been shown to exhibit linear kinetics over the dose range 5 to 20 mg. Steady state 
was generally reached by day 7. 
In  a  randomised  multiple-dose  study  comparing  the  steady  state  pharmacokinetic  profiles  following 
oral  administration  of  5  mg  (once  daily)  desloratadine  with  those  obtained  following  multiple  dose 
administration  of  10  mg  loratadine  (once  daily),  plasma  concentrations  of  desloratadine,  3-OH-
desloratadine and 3-OH-desloratadine glucuronide were observed to be very similar.  
A  phenotypic  polymorphism  in  the  metabolism  of  desloratadine  was  observed  in  8.6%  of  the 
population  evaluated  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  The  frequency  of  slow  metabolisers  is 
estimated to be about 4% based on the pharmacokinetic study P00275, in which the demographics of 
the  subjects  are  comparable  to  those  of  the  general  SAR  population.  In  slow  metabolisers  the  half-
lives  are  much  longer  (greater  than    60  hours)  andwith  median  AUC  values  approximately  6-fold 
higher. Maximum desloratadine concentration was about 3-fold higher at approximately 7 hours with 
a  terminal  phase  half-life  of  approximately  89  hours.  The  major  route  of  elimination  by  a  slow 
metaboliser  is  via  excretion  of  unchanged  drug  into  urine  and  faeces.  The  amount  of  3-OH-
desloratadine and unchanged drug is less than 10% and over 42% respectively compared to 51% and 
8.4% in normal metabolisers. The metabolism does not appear to be mediated by a known cytochrome 
450 enzyme. The applicant will perform further studies on the metabolism. 
The  effects  of race  (Blacks versus Caucasians) and  gender  on the pharmacokinetics of  desloratadine 
following administration of 7.5 mg once daily for 14 days were relatively small. On average AUC and 
Cmax  values  for  desloratadine  and 3-OH desloratadine  were  higher in  females (3-10% and 45-48%, 
respectively) compared with males.  
16/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Mean AUC and Cmax for desloratadine were higher in Black compared with Caucasian subjects (18-
32%), while  mean  AUC and Cmax  values  for 3-OH-desloratadine  were lower (10%). Therefore,  no 
dose adjustment is needed for race or gender. 
Protein binding to human plasma protein ranges from 83 to 87%.  
Studies in special populations (C98-354, P00272, C98-335) 
In study C98-354 the pharmacokinetics of desloratadine was investigated in subjects with normal liver 
function (n=8) as compared to patients with various degrees of stable chronic liver disease (n=12).  
The study showed that patients with hepatic dysfunction  had mean AUC and Cmax values that were 
up  to  2.3  and  2.4  times  greater,  respectively,  than  healthy  subjects  and  that  a  single-dose  of 
desloratadine  7.5  mg  administered  to  subjects  with  various  degrees  of  hepatic  dysfunction  was  safe 
and well tolerated. 
In  response  to  the  List  of  Questions  interim  results  were  submitted  from  a  multiple  dose  study 
(P00272)  in  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment.  The  study  is  a  Phase  I,  open  label,  multiple  dose, 
parallel  group  study  comparing  the  pharmacokinetics  of  desloratadine  and  3-OH-desloratadine.  The 
interim results include 20 subjects (10 men, 10 women, 40-66 years, 9 healthy and 11 with moderate 
hepatic impairment. Normal metabolisers with moderate hepatic impairment could experience a 3-fold 
increase in the desloratadine exposure (median AUC). However, no apparent difference between the 
exposure to desloratadine in slow metabolisers with and without hepatic impairment was seen. Given 
that the increase in median exposure between normal and poor metabolisers is 6-fold and that there is 
no  major  differences  in  the  safety  profile  for  poor  and  normal  metabolisers  a  dose  reduction  is 
therefore not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment.  
The safety profile of desloratadine in patients with renal insufficiency was studied in a Phase I, single 
dose  study  (C98-335),  for  which  the  report  was  submitted  as  part  of  the  answers  to  the  List  of 
Questions.  The  study  included  37  subjects  (12  healthy  subjects,  25  patients  with  chronic  renal 
insufficiency, 26 men and 11 women, 26-70 years). Patients with varying degrees of renal impairment, 
who  were  normal  metabolisers  has  a  1.5-2.5  fold  increase  in  AUC  for  desloratadine  and  minimal 
changes  in  3-OH-desloratadine  concentrations.  Therefore  a  warning  concerning  the  use  in  patients 
with renal impairment is recommended. This is reflected in the SPC (see section 4.4 Special warnings 
and special precautions for use). 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  desloratadine  were  evaluated  in  17  subjects  >  65  years  of  age  who 
participated  in  a  multiple  dose  (5  mg,  o.d.  x  10  days)  study.  The  mean  AUC  and  Cmax  were  20% 
greater  than  in  subjects  <  65  years  old.  The  mean  plasma  elimination  t½  was  prolonged  by 
approximately  30%  (33.7  hours).  Based  on  these  results  dose  adjustment  in  the  elderly  is  not 
warranted. 
Interaction studies (C98-352, C98-353, P01380, P01378, P01868) 
No  clinically  relevant  changes  in  desloratadine  plasma  concentrations  were  observed  in  the 
ketoconazole and erythromycin interaction studies. 
The  enzyme(s)  as  well  as  the  tissue  site(s)  responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  desloratadine  to  its 
primary metabolite 3-OH-desloratadine has not yet been identified. However, it is anticipated that the 
potential for PK interactions of desloratadine with classical CYP450 inducers and inhibitors is low, as 
the metabolism does not appear to be mediated by a known cytochrome P450 enzyme. The inhibition 
spectra  of  desloratadine  was  evaluated  using  five  cytochrome  P450  enzymes:    CYP1A2,  CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6 in human liver microsomes. Desloratadine and 3-OH desloratadine 
did  not  significantly  inhibit  any  of  the  five  enzymes.  This  property  and  that  desloratadine  is  not  a 
substrate or an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein was included in the SPC in Section 5.2 through a Type II 
variation. 
The  drug  interaction  potential  of  slow  metabolisers  is  considered  to  be  low,  because  neither 
desloratadine  nor  3-OH-desloratadine  inhibits  known  CYP450  enzymes  and  because  any  drug  or 
xenobiotic that inhibits the metabolism of desloratadine to 3-OH-desloratadine would be unimportant 
since the enzyme is impaired in "slow" metabolisers. Also the safety profile of the subjects identified 
17/60 
EMEA 2004 

 
 
 
 
as "slow" metabolisers in the ketoconazole (n=8) and erythromycin (n=1) interaction studies were not 
different from the normal metabolisers in the studies. 
Study  P01380  evaluated  the  effect  of  grapefruit  juice  on  desloratadine  and  fexofenadine  (FX) 
pharmacokinetics. 19 of the 24 subjects were Hispanic (from the Miami area). The bioavailability of 
DL,  measured in terms of plasma DL and 3-OH DL levels, was unaltered,  while  FX Cmax and  AUC 
were reduced by ∼ 30 % in the presence of grapefruit juice.   
The effects of grapefruit juice are not limited only to inhibition of CYP3A4, but also involve transport 
mediated uptake and efflux absorption processes, namely OATP and P-gp. 
Given the potential importance of these transport processes as discussed in the ‘Note for Guidance on 
Drug Interactions’, the information that desloratadine has a low potential for interactions at the 
absorption site was added to section 4.5 of the SPC through a Type II variation. 
The results of two separate controlled, parallel-group clinical pharmacology studies (P01378, 
P01868), characterising the effects of Fluoxetine and Cimetidine on the pharmacokinetics of 
desloratadine were submitted in a Type II application. The results showed that CYP2D6 does not play 
a major role in the metabolism of desloratadine. This is consistent with results from the in vitro 
inhibition studies that predicted that desloratadine would not produce any clinically relevant inhibition 
of CYP2D6. The use of fluoxetine was questioned, as fluoxetine itself is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. 
In the response the MAH pointed to two in vitro studies submitted in the original Marketing 
Authorisation application for desloratadine film-coated tablets. These two studies were carried out 
using two validated probe substances (bufuralol and dextrometorphan) and indicated that high 
concentrations of desloratadine did not inhibit CYP2D6. That desloratadine administration does not 
affect fluoxetine metabolism in vivo supports the conclusion that clinically relevant inhibition of 
CYP2D6 is not expected in the recommended daily dose of 5 mg desloratadine. The information on 
interactions in section 5.2 in the tablet SPC was slightly altered following the Type II variation to state 
that desloratadine does not inhibit CYP3A4 in vivo, and in vitro studies have shown that the drug does 
not inhibit CYP2D6. Identical wording was later introduced in the SPC of the syrup and oral 
lyophilisate following a Type II variation. 
Bioequivalence study 
The  study  was  performed  as  a  3-way  crossover  bioequivalence  study  comparing  two  capsule 
formulations containing mainly either one of the two polymorph forms of desloratadine with the to-be-
marketed 5  mg tablet as reference. The study  demonstrated bioequivalence between the two  capsule 
formulations and the reference formulations as well as between the two capsule formulations. 
Clinical efficacy in seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
The clinical efficacy and safety studies were conducted according to GCP. The design, dose, duration, 
the number of patients and the demographic characteristics of these patients are given below: 
Study 
number 
Study design 
Dose 
Duration 
C98-001 
C98-223 
Double-blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel 
group,  randomised  efficacy  and  safety 
dose-finding study 
Double-blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel 
group,  randomised  efficacy  and  safety 
study 
2.5mg,  5mg,  7.5mg,  10mg  or 
20mg o.d. for 14 days 
5mg or 7.5mg o.d. for 14 days 
N° of patients 
(randomised/treated/ITT) 
Age range (years) 
Sex distribution 
1036/1036/1026 
12-75 
423M – 613F 
496/496/493 
12-72 
181M – 315F 
18/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C98-224 
C98-225 
Double-blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel 
group,  randomised  efficacy  and  safety 
study 
Double-blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel 
group,  randomised  efficacy  and  safety 
study 
5mg or 7.5mg o.d. for 14 days 
5mg or 7.5mg o.d. for 4 weeks 
492/492/489 
12-73 
168M – 324F 
475/475/474 
12-75 
162M – 313F 
The  symptoms  evaluated  in  the  Phase  II  and  III  studies  were  nasal  symptoms:  rhinorrhea,  nasal 
stuffiness/congestion,  nasal  itching,  sneezing;  and  non-nasal  symptoms:  itching/burning  eyes, 
tearing/watering eyes, redness of eyes and itching of ears and palate. In addition, cough was assessed 
in studies C98-223, C98-224 and C98-225. In all studies the symptoms were assessed using a 4 point 
verbal rating scale from 0 to 3, with 0 being no symptoms and 3 being severe symptoms. 
The symptom scores were collected twice daily, in both a reflective (how the patient has been feeling 
the  preceding  12  hours),  and  instantaneous  or  now  (how  the  subject  was  feeling  at  the  time  of 
assessment) fashion. The former method of data collection provided information on how effective the 
treatment had been throughout the day, whereas the latter provided information on the efficacy at the 
end of the entire dosing interval (24 hours). The scores from the eight/nine symptoms were summed 
up to a total score. 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  2-week  average  change  from  baseline  of  the  subjects’  total 
reflective symptom scores. In the onset of action studies the primary efficacy endpoint was the change 
from  baseline  in  total  symptom  score  and  the  time  to  onset  defined  as  the  first  time  point  that 
desloratadine was statistically superior to placebo and remained so thereafter. 
Secondary  endpoints  were:  total  nasal,  total  non-nasal  and  individual  symptom  scores,  overall 
condition of SAR and therapeutic responses. 
The  overall  condition  of  SAR  was  evaluated  jointly  by  the  investigator/designee  and  the  subject  at 
baseline and all subsequent visits according to the scale below. The score was based on the entire time 
interval since the last visit, and graded as for severity of signs and symptoms on a  four point verbal 
rating scale from 0 to 3, where 0 is no symptom evident and 3 being severe symptoms. 
The  subject  and  physician/designee  evaluated  the  therapeutic  response  jointly  at  each  visit  after 
baseline  on  a  5  point  verbal  rating  scale  from  1  to  5,  with  1  being  complete  relief  and  5  being 
treatment failure. 
In addition, quality of life (QOL) was measured in studies C98-223, C98-224 and C98-225. The QOL 
variables included the 8 SF-36 scales, the 2-component summary scores of the SF-36, and the 8 scales 
of  the  rhinoconjunctivitis  QOL  questionnaire.  Additionally,  an  overall  rhinoconjunctivitis  score  was 
calculated as an average of all items. Both the SF-36 and rhinoconjunctivitis-specific HQOL used the 
past week as the reference period for assessment. 
Major  exclusion  criteria  in  the  trials  included  asthma  (requiring  chronic  use  of  inhaled  or  systemic 
steroids), current history of frequent, clinically significant sinusitis or chronic purulent postnasal drip, 
rhinitis  medicamentosa,  upper  respiratory  tract  or  sinus  infection  that  required  antibiotic  therapy 
within 14 days prior to screening, or viral upper respiratory infection within 7 days prior to screening, 
nasal structural abnormalities (large nasal polyps, marked septal deviation) that significantly interfere 
with  nasal  air  flow  and  dependency  upon  nasal,  oral  or  ocular  decongestants,  nasal  topical 
antihistamines, or nasal steroids. 
The Intent-to-treat (ITT) population was defined as all randomised subjects who received at least one 
dose  of  study  medication  and  had  both  baseline  and  some  post-baseline  data.  All  analysis  were 
performed on this population. The Efficacy-Evaluable population was defined as randomised subjects 
who  had  no  key  protocol  violations.  Confirmatory  efficacy  analyses  on  the  primary  variable  were 
based on this subset of subjects. Assessment of the subjects’ evaluability was done prior to unblinding 
the treatment code. 
In  the  four  multiple  dose  SAR  studies  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  analysed  as  per  the  study 
protocols  using  a  two-way  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA).  Statistical  analyses  were  also  performed 
based  on  pooled  data  from  the  four  multiple  dose  SAR  studies.  The  pooled  analyses  employed  two 
mixed effects models performed on the pooled 2 week average reflective total symptom score. 
19/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose-response study (C98-001):  
From the preclinical data it is anticipated that the human dose of desloratadine may be equal to ¼ to ½ 
that  of  loratadine,  and  its  effect  may  persist  for  24  hours.  Therefore,  the  applicant  has  chosen  to 
perform  its  clinical  program  starting  with  a  placebo  controlled  dose-finding  study  with  a  dose  of 
desloratadine ranging from 2.5 up to 20 mg.  
Based on the results of symptom scores and assessment of overall condition of SAR and response to 
therapy, all of the desloratadine doses except for the 2.5 mg dose were all more effective than placebo 
in the relief of SAR signs and symptoms.  
Primary endpoint (Total reflective symptom score excluding cough)  
Baseline 
Change from Baseline 
Treatment 
5 mg desloratadine 
7.5 mg desloratadine 
Placebo 
Mean 
Mean 
% change 
14.2 
13.9 
13.7 
- 4.3 
-4.3 
-2.5 
-28.0 
-26.7 
-12.5 
Desloratadine
vs. Placebo 
p-value 
< 0.01 
< 0.01 
5mg vs 7.5 mg 
p-value 
0.98 
At  almost  none  of  the  time  points  did  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  statistically  improve  the  overall 
condition  of  SAR  as  compared  to  placebo  (at  endpoint  day  15  p=0.13,  mean  change  from  baseline 
- 24.9% versus –19.6%).  
Joint subject-physician  evaluation of the therapeutic response results showed that desloratadine 5 mg 
o.d.  was  not  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo,  especially  at  the  later  visits.  At  the  two 
weeks evaluation the mean therapeutic response for 5 mg was 3.33 as compared to 3.56 for placebo 
(p=0.05) with 3 being moderate relief and 4 being slight relief. 
Based on the results of this study the two lowest effective doses  of desloratadine 5 and 7.5 mg were 
chosen for further studies. 
Study C98-223 
This study demonstrates that both doses of desloratadine (i.e., 5.0 and 7.5 mg o.d.) were statistically 
significantly  more  effective  than  placebo  for  a  majority  of  the  time  points  in  improving  total  (nasal 
and non-nasal combined) symptom scores. These statistically significant results were observed in the 
reflective total symptom score over Days 1-15 (primary endpoint) with a mean change for 5 mg of –
27.8% and –21.7% for placebo (p=0.03). The 7.5 mg o.d. dose (but not the 5 mg o.d. dose) was also 
statistically significantly different from placebo for the AM total instantaneous/now score with a mean 
change in total score of –27.4% for 7.5 mg compared to –19.5% for placebo (p<0.01).  
Comparing  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  with  placebo  at  the  primary  endpoint,  statistically  significant 
reductions  from  baseline  in  the  mean  individual  symptom  scores  were  restricted  to  sneezing, 
tearing/watering eyes and redness of eyes. 
At  almost  none  of  the  time  points  did  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  statistically  improve  the  overall 
condition of SAR as compared to placebo (endpoint p=0.59, -23.1% versus -22.3%). 
As  in  study  C98-001,  joint  subject-physician  evaluation  of  the  therapeutic  response  results  showed 
that  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  was  not  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo.  Again  this  was 
observed at the later visits (endpoint p=0.19, 3.50 for desloratadine 5 mg versus 3.66 for placebo). 
Significant  HQOL  improvement  were  observed  with  both  doses  of  desloratadine  for  some  of  the 
HQOL parameters and the overall score (p<0.05 for 5 mg compared to placebo, p<0.01 for 7.5 mg for 
overall score).  
Study C98-224  
In  this  study  5  mg  o.d.  of  desloratadine  was  numerically  better  than  placebo  during  early  treatment 
(day 2 - 4) and statistically significantly more effective than placebo at weeks 1, 2 and on average over 
Days 1-15 in improving total reflective symptom score whether including or excluding cough (p=0.02, 
20/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-30.4% versus -21.8% including cough; p=0.02, -30.2% versus -21.7% excluding cough). The 7.5 mg 
dose was not statistically superior to placebo in reducing total symptom score (including or excluding 
cough). 
In  contrast  to  7.5  mg  o.d.,  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  was  observed  to  be  statistically  significantly 
superior to placebo in  reducing  AM total instantaneous/now symptom score  at the primary  endpoint 
including/excluding  cough  (d2-15)  (p=0.03,  -26.7  versus  -19.4%  including  cough,  p=0.03,  -26.4 
versus –19.1% excluding cough). A same pattern of results was observed for the change from baseline 
in subject-evaluated total nasal and total non-nasal symptom score.  
Comparing  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  with  placebo  at  the  primary  endpoint,  statistically  significant 
reductions  from  baseline  in  the  mean  individual  symptom  scores  were  restricted  to  nasal  itching, 
sneezing, itchy/burning eyes and redness of eyes. 
Desloratadine 5  mg  o.d. statistically improved the  overall condition of SAR as compared to placebo 
(endpoint p=0.05, -26.9% versus -18.7%). 
Joint subject-physician  evaluation of the therapeutic response results showed that desloratadine 5 mg 
and 7.5 mg o.d. were both statistically significantly superior to placebo (p<0.01, mean at endpoint 3.5 
for 5 and 7.5 mg and 3.9 for placebo). 
Based on the Rhinoconjunctivitis QoL Questionnaire, the total score as well as some domains, showed 
statistically significant improvement for desloratadine 5 mg in comparison to placebo. 
Study C98-225  
Analysis based on the protocol-specified trend test for non-decreasing response with increasing dose 
resulted  in  a  statistically  significant  result  (p=0.04).  In  general  desloratadine  5  mg  o.d.  was  only 
slightly  numerically  more  effective  than  placebo  in  reducing  the  total  reflective  symptoms  score 
whether  including  or  excluding  cough  (p=0.35,  24.8%  versus  22.4%;  p=0.41,  24.6%  versus  22.3% 
respectively). Desloratadine 5  mg  was also  for the total AM instantaneous/now symptom score  with 
and  without  cough  not  significantly  more  effective than placebo (p=0.97, -20.7% for both 5  mg and 
placebo excluding coughing, p=0.84, -20.9% for 5 mg and -20.7% for placebo including coughing). 
The same conclusion can be drawn for the other secondary efficacy parameters (total nasal symptom 
score as well as the total non-nasal symptom score including and excluding cough). The 7.5 mg o.d. 
dose scored somewhat better, however, superiority was rather small.  
Comparing desloratadine 5 mg o.d. with placebo, no statistically significant reductions from baseline 
in the mean individual symptom scores were observed. 
At  none  of the time points  did  desloratadine 5  mg  o.d. statistically improve the  overall  condition  of 
SAR as compared to placebo (endpoint p=0.28, -25.1% versus -20.9%). 
Joint  subject-physician  evaluation  of  the  therapeutic  response  results  showed  no  statistically 
significant superiority for desloratadine 5 mg o.d. as compared to placebo (p=0.46, mean 3.7 for both 
placebo and 5 mg). 
Only trends toward improvement in HQOL assessments could be observed.  
Pooled efficacy data 
To  better  characterise  the  effects  of  desloratadine  and  to  better  characterise  treatment  effects  in 
subgroups  of  patients  a  statistical  analysis  was  performed  based  on  pooled  data  from  the  4  major 
clinical trials. Pooling  of  data  from these studies is  appropriate as they  had approximately the same 
number of patients and similar study design. One difference was that cough was not assessed in study 
C98-001. Statistical analyses of studies C98-223, C98-224 and C98-225 did not show a difference in 
results  whether  including  or  excluding  cough  from  the  total  symptom  score.  Consequently  efficacy 
analyses of the pooled data were based on the change from baseline in total reflective symptom score 
excluding  cough.  The  statistical  analyses  employed  two  mixed-effects  models.  Model  #1  extracted 
effects  for  study,  treatment  and  study-by-treatment  interactions,  with  study  and  study-by-treatment 
being random and treatment being fixed. Model #2 was used to study the effects of co-variates. Model 
#2 extracted effects for study, treatment, sex, race, sex-by-treatment, race-by-treatment and study-by-
treatment interaction. Study and study-by-treatment being random and the other effects fixed.  
21/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The pooled analyses (Model #1) for the primary efficacy variable is given below. 
Primary efficacy parameter (Total reflective symptom score) 
Treatment 
Baseline 
(mean) 
Change from 
baseline 
Desloratadine versus 
Placebo (p - value) 
5 mg vs 7.5 mg  
(p – value) 
5.0 mg desloratadine 
7.5 mg desloratadine 
Placebo 
657 
659 
655 
16.1 
16.0 
16.1 
Mean 
-4.5 
-4.6 
-3.4 
% 
-27.7 
-27.4 
-19.4 
0.02 
0.02 
- 
0.78  
- 
- 
For total symptoms from patient diaries during the first 2 weeks of treatment, pooled data showed a 
mean  symptom  reduction  with  desloratadine  5  mg  of  27.7%  versus  a  placebo  reduction  of  19.4% 
(p=0.02). The mixed-effects model #1 confirmed that the symptom reduction seen following 5 mg was 
not different from the one seen following 7.5 mg. 
Pooled data for secondary efficacy analysis showed similar reductions as those observed with the total 
symptoms  data. Total instantaneous/now symptom scores at the end  of the  dosing interval showed  a 
reduction  of  24.3%,  25.3%  and  17.7%  for  desloratadine  5  mg,  desloratadine  7.5  mg  and  placebo, 
respectively.  Similar  improvements  were  observed  in  total  nasal,  total  non-nasal  and  individual 
symptoms,  as  well  as in  physician and patient  evaluation  of therapeutic response  and assessment  of 
overall disease condition.  
HQOL analysis in studies C98-223, C98-224 and C98-225 indicated that SAR produced a mild burden 
of  disease.  Improvements  in  subject-physician  evaluations  of  clinical  response  to  treatment  were 
associated with improvements in HQOL. 
Results from model #2 indicated a strong  effect in  favour  of  desloratadine  (combined 5 and 7.5  mg 
dose groups) over placebo (p=0.003), and that there was no significant sex-by-treatment (p=0.30) or 
race-by-treatment (p=0.78) interactions. 
An  evaluation  of  the  effect  of  age  group  on  the  treatment  effect  based  on  the  pooled  data  was 
submitted in response to the List of Questions. Results showed that in the age group 12-18 years the 
clinical effect of desloratadine (pooled analysis 5 and 7.5 mg) shows only a numerical trend in favour 
of  desloratadine  but  the  sample  size  in  this  age  group  is  not  sufficient  to  demonstrate  statistical 
significance. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
There were no studies in special populations. 
Supportive studies 
Four supportive studies (C98-226, I98-367, I98-448 and P00287) were performed to  evaluate onset-
of-action.  In  total  783  patients  were  included  in  these  four  studies  out  of  which  508  received 
desloratadine. 
Study C98-226 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  evaluate  the  onset  of  action  of  5  mg  desloratadine 
compared  to  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  SAR  exposed  to  pollen  in  an  outdoor  setting  (July  – 
September  1998).  The  placebo  group  in  this  setting  had  an  unexpectedly  high  response  with  a 
reduction  in  total  symptom  score  by  46%  over  the  5  hour  study  period  compared  to  51%  reduction 
following 5  mg  desloratadine.  As there was  no statistical  difference between the active  and placebo 
groups,  the onset of effect could not be evaluated in this study. 
Study I98-367 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the onset of action of 5 or 7.5 mg desloratadine 
compared to placebo in the treatment of SAR exposed to ragweed pollen in an environmental exposure 
unit.  
For the 5 mg desloratadine group the onset-of-action occurred at 2 h post-dose, based on analysis of 
the subject evaluated total symptom score excluding cough and at 3 h post-treatment based on analysis 
including cough. For the 7.5 mg group the onset-of-action occurred at 4 h post-treatment, irrespective 
22/60 
EMEA 2004 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the inclusion or exclusion of cough in the analysis. Almost the same observations were done for the 
secondary  efficacy  parameters  (e.g.,  subject  evaluated  total  nasal  symptom  score,  subject  evaluated 
total non-nasal symptom score). Efficacy of the 5 mg dose occurred at 2h30 up to 3 h whilst efficacy 
of the 7.5 mg dose occurred at 1 to 1h30 later. Reduction of the individual symptom scores was even 
observed to occur somewhat later. 
Study I98-448 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the onset of action of 5 or 7.5 mg desloratadine 
compared to placebo in the treatment of SAR utilising the exposition to 1500 grass pollen grains / m3 
of air in the Vienna Challenge Chamber.  
For the 5 mg desloratadine group the onset-of-action occurred at 1h15min post-dose, based on analysis 
of  the  subject  evaluated  total  symptom  score  including  or  excluding  cough.  For  the  7.5  mg 
desloratadine group the onset of action occurred at 3h30min post-treatment, irrespective of inclusion 
or  exclusion of  cough in the  analysis. For the secondary  efficacy parameters (e.g., subject  evaluated 
total nasal symptom score, subject evaluated total non-nasal symptom score) onset of action occurred 
somewhat later. Again relief of symptoms was quicker in the 5 mg dose compared to the 7.5 mg dose. 
Study P00287 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the onset of action of 5mg desloratadine compared 
to placebo in the treatment of SAR utilising the exposition to 1500 grass pollen grains/m3 of air in the 
Vienna Challenge Chamber.  
Onset  of  action  occurred  at  1h45min  post-dose,  based  on  analysis  of  the  subject  evaluated  total 
symptom score. For the secondary efficacy parameters a) subject evaluated total nasal symptom score 
and b) subject evaluated total non-nasal symptom score) onset of action occurred at 1h45min and 3h 
respectively. For the subject-evaluated therapeutic response the first statistically significant difference 
versus placebo was observed at 2h post-dose. 
Discussion on efficacy 
The data provided support the claim that doses of 5 mg or 7.5 mg are effective in reducing symptoms 
of Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis as compared to placebo. The claim is backed by the pattern of responses 
in  the  four  multiple-dose,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled  and  parallel  group  trials.  The  results  are 
corroborated by a pooled analysis of the four trials, which showed desloratadine 5 and 7.5 mg to be 
superior to placebo and the effect of the two desloratadine doses not to be significantly different.  
In the dose-ranging study the reduction of symptom scores was restricted to 28% from baseline. The 
limited reduction in symptom scores is also seen in the other three multidose trials. The mean change 
following  desloratadine  5  and  7.5  mg  might  be  statistically  significantly  higher  than  following 
placebo,  but  the  numerical  difference  is  small.  In  response  to  the  List  of  Questions  concerning  the 
magnitude of effect of desloratadine the applicant explained that the mean change from baseline in the 
primary  efficacy  parameter  of  Total  Symptom  Score  was  relatively  consistent  across  the  4  clinical 
efficacy trials, ranging from -4.2 (-24.6%) to -5.1 (-30.2%) units. On the other hand, the mean change 
from baseline in Total Symptom Score for the placebo group was more variable, ranging from -2.5 (-
12.5%) to -3.9 (-21.7%). The variability and magnitude of the placebo response is difficult to explain, 
although it is likely due to variability in regional pollen counts. 
To  confirm  that  the  magnitude  of  improvement  in  SAR  symptoms  observed  is  consistent  with  the 
expected  response  for  an  antihistamine  in  this  disease  state,  the  applicant  compared  the  differences 
(delta) in mean reduction in symptom scores between desloratadine and placebo with those reported in 
recent  publications  for  other  antihistamines.  The  magnitude  of  the  clinical  effect  following 
administration  of  5.0  mg  desloratadine  was  seen  to  be  comparable  to  that  published  for  other 
antihistamines that are currently used in medical practice. However, it seems from the percentage of 
improvement in Total Symptom Score that the clinical efficacy of 5 mg desloratadine is probably not 
superior to 10 mg loratadine. 
The applicant had received scientific advice on the duration of the clinical studies from the CPMP in 
1998, stating that in general, studies testing the  efficacy  of  a  medicinal product in SAR last 2 to 12 
weeks,  with  duration  of  4  to  6  weeks  in  most  of  the  studies.  The  applicant  was  therefore  asked  to 
23/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
explain  the  duration  of  2-4  weeks  studies  with  desloratadine.  The  applicant  explained  that  the 
available  patient  population  is  actually  not  reliably  symptomatic  (for  the  purposes  of  an  efficacy 
clinical trial) for more than 2-4 weeks. This is due to the variable duration of the pollen season and the 
variability in the onset of at least moderate symptoms in individual SAR patients. For a valid efficacy 
comparison  vs.  placebo,  it  is  important  to  assure  that  the  patients  have  the  opportunity  to  exhibit 
significant SAR symptoms throughout the duration of the study.  In addition, a review of the literature 
was conducted through a Medline search from 1985-1999. The search conditions were studies of SAR 
in which efficacy was assessed in subjects over 12  years of age, using only oral antihistamines, in a 
double-blind,  placebo  controlled  fashion.  This  search  yielded  26 publications,  out  of  which  5  had  a 
duration  of  28  days  or  more.  In  the  publications  reporting  studies  over  2  weeks  in  duration,  the 
efficacy of placebo increases over time, leading to a progressive decrease in the difference between the 
active treatment and the placebo groups. This  increase  in  placebo  response  may  be  due  to  varying 
pollen  counts  over  time.  Therefore,  with  longer  study  duration,  the  likelihood  increases  that  study 
subjects  on  placebo  groups  (as  well  as  those  receiving  desloratadine)  will  experience  a  significant 
amount of days without being exposed to the pollen that triggers their symptoms. Furthermore subjects 
were required  in all studies to be  experiencing  moderate to severe symptoms at study screening and 
baseline. This likely led to subjects being enrolled at the peak of their exposure to the pollen they were 
sensitised to. This peak will not last for 4 weeks. Therefore, subjects in the placebo groups (as well as 
those  receiving  desloratadine)  were  very  likely  exposed  to  a  progressively  decreasing  amount  of 
pollen  throughout  the  study.  This  was  considered  to  be  an  acceptable  explanation  for  the  short 
duration of the clinical trials. 
In  the  List  of  Questions  the  applicant  was  asked  to  explain  the  influence  of  the  seasons  the  studies 
were conducted in and the possible influence of mould spores. C98-001 was conducted in the spring 
season in the US, whereas C98223, C98-224 and C98225 had been conducted in the autumn season in 
US. In  the spring tree pollens are  followed in the  early  summer by  grass pollen, which is similar to 
Europe. In the autumn  the trees  and  grasses  also pollinate in the southern states  of the  US, in  other 
areas ragweed and  other  weed pollens are present. This autumn pollination pattern  is also similar to 
that of many areas in Europe, where mugwort and ragweed are the major autumn pollen allergens. The 
pollen counts between C98-001 and  C98-223, C98-224 and C98-225 were different, as these studies 
were  conducted  in  different  seasons.  The  mould  levels  in  both  seasons,  though,  were  similar. 
However, the presence of mould and/or other inhaled allergens in patients screened for the study was 
neither  an  inclusion  nor  an  exclusion  parameter  assessed  in  these  trials.  The  subjects  enrolled  in 
C98001/223/224/225  were  required  at  entry  to  be  actively  symptomatic,  and  to  be  allergic  to  an 
allergen that was pollinating at the time of the study (either tree, grass or weed pollen). 
are 
data in the literature showing that the mechanism of action and symptoms of SAR are similar whether 
patients  are  sensitised  to  grass/tree  or  to  ragweed  pollens.  Therefore,  treatment  of  SAR  during  the 
spring  or  autumn  should  lead  to  similar  conclusions  with  regards  to  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  a 
compound. Furthermore the data provided in the response to the List of Questions showed that there 
was no direct correlation observed between pollen counts and symptom severity in the four studies. 
 There 
The three onset of action studies utilising controlled-exposure chambers showed that the subjects first 
became aware of significant improvement in their SAR symptoms as early as 1 hour 15 minutes and 
up  to  2  hours  following  desloratadine  5  mg.  Both  studies  that  evaluated  desloratadine  7.5  mg 
determined  the  onset  of  action  as  3  hours  30  minutes.  The  reason  why  the  7.5  mg  dose  had  an 
apparently longer onset of action than the 5.0 mg dose is not clear. 
As part of the List of Questions the applicant submitted the results of a study conducted in the Vienna 
Challenge Chamber (VCC) assessed the onset of action of desloratadine 5 mg in 28 subjects allergic to 
grass pollen. The study employed an open-label, noncomparative design in which subjects received a 
single  dose  of  desloratadine 5  mg  during  exposure to grass pollen in the  VCC. Onset of action  was 
defined, as the first time point at which there was at least a 25% reduction from baseline in the Total 
Symptom  Score.  On  the  basis  of  this  definition,  the  median  time  to  onset  was  48.5  minutes,  with  a 
95% confidence interval  of (38.0, 59.0).  Although this was an open-label study,  the results obtained 
are  consistent  with  the  75-minute  onset  time  obtained  in  I98-448,  which  was  also  conducted  in  the 
VCC. In conclusion, the onset of action for desloratadine has been demonstrated to occur from 1 to 2 
hours after administration.  
24/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy in Allergic Rhinitis (AR) 
The  clinical program to justify the  efficacy  and safety of 5 mg  desloratadine tablets in subjects with 
AR  included  the  SAR  studies  submitted  in  the  initial  Marketing  Authorisation  Application,  two 
studies  in  patients  with  SAR  and  concomitant  asthma  and  two  studies  in  patients  with  Perennial 
Allergic Rhinitis. 
Treatments/ 
Dosing 
Treatment 
Duration 
Subjects/ 
Sex/age range 
Clinical Studies Conducted With Desloratadine 
Design  
Study No/Title. 
Objective 
SAR studies (all included in initial MAA) 
C98-001 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
C98-223 
C98-224 
C98-225 
PAR studies  
P00218 
2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10 and 
20 mg DL once daily 
vs placebo once daily 
5.0 and 7.5 mg DL 
once daily vs placebo 
once daily 
5.0 and 7.5 mg DL 
once daily vs placebo 
once daily 
5.0 and 7.5 mg DL 
once daily vs placebo 
once daily 
2 weeks 
2 weeks 
2 weeks 
4 weeks 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
5.0 mg DL once daily 
vs placebo once daily 
4 weeks 
P00219 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
5.0 mg DL once daily 
vs placebo once daily 
4 weeks 
SAR/Asthma studies  
P00214 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
P00215 
Randomised, double-
blind, parallel groups 
Safety and 
efficacy 
5.0 mg DL once daily 
vs placebo vs 10 mg 
montelukast  
5.0 mg DL once daily 
vs placebo vs 10 mg 
montelukast 
4 weeks 
4 weeks 
423 male/ 613 
female 
12-75 years 
181 male/ 315 
female 
12-72 years 
168 male/ 324 
female 
12-73 years 
162 male/ 313 
female 
12-75 years 
199 males/ 477 
females 
11-79 years 
232 males/ 466 
females 
12-80 years 
171 males/ 330 
females 
15-75 years 
166 males/ 257 
females 
15-68 years 
A total of 4,797 subjects were  evaluated in these studies, of  which 1,655 subjects  were treated  with 
5 mg desloratadine once daily. 
The  desloratadine  clinical  program  was  designed  and  conducted  in  accordance  with  relevant  Good 
Clinical  Practice  and  ICH  guidelines  regarding  study  conduct,  record  keeping,  data  collection  and 
regulatory submission and under the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (1996). 
Subjects were required to have at least a two-year history of AR. They were also required to have had 
a positive skin test (prick or intradermal) response to an appropriate allergen within the 12 months 
prior to Screening. Subjects in all studies were to be clinically symptomatic at the Screening visit. 
Demographics at Baseline were similar across treatment groups. The subject population in this clinical 
program was generally representative of the overall demographics of allergy patients. Most subjects 
were between the ages of 18 and 64 years (87% in each treatment group) and Caucasian (>78%); 66% 
of subjects in each treatment group were female. 
In the MAH’s response to the Request for Supplementary Information it was clarified that subjects at 
baseline were required to have a minimum average score in the mild to moderate range (11 (SAR) and 
10 (PAR) out of 24 points). The subjects included did, however, have a higher mean baseline score 
(12.6-16.8 out of 24 points) corresponding to 36.2% having moderate to severe symptoms. The mean 
change in total symptoms score from baseline was analysed separately for the subgroups of patients 
with baseline total symptom score in the upper third of the severity scale. The treatment differences 
for these subgroups were representative of the results for all patients. It is therefore acceptable that the 
use of desloratadine is not restricted to subjects with mild to moderate allergic rhinitis. 
25/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justification of Dosage Regimen 
The justification for a DL 5 mg once daily dose selection in the treatment of SAR was summarised in 
the initial SAR Marketing Authorisation application. The DL 5 mg dose is justified for the treatment 
of allergic rhinitis, based on the significant overlap between SAR and PAR and the demonstration of 
equivalent exposure between DL 5 mg and loratadine 10 mg (as described in the SAR MAA). 
Efficacy Endpoints 
Efficacy  results of the prespecified, protocol-defined  primary  and secondary  efficacy  variables  from 
the  eight  studies  are  summarised  separately.  Slight  differences  between  the  SAR  and  PAR  studies 
preclude an appropriate pooling of the primary endpoints. However, a pooled analysis of the six SAR 
and  two  PAR  studies  was  carried  out  using  a  sum  of  the  four  common  nasal  symptoms  (nasal 
discharge,  nasal  itching,  sneezing,  and  congestion).  The  purpose  of  this  additional  analysis  was  to 
derive an overall estimate of the treatment effect. 
Subjects  self-evaluated  their  PAR  and  SAR  symptoms  twice  each  day  (am,  before  dosing,  and 
approximately 12 hours later in the pm) with both reflective (prior 12 hours) and instantaneous (now) 
scores.  The  symptoms  of  PAR  and  SAR  were  assessed  daily  by  the  subjects,  and  recorded  in  their 
diaries using a four-point scale: none (0), mild (1), moderate (2), and severe (3). 
The primary efficacy variable for SAR and the primary time point in the SAR studies is defined in the 
section ‘Clinical efficacy in seasonal allergic rhinitis’.  
The primary efficacy variable for PAR (P00218 and P00219) was the average am/pm instantaneous 
(now) total symptom score, excluding congestion.  
· Nasal:  
· Non-Nasal: 
nasal discharge, postnasal drip, nasal congestion, nasal itching, and sneezing. 
itching/burning eyes, tearing/watering eyes, and itching of ears/palate.  
The primary time point was the change from Baseline in average score over four weeks. 
Although patients in the PAR studies rated nasal congestion severity twice daily along with the seven 
other symptoms, the nasal congestion symptom score was not included in the primary endpoint. This 
consideration was based on the allowance of pseudoephedrine rescue medication in these studies and 
guidance issued from the FDA on clinical development programs for drug products in allergic rhinitis.  
The instantaneous evaluation of symptoms was chosen as the basis for the primary endpoint because 
PAR  symptoms  are  generally  understood  to  be  subtler  compared  to  SAR,  and  it  was  felt  the 
instantaneous symptom score would more accurately capture treatment effect. Clinical considerations 
served as the basis to evaluate rhinorrhea by capturing symptoms scores on both anterior and posterior 
nasal  discharge  (nasal  discharge  and  postnasal  drip,  respectively).  The  decision  not  to  evaluate  the 
non-nasal symptom of eye redness was also based on clinical consideration since eye redness is less 
pronounced in PAR compared to SAR. 
Allergic  rhinitis,  by  precise  definition,  refers  only  too  nasal  symptoms.  However,  the  term  is 
commonly used to include both nasal and non-nasal symptoms, even though the non-nasal symptoms 
are less pronounced in PAR.  
In  all  AR  studies,  the  secondary  variables  included  change  from  Baseline  in  total  nasal,  total  non-
nasal, and individual symptom scores for the 12-hour prior and now average am/pm assessments, as 
well as at the separate am and pm time points. For all studies, global variables  included the  Overall 
Condition  of  Disease  expressed  as  a  change  from  Baseline,  and  an  Evaluation  of  Therapeutic 
Response, expressed as a raw score. 
Statistical Evaluation  
The  primary  variable  at  the  designated  time  point  (Days  1-15  or  Days  1-29)  was  analysed  for  each 
study  using  a  two-way  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  that  extracted  sources  of  variation  due  to 
treatment and centre. All pair-wise comparisons were made at the two-sided 5% level of significance 
using the least squares means from the ANOVA. No adjustments for multiple comparisons were made 
in the four SAR studies because the test for statistical significance was performed using a dose-trend 
test.  In  the  SAR/Asthma  studies,  no  adjustments  for  multiple  comparisons  were  made  because  a 
stepwise procedure was employed. 
26/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
For  all  studies  included  in  this  dossier,  efficacy  results  was  presented  for  only  the  5-mg  DL  vs. 
placebo comparisons. 
All  analyses  of  efficacy  were  based  on  all  randomised  subjects  who  had  Baseline  and  some  post-
baseline efficacy data for a given efficacy variable (Intent-To-Treat principle). 
A pooled analysis of the six SAR and two PAR studies was carried out using the four common nasal 
symptoms (nasal discharge, nasal itching, sneezing, and congestion) evaluated across all eight studies  
referred to as the Common Total Nasal  Symptom  Score. The  sum  of  common  nasal symptom scores 
was analysed for the mean of the first two weeks for all eight studies, and the mean of four weeks for 
the five studies with four weeks of data (Studies C98-225, P00214, P00215, P00218 and P00219).  
A mixed-effect model was used to derive an overall estimate of treatment effect including treatment as 
a  fixed  effect  and  study  as  a  random  effect.  The  treatment-by-study  interaction  was  included  in  the 
model. In addition, each study was allowed its own estimate of variance in the model.  
Results Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
The results of the primary efficacy variable for the PAR studies (i.e., change in average am/pm now 
total symptoms score excluding congestion) from all eight studies are summarised in the table below.  
Total Allergic Rhinitis Symptom Score AM/PM Now average (excluding congestion) 
Baseline 
Day 1-15 (Change from baseline)a,b 
Day 1-29 (Change from baseline) a,b 
(n) 
(mean) 
(%) 
(p-value) 
(n) 
(mean) 
(%) 
(p-value) 
Treatment 
group 
C98-001   
5 mg 
Placebo 
C98-223   
5 mg 
Placebo 
C98-224   
5 mg 
Placebo 
C98-225   
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00218 
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00219 
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00214 
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00215 
5 mg 
Placebo 
(n) 
171 
173 
165 
165 
164 
163 
158 
158 
337 
337 
346 
349 
166 
160 
140 
138 
(mean) 
SARc 
12.0 
11.7 
SAR c 
14.1 
14.0 
SAR c 
14.4 
171 
173 
-3.6 
-2.1 
165 
-4.0 
164 
-3.1 
164 
-4.3 
161 
157 
158 
337 
337 
14.7 
SAR c 
14.3 
14.5 
PAR d 
10.7 
10.6 
PAR d 
346 
10.3 
11.0 
349 
SAR/Asthma c 
166 
12.4 
12.5 
160 
SAR/Asthma c 
140 
13.5 
138 
13.3 
-3.2 
-3.5 
-3.3 
-3.5 
-2.6 
-3.0 
-3.0 
-3.7 
-2.2 
-3.7 
-2.6 
-28.3 
-12.0 
-28.1 
-22.2 
-29.8 
-20.6 
-24.5 
-22.8 
-31.7 
-24.4 
-28.4 
-26.3 
-29.3 
-19.3 
-26.2 
-17.7 
<0.01 
0.04 
0.01 
0.62 
<0.01 
0.86 
<0.01 
0.02 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
157 
158 
337 
337 
346 
349 
166 
160 
140 
138 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-3.9 
-3.8 
-3.7 
-3.0 
-3.3 
-3.5 
-4.2 
-2.9 
-4.2 
-3.3 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-27.0 
-26.2 
-35.0 
-27.4 
-31.1 
-30.9 
-32.6 
-24.2 
-30.0 
-23.0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.83 
<0.01 
0.49 
<0.01 
0.04 
a: 
b: 
c: 
d: 
Days 1-15 and 1-29 interval data inclue PM data from Day 1 and AM and PM data for other days. 
Means are LS means from the ANOVA model with treatment and centre effects. Percentages are raw means. 
TOTAL SAR symptom score was the sum of 7 individual symptom scores – 3 nasal (rhinorrhea, nasal itching, and sneezing) and 
4 non-nasal (itching/burning eyes, tearing/watering eyes, redness of eyes, and itching of ears or palate) 
TOTAL PAR symptom score was the sum of 7 individual symptom scores – 4 nasal (rhinorrhea,postnasal drip/drainage, nasal 
itching, and sneezing) and 3 non nasal (itching/burning eyes, tearing/watering eyes, and itching of ears or palate) 
The  data are  consistent  with the  clinical  descriptions  of PAR and SAR, where SAR patients  exhibit 
more dramatic symptoms of AR (e.g., sneezing, itching, runny nose, etc) compared to PAR patients. 
Baseline scores were comparable between treatment groups in all studies except PAR Study P00219 in 
which the baseline symptoms scores  of the placebo group were almost  one point higher than that  of 
the DL-treated group. This difference was statistically different (p=0.002). A correction for Baseline 
imbalance in total symptom scores using an ANCOVA did not change the results from non-significant 
27/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to significant, although numerical superiority was in favour of DL (in the ANCOVA, Days 1-15 DL= 
-3.19,  placebo=-2.91,  p=0.223;  Days  1-29  DL=-3.49,  placebo=-3.40,  p=0.72),  by  contrast  to  the 
uncorrected  analysis  in  which  there  was  no  numerical  difference  (Days  1-15),  or  the  numerical 
superiority favoured placebo (Day 1-29).  
Overall,  the  5-mg  DL  dose  was  superior  to  placebo  with  respect  to  Days  1-15  average  am/pm  now 
symptom assessments in 6 of 8 studies (SAR Studies: C98-001, C98-223, C98-224, P00214, P00215 
and  PAR  Study  P00218).  Reduction  in  Days  1-15  am/pm  now  total  symptom  score  (average, 
excluding  congestion)  was  significantly  (p<0.04)  greater  in  the  5-mg  DL  group  vs.  placebo.  A 
numerical  advantage  over  placebo  was  found  for  the  5-mg  DL  group  in  SAR  Study  C98-225.  No 
numerical  advantage  was  observed  in  PAR  Study  P00219.  Across  all  studies,  total  symptom 
reductions  averaged  24.5%-32%  in  the  5-mg  DL  groups  compared  with  12%-26%  in  the  placebo 
groups. 
In 3 of 5 four-week studies (P00218, P00214 and P00215), reductions in Days 1-29 am/pm now total 
symptom  score  (average,  excluding  congestion)  were  significantly  greater  (p<0.04)  in  the  5-mg  DL 
group vs. placebo. 
Analyses of am/pm now total symptoms score results including congestion produced results similar to 
those shown in the table above. 
Confirmatory analyses  of the am/pm prior total symptom scores  excluding and including  congestion 
was  performed  for  all  studies.  The  results  were  consistent  with  those  presented  above  in  the  table 
above.  At  the  Day  1-15  time  point  (the  primary  endpoint  in  the  SAR  studies),  total  symptom 
reductions, whether including or excluding congestion, were significantly greater (p<0.05) in the 5-mg 
DL  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  in  6  of  8  studies  (SAR  Studies:  C98-001,  C98-223,  C98-224, 
P00214, P00125, and PAR Study P00128). Similar to the am/pm now data statistical significance for 
am/pm  prior  total  symptom  score  was  not  reached  in  SAR  Study  C98-225,  although  a  numerical 
advantage  over  placebo  was  demonstrated.  No  numerical  advantage  was  observed  in  PAR  Study 
P00219.  
In summary, results of Days 1-15 average am/pm prior total symptom score analyses were consistent 
with those of the Days 1-15 average am/pm now symptom assessments. The results showed that the 5-
mg DL dose was statistically superior to placebo for reduction in allergic rhinitis symptoms in 6 of 8 
AR  studies.  These  conclusions  were  not  changed  whether  or  not  congestion  was  included  as  a 
symptom. 
Results of pooled analysis 
To measure the treatment effect of DL across the allergic rhinitis studies, a pooled efficacy analysis of 
the  Common  Total  Nasal  Symptom  Score  (sum  of  nasal  discharge,  nasal  itch,  sneezing,  and 
congestion) for the 12-hour prior and now average am/pm assessments was performed. The results are 
shown in the tables below.  
Mean change from baseline in average am/pm Prior Common Total Nasal Symptom Score 
Endpoint 
2 weeks 
4 weeks 
Desloratadine 
N 
1646 
1146 
Mean 
-2.18 
-2.34 
Placebo 
N 
1639 
1142 
Mean 
-1.71 
-2.03 
Delta 
0.47 
0.31 
Mean change from baseline in average am/pm Now Common Total Nasal Symptom Score 
Endpoint 
2 weeks 
4 weeks 
Desloratadine 
N 
1646 
1146 
Mean 
-1.88 
-2.11 
Placebo 
N 
1640 
1142 
Mean 
-1.48 
-1.84 
Delta 
0.40 
0.28 
SEM 
0.07 
0.07 
SEM 
0.06 
0.09 
p-value 
0.002 
0.037 
p-value 
0.002 
0.086 
An  improvement  in  Common  Total  Nasal  Symptom  Score  was  seen  across  the  two-week  and  four-
week  endpoints  for  the  SAR  and  PAR  studies;  however,  two  studies,  C98-225  and  P00219,  had 
28/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
relatively small treatment effects. Overall, greater treatment effects are shown in the four-week studies 
at the two-week endpoint compared to the four-week endpoint.  
The am/pm prior Common Total Nasal Symptom Scores show a statistically significant improvement 
for DL compared to placebo over both the two-week and four-week treatment periods. Similarly, the 
pooled analysis of am/pm now Common Total Nasal Symptom Scores from the eight studies show a 
statistically significant improvement for DL compared to placebo over the two-week treatment period 
and  numerical  improvement  over  the  four  week  treatment  period.  The  estimates  of  the  treatment 
difference at both time-points support the overall efficacy of DL compared to placebo (15% to 27% of 
the placebo mean change from baseline). These pooled analyses confirm and support the results of the 
individual studies. 
Results Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
Among  the  secondary  efficacy  measurements,  am  now  total  symptom  score  provides  evidence  of 
therapeutic effect at the end of the dosing interval. This is clinically relevant because nasal symptoms 
tend to be most troublesome in the early morning hours for many allergic rhinitis patients. Results are 
summarised below. 
Total Allergic Rhinitis Symptom Score AM Now average (excluding congestion) 
Baseline 
Day 1-15 (Change from baseline)a 
Day 1-29 (Change from baseline) a 
(n) 
(mean) 
(%) 
(p-value) 
(n) 
(mean) 
(%) 
(p-value) 
Treatment 
group 
C98-001   
5 mg 
Placebo 
C98-223   
5 mg 
Placebo 
C98-224   
5 mg 
Placebo 
C98-225   
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00218 
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00219 
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00214 
5 mg 
Placebo 
P00215 
5 mg 
Placebo 
(n) 
171 
172 
165 
165 
164 
163 
158 
158 
337 
337 
346 
349 
166 
160 
140 
138 
(mean) 
SAR b 
12.0 
11.8 
SAR b 
14.1 
14.0 
SAR b 
14.3 
169 
172 
-3.3 
-2.1 
165 
-3.8 
163 
-2.9 
164 
-4.0 
161 
337 
337 
157 
158 
14.7 
SAR b 
14.3 
14.5 
PAR c 
10.7 
10.8 
PAR c 
346 
10.3 
349 
11.1 
SAR/Asthma b 
166 
12.5 
12.5 
160 
SAR/Asthma b 
140 
13.5 
138 
13.3 
-3.0 
-3.2 
-3.1 
-3.2 
-2.5 
-2.8 
-2.9 
-3.5 
-1.9 
-3.5 
-2.5 
-26.0 
-11.1 
-26.3 
-19.7 
-27.6 
-19.6 
-22.0 
-21.4 
-29.4 
-22.1 
-26.0 
-25.0 
-28.2 
-17.1 
-24.6 
-16.1 
<0.01 
0.04 
0.03 
0.89 
0.01 
0.88 
<0.01 
0.03 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
157 
158 
337 
337 
346 
349 
166 
160 
140 
138 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-3.5 
-3.6 
-3.5 
-2.8 
-3.1 
-3.4 
-4.0 
-2.6 
-4.1 
-3.2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-24.3 
-25.0 
-32.7 
-25.3 
-28.8 
-29.7 
-31.7 
-22.4 
-28.8 
-21.6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.84 
0.02 
0.34 
<0.01 
0.05 
a: 
b: 
c: 
Means are LS means from the ANOVA model with treatment and centre effects. Percentages are raw means. 
TOTAL SAR symptom score was the sum of 7 individual symptom scores – 3 nasal (rhinorrhea, nasal itching, and sneezing) and 
4 non-nasal (itching/burning eyes, tearing/watering eyes, redness of eyes, and itching of ears or palate). 
TOTAL PAR symptom score was the sum of 7 individual symptom scores – 4 nasal (rhinorrhea,postnasal drip/drainage, nasal 
itching, and sneezing) and 3 non nasal (itching/burning eyes, tearing/watering eyes, and itching of ears or palate) 
Similar to the am/pm now and prior total symptom score, in 6 of 8 AR studies (SAR Studies C98-001, 
C98-223,  C98-224,  P00214,  P00215,  and  PAR  Study  P00218),  5 mg  DL  was  significantly  more 
effective than placebo (p<0.04) in reducing am now total symptom scores over the first two-weeks of 
treatment (Days 2-15). Across all studies, am now total symptom score reductions, whether including 
or excluding congestion at Days 2-15 averaged 21%-29% for 5 mg DL compared with 11%-25% for 
placebo. In Studies P00214, P00215 and P00218 significant improvements (p<0.05) in am now total 
symptom scores were also observed over the entire four-week treatment period (Days 2-29). Total 
symptom  score  reductions  at  the  Day  2-29  time-point,  whether  including  or  excluding  congestion, 
averaged 23%-33% in the 5-mg DL groups compared with 21%-30% in the placebo groups. 
29/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  am  now  total  symptom  score  analyses  indicated  that  5 mg  DL  was  superior  to  placebo  for 
symptom reduction 24 hours after dosing. Significant reductions of symptoms were observed in 6 of 8 
AR  studies.  Improvement  of  symptoms  was  seen  over  both  the  two-week  and  four-week  treatment 
periods.  Corresponding  results  for  total  symptom  score  including  congestion  were  consistent  with 
results for am now total symptom score excluding congestion.  
In summary, efficacy is maintained for the full 24-hour dosing interval using once-a-day dosing. 
In all studies, results of additional AR variables, including assessment of total nasal, total non-nasal, 
and  individual  symptom  scores  were  consistent  with  am/pm  now  and  prior  total  symptom  score 
results. 
The investigator and subject jointly evaluated the Overall Condition of AR. Response was recorded on 
a scale of 0 (none) to 3 (severe). In all eight studies, DL was numerically more effective than placebo 
for improvement in Overall Condition of AR at the endpoint of each study. 
The investigator and subject also jointly evaluated Therapeutic Response at each post-baseline visit by 
comparing the current severity of disease symptoms to Baseline. Response was recorded on a scale of 
1  (complete  relief)  to  5  (treatment  failure).  In  all  eight  studies,  DL  was  numerically  more  effective 
than  placebo  for  positive  response  to  therapy.  Significant  improvements  compared  with  placebo 
(p<0.05)  were  seen  in  the  DL  5-mg  groups  of  SAR  Studies  C98-001,  C98-224,  and  PAR  Studies 
P00218 and P00219. 
Discussion on clinical studies 
In  two  out  of  five  four  week  studies  the  effect  of  desloratadine  was  not  superior  to  that  of  placebo 
measured  by  days  1-29  am/pm  total  symptom  score  (average  excluding  nasal  congestion)  and  the 
treatment  effects  shown  in  the  four  week  studies  were  greater  at  the  two  week  endpoint  than  at  the 
four  week  endpoint.  In  their  response  to  the  Request  for  Supplementary  Information  regarding  a 
maintained  effect  over  four  weeks  the  MAH  responded  that  efficacy  evaluated  by  standard 
methodology of twice daily symptom assessment captured in diaries is most clearly seen at the early 
timepoints and that difficulty in consistently demonstrating efficacy in clinical studies in AR has been 
acknowledged in FDA guidance and in the ICH E10 document. Furthermore, in the three out of five 
studies  in  which  desloratadine  showed  efficacy  superior  to  placebo  the  reduction  in  total  symptom 
score  from  baseline  increased  for  each  successive  week  of  treatment,  however,  increases  were  also 
seen for the placebo treated patients, whereby the difference was diminished. 
The CPMP questioned the clinical relevance of the findings as the therapeutic benefit (verum minus 
placebo) is limited especially days 16-29. In response the MAH submitted the findings of a responder 
analysis  for  nasal  symptoms  with  a  clinically  meaningful  improvement  in  response  to  desloratadine 
defined  as  a  25%  or  greater  improvement  in  common  total  nasal  symptoms  score.  Although  a 
significant higher number of responders was found in the verum group, this was a pooled analysis of 
the  SAR  and  PAR  studies  and  the  MAH  was  requested  in  a  Follow-On  Request  for  Supplementary 
Information to give the pooled analysis mean change from baseline in average am/pm now common 
total nasal symptom score for the PAR studies alone. 
The  MAH  submitted  the  results  of  the  pooled  analysis  of  mean  change  from  baseline  in  average 
Common Nasal Symptom Score am/pm now from the Perennial Allergic Rhinitis studies (P00218 and 
P00219), which are shown below. 
30/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Average Am/pm now Common Nasal Symptom Score for Perennial Allergic Rhinitis 
Endpoint 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
N=686 
Delta 
p-value 
N=683 
Mean 
-1.786 
-1.956 
Mean 
-1.537 
-1.754 
2 weeks 
4 weeks 
P-values are based on an analysis of covariance extracting sources of variation due to treatment, site, 
and baseline covariate effects 
0.249 
0.202 
0.009 
0.044 
The  reduction  in  average  am/pm  now  Common  Nasal  Symptom  Score  seen  with  desloratadine  was 
superior to that of placebo at both the 2 and 4 week endpoints (delta=0.249 and 0.202 and p=0.009 and 
0.044, respectively). 
The  MAH  carried  out  a  responder  analysis  using  the  same  definition  as  in  their  responses  to  the 
Request  for  Supplementary  information  (i.e.  a  clinically  meaningful  improvement  in  response  to 
desloratadine was a 25% or greater improvement in common total nasal symptoms score).  
The percentage of patients with ≥25% improvement was significantly larger for desloratadine treated 
patients  compared  to  placebo  at  both  2  and  4  week  endpoints  (p=0.012  and  p=0.018  respectively, 
based  on  the  Cochran-Mantel  Haenzel  statistic,  with  corrects  for  study  effect).  Over  half  of  the 
desloratadine patients  experienced a ≥25% improvement  at the 2 and 4  week  endpoints (50.7% and 
56.8%, respectively). 
PAR  is  primarily  a  disorder  manifested  by  chronic  nasal  symptoms  (i.e  nasal  discharge,  itching, 
sneezing and congestion). Thus, relief of troublesome nasal symptoms is of utmost importance to PAR 
sufferers. More than 50% of the desloratadine treated patients experienced a clinically meaningful and 
a statistically significant reduction in nasal symptoms over the 4 week study duration when compared 
to placebo. 
Conclusion on clinical studies 
The primary efficacy analyses of am/pm prior and am/pm now total symptom score demonstrated that 
DL 5 mg was superior to placebo for reduction in symptoms of AR in 6 of 8 studies (5 in SAR and 1 
in PAR), including the two studies conducted in subjects with SAR and concurrent asthma. The results 
of  the  pooled  analysis  of  the  common  nasal  symptoms  and  the  secondary  efficacy  variables  are 
consistent with the results of the primary parameter. The results of the pooled PAR studies showed a 
reduction in the average  am/pm now Common Total  Nasal Symptom Score seen  with  desloratadine 
was  superior  to  that  of  placebo  at  both  week  2  and  4  and  that  more  than  50%  of  the  desloratadine 
treated  patients  experienced  a  clinically  meaningful  and  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  nasal 
symptoms over the 4 week study duration when compared to placebo. 
Syrup and oral lyophilisate  
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  applied  through  a  Type  II  variation  for  the  same  extension  of 
indication for Aerius 0.5 mg/ml syrup and Aerius 5 mg oral lyophilisate. 
No new data were submitted. CPMP considered it acceptable based on the bioequivalence between the 
film-coated tablet and the syrup formulation and between the film-coated tablet and the oral 
lyophilisate. The allergic rhinitis indication was considered also to be applicable to the desloratadine 
0.5 mg/ml syrup for adults and adolescents and the desloratadine 5 mg oral lyophilisate, as it will be 
administered using the same dosage as the film-coated tablets presentation and for the oral lyophilisate 
also to the same population.  
The desloratadine 0.5 mg/ml syrup is also indicated for seasonal allergic rhinitis and chronic urticaria in 
children  (2  years  of  age  or  over).  As  perennial  rhinitis  is  a  disease  of  childhood  and  the  nature  and 
course of allergic rhinitis as well as the activity of antihistamines are similar in children and adults, the 
CPMP considered the new extended indication allergic rhinitis to be acceptable also in the age range 2 
to 12 years old. 
31/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy in Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (CIU) 
The clinical efficacy and safety studies were conducted according to GCP. The design, dose, duration 
and number of patients and demographic characteristics of the patients are given below. 
Clinical Studies Conducted With desloratadine in CIU 
Study No/Title. 
Design  
Objective 
Treatments/ 
Dosing 
Treatment 
Duration 
Blinding 
Centres/ 
Subjects/ 
Sex/age 
P00220: 
Efficacy and Safety in the treatment of 
Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (CIU) subjects 
with SCH 34117 
Placebo- 
Control 
Parallel 
Group 
P00221: 
Efficacy and Safety in the Treatment of 
Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (CIU)  subjects 
with SCH 34117 
Placebo- 
Control 
Parallel 
Group 
Efficacy 
and Safety 
SCH 34117, 
5 mg QD 
Placebo QD 
6 weeks 
Double Blind 
29/226 
M 56; F 170 
13-84 years 
Efficacy 
and Safety 
SCH 34117, 
5 mg QD 
Placebo QD 
6 weeks 
Double Blind 
29/190 
M 48; F 142 
12-79 years 
The  symptoms  evaluated  were  pruritus,  number  and  size  of  hives,  total  symptom  score  (sum  of 
pruritus,  number  of  hives  and  size  of  hives),  interference  with  sleep  and  daily  activities,  overall 
condition  and  therapeutic  response.  The  symptoms  were  scored  twice  daily  in  both  a  reflective  or 
PRIOR (how the subject was feeling for the preceding 12 hours), and instantaneous or NOW (how the 
subject was feeling a the time of the assessment).  
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was the change from baseline in the average reflective 
pruritus  score  (from  the  diary).  The  secondary  parameters  were  instantaneous/prior  pruritus  score, 
total symptom score, number and size of hives, interference with sleep and daily activities, response to 
therapy and determination of overall condition. 
Desloratadine  treatment  resulted  in  a  mean  change  from  baseline  in  the  average  reflective  pruritus 
score that was statistically significantly (p<0.001) higher than for placebo. 
Average pruritus score reduction in % from baseline (days 1- 8) 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
P00220 
47.9 
21.9 
P00221 
56.0 
21.5 
The mean score at baseline (for both treatment arms) was greater than two and reflects a moderate to 
severe baseline status. For desloratadine this was reduced to an average score of mild, while the mean 
score for the placebo-treated group remained closer to moderate. 
The  difference  in  the  pruritus  scores  between  desloratadine  and  placebo  remained  significantly 
different  over  the  entire  treatment  period.  Analyses  of  the  change  from  Baseline  in  the  average 
reflective  pruritus  score  (from  the  diary)  over  the  entire  treatment  period  (Days  1-42)  revealed 
statistically significant differences in both studies (p<0.01). 
Desloratadine treatment resulted in a mean reduction in pruritus from Baseline of 56.9% and 65.3%, 
respectively, in the two studies  compared to a  mean reduction  of 34.1% and 30.4%, respectively, in 
placebo treated subjects, measured over the entire treatment duration of 42 days. 
The  difference  in  the  pruritus  scores  between  desloratadine  and  placebo  remained  statistically 
significantly  different at all evaluated time points (up to the  entire treatment period  of six  weeks) in 
one study. 
This significance was not maintained beyond four weeks in the other study due to the higher placebo 
response  rate  caused  by  the  higher  discontinuation  rate  in  the  placebo  group.    Endpoint  analyses 
(analysis  of  last  valid  visit  for  each  patient),  which  adjust  for  the  differential  discontinuation  rate, 
revealed however that the difference between desloratadine and placebo was significant over the entire 
treatment period in both studies. The difference in these reductions was statistically significant in both 
studies (p=0.004 and p<0.001). The reduction in pruritus scores (at the end of the study) were 58.4% 
32/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and 67.5%, respectively, for the desloratadine treated subjects versus 40.4% and 33.5%, respectively, 
for the placebo treated subjects. 
Average pruritus score reduction in % from baseline (days 1- 42) 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
Non-adjusted values are put between brackets. 
P00220 
58.4 (56.9) 
40.4 (34.1) 
P00221 
67.5 (65.3) 
33.5 (30.4) 
There is evidence that patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria can be divided into 2 groups: those 
who do respond to antihistamines (approximately 85%) and those that are relatively resistant to 
antihistamines. These latter patients frequently require the addition of other drugs. Patients that were 
refractory to antihistamines were excluded from the two studies. This is reflected in the SPC section 
5.1. 
In the two clinical studies a total of 22 subjects was in the age range 12 to 17 years and 17 subjects 
were ≥65 years of age. Of these 13 adolescents and 8 geriatric subjects received desloratadine 5 mg. 
The results for these two groups and the age group 18-64 is given below. 
Mean change from baseline in pruritus score AM/PM prior 12 hours (days 1- 8) (P00220, P00221) 
12-17 year olds 
18-64 year olds 
65 years old and older 
Desloratadine 
N  Mean change 
13 
189 
8 
-1.31 
-1.13 
-0.85 
Placebo 
N  Mean change 
9 
-0.42 
188 
9 
-0.50 
-0.44 
Delta 
0.89 
0.63 
0.41 
p-value 
<0.01 
Neither the numerically higher difference seen in the adolescents or the numerically lower difference 
seen in the ≥65 years group are clinically different from the effect seen in the 18 to 64 years 
population. The estimates of the treatment differences in these subgroups could be attributed to less 
than reliable estimates in the smaller sample sizes. As a result statistical inferential analysis was not 
performed for these subgroups. From the results observed in the CIU trials it can be concluded that the 
adolescent and geriatric patients treated for CIU should receive the same benefit from desloratadine 
5 mg as subjects 18-64 years of age. 
Total symptom score and number and size of hives 
The difference between desloratadine in total symptom scores (sum of pruritus, number and sizeof 
hives) remained significantly different throughout the entire treatment period. Analyses of the change 
from Baseline in the average reflective total symptom score (sum of pruritus, number of hives and the 
size of the largest hive; maximum score 9) over the entire treatment period (Days 1-42) revealed 
statistically significant differences in both studies (p<0.01).  
Desloratadine treatment resulted in a mean reduction in total symptom score from Baseline of 52.9% 
and  60.2%,  respectively,  in  the  two  studies  compared  to  a  mean  reduction  of  33.9%  and  27.8%, 
respectively, in placebo treated subjects, measured over the entire treatment duration of 42 days. 
Instantaneous/prior pruritus score 
The instantaneous pruritus score, the morning diaries and the evening diaries (both reflective and 
instantaneous) were analysed separately, with nearly identical results, supporting the efficacy of the 
once daily dosing regimen. In both studies, the response rates increased over time for both treatment 
groups. After Week 3 during the treatment, pruritus reduction with desloratadine was reported up to 
75% (range 66-75%), compared to 59% (range 47-59%) for placebo with only a slight difference 
between the two individual studies. The dropout rate in the placebo group was close to 30%; the 
majority due to treatment failure (29 out of 35 subjects) while the dropout rate in the desloratadine 
treated group was only 15%. 
Interference with sleep and daily activities 
At  day  8,  desloratadine  treatment  had  resulted  in  a  mean  improvement  from  baseline  compared  to 
placebo-treated  subjects  for  interference  with  sleep  as  shown  in  table  below.  These  differences  are 
statistically significant with p-values of 0.007 and <0.001, respectively. 
33/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reduction in interference with sleep in % from baseline (Days 1- 8) 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
P00220 
44 
14 
P00221 
53 
18 
At day 8, desloratadine treatment had resulted in a mean improvement from baseline compared to 
placebo-treated subjects for interference with daily activities as shown in the table below. These 
differences are statistically significant with p-values of 0.001 and <0.001, respectively. 
Reduction interference with daily activities in % from baseline (Days 1- 8) 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
P00220 
47 
17 
P00221 
50 
20 
The  mean  scores  at  baseline  for  both  variables  (interference  with  sleep  and  interference  with  daily 
activities)  and  treatment  arms  (desloratadine  and  placebo)  were  ≥  1.5  reflecting  mild  to  moderate 
interference. For desloratadine, this was reduced to a less than mild average interference (<0.8), while 
the score for the placebo treated group remained more than mild (>1.30) for both variables. 
Response to Therapy and Determination of Overall Condition 
Results  from  the  evaluation  of  overall  condition  (jointly  assessed by  the  subject  and  the  physician) 
showed statistically significant differences between desloratadine and placebo over all the time points 
evaluated.  At  the  end  of  treatment  analysis  (six  weeks),  the  overall  condition  for  desloratadine  was 
reduced from moderate-severe at baseline (score of ≥ 2.4 in both studies on a 0-3 scale) to mild (score 
of  about  1.0)  while  the  placebo  group  remained  close  to  moderate  with  a  score  of  1.40  and  1.55, 
respectively.  These  differences  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  period  (Week  6)  were  statistically 
significant with a p-value of 0.003 in study No. P00220 and a p-value of <0.001 in study No. P00221. 
Overall Condition at the End of the Treatment (Week 6) Compared to Baseline 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
P00220 
P00221 
Baseline 
> 2.4 
> 2.4 
Week 6 
1.0 
1.4 
Baseline 
> 2.4 
> 2.4 
Week 6 
1.0 
1.55 
Results from the evaluation of therapeutic response (jointly assessed by the subject and the physician) 
showed also  statistically  significant  differences  between  desloratadine  and  placebo  over  all  the  time 
points evaluated (all p-values were ≤ 0.002). Evaluated time points were Day 4, Day 8, Day 15, Day 
29, Day 42, and endpoint.  
Therapeutic Response at Endpoint 
Desloratadine 
Placebo 
P00220 
2.74 
3.62 
P00221 
2.75 
3.76 
The scores at endpoint for desloratadine were 2.74 and 2.75, respectively, reflecting a marked to 
moderate relief while the scores for placebo were 3.62 and 3.76, respectively, (slight relief). These 
differences at endpoint were statistically significant with a p-value of <0.001 in both studies. 
Oral lyophilisate 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamics data have been provided. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two studies in healthy adult volunteers were carried out. Study P01216 compared the bioequivalence 
of  the  5  mg  DL  tablet,  5  mg  DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablet  and  a  5 mg  dose  of  the  DL  syrup.  Study 
P01419 evaluated the effects of food and water administration on the bioavailability of DL and 3-OH 
DL from the oral lyophilisate tablet formulation.  
34/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P1419 
Bioequivalence/ 
bioavailability of DL 
tablet, oral lyophilisate 
and syrup 
Bioavailability of 5 mg 
oral lyophilisate 
with/without food and 
water 
Studies in Healthy Volunteers Included in the Desloratadine Syrup Clinical Pharmacology Program 
Sexa 
Protocol No. 
P01216 
12 F, 
18 M 
Study Design/Dosage 
Open-label, single-dose, three-way crossover (5 
mg DL tablet; 5 mg oral lyophilisate tablet and 5 
mg DL syrup, after overnight fast) 
Study Description 
Racec 
Ageb 
21-45  7C, 2B, 
2A, 
19H 
Open-label, single-dose, three-way crossover 
study (5 mg DL oral lyophilisate tablet with 
water, 5 mg DL oral lyophilisate tablet without 
water and 5 mg DL oral lyophilisate tablet 
following a high-caloric, high-fat meal) 
4 F, 
26 M 
22-45 
years 
22C, 8B 
a:  Sex:  M = male; F = female. 
b:  Age is in years. 
c:  Race:  A= Asian, C = Caucasian, B = Black, H = Hispanic. 
Both studies evaluating relative bioavailability/bioequivalence employed a randomised, crossover and 
open-label  design.  The  single-dose  design  used  in  both  studies  complies  with  the  recommendations 
outlined in the European CPMP Guideline for Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence for 
this  type  of  formulation.  For  these  studies,  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (Cmax  and  AUC)  were 
subjected to statistical analysis using  a  crossover  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  model. The  effects 
due to subject, period and treatment were extracted. Cmax and AUC values were log-transformed and 
the  90%  confidence  intervals  (CI)  for  the  mean  difference  between  the  treatments  expressed  as  a 
percent of each treatment mean. The power to detect a 20% difference in treatment means for an α-
level  of  0.05  (two-tailed)  was  calculated  using  the  pooled  residual  error  and  associated  degrees  of 
freedom  from  the  ANOVA.  This  study  design  in  combination  with  these  statistical  tests,  are 
considered to be the standard for evaluating bioequivalence. 
Plasma concentrations were analysed for DL and 3-OH DL using a validated liquid chromatographic-
mass  spectrometric  method  (LC/MS/MS)  with  a  lower  limit  of  quantitation  of  0.025  ng/ml.  All 
analyses  of  plasma  samples  were  conducted  at  PPD-Richmond,  VA.  These  methods  have  been 
validated for specificity, sensitivity, linearity and reproducibility. 
Across the two studies, following administration of the oral lyophilisate 5 mg tablet, a DL Cmax value 
of approximately 2.0 ng/ml was achieved at a median Tmax ranging from 2-3 hours in a fasting state.  
Mean DL  AUC(I)  values for the  oral lyophilisate  formulation  were approximately 40 ng⋅hr/ml.  The 
mean  Cmax  for  3-OH  DL  was  approximately  1.0 ng/ml  achieved  at  a  median  Tmax  which  ranged 
from 4-6 hours.  The mean AUC(I) values for 3-OH DL ranged from approximately 25-30 ng⋅hr/ml.  
These data were consistent with the data from the DL 5 mg tablet studies.  The  mean parameters for 
DL and 3-OH DL following administration of DL 5 mg oral lyophilisate and DL conventional tablets 
are summarized in the table below. 
Mean (CV%) Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Administration of 5 mg DL oral lyophilisate and 5 mg DL 
Tablet 
Study 
P01216 
(n=28) 
P01216 
(n=29) 
P01419 
(n=30) 
Parameter 
Mean (CV %) 
Compound Measured 
(Fasted Condition) 
5 mg DL Tablet 
(Fasting) 
5 mg oral lyophilisate 
(Fasting With Water) 
5 mg oral lyophilisate 
(Fasting With Water 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
Tmax 
(hr) 
AUC(I) 
(ng⋅hr/ml) 
t½ 
(hr) 
DL 
3-0H DL 
DL 
3-0H DL 
DL 
3-0H DL 
DL 
3-0H DL 
1.99 (30) 
1.03 (28) 
3 (1-6) 
6 (1.5-6) 
39.4 (43) 
29.0 (29) 
22 (22) 
32.2 (17) 
2.18(35) 
1.08 (27) 
2 (1.5-8) 
6 (1.5-8) 
40.3 (45) 
29.5 (27) 
21.6 (19) 
32.6 (20) 
35/60 
1.84 (38) 
0.85 (34) 
2.5 (1-12) 
4.0 (1.5-48) 
41.7(76) 
25.7 (25) 
23.8 (36) 
42.1 (107) 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  bioequivalence  of  the  DL  oral  lyophilisate  formulation  relative  to  the  DL  syrup  and  tablet 
formulation was evaluated to assess the interchangeability of these three formulations (P01216). The 5 
mg oral lyophilisate  formulation was found to be bioequivalent to the 5 mg tablet formulation and 5 
mg of syrup with respect to both DL and 3-OH DL. 
Estimates of Bioequivalence and the  90% Confidence  Intervals for  the Log-Transformed Cmax AUC(tf) and AUC 
for DL and 3-OH DL in Healthy Volunteers Following  Single Oral Administration of DL 5  mg Tablets, 5 mg  oral 
lyophilisate or 5 mg Syrup (n=28) 
Comparison 
Relative Bioavailability (%) 
5 mg oral lyophilisate Versus 5 mg Tablet 
DLa 
5 mg oral lyophilisate/Tablet 
5 mg oral lyophilisate/5 mg 
Tablet 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
97.1 
91.5 
3-OH DLa 
97.0 
93.5 
5 mg oral lyophilisate Versus 5 mg Syrup 
DLa 
5 mg oral lyophilisate/5 mg 
Syrup 
5 mg oral lyophilisate/ 5 mg 
Syrup 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
100.9 
96.4 
3-OH DLa 
100.8 
99.0 
Protocol No. P01216 
90% Confidence Interval (%) 
92-102 
85-99 
93-101 
87-100 
96-106 
90-104 
97-105 
93-106 
a:  Balanced data only:  AUC(tf), AUC(I) and Cmax values for Subjects Nos. 14 and 26 were not included in the 
statistical analysis (log-transformed) since they did not have data for all treatments. 
Therefore the DL oral lyophilisate tablet is interchangeable with both the conventional DL tablets and 
DL syrup formulations. 
The  effect  of  food  (a  high-fat,  high-caloric  meal)  and  water  on  oral  lyophilisate  bioavailability  was 
assessed in a three-way crossover design (Protocol No. P01419).  
Estimates of Bioequivalence and the 90% Confidence Intervals for the Log-Transformed Cmax and AUC(l) for DL and 3-
OH DL in Healthy Adult Volunteers After Single-Dose Oral Administration of DL oral lyophilisate Under Either Fasted 
(With or Without Water) or Fed Conditions 
Protocol No. P01419 
Comparison 
Relative Bioavailability (%) 
Confidence Interval (%) 
Fed/Fasted with water 
Fed/Fasted without water 
Fasted without water/Fasted with water 
Fed/Fasted with water 
Fed/Fasted without water 
Fasted without water/Fasted with water 
DL 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
3-OH DL 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
36/60 
99.4 
87.4 
97.3 
84.3 
102 
104 
95.4 
93.9 
94.0 
92.6 
101 
101 
96-103 
82-93 
94-101 
79-90 
98-106 
97-110 
92-99 
89-99 
91-97 
88-98 
98-105 
96-107 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For all comparisons, AUC and Cmax parameters  met  the 80-125% bioequivalence acceptance  range 
outlined  in  the  European  CPMP  Guideline  for  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence, 
with  the  exception  of  the  DL  Cmax  parameter  when  the  fed  and  fasted  without  water  condition  are 
compared (90% CI 79-90%).  However, this slightly lower Cmax value under the fed condition is not 
clinically meaningful.  Therefore, food and water administration had no clinically significant effect on 
the bioavailability of DL or 3-OH DL from the oral lyophilisate tablet.  These findings are expected 
since no food effect has been previously identified with DL. 
Tmax is 2.5 hr for DL and 4 hr for 3-OH DL in fasted subjects (without or with water); in fed subjects 
these values are prolonged to 4 hr for DL and 6 hr for 3-OH DL. These data are given in section 5.2. 
of the SPC. 
Clinical efficacy 
No  clinical  efficacy  studies  have  been  performed  with  the  present  DL  oral  lyophilisate  formulation. 
Since the bioavailability to the conventional DL tablet has been demonstrated and a complete program 
of clinical efficacy and safety data has been presented during the authorisation procedure for DL 5 mg 
film-coated  tablets,  the  lack  of  clinical  efficacy  studies  is  acceptable  for  the  present  DL  oral 
lyophilisate formulation. 
Syrup 
Clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetic properties of desloratadine syrup were investigated in healthy volunteers. The 6 
studies  enrolled  a  total  of  120  subjects,  comprising  30  subjects  aged  19  to  45  and  90  paediatric 
subjects;  54  aged  6  to  11  years  and  36  aged  2  to  5  years  old.  The  studies  were  conducted  in 
compliance with GCP. 
Overview of pharmacokinetic studies is given in the table below: 
Study 
number 
P00213 
P00270 
P01126 
C98-577 
P00225 
P01125 
Primary 
objective/variable 
Design 
Desloratadine 
dose/comparator 
Study 
populations 
Bioequivalence of 
desloratadine tablet and 
syrup; food effect on 
desloratadine syrup 
Pharmacokinetic profile 
of 5 mg desloratadine 
syrup 
Pharmacokinetic profile 
of 2.5 mg desloratadine 
syrup 
Pharmacokinetic profile 
of 7.5 mg desloratadine 
tablets 
Pharmacokinetic profile 
of 2.5 mg desloratadine 
syrup 
Pharmacokinetic profile 
of 1.25 mg desloratadine 
syrup 
Open-label, single 
dose, three-way cross-
over 
Open-label, single 
dose 
Open-label, single 
dose 
Open-label, single 
dose 
Open-label, single 
dose 
Open-label, single 
dose 
5 mg desloratadine tablet 
24 male, 6 female 
5 mg desloratadine syrup after 
overnight fast or standardised 
breakfast 
19-45 years 
5 mg desloratadine syrup 
10 male, 8 female  
6-11 years 
2.5 mg desloratadine syrup 
9 male, 9 female  
6-11 years 
7.5 mg desloratadine tablet 
9 male, 9 female  
6-11 years 
2.5 mg desloratadine syrup 
12 male, 6 female  
2-5 years 
1.25 mg desloratadine syrup 
10 male, 8 female  
2-5 years 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamics data have been provided. The pharmacodynamic properties of 
desloratadine were evaluated in the Marketing Authorisation application for the desloratadine film-
coated tablets for adults and adolescents. No differences in pharmacodynamic properties of 
desloratadine are anticipated in the paediatric population. 
37/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  bioequivalence  of  the  desloratadine  syrup  formulation  relative  to  the  tablet  was  evaluated  to 
assess  the  interchangeability  of  these  2  formulations.  Bioequivalence  in  adults  was  demonstrated  in 
Study  P00213,  which  showed  that  oral  administration  of  a  5.0 mg  dose  of  desloratadine  syrup 
(0.5 mg/ml) and a desloratadine 5.0 mg tablet were bioequivalent. 
Estimates of Bioequivalence and the 90% Confidence Intervals for the Log-Transformed Cmax and AUC(I) for DL 
and 3-OH DL in Healthy Adult Volunteers Following Single-Dose Oral Administration of a DL 5.0 mg Tablet and 
DL 5.0 mg Syrup (0.5 mg/ml) Formulation Under Fasted or Fed Condition 
Formulation (Condition) 
Relative Bioavailability (%) 
90 % Confidence Interval 
Desloratadine 
Syrup (fast)/Tablet (fast) 
Syrup (fed)/Syrup (fast) 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
95.4 
92.5 
104 
94.1 
3-OH Desloratadine 
Syrup (fast)/Tablet (fast) 
Syrup (fed)/Syrup (fast) 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
94.9 
96.5 
101 
87.2 
84-108 
84-102 
92-118 
85-104 
89-101 
89-104 
95-108 
81-94 
According  to  the  literature,  rhinitis  in  children  shares  most  of  the  clinical  and  therapeutic 
characteristics with rhinitis in adults. Therefore, in order to ensure that the same efficacy and safety is 
achieved in children as demonstrated with desloratadine in adults, the applicant evaluated the dose of 
desloratadine that  would result in  comparable  desloratadine and 3-OH  desloratadine  exposure (AUC 
and  Cmax)  in  children.  The  mean  pharmacokinetic  parameters  presented  in  the  table  below  allow  a 
comparison of the exposure across all studies in the syrup program. 
38/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Vivo Study Data Summary 
P00213 
(N = 30/ 
Treatment) 
P01228 
(N = 12) 
P01228 
(N = 24) 
C98-577 
(N = 18) 
P00270 
(N = 18) 
P01126 
(N = 18) 
P00225 
(N = 18) 
P01125 
(N = 18) 
5.0 mg   
(Tablet / Syrup)  
Adults 
2.30 (51)  
1.03 (38)  
5.0 mg  
(Tablet) 
Adults 
5.0 mg  
(Tablet) 
12-17 
years 
7.5 mg 
(Tablet) 
6-11 years 
5.0 mg 
(Syrup) 
6-11 years 
5.30 (39) 
1.77 (57) 
2.5 mg 
(Syrup) 
6-11 years 
2.23 (35) 
0.764 (54) 
2.5 mg 
(Syrup) 
2-5 years 
5.36 (41) 
1.27 (61) 
1.25 mg 
(Syrup) 
2-5 years 
2.68 (50) 
0.644 (49) 
2.44 (41)  
1.06 (34) 
2.25 (25) 
0.804 (36) 
2.40 (36) 
0.927 (29) 
7.04 (42) 
1.63 (65) 
3.58 (45)  
4.73 (39)  
2.78 (73) 
4.00 (42) 
3.67 (79) 
4.44 (42) 
2.94 (79) 
4.44 (63) 
3.17 (63) 
4.89 (35) 
4.17 (50)  
4.72 (41) 
3.63 (91) 
5.42 (52) 
2.81 (80) 
5.92 (45) 
5.78 (54) 
6.22 (50) 
46.2 (71)  
26.0 (28)  
101 (89) 
43.0 (45) 
48.6 (88) 
20.5 (50)a 
98.6 (76) 
33.7 (51) 
42.0 (49) 
17.3 (42) 
45.8 (44)  
27.0 (25) 
61.7 (69) 
24.9 (33) 
52.7 (49) 
32.9 (35) 
171 (75) 
44.7 (59) 
24.0 (23)b  
30.7 (21)  
18.6 (49) 
26.8 (43) 
19.4 (61) 
28.1 (65)a 
18.7 (60) 
28.4 (67) 
16.4 (55) 
26.2 (78) 
22.3 (21)  
31.8 (21) 
23.4 (61) 
39.2 (94) 
17.9 (15) 
27.4 (18) 
19.3 (59) 
28.9 (57) 
Study 
Paramet
er 
Mean 
(CV %) 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
tmax 
hr 
AUC(tf) 
ng⋅hr/ml 
t½ 
hr 
Compound 
Measured 
(fasted 
condition) 
DL (syrup) 
3-0H DL 
(syrup) 
DL (tablet) 
3-OH DL 
(tablet) 
DL (syrup) 
3-0H DL 
(syrup) 
DL (tablet) 
3-OH DL 
(tablet) 
DL (syrup) 
3-0H DL 
(syrup) 
DL (tablet) 
3-OH DL 
(tablet) 
DL (syrup) 
3-0H DL 
(syrup) 
DL (tablet) 
3-OH 
DL(tablet) 
a: 
b: 
n = 17, t½ could not be calculated for Subject No. 16. 
t½ = 21(22) hours when the same blood sampling schemes are used in adults and paediatric subjects. 
There was a high degree of variability expressed as percent coefficient of variation (%CV) associated 
with AUC(tf) values. Contributing to the parameter variability was the presence of some patients who 
were slow metabolisers in these studies. Slow metabolisers were defined as subjects with AUC (tf) 3-
OH desloratadine to desloratadine ratios of less then  10%. In Studies P00225, P00270, P01125, and 
P01126  there  were  2-3  slow  metabolisers  in  each  study,  and  in  Study  C98-577  there  were  4  slow 
metabolisers. A similar number of slow metabolisers have been reported in previous studies conducted 
with  desloratadine  tablets  in  adults.  No  subjects  were  considered  to  be  a  slow  metaboliser  in 
Study P00213. 
Differences  in  t½  were  observed  between  adults  and  children.  The  mean  t½  of  paediatric  subjects 
across  studies  following  single  dose  administration  of  desloratadine  ranged  between  16.4  to  19.4 
hours, compared with 21 (22) hours in adults (based on the same blood sampling scheme in adults as 
in paediatric subjects). The difference (8-22%) was considered to be pharmacokinetically unimportant. 
The primary pharmacokinetic parameter, total body clearance, which is reduced in paediatric subjects, 
resulted in the requirement to reduce the dose in order to provide the same exposure (Cmax, AUC) as 
in adults. 
In  response  to  the  List  of  Questions  regarding  the  shorter  t½  in  children  compared  to  adults  the 
applicant  argued that  fewer blood samples  had been taken in the paediatric  studies  compared to the 
adults. When t½ was computed for adults in study P00213 based on the same blood-sampling scheme 
as used in paediatric subjects t½ was 21 (22) hours. In study P01216 in which the syrup formulation 
was also studied in adults, a t½ of 17.9 (20) hours  was observed. These  data show that DL t½ of the 
same order of magnitude has been observed in children and adults.  
39/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to make proper comparison of AUC(tf) between paediatric and adult subjects (P00213), the 
common  desloratadine  concentration-time  points  (0,  1,  2,  4,  8,  12,  24,  48,  and  72 hours)  were 
extracted from the individual studies and the AUC(tf)  values were calculated. Since the comparisons 
are being made across studies and due to the presence of slow metabolisers in some studies, median 
AUC values as opposed to mean values were used to compare exposure across studies. 
In subjects 2 to 5 and 6 to 11 years of age, a single 2.5 mg (P00225) and 5.0 mg (P00270) oral dose of 
desloratadine, respectively, resulted in median desloratadine and 3-OH desloratadine AUC (tf) values 
that were approximately 2-fold the desloratadine and 3-OH desloratadine exposure observed in adults 
(P00213) following a 5.0 mg desloratadine dose.   
However, a 1.25 mg (P01125) and 2.5 mg (P01126) dose of desloratadine in subjects 2 to 5 and 6 to 
11 years of age, respectively, resulted in median desloratadine and 3-OH desloratadine AUC(tf) values 
that  were  comparable  to  the  exposure  of  desloratadine  and  3-OH  desloratadine  observed  in  adults 
(P00213) following a 5.0 mg desloratadine dose. 
Consistent with AUC(tf) results, desloratadine and 3-OH desloratadine Cmax values in subjects aged 
2  to  5  years  and  6  to  12  years,  following  a  2.5  mg  and  5.0  mg  dose  of  desloratadine  syrup  were 
increased in comparison to adults receiving a 5.0 mg desloratadine dose. Following administration of 
half  the  initial  dose,  Cmax  values  in  each  age  group  were  comparable  to  those  observed  in  adults 
receiving a 5.0 mg dose of desloratadine. 
In  response  to  the  List  of  Questions  regarding  the  lower  AUC  in  children  compared  to  adults  the 
applicant  compared  AUC(I),  a  measure  of  exposure,  for  children  and  adults.  Because  desloratadine 
exhibits  linear  pharmacokinetics  in  adults  and  is  assumed  to  exhibit  linear  pharmacokinetics  in 
children, AUC(I) is equivalent to AUC at steady state and is related to half-life as described below: 
AUC (I) = (Dose  x F/Vd) x 1.44 x t½  (where Vd/F = apparent  volume  of  distribution, t½ = terminal 
phase half-life). 
Differences  between  the  AUC(I)s  for  the  children  (n=36)  and  adults  (n=30)  were  evaluated  by  an 
unpaired  t-test.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  (p=0.84)  in  the  exposure  between 
children and adults at their respective recommended doses. 
In summary, a 1.25 mg and 2.5 mg dose of desloratadine syrup in paediatric subjects, aged 2 to 5 years 
and 6 to 11 years, respectively, provides desloratadine exposure comparable to the exposure observed 
in adults receiving desloratadine 5.0 mg tablets. The desloratadine 5.0 mg dose was proven efficacious 
in  adult  subjects  with  SAR  and  therefore  paediatric  subjects  should  have  a  therapeutic  response  at 
similar desloratadine exposure. 
In  addition,  when  median  desloratadine  exposure  from  loratadine  syrup  in  children  is  compared  to 
median desloratadine exposure from desloratadine syrup in the same age groups, these are shown to be 
comparable.  This  further  supports  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  desloratadine  syrup  in  children  at  the 
proposed dosage recommendations. 
In the List of Outstanding Issues the CPMP questioned whether the doses proposed would result in 
sub-optimal efficacy in certain children. In response the MAH stated that on the basis of the clinical 
pharmacology studies conducted with DL syrup, it was determined that a 1.25 mg and 2.5 mg dose of 
DL in 2-5 and 6-11 year olds, respectively, matched the DL exposure produced by a 5 mg dose in 
adults. A 5 mg dose of DL syrup administered to adults results in a median AUC(0-72 hours) of 35.3. This 
is comparable to a median AUC (0-72 hours) of 38.7 in 2-5 year olds receiving 1.25 mg of DL syrup and a 
median AUC(0-72 hours) of 38.4 in 6-11 year olds receiving 2.5 mg of DL syrup. 
A graphic summary of the median DL AUC(tf) determinations from relevant clinical pharmacology 
studies performed with DL and loratadine syrup in adult and paediatric subjects is presented in the 
figure below. 
40/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
]
L
m
/
r
h
.
g
n
[
)
f
t
(
i
C
U
A
e
n
d
a
t
a
r
o
s
e
D
l
Median =54.4
Median =38.2
Median =38.6
Median =38.8
Median =47.6
Median =32.5
300
200
100
0
0
1
P01125
2
3
C97-033
4
5
6
P01126
7
8
C90-187
9
10
11
P00213
12
13
C92-025
14
 DL Syrup 
  1.25 mg
   Claritin  
Syrup, 5 mg
 DL Syrup 
   2.5 mg
   Claritin  
Syrup, 10 mg
  DL Syrup  
     5 mg
   Claritin  
Syrup, 10 mg
   2 - 5 yr
  6 - 11 yr
Adults
Comparison of median desloratadine AUC values in paediatric and adult subjects administered 
desloratadine and loratadine syrup.  
As shown in the figure above, the median DL AUC(tf) is essentially the same in paediatric subjects 
administered age-corrected doses of DL syrup and adult subjects administered DL 5 mg, and 
Importantly, these values are also similar to those in adults receiving 10 mg of loratadine syrup. The 
CPMP concluded that the proposed posology can be accepted as a variability towards a lower blood 
level has not been shown.  
In Study P00213, it was demonstrated that food does not affect the pharmacokinetics of desloratadine 
or  3-OH  desloratadine  (according  to  PK  analysis  3-OH  desloratadine  was  also  bioequivalent) 
following the administration of the desloratadine syrup formulation. 
Clinical efficacy 
No efficacy data have been submitted for this application. No efficacy data were recorded in the two 
Phase III safety studies with the syrup formulation. This is reflected in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
Desloratadine 5.0 mg once daily was approved as a safe and effective dose for the treatment of SAR 
and CIU in adult and adolescent subjects. Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that the bioavailability 
of  desloratadine  from  5.0  mg  desloratadine  tablets  and  10.0  mg  loratadine  tablets  is  essentially  the 
same,  with  bioequivalent  AUC  (area-under-the-curve)  values.  Loratadine  syrup  (5.0 mg/5 ml  or 
10.0 mg/10 ml)  has  been  shown  to  effectively  reduce  the  symptoms  of  allergic  rhinitis  and  allergic 
skin disorders in children 2 years of age and older.  
Based  upon  the  results  of  the  clinical  pharmacology  paediatric  studies,  desloratadine 1.25 mg  once 
daily  and  desloratadine 2.5 mg once  daily  administered  using  a  syrup  formulation  were  chosen  as 
appropriate doses for subjects 2 to 5 years of age and 6 to 11 years of age, respectively. 
41/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Film-coated tablet 
Patient exposure in Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis 
The  total  number  of  patients  who  has  received  desloratadine  is  2,346;  out  of  whom  1838  were 
included in the multiple dose studies and 508 in the onset of action studies. 
The majority of the patients (93-98%) treated with 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10 and 20 mg were treated for 2 or more 
weeks. Only patients in study C98-225 were treated up to 4 weeks (139 subjects receiving 5 mg and 
145 receiving 7.5 mg desloratadine. 
The extent of exposure to desloratadine 5 mg is shown in the table: 
Number of subjects (N=659) 
C98-001 
171 
169 
166 
156 
NA 
1 
C98-223 
165 
165 
165 
163 
NA 
0 
C98-224 
164 
163 
159 
150 
NA 
0 
C98-225 
156 
156 
156 
155 
139 
2 
Total 
656 
653 
646 
624 
139 
3 
Length of exposure 
> 1 dose 
> 4 days 
> 1 week 
> 2 weeks 
> 4 weeks 
Unknown 
NA: not applicable 
Patient exposure in Allergic Rhinitis 
A  total  of  3307  randomised  subjects  received  either  DL  5  mg  (n=1655)  or  placebo  (n=1652)  in  the 
eight  allergic  rhinitis  studies.  At  least  83%  of  the  subjects  were  treated  for  the  protocol-specified 
length  of time (2  or 4  weeks  of  dosing). The  majority  of subjects (about 65%)  were treated  for 3-4 
weeks, with more than 90% of subjects treated for at least two weeks. Approximately 50% of subjects 
in the allergic rhinitis study groups (n=873 and 842 in the DL 5-mg and placebo groups, respectively) 
were treated for 29-35 days. 
Patient exposure in Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria 
All  211  subjects  who  were  randomised  and  received  the  proposed  clinical  dose  (5  mg  QD)  of 
desloratadine  in  the  Phase  III  clinical  program  were  evaluable  for  safety.  The  extent  of  exposure  is 
shown in the table below. 
Extent of Exposure to Treatment 
Length of Exposure 
1-7 days 
8-14 days 
15-21 days 
22-28 days 
29-35 days 
36-42 days 
43-49 days 
> 50 days 
Desloratadine 5 mg QD 
(n=211) 
211 
202 
192 
181 
177 
176 
132 
7 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
SAR studies 
Placebo QD 
(n=205) 
205 
178 
159 
150 
146 
138 
108 
1 
In the four multiple dose studies 43-49% of the subjects reported treatment emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs).  Only  4-12%  of  the  subjects  reported  TEAEs  in  the  parallel  group  onset  of  action  studies 
(C98-226 and  I98-367) and no subjects reported TEAEs in the two crossover onset of action studies 
(I98-448 and P00287).  
42/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most  TEAEs  were  considered  by  the  investigator  unlikely  to  be  related  to  treatment.  The  overall 
incidence of TEAEs considered by the investigator to be possibly or probably related to treatment was 
slightly  higher in the  groups treated  with  desloratadine (20% in the 2.5  mg  group, 17% in the 5  mg 
group, 15% in the 7.5 mg group, 19% in the 10 mg group and 20% in the 20 mg group) than in the 
placebo group (13%). There was no evidence of a dose-related trend within the desloratadine groups. 
The number of patients and the percentage of patients reporting the most frequently occurring TEAEs 
≥
2%  of  the  subjects  in  any  treatment  group)  are  given  below  for  the  TEAEs  in  the  multiple  dose 
(
studies considered by the investigator to be possibly or probably related to the treatment. 
2% of subjects by body system/Organ class (pooled data from the 
Incidence of TEAEs reported by 
four multidose studies): 
≥
No of subjects (%) with any related AE 
Autonomic Nervous System 
Mouth dry 
Body as whole- general disorders 
Fatigue 
Headache 
Central and peripheral Nervous System 
Dizziness 
Gastro-Intestinal System Disorders 
Nausea 
Psychiatric System Disorders 
Somnolence 
Respiratory System Disorders 
Epistaxis 
Number (%) of patients 
5 mg desloratadine 
(n=659) 
111(17) 
Placebo 
(n=661) 
83(13) 
21(3) 
21(3) 
56(8) 
17(3) 
38(6) 
7(1) 
6(<1) 
9(1) 
4(<1) 
22(3) 
14(2) 
17(3) 
3(<1) 
13(2) 
12(2) 
38(6) 
10(2) 
26(4) 
6(<1) 
6(<1) 
15(2) 
5(<1) 
20(3) 
15(2) 
15(2) 
4(<1) 
The most common related TEAE with desloratadine 5 mg tablets was headache with 6% in subjects in 
the  desloratadine  groups  and  4%  in  the  placebo  group.  Other  frequently  reported  TEAEs  were  dry 
mouth  (3%  for  desloratadine,  2%  for  placebo),  fatigue  (3%  for  desloratadine,  2%  for  placebo)  and 
somnolence (2% for both desloratadine and placebo). 
Most of the AEs reported during the study were  graded as mild to moderate in severity. The overall 
incidence  of  severe  adverse  events  was  similar  among  the  treatment  groups  with  3-5%  in  the 
desloratadine  groups  and  3%  in  the  placebo  group.  Headache  was  the  most  common  related  severe 
adverse event  occurring in 2%  of the subjects in the  5 and 7.5  mg  groups and in 1% in the placebo 
group.  
No  life-threatening  adverse  events  were  observed  and  no  deaths  were  reported  during  the  study  or 
within 30 days after the last dose of study medication. 
Allergic rhinitis studies 
A  total  of  16  serious  adverse  events  occurred  in  4,797  subjects  treated  in  the  AR  studies  (DL  and 
placebo),  or  during the screening period  for the  AR studies. There  were  no  reports  of  death or life-
threatening adverse events. All serious adverse events were considered by the study investigators to be 
unlikely related to study drug.  
Three  of  the  16  serious  adverse  events  were  unintended  pregnancies.  Although  pregnancy  does  not 
meet  the  regulatory  definition  of  a  serious  adverse  event,  pregnancy  was  for  tracking  purposes, 
captured  as  a  serious  adverse  event  in  the  clinical  database.  Two  pregnancies  occurred  in  placebo-
treated subjects and 1 occurred during screening prior to study drug assignment. The thirteen serious 
43/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse  events  occurred  in  the  following  groups:  5  in  DL,  3  in  placebo,  and  5  prior  to  study  drug 
assignment (during the screening period). 
The  overall incidences  of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) in the  AR study  groups  were 
similar among the DL and placebo-treatment groups (about 40%). No unexpected adverse events were 
reported. Headache, which occurred at the same frequency in DL- and placebo-treated subjects (15%), 
was the only adverse event reported by >5% of subjects in the AR studies. 
The overall incidences of treatment-related TEAEs in the AR studies were also similar among the two 
treatment groups (14% for DL and 12% for placebo). No related adverse event was reported by >5% 
of  subjects.  Headache  (4%),  dry  mouth  (2%-3%),  somnolence  (2%),  and  fatigue  (1%-2%)  were 
reported in similar proportions by the DL and placebo treatment groups. 
The  overall  frequency  and  pattern  of  treatment-related  TEAEs  was  similar  among  the  individual 
clinical programs and consistent with the AR studies. The incidence of related TEAEs was also similar 
for DL and placebo within each allergic rhinitis subtype: SAR (DL 17% and placebo 13%), PAR (DL 
11% and placebo 11%), and SAR/Asthma (DL 16% and placebo 14%). 
In general, the overall incidence and pattern of adverse events in the pooled demographic subgroups 
(by age, race, and sex) were consistent with those observed in the overall study population. 
The  overall  incidences  of  treatment-related  adverse  events  seen  in  the  AR  pool  are  consistent  with 
pooled analysis of safety data from 10 studies of DL 5 mg (the eight studies included in the AR pool 
and  two  studies  in  chronic  idiopathic  urticaria).  Data  from  the  10  clinical  studies  were  pooled  for 
completeness and to provide a common description of the adverse event profile in the labelling across 
indications. Therefore Section 4.8 of the SPC reflects the pooled overall frequency of adverse events 
for DL 5 mg from these 10 studies. 
No respiratory safety issues were identified for DL. The overall occurrence of TEAEs associated with 
the respiratory system in the pooled allergic rhinitis studies was similar between DL 5 mg and placebo 
(12%  and  9%,  respectively).  There  were  no  respiratory  system  safety  issues  identified  in  subjects 
randomised  in  the  two  four-week  studies  in  subjects  with  SAR  and  concurrent  asthma  (P00214  and 
P00215). 
Approximately  11%  of  subjects  (in  Studies  P00214  and  P00215)  in  each  treatment  group  reported 
TEAEs  associated  with  the  respiratory  system.  The  numbers  of  subjects  reporting  treatment-related 
TEAEs was low (<4%) and comparable between the DL-, placebo- and montelukast-treatment groups 
(3.5%, 2.6%, and 2.3%, respectively). 
CIU studies 
In  the  two  multiple  dose  studies  in  CIU  the  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  classified  as  being 
related  to  treatment  with  desloratadine  was  comparable  to  the  incidence  in  subjects  treated  with 
placebo as seen in the table below. 
Table 5 Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events Reported b 
Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events Reported by > 2% of Subjects in Either 
Treatment Group, by Body System/Organ Class (All Randomised Subjects) 
Any Treatment-Related Adverse Event a  
Autonomic Nervous System Disorders  
Mouth Dry  
Body As a Whole – General Disorders  
Fatigue  
Headache  
Central and Peripheral Nervous System Disorders  
Dizziness  
Psychiatric Disorders  
Somnolence  
a: Number of  subjects  reporting  treatment-related adverse  events at  least once during the  study. Some subjects may have 
reported more than one adverse event. 
DL 5.0 mg QD 
(n=211) 
44 (20.9) 
8 (3.8) 
6 (2.8) 
19 (9.0) 
7 (3.3) 
12 (5.7) 
5 (2.4) 
5 (2.4) 
7 (3.3) 
6 (2.8) 
Placebo 
(n=205) 
29 (14.1) 
6 (2.9) 
6 (2.9) 
8 (3.9) 
1 (<1) 
8 (3.9) 
6 (2.9) 
4 (2.0) 
8 (3.9) 
8 (3.9) 
44/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no deaths or life-threatening events in either study. 
A total of 3 subjects (3/416) experienced serious adverse events during the period between signing of 
the informed consent till 30 days after completion of the treatment. One subject, treated with 
desloratadine, required hospitalisation for the removal of a kidney stone. One subject, treated with 
placebo, had a positive pregnancy test at the end of the study, and the third subject reported an 
anaphylactic reaction during the screening phase prior to randomisation. None of these events were 
considered to be related to the treatment. 
Fatigue  is  the  only  treatment-related  adverse  event  that  was  more  frequently  reported  by  the 
desloratadine treated subjects when compared to the placebo treated subjects (7 subjects vs. 1 subject). 
The apparent imbalance in this incidence was  mostly a chance event occurring in a small number of 
subjects. Besides this, for the individual subject it  might be  difficult to discriminate between  fatigue 
and somnolence. Interesting to note is that more subjects reported treatment related somnolence in the 
placebo  group  than  in  the  desloratadine  group  (8  vs.  6  subjects).  The  most  commonly  reported 
treatment-related  adverse  event  was  headache,  which  occurred  with  a  similar  incidence  in  both 
treatment groups (12 subjects in the desloratadine treated group vs. eight in the placebo treated group). 
All other treatment-related adverse events reported with desloratadine occurred to a similar extent with 
placebo.  The  severe  treatment  related  adverse  events  occurred  in  <1%  in both  treatment  groups.  In 
fact, only two subjects in each treatment group reported a severe treatment related adverse event. The 
reported  events in the  desloratadine treated subjects  were  headache and  fatigue  versus headache  and 
gastritis in the placebo treated subjects. None of these events resulted in study discontinuation. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events in SAR studies 
A  total  of  49  out  of  2499  subjects  (1838  treated  with  desloratadine  and  661  with  placebo)  did  not 
complete  the  studies  due  to  adverse  events  (1-3%  across  the  desloratadine  groups  and  2%  in  the 
placebo  group).  Most  adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  were  due  to  concurrent  illnesses 
frequently  associated  with  SAR.  There  was  no  apparent  pattern  in  the  occurrence  with  respect  to 
treatment group was seen. More than half of the patients (32/49, 65%) discontinued due to sinusitis, 
fatigue or headache.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events in AR studies 
Overall, between 2% and 3.6% of DL and placebo subjects in the allergic rhinitis studies discontinued 
due to  adverse  events. Most adverse  events leading to study  discontinuation  were  due  to  concurrent 
illnesses  frequently  associated  with  AR  (e.g.,  sinusitis,  upper  respiratory  tract  infection,  bronchitis, 
etc.). No single adverse  event  was related to study  discontinuation in >1%  of DL-or  placebo-treated 
subjects.  No  subjects  discontinued  due  to  cardiovascular  disorders  or  heart  rate/rhythm  disturbance. 
Two DL-treated subjects, both randomised in the SAR/Asthma studies, discontinued due to chest pain 
that was considered non-cardiac in origin. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events in CIU studies 
A total of ten (10/416) subjects discontinued the treatment due to treatment-emergent adverse events 
(6/211 in the desloratadine treated group vs. 4/205 in the placebo treated group). Most adverse events 
leading to study discontinuation were due to a concurrent illness (in six out of the ten subjects). The 
majority  of these adverse  events  was  of  moderate severity  (in  nine  out  of the ten subjects) and  was 
judged  unlikely  to  be  related  to  the  therapy  (in  seven  out  of  the  ten  subjects).  None  of  the  subjects 
discontinued from the study due to adverse events associated with heart rate/rhythm disorders. 
A total of three subjects discontinued the treatment due to treatment related adverse events (1/211 in 
the desloratadine treated group vs. 2/205 in the placebo treated group). 
The event causing discontinuation in the subject treated with desloratadine was nausea of moderate 
severity. The events causing discontinuation in the placebo treated subjects were vomiting and 
somnolence of moderate severity.  
45/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory parameters 
Clinical  laboratory  tests  were  carried  out  at  screening  and  at  endpoint  in  the  eight  multiple  dose 
studies for AR and the two multiple dose studies in CIU. Median percent changes from baseline for all 
laboratory tests were evaluated. Overall only minimal changes were observed for all treatment groups 
and there was no apparent difference between the desloratadine treated groups and the placebo group.  
The  majority  (≥  81%  for  both  desloratadine  and  placebo)  in  the  AR  studies  had  values  within  the 
normal range at baseline and at endpoint. Median percent changes in laboratory results, stratified by 
age, race, and sex showed no clinically relevant differences. There was no indication of a differential 
response to treatment between any of these sub-groups for any test, although some of the subgroups 
were too small for a robust analysis. 
Vital signs 
No  change  in  any  of  the  vital  signs  were  observed  in  either  AR  or  CIU  studies  that  suggested  a 
treatment  effect.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  at  least  a  30%  change  from  pretreatment  values  in 
blood pressure and heart rate was similar among treatment groups. Results of vital signs measurements 
stratified  by  age,  race  and  sex  showed,  overall,  no  clinical  relevant  differences  between  treatment 
groups. 
ECG-results in SAR studies 
ECGs, including  ventricular  rate,  PR,  QR,  QRS,  QT, and  QTc  intervals,  were  evaluated  at  baseline 
and post-treatment. Overall, the majority of ECGs were observed to be normal at both screening and 
endpoint.  Out  of  the  2469  subjects  with  both  a  baseline  and  an  endpoint  ECG,  the  investigators 
considered only 3 to have had a clinical meaningful abnormal ECG. 
One patient treated  with 5  mg  desloratadine in C98-001 had a 7% increase in the QTc interval (431 
msec at baseline, 465 msec at visit 5) and an increase in heart rate from 57 bpm at screening to 63 bpm 
at endpoint. The changes were not accompanied by any clinical symptoms or cardiovascular adverse 
events. The second subject treated with 5 mg desloratadine in study C98-001 had a septal infarction at 
screening,  which  was  clinically  significant  at  endpoint.  It  was  subsequently  determined  that  the 
abnormalities seen at endpoint were identical to the ones seen at screening. The third person (7.5 mg 
desloratadine  group  in  C98-223)  had  a  clinically  meaningful  abnormal  ECG  at  both  screening  and 
endpoint  with  a  QTc  interval  of  511msec  at  screening  and  502  msec  at  endpoint.  The  patient  was 
discontinued after 3 days treatment, as this was a protocol violation. No clinical symptoms apart from 
headache had been reported. 
Mean percent changes in ECG interval data including ventricular rate, PR, QRS, QT and QTc interval 
were  evaluated.  Overall  there  were  no  apparent  differences  between  any  of  the  treatment  groups.  A 
slight mean increase in ventricular rate was seen in the 20 mg desloratadine group (4.5 bpm) compared 
to the placebo group (0 bpm in C 98-001, 0.1 bpm in pooled data). The mean QTc interval decreased 
by 1 to 4% in all the desloratadine groups and by 1% in the placebo group. For all treatment groups 
the percent change from screening was 
-10% and <10% for the majority of subjects.  
≥
ECG-results in AR studies 
The incidence and pattern of cardiovascular adverse events in the DL-treatment group was similar to 
that observed in the placebo group. This updated cardiac safety database includes data from additional 
966 DL-treated and 991 placebo-treated subjects of which 74% were treated for at least 29 days. 
The proportion of subjects with at least a 30% change from Baseline in blood pressure or heart rate at 
either  visit  was  similar  among  treatment  groups.  The  frequency  of  other  cardiovascular  events  was 
similar with the exception of tachycardia, which occurred in three DL-treated subjects and no placebo-
treated  subjects.  There  were  two  reports  of  syncope  in  one  placebo-treated  subject  and  one 
montelukast-treated subject. No syncopal episodes occurred in DL-treated subjects. 
The  majority  of  ECGs  were  normal  at  both  Baseline  and  Endpoint.  No  appreciable  effects  of  DL 
treatment  were  observed  on ECG intervals. In particular, no  effects  were  observed on QTc intervals 
calculated  by  the  Fridericia  (FQTc)  and  Bazett  (BQTc)  formulae.  Distribution  data  categorised  as 
46/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
percent  changes  from  Baseline  did  not  suggest  a  pharmacological  effect  for  DL.  There  were  no 
noteworthy differences among age, race, and sex subgroups. 
One  of 966 desloratadine  subjects  had  clinically significant ECG  changes. This subject had an ECG 
that was normal at Baseline, but was considered abnormal and clinically significant at Endpoint. This 
subject had a QTc value of 394 msec at Baseline that was prolonged at Endpoint (520 msec based on 
the  Fridericia  formula).  These  QTc  values  were  consistent  with  those  calculated  using  the  Bazett 
formula. Although the ECG was of poor quality, a manual reread confirmed the prolongation of QTc 
at  Endpoint.  The  prolonged  QTc  interval  was  not  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  an  adverse 
event. The subject had a history of fluid retention. 
ECG-results in CIU studies 
Out  of  the  211  subjects  in  the  clinical  program  who  received  desloratadine,  no  severe  or  serious 
adverse events related to the cardiovascular system were reported. No patients discontinued from the 
study  due  to  cardiovascular  events.  One  desloratadine-treated  subject  reported  palpitations  of 
moderate severity together  with a severe  fatigue resulting in interruption of the therapy. The subject 
discontinued  from the study  due to a treatment  failure. The ECGs at screening and  at the  final  visit 
were  normal  and  the  medical  history  for  cardiovascular  disorders  was  negative.  Two  other subjects 
reported a mild hypertension as an adverse event (one in each treatment group); both were considered 
to be unrelated to the treatment by the investigators. 
ECGs, including ventricular rate, PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals were evaluated at screening and 
endpoint (post-treatment). Most electrocardiograms in the studies were normal at both time points. 
There were no apparent differences between the two treatment groups in ECG intervals (including the 
QTc intervals) and no noteworthy differences between males and females. The age or race subgroups 
were too small to draw definitive conclusions, however, there were no obvious differences between 
groups.  
Safety in special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
No patients out  of the 2346 desloratadine treated subjects reported an adverse  event  associated  with 
the hepatic system. 
Only 2 out of 1838 desloratadine-treated patients showed clinically meaningful elevations in hepatic 
enzyme  levels.  One  subject  in  the  10mg  desloratadine  group  of  study  C98-001  and  1  subject  in  the 
7.5mg desloratadine group of study C98-223. They had normal AST values at screening (18 U/L and 
34  U/L,  respectively)  and  elevated  values  at  endpoint  (159  U/L  and  155  U/L). In  the  former  it  was 
thought to result from the intake of creatinine powder, the latter subject refused to return for a repeat 
laboratory evaluation. 
Study  C98-354  compared the pharmacokinetics  of a single  dose  of desloratadine 7.5  mg in subjects 
with  normal  liver  function  to  subjects  with  various  degrees  of  stable  chronic  liver  disease.  Namely, 
Pugh’s Modification of Child’s classification score 5 to 6 (n=4), score 7 to 9 (n=4), and score 10 to 15 
(n=4). Subjects with hepatic dysfunction had mean AUC and Cmax values of desloratadine that were 
up to 2.4 times greater, respectively, than healthy subjects. However, there was considerably overlap 
of the  AUC  values  of the 4  groups. There  were no significant  differences in the t1/2 among subjects 
with  hepatic  dysfunction to that in normal subjects. Overall, 10 of 20 subjects reported TEAEs. The 
most frequently reported, regardless of severity of hepatic dysfunction, were headache and abdominal 
pain.  The  majority  of  the  TEAEs  were  reported  as  being  mild.  Vital  signs  showed  no  consistent 
changes of clinical relevance.  
In  response  to  the  List  of  Questions  interim  results  were  submitted  from  a  multiple  dose  study 
(P00272)  in  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment.  The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  similar  for 
desloratadine  and  3-OH-desloratadine.  AEs  were  reported  in  5/11  subjects  with  moderate  hepatic 
impairment and in 5/9 subjects with normal liver function. Headache was the most frequently reported 
AE  (4/9),  reported  by  subjects  with  normal  liver  function,  while  drowsiness  was  the  frequent  AE 
(2/11) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment. 
47/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Renal 
There were no noteworthy findings relevant to the renal system in any of the studies performed in the 
desloratadine clinical program in SAR. There was no evidence of any desloratadine-related effects on 
serum creatinine levels or on BUN levels in 1838 desloratadine-treated subjects in the multiple dose 
SAR studies.   
Study C98-355 is comparing the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of 7.5mg desloratadine in subjects 
with normal renal function to subjects with various degrees of stable chronic renal insufficiency.  
AEs  were  reported  in  2/6 subjects  each  in  the  moderate,  severe,  and  end-stage  renal  disease 
(hemodialysis-dependent) groups. No AEs were reported in subjects with normal renal function or in 
subjects with mild renal insufficiency. No AE was reported by more than 1 subject. One subject in the 
severe renal insufficiency group reported mildly increased liver function tests that were considered by 
the investigator to be possibly related to treatment.  
There was no indication of an increase incidence of AEs with increasing renal impairment.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Intake  of  H1-receptor  antagonists  has  been  associated  with  a  specific,  potentially  fatal  polymorphic 
ventricular tachycardia termed torsade de pointes. This tachycardia is usually observed in the setting 
of  a  prolonged  QTc  interval,  often  initiated  following  extrasystolic  pauses.  In  order  to  evaluate  the 
cardiovascular properties of desloratadine the applicant has performed a separate cardiovascular safety 
evaluation.  In  addition,  an  analysis  of  the  ECGs  was  conducted  based  on  the  CPMP  guidelines  for 
assessment  of  the  potential  for  QT  interval  prolongation  by  non-cardiovascular  medicinal  products 
was performed.  
In  response to the List  of Questions the  applicant submitted  data according to QTc at baseline. The 
patients  with  normal  QTc  at  baseline  (n=2393,  96%)  showed  a  comparable  pattern  for  QTc-
prolongation  between  drug  and  placebo  without  evidence  for  a  dose  response.  No  safety  concerns 
were  identified  for  patients  who  entered  the  studies  with  borderline  baseline  (n=87,  3.5%)  and 
elevated baseline QTc-values (n=19, 0.8%). Neither in the patients with borderline baseline QTc nor 
in  patients  with  elevated  baseline  QTc  was  any  increase  of  >30  msec  observed.  Based  on  this,  no 
evidence was found that desloratadine is associated with relevant QTc-prolongation, even in patients 
with borderline or abnormal baseline values. 
To address the CPMP request to also consider individual values, the applicant submitted data on the 
shifts  between  the  categories  normal  QTc,  borderline  QTc  and  prolonged  QTc  according  to  the 
CPMP-classification. The shift pattern between the categories of normal, borderline, or prolonged QTc 
of patients on desloratadine (2.5 to 20 mg) showed a random pattern without evidence of a drug effect. 
At the same time, the shifts were comparable to placebo. 
There  were  no  AEs  that  were  reported  by  the  "slow"  metabolisers  that  were  not  reported  by  the 
“normal” metabolisers. Also, there were no serious AEs reported by the two groups. Overall, except 
for  gastrointestinal  AEs reported in  “normal”  metabolisers  during  co-administration  of  desloratadine 
and erythromycin, headache was the most frequently reported AE by both groups. At the 5 mg dose 
there  is  no  difference  in  the  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  AEs  in  the  “slow”  or  “normal” 
metabolisers.  No  adverse  events  relating  to  the  cardiovascular  system  were  reported  and  the 
comparison of the electrocardiographic parameters for the “slow” and “normal” metabolisers showed 
no clinically relevant differences between the two groups. In summary the data shows that there are no 
clinically  meaningful  differences  with  respect  to  the  AE  profile  of  the  "slow"  versus  the  "normal" 
metaboliser. 
Oral lyophilisate 
Safety assessments  for the 60 subject in the  two studies P01216 and P01419 included adverse  event 
evaluations, clinical laboratory tests, physical examinations, vitals signs, and electrocardiogram (ECG) 
measurements.  Single  dose  administration  of  DL  oral  lyophilisate,  syrup  or  conventional  tablet  was 
safe and well tolerated by most subjects. Most adverse events were mild to moderate in severity. The 
most  commonly reported adverse  event  was  headache, which  occurred in 0-10%  of subjects in  each 
individual treatment group of both studies. No subjects in study P01216 experienced an adverse event 
48/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
that was considered related to treatment and only one subject in study P01419 experienced an adverse 
event (headache) that was considered related to treatment. 
There  was  one  severe  adverse  event  reported  in  study  P01216.  One  subject,  a  42-year-old  male 
Caucasian,  had  elevated  AST,  ALT  and  LDH.  The  subject  was  discontinued  from  the  trial,  and  a 
follow  up  laboratory  examination  on  Day  21  demonstrated  a  resolution  of  these  findings.  These 
changes were not considered treatment-related. 
One subject in study P01419 reported a severe headache on two separate occasions. 
Based  on  the  Clinical  Pharmacology  studies,  the  5  mg  DL  oral  lyophilisate  tablet  was  found  to  be 
bioequivalent to the conventional 5 mg DL tablet formulation and 5 mg of DL syrup. Therefore, it is 
expected that the 5 mg oral lyophilisate formulation will have the same efficacy and safety profile of 
the 5  mg DL tablet. Additionally, the bioavailability  of DL and 3-OH DL  from the  oral lyophilisate 
formulation was not affected by the concomitant administration of food or water. Therefore, the 5 mg 
oral lyophilisate formulation may be administered without regard to meals or water. 
Syrup 
In addition to the pharmacokinetic studies with desloratadine syrup in children, the paediatric safety of 
desloratadine was further evaluated in two phase III safety studies.  
Study 
number 
Primary 
objective/variable 
Design 
Desloratadine 
dose/comparator 
P00302 
P00303 
Phase III safety study of 
desloratadine in paediatric 
subjects, age 6 to 11 years 
with a history of allergic 
rhinitis or chronic 
idiopathic urticaria 
Phase III safety study of 
desloratadine in paediatric 
subjects, age 2 to 5 years 
with a history of allergic 
rhinitis or chronic 
idiopathic urticaria 
Single-centre, 
randomised, double-
blind, placebo-
controlled, parallel-
group 
Single-centre, 
randomised, double-
blind, placebo-
controlled, parallel-
group 
Desloratadine 2.5 mg once daily 
(60 subjects) versus placebo (60 
subjects) for 15 days 
Study 
populations 
52 males, 68 
females 
6-11 years 
Desloratadine 1.25 mg once 
daily (55 subjects) versus 
placebo (56 subjects) for 15 
days 
62 males, 49 
females 
2-5 years 
The studies were performed in accordance with Good Clinical Practice. 
Desloratadine syrup was evaluated at a 1.25 mg dose in children 2 to 5 years of age and at a 2.5 mg 
dose in children 6 to 11 years of age. A total of 231 subjects received at least 1 dose of study drug and 
was  evaluated  for  safety.  Safety  assessments  included  adverse  event  evaluations,  clinical  laboratory 
tests, physical examinations, vitals signs, and electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements.  
Both genders and primarily Black (66%) and Caucasian (33%) races were represented in these studies. 
Similar  to  adults,  the  incidence  of  slow  metabolisers  (higher  desloratadine  exposure)  is  higher  in 
Blacks  compared  to  Caucasians.  The  safety  profile  in  Blacks  in  this  Phase-III  paediatric  clinical 
program was not different from the remainder of the population. Therefore, it can be concluded that 
the safety of desloratadine has been adequately evaluated for use in the paediatric population. The 2 to 
5 year age group was stratified so that each year of age was adequately represented. The demographics 
of  the  patient  populations  enrolled  in  these  trials  were  similar  and  the  slight  differences  between 
treatment groups did not affect the results of these studies. 
A  summary  of  the  demographic  data  for  paediatric  subjects  with  a  documented  history  of  allergic 
rhinitis or CIU, 2 to 5  years and 6 to 11  years of age, in the placebo-controlled studies (P00303 and 
P00302, respectively) is presented in the table below. 
49/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Demographic Data at Baseline (All Randomized Subjects) 
2 to 5 Years of Age a 
6 to 11 Years of Age b 
Demographic 
Characteristics 
DL 1.25 mg 
ONCE DAILY 
(N = 55) 
Placebo 
(N = 56) 
DL 2.5 mg 
ONCE DAILY 
(N = 60) 
3.5 (1.26) 
4 
2 - 5 
3.4 (1.17) 
3 
2 - 5 
7.9 (1.51) 
8 
6 – 11 
17 (31) 
10 (18) 
9 (16) 
19 (35) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
31 (56) 
24 (44) 
13 (24) 
42 (76) 
0 
0 
18 (32) 
11 (20) 
14 (25) 
13 (23) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
31 (55) 
25 (45) 
13 (23) 
42 (75) 
0 
1 (2) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
11 (18) 
17 (28) 
12 (20) 
9 (15) 
7 (12) 
4 (7) 
31 (52) 
29 (48) 
29 (48) 
30 (50) 
1 (2) 
0 
Placebo 
(N = 60) 
8.5 (1.67) 
9 
6 – 11 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
10 (17) 
10 (17) 
8 (13) 
13 (22) 
11 (18) 
8 (13) 
21 (35) 
39 (65) 
21 (35) 
38 (63) 
0 
1 (2) 
Age (years) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Range (Min – Max) 
Age Subgroup, n (%) 
2 to < 3 years 
3 to < 4 years 
4 to < 5 years 
5 to < 6 years 
6 to < 7 years 
7 to < 8 years 
8 to < 9 years 
9 to < 10 years 
10 to < 11 years 
11 to < 12 years 
Sex, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Race, n (%) 
Caucasian 
Black 
Asian 
Hispanic 
Weight (Ib) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Range (Min - Max) 
Height (in) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Range (Min - Max) 
39.2 (8.70) 
37.0 
26 – 62 
40.7 (5.40) 
42.0 
31 – 52 
38.5 (8.69) 
37.5 
22 - 68 
40.2 (5.14) 
41.0 
30 - 48 
72.0 (25.83) 
65.0 
41 – 155 
51.6 (5.03) 
51.0 
43 – 64 
74.7 (22.70) 
69.5 
43 – 131 
53.1 (4.95) 
53.3 
42 – 63 
SD = Standard Deviation; Min = Minimum; Max = Maximum; lb = pound; in = inches. 
a:  Clinical Study Report P00303. 
b:  Clinical Study Report P00302. 
All subjects in both studies completed their respective study. Two hundred and thirty subjects (all but 
one subject) completed at least 14 days of treatment with desloratadine syrup or placebo. 
Adverse events 
Adverse  events  reported  in  the  paediatric  clinical  trials  were  noted  on  the  diary  card  by  the  child’s 
parents or guardian. When the child returns to the investigative site, events noted on the diary card, or 
mentioned by the parent/guardian, are discussed to determine the duration and severity of the event.  
The  overall incidence  of adverse  events  was similar  for the  desloratadine  and placebo  groups (7.0% 
and  10.3%,  respectively),  as  shown  in  the  table  below.  Among  the  6-  to  11-year-old  subjects,  the 
incidence  of  adverse  events  was  lower  for  subjects  treated  with  desloratadine  2.5  mg  (1.7%  [1/60]) 
than  for  subjects  treated  with  placebo  (10.0%  [6/60]).  Among  the  2-  to  5-year  old  subjects,  the 
50/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incidence of adverse events was similar for subjects treated with desloratadine 1.25 mg (12.7% [7/55]) 
and placebo (10.7% [6/56]). 
Incidence  of  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  by  Body  System/Organ  Class  and  Treatment  (All  Randomized 
Subjects) 
2 to 5 years 
Number (%) of Subjects a 
6 to 11 years 
Total 
Body System/Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
DL 1.25 mg  
(N = 55) 
Placebo 
(N = 56) 
DL 2.5 mg  
(N = 60) 
Placebo 
(N = 60) 
DL 
(N = 115) 
Placebo 
(N = 116) 
Any Adverse Eventb 
Body As a Whole – General Disorders 
Fever 
Headache 
Gastrointestinal System Disorders 
Gastroenteritis 
Vomiting 
Resistance Mechanism Disorders 
Infection, Viral 
Otitis Media 
Varicella 
Skin and Appendages Disorders 
Rash 
Urinary System Disorders 
Urinary Tract Infection 
7 (12.7) 
6 (10.7) 
1 (1.7) 
6 (10.0) 
8 (7.0) 
12 (10.3) 
4 (7.3) 
3 (5.5) 
1 (1.8) 
0 
0 
0 
3 (5.5) 
1 (1.8) 
0 
2 (3.6) 
1 (1.8) 
1 (1.8) 
2 (3.6) 
2 (3.6) 
5 (8.9) 
3 (5.4) 
3 (5.4) 
0 
0 
0 
2 (3.6) 
1 (1.8) 
1 (1.8) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.7) 
0 
1 (1.7) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
4 (6.7) 
0 
4 (6.7) 
2 (3.3) 
2 (3.3) 
2 (3.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
5 (4.3) 
3 (2.6) 
2 (1.7) 
0 
0 
0 
3 (2.6) 
1 (<1.0) 
0 
2 (1.7) 
1 (<1.0) 
1 (<1.0) 
2 (1.7) 
2 (1.7) 
9 (7.8) 
3 (2.6) 
7 (6.0) 
2 (1.7) 
2 (1.7) 
2 (1.7) 
2 (1.7) 
1 (<1.0) 
1 (<1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
a:  Number of subjects reporting treatment-emergent adverse events at least once during the study. Some subjects may 
have reported more than 1 treatment-emergent adverse event. 
b:  Without regard to relationship to study drug. 
The most common adverse events were headache (which was reported by less than 2% among subjects 
in each of the desloratadine groups and 5% to 7% of subjects in the placebo groups) and fever (which 
was only reported among desloratadine and placebo subjects in the 2- to 5-year-old group; 3 [< 6%] 
subjects each). 
No  adverse  events  categorised  as  general  cardiovascular  or  heart  rate  and  rhythm  disorders  were 
reported.  In  addition,  there  were  no  reports  of  dry  mouth  (a  sensitive  indicator  of  anticholinergic 
activity), somnolence, insomnia, fatigue, paradoxical excitability, or parakinesia. 
With the exception of 1 report of moderate ear infection in the placebo group (2 to 5 years of age), all 
adverse events, regardless of age group or treatment, were mild in intensity. 
Only  2  treatment-related  adverse  events  were  reported  in  the  clinical  program:  2 (3.6%)  of  the 
55 subjects  in  the  desloratadine 1.25  mg  group  had  adverse  events  (1 report  each  of  headache  and 
rash) that the investigator considered possibly related to treatment. Both events were of mild intensity. 
Neither  adverse  event  led  to  discontinuation.  The  subject  that  experienced  the  rash  had  a  history  of 
eczema  on  his  arms,  legs  and  feet  since  birth.  The  rash  occurred  on  Day  11  and  treatment  was 
interrupted for 4 days. The subject was administered a dose of desloratadine syrup on the last day of 
treatment. No treatment-related adverse events were reported in the placebo group. 
All treatment-emergent adverse events among the 6- to 11-year-old subjects who received either 
desloratadine 2.5 mg or placebo were not considered related to treatment. 
No deaths or severe adverse events were reported and no subject discontinued study treatment. 
A total of 6 subjects had treatment interrupted. One subject in the 2- to 5-year old group had treatment 
with  desloratadine  1.25  mg  interrupted  for  4  days  due  to  an  adverse  event  (rash;  see  above).  Two 
subjects in the 6- to 11-year-old  group  had placebo  treatment interrupted  for 1 day  each because  of 
adverse events (both subjects reporting both gastroenteritis and vomiting). 
51/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, 3 subjects in the 2- to 5-year old group each missed 1 dose of study drug:  2 subjects in the 
desloratadine 1.25  mg  group  because  of  chicken  pox  and  1 subject  in  the  placebo  group  because  of 
dental work. 
There were no apparent trends in adverse event rates between the treatment groups based on age. No 
adverse event was reported for more than 1 subject within each age group, with the exception of 
headache, which was reported for two 5-year-old placebo subjects and two 11-year-old placebo 
subjects. There were no apparent trends in adverse event rates between the treatment groups based on 
sex and race, although the proportions of subjects in each subgroup were small. 
Clinical Laboratory Evaluations 
Mean  changes  from  Baseline  were  examined  for  vital  signs  (diastolic  and  systolic  blood  pressure, 
heart  rate,  and  respiration  rate)  after  1  and  2  weeks  of  treatment.  No  mean  changes  in  vital  signs 
indicative  of a treatment  effect were  observed among  subjects at either time point, regardless of age 
group  or  treatment.  Results  of  vital  signs  evaluations  stratified  by  age,  race,  and  sex  showed  no 
meaningful differences between subgroups. 
No  clinically  relevant  changes  in  median  laboratory  test  values  were  observed  between  treatment 
groups. Median percent changes in laboratory results, stratified by age, race, and sex showed no trend 
of a differential response in change from Baseline. 
The majority of subjects of all age groups remained within the normal range at Endpoint and no 
clinically significant trends were observed. None of the individual changes was considered an adverse 
event and no subject was discontinued from the study because of a laboratory abnormality. 
Clinically meaningful laboratory abnormalities were pre-defined by the sponsor as a blood chemistry 
value  ≥ 2.6 times  the  upper  limit  of  normal,  haemoglobin  concentration  ≤ 9.4 g/dL,  platelet  count 
≤ 74,000/µL, or white blood cell count (WBC) ≤ 2,900/µL. These definitions have been utilised by the 
sponsor in studies involving subjects with other allergic conditions. The investigator also determined 
if these changes had clinical relevance. 
Two subjects in the 2- to 5-year old group (desloratadine 1.25 mg, 2) had values that met at least 1 of 
these criteria. One desloratadine subject had a low haemoglobin (9.5 g/dl) at Screening that was also 
low (9.3 g/dl) at the Final visit. A second desloratadine subject had a markedly elevated alkaline 
phosphatase (1186 U/l) at Screening that was repeated 1 day later and found to be within the reference 
range (243 U/l); at the Final visit, it was slightly above the reference range (398 U/l). No follow-up 
data were available. All values were judged by the investigator to be of no clinical relevance. 
Three subjects in the 6- to 11-year old group (desloratadine 2.5 mg, 1; placebo, 2) had values that met 
at least 1 of these criteria. One placebo subject had liver function tests (ALT/AST) in the normal range 
at Screening and had elevated levels at the Final visit (338 U/l, 214 U/l, respectively). The elevations 
were not considered clinically significant and the subject was asymptomatic at study completion. No 
follow-up data were available. The other 2 subjects (1 desloratadine, 1 placebo) had abnormal 
laboratory test values (platelet count, creatinine, respectively) at Screening that normalised at the Final 
visit. The single abnormal value at final visit, when taken in the overall context of the experience with 
loratadine in children and adults, and the desloratadine clinical program in adults, is not considered 
clinically relevant. 
Cardiovascular Safety 
Data from the recently approved application for desloratadine 5.0 mg tablets demonstrated no 
indication of any cardiovascular concerns for desloratadine. No clinically relevant effect of 
desloratadine on any electrocardiographic parameter was observed in clinical pharmacology studies 
conducted at 9 times the proposed clinical dose of 5.0 mg, or in combination with drugs that have the 
potential to interfere with its metabolism. 
Of the 231 subjects in the desloratadine syrup clinical program, no treatment-emergent adverse events 
categorised as general cardiovascular or heart rate and rhythm disorders were reported; there were no 
noteworthy differences among age, race, and sex subgroups. Vital signs evaluations showed that there 
were no meaningful differences in heart rate associated with desloratadine syrup compared with the 
placebo treatment. Overall, the majority of ECGs were normal at both Baseline and at Endpoint. There 
52/60 
EMEA 2004 

 
 
 
were no apparent differences among any of the treatment groups in ECG intervals, and no noteworthy 
differences among age, race, and sex subgroups. Statistically significant differences in ventricular rate 
were observed in desloratadine syrup-treated subjects compared to placebo, but were not considered 
clinically relevant. 
ECGs were recorded at Baseline (last measurement occurring on or before treatment start date) and 
within 1 to 3 hours after dosing following 1 week of treatment and also following 2 weeks of 
treatment. In addition to the analyses of the measured intervals QT, PR, and QRS, and the ventricular 
rate (VR), analyses of the calculated parameters, Fridericia QTc and Bazett QTc, were also performed. 
Changes  from  Baseline  were  categorised  according  to  the  following  definitions:  less  than  30 
milliseconds, 31 to 60 milliseconds, or 61 or more milliseconds. 
The majority of ECGs, regardless of age or treatment group, was within normal limits at Baseline and 
remained  so  after  1  and  2  weeks  of  treatment.  No  differences  between  treatments  were  apparent. 
Abnormal ECG results are shown in the table below. 
Abnormal ECG Results 
Subject 
Sex 
Parameter 
Screening 
Day 1 
Visit 1 
Day 8 
Visit 3 
Final Visit 
Day 15 
Visit 4 
Comment 
DL 1.25 mg 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
170 
102 
119 
P00303-068 
Male 
P00303-115 
Female 
P00303-080 
Male 
P00302-037 
Male 
P00302-071 
Male 
P00302-045 
Female 
P00303-061 
Male 
P00302-038 
Male 
P00302-077 
Male 
P00302-105 
Male 
P00302-086 
Female 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
Ventricular Rate (bpm) 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
Left ventricular 
hypertrophy 
P00303-090 
Female 
P00303-117 
Male 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
Bazett QTc (msec) 
Fridericia QTc (msec) 
167 
388 
368 
82 
65 
59 
477 
436 
146 
452 
390 
65 
409 
381 
444 
426 
Yes 
471 
422 
468 
414 
160 
452 
411 
106 
DL 2.5 mg 
63 
66 
399 
387 
Placebo 
168 
415 
350 
62 
398 
365 
428 
417 
Yes 
453 
413 
429 
394 
122 
451 
418 
94 
59 
54 
405 
371 
105 
397 
362 
54 
473 
422 
453 
431 
Yes 
426 
390 
441 
401 
Sinus tachycardia 
Not clinically significant 
Left axis deviation QRS 31° 
Sinus tachycardia 
Not clinically significant 
Prolonged QTc (Visits 3,4) 
Not clinically significant 
Sinus bradycardia 
Not clinically significant 
Sinus bradycardia 
Not clinically significant 
Prolonged QTc (Visit 1) 
Not clinically significant 
Sinus tachycardia 
Not clinically significant 
Prolonged QTc (Visit 1) 
Sinus bradycardia 
Not clinically significant 
Prolonged QTc (Visit 4) 
Not clinically significant 
Prolonged QTc (Visit 4) 
Not clinically significant 
Left ventricular hypertrophy 
Not clinically significant.  
(Further evaluation:  ectopic 
atrial rhythm with high voltage) 
Prolonged QTc (Visit 1) 
Not clinically significant 
Prolonged QTc (Visit 1) 
Not clinically significant 
Among the 2- to 5-year olds, 2 subjects in the desloratadine 1.25 mg group had abnormal ECGs (sinus 
tachycardia  170  bpm  and  left  axis  deviation  QRS  31°;  sinus  tachycardia  167  bpm)  at  Baseline  that 
normalised by Day 15. One subject in the placebo group had a normal ECG at Baseline (146 bpm) that 
was abnormal (168 bpm, sinus tachycardia) at Day 8, but normalised by Day 15 (105 bpm).  
53/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due  to  the  higher  heart  rates  in  children  and  due  to  the  "over  correction"  of  the  Bazett  formula  at 
higher  heart  rates,  there  were  substantial  differences  between  the  QTc-values  corrected  by  the 
Fridericia  and  the  Bazett  formula.  One  male  subject  in  the  desloratadine  1.25  mg  group  had  an 
increase of the Bazett QTc by a maximum of 63 msec and of the Fridericia QTc by a maximum of 50 
msec. Another subject in the placebo group had an increase of the Bazett QTc by a maximum  of 64 
msec and of the Fridericia QTc by a maximum of 41 msec. Other subjects had major shortenings over 
Baseline. The pattern observed was a random pattern without evidence for a drug effect. 
Among the 6- to 11-year olds, 3 subjects (desloratadine 2.5  mg, 1; placebo, 2) had normal ECGs  at 
Baseline that were abnormal at Day 8 or Day 15, and 1 subject (DL 2.5 mg) had an abnormal ECG at 
Baseline  that  was  normal  at  Day  8  and  abnormal  at  Day  15.  None  of  the  changes  were  considered 
clinically significant. The abnormal ECG findings included sinus bradycardia (DL, 2; placebo, 1) and 
left  ventricular  hypertrophy  (placebo).  A  further  review  of  serial  ECGs  by  the  sponsor  of  the  left 
ventricular  hypertrophy  ECG  showed  an  ectopic  atrial  rhythm  with  high  voltage,  not  clinically 
significant,  and  not  suggestive  of  left  ventricular  hypertrophy.  This  remained  unchanged  from 
Baseline throughout the treatment. 
There were no statistically significant differences between the treatment groups in the ventricular rate, 
PR, QRS, QT, Bazett QTc or Fridericia QTc intervals at Baseline in either age group. 
Statistically  significant  differences  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  2-  to  5-year  old  group 
were  noted  for  change  from  Baseline  in  ventricular  rate  (Day  8  and  Day  15;  p  ≤  0.039)  and  QT 
interval  (Day  15;  p  =  0.046),  but  the  differences  were  not  considered  clinically  meaningful.  Mean 
values  for  ventricular  rate  in  the  desloratadine  treatment  group  (102.1  bpm  at  Baseline)  showed  a 
temporary increase at Day 8 (+4.29), then normalised at Day 15 (-0.71). Mean QT interval values for 
the desloratadine treatment group (Baseline 319.6 msec) showed an increase of 3.56 by Day 15, while 
for the placebo group (Baseline 318.3 msec) there was an increase of 13.04. There was no statistically 
significant  difference  between  treatments  in  the  change  from  Baseline  for  PR,  QRS,  Bazett  QTc  or 
Fridericia  QTc  intervals  at  either  post  baseline  time  point.  No  subject  had  a  Fridericia  QTc  greater 
than 430 msec at either time point.  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  in  the  6- to  11-year  old 
group for change from Baseline in ventricular rate, PR, QRS, QT, or Fridericia QTc intervals at either 
post baseline visit. One male subject in the placebo treatment group with a Baseline QTc of 419 msec 
had a Fridericia QTc interval of 445 msec (slightly above the normal reference range) after 2 weeks of 
treatment. No apparent trends for mean change and mean percent change from Baseline in ECG values 
were observed by age, sex, and race.   
For  all  ECG  intervals,  the  percent  change  from  Baseline  for  the  majority  of  subjects  was  between 
-10%  and  < +10%  at  both  post  baseline  visits.  There  were  no  apparent  differences  between 
desloratadine 1.25 mg, desloratadine 2.5 mg, and placebo for any of the ECG intervals. Subjects in the 
desloratadine groups had a greater frequency of increases ≥ 20% in ventricular rate compared with the 
respective  placebo  groups.  Among  subjects  in  the  2-  to  5-year  old  group,  8 (15%)  desloratadine 
subjects and 2 (4%) placebo subjects had increases ≥ 20% at both Day 8 and Day 15. Among subjects 
in the 6- to 11-year-old group, 4 (7%) desloratadine subjects and 1 (2%) placebo subject had increases 
≥ 20% at Day 8, and 3 (5%) desloratadine subjects and 2 (3%) placebo subjects had increases ≥ 20% 
at Day 15. None of these changes were considered clinically significant. 
Hepatic and Renal Safety 
Safety  data  from  the  2 Phase-III  paediatric  studies  for  desloratadine syrup  uncovered  no  particular 
safety concerns relevant to the hepatic or renal system. Of the 231 subjects in the desloratadine syrup 
clinical program, no subject from the desloratadine group experienced adverse events associated with 
the hepatic or renal system. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
Based  on  the  assessment  of  the  first  PSUR  the  MAH  concluded  that  during  the  exposure  period  of 
January  to  June  2001,  26  spontaneous  reports  with  allergic  drug  reactions  were  received.  The 
reporting rate was 0.002% (26/1,300,000). The ADRs include a number of specific and non-specific 
54/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
descriptions  of  reactions,  such  as  pruritus,  rash,  urticaria,  angioedema  and  bronchospasm.  The 
following  sentence  was  added  to  section  4.8  of  the  SPC  and  section  4  of  the  PL  through  a  Type  II 
variation:  
"Very  rare  cases  of  hypersensitivity  reactions,  including  anaphylaxis  and  rash,  have  been  reported 
during the marketing of desloratadine". 
The following terms were introduced in section 4.8 of the SPC and section 4 of the Package Leaflet 
through  a  Type  II  variation  following  the  assessment  of  the  third  PSUR:  “elevated  liver  enzymes”, 
“bilirubin  increased”,  “tachycardia”,  “palpitations”,  “diarrhoea”,  “dyspepsia”,  “abdominal  pain”, 
“nausea” and “vomiting”. The statement regarding hypersensitivity was modified to mention the terms 
“angioedema”,  “pruritus”  and  “urticaria”.  These  events  were  reported  very  rarely  during  the  post-
marketing  period.  Furthermore,  section  4.8  of  the  SPC  was  reorganised  by  system  organ  class  as 
requested by the CPMP.  
Following the assessment of the fourth PSUR the following terms: ‘somnolence’ and ‘dizziness’ were 
included in the SPC. The addition  of the term ‘somnolence’  was  reflected in subsequent  changes to 
section 4.7 (Effects on ability to drive and use machines) and 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic properties) of the 
SPC. These changes were also reflected in the Package Leaflet.   
Desloratadine and hypospadia 
On 25 April 2002, Sweden triggered a referral to the EMEA under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
for  loratadine  containing  medicinal  products.  The  reason  was  data  from  the  Swedish  Medical  Birth 
Registry (SMBR) suggesting that the use of loratadine during the first trimester of pregnancy may be 
associated with increased risk of hypospadias (a non-life threatening condition in which the opening of 
the penis is on the underside rather than the tip of the penis). As desloratadine is the major metabolite 
of loratadine a  referral  was therefore also triggered  for desloratadine  containing medicinal products. 
The separate  referral procedure  for  loratadine  containing  medicinal products is not addressed in this 
EPAR  since  the  CPMP is  also  assessing  other  aspects  of  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  these  nationally 
approved products. The following scientific discussion therefore only refers to the scientific discussion 
and conclusions for the desloratadine referral.  
Studies Conducted to Date 
Swedish Medical Birth Registry (SMBR) 
In  Sweden,  drug  use  is  recorded  at  the  first  antenatal  care  visit,  which  for  at  least  90%  of  pregnant 
women is made before week 14 of pregnancy. The recorded drug use in the first trimester is entered 
into the SMBR, and these data are thereafter linked to data on pregnancy outcome. Thus, drug use is 
recorded  prospectively  to  pregnancy  outcome.  Nearly  all  deliveries  (at  least  98%)  in  Sweden  are 
reported  to  the  SMBR,  i.e.  about  90  000  /  year,  and  the  database  contains  more  than  500  000 
pregnancies. 
In  an  analysis  of  data  from  the  SMBR  in  November  2001,  15  cases  of  hypospadias  were  identified 
among  2,780  loratadine-exposed  pregnancies.  The  total  prevalence  of  hypospadias  observed  in  the 
SMBR is 2.1 out of 1000 pregnancies (boys and girls). The corresponding figure in children (boys and 
girls) born by mothers who claim to have taken loratadine during early pregnancy was 5.4. The overall 
adjusted  odds ratio, stratifying  for  year  of birth,  maternal age and parity,  was 2.3 [95% CI 1.4-3.6]. 
Among  the  15  cases,  the  severity  was  recorded  as  mild  in  11  cases,  moderate  in  one  case  and  not 
recorded in 3 cases. 
Hypospadias  is  a  relatively  common  malformation.  Reported  background  incidences  show  large 
variation; however, the CPMP found that the total prevalence of hypospadias in the SMBR falls within 
the reported background incidences of 0.5 to 3 per 1000 live births. 
The  CPMP  considered  that  possible  biases  that  have  been  identified  in  the  SMBR,  including 
misclassifications,  would  bias  the  risk  estimate  towards  1  or  not  affect  it.  The  existence  of 
misclassifications  should  be  viewed  as  contributing  to  the  strength  of  the  signal.  That  the  effect  of 
non-differential  misclassification  bias  is  to  underestimate  the  real  association  is  in  line  with  known 
55/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
epidemiological  theory  and  experience.  That  there  would  be  any  bias  in  the  opposite  direction  e.g. 
through the recording of the drug use (the outcome of the pregnancy is not known at the time of the 
antenatal  visit)  or  the  diagnosis  of  hypospadias  is  unlikely.  The  CPMP  found  that  the  known 
confounding factors have been corrected for in the analyses (e.g. parity, smoking, age etc).  
The  SMBR  has  analysed  the  occurrence  of  hypospadias  with  other  antihistamines  used  for  allergy 
treatment. The CPMP concluded that there is no indication of a class effect, of a relation to underlying 
disease or a bias against this group of products as a whole. 
Outcome of pregnancies in women taking desloratadine or loratadine 
As  of  June  1  2002,  the  MAH’s  post-marketing  surveillance  database  contained  4  cases  involving  a 
pregnancy  and  maternal  exposure  to  desloratadine.  No  cases  of  foetal  disorder  or  birth  defects, 
including hypospadia, were reported.  
The MAH had received approximately 250 reports of loratadine use during pregnancy. These included 
the 15 hypospadia cases from the SMBR, and 8 spontaneous reports that were received following the 
initiation  of  the  Article  31  referral  procedure.  Based  on  these  reports  and  taking  the  estimated 
worldwide use of loratadine (over 15 109 patient days of therapy) into account, the CPMP concluded 
that  the  spontaneous  reporting  data  did  not  raise  concerns  regarding  the  use  of  loratadine  during 
pregnancy. On the other hand, considering an expected considerable underreporting, these data are not 
robust enough to conclude that use of loratadine during pregnancy is safe. 
No reports of hypospadias associated with loratadine/desloratadine were identified in a search of the 
published  literature.  Three  studies  comparing  the  outcomes  of  loratadine-exposed  pregnancies  to 
controls were identified. 
The CPMP concluded that the three published studies do not indicate an increased risk of congenital 
malformations with loratadine/desloratadine use. However, the total number of women exposed to 
loratadine in these studies is less than 200, which is too low to conclude on the lack of risk. 
Preclinical studies 
External Male Genitalia Development and Importance of Androgens 
The CPMP concluded that antiandrogenic activity is the only currently known non-genetic mechanism 
for  induction  of  hypospadias.  Nevertheless,  there  are  examples  where  an  association  between 
hypospadias  and  drug  intake  have  been  demonstrated  in  humans  e.g.  insulins  and  valproic  acid.  In 
these cases, possible mechanisms have not been established, but they are probably not directly related 
to antiandrogenic activity. 
Moreover,  the  CPMP  considered  that  there  is  no  evidence  from  the  literature  or  other  sources 
supporting  that  hypospadias  induced  via  the  known  mechanism  may  occur  without  signs  of  other 
hormonally related effects i.e. signs of antiandrogenic actions.  
Antiandrogenic endpoints in loratadine /desloratadine studies 
The  CPMP  assessed  a  number  of  parameters  addressing  antiandrogenic  potential,  including 
hypospadias in the loratadine and desloratadine reproductive toxicity studies. One of these studies was 
designed specifically to evaluate the potential antiandrogenic effect of loratadine in male rat offspring. 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  results  of  this  study  demonstrated  that  loratadine  did  not  affect  the 
development  of  the  male  F1  genital  tract,  including  hypospadias,  in  rats  exposed  throughout 
organogenesis and early postnatal development (up to day 4 post partum). The CPMP concluded that 
there was no indication of antiandrogenic effects in the studied endpoints. 
Other birth registries and Case Control Studies  
The MAH presented results from two other birth registries. When combined they provide experience 
in  318  loratadine-exposed  women  during  the  first  trimester  of  pregnancy.  Examination  revealed  no 
reports of hypospadias associated with maternal loratadine use and no evidence of an increased rate of 
major  congenital  abnormalities  among  offspring  of  mothers  exposed  to  loratadine  during  the  first 
trimester.  
56/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  presented  registry  data  tend  to  confirm  that  loratadine/desloratadine 
does  not  represent  a  major 
if  no  association  between 
teratogenic  risk.  However,  even 
that 
loratadine/desloratadine  and  hypospadia  was 
loratadine/desloratadine does not increase the rate of hypospadias since the number of pregnancies in 
the registries was too small. 
it  can  not  be  concluded 
identified, 
The  MAH  provided  preliminary  results  from  a  case  control  study.  The  CPMP  concluded  that  the 
preliminary  results  show  no  increase  in  the  odds  ratio  compared  to  a  standard  control  population. 
However, the sample size was limited and the confidence interval wide.  
Overall conclusion on desloratadine and hypospadia 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  safety  findings  regarding  hypospadia  emerging  for  loratadine  are 
considered  to  be  relevant  also  for  desloratadine,  being  the  major  metabolite  of  loratadine,  until  the 
opposite has been demonstrated. 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  benefit/risk  balance  of  desloratadine  remains  favourable  and  that  the 
available  preclinical  data  for  desloratadine/loratadine  does  not  indicate  that  desloratadine  has  either 
genotoxic or antiandrogenic potential. 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  SMBR  provides  a  robust  signal  that  loratadine  exposure  during 
pregnancy increases the risk of hypospadia. Reasonable biases that have been identified in the SMBR, 
including misclassifications, cannot explain the occurrence of the signal. Hence, the current finding is 
either a chance finding or a true drug effect. The preclinical data argue against a true drug effect. Thus, 
based  on  the  available  data,  a  causal  relationship  can  neither  be  confirmed  nor  excluded.  As  a 
precautionary measure the CPMP recommended, that the SPC for desloratadine containing medicinal 
products  should  be  amended  to  state  that  the  use  of  desloratadine  during  pregnancy  is  not 
recommended.  This  change  to  section  4.6  of  the  SPC  and  section  2  of  the  Package  Leaflet  was 
introduced through a Type II variation. 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  continued  monitoring  of  desloratadine  is  warranted  and  that  the  signal 
should be further investigated. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of the film-coated tablets is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
The  quality  of  the  oral  lyophilisate  and  the  syrup  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in 
accordance  with  the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Satisfactory  evidence  is  provided  that  product 
manufacture is  well  controlled, that  consistency  of  manufacture is  achieved  and that stable products 
results. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Desloratadine is the major active metabolite of loratadine. It is a more potent H1 receptor antagonist 
than  loratadine  itself  and  in  most  preclinical  studies  desloratadine  Cmax  and  AUC  were  higher  after 
desloratadine  than  after  an  equimolar  dose  of  loratadine.  In  particular,  desloratadine  is  also  a  more 
potent antimuscarinic agent than loratadine when tested at concentrations and doses which far exceed 
those which exhibit antihistamine activity. Furthermore, this activity of desloratadine is not considered 
to be of clinical relevance.  
The  genotoxicity  studies  showed  that  neither  desloratadine  nor  the  major  human  metabolite  3-
hydroxy-desloratadine are genotoxic. 
The  isoenzyme  responsible  for  the  major  human  metabolic  pathway  of  desloratadine,  e.g. 
hydroxylation in position 3 remains to be identified. However, polymorphism seems not to be related 
to the  classical CYP isoenzymes. Therefore, the  drug interactions  are anticipated to be less than  for 
loratadine. 
57/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Taking into account that the desloratadine conventional 5-mg tablet formulation and the desloratadine 
syrup and oral lyophilisates are bioequivalent, and based upon the pre-clinical data presented for the 
film-coated tablet, no toxicological concerns were raised regarding the use of the desloratadine syrup 
or oral lyophilisate formulations. 
Efficacy 
Film-coated tablet 
The data provided support the claim that doses of 5 mg or 7.5 mg are effective in reducing symptoms 
of  Seasonal  Allergic  Rhinitis  as  compared  to  placebo.  The  results  are  corroborated  by  a  pooled 
analysis of the four trials, which showed desloratadine 5 and 7.5 mg to be superior to placebo and the 
effect of the two desloratadine doses not to be significantly different.  
However,  although  the  mean  change  following  desloratadine  5  and  7.5  mg  might  be  statistically 
significantly  higher  than  following  placebo,  the  numerical  difference  is  small.  The  reduction  of 
symptom scores was between 25 and 30% from baseline, which seems to be in concordance with the 
effect seen for other antihistamines in SAR. However, it seems from the percentage of improvement in 
Total Symptom Score that the clinical efficacy of 5 mg desloratadine is probably not superior to 10 mg 
loratadine. 
The  efficacy  of  desloratadine has not been studied in  active  comparator trials. This was  found to be 
acceptable, as desloratadine is the active metabolite of loratadine, which has been on the market for a 
long  time.  Moreover,  pharmacokinetic  data  show  that  desloratadine  exposure  is  essentially  similar 
after 5 mg desloratadine and 10 mg loratadine. 
The symptom cough was evaluated in 3 out of 4 studies (C98-223, C98224 and C98-225). In none of 
these  studies  did  the  mean  change  between  baseline  and  post  treatment  values  attain  statistical 
significance compared to placebo. This is also the case for the symptom nasal congestion.  
The  onset  of  action  for  desloratadine  has  been  demonstrated  to  occur  from  1  to  2  hours  after 
administration.  
Data provided in a Type II variation was found to support the extension of the indication to Allergic 
Rhinitis.  The  data  showed  that  5 mg  desloratadine  was  effective  in  reducing  the  symptoms  of  AR 
compared to placebo.  
Data provided in a Type  II variation  was found to support the  extension  of the indication to include 
Chronic Idiopathic  Urticaria. The data showed that 5 mg  desloratadine  was effective in reducing the 
symptoms of CIU compared to placebo.  
Oral lyophilisate 
The DL 5 mg film-coated tablet has been found to be effective in the treatment of allergic rhinitis and 
chronic idiopathic  urticaria. Bioequivalence  of plasma profiles  of the DL 5  mg  oral lyophilisate and 
DL 5 mg film-coated tablet supports the efficacy of the DL 5 mg oral lyophilisate formulation. 
Syrup 
The  Clinical  Pharmacology  program  completed  by  the  sponsor  has  adequately  evaluated  the 
pharmacokinetics of desloratadine syrup in paediatrics.  
The  exposure  of  desloratadine  in  2-  to  5-  and  6-  to  11-year  olds,  following  the  administration  of  a 
single 1.25  mg and 2.5  mg  dose  of desloratadine syrup, respectively, is  comparable to the  exposure 
observed in adults following a single dose of desloratadine 5.0 mg tablet. 
Based  on  the  demonstrated  safety  and  efficacy  of  desloratadine  in  adults,  and  also  on  a  favourable 
safety  and  efficacy  profile  from  the  considerable  loratadine  syrup  exposure  in  the  paediatric 
population,  it  is  anticipated  that  desloratadine  syrup  will  be  safe  and  efficacious  in  the  paediatric 
population. 
The bioavailability of the syrup formulation is unaffected by the concomitant administration of food. 
It  is  considered acceptable  to  extrapolate  paediatric  efficacy  of  desloratadine  from  the  desloratadine 
efficacy studies in adults, as a full  clinical program  has been performed  with  desloratadine in adults 
58/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
and  since  the  nature  and  course  of  the  diseases  (allergic  rhinitis  and  CIU)  are  similar  in  adults  and 
paediatric patients. 
Safety  
Film-coated tablet 
In a pooled analysis of safety data from ten studies of DL 5mg tablet in several indications (including 
the AR and CIU indications) the most common related TEAE was headache with 4.5% in subjects in 
the desloratadine 5 mg group and 3.9% in the placebo group. Other frequently reported TEAEs were 
dry  mouth  (2.6%  for  desloratadine,  1.8%  for  placebo),  fatigue  (1.8%  for  desloratadine,  0.6%  for 
placebo) and somnolence (1.9% for both desloratadine and placebo). 
Most of the AEs reported during the studies were graded as mild to moderate in severity. The overall 
incidence of severe adverse events in the SAR studies was similar among the treatment groups with 3-
5%  in  the  desloratadine  groups  and  3%  in  the  placebo  group.  In  the  CIU  studies  severe  treatment 
related adverse events occurred in less than 1% in both treatment groups. 
Neither  the  mean  values  QTc  nor  the  individual  changes  showed  an  effect  of  desloratadine  on  QTc 
compared to placebo. 
The  polymorphism  in  the  metabolism  of  desloratadine  did  not  lead  to  higher  adverse  event  rates  or 
new adverse events and it was not associated with a change in cardiovascular safety. 
The  enzyme(s)  as  well  as  the  tissue  site(s)  responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  desloratadine  to  its 
primary metabolite 3-OH-desloratadine has not yet been identified. However, it is anticipated that the 
potential for PK interactions of desloratadine is low, as the metabolism does not appear to be mediated 
by  a  known  cytochrome  P450  enzyme  and  the  drug  is  neither  a  substrate  or  an  inhibitor  of  p-
glycoprotein. 
Normal  metabolisers  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  could  experience  a  3-fold  increase  in  the 
desloratadine  exposure  (median  AUC).  However,  no  apparent  difference  between  the  exposure  to 
desloratadine  in  slow  metabolisers  with  and  without  hepatic  impairment  was  seen.  Given  that  the 
increase in median exposure between normal and poor metabolisers is 6-fold and that there is no major 
differences  in  the  safety  profile  for  poor  and  normal  metabolisers  a  dose  reduction  is  not 
recommended in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Patients with varying degrees of renal impairment, who were normal metabolisers has a 1.5-2.5 fold 
increase  in  AUC  for  desloratadine  and  minimal  changes  in  3-OH-desloratadine  concentrations, 
therefore  a  warning  concerning  the  use  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  is  recommended.  This  is  
reflected in the SPC (see section 4.4 Special warnings and special precautions for use). 
Oral lyophilisate 
The  DL  5 mg  film-coated  tablet  has  been  found  to  be  safe  in  the  treatment  of  allergic  rhinitis  and 
chronic idiopathic  urticaria. Bioequivalence  of plasma profiles  of the DL 5  mg  oral lyophilisate and 
DL 5 mg film-coated tablet supports the safety of the DL 5 mg oral lyophilisate formulation. 
Syrup 
Adverse events, vital signs, and ECG data from the Phase-III clinical trials in the syrup clinical 
program uncovered no significant indication of cardiovascular concerns with desloratadine syrup at 
the proposed dosages for children 2 to 11 years of age. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Film-coated tablet 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is considered to be positive considering that 
• 
the clinical efficacy as compared to placebo seems comparable to other established antihistamines, 
although the efficacy of 5 mg desloratadine is probably not superior to 10 mg of loratadine 
59/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
although  the  isoenzyme  responsible  for  the  major  human  metabolic  pathway  of  desloratadine 
remains  to  be  identified,  the  polymorphism  seems  not  to  be  related  to  the  classical  CYP 
isoenzymes and drug interactions are therefore anticipated to be less than for loratadine 
there are no safety issues including changes in cardiovascular safety associated with desloratadine 
or the observed polymorphism. 
Oral lyophilisate 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is considered to be positive considering that 
•  Desloratadine 5 mg film-coated tablet is considered a safe and effective dose in the treatment of 
AR and CIU in adults and adolescents.  
•  Pharmacokinetic  studies  have  shown  that  oral  administration  of  a  5  mg  oral  lyophilisate  is 
bioequivalent to a dose of 5 mg desloratadine film-coated tablets 
The  DL  5 mg  film-coated  tablet  has  been  found  to  be  safe  in  the  treatment  of  allergic  rhinitis  and 
chronic idiopathic  urticaria. Bioequivalence  of plasma profiles  of the DL 5  mg  oral lyophilisate and 
DL 5 mg film-coated tablet supports the safety of the DL 5 mg oral lyophilisate formulation. 
Syrup 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is considered to be positive considering that 
•  Desloratadine 5 mg film-coated tablet is considered a safe and effective dose in the treatment of 
AR and CIU in adults and adolescents.  
•  Pharmacokinetic  studies  have  shown  that  oral  administration  of  a  5  mg  desloratadine  syrup  is 
bioequivalent to a dose of 5 mg desloratadine film-coated tablet in adults 
The  exposure  of  desloratadine  in  2-  to  5-  and  6-  to  11-year  olds,  following  the  administration  of  a 
single 1.25  mg and 2.5  mg  dose  of desloratadine syrup, respectively, is  comparable to the  exposure 
observed in adults following a single dose of desloratadine 5.0 mg tablet. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk profile  of  Aerius in relieving the symptoms  of allergic rhinitis and  of  chronic idiopathic 
urticaria  was  favourable and therefore recommended the granting  of the  marketing authorisation  for 
Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablet, Aerius 5 mg oral lyophilisate and Aerius 0.5 mg/ml syrup. 
60/60 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
