SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
Introduction 
Seasonal  allergic  rhinitis  (SAR)  is  the  most  commonly  reported  allergic  disease,  affecting  an 
estimated  23%  of  the  population  in  Europe.  The  characteristic  symptoms  of  SAR  include  sneezing, 
rhinorrhea,  nasal  pruritus,  eye  symptoms,  palatal  itching  and  congestion.  Antihistamines  are 
recommended for use as first-line therapy in SAR. However, antihistamines may not provide adequate 
relief to patients with nasal congestion. This justifies the need for combining an antihistamine with a 
nasal  decongestant.  First-generation  antihistamines  have  been  shown  to  cause  significant  adverse 
events  (AEs),  particularly  sedation.  By  comparison,  second-generation  antihistamines,  such  as 
desloratadine  (DL)  lack  appreciable  CNS  effects  and  have  a  greater  affinity  for  H1 receptors,  with  a 
slower  dissociation  rate  and  a  longer  duration  of  action.  This  is  the  application  for  the 
desloratadine/pseudoephedrine  sulphate  (DL/PSE)  prolonged  release  tablet  in  the  symptomatic 
treatment of SAR when accompanied by nasal congestion in patients 12 years and over. The DL D-12 
tablet (2.5 mg DL/120 mg PSE ) comprises two layers, an immediate release layer of 2.5 mg DL and a 
sustained release layer of 120 mg PSE, designed for twice-daily dosing. DL, an active metabolite of 
loratadine (L), is a long-acting tricyclic antihistamine with selective peripheral histamine H1-receptor 
antagonistic activity that possesses peripheral antihistaminic  effects. The MAH claimed that DL has 
no sedative or other central nervous system effects at clinically recommended doses. DL is currently 
approved in over 95 countries in the symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis and chronic idiopathic 
disorders  (CIU).  PSE  is  a  widely  used  over-the-counter  oral  nasal  decongestant.  Several  different 
combinations  of  anti-histamine  drugs  in  fixed  combination  with  pseudo-ephedrine  have  been 
registered in Europe. In 2001 a marketing authorisation was granted via the centralised procedure for 
DL  5  mg  tablet In  November  2003  a  referral  on  L containing  products  (including  the  MRP  product 
containing fixed combination of L plus PSE]) has been closed, giving confirmation that those products 
have a positive risk-benefit in this indication. At effective recommended oral dosages, PSE minimally 
produces  other  sympathomimetic  effects,  such  as  pressor  activity  and  central  nervous  system 
stimulation. An antihistamine alone may not provide adequate relief to patients with nasal congestion, 
which justifies the need to combine an antihistamine with a nasal decongestant. The data presented in 
this submission demonstrate that the DL D-12 combination tablet is safe and more effective than either 
component alone in relieving the symptoms of SAR, including nasal congestion. Currently, the DL D-
12 tablet is available only in the USA, and plans are under way to seek approval in other countries as 
well. Another combined product, DL 5 mg and PSE 240 mg, designed for once-daily administration, is 
also available in the USA. The clinical program conducted to support the DL D-12 tablet application 
comprised two Phase-3 active-controlled studies, which established efficacy and safety of the DL D-
12 product.. To bridge the safety and efficacy data of the Phase-3 formulation (original) to the final 
formulation , a pivotal bioequivalence study was conducted with the two formulations. Three Phase-1 
studies  were  conducted  with  the  final  formulation  of  the  DL  D-12  tablet  to  characterize  its 
biopharmaceutical properties and establish an in vitro/in vivo correlation. The requested indication of 
DL D-12 is the symptomatic treatment of SAR when accompanied by nasal congestion in patients 12 
years and over. 
2 
Quality aspects 
Composition 
Aerinaze  is  presented  as  an  oval  bilayer  uncoated  tablet.  The  blue  immediate  release  layer 
contains 2.5 mg of desloratadine as the active substance and the white sustained release layer contains 
120 mg of pseudoephedrine sulphate as the active substance. 
Other ingredients of the immediate release layer are: maize starch, microcrystalline cellulose, 
edetate disodium, citric acid anhydrous, stearic acid, indigo carmine (E132), and aluminium lake., 
Other  ingredients  of  the  sustained  release  layer  are:  hypromellose  2208,  microcrystalline, 
cellulose, povidone and magnesium stearate. 
All  excipients  used  in  the  product  are  of  non-animal  origin  and  comply  with  their 
corresponding European Pharmacopoeia monographs.  
The tablets are packaged in clear blisters sealed with aluminium foil.  
1/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
I. Desloratadine 
The current dossier includes the scientific data on desloratadine that were submitted and approved for 
the desloratadine 5-mg film coated tablets.  
The  chemical  name  of  desloratadine  is  8-chloro-6,  11-dihydro-11-(4-piperidinylidene)-5H-
benzo-[5,6]cyclohepta[1,2,-b]pyridine.  Evidence  of  the  chemical  structure  of  desloratadine  is 
confirmed by spectra from spectroscopic data.  
It  is  a  white  to  off-white  powder,  freely  soluble  in  a  number  of  organic  solvents  and  very 
slightly soluble in water. Desloratadine has no chiral centre, but can exist in two polymorphic forms. 
The  presence  of  polymorphs  has  no  clinical  relevance,  since  both  forms  exhibit  very  similar 
physicochemical  properties  and  stability  profiles,  have  similar  dissolution  profiles  and  are 
bioequivalent.   
•  Manufacture 
Desloratadine  is  manufactured  from  loratadine  in  a  synthetic  process  that  uses  commercially 
available materials. 
All  potential  synthesis  related  impurities  and  degradation  products  have  been  adequately 
discussed  in  the  dossier.  The  levels  of  the  impurities  are  supported  by  the  results  of  toxicological 
studies and appropriate specifications have been set.  
• 
Specification 
The  specifications  and  test  methods  are  those  that  have  been  previously  approved  in  the 
centralised procedure.  
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  particle  size  (sizing 
instrumentation  ),  identification  (Ph.  Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  related  impurities  (HPLC),  polymorph 
content (spectroscopic),  residual solvents (GC), moisture (Karl-Fischer) and heavy metals (Ph. Eur).   
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  presented  for  batches  used  in  preclinical  safety,  clinical  and  stability 
studies. In all cases the results were within the proposed specifications. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  data  have  been  presented  for  samples  were  stored  for  36  months  at  4°C/60%RH, 
25°C/60%RH  and  30°C/70%RH  and  for  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH.  Samples  were  also  investigated 
under ICH light stress conditions.  
In addition, results are presented for commercial scale batches, which were stored for 24 months 
at 25°C/60%RH and for 6 months at 40°C/75%RH. All samples were packed in small containers of 
the same material as the one intended for storing the active substance.  
In  all  cases  the  results  were  in  compliance  with  the  proposed  specifications  and  justify  the 
proposed retest period.  
Pseudoephedrine sulphate 
Pseudoephedrine sulphate is a well known active substance described in a USP monograph. The 
Ph.Eur.  includes  a  monograph  for  pseudoephedrine  hydrochloride  that  has  also  been  used  as  a 
reference.  
The  chemical  name  of  pseudoephedrine  sulphate  is  (1S,2S)-(+)-2-Methylamino-1-phenyl-
propanol-(1) sulphate. It is a white to almost white crystalline powder that is very soluble in water and 
also hygroscopic.  
•  Manufacture 
Data concerning the manufacturing process, in process controls and analytical methods used in 
the synthesis of pseudoephedrine sulphate have been presented using the Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) procedure. 
2/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  potential  synthesis  related  impurities  have  been  adequately  discussed  in  the  dossier.  The 
levels  of  the  impurities  are  supported  by  the  results  of  batch  analysis  data  and  appropriate 
specifications have been set.  
• 
Specification 
The  specification  includes  the  requirements  of  the  USP  monograph  on  pseudoephedrine 
sulphate,  as  well  as  a  number  of  additional  in  house  requirements.  Some  of  those  in-house 
requirements are based on the Ph.Eur. monograph on pseudoephedrine hydrochloride.  
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identification,  (IR,  suphate), 
assay, purity (melting range, specific rotation, solution in water), heavy metals, loss on drying, residue 
on ignition, related substances (HPLC, TLC) and residual solvents (GC).  
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  presented  for  batches  manufactured  at  the  proposed 
manufacturing  site.  In  all  cases  the  results  of  batch  analysis  data  were  within  the  proposed 
specifications. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  data  presented  for  several  batches  monitored  at  30°C/70%RH.    Most  of  the  batches 
were  also  fully  monitored  for  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH.    Samples  stored  at  the  25°C/60%  RH 
optional study condition were monitored for loss on drying, only. 
The batches were tested for compliance with the proposed specifications with the exception of 
tests  for  identification,  heavy  metals,  sulphated  ash,  chloride  and  residual  solvents.  Due  to  the 
hygroscopic nature of the substance, a fast moisture uptake is observed leading to out-of- specification 
results  for  loss-on-drying.  However,  it  was  demonstrated  that  this  is  mainly  due  to  a  non-
representative  product/surface  ratio  for  the  stability  samples.  Moreover,  it  has  no  clinical  relevance 
since it neither leads to a decrease in assay results nor to an increase in degradation products.  
For all other parameters the results were in compliance with the proposed specifications and justify the 
proposed retest period 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Formulation development 
The objective of the formulation development studies was to develop a tablet suitable for twice 
daily  dosing  that  would  allow  the  immediate  release  of  desloratadine  and  a  sustained  release  of 
pseudoephedrine  sulphate.  Therefore  it  was  chosen  to  develop  a  bilayer  tablet.  The  compatibility  of 
the ingredients used in the two layers has been demonstrated. 
The tablets are packaged in PCTFE /PVC/ Alu blisters. .  
Process development 
Process  characterisation  studies  were  performed  to  demonstrate  the  robustness  and 
reproducibility of the manufacturing process.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process consists of the following steps: preparation of the immediate and the 
sustained release layers separately by a standard wet granulation process and then compression of the 
two layers into bilayer tablets.  
3/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  controlled  by  appropriate  in  process 
controls.  Data  from  production  scale  verification  stability  batches  demonstrate  that  the  process  is 
reproducible and provides a Medicinal Product that complies with the in-process and finished product 
specifications. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  specifications  for  the  finished  product  includes  tests  for  appearance,  release  rate  of  the 
active  substances  (HPLC,  UV),  identification  of  the  active  substances,  sulphate  and  preservatives 
(HPLC,  TLC),  assay  for  the  active  substances  and  preservatives,  degradation  products,  residual 
solvents,  moisture  content,  content  uniformity  (Ph.  Eur.),  hardness,  friability  and  microbial  quality 
(Ph. Eur.), All tests included in the specifications have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Batch analysis data have been presented for batches manufactured at the proposed 
manufacturing site. All batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification and test 
methodology valid at the time of batch release. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability results have been provided for batches manufactured at the proposed site and packed in 
the  proposed  blisters.  Samples  were  stored  for  18  months  at  5°C/ambient  RH,  25°C/60%RH  and 
30°C/65%RH, and for 6 months at 40°C/75%RH.  Tablets were also exposed to photostability studies 
in accordance with the ICH requirements.  
The samples were tested according to the specifications using stability indicating methods. In all 
cases  the  stability  results  presented  were  satisfactory  and  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  for  the 
commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The  quality  of  Aerinaze 
is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  that  support  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorization. There are no major deviations from the EU and ICH requirements. 
The  active  substances  are  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  specifications  and  scientific  data 
for desloratadine, the active ingredient in the immediate release layer, correspond to those previously 
approved  in  the  centralised  procedure.  Pseudoephedrine  sulphate  on  the  other  hand  is  a  well  known 
active  substance  described  in  the  USP.  The  Ph.Eur.  includes  a  monograph  for  pseudoephedrine 
hydrochloride that has also been used as a reference. The suitability of the specifications proposed for 
pseudoephedrine sulphate has been demonstrated. The excipients are commonly used in these types of 
formulations and comply with Ph. Eur. requirements. The packaging material is commonly used and 
well documented.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  has  been  adequately  described.    Proper  controls 
have been established to ensure the adhesion between the two layers of the tablet. Appropriate product 
specifications  have  been  established.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines 
conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
No non-clinical pharmacology/ pharmacokinetic/ toxicology studies were conducted with the DL/PSE 
12 hour tablet formulation. This approach, in the opinion CHMP is acceptable and justified in the way 
described  below.  A  summary  of  the  nonclinical  pharmacology/  pharmacokinetic/  toxicology  studies 
conducted with DL was submitted as part of the MAA for the conventional 5 mg tablet formulation 
(Original MAA Desloratadine EMEA/H/C/310-314 Commission decision: 15-Jan-01).  PSE has been 
used  clinically  for  many  years,  both  alone  and  in  combination  with  various  antihistamines.  Based  on 
results of both animal and human studies, PSE is considered to be one of the safest orally-administered 
nasal  decongestants  presently  available.  The  safety  and  efficacy  of  PSE  as  an  orally-active  nasal 
decongestant are evidenced by its long and widespread use in medical practice worldwide. A summary of 
4/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the nonclinical studies conducted with L/PSE was submitted as part of the MAA for the combination 
of L and PSE.  A draft ‘Guideline on the non-clinical development of fixed combinations of medicinal 
products’  has  been  prepared  by  the  EMEA  (CHMP/SWP/258498/2005).  The  rationale  for  a 
combination  therapy  and  a  fixed  combination  is  often  that  pharmacological  or  pharmacokinetic 
interactions are leading to improved efficacy or safety profiles, compared with the single components. 
The main aim with the non-clinical studies to support the clinical development of a fixed combination 
is to characterise potential additive, synergistic, potentiation or antagonistic effects of the compounds 
when  used  together  and  to  characterise  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  of  the 
combination  under  development.  When  the  fixed  combination  under  development  includes 
compounds  for  which  there  is  sufficiently  documented  human  experience  of  their  individual  and 
combined use, safety studies in animals are in general not required (CPMP/EWP/240/95). This is in 
the opinion of the CHMP the case for the DL/PSE combination, since sufficiently documented human 
experience  is  available  for  the  L/PSE  combination.  A  comparison  of  the  DL  studies  with  the 
previously submitted L studies indicate that the DL and L nonclinical safety profiles are similar. This 
is  expected  since  DL  is  an  active  metabolite  of  L.  Additional  non-clinical  studies  with  DL  were 
submitted  with  this  application  and  assessed  here  because  they  were  performed  after  the  DL  were 
granted MA.  
Pharmacology 
No preclinical pharmacology studies were conducted with the DL/PSE 12 hour tablet formulation.  
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
 DL  is  a  non-sedating,  long-acting  histamine  antagonist  with  selective  peripheral  H1-receptor 
antagonist activity. After oral administration, DL selectively blocks peripheral histamine H1-receptors 
because the substance is excluded from entry to the central nervous system. PSE is a sympathomimetic 
agent  with  mostly  α-mimetic  activity  in  comparison  with  the  β-activity.  PSE  provides  a  nasal 
decongestant  effect  after  oral  administration  due  to  its  vasoconstrictive  action.  It  has  an  indirect 
sympathomimetic effect due primarily to the release of adrenergic mediators from the post-ganglionic 
nerve endings. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
DL has demonstrated antiallergic properties from in vitro studies. These include inhibiting the release 
of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-13 from human mast cells/basophils, as 
well  as  inhibition  of  the  expression  of  the  adhesion  molecule  P-selectin  on  endothelial  cells.  The 
clinical  relevance  of  these  observations  remains  to  be  confirmed.  Oral  administration  of  PSE  at  the 
recommended  dose  can  cause  other  sympathomimetic  effects,  such  as  increased  blood  pressure, 
tachycardia or manifestations of central nervous system excitation. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Central nervous system 
DL had no behavioural effect at doses up to 300 mg/kg in mice and 12 mg/kg in rats. In mice it had no 
anticonvulsant effect up to 100 mg/kg. The lack of activity on the central nervous system is likely due 
to a lack of penetration through the blood-brain barrier.  
Cardiovascular system 
Studies  have  been  performed  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  DL  on  the  QTc  interval  and  the  risk  of 
ventricular arrhythmias. Among the various potassium channels involved in cardiac repolarisation, the 
HERG channel, mediating the IKr current is the one that is impaired in most patients with congenital 
long-QT syndrome and is blocked by some H1 antagonists. The following studies were performed with 
DL:  whole-cell  patch  clamp  studies  on  ventricular  myocytes,  electrophysiological  studies  on 
recombinant  potassium  channels,  electrophysiological  and  mechanical  studies  of  the  guinea  pig 
ventricular muscle, ECG of perfused rabbit heart in Langendorff perfusion chamber and in vivo studies 
in rat, guinea pig and monkey. These studies have revealed some inhibition of the potassium channels 
and increases in QT intervals with high concentrations of DL. At some targets, L was more potent than 
DL, but the opposite was true in other models.  In a clinical pharmacology study, in which doses up to 
nine-fold the therapeutic dose were investigated and no ECG changes were seen.  
Gastrointestinal, renal and respiratory function 
5/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
Single doses of DL (up to 12 mg/kg) do not exert effects on gastric emptying, intestinal transit time, 
renal and respiratory function. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No  new  nonclinical  pharmacokinetics  studies  on  absorption  were  performed  with  the  combination. 
A  bridge  to  the  nonclinical  pharmacokinetic,  metabolism,  and  toxicity  data  used  to  support 
development  of  the  DL/PSE 12 hour tablets  is  provided  by  the  results  from  the  SD  and  MD 
pharmacokinetic  studies  of  DL  5 mg  tablet,  DL/PSE  QD,  and  DL/PSE  BID  in  humans.    Exposure 
(Cmax  and  AUC)  to  DL,  3-OH DL,  and  PSE  after  single-dose  (SD)  and  multiple-dose  (MD) 
administration  of  DL  in  combination  with  PSE  (DL/PSE 12 hour tablet  formulations),  DL  alone,  or 
PSE  alone  to  humans  was  determined.  The  SD  studies  established  that  DL  and  3-OH DL  were 
bioequivalent  after  administration  of  DL/PSE 12 hour tablet  and  DL  as  a  bilayer  tablet  (2.5 mg)  and 
after  administration  of  the  two  DL/PSE 12 hour tablet  formulations.  In  addition,  PSE  was 
bioequivalent following administration of the original DL/PSE 12 hour tablet and a 120 mg PSE tablet 
formulation  and  after  administration  of  the  two  DL/PSE 12 hour tablet  formulations.  A  MD  study 
conducted  with  the  original  DL/PSE 12 hour tablet (BID  administration)  demonstrated  that  exposure 
to DL, 3-OH DL, and PSE reached steady-state within 14 days. In addition, exposure [AUC (0-24 hr)] 
to DL and 3-OH DL at steady-state was comparable to that reported following MD administration of a 
5 mg  tablet  of  DL.  Likewise,  exposure  to  PSE  was  not  different  than  that  reported  following 
administration  of  DL/PSE QD  and  DL/PSE BID.  A  MD  study  with 
to-be-marketed 
DL/PSE 12 hour tablet  formulation  indicated  that  exposure  to  DL,  3-OH DL,  and  PSE  reached 
steady-state  within  10 days  and  exposures  to  DL,  3-OH DL,  and  PSE  were  not  different  than  those 
observed with the original DL/PSE 12 hour tablet.  Although mean AUC values for DL and 3-OH DL 
appeared  to  be  lower  after  administration  of  the  to-be-marketed  DL/PSE 12 hour tablet,  these 
differences  are  due  to  interindividual  variability  and  are  not  expected  to  be  clinically  significant. 
Human  PK  data  demonstrate  that  following  oral  administrations  of  DL/PSE 2.5 mg/120 mg  tablet 
twice daily for 14 days in normal healthy volunteers, steady-state conditions were reached on day 10 
for DL, 3-hydroxy-desloratadine and PSE. For DL, mean Cmax and AUC0-12h of approx. 1.7 ng/ml and 
16 ng•hr/ml were observed, respectively. For PSE, mean Cmax and AUC0-12h of 459 ng/mL and 4658 
ng•hr/m were observed. In the opinion of CHMP no new non-clinical PK studies with the combination 
are needed 
the 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose studies with the combination DL/PSE formulation have not been conducted.   
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose studies with the combination DL/PSE formulation have not been conducted. Three-month 
studies  with  the  combination  of  loratadine  and  PSE  have  been  conducted  in  rats  and  monkeys  and 
were submitted in the L/PSE MAA.  A summary of the nonclinical toxicology studies conducted with 
DL  was  submitted  as  part  of  the  MAA  for  the  conventional  5 mg  tablet  formulation.  Dose-range 
finding studies in mice with DL were conducted after the submission of the marketing application for 
the  DL  5 mg/day  tablet  and  therefore  were  not  previously  presented  in  the  DL  5 mg  tablet  MAA. 
These studies have not been conducted with the DL/PSE formulation and the results of these studies 
do not change the safety profile of any of the DL products. 
Table. Repeated dose toxicity studies with DL not previously submitted.  
Species 
mice 
C57BL/6Ntac mice 
Duration of Treatment 
Three-Month (Diet) Dose-Range Finding Study of DL  
Four Week Oral (Gavage) Dose Range-Finding and TK Study of DL 
Report No. 
(SN 97253) 
(SN 99261) 
Three-Month (Diet) Dose-Range Finding Study of DL in Mice (SN 97253) 
DL  was  administered  orally  to  6-week-old  mice  at  daily  doses  of  24,  48,  96  or  192 mg/kg  for  three 
months.  Doses of 24 and 48 mg/kg were well tolerated by male and female mice.  Test article-related 
mortality was observed in two males given 192 mg/kg.  Contributory causes of death or moribundity 
could not be determined based on necropsy and histopathologic findings.  Mortality was attributed to 
6/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DL  based  on  clinical  observations  of  abnormal  stool,  mild  to  moderate  dehydration,  a  hunched 
appearance  possibly  associated  with  impaired  gastrointestinal  clearance,  and/or  clinical  signs  of 
moribundity  (hypoactivity,  tremors,  urogenital  staining,  no  feces  and  coolness  to  touch).    Abnormal 
stool also was seen in all surviving mice in the 48, 96 and 192 mg/kg dose groups. This observation 
correlated with distention of the large intestine at necropsy in the 96 and 192 mg/kg dose groups and 
may reflect a prolonged transit time through the large intestine related to the anticholinergic activity of 
high  doses  of  DL.  Mean  body  weights  (MBW)  of  192 mg/kg-dosed  males  and  females  were 
moderately lower (23.74% and 15.00%, respectively) than control values at study termination due to a 
MBW  loss  (males)  or  a  reduction  in  MBW  gain  (females)  during  the  overall  dosing  period.    MBW 
gain  values  also  were  mildly  lower  in  males  given  48  or  96 mg/kg.    No  test  article-related 
ophthalmoscopic findings were observed. Females administered 96 or 192 mg/kg exhibited minimally 
lower hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit.  Mice given 96 or 192 mg/kg had minimally lower 
mean  corpuscular  volume  and/or  mean  corpuscular  hemoglobin  without  concurrently  lower  mean 
corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. Serum glucose concentration was mildly to moderately lower 
at  192 mg/kg.  Females  administered  192 mg/kg  also  had  minimally  higher  serum  phosphorus 
concentration.  Alanine  aminotransferase,  aspartate  aminotransferase  and  alkaline  phosphatase 
activities were minimally to moderately higher at 96 and 192 mg/kg.  Serum cholesterol concentration 
was  minimally  to  mildly  lower  in  one  female  administered  96 mg/kg  and  in  most  mice  receiving 
192 mg/kg.    Additionally,  the  incidence  of  serum  triglyceride  concentrations  that  were  below 
detectable  limits  was  higher  at  96  (females  only)  and  192 mg/kg.  The  results  of  liver  biochemistry 
analyses indicated that administration of 24, 48, 96 and 192 mg/kg caused induction of CYP2B1/2 in 
males and females and of CYP1A2 in males only.  Furthermore, inhibition of activity of CYP2B1/2 
was  seen  in  males  and  females  primarily  at  the  higher  doses  of  96  and  192 mg/kg.    An  increase  in 
CYP4A protein was detected in males at 96 and 192 mg/kg. The primary DL-related histopathologic 
finding  in  the  48,  96  and  192 mg/kg  dose  groups  was  cellular  vacuolation  (both  epithelial  and 
mesenchymal cells in several organs) consistent with phospholipidosis.  The incidence and severity of 
vacuolation  were  dose-related.    Findings  associated  with  vacuolation  included  cellular  swelling, 
degeneration,  necrosis,  hypertrophy  and  hyperplasia,  which  were  organ-  and  cell-specific.    Necrosis 
was  associated  with  vacuolation  in  the  kidney,  epididymides,  heart,  and  skeletal  muscle.    Increased 
cellular  debris  in  the  epididymides  of  192 mg/kg-dosed  males  may  have  been  sloughed  epididymal 
epithelial  cells.  Analysis  of  testicular  spermatid  and  epididymal  sperm  counts  in  mice  at  96 mg/kg 
revealed no DL-related effects.  Dose-dependent centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy was present 
in males at 48 and 96 mg/kg and in both sexes at 192 mg/kg.  This finding correlated with higher mean 
absolute  and  relative  liver  weights  at  96  and  192 mg/kg.  Histo-pathologic  observations  of  uterine 
atrophy  in  the  192 mg/kg  dose  group  correlated  with  necropsy  findings  of  small  uteri.  In  addition, 
mean  absolute  and  relative  uterus  weights  were  lower  at  96  and  192 mg/kg.  Thymic  lymphoid 
depletion  correlated  with  lower  mean  absolute  and  relative  thymus  weights  at  192 mg/kg.  Based  on 
clinical observations of abnormal stool, higher blood urea nitrogen concentrations, and histopathologic 
findings seen at 48 mg/kg, the no-effect dose was 24 mg/kg under the conditions of this study.  Based 
on mortality and decreases in MBW of 15% or greater, a dose of 192 mg/kg exceeded the maximum 
tolerated dose. 
Four  Week  Oral  (Gavage)  Dose  Range-Finding  and  TK  Study  of  DL  in  C57BL/6Ntac  Mice  (SN 
99261) 
The  potential  toxicity  of  DL  was  assessed  in  C57BL/6NTac  mice  administered  single  daily  oral 
(gavage) doses of 24, 48, 96, and 192 mg/kg for up to one month. The results of this study indicate 
that  a  no-effect  level  (NEL)  in  C57BL/6NTac  mice  was  unable  to  be  determined  based  on  the  test 
article-related  changes  in  MBW  gain,  and  leukocyte  and  lymphocyte  counts  at  all  dose  levels.  All 
mice  in  the  192 mg/kg  were  sacrificed  on  Day 8  due  to  excessive  mortality.    Clinical  observations 
included  few  faeces,  hunched  appearance,  hypoactivity,  squinted  eyes,  cold  to  touch,  labored 
respiration, and rough hair coat.  Males also exhibited decreases in MBW, accompanied by transient 
decreases  in  mean  food  consumption  in  the  Day  1-8  interval.    This  dose  clearly  exceeds  the  MTD. 
Test article-related clinical observations in surviving animals included few feces, hunched appearance, 
and  hypoactivity.    In  addition,  a  dose-related  decrease  in  MBW  gain  was  observed  in  males  and 
females in all dose groups relative to controls at the conclusion of the study.  Body weight changes did 
not always correlate with decreases in mean food consumption in the affected groups. Alterations in 
the  clinical  chemistry  data  that  are  likely  effects  from  DL  administration  included  higher  alanine 
7/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
aminotransferase (ALT) values in 96 mg/kg/day males at Week 5.  Findings in the clinical pathology 
data from males and females in the 192 mg/kg group at Week 2 that are considered indirect effects of 
dosing  included  lower  values  for  total  leukocyte  and  lymphocyte  counts  in  one  male,  erythrocyte 
count (RBC), hemoglobin (HGB), and hematocrit (HCT) values in the females, relative and absolute 
reticulocyte  counts  (%RETIC  and  A  RETIC  values),  total  protein,  albumin,  and  albumin/globulin 
(A/G)  ratio  values,  and  higher  glucose  and  chloride  concentrations  in  males  and  females.    Total 
leukocyte and lymphocyte counts were also lower in most 24 and 96 mg/kg males at Week 5 relative 
to  concurrent  control  males.    DL-related  necropsy  findings  were  restricted  to  small  thymic  size  in  a 
single  male  mouse  in  the  192 mg/kg  dose  group.  The  procedures  used  to  collect  blood  samples  for 
toxicokinetic  analyses  were  not  in  full  compliance  with  GLP  Regulations.    Therefore,  these  data 
cannot  be  used  in  support  of  this  study.  The  lowest  dose  employed  in  the  current  study  (24 mg/kg) 
exceeds  ICH  Guidelines  for  establishing  a  maximum  tolerated  dose  (10%  decrease  in  body  weight 
gain).  Therefore,  a  maximum  dose  less  than  24 mg/kg  is  indicated  if  a  future  6-month  p53 
carcinogenicity study were to be conducted. The rationale for using C57BL/6NTac mice in this study 
was related to the project of conducting a 6 months carcinogenicity study in p53-deficient mice. No 
NOAEL could be established in this study. The applicant did not elaborate on the great sensitivity of 
this mouse strain to DL. Due to lack of GLP compliance TK data are missing. However, in the scope 
of this application, the CHMP considered that this preliminary study is of minor importance.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  studies  with  the  combination  DL/PSE  formulation  have  not  been  conducted.  A 
carcinogenicity  study  in  mice  of  DL  has  been  conducted  after  the  submission  of  the  marketing 
application  for  the  DL  5 mg/day  tablet  and  therefore  was  not  previously  presented  in  the  DL  5 mg 
tablet MAA. This study has not been conducted with the DL/PSE formulation and the results of this 
study do not change the safety profile of any of the DL products. 
24-Month Oral (Diet) Carcinogenicity Study of DL in Mice (SN 97255) 
The carcinogenic potential of DL was assessed in male and female mice administered single daily oral 
doses by dietary admixture.  Males received doses of 4 or 16 mg/kg for at least 101 weeks or 48 mg/kg 
for at least 56 weeks.  Females received doses of 10 or 32 mg/kg for at least 101 weeks or 96 mg/kg 
for  at  least  61 weeks.    Because  of  excessive  mortality  dosing  was  stopped  for  high-dose  males  and 
females  (48  and  96 mg/kg  dose  groups,  respectively)  but  surviving  mice  continued  on  study  (on 
control feed) after the cessation of drug administration and were sacrificed during Week 100.  Mice in 
the remaining groups (0, 4, 10, 16 and 32 mg/kg) were sacrificed during Week 101/102.  Additional 
mice in each DL-dosed group were evaluated only for plasma exposure during Weeks 4 and 24. Mice 
were  systemically  exposed  to  DL  following  dietary  administration.  Plasma  DL  conc.  increased  in  a 
dose-related fashion.  3-hydroxy DL concentrations were not quantifiable. No increase in tumors was 
seen  in  any  DL-dosed  group  compared  to  controls.  Mortality  associated  with  impaction,  distention, 
dilatation  and/or  altered  content  of  the  large  intestine  was  observed  in  males  administered  16  or 
48 mg/kg and in females dosed with 32 or 96 mg/kg.  At the highest dose for each sex, a stress-related 
splenic lymphoid atrophy was associated with the intestinal findings.  Increased mortality relative to 
controls was seen in male mice dosed with 16 or 48 mg/kg and in female mice dosed with 96 mg/kg 
DL.    The  increase  in  mortality  was  not  related  to  carcinogenicity  but  to  the  pharmacologic 
(anticholinergic)  effects  of  high  doses  of  the  drug.   The  MTD  was  exceeded  at  the  highest  dose  for 
each  sex  based  on  the  dose-limiting,  pharmacologically  mediated  mortality  observed.  Clinical 
observations indicative of an anticholinergic effect on the GI tract were seen in a dose-related manner 
in  all  test  article-dosed  groups  but  occurred  earlier  in  males  administered  48 mg/kg  and  in  females 
dosed with 96 mg/kg. MBW gain of 48 mg/kg-dosed males was 14% and 9% lower than for controls 
after  six months  and  one year,  respectively.    This  was  associated  with  the  poor  condition  and  early 
sacrifice of many males in this dose group.  After dosing with DL was terminated, body weights of the 
48 mg/kg-dosed  males  showed  recovery.    MBW  gain  of  females  in  all  DL  dose  groups  was  greater 
than for controls at six months, one year and termination of dosing and may have been related to the 
anticholinergic effects of abdominal distension with retention of feces.  Food consumption for males 
administered 48 mg/kg and females dosed with 96 mg/kg was lower during most intervals, even after 
dosing  was  terminated  after  approximately  one  year.  In  addition  to  the  intestinal  findings  noted  in 
decedents,  distention  of  the  large  intestine  was  seen  in  two  females  in  the  32 mg/kg  dose  group  at 
terminal necropsy and correlated with histopathologic observations of luminal dilatation. The toxicity 
8/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
observed in this study was related to the anticholinergic actions of DL, a known pharmacologic effect 
of histamine H1 antagonists. Anticholinergic effects were also seen in previous studies of DL at high 
doses in mice, rats and monkeys1, 2,. Anticholinergic effects are more common with first-generation H1 
antagonists  but  can  also  occur  with  second-generation  H1  antagonists  at  high  doses.    These  effects 
were  reversible  as  demonstrated  by  the  decreased  incidence  of  anticholinergic  signs  in  48 mg/kg-
dosed  males  and  96 mg/kg-dosed  females  after  cessation  of  drug  treatment  after  approximately  one 
year. No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in this two-year dietary study in mice despite clear 
evidence  that  the  MTD  was  exceeded  in  high-dose  animals.  No  increase  of  tumor  incidence  was 
observed. In the opinion of the CHMP if the fixed combination contains compounds assessed as non-
carcinogenic,  carcinogenicity  studies  with  the  combination  are  not  needed.  In  study  SN 97255, 
because  of  excessive  mortality,  dosing  was  stopped  after  56  or  61  weeks  in  the  high  dose  group  of 
both  sexes.  Mortality  was  associated  with  intestinal  abnormalities  (impaction,  distension,  dilation  of 
large bowel). Body weight gain (BWG) was decreased in the male high dose groups, but increased in 
females in all dose groups. It was concluded that the decrease in BWG in males was due to increased 
mortality, while the increase in BWG in females may have been related to the anticholinergic effect of 
DL.  However,  both  increased  mortality  and  clinical  observations  of  indicative  of  an  anticholinergic 
effect on the GI tract are observed in both sexes. The applicant provided the explanation related to the 
observed sex differences in BWG. There appear to be definitive path of physiology to define the sex 
differences  in  BWG.  However,  taking  into  account  the  high  safety  margins:  85-fold,  321-fold  and 
1008-fold  (mouse  to  human  exposure  multiples,  female),  and  493-fold  (mouse  to  human  exposure 
multiples, male), and the species (mouse) specificity of these findings, there is little risk to humans.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
• 
No  new  data  were  submitted  with  the  combination.  Teratology  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits  were 
conducted with combination of L and PSE and were submitted in the Loratadine/PSE MAA (Repetabs 
MAA  submitted  to  Belgium  HA  approved  Oct/04/1990  Registration  number  304  S  117  F3).    A 
summary of the nonclinical toxicology studies conducted with DL was submitted as part of the MAA 
for  the  conventional  5 mg  tablet  formulation  (Original  MAA  DL  EMEA/H/C/310-314  Commission 
decision: 15-Jan-01). 
Local tolerance  
• 
No data with the combination were submitted. DL/PSE is administered orally. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An ERA was conducted for DL according to the draft Guideline on the ERA of Medicinal Products for 
Human Use CPMP/SWP/4447/00, 20 January 2005. For DL, based on the calculations presented by 
the applicant, the PEN/PNEC ratios for water, soil, and sediment were less then one. Because of the 
low volatility, air was not expected route of environmental exposure. Therefore DL is not expected to 
have adverse events on environment. PSE is over-the-counter or generic medicinal ingredients within 
EU  member  countries.  If  a  medicinal  product  has  been  on  the  marker  for  more  then  8  years,  no 
additional data are required beyond bioequivalence as per Directive 65/65/EC Article 10. There fore 
no further evaluation of PSE was provided with ERA. DL/PSE is thus considered unlikely to represent 
a risk for the environment following its prescribed usage in patients. 
4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
DL is currently approved in over 95 countries in the symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis 
and chronic idiopathic disorders (CIU). PSE is a widely used over-the-counter oral nasal decongestant. 
An antihistamine alone may not provide adequate relief to patients with nasal congestion, which could 
justify the need to combine an antihistamine with a nasal decongestant. DL is extensively metabolized 
to  3-hydroxydesloratadine  (3-OH DL),  an  active  metabolite,  which  is  subsequently  glucuronidated. 
The enzyme(s) responsible for the formation of 3-OH DL have not been identified. Data from clinical 
1SN97253 [S-31104] 3m (diet) dose-range finding study of DL in mice. Lafayette (NJ):  Schering-Plough Res. Inst.; 
2000. 
2SN97016 [P-6973] 3m oral (gavage) toxicity study of DL in rats. Columbus (OH):  Battelle; 1999. 
9/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
trials with DL indicate that a  subset of the general  population has a decreased ability to form 3-OH 
DL,  and  are  poor  metabolizers  of  DL.  No  safety  issues  have  been  identified  with  DL  in  poor 
metabolizers.  PSE  is  a  widely  used  over-the-counter  oral  nasal  decongestant.  At  effective 
recommended oral dosages, PSE minimally produces other sympathomimetic effects, such as pressor 
activity and CNS stimulation. Use of an orally administered vasoconstrictor for shrinkage of congested 
nasal  mucosa  has  several  advantages:  a)  It  produces  a  gradual  but  sustained  decongestant  effect, 
causing  little,  if  any,  "rebound"  congestion;  b)  it  facilitates  shrinkage  of  swollen  mucosa  in  upper 
respiratory areas that are relatively inaccessible to topically applied sprays or drops; and c) it relieves 
nasal  obstruction  without  the  additional  irritation  that  may  result  from  local  medication.    Following 
single-dose  oral  administration  of  PSE  as  tablets  or  oral  solution  (30-mg  or  60-mg  doses),  nasal 
decongestion occurs within 30 minutes and persists for 4 to 6 hours.  Nasal decongestion may persist 
for 8 hours following oral administration of 60 mg of PSE and up to 12 hours following 120 mg of 
PSE  in  extended  release  formulations.  PSE  alone  is  incompletely  metabolized  (less  than  1%)  in  the 
liver  by  N-demethylation to  an  inactive  metabolite.    The  drug  and  its  metabolite  are  excreted  in  the 
urine.  About 55% to 96% of an administered dose of PSE is excreted unchanged in the urine.  
The DL D-12 tablet is a bilayer tablet that provides immediate-release of 2.5 mg of DL ) and 
sustained  release  of  120 mg  of  pseudoephedrine  sulphate  (PSE).  This  formulation  is  designed  for 
twice-daily administration in subjects 12 years and over.   
The  clinical  program  conducted  to  support  the  DL  D-12  tablet  application  comprised  two 
Phase-3 active-controlled studies, which established efficacy and safety of the DL D-12 product., To 
bridge  the  safety  and  efficacy  data  of  the  Phase-3  formulation  (original)  to  the  to  be  marketed 
formulation, a pivotal bioequivalence study was conducted with the two formulations. Three Phase-1 
studies  were  conducted  with  the  final  formulation  of  the  DL  D-12  tablet  to  characterize  its 
biopharmaceutical properties and establish an in vitro/in vivo correlation. 
Table. Summary of Studies Conducted With the two Formulations of DL D-12 Tablets 
Protocol 
No. 
P00355 
P00362 
Study Description 
Study Design  
Study Population 
Phase-3 Studies 
Efficacy and safety of 
DL+PSE, BID, versus its 
components in the treatment 
of subjects with SAR 
Efficacy and safety of 
DL+PSE, BID, versus its 
components in the treatment 
of subjects with SAR 
Multiple dose 
Double blind 
Randomized 
Parallel group  
Multiple dose 
Double blind  
Randomized 
Parallel group 
598 patients with SAR 
Age 12-76 yr 
224 M, 374 F 
650 patients with SAR 
Age 12-78 yr 
221 M, 429 F 
10/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
Protocol 
No. 
P02040 
P02041 
P02042 
P02043 
Study Description 
Study Design  
Study Population 
Bioequivalence of the 
original and new 
formulations of DL D-12  
Multiple-dose and steady-
state pharmacokinetics of DL 
D-12 
Food effect on the oral 
bioavailability of  
DL D-12 
Bioavailability of PSE from 
controlled-release (12-hour) 
formulations 
Phase-1 Studies 
Single dose 
Open label 
Randomized 
2-way crossover, replicate design 
Multiple dose  
Open label 
Single dose 
Open label  
Randomized 
2-way crossover  
Single dose 
Open label 
Randomized 
4-way crossover 
20 healthy subjects 
Age 23-45 yr 
19M, 1F 
18 healthy volunteers 
Age 22 to 45 yr 
9M, 9F 
20 healthy subjects 
Age 18-44 yr 
10M, 10F 
20 healthy subjects 
Age 27-44 yr 
10M, 10F 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Study P02040 (pivotal BE-Study): 
The  clinical  program  conducted  to  support  the  DL D-12  tablet  application  comprised  two  Phase-3 
active-controlled  studies,  which  established  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  DL D-12  product.  The  initial 
formula  was  used  in  these  clinical  trials  to  support  the  indications  in  this  application.  Subsequently, 
the  formulation  of  the  DL D-12  tablet  was  modified  to  improve  on  the  stability  of  this  product.  To 
bridge the safety and efficacy data of the Phase-3 formulation to the improved formulation, a pivotal 
bioequivalence study was conducted with the two formulations.  
11/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study-Design: 
A total of 20 healthy subjects were enrolled and all 20 subjects completed this open label, randomized, 
two-sequence, four-period crossover study. The replicate cross-over design was recommended for the 
evaluation  of  bioequivalence  of  modified-release  dosage  forms.  This  design  minimizes  the  residual 
variation  due  to  subject  differences  and  possible  period  effects,  and  allows  comparison  of  within-
subject variances for the test and reference products. A minimum of a ten-day washout was included 
to  eliminate  carry-over  effects.  Subjects  were  assigned  to  receive  the  following  treatments  twice  in 
four separate periods: treatment A: DL D-12 tablet (Phase 3 formulation), treatment B: DL D-12 tablet 
(to be marketed formulation). Each subject was randomized to receive Treatment A and Treatment B 
in  one  of  two  sequences:  ABAB  or  BABA.  Blood  samples  were  collected  for  the  determination  of 
pharmacokinetic parameters AUC (tf), AUC (I), Cmax, Tmax, and t (½) for DL, 3-OH DL, and PSE. 
The  log-transformed  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were  statistically  analyzed  using  a  linear  mixed  effect 
model.  The  intrasubject  variability  for  AUC  and  Cmax  from  DL  D-12  in  studies  Study P00440  and 
Study  P00446  was  less  than  16%.  Assuming  a  larger  intrasubject  variability  of  18%-24%  for  this 
single-dose, replicate crossover study it was estimated that with 20 subjects there should be at least an 
80% chance of meeting the 80%-125% confidence interval with a 5% difference in formulations. 
Data Sets Analyzed:  
The safety population (n=20) included all subjects who were enrolled in the study and who received at 
least one dose of the study medication. The pharmacokinetic population (n=20) included all subjects 
who  received  treatment.  However,  only  subjects  with  evaluable  data  in  all  treatment  periods  were 
included in the analysis of bioequivalence (n=16). 
Pharmacokinetic Assessments for DL and 3-0H DL: 
Subject  Nos.  4,  5,  8,  9,  and  19  had  measurable  predose  DL  concentrations.  These  predose  DL 
concentrations  were  observed  in  the  later  phases  of  this  study  and  thus,  were  most  likely  due  to  a 
carryover effect caused by an incomplete washout. In the second through fourth periods the predose 
DL concentration for Subject Nos. 4, 5, 9, and 19 represented 9-18% of Cmax values and according to 
the FDA guidance these subjects were dropped from bioequivalence evaluations for all three analytes. 
Inclusion of these subjects in bioequivalence evaluations did not change the conclusion of the study. 
Following oral administration, DL was gradually absorbed; mean Tmax was approximately 5 hours for 
both formulations. Mean exposure to DL (AUC [I]) was highly variable; mean AUC (I) CV.s ranged 
from 110 to 114%. DL was eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of ~27 hours. The bioequivalence 
criteria  were  met  for  DL  D-12  formulations.  The  90%  CI  for  DL  Cmax  and  AUC  (I)  values 
(Treatment B/A) were 94.2-106% and 92.7-104% respectively. The within subject variability for log-
transformed AUC (tf) and AUC (I) were larger for the old formulation (Treatment A) with ratios of 
the  CV  equal  to  2.13  (=0.269/0.126)  and  1.58  (=0.164/0.104),  respectively.  However,  the  variation 
was  not  large  enough  to  impact  the  bioequivalence  of  each  of  the  two  treatments.  Following  oral 
administration, DL was extensively metabolized to 3-OH DL (an active metabolite). DL conversion to 
3-OH DL exhibits a phenotypic polymorphism; approximately 7% of the population are classified as 
slow metabolizers of DL. A slow metabolizer of DL is defined as any subject with a 3-OH DL to DL 
AUC ratio of <10%, or has DL half-life >50 hours. Based on these criteria Subject Nos. 9 and 19 were 
identified as slow metabolizers. Subject No. 4 behaved like a slow metabolizer in 1 out of 4 periods 
(Treatment B, Period 3). This subject was not considered to be a slow metabolizer since his metabolite 
to  parent  exposure  ratios  were  well  above  10%  in  the  other  three  treatment  periods.  Two  other 
subjects, Subject No. 2 and Subject No. 5, had parent to metabolite exposure ratios that were similar to 
those  of  slow  metabolizers  in  one  out  of  4  periods.  Subject  No.  2  had  an  exposure  ratio  of  16%  in 
Period 1 (Treatment A) and Subject No. 5 had an exposure ratio of 10% in Period 2 (Treatment A). 
These  exposure  ratios  were  also  substantially  lower  than  those  observed  in  other  periods  for  these 
subjects. Additionally, plasma 3-OH DL concentrations for Subject No. 15 were below the LLOQ for 
Treatment A, Period 1 and the half-life was indeterminable for DL. This was not observed in any other 
treatment  periods  for  this  subject.  The  reason  for  the  variability  observed  with  these  subjects  is 
unknown;  however,  including  these  subjects  in  the  assessment  of  bioequivalence  did  not  impact  the 
conclusions. Mean exposure to 3-OH DL (AUC [I]) was moderately variable following administration 
of either DL D-12 formulation. Mean AUC (I) CVs ranged from 33 to 34%. 3-OH DL was eliminated 
with  a  mean  half-life  (t½)  of  ~31  hours.  Relative  to  the  DL  D-12  Phase  3  formulation,  DL  D-12 
improved formulation met 80-125% bioequivalence criteria for 3-OH DL. The 90% CI for 3-OH DL 
12/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
Cmax and AUC (I) values (Treatment B/A) were 94.6-107% and 93.3-105%, respectively. The within 
subject  treatment  variability  for  the  log  transformed  Cmax  was  larger  for  the  new  formulation 
(Treatment B) with ratio of the CV equal to 1.42 (=0.161/0.113). 
Pharmacokinetic Assessments for PSE: 
The mean exposure to PSE exhibited low intersubject variability; mean CV for Cmax and AUC values 
ranged from 13 to 25%. PSE was eliminated with a mean t½ of ~7-8 hours. Relative to the DL D-12 
Phase  3  formulation,  DL  D-12  improved  formulation  met  80-125%  bioequivalence  criteria  for  PSE. 
The  90%  CI  for  PSE  Cmax  and  AUC  (I)  values  (Treatment  B/A)  were  97.6-109%  and  99.3-115% 
respectively.  The  within  subject  treatment  variability  for  the  log-transformed  AUC(tf)  and  AUC(I) 
values  were  larger  for  the  old  formulation  (Treatment  A)  with  ratios  of  the  CV  equal  to  1.61 
(=0.175/0.109) and 1.59 (=0.178/0.112), respectively. However, the variation was not large enough to 
impact the bioequivalence of each of the two treatments. 
Table. Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters calculated with all subjects: 
Conclusions: 
Both treatments were safe and well tolerated. The DL D-12 improved formulation was bioequivalent 
to  the  DL  D-12  Phase  3  formulation  based  on  the  bioequivalence  assessment  for  PSE,  DL  and  its 
major  metabolite  3-OH  DL.  Bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  for  both,  DL  and  PSE, 
nevertheless  the  study  has  a  number  of  deficiencies:  the  washout  period  was  too  short,  and  four 
subjects  were  removed  from  bioequivalence  evaluations.  On  the  other  hand  calculation  of 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  with  all  subjects  still  showed  bioequivalence.  In  this  pivotal  study  a 
number  of  interindividual  variabilities  have  been  found.  A  detailed  analysis  of  these  outliers  was 
performed, submitted and positively evaluated. 
Study P02042: 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  pharmacokinetics  of  DL,  3-OH DL,  and  PSE 
following  single-dose  administration  of  DL  D-12  under  fed  and  fasted  conditions  in  healthy  adult 
subjects. Twenty subjects between the ages of 18 and 44 years were enrolled in this single-dose, open-
label,  2-way  crossover  study,  19  completed.    Each  subject  was  randomized  to  receive  the  following 
two  treatments  in  a  computer-generated  sequence:  One  DL  D-12  tablet  was  administered  after  a 
10-hour  fast  (Treatment  A),  and  one  DL  D-12  tablet  was  administered  immediately  following  a 
13/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
standardized high-fat, high-calorie breakfast (Treatment B). A washout period of 12 days separated the 
two treatment periods. Blood samples were collected for determination of the plasma pharmacokinetic 
profile of DL, 3-OH DL, and PSE for up to 120 hours.  Plasma samples were assayed for DL, 3-OH 
DL,  and  PSE.  DL  pharmacokinetic  parameters  exhibited  moderate  inter-subject  variability  with  CV 
values for Cmax and AUC (I) ranging from 41-49%. The corresponding values for 3-OH DL and PSE 
were 26-36% and 21-28%, respectively. Preliminary statistical analysis was performed to examine the 
extreme pharmacokinetic values and the impact of outliers on the overall results. Subject No. 17 met 
the outlier criterion for DL Tmax only, but not for Cmax or AUC. This subject was not an outlier for 
Cmax and AUC of 3-OH DL and PSE. Therefore, no additional analyses were done and the subject 
was included in all statistical displays. A method has been established to separate slow metabolizers 
from normal metabolizers based on the AUC ratio of 3-OH DL to that of DL. The ratio of 10% is used 
as the criterion to identify slow metabolizers. None of the 20 subjects were slow metabolizers of 3-OH 
DL,  based  on  their  AUC  ratio  values.  Statistical  comparisons  of  Cmax  and  AUC  (I)  values  for  fed 
versus  fasted  conditions  were  performed  for  DL,  3-OH  DL,  and  PSE.  The  powers  to  detect  a  20% 
difference in treatment means at an alpha-level of 0.05 (two-tailed) for the log-transformed DL, 3-OH 
DL, and PSE Cmax and AUC(I) values were 96 and 99, 99 and 100, and 100 and 100%, respectively. 
The 90% confidence intervals for the ratio of the log-transformed Cmax and AUC for DL, 3-OH DL, 
and PSE were all within the bioequivalence interval of 80% to 125%. Therefore, food had no effect on 
the bioavailability of DL, 3-OH DL, and PSE from the DL D-12 tablet. Study P02042 conducted with 
the  improved  formulation  also  showed  no  effect  of  food  on  the  oral  bioavailability  of  the  DL  D-12 
tablet. 
Study P02041: 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  steady-state  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  DL,  3-OH 
DL,  and  PSE  following  twice-daily  administration  of  the  DL D-12  tablet  (formula  3775)  for  14 
consecutive days. Eighteen healthy subjects between the ages of 22 and 45 years were enrolled in this 
multiple-dose,  open-label  study.  Each  subject  received  one  DL D-12  tablet  twice  daily  for  14  days. 
Blood samples were collected prior to dosing on Day 1 and prior to both morning and evening dosing 
on Days 10, 11, 12, and 13, and then on Day 14 for up to 24 hours after the morning dosing. Plasma 
concentrations  of  DL,  3-OH  DL,  and  PSE  were  determined  using  validated  liquid  chromatography 
with tandem mass spectrometric methods. There was a statistically significant difference (P<0.001) in 
the mean Cmin (prior to the AM dose, 0 hour) values of DL and 3-OH DL over the period of Days 10 
to  14.  However,  there  was  no  consistent  trend  in  the  fluctuations  of  the  individual  or  mean  trough 
plasma concentrations. The 95% confidence intervals of the ratios fell within the interval 0.8 to 1.25, 
indicating  that  the  differences  between  the  Cmin  concentrations  were  not  clinically  relevant. 
Therefore,  steady-state  plasma  DL  and  3-OH  DL  concentrations  were  attained  by  Day 10.  For  PSE, 
there  was  no  statistically significant  difference  (P=0.1)  or  trend  in  the  mean  Cmin  (prior  to  the  AM 
dose, 0 hour) values over the period of Days 10 to 14, and the 95% confidence interval of the ratios 
fell  within  the  interval  0.8  to  1.25.    Steady-state  conditions  for  plasma  PSE  concentrations  were 
attained by Day 10 of multiple-dose administration of the DL D-12 tablet. For the Period 0-12 hour, 
the  mean  Cmax  and  AUC  (0-12  hr)  values  of  DL  were  approximately  1.7 ng/mL  and  16  ng·hr/mL, 
respectively. The  mean  Tmax  was  approximately  3.9  hours.  The  mean  Cmax  and  AUC  (0-12 hr)  of 
PSE were 459 ng/mL and 4658 ng·hr/mL, respectively. The mean Tmax was approximately 4.6 hours. 
Comparable  results  were  obtained  for  the  Period  12-24  hour.  In  conclusion,  steady-state  conditions 
were attained by Day 10 for DL, 3-OH DL, and PSE following multiple dosing of the DL D-12 tablet. 
According  to  the  study  above  with  the  final  formulation  steady-state  conditions  were  reached  on 
Day 10. This difference has no clinical relevance. 
Study P02043: 
The improved formulation (3775) of the DL D-12 tablet used in clinical trials described above and the 
commercial  use  formulation  were  manufactured  by  different  companies.  In  accordance  with  the 
EMEA “Guidance on the investigation of bioavailability and bioequivalence”, the bioequivalence of 
the  DL D-12  tablets  manufactured  at  the  two  sites  is  supported  by  an  in  vitro/in  vivo  correlation 
(IVIVC)  analysis.  In  cases  where  the  bioavailability  of  the  product  undergoing  change  has  been 
investigated  and  an  acceptable  correlation  between  in  vivo  performance  and  in  vitro  dissolution  has 
been  established,  the  requirements  for  in  vivo  demonstration  of bioequivalence  can  be  waived  if  the 
dissolution rate in vitro of the new product is similar to that of the already approved medicinal product 
14/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
under the same test conditions as used to establish the correlation. The objectives of this single-dose 
study  were  to  evaluate  the  bioequivalence  of  PSE  from  DL/PSE  formulations  with  fast  and  slow 
dissolution  rates  relative  to  each  of  the  standard  formulations,  as  well  as  the  bioequivalence  of  PSE 
from the standard formulations. These data were used to support an IVIVC analysis to establish an in 
vitro/in vivo correlation (IVIVC) between the in vivo absorption rate (percent of dose absorbed) and 
the  in  vitro  release  rate  (percent  of  dose  released)  for  four  PSE  extended  release  formulations.  This 
study evaluated the pharmacokinetics of PSE from DL/PSE formulations with modified cores, which 
demonstrated very fast, fast, and slow dissolution rates relative to the DL D-12 standard formulation. 
Twenty subjects between the ages of 27 and 44 years (mean = 37.4 years) were enrolled in this single-
dose,  open-label,  4-way  crossover  study.  Two  formulations  of  the  DL  D-12  (standard  and  slow 
batches)  and  two  formulations  of  the  DL  5/120  (standard  and  fast  batches)  were  administered  in  a 
random order to each of the 20 subjects following an overnight fast.  The DL 5/120 standard batch had 
a  modified  core  with  a  fast  dissolution  rate  compared  with  the  DL  D-12  standard  formulation.  A 
washout period of 7 days was observed between each treatment. Blood samples for determination of 
PSE  were  collected  for  up  to  48  hours  after  dosing.  Plasma  samples  were  assayed  for  PSE 
concentration using a validated LC-MS/MS method. 
The  DL  D-12  standard  batch  was  bioequivalent  to  the  DL  5/120  standard  batch  with  respect  to  the 
PSE component.  The DL D-12 slow batch, but not the DL 5/120 fast batch, was bioequivalent to the 
DL D-12 standard batch with respect to the PSE component. 
Table. Relative Bioavailability and 90% Confidence Intervals for the Log-Transformed Cmax, AUC 
Values of PSE Following Single-Dose Oral Administration of the DL D-12 or DL 5/120 Formulations 
(n=20) 
Protocol No. P02043 
Comparison 
DL 5/120 Std/DL D-12 Std 
DL D-12 Slow/DL D-12 Std 
DL 5/120 Fast/DL D-12 Std 
Std:  standard. 
Parameter 
AUC(tf) 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(tf) 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
AUC(tf) 
AUC(I) 
Cmax 
Ratio (%) 
104.2 
104.7 
111.8 
94.9 
95.1 
93.9 
100.3 
100.9 
126.1 
90% CI 
99-110 
99-110 
107-117 
90-100 
90-100 
90-98 
95-106 
96-106 
120-132 
In Vitro/In Vivo Correlation 
An in vitro/in vivo correlation was developed for four formulations of PSE sulphate extended-release 
(DL  D-12)  tablets  exhibiting  different  in  vivo  absorption  and  in  vitro  release  characteristics.  The  in 
vivo  bioavailability  of  these  formulations  was  evaluated  in  20  subjects  under  fasted  conditions 
(P02043).  Wagner-Nelson  analyses  of  the  in  vivo  data  revealed  the  extended-release  absorption 
profiles for all four formulations. Linear regression analyses of mean percent of dose absorbed vs. the 
mean in vitro percent of drug released resulted in statistically significant correlations (point to point) 
for  each  formulation.  The  in  vitro  release  rate  of  PSE  as  a  predictor  of  in  vivo  performance  was 
achieved from developed IVIVC model for all formulations. These data support a Level A correlation 
between  in  vivo  PSE  absorption  profile  and  in  vitro  release  rates  of  four  PSE  extended  release 
formulations determined in fasted healthy subjects. 
Analytical methods 
To  support  the  clinical  studies  conducted  with  the  DL  D-12  tablet,  liquid  chromatographic/tandem 
mass  spectrometric  methods  (LC-MS/MS)  were  developed  and  validated  for  quantitation  of  DL, 
3-hydroxydesloratadine  (3-OH DL,  SCH 45581),  and  PSE  in  human  plasma.  The  method  for 
quantitation of DL and 3-OH DL used  2H4-SCH 34117 and  2H4-SCH 45581 as internal standards for 
15/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DL  and  3-OH DL,  respectively.  The  methods  for  quantitation  of  PSE  used  either  amantadine  or 
  as  an  internal  standard.  In  SN 99238,  the  method  was  cross  validated  for 
1S,2R(+)Ephedrine-D3
plasma collected with either EDTA or heparin as the anticoagulant. However, in the clinical studies, 
heparin  was  used  as  the  anticoagulant;  thus,  the  validation  parameters  are  from  validation  runs  in 
which  heparin  was  the  anticoagulant.  All  analytical  methods  met  the  requirements  for  specificity, 
sensitivity, accuracy, and precision. No endogenous matrix interference was observed at the retention 
times of the  analytes or the internal standards. In addition, analyte stability was demonstrated under 
various storage and sample processing conditions.  
•  Special populations 
- Genetic polymorphism 
DL is extensively metabolized to 3-hydroxydesloratadine (3-OH DL), an active  metabolite, which is 
subsequently glucuronidated. The enzyme(s) responsible for the formation of 3-OH DL have not been 
identified.  Data  from  clinical  trials  with  DL  indicate  that  a  subset  of  the  general  population  has  a 
decreased  ability  to  form  3-OH  DL,  and  are  poor  metabolizers  of  DL.  In  pharmacokinetic  studies 
(n=3748), approximately 6% of subjects were poor metabolizers of DL (defined as subjects with area 
under  the  curve  (AUC)  ratios  of  3-OH  DL  to  DL  less  than  0.1,  or  subjects  with  DL  half-lives 
exceeding 50 hours). The frequency of poor metabolizers in the adult subjects was higher in Blacks 
(18%) than in Caucasians (2%). Similar result was observed in the paediatric subjects (16% Blacks vs. 
3%  Caucasians).  No  safety  issues  have  been  identified  with  DL  in  poor  metabolizers.  Data  pooled 
from various studies indicate that the safety profile of DL poor metabolizers is not different from that 
of the placebo group. 
- Impaired renal/hepatic function 
The pharmacokinetics of the DL D-12 tablet has not been evaluated in renally impaired or hepatically 
impaired  patients.  However,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  DL  has  been  evaluated  in  such  patients  (see 
Original  MAA  DL-EMEA/H/C/310-314-Commission  Decision:  15 JAN 2001).    Due  to  the  lack  of 
data of PSE in these patients, the use of the DL D-12 tablet is not recommended in these patients. 
- Gender 
Sex has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the DL D-12 tablet. Data (weight-
adjusted)  pooled  from  eight  Phase-1  studies,  which  included  183  subjects  (77  women  and  106  men 
between 18 and 45 years old), demonstrated no effect of sex on the pharmacokinetics of PSE from the 
DL D-12 tablet formulations. The ratios of the log-transformed AUC and Cmax values for the male 
subjects to those of the female subjects and the 90% confidence intervals of these ratios were within 
the 80%-125% bioequivalence limits. 
- Race 
The  effect  of  race  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  DL D-12  tablet  was  not  evaluated.  However, 
following  14  days  of  DL  administration,  the  Cmax  and  AUC  values  for  DL  were  18%  and  32% 
higher, respectively, in Blacks compared with Caucasians, probably due to a higher incidence of poor 
metabolizers in Blacks (3 Blacks were poor metabolizer compared with 1 Caucasian). For 3-OH DL, 
there  was  a  corresponding  10%  reduction  in  Cmax  and  AUC  values  in  Blacks  compared  with 
Caucasians.  These  differences  are  not  considered  to  be  clinically  relevant,  and,  therefore,  no  dose 
adjustment is recommended. The frequency of poor metabolizers in the adult subjects was higher in 
Blacks  (18%)  than  in  Caucasians  (2%).  Similar  result  was  observed  in  the  paediatric  subjects  (16% 
Blacks vs. 3% Caucasians).  No safety issues have been identified with DL in poor metabolizers.  Data 
pooled  from  various  studies  indicate  that  the  safety  profile  of  DL  poor  metabolizers  is  not  different 
from that of the placebo group.  
- Elderly 
The  dossier  does  not  present  pharmacokinetic  data  of  the  DL  D-12  tablet  investigated  in  an  elderly 
population. 
16/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Drug  interaction  studies  were  not  conducted  with  the  DL D-12  tablet.  However,  for  DL,  drug 
interaction  studies  were  conducted  with  erythromycin,  ketoconazole,  azithromycin,  fluoxetine,  and 
cimetidine.  There was no clinically significant increase in the plasma concentration of DL and 3-OH 
DL,  and  no  significant  change  in  the  safety  profile  of  DL,  as  assessed  by  electrocardiogram  (ECG) 
parameters, clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, and Aes.  For the PSE component, the proposed SPC 
of the DL D-12 tablet will contain the standard drug interaction statements as stated in the harmonized 
SPC of loratadine /PSE. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic variables were not evaluated with the DL D-12 tablet in the clinical pharmacology 
program.  However,  the  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  DL  tablet  were  extensively  evaluated  in  the 
DL clinical program in adults. For the PSE component, the proposed SPC of the DL D-12 tablet will 
contain  the  standard  pharmacodynamic  properties  as  stated  in  the  harmonized  SPC  of  L/PSE.  The 
pharmacodynamic  properties  of  the  DL D-12  tablet  are  expected  to  be  similar  to  those  of  its 
components, DL and PSE. 
•  Conclusions on pharmacology 
In  conclusions,  the  BA/BE/PK  studies  with  the  DL  2.5  mg  and  PSE  120  mg  Modified  Release 
combination tablets were carried out according to internationally accepted guidelines regarding GCP, 
GLP and pharmacokinetic/statistical  analysis of this type of data. The results of the various Phase-1 
clinical  studies  (A/BE/PK)  show  that  the  final  (to  be  marketed)  DL  D-12  tablet  formulation  is 
bio-equivalent to the formulation with which the safety and efficacy Phase-3 studies have been carried 
out. In addition, the results of two BA/BE studies showed that food has no effect on the bioavailability 
of the two active substances in the DL D-12 tablet. The results of biopharmaceutical studies showed 
no component interaction of the DL/PSE combination tablet, indicating that the pharmacokinetics of 
the individual components would be the same as that from the combination tablet. In addition, single 
and  multiple  dose  studies  showed  no  significant  age-  or  gender-related  influence  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  DL  and  3-OH  DL.  The  lack  of  significant  drug-drug  interactions  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of DL was shown in the original MAA for DL tablets. For the PSE component, the 
proposed SPC of the DL D-12 tablet contain the standard drug interaction statements as stated in the 
harmonized  SPC  of  loratadine/PSE.  No  pharmacokinetic  studies  of  the  DL/PSE  combination  tablet 
were performed with hepatically or renally impaired patients. However, the pharmacokinetics of the 
DL tablet has been evaluated in such patients. The harmonized SPC of L/PSE does not recommend the 
use of it in patients with hepatic or renal impairment.  Likewise, the SPC does not recommend the use 
of  the  DL/PSE  combination  tablet  in  such  patients.  The  CHMP  believed  that  the  extent  of  clinical 
experience  with  DL  and  PSE  makes  the  conduct  of  additional  clinical  trials  investigating  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  DL/PSE  tablet  in  such  patients  unnecessary  and  unlikely  to  extend  scientific 
knowledge in the subject area. The proposed SPC adequately reflects the actual scientific knowledge 
on DL and PSE for the relevant indications. According to the SPC 6% of the subjects in a series of 
pharmacokinetic  and  clinical  trials  had  significantly  higher  plasma  concentrations  of  DL.  Some  of 
these  poor  metabolizers  had  Cmax  values  of  DL  approximately  3-fold  higher  and  a  plasma  half-life, 
which was also approximately 3-fold longer than normal. It is now rather unusual that the enzyme(s) 
responsible  for  the  biotransformation  of  an  active  substance  has  (have)  not  been  identified.  As 
mentioned  in  the  SPC,  this  lack  of  information  makes  it  difficult  to  predict/exclude  certain 
interactions. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Main studies P00355 and P00362 
The efficacy of the DL D- 12 tablet in the treatment of adolescent and adult subjects with SAR was 
evaluated in two identical Phase-3, multi-centre, randomised, active-controlled, double-blind, parallel- 
group studies (P00355 and P00362).  
METHODS 
Sample size and study participants  
A total of 1,248 subjects were randomised to receive study treatment with DL D-12 BID, DL 5.0 mg 
QD, or PSE 120 mg BID (identical to the PSE in DL D-12) for 15 consecutive days. Both studies were 
conducted in adolescent and adult subjects (= 12 years of age) with SAR. 
17/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
To  preserve  blinding,  a  double-dummy  technique  was  used.  One  placebo  tablet  was  identical  in 
appearance to the 5.0 mg DL tablet, and the other was identical to both of the DL D-12 plus 120 mg 
PSE  tablets,  which  themselves  were  identical  in  appearance.  Assigned  study  treatments  were  to  be 
administered  orally  twice  daily,  approximately  12  hours  apart  and  at  approximately  the  same  time 
each morning and evening, without regard for the timing of meals or other daily activities. 
Objectives 
To  assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  DL  D-  12  tablet  in  the  treatment  of  adolescent  and  adult 
subjects with SAR. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variables defined in the protocols were: (1) change from baseline in mean AM/ 
PM PRIOR 12 hours (how the subject felt over the previous 12 hours [reflective]) total symptom score 
excluding  nasal  congestion  (from  the  diary)  for  the  antihistamine  component,  and  (2)  change  from 
baseline in mean AM/ PM PRIOR 12 hours nasal stuffiness/congestion score (from the diary) for the 
decongestant component. 
Statistical methods 
Efficacy: General descriptive statistics and two- way analyses of variance (ANOVA), which extracted 
sources of variation due to treatment and centre. Primary analyses were based on the all-randomised- 
subjects  data  set;  confirmatory  analyses  of  the  primary  efficacy  variables  were  based  on  efficacy-
evaluable  subjects.  Safety:  Incidence  of  treatment-  emergent  adverse  events,  discontinuations  due  to 
adverse events, and changes from baseline in laboratory test results, vital signs, and electrocardiogram 
intervals were summarized and tabulated. 
RESULTS 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  for  the  antihistamine  component  in  the  SAR  studies  (P00355  and 
P00362) was the AM/PM PRIOR 12 hours total symptom score excluding nasal congestion (from the 
diary)  over  the  15-  day  treatment  period  expressed  as  the  mean  change  from  Baseline.  The  primary 
comparison  for  this  variable  was  DL  D-  12  versus  PSE.  Results  of  the  analysis,  with  pairwise 
comparisons across the three treatment groups, are presented in Table 4. 
The primary efficacy variable for the decongestant component in the two studies was the mean AM/ 
PM  PRIOR  12  hours  nasal  stuffiness/  congestion  score  (from  the  diary)  over  the  15-  day  treatment 
period expressed as the mean change from Baseline. The primary comparison for this variable was DL 
D- 12 versus DL. Results of the analyses, including pairwise comparisons across the three treatments, 
are presented in Table 5. 
18/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
In  both  studies,  mean  nasal  congestion  symptom  scores  (AM/PM  PRIOR)  were  similar  across  the 
three  treatment  groups  at  Baseline.  At  the  primary  endpoint  (Days  1  to  15),  DL  D-  12  was 
significantly  (P=  0.005)  more  effective  than  DL  in  reducing  nasal  stuffiness/congestion.  In  Study 
P00355,  mean  percent  reductions  from  Baseline  in  AM/  PM  PRIOR  nasal  stuffiness/congestion 
symptom  scores  for  Days  1-  15  were  37.4%  and  26.7%  for  DL  D-  12  and  DL,  respectively. 
Statistically  significant  improvement  (P=  0.005)  compared  with  DL  was  observed  at  all  time  points 
and time intervals as early as Day 2. In Study P00362,( 2) mean percent reductions from Baseline in 
AM/ PM PRIOR nasal stuffiness/ congestion scores for Days 1 to 15 were 36.0% and 28.9% for DL 
D- 12 and DL, respectively. The DL D- 12 tablet was significantly more effective than DL in reducing 
nasal congestion as early as Day 1 of treatment. Mean and mean percent reductions from Baseline in 
AM/  PM  PRIOR  nasal  stuffiness/congestion  scores  for  Days  1  to  15,  as  well  as  statistical  analysis 
results, were highly consistent between the two studies. The antihistaminic and decongestant efficacy 
of  DL  D-  12  at  the  end  of  the  dosing  interval  were  significantly  greater  than  that  of  PSE  and  DL, 
respectively, over the 15- day treatment period, and were observed as early as Day 2 in both studies. 
Results of the analysis across the three treatment groups are presented in Table 6. In Study P00355, 
mean  percent  reductions  from  Baseline  in  AM/PM  NOW  total  symptom  scores,  excluding  nasal 
congestion,  at  the  primary  endpoint  (Days  1  to  15)  were  45.1%  and  35.6%  for  DL  D-  12  and  PSE, 
respectively. In Study P00362 mean percent reductions from Baseline were 42.1% and 35.7% for DL 
D- 12 and PSE, respectively. The antihistaminic efficacy of DL D- 12 was significantly greater than 
that of PSE at the end of the dosing interval. 
19/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
Overall,  the  results  for  subject-  evaluated  total  symptoms,  excluding  nasal  congestion,  and  nasal 
stuffiness/congestion  scores  for  the  PRIOR  12  hours  and  NOW  time  periods  were  similar  to  those 
observed for the primary PRIOR AM/ PM time period. In the opinion of the CHMP the two clinical 
trials are convincing and no additional questions are to be answered to be able to grant a marketing 
authorisation.  
•  Supportive studies 
A  search  of  the  medical  literature  was  conducted  to  identify  any  studies  comparing  DL  plus  PSE 
versus its components or placebo in the symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis. The terms used in 
the search were DL, PSE and placebo. No reference was identified comparing DL/PSE versus placebo, 
whereas  one  reference  was  identified  comparing  DL/PSE  versus  its  components.  This  reference  is 
based  on  one  of  our  pivotal  studies,  P00362.  Since  no  reference  was  identified  comparing  DL/PSE 
versus placebo, the literature search was extended to L plus PSE against placebo. The terms used in 
the  search  were  L,  PSE  and  placebo.  Seven  references  were  identified.  All  these  references 
consistently  show  that  the  combination  of  L  and  PSE  is  more  effective  than  placebo  in  relieving 
symptoms of allergic rhinitis, including nasal congestion.  
Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
• 
The efficacy of this fixed combination is comparable to the efficacy that has been seen with the other 
fixed combination L plus PSE.  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The safety of DL alone has been well established in clinical trials involving more than 6000 subjects 
and in post- marketing experience. In clinical trials, the adverse event (AE) profile of DL was similar 
to  that  of  the  placebo  group.  The  safety  of  PSE,  a  widely  used  oral  nasal  decongestant,  is  well 
established  when  the  agent  is  used  at  the  recommended  doses.  PSE  is  available  in  many  countries 
without a prescription. To support the clinical development of DL D- 12 tablet, two Phase- 3 and nine 
Phase- 1 studies were conducted. The two Phase- 3 studies and four of the nine Phase- 1 studies were 
conducted with original formulation of the DL D- 12 tablet. One additional study was conducted with 
the  PSE  core  formulations  (without  DL).  Subsequently,  the  original  formulation  was  modified  to 
improve  on  the  stability  of  the  tablet.  With  the  modified  formulation  (final),  four  additional  studies 
were conducted. The safety data of the DL D- 12 tablet presented in this document are derived from 
all these 11 studies. The two Phase- 3 studies (and were multi-centre, randomised, active- controlled, 
double- blind, and parallel- group studies, designed to evaluate whether DL D- 12 tablet BID provided 
greater symptomatic relief than either component alone, and to ascertain the safety profile of DL D- 12 
relative to its components in subjects with SAR. All subjects were included in the safety evaluations: 
414  received  DL  D-  12,  412  received  DL,  and  422  received  PSE.  Of  these  1248  subjects,  83 
20/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
discontinued  the  study  prior  to  scheduled  completion.  Safety  was  evaluated  by  reviewing  AEs, 
electrocardiograms  (ECGs),  vital  signs,  and  laboratory  results.  Forty-  four  subjects  discontinued 
because of AEs. Overall, the percentage of discontinuations was low in each treatment group: 6.0% in 
the  DL  D-  12  group,  5.1%  in  the  DL  group,  and  8.8%  in  the  PSE  group.  A  total  of  126  healthy 
volunteers were enrolled in the four Phase-1 studies that were conducted with the original formulation 
of the DL D- 12 tablet and the one study that was conducted with the PSE core formulations (without 
DL).  Four  were  single-dose  studies,  and  one  was  a  multiple-dose  study.  Eight  subjects  discontinued 
from the studies; two because of AEs. Four studies were conducted with the final formulation of the 
DL  D-  12  tablet.  In  these  studies,  a  total  of  78  healthy  subjects  were  enrolled.  One  subject 
discontinued from  the  study  for  a  reason  not  related  to  AEs.  In  the  four  Phase-  1  studies  conducted 
with  the  original  formulation  of  DL  D-  12  and  one  study  with  the  PSE  cores,  126  subjects  were 
enrolled. Of the 126 subjects, 73 received only DL D- 12, 36 received DL D- 12, 2.5 mg DL, and 120 
mg  PSE,  and  17  received  only  PSE.  Seventy-  eight  subjects  were  enrolled  in  the  four  studies 
conducted with the final formulation of the DL D- 12 tablet. Total patient exposure for patients treated 
with the DL D- 24 tablet is estimated from post market exposure data.  
•  Adverse events  
Overall,  the  incidence  of  severe  treatment-  related  AEs  was  very  low  across  all  treatment  groups, 
occurring in ≤4.5% of subjects in any treatment group. The most frequently reported severe treatment-
related  AEs  across  treatments  were  insomnia  and  dry  mouth,  and  were  reported  more  frequently 
among  subjects  receiving  DL  D-  12  or  PSE  than  those  receiving  DL.  Insomnia  and  dry  mouth  are 
established potential adverse effects of PSE. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Severe AEs that occurred in more than one subject in any treatment group are presented in Table 11. 
The overall incidence of severe AEs was similar in subjects treated with DL D- 12 and PSE (7.7% and 
9.2%), but was lower in subjects treated with DL (4.9%). Insomnia was reported in 1.4% and 2.4% of 
subjects in the DL D- 12 and PSE treatment groups, respectively. Headache was reported by 1.9% of 
DL D- 12 subjects, and dry mouth occurred in 1.0% of DL D- 12 subjects. Sinusitis occurred in 1.7% 
of PSE subjects. All other severe AEs were reported by < 1% of subjects in any treatment group. 
21/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
No deaths were reported in either the clinical efficacy and safety studies or the clinical pharmacology 
studies. 
•  Safety in special populations 
In the Phase-3 studies (P00355 and P00362), the effects of age, race, and sex on the incidence of AEs 
were  also  investigated.  In  general,  no  substantial  difference  in  the  pattern  of  AEs  among  treatment 
groups was evident in any of the demographic subgroups. The overall incidence and pattern of AEs in 
the subgroups was consistent with that observed in the overall population. There were too few subjects 
ages  12  to  <18  years  and  ≥65  years  or  who  were  non-Caucasians  to  make  any  formal  comparisons 
with  respect  to  age  or  race.  According  to  the  SPC  of  L/PSE  tablets  the  combination  should  not  be 
administered to patients above 60 years of age as there are insufficient data concerning efficacy, safety 
and dose recommendations in this group and further patients of 60 years or older are more likely to 
experience  adverse  reactions  to  sympathomimetic  medications.  These  facts  are  also  valid  for  the 
DL/PSE  tablet  and  are  reflected  in  the  SPC.  Additional  explanations  provided  by  the  applicant 
reassured the CHMP that the experience from the single components as well as data from L/PSE 
combination  indicate  that  DL  D-  12  is  safe  and  effective  in  treatment  of  the  symptoms  of 
allergic  rhinitis,  including  congestion,  in  subjects  12  to  <18  years  old  similar  to  the  adult 
subjects.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In the single-dose Phase-1 studies (P02042) food did not significantly alter the safety profiles of either 
formulation  of  DL  D-12  tablets  when  the  formulations  were  administered  with  or  without  food.  In 
Study P02042, none of the subjects in the fasted state, and three subjects in the fed state reported AEs. 
The effects of concomitant medications, tobacco, and alcohol on the safety profile of DL D-12 were 
not evaluated in this submission. Drug interactions were not evaluated in this submission. However, 
previous  studies  have  indicated  that  DL  (one  of  the  components  of  DL  D-12)  may  be  safely  co-
administered  with  azithromycin,  cimetidine,  erythromycin,  and  ketoconazole.  On  the  basis  of  the 
22/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
pharmacological effects and the available clinical data for PSE, no significant interaction is expected 
when PSE is administered concomitantly with the above drugs.  The proposed SPC of the DL D-12 
tablet will contain the standard drug interaction statements of PSE as stated in the harmonized SPC of 
L/PSE. 
•  Post marketing experience 
The  applicant  currently  markets  two  strengths  of  the  DL/PSE  combination  tablets;  DL D-12  tablet 
(approved on 1 FEB 2006) and DL D-24 tablet (3 MAR 2005). The DL D-24 tablet contains 5 mg of 
DL  and  240  mg  of  PSE  (once-daily  daily).  Both  tablets  are  available  only  in  the  USA.  Since  the 
DL D-12 tablet was recently marketed,  no exposure data are available, and as  of 31 MAR  2006, no 
post-marketing  AEs  were  reported  to  the  Global  Pharmacovigilance  Department  (GPV)  of  the 
applicant.  Adverse  events  presented  in  this  section  consist  of  all  spontaneous  and  literature  reports 
reported to GPV with the DL D-24 tablet during the period of 3 MAR 2005 to 31 MAR 2006. 
•  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The safety profile of this fixed combination seems to be very comparable with that of the ones on the 
market. No new signal has been picked up.  
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the MAA to submit a risk management plan because both components are 
already well known and long-term on the market and no important safety concerns have been so far 
identified. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
5 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
For  a  fixed  combination  containing  compounds  for  which  there  is  sufficiently  documented  human 
experience of their individual and combined use, safety studies in animals are in general not required 
(CPMP/EWP/240/95).  This  is  the  case  for  the  DL/PSE  combination,  since  sufficiently  documented 
human  experience  is  available  for  the  L/PSE  combination.  In  addition,  a  comparison  between  the 
newly submitted DL studies and the previously submitted studies with L was made. The non-clinical 
safety  profiles  of  L  and  DL  are  similar.  DL/PSE  is  considered  unlikely  to  represent  a  risk  for  the 
environment following its prescribed usage in patients.  
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  the  DL  D-12  tablet  in  the  treatment  of  adolescent  and  adult  subjects  with  SAR  was 
evaluated  in  2  identical  Phase-3,  multi-centre,  randomised,  active-controlled,  double-blind,  parallel- 
group  studies  (P00355  and  P00362).  A  total  of  1,248  subjects  were  randomised.  Both  studies  were 
conducted  in  adolescent  and  adult  subjects  with  SAR.  The  efficacy  of  this  fixed  combination  is 
comparable to the efficacy that has been seen with the other fixed combination L plus PSE. The two 
23/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical  trials  are  convincing  and  no  additional  questions  are  to  be  answered  to  be  able  to  grant  a 
marketing authorisation. Additionally, a search of the medical literature was conducted to identify any 
studies comparing DL plus PSE and L plus PSE versus its components or placebo in the symptomatic 
treatment  of  allergic  rhinitis.  The  data  presented  in  this  submission  demonstrate  that  the  DL  D-12 
combination tablet is safe and more effective than either component alone in relieving the symptoms 
of SAR, including nasal congestion.  
Safety 
The safety of DL alone has been well established in clinical trials involving more than 6000 subjects 
and  in  post-marketing  experience  In  clinical  trials,  the  AE  profile  of  DL  was  similar  to  that  of  the 
placebo group. The safety of PSE, a widely used oral nasal decongestant, is well established when the 
agent  is  used  at  the  recommended  doses.  PSE  is  available  in  many  countries without  a  prescription. 
The safety data of the DL D-12 tablet presented in this document are derived from all these 11 studies. 
The most frequently reported severe treatment-related AEs across treatments were insomnia and dry 
mouth,  and  were  reported  more  frequently  among  subjects  receiving  DL  D-12  or  PSE  than  those 
receiving  DL.  Insomnia  and  dry  mouth  are  established  potential  adverse  effects  of  PSE.  The  safety 
profile of this fixed combination seems to be very comparable with that of the ones on the market. No 
new signal has been picked up. From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical 
trials and post-marketing have been included in the SPC.  
•  User consultation 
The applicant undertook to submit the results of the readability testing on the product information as a 
post authorisation commitment. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
(cid:131)  The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk 
minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Aerinaze in the symptomatic treatment of seasonal allergic 
rhinitis  when  accompanied  by  nasal  congestion  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation . 
24/24 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
