European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/533232/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Afinitor 
International Nonproprietary Name: everolimus 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001038 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
3.1 
3.2 
3.3 
3.4 
3.5 
3.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 12 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 23 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 64 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 71 
Page 2 of 75 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Novartis  Europharm  Ltd.  submitted  on  01  July  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
Afinitor, which was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/07/449 on 5 June 2007. Afinitor 
was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:    treatment  of  renal  cell 
carcinoma. The calculated prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in the EU is 3.48 per 10,000 population 
with about 171,340 EU residents affected by the condition (based on the population as of January 1st 
2004). 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, whose 
disease has progressed on or after treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) 
No  847/2000,  the  application  contained  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with 
authorised orphan medicinal products. 
Protocol Assistance: 
The applicant received protocol assistance from the CHMP on 30 June 2006. The protocol assistance 
pertained to the clinical development aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
Afinitor has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the USA on 30 March 2009. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Harald Enzmann   
Co-Rapporteur: Tomas P Salmonson 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 01 July 2008. 
The procedure started on 23 July 2008.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 October 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 
October 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  November  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 November 2008. 
A clarification meeting on the CHMP List of Questions with the Applicant and the Rapporteurs 
was held on 08 January 2009. 
Page 3 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The  Applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
16 January 2009 and additional responses on 4 February 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 02 March 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  16-19  March  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
During a SAG meeting on 08 April 2009, experts were convened to address questions raised by 
the CHMP. 
The Applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP Day 180 List of Outstanding Issues on 24 
April 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated an updated Joint Assessment Report on the Applicant’s responses to 
the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 12 and 13 May 2009. 
During the meeting on 26-29 May 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Afinitor  on  29  May  2009  The  Applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 28 May 2009. 
The  CHMP  adopted  a  report  on  similarity  of  Afinitor  with  Nexavar  and  Torisel  on 
21 November 2008. 
Page 4 of 75 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
2.1 
Renal  cell  carcinoma  (RCC)  represents  approximately  2%  of  all  adult  malignancies.  More  than 
208,000 cases of kidney cancer are diagnosed per annum worldwide1. RCC affects more males than 
females (ratio of 1.6:1)1 ,2. The median age at diagnosis is 65 years, while that at death is 71 years3 . In 
Europe, the highest incidence is observed in eastern European countries and in Germany4. Clear cell is 
the  most  common  histological  subtype,  accounting  for  approximately  75-80%  of  the  cases5.  The 
incidence of RCC has increased annually by an estimated 2% over the past 2 decades6 and by 126% 
over the past 50 years7. RCC is currently the sixth leading cause of cancer death and is responsible for 
>100,000 deaths worldwide each year 1.  
Patients  diagnosed  early  in  the  disease  process  and  whose  disease  remains  local  have  a  more 
favourable prognosis compared with those diagnosed with advanced or metastatic disease, with 5-year 
survival rates of 89.6% vs 9.5% 6. The most important prognostic determinants of 5-year survival are 
evidence of metastatic disease at presentation, presence of regional nodal metastases, local extent of 
the  tumour,  and  tumour  grade3.  Approximately  25-30%  of  patients  present  with  metastatic  RCC 
(mRCC) at the time of the initial diagnosis. The typical presentation of RCC involves a symptomatic 
triad:  haematuria,  flank  pain,  or  abdominal  mass.  Patients  with  evidence  of  metastatic  disease  may 
present with signs and symptoms of bone pain, adenopathy, or pulmonary distress3.  
Chemotherapy  and  radiation  therapy  demonstrate  little  efficacy  in  advanced  disease,  and  the  5-year 
survival  rate  ranges  from  5-10%8  .  Until  recently,  standard  therapy  for  advanced  RCC  consisted  of 
cytokine therapy with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and/or interferon-alfa (IFN-α). However, cytokine therapy 
only  benefits  a  minority  of  patients9,10.    The  critical  role  of  angiogenesis  in  RCC  led  to  the 
development  of  treatments  specifically  targeting  VEGF  signalling.  The  VEGF  receptor  protein 
tyrosine  kinase  acts  at  the  level  of  the  endothelial  cell  to  drive  new  blood  vessel  formation.  New 
options for therapy, which have become available over the past 2 years, and which are associated with 
antitumour efficacy include sorafenib, sunitinib, temsirolimus and bevacizumab. 
In the initial application, the proposed indication for everolimus/ Afinitor was: 
 “for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  renal  cell  carcinoma,  whose  disease  has 
progressed on or after treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy”. 
The recommended  posology for Afinitor is 10 mg once daily at the same time every day, consistently 
either with or without food. Treatment should continue as long as clinical benefit is observed or until 
unacceptable toxicity occurs. 
IARC  CancerBase  No.  5.  version  2.0, 
1 Ferlay J, Bray F, Pisani P, Parkin DM. (2004). GLOBOCAN 2002: Cancer Incidence, Mortality and Prevalence 
IARCPress,  Lyon.  Available  at:  www-
Worldwide. 
dep.iarc.fr/globocan/database.htm. 
2 Jemal A, Siegel R, Ward E, et al (2008). Cancer statistics, 2008. CA Cancer J Clin; 58: 71-96. 
3  National  Comprehensive  Cancer  Network.  (2007)  NCCN  Clinical  Practice  Guidelines  in  Oncology.  Kidney 
Cancer. V.2.2007. Available at: http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/PDF/kidney.pdf. 
4 Rubagotti A, Martorane G, Boccardo FM (2006). Epidemiology of kidney cancer. Eur Urol Suppl; 5: 558-65. 
5 Jones J, Libermann TA (2007). Genomics of renal cell cancer: the biology behind and the therapy ahead. Clin 
Cancer Res; 13(2 Suppl): 685s-92s. 
6 Ries  LAG, Harkins D, Krapcho M, et al, eds. (2007) SEER Cancer Statistics Review, 1975-2004. Bethesda, 
MD: National Cancer Institute. Available at: http://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2004. 
7 Pantuck  AJ, Zisman A, Belldegrun  AS (2001). The changing natural history of renal  cell carcinoma. J Urol; 
166: 1611-23. 
8 Garcia JA, Rini BI (2007). Recent progress in the management of advanced renal cell carcinoma. CA Cancer J 
Clin; 57: 112-25. 
9 Bukowski RM (1997). Natural history and therapy of metastatic renal cell carcinoma: the role of interleukin-2. 
Cancer; 80: 1198-220. 
10 Motzer RJ, Bacik J, Murphy BA, Russo P, Mazumdar M (2002). Interferon-alfa as a comparative treatment for 
clinical trials of new therapies against advanced renal cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol; 20: 289-96. 
Page 5 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Everolimus  (INN)  is  approved  since  2003  in  Europe  (trade  name:  Certican  0.25,  0.5,  0.75  and  
1.0  mg  tablets  and  0.1  and  0.25  mg  dispersible  tablets)  via  the  Mutual  Recognition  Procedure  with 
Sweden  as  Reference  Member  State,  for  the  indication  “Prophylaxis  of  organ  rejection  in  adult 
patients  at  low  to  moderate  immunological  risk  receiving  an  allogeneic  renal  or  cardiac  transplant” 
(MRP-number: SE/H/356/01-06).  
Since  November  2002,  Everolimus  has  also  been  in  development  in  the  oncology  setting.  This 
application in advanced renal cell carcinoma is based in some parts, i.e. active substance, non-clinical 
(mainly pharmacokinetics and toxicology) and clinical pharmacology on Everolimus transplant data, 
since  this  information  does  also  apply  to  Everolimus  in  the  oncology  setting.  This  information  was 
previously submitted under the Mutual Recognition Procedure, and is submitted again in this eCTD 
application.  
The  full  active  substance  section  is  presented  as  well  as  the  full  medicinal  product  section  of 
everolimus in oncology (Afinitor) in module 3 of the dossier. Data is presented for 5 mg and 10 mg 
strengths and although the 2.5 mg strength is not applied for, data has been included since it was not 
known at that time which strengths would be marketed. 
Active Substance  
The active substance Everolimus is a hydroxyethyl derivative of rapamycin, which is a macrolide, 
isolated from the micro-organism Streptomyces hygroscopicus.  
The guideline, impurities in new active substances ICHQ 3A (R), does not apply to active substance of 
fermented origin. 
Everolimus (INN) or 42-O-(2-hydroxyethyl)-rapamycin (chemical name) or C 5 3 H 8 3 N O 1 4  has been 
fully described.  
The  molecule  is  amorphous  and  is  stabilised  with  an  antioxidant.  Its  physico-chemical  properties 
including  parameters  such  as  solubility,  pH,  specific  rotation,  potential  polymorphism  and  potential 
isomerism have been fully characterised.  
Everolimus is a white to faintly yellow amorphous powder. It is almost insoluble in water, is unstable 
at temperatures above 25 °C and is sensitive to light. 
In  addition,  possible  isomerism  has  been  investigated.  Everolimus  contains  15  asymmetric  carbon 
atoms  and  4  substituted  double  bonds.  The  configuration  of  the  asymmetric  carbon  atoms  and  the 
double bonds is guaranteed by the microbial origin of Rapamycin. The configuration is not affected by 
the chemical synthesis. 
Polymorphism has been comprehensively discussed and it was demonstrated that the molecule domain 
remains amorphous. 
Page 6 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture 
Synthesis of Everolimus 
The manufacturing process consists of four main steps, (1) fermentation, (2) extraction of rapamycin 
from the fermentation broth, (3) chemical modification of rapamycin starting material, (4) purification 
of crude everolimus and stabilisation with BHT. 
The  choice  of  the  stabilizer  has  been  sufficiently  explained  and  justified  by  experimental  results. 
Interactions  products  of  Everolimus  and  the  antioxidant  were  not  detected,  or  were  below  detection 
limit. 
Rapamycin, obtained by a fermentation process, was used as the starting material.  
Reaction conditions and the necessary in-process controls are described in detail.  
Adequate  specifications  for  starting  materials  and  isolated  intermediates  and  descriptions  of  the  test 
procedures have been submitted.  
Control  of  the  quality  of  solvents,  reagents  and  auxiliary  materials  used  in  the  synthesis  has  been 
adequately documented. It is stated by the manufacturer of rapamycin solution that no starting material 
of animal or human origin is used in the fermentation. 
Elucidation of structure and other characteristics 
The structure of Everolimus has been fully elucidated using several spectroscopic techniques such as 
ultraviolet absorption spectroscopy (UV), Infra-red spectroscopy (FT-IR), proton and carbon nuclear 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H and  13C NMR), mass spectroscopy, diffractometry (X-ray) and 
elemental analysis.  
Related substances 
An extensive discussion was presented on the related substances. The complex structure of Everolimus 
allows several possible degradation pathways to occur at various positions of the molecule. 
Everolimus alone is extremely sensitive to oxidation. By the addition of an antioxidant, the sensitivity 
to  oxidation  is  significantly  reduced  (the  antioxidant  is  known  to  react  as  a  scavenger  of  peroxide 
radicals).  It  is  assumed  that  oxidation  of  Everolimus  proceeds  via  a  radical  mechanism.  All  the 
requirements set in the current testing instruction valid for Everolimus are justified on the basis of the 
results obtained during development and manufactured at the production scale. 
•  Specification 
There is no monograph for Everolimus in either the Ph. Eur. or the USP at present.  
The in-house monograph includes the following tests: appearance (visual examination), identity (IR, 
X-ray,  HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  identity  of  antioxidant  (GC),  tautomer  (HPLC),  residual 
solvents  (GC),  sulphated  ash,  water  content  (Karl-Fischer),  optical  rotation,  colour  of  the  solution, 
active content (HPLC), antioxidant content (HPLC), microbial quality.  
Page 7 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All routine tests either comply with the requirements of Ph. Eur. or  have been described and validated 
in detail.  
Analytical  certificates  for  four  commercial  batches  of  Everolimus  have  been  documented.  The 
certificates were found in compliance with the in-house specification. The proposed specifications and 
analytical methods were considered appropriate for quality control of the active substance.  
triple laminated aluminium foil bags  or 
quadruple laminated aluminium foil bags  
The Everolimus is packaged in either in  
• 
• 
The  inner  layer  is  in  contact  with  the  active  substance.  A  certificate  of  analysis  for  each  primary 
packaging  material  was  provided  as  well  as  the  IR  identification  spectrum  and  the  statements  of 
compliance  with  the  Ph.  Eur  corresponding  monographs.    The  bags  are  sealed  in  an  atmosphere  of 
protective  gas,  to  protect  the  material  from  humidity,  light  and  oxidation.  The  bags  are  placed  in 
suitable containers during handling. 
•  Stability 
Long Term and Accelerated Stability Studies: 
Three  pilot  and  one  production-scale  batches  kept  in  triple laminated  aluminium  foil  bags  or  amber 
glass  bottles  placed  in  aluminium  bags  have  been  placed  under  ICH  stability  studies:  long  term 
conditions (-20°C and +5°C°) and accelerated conditions (25°C/60% RH and 30°C/70 % RH). 
The test methods and their validation were described in a satisfactory manner.  
The following parameters were tested: appearance, identity Everolimus (HPLC, IR), identity BHT, X-
ray  diffraction  pattern,  specific  optical  rotation,  water  (Karl  Fischer),  appearance  of  the  solution, 
related substances (HPLC), assay BHT and assay Everolimus (HPLC). 
No significant alteration of the active substance could be observed when stored in the deep freezer in a 
very  tight  packaging  (aluminium  bags)  under  protective  gas.  When  increasing  temperature,  a  clear 
correlation  could  be  observed  between  the  increase  of  degradation  products  and  a  decrease  of  the 
antioxidant  BHT.  The  comparison  of  the  stability  of  samples  with  BHT  (0.2  %)  or  without  BHT 
demonstrated the protective effect of the antioxidant. 
All quality characteristics were found to be within specifications after storage up to 
•  60 months at -20°C and at 5°C in aluminium bags 
•  12 months at 25°C/60 %RH in aluminium bags  
•  3 months at 25°C/60% RH in amber glass bottles and in aluminium bags  
•  3 months at 30°C/70 % RH in aluminium bags 
Stability studies under stress conditions: 
Stress  testing  (such  as  light,  high  temperature,  humidity  and  forced  degradation  conditions)  was 
performed on one batch kept in glass ampoules. A significant decrease of the antioxidant was observed 
only after storage at higher temperature or when the active substance was unpacked. 
The  active  substance  was  found  sensitive  to  light,  acid  and  base  as  well  as  hydrogen  peroxide. 
Furthermore, the active substance is hygroscopic.  
Stability of Production Batches  
Long-term  stability  results  were  presented  on  three  production  scale  batches  of  Everolimus  kept  in 
triple laminated aluminium foil bags  or in quadruple laminated aluminium foil bags. Everolimus was 
stable  for  60  months  at  -  20°C  or  5°C.  Storage  of  the  same  batches  under  accelerated  conditions 
documented a 6 months stability at 25°C / 60 %RH.  
Re-test period  
Page 8 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the above results, a satisfactory re-test period of Everolimus has been established  when in 
the recommended storage conditions in a very tight packaging.  
Medicinal Product  
Afinitor 5 mg and 10 mg tablets are white to slightly yellowish, elongated tablets with bevelled edge 
and without breaking score.  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The objective was to develop an oral dosage form for a hydrophobic, poorly soluble and chemically 
unstable active substance. The pharmaceutical development of Everolimus 5 mg and 10 mg tablets has 
been adequately detailed. 
Compatibility with excipients: 
During the early stages of development of everolimus tablets, stress tests of active substance with a 
number of excipients commonly used for oral formulations were stored and tested for compatibility. 
Based on those experiments, the following excipients were chosen: butylhydroxytoluene (antioxidant), 
lactose  monohydrate  (filing  agent),  hypromellose  (carrier),  magnesium  stearate  (lubricant),  lactose 
anhydrous (filling agent). 
Clinical trial formulae: 
The composition of the tablets used in the clinical studies is identical to the composition of the tablets 
applied for.   
•  Adventitious Agents 
The only excipients potentially related to BSE/TSE are lactose and magnesium stearate. The applicant 
states that the magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin and that the lactose is obtained from milk, fit 
for human consumption and is in accordance with the requirements stated in the Note for Guidance on 
Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and 
Veterinary Medicinal Products (EMEA/410/01/01 Rev. 2-October 2003). There is no risk of TSE/BSE 
foreseen. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacture  is  a  two  step  process:  preparation  of  the  solid  dispersion  and  preparation  of  the 
tablets. 
Manufacture of Everolimus solid dispersion 
The  manufacture  of  Everolimus  solid  dispersion  consists  of  standard  processes  with  appropriate  in-
process control testing. No process step during manufacture is considered to be critical. 
The  dispersion  is  tested  in  accordance  with  an  intermediate  monograph.  All  testing  procedures  are 
described and validated.  
The  solid  dispersion  is tested  for identity  everolimus  (XRPD,  detection of crystalline  Everolimus  in 
the  solid  dispersion),  residual  solvents,  water  (Karl  Fischer),  identification  and  assay  of  BHT  (GC), 
identification  everolimus  (HPLC),  Assay  everolimus  (HPLC),    degradation  products  (HPLC)  and 
Microbial limit tests. 
Batch  results  of  seven  production  batches  of  Everolimus  solid  dispersion  are  documented.  All 
intermediate batches consistently met the specified the acceptance criteria.  
Based on the stability data, a satisfactory shelf life can be assigned for the Everolimus solid dispersion 
when stored in triple laminated foil bags or stainless steel containers. The product has to be protected 
from water uptake by storing it in tightly closed containers. 
Manufacture of Everolimus 5 mg and 10 mg Tablets 
The manufacture of Everolimus 5 mg and 10 mg tablets consists of standard process with appropriate 
in-process control testing. The solid dispersion is subsequently processed with the other excipients by 
direct compression to obtain the medicinal product. The equipment used consists of a diffusion mixer, 
a sieve and a powder assisted tablet press. The tabletting mixture is prepared with conventional mixing 
Page 9 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  sieving  procedures  and  final  direct  compression.  None  of  the  process  steps  were  considered  as 
critical when applying parameters from within the established operational ranges. During tabletting in-
process  controls  of  average  mass,  hardness,  friability  and  disintegration  time  were  carried  out.  
Everolimus tablets are packaged in double-sided aluminium blister packs. Blisters are assembled in a 
cardboard based pack. 
As  a  conclusion,  the  manufacturing  process  and  in-process  controls  meet  the  current  standards  of 
pharmaceutical  technology  and  are  suitable  to  guarantee  an  appropriate  quality  of  the  medicinal 
products. 
Medicinal Product Process Validation: 
The  two  manufacturing  steps  (solid  dispersion  and  tablets  preparation)  have  been  validated 
independently from each other.  
Validation for the solid dispersion manufacturing process 
The  manufacturing  method  of  Everolimus  solid  dispersion  has  been  validated  on  three  production-
scale batches which have been processed in the same manufacturing facilities, using the same process 
and the same equipment as for the batches intended for marketing.  
All three batches fully met the quality control specifications. Together with the in-process control data 
and the additional testing performed it was demonstrated that the manufacturing process is robust and 
consistently yields a product capable of meeting the predefined quality characteristics. 
Validation of Everolimus 5 mg and 10 mg tablets 
Everolimus 5 mg and 10 mg tablets are produced according to standard manufacturing processes such 
as  mixing,  sieving  and  compression.  The  manufacturing  process  was  validated  on  three  full-scale 
production  batches  of  both  strengths  processed  in  the  same  manufacturing  facilities,  using  the  same 
process and the same equipment as the batches intended for marketing. 
All three batches fully met the quality control specifications. With the in-process control data and the 
additional testing it has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is robust and consistently 
leads to a product capable of meeting the pre-defined quality characteristics. 
Control of excipients 
The  excipients  used  in  the  composition  of  Everolimus  5  mg  and  10  mg  tablets  are  common 
pharmaceutical excipients used for tablets such as BHT, Magnesium stearate, Lactose monohydrate, 
Hypromellose, Crospovidone and Lactose anhydrous. A certificate of analysis was presented for each 
excipient and they all comply with their respective Ph. Eur. monographs. 
•  Product Specification 
Adequate specifications at release and at the end of shelf-life have been described for the 5 mg and 10 
mg  tablets  including  parameters  such  as:  appearance  (visual  examination),  identity  Everolimus  (UV 
and HPLC), identity BHT (GC), mean mass, dissolution Everolimus (UV), related substances (HPLC), 
water  content  (Karl-fischer),  microbial  quality,  assay  Everolimus  (HPLC),  assay  BHT  (GC), 
uniformity of dosage unit (content uniformity Ph. Eur.). 
Analytical  procedures for the  quality  control of the medicinal  product  have  been  described in  detail 
and  non-compendial  methods  validated in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements  whereas  no  validation 
was deemed necessary for the pharmacopoeial methods. 
Batch  analyses  for  3  pilot  scale  and  1  production-scale  batches  of  each  strength  (5  mg  and  10  mg) 
have been provided. All batches consistently met the release specifications. 
Analytical results of three batches tested at the development for another site have been presented. The 
results document, that analytical testing is equivalent at both testing sites and that method transfer has 
been carried out successfully.  
Page 10 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The tablets will be packed in double sided aluminium blister consisting of an aluminium covering (or 
lidding)  foil  with  a  heat  seal  lacquer  and  of  a  PA/Al/PVC  bottom  (or  forming)  foil  in  which  the 
cavities  are  formed.  The  suitability  of  the  container  closure  system  has  been  demonstrated  during 
stability studies. A certificate of analysis for each primary packaging material was provided as well as 
the  IR  identification  spectrum  and  the  statements  of  compliance  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  corresponding 
monographs. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Registration Stability Studies: 
Since the registration stability study was designed and initiated, before a final decision was made on 
the tablet strengths to be marketed, studies were conducted on three pilot batches of Everolimus 2.5 
mg tablets and three pilot batches of Everolimus 10 mg tablets. 
A bracketing approach was used for the 5 mg strength. Since all dosage strengths are manufactured 
from the same tabletting mixture of identical qualitative and quantitative composition the bracketing 
design was found acceptable. The tablets only differ in size and weight. 
Batches were kept in the commercial packaging during 24  months under long term (25°C/60 %RH) 
and  intermediate  conditions  (30°C/75  %RH)  as  well  as  for  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions 
(40°C/75  %RH).  Stability  studies  were  also  performed  during  3  months  (50°C  /  75%  RH)  and  6 
months (-20°C  and 5°C).  
The analytical methods used for stability testing were the same as those used for the release testing. 
All  requirements  of  the  Afinitor  test  specifications  are  valid  at  release  and  throughout  shelf-life. 
However,  for  shelf-life  only  the  stability  indicating  parameters  were  tested,  as  they  are  colour, 
dissolution,  impurities (water,  degradation  products), assay  of  BHT and assay  of  everolimus. Tablet 
form  and  surface,  identity  of  everolimus  and  BHT,  mean  mass,  uniformity  of  dosage  and  microbial 
purity are tested only at release. 
No  significant  change  could  be  observed  for  most  of  the  parameters  tested  during  long-term, 
intermediate  and  accelerated  stability  testing.  Total  amount  of  impurities  shows  a  slight  increase  at 
intermediate and accelerated conditions but all values remained within the specification. 
Photostability  studies  were  conducted  on  one  batch  of  each  strength.  The  tablets  were  treated 
unpacked  with  3,000  luxh,  50,000  luxh  and  1.2  million  luxh.  Unexposed  samples  packed  in  the 
designated commercial packaging material were used for comparison. Results showed that Everolimus 
was sensitive to light. 
A  complete  analysis  (chemical  and  physical  testing)  was  performed  on  one  batch  of  each  strength 
stored for 4 complete freeze and thaw cycles of -20°C for 6 days followed by 1 day at 25°C. Samples 
were taken after 28 days and analyzed. No significant changes were observed. 
The Microbial limit test was performed with one batch of each strength at the initial time point, after 
12 months storage and will be performed at the end of the anticipated shelf life at 25°C/60% RH and 
30°C/75% RH. Data after 12 months storage were presented. All values were within specified limits. 
Stability Summary 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  registration  stability  data,  data  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  when  the 
product is stored under the storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  this  medicinal  product  is  considered  satisfactory  when  used  within  the  conditions 
defined in the SPC. The documentation provided for the active substance everolimus is comprehensive 
and adequately detailed. The pharmaceutical development is adequate and took into consideration the 
properties  and  the  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  excipients  used  are  common  excipients  for 
Page 11 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immediate  release  dosage  forms.  Similarly,  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented  and  no 
incompatibility has been noticed. The validation of the manufacturing process ensures consistency and 
reproducibility  of  the  finished  product.  The  finished  product  has  been  satisfactorily  controlled  and 
stability  studies  conducted  under  ICH  conditions  showed  that  the  product  is  stable  throughout  the 
proposed shelf-life of 2 years. 
At  the time  of  the  CHMP opinion, there  were  two  outstanding  quality  issues  with  no impact on the 
benefit/risk.  The  applicant  undertook  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up  measures 
within  an  agreed  timeframe  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this 
additional information. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
The  nonclinical  studies  for  everolimus  (also  known  as  RAD001)  presented  in  this  submission  were 
performed between 1992 and 2008 and were either performed by Novartis Pharma AG, by a contract 
research  laboratories  or  described  from  the  published  literature.  Relevant  toxicity  studies  were 
performed in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP). 
Repeat-dose oral toxicity studies were performed in mice over 13 weeks, in rats up to 26 weeks, in 
monkeys up to 52 weeks and in minipigs up to 4 weeks. The monkey  was selected as a non-rodent 
species because gastrointestinal intolerability of everolimus was seen in the oral rising-dose study in 
the  dog  [Study  41DED]  precluding  this  species  from  treatment  for  longer  periods.  Similar  findings 
have been reported with rapamycin in this species 11, 12. 
ADME  and  toxicity  studies  were  performed  with  3H-  or  14C-radiolabeled  and  non-radiolabeled 
everolimus  in  the  mouse,  rat  and  monkey  after  oral  (p.o.)  and  intravenous  (i.v.)  administration  and 
repeated  i.v.  administration  of  everolimus  were  performed  in  rats,  minipigs  and  monkeys.  The 
blood/plasma distribution and plasma protein binding of 3H-radiolabeled everolimus in the mouse, rat, 
monkey and human was studied in vitro. The ability to cross the blood-brain barrier was investigated 
in vivo in the rat. The metabolism of everolimus was investigated in vivo in the mouse, rat and monkey 
as well as in vitro using animal and human liver microsomal fractions and liver slices. The absorption 
and intestinal metabolism of everolimus was studied in vitro and in vivo. Since the proposed route of 
administration of everolimus in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma is oral, the i.v studies are 
of low relevance. 
Introduction 
Everolimus  is  a  derivative  of  rapamycin.  These  two  compounds  are  part  of  a  family  of  specific 
inhibitors  of  mTOR  (Figure  1).  mTOR  is  a  serine-threonine  kinase  acting  as  a  signal  transducing 
protein,  which  signals  information  via  the  regulation  of  multiple  downstream  pathways.  mTOR 
regulates cellular metabolic state, protein synthesis, cell proliferation (including angiogenesis) and cell 
survival.  Everolimus  and  other  mTOR  inhibitors  achieve  inhibition  of  mTOR  by  binding  the 
cytoplasmic  immunophilin  receptor  FKBP-12.  mTOR  is  downstream  of  PI3K,  and  is  considered  a 
component  in  the  PI3K/AKT/mTOR  pathway  which  is  known  to  be  involved  in  numerous  human 
cancers 13. 
Figure 1 
The mTOR pathway and everolimus 
11  Calne  RY,  Collier  DSJ,  Lim  S,  et  al  (1989).  Rapamycin  for  immunosuppression  in  organ  allografting.  The 
Lancet; 22:227. 
12  Collier  DSJ,  Calne  R,  Thiru  S,  et  al  (1990).  Rapamycin  in  experimental  renal  allografts  in  dogs  and  pigs. 
Transplant Proc; 22(4):1674-1675. 
13  Luo  J,  Manning  BD,  Cantley  LC  (2003).  Targeting  the  PI3K-Akt  pathway  in  human  cancer:  rationale  and 
promise. Cancer Cell; 4:257-62. 
Page 12 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
RTK
IRS1
PI3K
PIP3
PDK1
308-
AKT
-473
Hypoxia Nutrients
HIF-1 CIII PI3K AMPK
PTEN
TSC1/2
RHEB
REDD1
RICTOR
mTORC2
mLST8
mSIN1
Raf
MEK
ERK
RTK
GRB
SOS
RAS
RAD001
FKB12
RAPTOR
mTORC1
mLST8
S6K
4EBP
Protein Translation
D-cyclins, c-myc
HIF-1/2α
G1-S transition
Proliferation
Angiogenesis
Glycolysis
Cell Survival
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Everolimus binds to FKBP-12 with an affinity (IC50 = 5.3 nM) similar to rapamycin (IC50 = 3.3 nM) 
and was inactive in tumour cell lines expressing mutant mTOR lacking the appropriate binding site 14. 
Everolimus  showed  no  inhibitory  activity  in  vitro  against  10  different  protein  kinases  at  10  µM  or 
below.  Everolimus  showed  antiproliferative  effects  against  most  of  the  tested  tumour  cell  lines  in 
vitro.  Most  of  the  cell  lines  (80%)  showed  IC50  values  of  between  0.3  and  70  nM.  There  was  a 
correlation  between  basal  phospho-AKT/Phospho-S6  levels  and  anti-proliferative  activity  of 
everolimus  in  these  tumour  cell  lines  which  could  be  useful  indicators  of  the  mTOR  pathway 
activation  and  sensitivity  to  everolimus.  Everolimus  inhibited  proliferation  of  endothelial  cells 
(HUVECs) with IC50 values of 120 pM, 841 pM and > 10 nM for VEGF-, bFGF-, and foetal bovine 
serum stimulated proliferation, respectively. Normal haematopoietic stem cells were not as sensitive to 
everolimus, with an IC50 about 15-fold higher than the tumour cell lines.  
Everolimus was evaluated for anti-tumour activity in 81 different human tumour xenografts grown in 
vitro  using  a  clonogenic  assay.  Everolimus  inhibited  tumour  colony  formation  in  a  broad 
concentration-dependent  manner,  resulting  in  low  IC50-values  (0.18  µm).  Anti-tumour  activity  of 
everolimus  was  studied  in  a  wide  range  of  different  tumour  xenografts  grown  in  athymic  mice.  At 
doses (0.1 to 10 mg/kg, p.o., once per day) below the maximally tolerated dose of > 60 mg/kg, p.o., 
once per day, everolimus was capable of reducing the tumour growth rate and final tumour volume, 
and  was  active  against  tumour  lines  considered  sensitive  in  vitro  (A549,  NCI  H-596,  NCI  H-520, 
B16/BL6)  as  well  as  those  described  as  insensitive  in  vitro  (HCT-116,  KB-31  and  the  P-gp  over-
expressing  (MDR)  line  KB-8511).  Everolimus  treatment  rarely  significantly  reduced  mouse  body 
weights and no deaths could be directly attributable to everolimus.  
There  were  6  RCC  lines  which  demonstrated  that  in  two  tumour  models,  everolimus  caused 
regressions in 50% of the treated mice. Overall in all 6 lines, everolimus caused impairment of tumour 
growth producing T/C values (tumour value (change) divided by control value (change)) of between 
0.03 and 0.63 (mean±SEM of 0.29±0.1) and the treatment was very well tolerated. 
14 Beuvink I, Boulay A, Fumagalli S, et al (2005). Sensitization of Tumor Cells to Cisplatin- Induced Apoptosis 
By RAD001 Through mTOR Dependent Inhibition of p21 Protein Expression. Cell; 25:747-59. 
Page 13 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The in  vivo  efficacy  of  everolimus  against  tumour  growth  was  established  using  different  xenograft 
models  of  human  tumours  (including  pancreatic,  colon,  epidermoid,  lung  and  melanoma)  and  three 
syngeneic models (rat pancreatic CA20948 and GH3 prolactinoma and murine B16/BL6 melanoma). 
In the xenograft models, everolimus (10 mg/kg, p.o., once per day) was effective at producing a mean 
T/C of 0.27 and a median value of 0.24 with a minimum value of -0.11 (regression) and a maximum 
value of 0.73. The activity of everolimus was mostly cytostatic but transient tumour regressions were 
also  observed  occasionally  with  durable  regressions  in  two  tumour  models  (one  mammary  and  one 
lung  adenocarcinoma:  3%  of  total).  In  the  syngeneic  models  (Lewis  and  Wistar-Furth  rats  bearing 
rapidly  growing  well-vascularised  s.c.  CA20948  and  s.c.  GH3  prolactinoma  tumours  respectively), 
everolimus was well tolerated and exhibited a dose-dependent anti-tumour activity. Significant tumour 
growth suppression was observed at a dose of 0.5 and 2.5 mg/kg/day and 5 mg/kg once, twice or three 
times  per  week.  Further  experimentation  indicated  that  weekly  everolimus  doses  exhibited  dose-
dependency, with significant anti-tumour responses at doses >1 mg/kg/week.  
To address the mechanism of tumour growth reductions in these models, the vascular parameters of 
these tumours were studied. Reduced VEGF levels, blood vessel density (BVD) and smooth muscle 
actin coverage of tumour blood vessels (one of the markers of blood vessel maturity) were observed. 
However, everolimus did not affect endothelial cell migration or reduce vascular permeability.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Everolimus prevents acute allograft rejection in rat and non-human primate allotransplantation models, 
especially when used in combination with CsA. This was confirmed in a rat model where two different 
schedules (2.5 mg/kg daily or 5 mg/kg weekly) reduced IgG levels in response to a T-cell dependent 
antigen but much less so using the 5 mg/kg schedule. Both schedules showed anti-tumour activity in a 
rat model (0.5 mg/kg, 6 days per week: T/C=0.3; 5 mg/kg, weekly: T/C=0.36). 
Everolimus reduced mouse osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation in vitro and also osteoclast bone-
resorbing activity at concentrations similar to that of sensitive human tumour cell lines (0.6-1.3 nM). 
Similar activity in vitro was also observed against human osteoclast activity and formation. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The studies related to safety pharmacology observed that everolimus was devoid of relevant effects on 
vital  functions  including  the  cardiovascular  function,  respiratory  function  and  nervous  systems. 
Everolimus  had  no  influence  on  QT  interval  prolongation  as  shown  with  isolated  sheep  cardiac 
Purkinje  fibres,  in  stable  transfected  HEK293  cells  (hERG  currents)  and  with  conventional  ECG 
monitoring in minipigs and monkeys.  
Although everolimus passes the blood-brain barrier, there was no indication of relevant changes in the 
behaviour of rodents, even after single oral doses up to 2000 mg/kg.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Combinations of everolimus with other anticancer agents were tested using both in vitro and in vivo 
models.  Investigations  included  using  established  drugs  involving  the  more  traditional  targets  of 
microtubules  (paclitaxel,  patupilone),  anti-metabolites  (gemcitabine  and  5-fluorouracil)  and  DNA 
(cisplatinum,  doxorubicin  and  temozolomide)  and  targeted  compounds/drugs  for  the  oestrogen 
receptor (ER) (letrozole), human epidermal growth factor (Her-2, ErbB1/2) (gefitinib, erlotinib, NVP-
AEE788)  and  vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  receptor  (VEGFR)  (NVP-AEE788,  vatalanib, 
bevacizumab) signal transduction pathways. 
There was weak additivity or synergy observed with the combination compounds and this was attained 
in  vivo  using  tolerable  combination  schedules.    There  were  no  cases  where  anti-tumour  antagonism 
was observed in vitro. In vivo antagonism was only observed for the combination with paclitaxel when 
the taxane was administered 24 hr before or after everolimus.  There were no consistent patterns of 
any advantage in terms of schedule other than concomitant treatments.  
Page 14 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption - Bioavailability 
The  absorption  and  intestinal  metabolism  of  everolimus  was  studied  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  The  oral 
absorption of everolimus  was  low  in  mice  (12%),  monkey  (18%)  and  medium  in rats (~  40%). The 
bioavailability of unchanged everolimus was 14-26% in the rat and 6% in the monkey. The absolute 
bioavailability of everolimus was 5% in the mouse, 6% in the monkey and 14%-26% in the rat.  
Multiple  daily  oral  doses  (0.5  mg/kg/day)  of  3H  everolimus  given  to  rats  increased  the  AUC0-24h 
exposure of everolimus radioactivity moderately 2.4-fold on Day 21 compared to Day 1, which was 
expected  from  the  observed  apparent  half-life  of  96 hours  for  radioactivity  elimination.  Systemic 
exposure  to  everolimus  in  blood  was  substantial  in  the  mouse  and  human  (63%  and  40%  of  total 
radioactivity AUC0-24h) and moderate to low in the rat and monkey (8%-14%).  
Everolimus is a substrate for P-glycoprotein mediated efflux systems. Studies in Caco-2 cells showed 
that  everolimus  was  a  substrate  for  the  prominent  trans-membrane  efflux  transporter  system  P 
glycoprotein (P-gp; MDR1; ABCB1). Inhibitors of P-gp might decrease the efflux of everolimus from 
some organs or tumours and, therefore, increase the everolimus concentrations in these tissues. 
Distribution 
The blood/plasma distribution and plasma protein binding of 3H-radiolabeled everolimus in the mouse, 
rat, monkey and human was studied in vitro.  
The in vitro blood distribution of 5 ng/ml everolimus was concentration-dependent, being 76% in rat 
and 79% in monkey. However, the blood cell uptake decreased to 11% in rat and 29% in monkey at an 
everolimus concentration of 1000 ng/ml. In the mouse blood, the majority of everolimus (~ 98%) was 
located  in  plasma.  The  concentration  dependency  of  the  blood/plasma  partitioning  suggests  the 
presence of saturable high-affinity/low-capacity binding sites for everolimus in the blood cells. As a 
consequence, in almost all of the pharmacokinetic studies the determination of unchanged everolimus 
was  performed  in  whole  blood.  In  plasma,  the  free  fraction  of  everolimus  was  independent  of 
concentration (50 and 100 ng/ml) and averaged 7.6% in the rat and 16% in the monkey, but only 0.1% 
in mouse indicating higher protein binding in the mouse than in the other species tested. 
The volume of distribution at steady-state (Vss) was species dependent and ranged from high in the rat 
(44-52 l/kg),  moderate  in  monkeys  (4.3  l//kg)  to  very  low  in  the  mouse  (0.42  l/kg).  In  rats,  14C 
everolimus  tissue  distribution  studies,  radioactivity  was  essentially  extravascular  with  highest  levels 
found in heart, lung, liver, kidney, spleen, thyroid, and adrenal gland. Unchanged everolimus was the 
major component of tissues radioactivity of rats after single oral or intravenous administration. In the 
rat,  the  blood-brain  passage  of  everolimus  and/or  its  metabolites  was  found  to  be  dose-dependent. 
Similar distribution patterns were obtained in the rat with 3H-radiolabeled everolimus.  
The  transfer/excretion  of  3H-radiolabeled  everolimus  and  its  metabolites  into  milk  was  investigated 
after a single oral administration of 0.9 mg/kg to lactating rats at Day 9 after parturition. The transfer 
of radioactivity from blood into milk was rapid and very pronounced, as radioactivity was detected at 
30 minutes post-dose. Maximum radioactivity concentrations in milk were reached at 2 h post-dose. 
The terminal elimination half-life of total radioactivity was roughly similar to that in blood over the 
time interval 48 to 96 h. 3H-everolimus-related radioactivity passed the placenta of pregnant rats to a 
limited degree and was readily transferred into milk of lactating rats.  
Everolimus and/or its metabolites showed no affinity for melanin-containing tissues (choroid plexus of 
the eye) or persistent binding to any organ or tissue. 
Metabolism 
The  metabolism  of  everolimus  was  investigated  in  vitro  using  animal  and  human  liver  microsomal 
fractions and liver slices and in vivo in the mouse, rat and monkey after single oral and intravenous 
doses.  
Page 15 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The major enzyme responsible for the oxidative metabolism of everolimus in human liver microsomes 
was CYP3A4. Other cytochrome P450 enzymes did not or at very low rates metabolize everolimus. In 
vitro incubations of everolimus with liver microsomes from mouse, rat, monkey and human resulted in 
metabolite  patterns  which  were  comparable  to  those  observed  in  vivo  in  the  corresponding  species, 
except P57 (ATG181) and P147, which were not formed in vitro.   
In  the  blood  of  all  investigated  species  including  human,  everolimus  was  generally  the  major 
circulating component, averaging in mice, rats and humans between 31% and 63% of the total AUC(0-
24h) radioactivity, and 12% in the monkey. In human blood, five major metabolite peaks were present, 
covering together with unchanged drug, more than 80% of the total 14C-AUC. These metabolite peaks 
were  also  detected  in  blood  of the  mouse,  rat  and  monkey.  Two  of the  metabolites  were  formed  by 
ring-opened  hydrolysis  of  everolimus  e.g.  PKF229-255,  and  subsequent  dehydration  with  an 
additional double-bond (between carbon 33 and 34), the seco acid of everolimus, PKF226-320. Two 
other main metabolites were identified as 46-hydroxy-everolimus and 24/25-hydroxy- everolimus (the 
24/25-hydroxy metabolites are eluded in one peak. The above mentioned major metabolites contribute 
to 13% (46-hydroxy- everolimus), 12% (24/25-hydroxy- everolimus), 6.5% (PKF226-320) and 4.1% 
(PKF229-255) of the total AUC in humans respectively.  
The metabolic pathways in vivo are illustrated in Figure 2.  
Figure 2 
Proposed in vivo biotransformation pathways of everolimus in human, 
monkey, rat and mouse 
Conjugation with 
fatty acids (P147)
- Linolic acid
- Myristic acid
- Palmitoleic acid
- Arachidonic acid
OH
52
O
40
O
39
41
38
42
37
4
49
36
35
Hydrolytic compounds
35
33
32
34
OH
O
35
33
34
32
O
PKF229-255
(P36)
PKF226-320
seco-acid
(P40)
48
33
32
34
30
31
Conjugation with
phospatidylcholine
(P57)
5
6
43
O
OH
11
12
7
N
8
9
10
O
14
13
3
2
1
O
O
47
51
29
O
28
OH
27
26
O
25
46
20
24
Hydroxylation
24-OH-RAD and  
25-OH-RAD
(both eluting in one peak)
(P50)
19
22
21
23
45
Hydroxylation
46-OH-RAD
(P42)
O
O
O
16
15
50
18
17
44
A further metabolite peak (P147) of very lipophilic nature was present in considerable amounts in the 
milk of the rat. This peak was also present in a few tissues (e.g. duodenum), and occasionally in blood 
and in faecal samples of the rat, monkey and human.  
Unchanged  everolimus  was  the  main  component  in  blood  and  all  tissues  investigated,  followed  by 
metabolite peaks P40, P50 and P57. Peak P147 was most prominent in the duodenum, and Peak P57 
was most prominent in the kidney. 
In  the  rat,  a  large  number  of  metabolites  were  excreted  almost  exclusively  via  the  bile  into  faeces. 
Only trace amounts of everolimus could be detected in urine, bile, and faeces. Rapamycin, which may 
Page 16 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be  formed  by  cleavage  of  the  40-hydroxyethyl  side  chain  of  everolimus,  was  detected  in  monkey 
studies after multiple doses of 0.5 mg/kg/day (7.8%-10.7% of the everolimus blood concentration). 
The pharmacological activity of the hydrolysis products of everolimus PKF229-225 and PKF226-320, 
and the hydroxylated metabolites 46-hydroxy- everolimus and 24/25-hydroxy- everolimus were tested 
and were compared to everolimus and rapamycin for their activity in the mixed lymphocyte reaction 
(MLR)  assay.  Everolimus  was  found to  be  3-fold  less  active  compared  to  rapamycin.  PKF  226-320 
and  229-255  were  about  60-  to  145-fold  less  active  than  everolimus.  The  hydroxy  metabolites,  46-
hydroxy- everolimus and 42-/25-hydroxy- everolimus were about 533-fold and 97-fold less active than 
everolimus  respectively.  Hence,  primary  metabolites  of  everolimus  did  not  show  any  significant 
pharmacological activity.     
Excretion 
The excretion of everolimus was investigated in the mouse, rat and monkey following intravenous and 
oral administration of 3H- or 14C-labeled everolimus.  
Everolimus was predominantly eliminated through metabolic biliary/faecal clearance in mouse and rat 
species.  Excretion  was  essentially  complete  in  all  species.  Renal  excretion  was  a  minor  component 
(0.05%-0.5%  of  dose  for  rat).  No  unchanged  drug  was  detected  in  urine  or  faeces.    In  the  mouse, 
excretion of everolimus (either oral or i.v. dose) was almost complete (95%) within 48 hours in the 
faeces. The apparent systemic elimination half-life of everolimus in the mouse was 9.8 hours (period: 
24-72  h),  although  the  total  blood  clearance  was  low  at  0.79 ml/min/kg  compared  to  rat  (21  and 
32 ml/min/kg). 
In a rat study, the administered 3H-radioactivity (1 or 10 mg/kg, i.v.) was recovered predominantly in 
the faeces (69 to 82% of dose). In bile duct-cannulated rats, biliary excretion amounted to 71% of the 
dose. Thus, the observed systemic clearances of 21 and 32 ml/min/kg consisted almost exclusively of 
metabolic clearance. The terminal half-life of everolimus was 60 hours after intravenous dosing (1 and 
10 mg/kg) and 61 and 47 hours after oral doses (1.5 and 15 mg/kg). Oral dosing of 1.5 mg/kg of 14C-
radiolabeled everolimus in the rat yielded a similar tissue distribution pattern as obtained with the 3H-
radiolabeled compound, the recovery of radioactivity being nearly complete (95%) within 7 days . The 
excretion via urine was almost negligible (0.05% of dose) and in bile (0.5% of dose). After multiple 
daily oral doses of 0.5 mg/kg/day 3H-everolimus given to rats for 21 consecutive days, the excretion of 
radioactivity was almost complete within 7 days after the last dose.   
In the monkey (1 mg/kg; i.v.), the radioactivity was excreted mainly in faeces (67% of dose, i.v.; 76% 
of  dose,  p.o.).  Balance  of  excretion  was  not  yet  complete  after  7  days,  due  to  slow  and  continuing 
faecal  excretion.  The  terminal  half-life  of  the  parent  drug  in  blood  was  27 hours  and  the  systemic 
clearance  was  3.1  ml/min/kg,  smaller  than  that  observed  in  the  rat  but  in  the  range  of  the  apparent 
systemic clearance observed in human (CL/F= 2.4 ml/min/kg). 
A  substantial  enrichment  of  everolimus  and/or  metabolites  was  observed  in  the  milk  compartment: 
from 30 min to 8 hours post-dose the M/B ratio increased by a factor of 11. Thus, everolimus and/or 
its metabolites were readily transferred/excreted into the milk of lactating rats.  
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Potential of everolimus to interact with cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 
The identification of enzymes responsible for the metabolism of everolimus was carried out in vitro in 
human liver microsomes (HLM) and in microsomes from cells expressing single human cytochrome 
P450 isoenzymes (CYPs).  
CYP3A4 was the major enzyme involved in the microsomal biotransformation of everolimus. Other 
CYP  isoenzymes,  such  as  CYP1A1,  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C8,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A5 did not metabolize everolimus.  
The  effect  of  a  series  of  compounds  on  the  metabolism  of  everolimus  (1  µM)  was  investigated  in 
human liver microsomes. IC50 values determined for inhibition of everolimus microsomal metabolism 
Page 17 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by  cyclosporine  (CsA)  (2.2  µmol/l),  rapamycin  (0.8  µmol/l),  ketoconazole  (0.03  µmol/l  and 
0.35 µmol/l)  and  itraconazole  (0.18  µmol/l)  showed  that  concomitant  medication  with  strong 
inhibitors of CYP3A4 have the potential to reduce everolimus metabolism in vivo. 
Potential of everolimus as an inhibitor of co-administered drugs 
Everolimus  was  shown  to  be  a  competitive  inhibitor  of  the  CYP3A4  substrate  CsA  in  vitro  (Ki  = 
2.3 µmol/l)  and  was  also  a  mixed  inhibitor  of  the  CYP2D6  substrate  dextromethorphan  (Ki  = 
1.7 µmol/l). Everolimus had no effect on phenacetin and chloroxanone metabolism by CYP1A2 and 
CYP2E1, respectively. Everolimus had little or no effect on the metabolism of paclitaxel, tolbutamide 
and s-mephenytoin by CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, respectively. 
No interaction between everolimus and oral anticoagulants such as warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate; IC50 
~ 33  µmol/l)  is  expected  no  interaction  was  observed  in  vitro  in  human  liver  microsomes.  The 
generation of 7-hydroxywarfarin, a marker for CYP2C9 activity, was inhibited with an IC50 value of 
106 µmol/l. 
Potential of everolimus to interact with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) 
Everolimus  was  shown  to  be  a  substrate  of  the  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp;  MDR1)  and  to  be  a  moderate 
inhibitor of P-gp in vitro using a cell line over-expressing P-gp. The IC50 value of the inhibition was 
9.4 µmol/l, 9-fold higher than that of the positive control CsA. This IC50 value is more than 50-fold 
and 150-fold higher than the maximal steady-state blood concentrations following a 70 mg/week and 
10 mg/day everolimus dose, respectively, in patients. Therefore, it is unlikely that everolimus would 
affect the distribution of P-gp substrates in tissues. 
Potential of everolimus to induce the liver drug-metabolizing enzymes 
There  were  no  signs  of  relevant  in  vivo  induction  of  the  liver  drug  metabolizing  enzymes  by 
everolimus, although no data from hepatocytes were available.  
Potential of co-administrated drugs to induce the metabolism of everolimus 
Co-administration of CsA, a known CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and P-gp inhibitor in human, to rat (5 
and  10  mg/kg/day)  or  monkey  (50  and  100  mg/kg/day)  for  four  weeks  significantly  increased  the 
blood AUC of everolimus by 1- to 5-fold in the rat, and by 3- to 7-fold in the monkey. Conversely, 
everolimus did not increase significantly the AUC of CsA.  
Toxicology 
Acute oral and intravenous toxicity studies were conducted in mice and rats. Repeated-dose toxicity 
studies were performed with durations up to 4 weeks in minipigs, 13 weeks in mice, 26 weeks in rats 
and  up  to  52  weeks  in  monkeys.  The  monkey  was  selected  as  a  non-rodent  species,  since 
gastrointestinal intolerability of everolimus in the dog was seen after rising-doses between 2 and 18 
mg/kg during only 9 days, precluding this species from treatment for longer periods. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The acute toxicity of everolimus was assessed in mice and rats. Everolimus was well tolerated after 
single oral administration in acute toxicity studies. No lethality or severe toxicity was observed after 
single oral doses of 2000 mg/kg in either mice or rats. In rats, intravenous administrations at 10 and 40 
mg/kg were lethal, but at 2.5 mg/kg all animals survived.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated dose oral toxicity studies were performed in mice, rats, minipigs, and monkeys. Major target 
organs in all animal species were reproductive organs. Histopathological findings consisted mainly of 
depletion  of  germ  cells  and  tubular  vacuolation  in  testes,  reduced  sperm  content  in  epididymides, 
reduced  ovarian  follicular  development  and  uterine  atrophy.  Reversibility  of  changes  in  male 
reproductive organs was demonstrated in a 13-week rat study at 0.5 mg/kg after 13 weeks of recovery, 
whereas  at  5.0  mg/kg  full  recovery  was  achieved  in  only  half  of  the  animals.  These  findings  were 
accompanied by a decrease in circulating testosterone plasma levels.  
Page 18 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  a  slight  depletion  of cortical  bone  mass  only  in  the rat  in  the  4-week  rat  studies at ≥ 5.0 
mg/kg. There were findings in the lungs (increased alveolar macrophages) in mouse and rat studies. 
An increased number of alveolar macrophages were detected at ≥ 1.5 mg/kg in the mouse and at ≥ 0.5 
mg/kg in the rat.  Electron microscopic examinations of rat lungs revealed vacuoles and multilamellar 
bodies  in  the  macrophages.  Pituitary  gland  (decrease  in  weight)  and  eye  lesions  (lenticular  anterior 
suture  line  opacities  and  swelling/disruption  of  cortical  lens  fibres)  were  considered  either  species-
specific  or  rodent-specific  target  organ.  The  finding  of  dilated  lateral  ventricles  in  the  brain  of  rats 
treated with everolimus or rapamycin was exacerbated at higher dosages only in the 2-week studies, 
but not at longer duration or in other species. Renal tubular degeneration in CD-1 mice after 13 weeks 
of  treatment  at  ≥  5  mg/kg  was  considered  related  to  the  exacerbation  of  pre-existing  interstitial 
inflammation,  possibly  as  a  consequence  of  immunosuppression  and/or  an  impaired  regeneration  of 
renal  lesions.  There  was  no  indication  of  kidney  toxicity  in  mice  after  life-long  treatment  up  to  0.9 
mg/kg.  In  rats,  incidence  and  severity  of  lipofuscin  in  renal  tubular  epithelial  cells  was  more 
pronounced in treated animals at ≥ 0.3 mg/kg than in controls of the oncogenicity study, and occurred 
already  after  26  weeks  of  treatment  at  ≥  0.5  mg/kg.  Increased  incidence  of  hydronephrosis  was 
observed in male rats at ≥ 0.5 mg/kg in the 26-week study. Increased incidence of hydronephrosis was 
observed in a small number of male rats at ≥ 0.5 mg/kg in the 6-month study which were considered 
reversible and were not seen in rats of the 2 year carcinogenicity study at doses up to 0.9 mg/kg. There 
were no indications of kidney toxicity in monkeys or minipigs. Findings in the pancreas were evident 
in  the  4-week  minipig  and  in  the  26-week  monkey  study.  In  the  exocrine  pancreas,  degranulation 
(monkeys) and vacuolation (minipigs) of cells were observed in relation to an affected general health 
condition  of  the  animals.  This  was  partly  associated  with  necrosis  in  minipigs  at  15.0  mg/kg,  when 
animals died or were sacrificed early due to poor condition consequent to gastrointestinal problems.  
Pancreatic islet cell vacuolation has been reported for rapamycin in rats in association with cataracts 
and hyperglycemia. Hyperglycemia without pancreas findings also occurred in monkeys treated with 
rapamycin.  Hyperlipidemia was increased in most species at ≥ 0.5 mg/kg. 
Immunosuppressant  effects  of  everolimus  included  changes  in  lymphatic  organs  such  as  thymus, 
spleen and lymph node associated with a decrease in circulating lymphoid as well as white blood cells, 
and  a  variety  of  skin  alterations  in  mouse  and  monkey  (e.g.  abrasions,  ulceration,  inflammation, 
scabs). These showed full or at least partial reversibility after a 2- or 4-week recovery period. There 
were  increased  spontaneous  background  diseases.  In  the  rat,  spontaneous  heart  lesions  (myocardial 
degeneration,  also  reported  as  chronic  myocarditis)  were  exacerbated  by  the  treatment  with 
everolimus,  in  general  at  doses  ≥ 1.5  mg/kg.  Degenerative  myocardial  lesions  were  noted  in  the 
monkey  at  ≥ 5  mg/kg  in  the  2-week  study  and  at  1.5  and  5  mg/kg  in  the  26-week  study.  Intestinal 
disorders associated with diarrhoea led to poor general health condition and some early sacrifices in 
minipigs  and  monkeys.  This  was  evident  in  the  4-week  study  in  minipigs  from  an  exacerbation  of 
coccidial infestation in the intestine and in the 52-week study in monkeys from inflammatory changes 
in the gastrointestinal tract which contributed to the premature termination of the high-dose group at 
0.9 mg/kg after 39 weeks. 
After multiple oral dosing for 13 weeks and in a carcinogenicity study in mice the systemic exposure 
to  everolimus  in  blood  was  approximately  proportional  to  the  dose.  In  rat  studies,  the  systemic 
exposure of everolimus in blood increased over-proportional to the dose by a factor between 3 and 6, 
whereas in a 26-week toxicity study about a linear increase to the dose was observed. 
Adult  and  juvenile  monkeys  were  exposed  similarly  with  slightly  under-proportional  increases  with 
dose. Pregnant rabbits were exposed to everolimus in a dose-proportional manner. 
There was no gender effect and everolimus did not accumulate in the blood of any species. 
Comparison  of  exposure  levels  at  the  NTEL  or  NOAEL  in  animals  with  those  at  the  proposed 
therapeutic dosage in humans of 10 mg/day resulted in similar or even lower ratios. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Everolimus is not genotoxic as indicated by in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicology studies. 
Page 19 of 75 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  required  for  the  present  indication.  However,  studies  investigating 
carcinogenicity  with  everolimus  showed  an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  malignant  granulocytic 
leukaemia in mice. The high dose in the mouse carcinogenicity study provides an AUC levels < 0.2 
times higher than the expected clinical exposure at a dose of 10 mg/day and an AUC of 514 ng.h/ml.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  was  evaluated  in  male  fertility  studies  in  rats,  female 
fertility  and  embryofoetal  development  studies  in  rats,  embryofoetal  development  study  in  rabbits, 
peri- and post-natal development study in rats, neonatal and juvenile study in rats and juvenile study in 
monkeys.  In fertility studies in rats, everolimus caused testicular morphology changes, and a decrease 
in male fertility but had no effect on female fertility. After a recovery period, there was reversibility in 
only  half  of  the  animal.    In  rats,  everolimus  caused  embryofoetal  toxicity  comprising  mortality  and 
reduced  foetal  weight.  The  incidence  of  skeletal  variations  and  malformations  were  increased.  In 
rabbits, embryo toxicity was evident by an increase in late resorptions at the maternally toxic dose of 
0.8 mg/kg. The NTEL for embryotoxicity was 0.2 mg/kg, although maternal toxicity was observed at 
this dose. Effects of everolimus on the pre- and postnatal development of rats were limited to slight 
effect on body weight and survival in the F1-generation at ≥0.1 mg/kg, and did not indicate a specific 
toxic potential. Exposure ratios animal/man were estimated to be <1, which might indicate a potential 
risk in patients during pregnancy. In juvenile monkeys (approximately 1 year old), the oral treatment 
with everolimus at dosages up to 0.5 mg/kg for 4 weeks did not cause relevant toxicity. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
In oral juvenile toxicity studies in rats and monkeys a similar toxicity profile to that observed in adult 
animals was found except for the rare specific lens findings where young animals appeared to be more 
susceptible. 
•  Local tolerance  
The  sensitization  potential  of  everolimus  was  investigated  in  the  guinea  pig  and  the  skin  irritation 
potential  in  the  rabbit.  Furthermore,  the  intravenous  tolerability  of  a  microemulsion  formulation  of 
everolimus  was  evaluated  in  the  rabbit.  Everolimus  was  not  irritant  to  the  skin  of  rabbits  or  guinea 
pigs.  For intravenous administration, all solutions were locally well tolerated 
•  Other toxicity studies 
The antigenicity potential for everolimus was tested by active systemic anaphylaxis (ASA) reaction in 
guinea  pigs,  the  passive  cutaneous  anaphylaxis  (PCA)  reaction  in  guinea  pigs  (with  serum  from 
sensitized  guinea  pigs)  and  rats  (with  serum  from  sensitized  mice).    Everolimus  caused  no 
anaphylactic reactions and thus was considered to have no antigenicity potential.  
No specific immunotoxicity study was conducted with everolimus.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Considering the orphan drug designation of everolimus for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma, the 
predicted  environmental  concentration  of  everolimus  is  below  the  trigger  value  for  a  phase  II 
assessment  (10  ng/l).  The  method  used  for  the  determination  of  logKow  was  a  High  Performance 
Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) method following OECD guideline for testing of chemicals No. 117. 
The HPLC method was chosen based on the low water solubility of everolimus (< 0.01%). The pH 
value of everolimus dissolved in water is 7.2. Determination of a pH dependent distribution coefficient 
(logD) is not applicable for this active pharmaceutical ingredient, as everolimus does not possess any 
ionisable groups. The logKow is of 4. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Everolimus is a selective mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor. mTOR is a key serine-
threonine kinase whose activity is known to be upregulated in a number of human cancers. Everolimus 
binds  to  the  intracellular  protein  FKBP-12,  forming  a  complex  then  inhibits  mTOR  complex-1 
Page 20 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
(mTORC1) activity. Inhibition of the mTORC1 signalling pathway interferes with the translation and 
synthesis of proteins by reducing the activity of S6 ribosomal protein kinase (S6K1) and eukaryotic 
elongation  factor  4E-binding  protein  (4EBP-1)  that  regulate  proteins  involved  in  the  cell  cycle, 
angiogenesis and glycolysis. Everolimus reduces levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), 
which  potentiates  tumour  angiogenic  processes.  Everolimus  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  the  growth  and 
proliferation of tumour cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and blood-vessel-associated smooth muscle 
cells and has been shown to reduce glycolysis in solid tumours in vitro and in vivo. 
There  were  no  major  objections  raised  during  the  assessment  of  the  non-clinical  part  of  the 
application.  
Everolimus is a derivate of rapamycin. Everolimus, like rapamycin, is a specific inhibitor of mTOR. 
Inhibition of mTOR occurs via the binding of everolimus to the intracellular protein FKBP-12. mTOR 
is  downstream  of  PI3K  and  is  considered  a  component  in  the  PI3K/AKT/mTOR  pathway  which  is 
known to be involved in numerous human cancers. 
Antiproliferative  activity  of  everolimus  was  tested  in  a  broad  range  of  human  tumour  cells in  vitro. 
Most cell lines (80%) were considered sensitive with IC50 values of between 0.3 and 70 nM.  
Everolimus also showed significant anti-tumour activity in a wide range of different human xenografts 
grown  in  athymic  mice.  The  anti-tumour  activity  observed  of  everolimus  was  typically  that  of 
reduction  of  tumour  growth  rates  rather  than  producing  regression.  Anti-tumour  activity  was  also 
demonstrated  in  xenografts  models  bearing  tumours  that  were  insensitive  in  vitro.  Due  to  the 
insensitivity  of  some  tumour  cell  lines  to  everolimus  a  number  of  biomarkers  of  sensitivity  and 
resistance  to  everolimus  were  investigated.  S6  kinase  and  other  biomarkers  were  sensitive  to 
everolimus  treatment.  Taken  together,  these  data  show  that  the  broad  anti-tumour  activity  of 
everolimus  is  not  limited  to  human  tumour  xenograft  models  but  extends  also  to  well-vascularised 
syngeneic rat tumour models.  
Safety pharmacology studies indicated that everolimus has no adverse effects on the function of vital 
organs  including  CNS,  cardiovascular  and  respiratory  system.  However,  everolimus  showed 
immunosuppressive  and  reduced  bone  activity,  which  could  be  attributed  to  the  anti-proliferative 
activity of everolimus and to an hormonal imbalance. 
The  oral  absorption  of  everolimus  was  low  in  mice  (12%),  monkey  (18%)  and  medium  in  rats  (~ 
40%).  The  bioavailability  of  unchanged  everolimus  was  14-26%  in  the  rat  and  6%  in  the  monkey, 
suggesting considerable first-pass metabolism. First-pass metabolism is also implied by the difference 
between  absorption  and  bioavailability  across  species.  Everolimus  is  a  substrate  for  P-glycoprotein 
mediated efflux systems.  
In plasma, the free fraction of everolimus was independent of concentration and averaged 7.6% in the 
rat, 16% in the monkey, and 25% in human, but only 0.1% in the mouse. Except for the mouse, blood 
distribution  of  everolimus  was  concentration-dependent,  being  66%  and  79%  in  rat  and  monkey 
respectively.  
The volume of distribution (Vss) was species dependent and ranged from high in the rat (44-52 l/kg) 
to very low in the mouse (0.37 l/kg). An intermediate value could be estimated for human (Vz/F= 14.2 
l/kg). In rats, tissue distribution of radioactivity was essentially extravascular with highest levels found 
in heart, lung, liver, kidney, spleen, thyroid, and adrenal gland. Unchanged everolimus was the major 
component of tissues radioactivity of rats after single oral or intravenous administration. In the rat, the 
blood-brain passage of everolimus and/or its metabolites was found to be dose-dependent. 
Everolimus-related  radioactivity  passed  the  placenta  of  pregnant  rats  to  a  limited  degree  and  was 
readily transferred into milk of lactating rats suggesting that nursing infants of mothers administered 
everolimus  would  ingest  parent  compound  and/or  metabolites.  There  was  decreased  male  fertility, 
which  was  partially  reversible  after  a  washout  period  following  withdrawal  of  everolimus 
Page 21 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration.  These findings suggest a relationship to an endocrine imbalance, which was evidenced 
in rats by a decrease in circulating testosterone levels after everolimus.  
Everolimus  is  mainly  eliminated  by  metabolism  in  the  mouse,  rat  and  monkey.  In  all  species 
everolimus formed a large number of metabolites. Everolimus is essentially metabolized CYP3A4 in 
the liver and to some extent in the gut wall. Therefore, co-medications that are strong CYP3A4 have 
the potential to reduce everolimus metabolism in vivo. Conversely, everolimus inhibited competitively 
the  metabolism  of  the  CYP3A4  substrate  cyclosporine  (Ki  =  2.3  µmol/l)  and  was  also  a  mixed 
inhibitor of the metabolism of the CYP2D6 substrate (Ki = 1.7 µmol/l) in vitro. 
Everolimus  was  predominantly  eliminated  through  metabolic  biliary/faecal  clearance  in  all  animal 
species.  Excretion  was  essentially  complete  in  all species.  Renal  excretion  was  a  minor  component. 
No unchanged drug was detected in urine or faeces.  
Repeat  dose  toxicity  in  the  mouse,  rat,  minipigs  and monkey  was  observed. The  major  target  organ 
was the reproductive system where males were generally more affected than females. These findings 
were  accompanied  by  a  decrease  in  circulating  testosterone  which  could  be  caused  by  a  down-
regulation of testicular mRNA levels encoding key proteins involved in the early steps of testosterone 
synthesis. There was also a depletion of cortical bone mass in the rat which could be due to hormonal 
imbalance.  Minor  kidney  changes  were  seen  in  the  rat  (exacerbation  of  age-related  lipofuscin  in 
tubular  epithelium)  and  in  the  mouse  (exacerbation  of  background  lesions).  The  aetiology  and 
toxicological relevance of an increased incidence of pancreatic islet cell degeneration in the 26-week 
monkey  study  at  5.0 mg/kg  is  unknown;  there  were  no  similar  findings  in  all  the  other  studies, 
including  all  species.  As  there  might  be  a  class  effect  on  the  pancreatic  islet  cell  function  due  to 
mTOR  inhibition,  a  concern  was  raised  by  the  CHMP  as  this  may  be  of  clinical  relevance.  To 
minimize the risk for hyperglycemia in humans, a recommended monitoring of fasting serum glucose 
prior to the start of Afinitor therapy and periodically thereafter was included in the SPC section 4.4 
and 5.3. In addition, optimal glycaemic control has also been communicated before starting a patient 
on Afinitor.  
In monkeys, degenerative myocardial lesions were noted at ≥5 mg/kg in the 2-week study and at 1.5 
and  5  mg/kg  in  the  26  week  study.  The  pathogenesis  of  the  heart  lesions  observed  in  monkeys  is 
unknown  and  this  was  of  concern  to  the  CHMP.  Similar  findings  were  reported  for  other  mTOR 
inhibitors  (rapamycin)  15,  16  and  were  attributed  to  pre-existing  parvovirus  infection  17.  In  the  latter 
study,  virological  examinations  of  plasma  identified  high  titres  of  Coxsackie  virus  B4  in  samples 
collected before and after the treatment period, which were increased in the samples collected from the 
high-dose animals at 5 mg/kg. Immunostaining with antibodies to Coxsackie virus in heart, pancreas 
and lymph nodes revealed positive results in heart tissues, although a positive immunoreaction against 
coxsackievirus in plasma and heart did not show a clear correlation to histopathological findings in the 
heart.  Therefore, 
the  anticipated 
immunosuppression  of  everolimus  which  permitted  a  detectable  opportunistic  viral  infection  and 
contributed to the poor health of the animals.  
findings  could  be  considered  as  secondary 
these 
to 
All by- and degradation products have been appropriately qualified in the toxicology study program on 
everolimus. 
Everolimus  is considered  an  immunosuppressant  which  affects  the  lymphatic  organs  and circulating 
white blood cells and thus is expected to modulate immune function. 
15  Chan  CC,  Martin  DF,  Xu  D,  et  al  (1995).  Side  effects  of  rapamycin  in  the  rat.  J  Ocul  Pharmacol  Ther; 
11(2):177-181. 
16  DiJoseph  JF  and  Sehgal  SN  (1996).  Sirolimus:  Side  effect  profile  in  animal  studies.  Principles  of  drug 
development  in  transplantation  and  auto-immunity,  [ed.  by  Liebermann  R  and  Mukherjee  A];  R.G.  Landes 
Company, Chapter 12,3:289-294. 
17  Vu  MD,  Qi  S,  Xu  D,  et  al  (1997).  Tacrolimus  (FK506)  and  sirolimus  (rapamycin)  in  combination  are  not 
antagonistic  but  produce  extended  graft  survival  in  cardiac  transplantation  in  the  rat.  Transplantation; 
64(12):1853-1856. 
Page 22 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The logKow is of 4, therefore the persistent bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) screening assessment is 
considered not necessary. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Everolimus has been in clinical development as an immunosuppressant for solid organ transplantation 
since 1996.  
The applicant received scientific advice on the study design for renal cell carcinoma patients from the 
CHMP in 2006 on clinical issues. The CHMP scientific advice focussed on the importance of showing 
benefit in overall survival (OS) and questioned progression free survival (PFS) as the choice for the 
primary endpoint. The appropriateness of placebo was questioned with reference to other treatments as 
comparators  considered  possible  by  CHMP.  The  trial  design  as  a  crossover  of  placebo  to  active 
treatment  was  also  discussed  in  the context  of  patient  recruitment.  Additionally,  the  acceptability  of 
efficacy  data  (PFS  data)  from  an  interim  analysis  was  identified  as  an important  issue  since  interim 
analyses are usually acceptable for overall survival and relate to the maturity of the data. In the end, 
the view of the SAWP/CHMP regarding OS as the choice of endpoint for final and interim analysis 
(OS) was not followed by the company.  
On  5  June  2007,  orphan  designation  (EU/3/07/449)  was  granted  by  the  European  Commission  to 
Novartis  Europharm  Limited,  United  Kingdom,  for  everolimus  for  the  treatment  of  renal  cell 
carcinoma. 
For  the  indication  in  renal  cell  carcinoma,  the  applicant  submitted a  pivotal  phase  III,  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled  study  (Study  C2240).  The  development  program  supporting  this  indication 
consisted  of  3  dose-finding  and  phase-I  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  advanced  solid 
tumours  ([Study  C2101  monotherapy/C2102],  [Study  C2107],  and  [Study  C1101]).  The  clinical 
development  program  was  conducted  taking  into  consideration  relevant  current  guidelines.  The 
recommended  dose  is  10 mg  everolimus  once  daily.  Treatment  should  continue  as  long  as  clinical 
benefit is observed or until unacceptable toxicity occurs. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP and all applicable regulatory requirements 
and the guiding principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, as claimed by the applicant 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  number  of  studies  with  elements  of  clinical  pharmacokinetics  have  been  performed.  Some  of  the 
studies were performed in the transplantation setting which have thus been performed at a lower dose 
(food  effect,  hepatic  impairment  and  in  vivo  interaction  studies)  and  some  in  combination  with 
cyclosporine  (e.g.  mass-balance  study  and  study  in  transplant  patients  with  renal  impairment).  The 
more  formal  bio-equivalence  trials  (in  healthy  volunteers)  have  been  performed  as  a  randomised, 
open-label,  two  to  four-period  crossover  trials  with  a  sufficient  long  wash-out  period  between  the 
periods. A typical sampling frequency in these more formal trials was about 10 times blood drawn in 
12 hours. Furthermore, population PK approaches and meta-analysis have been used for solving some 
specific questions. 
Page 23 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Summary of key pharmacokinetic studies 
Study objectives, population 
Study 
No. 
Healthy subjects 
[A2302]  Drug interaction study (rifampin) 
Impaired hepatic function 
[A2303] 
[A2304]  Drug interaction study (cyclosporine) 
[A2408]  Drug interaction study (erythromycin) 
[A2409]  Drug interaction study (ketoconazole) 
[A2410]  Drug interaction study (verapamil) 
[W302] 
Food interaction study 
[W303]  Drug interaction study (atorvastatin, pravastatin) 
Patients 
[B157] 
Impaired renal function in renal transplant 
patients 
[C2101]  Basic pharmacokinetics in patients with advanced 
solid tumours 
[C2102]  Basic pharmacokinetics in patients with advanced 
solid tumours 
[C2107]  Exposure-response relationships in patients with 
advanced solid tumours 
[W107]  Mass-balance study in renal transplant patients 
[2120] 
light-fat meal vs. high-fat meal vs. fasting 
No. of 
subjects 
Treatment 
duration 
Medication dose 
12 
16 
24 
16 
12 
16 
24 
24 
94 
92 
55 
4 
24 
2 x single doses 
Single dose 
2 x single doses 
2 x single doses 
2 x single doses 
2 x single doses 
2 x single doses 
3 x single doses 
Multiple doses 
(1 year) 
Multiple doses 
(4 weeks) 
Multiple doses 
(4 weeks) 
Multiple doses 
(4 weeks) 
Single 14C-radio-
labelled dose 
three-period, six-
sequence crossover 
study of single dose 
4 mg 
1 mg 
2 mg 
2 mg 
1 or 2 mg 
1 mg 
1 mg 
2 mg 
1, 2, 4 mg/day 
5, 10 mg/day 
5, 10, 20, 30, 50, 
70 mg/week 
5, 10 mg/day 
5, 10, 20, 30, 50, 
70 mg/week 
5, 10 mg/day  
20, 50, 70 mg/week 
1 mg 
10 mg 
Reference: [Synopses of Individual Studies], [Tabular Listing of all Clinical Studies] 
Everolimus pharmacokinetics has been evaluated utilizing non-compartmental methods and nonlinear 
mixed effects modelling. 
•  Absorption and bioavailability  
Everolimus is rapidly absorbed after oral administration of the 10 mg tablet. Maximum concentration 
was obtained after median 1 h range (0.5-2.5 hrs). Absolute bioavailability has not been determined. 
Lower  limits  of  absolute  bioavailability  estimates  are  5%  and  11%  based  on  the  mass  balance  trial 
W107.  The  5%  represents  the  recovery  of  radioactivity  in  urine  while  the  estimate  of  11%  derives 
from a calculation of the radioactive dose (parent drug and metabolites) circulating in the blood stream 
at Cmax (calculated with the mean maximal blood concentration of radioactivity and an assumed blood 
volume of 5L). Bioequivalence has been demonstrated for AUC and Cmax between the final marketing 
formulations (5 and 10 mg) and the formulation used in the pivotal clinical study after administration 
of single dose 10 mg under fasting conditions. 
Food effect was studied at a 2  mg dose (study W302). Intake of everolimus with food resulted in a 
60%  lower  Cmax  and  a  16%  lower  AUC.  A  study  in  healthy  subjects  (study  C2120)  confirmed  the 
effects of food on oral absorption of everolimus using the 10 mg everolimus. Taking everolimus with 
a high-fat meal or light meal respectively decreases Cmax by 54% and 42% and AUC0-∞ by 22% and 
32%  in  comparison  to  the  fasted  state,  but  has  no  apparent  effects  on  post-absorption  phase 
concentration-time profiles (Figure 3).  
Figure 3 
Geometric mean concentration-time profile for everolimus in whole blood 
on a short time scale (24 hours) – linear view (PK population) – Study 
C2120 
Page 24 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RAD001=everolimus; hrs=hours 
•  Distribution 
Everolimus  blood-to-plasma  ratio  is  concentration  dependent  and  a  large  portion  of  everolimus  is 
bound to blood cells. Therefore, concentrations of everolimus were determined in blood. Distribution 
to blood cells is high and saturation of blood cell uptake of everolimus was evident at concentrations 
above  100  ng/ml.  With  the  concentrations  obtained  after  daily  dose  of  10  mg,  about  20%  of  blood 
concentration  is  confined  to  plasma  and  blood  to  plasma  ratio  is  fairly  constant.  Plasma  protein 
binding is around 74%. In the population analysis based on patients with advanced cancer, the typical 
value  of  apparent  volume  of  distribution  V/F  were  209  L  and  530  L  for  the  central  and  peripheral 
compartments  respectively.  In  human,  the  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (Vss)  expressed  as  Vz/F 
was 14.2 l/kg. 
Metabolism 
In  vitro  investigations  suggest  that  the  major  and  nearly  exclusive  enzyme  responsible  for  the 
metabolism  of  everolimus  in  man  is  CYP3A4.  Other  CYP  isoenzymes  either  do  not  metabolize 
everolimus  or  do  so  at  very  low  rates.  Five  major  metabolite  peaks  (P36,  P40,  P42,  P50,  P57, 
containing 6 metabolites) were detected in blood: three mono-hydroxylated metabolites resulting from 
hydroxylation  at  carbon  positions  24,  25,  and  46  and  two  hydrolytic  ring  opened  products.  One 
metabolite  peak  was  identified  as  a  direct  phosphatidylcholine  conjugate  of  everolimus  (metabolite 
P57).  As  investigated,  these  metabolites  are  approximately  100-times  less  active  than  the  parent 
compound.  
In  human,  the  metabolism  of  everolimus  was  investigated  in  stable  renal  transplant  patients  after  a 
single oral dose of 3 mg  14C everolimus (Study W107) (Figure 4). Patients were under concomitant 
treatment  of  the  immunosuppressant  CsA  microemulsion  (Neoral).  Pharmacokinetic  profiles  of 
Page 25 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolites  after  administration  of  everolimus  10  mg  without  cyclosporine  was  not  provided.  It  is 
likely that the metabolite profile will differ when administered without cyclosporine which affects first 
-pass  formation  of  metabolites,  elimination  and  distribution  of  everolimus.  It  is  unknown  whether 
cyclosporine also affects the elimination and distribution of the metabolites.  
Figure 4 
Mean blood concentrations time profile of radioactivity and parent 
substance – Study W107 
Rapamycin, which may be formed by cleavage of the 40-hydroxyethyl side chain of everolimus, was 
detected in human blood samples at very low amounts. In patients treated with 3 mg 14C-radiolabeled 
everolimus, rapamycin accounted for about 1% of the total  14C-AUC. Moreover, in pharmacokinetic 
studies in human after single (25 mg, p.o.) and multiple (0.75 mg/day; 22 days) dosing of everolimus, 
rapamycin  blood  concentrations  were  only  2.7%-5.4%  and  3.8%-5.2%  of  the  everolimus  blood 
concentration, respectively. 
•  Elimination and excretion 
The elimination half-life is around 30 hours in patients with advanced cancer. CL/F was around 20 l/h 
in healthy subjects and patients with advanced cancer of different origin.  
Excretion  and  metabolism  have  been  investigated  in  the  mass  balance  trial  W107  in  4  male  stable 
renal transplant patients on treatment with cyclosporine. After an oral 14C-labelled dose of everolimus, 
85% of  the  radioactivity  was recovered in faeces  (80%)  and  urine  (5%)  within 10  days.  Unchanged 
everolimus accounted for about 40% of the AUC of total radioactivity in blood. In this trial terminal 
half-lives were determined to be in the range of about 30 to 37 h.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  has  been  investigated  in  healthy  volunteers  at  single  doses  of  0.5-4  mg  (trials 
W105 and A1101, the latter in Japanese volunteers). Both trials showed linear pharmacokinetics in the 
single dose range investigated. It has been concluded that PK in the range investigated is linear with 
the exception of a less than dose proportionally increase of Cmax at the dose of 20 mg or higher per 
week. 
The pharmacokinetics of everolimus at 5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, 50 mg, 70 mg given weekly, and 
at 5 mg and 10  mg  given  daily each as monotherapy was investigated in parallel groups of patients 
with advanced solid cancers. Pre-dose blood samples were obtained in Weeks 2, 3, 4, and 5 and a full 
concentration-time profile in Week 4. The result for the weekly dosing only (daily schedule allowed 
the same conclusion as regards dose proportionality/linear PK) are shown at steady state in Table 2. 
The  PK  in  the  range  investigated  is  linear  with  the  exception  of  a  less  than  dose  proportionally 
increase of Cmax at the dose of 20 mg or higher per week. 
Page 26 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Summary statistics of everolimus steady-state pharmacokinetic 
parameters: Weekly dosing - Protocols C2101 and C2102 
From  trials  C2101  and  C2107  (solid tumour  patients)  steady  state  is  reached  by  week  2,  after  daily 
administration  of  either  5  or  10  mg.    After  week  2,  there  is  no  apparent  time  dependency  but  no 
comparison to Day 1 has been made, thus a time –dependency in pharmacokinetic at the 10 mg daily 
dose  could  not  be  evaluated.  With  a  half-life  of  approximately  30  h,  steady  state  is  expected  to  be 
reached after 1 week 
Inter-individual variability of PK parameters (in particularly Cmax and AUC) is in the range of about 20 
to 50%. Variability of Cmin appeared to be even higher in the Phase III study but this might be caused 
by inaccurate recording of the sampling in some subjects.  
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
In  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  in  168  patients  with  advanced  cancer,  no  significant 
influence of creatinine clearance (25 – 178 ml/min) was detected on CL/F of everolimus. The data in 
patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  is  sparse  but  renal  impairment  is  considered  not  to  have  a 
significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of everolimus. Based on the analyses and data presented 
no dosage adjustment for everolimus is required for renal impairment. 
Impaired hepatic function 
In trial A2303, 8 subjects with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B, score 7 to 9) and 8 healthy subjects 
matched for gender, age, height, and weight received a single 2 mg dose of everolimus. Everolimus 
absorption  was  not  influenced  by  hepatic  impairment  as  evidenced  by  comparable  Cmax  and  tmax  to 
those in control subjects. Compared with healthy subjects, subjects with moderate hepatic impairment 
had higher mean values for AUC0-∞ (115%) and half-life (84%) and lower CL/F (53%) (Table 3). 
Page 27 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Everolimus pharmacokinetics with 2mg single dose – Study A2303 
There is no observed effect of gender, weight and age on the PK of everolimus. 
Race  
No  significant  difference  in  apparent  clearance  (CL/F)  was  detected  for  Asians  (n  =  17)  in  the 
population  pharmacokinetic  evaluation.  Blacks  (n  =  65  transplant  patients)  had  in  average  a  20  % 
higher  apparent  clearance  compared  with  non-blacks.  The  difference  was  not  considered  clinically 
relevant for this indication. Data from Japanese healthy subjects resided in Japan (trial A1101) were 
comparable  with  those  from  non-Japanese  healthy  subjects  resided  outside  Japan  across  all  clinical 
pharmacology studies in which everolimus was administered under fasting conditions and without co-
medications. There was comparable CL/F between Japanese and Caucasian patients with similar liver 
functions. 
Paediatric population (<18 years) 
Everolimus  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  children  below  age  18  years  due  to  insufficient  data  on 
safety and efficacy in paediatric cancer patients.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Everolimus  is  a  substrate  for  CYP3A4  and  P-gp,  thus,  inhibitors  and  inducers  will  affect  the 
pharmacokinetics of everolimus. Table 4 summarizes the major findings of the interaction trials. 
Page 28 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Effects of CYP3A4 inhibitors, inducers and substrates on AUC of 
everolimus (mean AUC ± SD) 
Effect of other drugs on everolimus 
Large effects were observed with inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp. The potent CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitor 
ketoconazole  resulted  in  a  15-fold  increase  in  AUC,  i.e.  a  1  mg  dose  of  everolimus  in  combination 
with ketoconazole resulted in AUC values in the range obtained after 10 mg daily doses in oncology 
patients. Erythromycin increased everolimus exposure by 335% on average and Verapamil increased 
everolimus  exposure  by  249%.  Orally  administered  cyclosporine  increased  everolimus  exposure  by 
168%, while intravenously administered cyclosporine increased everolimus AUC by 74%.  
The  effect  on  everolimus  pharmacokinetics  of  the  inducer  rifampicin  was  evaluated  at  day  8  and 
resulted in a 63% decreased AUC. Based on PK modelling, a 20 mg dose is predicted to adjust the 
AUC to the approximate range observed in the absence of an inducer, although there are no clinical 
data available with this dose adjustment in patients receiving potent CYP3A4 or PgP inducers (Figure 
5).   
Page 29 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 
Predicted concentration-time profiles of everolimus in blood at steady-
state when administered alone or in combination with a potent CYP3A4 
inducer rifampin 
E ve ro lim u s  10  m g  d a ily
E ve ro lim u s  20  m g  d a ily +  R ifa m p in
1 0 0
1 0
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
s
u
m
i
l
o
r
e
v
E
d
e
i
t
c
d
e
r
P
L
m
g
n
/
,
d
o
o
B
n
l
i
0
3
6
9
1 2
1 5
1 8
2 1
2 4
2 7
3 0
3 3
3 6
3 9
4 2
4 5
4 8
T im e  a t S te a d y-S ta te , H o u r
Concentrations for the everolimus 10 mg qd monotherapy were predicted using the pharmacokinetic 
parameters estimated by fitting the monotherapy data in Study A2302 to a 2-compartment open model. 
Concentrations for the  everolimus  20  mg  qd  in  combination  with  rifampin  were  predicted  using  the 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  estimated  by  fitting  the  combination  data  (everolimus  +  rifampin)  in 
Study A2302 to a 2-compartment open model. 
Effect of everolimus on other drugs 
No significant effects of everolimus were seen on atorvastatin (CYP3A4) substrate and pravastatin but 
the effects were evaluated at a too low single dose of everolimus. A 10 mg daily dose of everolimus 
was used when evaluating the effect of everolimus on letrozole. It is unknown whether letrozole is a 
sensitive substrate for CYP3A4 in vivo as it is also metabolized by CYP2A6.  Therefore an interaction 
study  with  orally  administered  midazolam  is  requested  as  a  follow  up  measure.  Although  systemic 
inhibition of P-gp is unlikely everolimus may inhibit P-gp in the gut and hence affect bioavailability of 
co-administered drugs. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Pharmacodynamics 
A  number  of  studies  have  been  used  to  investigate  the  pharmacodynamic  (PD)  properties  of 
everolimus. Overall, there are 3 PD studies/sub-studies (studies C2107, C2239, and C2240) and side 
effects  and  efficacy  have  been  correlated  with  exposure  and/or  dose.  Furthermore,  secondary 
pharmacology (cardiac toxicity) has been studied in a separate trial (study C2118). 
•  Mechanism of action 
There were no clinical studies investigating the mechanism of action.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The rationale for the daily 10 mg dose, which was the dose used in the pivotal trial C2240, is based on 
the  PD  (dose-marker  responses)  observations  in  trial  C2107.  Study  C2107  was  a  Phase  I,  non-
randomised,  open  label  multi-centre  trial  in  patients  with  advanced  solid  cancers  to  determine  the 
optimal  dose  and  dose  schedule  of  everolimus  based  on  safety,  tolerability  and  pharmacodynamic 
effect. Daily (5 and 10 mg) and weekly (20, 50, 70 mg) regimens were investigated in parallel. Up to 6 
patients were to be recruited to each cohort. Pharmacodynamic effects of everolimus were determined 
by measuring the activity of the molecular markers S6 (40S) ribosomal protein, 4EBP1, AKT, eIF-4G, 
Page 30 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  Ki67.  The  most  consistent  dose-response  relationship  seen  was  a  decrease  in  the  presence  of 
phospho-S6 kinase and phospho-eIF-4G in tumour biopsies from patients treated with everolimus 10 
mg  daily.  Weekly  dosing  regimen  did  not  show  a  consistent  pattern  of  inhibition  in  the  molecular 
markers. 
However, the effects on molecular markers were not shown as significantly different by dose group 
and the predictive value of molecular markers of mTOR activity were not validated for surrogacy for 
response or duration of PFS in (m)RCC. 
The  response-exposure  relationship  was  explored in study  C2239  where there was  a trend  to  higher 
estimates for PFS in the median Cmin subgroup (10-35 ng/ml) compared to the low Cmin subgroup (<10 
ng/ml) (Table 5). It appears that there was no consistent relation between PFS and Cmin, however, there 
is  some  uncertainty  regarding  whether  Cmin  was  accurately  sampled  in  all  subjects  which  could 
obscure any true relation.  
Table 5 
Analysis of PFS based on central radiological review using K-M method 
by Cmin subgroups – Study C2239 
Analysis of AEs did not demonstrate a consistent correlation between Cmin and AEs.  
Trial  C2118  was  a  single  centre,  blinded,  randomised,  placebo  and  active  controlled,  single  dose 
crossover  study  to  assess  if  everolimus  had  an  effect  on  cardiac  repolarization  in  male  and  female 
healthy volunteers. Overall, the result showed that everolimus had no clinically relevant effect on HR, 
QTcF,  and  other  cardiac  conduction  intervals  (QT,  QTc,  QTcB,  QTcl,  QRS,  RR,  and  PR)  in  adult 
healthy male and female subjects.  
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical efficacy of everolimus in patients with advanced RCC is based on the pivotal phase-III 
study (Study C2240). The development program supporting this indication consisted of 3 dose-finding 
and  phase-I  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  advanced  solid  tumours  ([Study  C2101 
monotherapy/C2102], [Study C2107], and [Study C1101]) (Table 6). There were no phase II studies 
presented in RCC. 
Page 31 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Overview of trial designs in support of the development programme for 
the RCC indication of everolimus 
Study 
Study design, objective, and population 
Efficacy endpoints 
No of patients 
Pivotal, phase-III study 
C2240 
Phase-III randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, efficacy and safety in 
patients with mRCC after failure of VEGFr-
TKI therapy 
Primary: PFS 
Secondary: ORR, 
OS, QoL 
Everolimus 
10 mg 
Total 
272 
  416 
Dose selection trials 
C2101 
Part 1/ 
C2102 
C2107 
Phase-I dose-escalation study in patients 
with advanced solid tumours 
Phase-I investigation of safety, tolerability, 
and molecular pharmacodynamic effects in 
patients with advanced solid tumours 
Phase-I dose-escalation study in Japanese 
patients with advanced solid tumours 
C1101 
ORR 
ORR 
ORR, PFS 
33 
12 
3 
92 
55 
9 
•  Dose response study (ies) 
The  monotherapy  dose  of  10  mg  daily  was  established  from  three  phase-I  clinical  studies  ([Study 
C2101  monotherapy/C2102],  and  [Study  C2107])  that  explored  daily  dosing  with  everolimus 
monotherapy at 5 and 10 mg doses in addition to weekly dosing at 5, 10, 20,  30, 50, and 70 mg in 
patients with advanced solid tumours 18, 19.  
Three  phase  I  dose  finding  studies  (C2101/2,  C2107  and  C1101)  were  investigated  in  patients  with 
advanced solid tumours. A total of 156 patients were treated, 9 of which were from Japan (C1101). 
The  primary  aim  of  studies  C2101/2  and  C2107  were  to  investigate  safety,  tolerability, 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in patients with advanced solid tumours and establish a dose 
and  dose  interval  where  marker  proteins  (p70S6  kinase,  elF-4G  and  4E-BP1  phosphorylation) 
downstream  of  the  main  target  mTOR  were  effectively  inhibited.  Response  according  to  RECIST-
criteria was also recorded. 12 of 147 patients in C2101/2 and C2107 had RCC. Weekly doses of 5, 10, 
20,  30,  50  and  70  mg  and  daily  doses  of  5  and  10  mg  were  tested.  P70S6  kinase  was  inhibited  at 
weekly doses of >20 mg and eIF-4G was inhibited at weekly doses >50 mg or daily doses >10 mg. 
There was a correlation between average plasma Cmin and 4E-BP1 phosphorylation in tumour tissue 
with full inhibition at blood levels above approximately 10 ng/ml (Figure 6). The Cmin after 5 and 10 
mg  was  7.3  ng/ml  (90%  C.I.  5.2-9.4)  and  15.9  ng/ml  (90%  C.I.  8.6-23)  respectively.  In  study 
2101/2102 no dose-limiting toxicity was reported for doses up to 70 mg/weekly and 10 mg daily. 
Figure 6 
Relationship between phospho-4E-BP1 and average everolimus pre-dose 
concentration at steady-state 
18 O’Donnell A, Faivre S, Burris HA, et al (2008). Phase I pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of the 
oral mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor everolimus in patients with advanced solid tumors. J Clin Oncol; 
28(10): 1588-95. 
19 Tabernero J, Rojo F, Calvo E, et al (2008). Dose- and schedule-dependent inhibition of the mammalian target 
of rapamycin pathway with everolimus: a phase I tumor pharmacodynamic pathway study in patients with 
advanced solid tumors. J Clin Oncol; 26: 1603-10. 
Page 32 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
One data point with fraction change from baseline value of 20.5 is not shown in this plot. 
Five of 147 patients in C2101/2 and C2107 had a partial response (PR) (Table 7) and 60 had disease 
stabilisation.  4/12  patients  with  RCC  had  a  disease  stabilisation  and  one  had  a  PR  1/9  patients 
(oesophageal cancer) in the Japanese study had a PR and one (gastric cancer) an unconfirmed PR.  
Table 7  
Best overall tumour response in phase-I dose selection studies – Study 
C2101 monotherapy/C2102 and Study C2107 
Study C2101 monotherapy/C2102 
Objective tumour response rate 
  Complete response 
Partial response 
Disease stabilization 
Progressive disease 
Unknown 
Study 2107 
Objective tumour response rate 
  Complete response 
Partial response 
Disease stabilization 
Progressive disease 
Daily 
5 mg 
n=4 
10 mg 
n=33 
5-30 mg
n=18 
Weekly 
50 mg 
n=6 
70 mg 
n=31 
1 
0 
1 
1 
2 
0 
1 
0 
1 
16 
7 
9 
1 
0 
1 
5 
11 
1 
0 
0 
0 
4 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
16 
10 
4 
Daily 
5 mg 
n=12 
10 mg 
n=11 
20 mg 
n=10 
Weekly 
50 mg 
n=11 
70 mg 
n=5 
0 
0 
0 
5 
7 
0 
0 
0 
4 
7 
Page 33 of 75 
1 
0 
1 
4 
5 
0 
0 
0 
3 
7 
0 
0 
0 
2 
3 
Total 
N=92 
4 
0 
4 
42 
31 
15 
Total 
N=55 
1 
0 
1 
18 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unknown 
Daily 
5 mg 
n=4 
0 
10 mg 
n=33 
0 
5-30 mg
n=18 
0 
Weekly 
50 mg 
n=6 
1 
70 mg 
n=31 
0 
Total 
N=92 
2 
Dose limiting toxicity (4/6) was encountered at 70 mg/week in one study (C2107) while 10 mg daily 
was well tolerated, 2/12 patients had at least one, drug related grade 3 toxicity while there was 1/12 
grade 3 toxicity in the 5 mg daily cohort. The most common grade 3 toxicity was stomatitis. 50/147 
patients had at least one SAE.  
Based on the results of biomarker studies, pharmacokinetic data and tolerability, 10 mg daily flat dose 
was chosen for the confirmatory phase III trial.  
•  Main study (ies)  
Study RAD001C2240 (C2240) - A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter phase 
III study to compare the safety and efficacy of RAD001 plus Best Supportive Care (BSC) versus BSC 
plus  Placebo  in  patients  with  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  kidney  which  has  progressed  on  VEGF 
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion and exclusion criteria in the study protocol included: 
Inclusion criteria:  
•  Patients with metastatic carcinoma and with histological or cytological confirmation of clear cell 
RCC  
•  Patients must have progression on or within 6 months of stopping treatment with a VEGF receptor 
tyrosine  kinase  inhibitor  (sunitinib  and/or  sorafenib).  Patients  may  have  received  one  or  both 
agents. 
•  Prior  therapy  with  cytokines  (i.e.,  IL-2,  Interferon)  and/or  VEGF-ligand  inhibitors  (i.e., 
bevacizumab) are permitted. 
•  Patients  with  at  least  one  measurable  lesion  at  baseline  as  per  the  RECIST  criteria,  either  on 
physical  exam  or  as  determined  by  Computer  Tomography  (CT)  Scan  or  Magnetic  Resonance 
Imaging (MRI). 
•  Patients with a Karnofsky Performance Status ≥  70% 
Exclusion criteria: 
•  Patients currently receiving chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or radio-therapy or who have received 
these ≤ 4 weeks prior to Visit 1. 
•  Patients who have previously received mTOR inhibitors. 
•  Patients receiving chronic treatment with corticosteroids or another immunosuppressive agent 
•  Patients with a known hypersensitivity to RAD001 (everolimus) or other rapamycins (sirolimus, 
temsirolimus) or to its excipients. 
•  Patients  with  untreated  CNS  metastases  or  who  are  neurologically  unstable  despite  treatment  of 
the CNS metastases. (Patients with treated CNS metastases, who are neurologically stable off of 
corticosteroids, are eligible to enter study) 
Treatments 
Two  treatment  arms:  everolimus  10  mg  dose  (two  5  mg  tablets)  plus  Best  Supportive  Care  (BSC)  or 
Matching  Placebo  plus  BSC.  BSC  was  defined  as  drug  and  non-drug  therapies,  nutritional  support, 
and/or physical therapy was allowed during the study. All medications including non-drug therapies 
(physical  therapy,  blood  transfusions  etc.)  taken  prior  and  after  the  start  of  the  study  drug  were 
recorded on the appropriate case report forms (CRFs). 
Page 34 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Best supportive treatments that were permitted during the study included: 
• Bisphosphonate therapy for treatment of bone metastases which had to be started prior to the first 
dose of the study medication. 
• Pain medications to allow the patient to be as comfortable as possible. 
• Localized radiotherapy for the treatment of pre-existing, painful bone metastases was allowed only in 
the absence of radiological progression.  
• Nutritional support as recommended by the investigator. 
• Megestrol acetate could be prescribed as an appetite stimulant.  
• Oxygen therapy and blood transfusions. 
• Leukocyte growth factors (e.g. CSF and GM-CSF) could be prescribed for severe neutropenia. 
The following therapies were not allowed during the entire duration of the study: 
• Other investigational therapies. 
• Other anticancer agents with the exception of study medication. The use of other anticancer agents 
required discontinuation from the study 
The following therapies were to be avoided while on study drug: 
• Drugs or substances known to be inhibitors or inducers or substrates of the isoenzyme CYP3A4 as 
these could alter the metabolism of the study drug. In addition, patients were advised not to drink 
grapefruit juice which is considered to be a potent CYP3A4-inhibitor. 
Everolimus  10  mg  dose  (two  5  mg  tablets)  or  matching  placebo  was  to  be  taken  by  the  patients 
themselves orally daily at once with a glass of water, at the same time each day in a fasting state or 
with  a  light  fat-free  meal.  On  days  when  pharmacokinetic  (drug  concentration  levels)  assessments 
occur, study drug administration was to be supervised by the investigators. 
Detailed  procedures  for  dose  reduction  and  the  management  of  specific  side  affects  were  provided. 
Dose modification guidelines were given on the study protocol for dose reduction in case of toxicity:  
Study drug was to be taken daily until progression or unacceptable toxicity.  
Compliance was to be assessed by the investigator or his/her designee at each visit using pill counts 
and to be captured in the source document at each visit. Drug accountability was to be monitored by 
the field monitors. 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
•  To compare progression-free survival (PFS) in patients who receive everolimus plus BSC versus 
patients who receive Matching Placebo plus BSC. 
Secondary objectives 
•  To  compare  the  overall  survival  (OS)  for  patients  who  received  everolimus  plus  BSC  versus 
Matching Placebo plus BSC 
•  To  compare the  objective response  rate  (ORR)  and  duration in  patients  who  receive  everolimus 
plus BSC versus Matching Placebo plus BSC 
•  To describe the safety profile of everolimus versus Placebo 
•  To  assess  disease-related  symptoms  (DRS)  and  overall  quality  of  life  (QoL)  in  patients  treated 
with everolimus plus BSC and to compare their reported outcomes to the Matching Placebo plus 
BSC treatment group. 
•  To describe the pharmacokinetics (PK) of everolimus in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer 
(mRCC). 
•  To explore the relationships between everolimus blood levels and efficacy/safety endpoints. 
Page 35 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  number  of  exploratory  objectives  were  included  such  as  mutation  analysis  of  PI3KCA,  and 
immunohistochemistry  evaluation  of  PTEN,  pS6,  and  pAKT,  characterization  of  VHL  tumour 
suppressor and Glut-1 glucose transporter levels and changes from baseline in secreted VEGF, bFGF, 
PLGF, VEGFR2 and LDH total in serum samples. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
For  the  evaluation  of  the  primary  endpoint,  PFS  and  the  secondary  endpoint  ORR,  the  tumour 
response and progression was assessed using the RECIST Criteria Guidelines. The primary endpoint 
was  defined  as  the  time  from  the  date  of  randomisation  to  the  date  of  the  first  documented  disease 
progression or death due to any cause. The primary analysis of PFS was based on central radiological 
assessments.  The  assessment  was  done  independently  at  the  site  (by  a  local  radiologist)  and  by  the 
central  radiology  review.  A  CT  Scan  of  the  Chest,  Abdomen  and  Pelvis  (CAP)  obtained  within  2 
weeks of the first dose of the study medication was used as the baseline tumour assessment. Tumour 
response was assessed every 8 weeks (±1 week) during the first year of treatment and every 12 weeks 
(±1 week) during and after the second year of treatment. The methods of tumour assessment were CT 
Scans or MRIs with contrast. Patients who were allergic to radiographic contrast media were permitted 
to  have  a  CT  scan  of  the  chest  without  contrast  and  an  MRI  of  the  abdomen  and  pelvis  without 
contrast. 
Health-related  QoL  was  assessed  via  two  independent,  reliable,  and  validated  tools  (European 
Organization  for  the  Research  and  Treatment  of  Cancer  [EORTC]  QLQ-C30  [Version  3.0]  and 
Functional  Assessment  of  Cancer  Therapy  Kidney  Symptom  Index  –  Disease-Related  Symptoms 
[FKSI-DRS]).  The  EORTC  instrument  assesses the  patients’  symptoms,  functional  status,  and  QoL, 
while the FKSI-DRS evaluates symptoms related to renal cancer. 
Sample size 
An unstratified 1-sided sequential log-rank score test with a cumulative type I error of α=0.025 and a 
cumulative power 1-β= 90% was used for a 3-look group sequential plan. Assuming a hazard ratio of 
1.5  (corresponding  to  a  median  PFS  of  3  months  for  the  Placebo  plus  BSC  and  4.5  months  for 
everolimus  plus  BSC),  and  using  a  2:1  randomisation  to  everolimus  vs.  Placebo  a  total  of  290  PFS 
events were required. Considering a recruitment time of 16 months and an additional follow-up of 5 
months, a total of 362 patients were required. This number included the assumption that about 10% of 
patients are lost to follow-up during the study. 
Randomisation 
The  randomisation  was  performed  by  an  Interactive  Voice  Response  System  (IVRS),  the 
randomisation ratio was 2:1, with two patients randomly assigned to everolimus treatment for every 
one  patient  randomly  assigned  to  Placebo.  Randomisation  was  stratified  by  prior  VEGFR  therapy 
taken by the patient prior to study entry (one vs. two VEGFR TKIs, namely sunitinib and sorafenib) 
and  by  3  Risk  factors (Memorial  Sloan Kettering  Cancer  Center/MSKCC)  which  are  believed to  be 
associated with survival: 
• Low Karnofsky Performance Status (< 80%), 
• Low haemoglobin (≤ 13 g/dl for males and ≤ 11.5 g/dl for females) 
• High corrected serum calcium (≥  10 mg/dl). 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was conducted as a double-blind study. Patients randomised to the placebo group received 
matching  placebos  that  identically  appeared  in  tablet  size,  colour,  unit  dose,  label  and  packaging.  The 
protocol allowed for unblinding on an individual patient basis in the case of documented progression 
(as  assessed  locally).  Patients  randomised  to  placebo  could  crossover  to  open-label  everolimus.  An 
extension study was set up to enrol patients treated with everolimus when the core study was stopped 
due to meeting the statistically defined primary efficacy endpoint of PFS at either of the two planned 
interim analyses. As a consequence, some members of the Novartis clinical team became unblinded at 
the  first  occurrence  of  disease  progression.  The  independent  Central  Radiologists,  ICON  Medical 
Imaging, remained blinded to the identity of the treatment assignment.  
Page 36 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All patients enrolled in the extension study continue to have safety and efficacy assessments until 
disease progression. 
Statistical methods 
The primary endpoint was PFS, defined as the time from the date of randomisation to the date of the 
first documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Assessment of PFS was based on the 
central radiological assessment on the FAS/ITT population. The Full Analysis Set (FAS population) 
was  defined  as  all  randomised  patients.  Following  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  principle,  patients  were 
analyzed according to the treatment and stratum they were assigned to at randomisation. The primary 
statistical analysis to compare PFS was performed using a one-sided log-rank test stratified by strata 
defined by the MSKCC risk criteria. The hazard ratio of the treatment effect estimated in a stratified 
Cox proportional hazard model, using the strata defined by the MSKCC criteria, was provided with 
two-sided 95% confidence interval. 
The secondary endpoints (OS, ORR, and the three PROs: FKSI-DRS, PF and global QL) were tested 
in a hierarchical testing order adjusting for multiple testing with a gate keeping strategy to control the 
multiple significance level at 2.5%. 
Two interim analyses were prospectively planned that allowed for stopping on the grounds of futility 
or  outstanding  efficacy.  A  group  sequential  design  was  implemented  using  a  spending  function 
approach for both futility and efficacy. A conservative approach was adopted where the derivation of 
efficacy  boundaries  was  not  affected  by  the  presence  of  the  futility  stopping  rule.  The  procedure 
selected ensured that the overall probability of type-I error was controlled at the desired level. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Figure 7 shows the participant flow: 
Figure 7 
Patient disposition in the pivotal trial for the full analysis set – Study 
C2240 
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Page 37 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
416 patients with advanced, clear-cell RCC at 88 centers in 10 countries were recruited and entered 
into the study. No single center enrolled >24 patients. The first patient was included Dec 6, 2006 and 
the study was stopped on 28 February 2008. Cut-off date for the 2nd interim analysis was 15 October 
2007. 
Conduct of the study 
Two  interim  analyses  were  planned  in  the  protocol:  the  first  interim  analysis  was  planned  after 
observing  approximately  30%  (~87  PFS  events)  and  the  second  after  observing  approximately  60% 
(~174 PFS events), of the targeted number of 290 PFS events (per central radiology review) required 
for the final statistical analysis. Both interim analyses were to allow for stopping for lack of efficacy 
(futility) and for outstanding efficacy. Formal testing of the primary PFS endpoint was not performed 
at the first interim analysis as the main intention had been to investigate futility and nearly all patients 
had been enrolled by this time. This first interim analysis focused on safety and overall survival only. 
This was decided prior to the planned analysis and endorsed by the IDMC. As no formal testing of the 
primary  endpoint  was  performed  and  no  PFS  data  were  available  for  this  first  interim  analysis,  this 
could be implemented without spending any of the type-I error. The IDMC reviewed the first interim 
results and recommended that the trial continue as planned without change. 
As per protocol, the second interim analysis was conducted after approximately 60% of the targeted 
290 PFS events (as per central radiology) required for the final statistical analysis were observed, i.e. 
after approximately 174 PFS events. The actual number of centrally assessed PFS events observed as 
of the cut-off date (15 October 2007) and included in the analysis was 191 (or 66% of the targeted 290 
events). Four hundred ten patients were randomised to treatment prior to this data cut-off. The efficacy 
boundary corresponding to this event-based information fraction was 0.0057 on the p-value scale (2.53 
on the Z-statistic scale). This predefined efficacy stopping boundary was crossed at the second interim 
analysis: results from the stratified log-rank test were p=1.1 x 10-16 and Z=8.22. As these values were 
below the predefined threshold, the null hypothesis was rejected and the primary objective of the trial 
was met. The IDMC recommended the early termination of the study on 25 February 2008. The IDMC 
stated that the improvement in PFS was seen across all subsets of patients, including the favourable-, 
intermediate-, and poor-risk prognostic categories defined by the MSKCC criteria. The Study Steering 
Committee subsequently endorsed this recommendation, and the trial was unblinded on 28 February 
2008.  
The assessment is based on the study report from the 2nd interim analysis and the efficacy update from 
August 2008. 
There  were  two  amendments  to  the  study  made:  the  first  one  on  19  October  2006,  before  the  first 
patient  was  included.  The  second  amendment  was  on  28  February  2007,  when  58  patients  were 
included. There were no changes to the planned analyses. 
The  Safety  population  was  defined  as  all  patients  who  received  at least one  dose  of  study  drug  and 
who had at least one valid post-baseline safety assessment. 
The open-label period population included only patients who received at least one dose of open-label 
everolimus and had at least one safety or efficacy assessment during the open-label period. 
Baseline data 
There were 272 patients assigned to treatment with everolimus and 138 patients were randomised to 
placebo. The major baseline characteristics are provided in the Table 8, 9, 10. 
Table 8 
 Demographic characteristics in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Demographic characteristic 
Age (years) 
  Mean (standard deviation) 
  Median 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=272 
60.6 (10.4) 
61.0 
Page 38 of 75 
Placebo 
N=138 
59.3 (9.6) 
60.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic characteristic 
  Range 
Age group (years) (n [%]) 
<65 years 
≥65 years 
Gender (n [%]) 
  Male 
Female 
Race (n [%]) 
  Caucasian 
  Asian 
  Black 
  Native American 
  Other 
  Missing 
Ethnicity (n [%]) 
  Other a 
  Hispanic/Latino 
Japanese 
Indian (Indian subcontinent) 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=272 
27 to 85 
162 
110 
212 
60 
246 
11 
2 
1 
8 
4 
(59.6) 
(40.4) 
(77.9) 
(22.1) 
(90.4) 
(4.0) 
(0.7) 
(0.4) 
(2.9) 
(1.5) 
Placebo 
N=138 
29 to 79 
97 
41 
(70.3) 
(29.7) 
105 
33 
(76.1) 
(23.9) 
121 
10 
3 
0 
3 
1 
(87.7) 
(7.2) 
(2.2) 
(2.2) 
(0.7) 
218 
14 
10 
1 
1 
28 
(80.1) 
(5.1) 
(3.7) 
(0.4) 
(0.4) 
(10.3) 
110 
3 
8 
1 
1 
15 
(79.7) 
(2.2) 
(5.8) 
(0.7) 
(0.7) 
(10.9) 
  Mixed 
  Missing 
a Other includes all individuals who were not assigned to a specific ethnicity category (e.g., Chinese, Hispanic/Latino, Indian, 
Japanese, Mixed, etc) 
Table 9 
Previous disease-related in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Previous treatments 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=272 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=138 
n (%) 
Antineoplastic therapy 
Radiotherapy 
Surgery 
Prior medications 
Targeted therapy 
  VEGFr-TKI 
Sunitinib only 
Sorafenib only 
  Both sunitinib and sorafenib 
EGFR TKI 
Immunotherapy 
  Chemotherapy 
  Hormonal therapy 
  Other 
272 
83 
262 
272 
272 
124 
77 
71 
5 
174 
36 
5 
15 
(100.0) 
(30.5) 
(96.3) 
(100.0) 
(100.0) 
(45.6) 
(28.3) 
(26.1) 
(1.8) 
(64.0) 
(13.2) 
(1.8) 
(5.5) 
138 
38 
131 
138 
138 
60 
42 
36 
7 
91 
22 
5 
4 
(100.0) 
(27.5) 
(94.9) 
(100.0) 
(100.0) 
(43.5) 
(30.4) 
(26.1) 
(5.1) 
(65.9) 
(15.9) 
(3.6) 
(2.9) 
The majority of patients in both treatment groups had progressed either while still receiving VEGFR-
TKI therapy or within 1 week of discontinuing treatment (70.9% versus 79.0% for the everolimus and 
placebo treatment groups, respectively). 
Page 39 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 
Patient characteristics in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Patient characteristic 
Karnofsky performance status 
100 
90 
80 
70 
  Missing 
MSKCC prognostic score 
Favorable risk 
Intermediate risk 
Poor risk 
Histologic grade 
  Well differentiated 
  Moderately differentiated 
Poorly differentiated 
  Undifferentiated 
  Unknown 
Time from initial diagnosis 
≤6 months 
>6 months to ≤12 months 
>12 months to ≤24 months 
>24 months 
  Missing 
Number of organs involved 
1 
2 
3 
4 
>4 
Organ type involved 
Lymph nodes 
Lung 
  Bone 
Liver 
  Kidney 
  CNS 
  Other 
Study included: [Study C2240] 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=272 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=138 
n (%) 
75 
98 
70 
28 
1 
79 
153 
40 
21 
56 
83 
17 
95 
6 
19 
67 
180 
0 
26 
67 
87 
59 
29 
203 
199 
100 
94 
31 
15 
134 
(27.6) 
(36.0) 
(25.7) 
(10.3) 
(0.4) 
(29.0) 
(56.3) 
(14.7) 
(7.7) 
(20.6) 
(30.5) 
(6.3) 
(34.9) 
(2.2) 
(7.0) 
(24.6) 
(66.2) 
(9.6) 
(24.6) 
(32.0) 
(21.7) 
(10.7) 
(74.6) 
(73.2) 
(36.8) 
(34.6) 
(11.4) 
(5.5) 
(49.3) 
38 
53 
30 
15 
0 
39 
78 
21 
10 
31 
40 
9 
48 
3 
5 
28 
98 
4 
14 
35 
41 
30 
15 
98 
112 
43 
49 
16 
11 
57 
(29.0) 
(38.4) 
(21.7) 
(10.9) 
(28.3) 
(56.5) 
(15.2) 
(7.2) 
(22.5) 
(29.0) 
(6.5) 
(34.8) 
(2.2) 
(3.6) 
(20.3) 
(71.0) 
(2.9) 
(10.1) 
(25.4) 
(29.7) 
(21.7) 
(10.9) 
(71.0) 
(81.2) 
(31.2) 
(35.5) 
(11.6) 
(8.0) 
(41.3) 
The treatment arms were balanced for the relevant demographic factors and disease characteristics and 
previous treatments. Approximately 37% of the patients were aged ≥65 years and three-quarters of the 
patients were male, reflecting the higher incidence of RCC among men, and the majority of patients 
(89.5%)  were  Caucasian,  reflecting  the  countries  that  participated  in  the  study.  All  patients  had 
advanced disease with time from initial diagnosis of 2 years or longer for the majority, most patients 
presented with 3 or more involved organs. All patients had received at least one prior VEGFR-TKI-
based regimen. Approximately 50%, 20%, and 10% of patients from the two treatment groups had also 
received prior therapy with IFN-α, IL-2, and bevacizumab, respectively. 
Numbers analysed 
Page 40 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy analysis is based on all randomised patients. Patients who did not receive everolimus are 
excluded  from  the  safety  analysis.  In  total,  as  the  cut-off  date  of  October  2007,  277  patients  were 
assigned to everolimus and 139 patients were assigned to placebo. 
Table 11 
Analysis population by treatment – Study C2240 
Per  study  protocol,  the  second  interim  analysis  was  conducted  after  approximately  174  PFS  events 
(approximately 60% of the targeted 290 PFS events) were observed by central radiology as required 
for the final statistical analysis. The cut-off date for the second interim analysis was determined using 
a statistical prediction model based on PFS events per the investigator. The actual number of centrally 
assessed  PFS  events  observed  as  of the cut-off  date (15  October  2007)  and  included in the analysis 
was 191 PFS events (or 66% of the targeted 290 PFS events). The efficacy boundary corresponding to 
this event-based information fraction was 0.0057 on the p-value scale (2.53 on the Z-statistic scale). 
The updated analysis per central review is based on 266 events (everolimus: 155 events; placebo: 111 
events).  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: Progression-free survival 
The  primary  statistical  analysis  to  compare  PFS  of  everolimus-treated  group  with  placebo-treated 
group was performed using a one-sided log-rank test stratified by three strata defined by the MSKCC 
risk criteria. In the interim analysis conducted with a cut-off date of 15 October 2007, the median PFS 
was 4.01 months in the everolimus group (95% CI 3.71-5.52 months) and 1.87 months in the placebo 
group (95% CI, 1.81 to 1.94 months) with HR of 0.30 (95% CI 0.22-0.40). In the final analysis with a 
cut-off date of 28 February 2008, which included 6 patients more than the interim analysis, the median 
PFS was 4.90 months in the everolimus group (95% CI 3.98- 5.52) and 1.87 months in the placebo 
group  (95%  CI  1.84-1.94)  with  a  HR  of  0.3  (95%  CI  0.25-0.43),  resulting  in  a  difference  of 
approximately 3 months (Figure 8). The calculated P-value was p<0.001, which was smaller than the 
required  efficacy  stopping  boundary  of  p=0.005747.  The  IDMC  reviewed  the  results  together  with 
secondary endpoints and recommended early stopping the study after the second interim analysis.  
The  estimated  hazard  ratio  of  the  treatment  effect  of  everolimus  versus  placebo  obtained  from  a 
stratified Cox proportional hazard model using the same strata as the log-rank test was HR 0.33 (95% 
CI 0.25-0.43). 
Page 41 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 
Kaplan-Meier probability of progression-free survival by independent 
central review in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Table 12 
Progression-free survival event categories by independent central review 
in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
PFS event categories 
No of PFS events 
Progression 
  Death 
Censored 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=277 
n (%) 
155 
134 
21 
122 
(56.0) 
(48.4) 
(7.6) 
(44.0) 
Placebo 
N=139 
n (%) 
111 
103 
8 
28 
(79.9) 
(74.1) 
(5.8) 
(20.1) 
As shown in Table 12, the pattern of censoring was not uniform between the arms. As expected, more 
patients  were  censored  in  the  everolimus-treatment  arm  because  they  were  ongoing  without  event 
while relatively more patients were censored in the placebo-treatment arm because of new anticancer 
treatment in the control arm (Table 13). The decision to change therapy was based on the investigator 
assessment of progress which sometimes was not in concordance with the central radiological review.  
Table 13 
Summary of the censoring reasons for PFS based on central radiology 
review, by treatment – Study C2240.  
Reason for Censoring  
Everolimus 10mg/day   Placebo (plus BSC)  
(plus BSC) 
N=272  
n (%)  
N=138  
n (%) 
Total number of censored patients  
Ongoing without event  
Lost to follow-up  
Withdrew consent  
Adequate assessment no longer available  
New cancer therapy added  
171 (62.9%)  
133 (77.8%)  
2 (1.2%)  
6 (3.5%)  
8 (4.7%)  
22 (12.9%)  
48 (34.8%) 
24 (50.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (8.3%) 
20 (41.7%)  
Page 42 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint: Overall survival (OS) 
The study design permitted the crossover of patients initially randomised to placebo to everolimus at 
the  time  of  progression.  The  study  design  prevents  the  study  from  being  powered  to  detect  any 
difference in terms of OS. No statistically significant difference relative to placebo was evident for OS 
between  the  two  treatments  (p=0.137)  (Table  14).  A  trend  in  favour  of  everolimus  was  observed 
(HR 0.82;  95%  CI  0.57-1.17;  p=0.137).  The  Kaplan-Meier  plots  for  both  treatments  are  in  parallel 
(Figure 9).  From the updated results provided with a data cut-off of 15 November 2008, 283 patients 
out  of  416  patients  randomised  to  everolimus  were  censored  for  survival  analysis.  There  were  281 
patients known to be alive at the time of data cut-off. From the 33 patients that did not crossover to 
everolimus therapy, 18 patients were known to have died with a median survival of 5.2 months.  
Table 14 
Comparison of overall survival between everolimus and placebo in pivotal 
phase III trial for the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Overall survival 
Number (%) of deaths 
Placebo 
N=139 
Everolimus 
N=277 
Primary analysis 
a Cox model; b One-sided stratified log-rank test 
85 (30.7) 
48 (34.5) 
Comparison between groups 
95% CI a 
p-value b 
Hazard  
ratio a 
0.82 
0.57 to 1.17 
0.137 
Figure 9 
Overall survival probability in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Secondary endpoint: Objective response rate 
A very low response rate was observed and no difference in ORR (CR + PR) was apparent between 
the  two  treatment  arms.  Objective  response,  based  on  RECIST  criteria,  was  documented  in  only  5 
patients corresponding to 1.8% (95% CI: 0.6-4.2%) of patients receiving everolimus therapy vs 0% for 
placebo (Table 15). 
Page 43 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 
Summary of best overall response in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Objective tumour response rate 
  Complete response 
Partial response 
Disease stabilisation 
Progressive disease 
Unknown 
(1.8) 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=279 
n (%) 
5 
0 
5 
185 
57 
30 
(1.8) 
(66.8) 
(20.6) 
(10.8) 
Placebo 
N=139 
n (%) 
0 
0 
0 
45 
74 
20 
(32.4) 
(53.2) 
(14.4) 
Secondary endpoint: Patient reported outcome  
Functional  Assessment  of  Cancer  Therapy  Kidney  Symptom  Index  –  Disease-Related  Symptoms 
(FKSI-DRS)20  was  chosen  as  the  primary  endpoint  for  patients  reported  outcome.    No  statistically 
significant  differences  were  evident  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  time  to  definitive 
deterioration  of  patient-reported  outcomes  (where  definitive  deterioration  was  determined  by  pre-
established  criteria  for  clinically  meaningful  changes)  (Figure  10).  Compliance,  with  regard  to 
completed questionnaires, was low for the two treatment arms, with a level >60% until the fourth post-
baseline assessment window.  There was no detrimental effect observed when a second QoL tool was 
used.  
Figure 10 
Time to deterioration in FKSI-DRS risk score – Study C2240 
20 Cella D, Yount S, Brucker PS, et al. (2007). Development and validation of a scale to measure disease-related 
symptoms of kidney cancer. Value Health; 10:285-93. 
Page 44 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Figure 11 
Definitive deterioration of the physical functioning scale score of the 
EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire – Study C2240 
European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-30 (Version 3.0) 21 
(EORTC  QLQ-C30)  was  chosen  to  measure  QoL  as  assessed  for  disease-related  symptoms.  No 
significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  time  to  definitive 
deterioration of the physical functioning or general health status/QoL subscales (Figure 11).  
Ancillary analyses 
Supportive and sensitivity analyses of PFS 
A number of supportive and sensitivity analyses of PFS were presented which are well in line with the 
primary analysis. 
Supportive  analyses  of  PFS  were  performed    to  investigate  the  homogeneity  of  the  treatment  effect 
across  prespecified  patient  subgroups  defined  by  the  MSKCC  risk  factors  (i.e.  “favourable” 
corresponds to 1 risk factor, “intermediate” corresponds to 2 risk factors and “poor” corresponds to 3 
risk factors). The proportion of patients with a PFS event was lower in the favourable MSKCC risk 
group treated with everolimus compared with placebo treatment (Table 16). 
Table 16 
Comparison of PFS between everolimus and placebo by stratum by 
independent central review in the full analysis set – Study C2240 
Category 
MSKCC prognostic score 
  Favorable risk (n=120) 
Intermediate risk (n=235) 
Poor risk (n=61) 
Number (%) of patients 
with PFS event 
Everolimus 
Placebo 
Comparison between groups 
Hazard 
ratio a 
95% CI a 
p-value b 
39 (48.1) 
90 (57.7) 
26 (65.0) 
33 (84.6) 
61 (77.2) 
17 (81.0) 
0.31 
0.32 
0.44 
0.19 to 0.50 
0.22 to 0.44 
0.22 to 0.85 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.007 
21  Aaronson  NK,  Ahmedzai  A,  Bergman  B,  et  al.  (1993).  The  European  Organization  for  Research  and 
Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30: a quality-of-life instrument for use in international clinical trials in oncology. J 
Natl Cancer Inst; 85:365-76. 
Page 45 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Category 
Number (%) of patients 
with PFS event 
Everolimus 
Placebo 
Comparison between groups 
Hazard 
ratio a 
95% CI a 
p-value b 
a Cox model; b One-sided unstratified log-rank test 
Time  to  deterioration  in  KPS  score  was  prolonged  for  patients  receiving  everolimus  therapy  with  a 
34% risk reduction observed, corresponding to a hazard ratio of 0.66 (95% CI: 0.49 to 0.90; p=0.004) 
(Figure 12).  The median time to definitive deterioration of KPS was 5.78 months for the everolimus 
arm and 3.84 months for placebo.  Prolonged time to deterioration in KPS score for patients receiving 
everolimus  may  be  considered  beneficial  for  the  patient  although  bias  due  to  knowledge  about 
progression cannot be ruled out. 
Figure 12 
Time to deterioration in KPS score – Study C2240 
Deterioration  was  determined  by  pre-established  criteria  (by  ≥1  category,  i.e.,  ≥10-point  reduction  from 
baseline). One-sided stratified log-rank test and stratified Cox model using strata defined by MSKCC prognostic 
score 
A subgroup analysis based major demographic subgroups, including age (<65 years, ≥65 years), prior 
antineoplastic  therapy  (sunitinib,  sorafenib,  or  both  sunitinib  and  sorafenib),  and  Memorial  Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) prognostic score categories (favourable-, intermediate-, and poor-
risk groups) showed no major differences in HR (Figure 13).  
Page 46 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13 
Sensitivity analysis of treatment effect in progression-free survival for 
patient subgroups – Study C2240 
Subgroup analysis results are based on the central radiology review with the exception of the row labelled 
‘Investigator Review’ 
The individual dots represent the point estimates for the hazard ratio and the horizontal line the corresponding 
95% confidence intervals 
Data cut-off: 15 October 2007 
Missing tumour assessments 
Pre-defined  sensitivity  analyses  of  PFS  based  on  central  radiology  review  were  performed  using 
“actual event” and “backdating” approach in handling missing tumour assessments.  
For the interim analysis, the hazard ratio was 0.30 for the primary analysis and for the “actual event” 
sensitivity analysis and 0.29 for the “backdating sensitivity” analysis. The mean PFS was 4.01 versus 
1.87  months  (HR  0.3)  in  the  primary  analysis  and  3.98  versus  1.87  months  (HR  0.29)  for  the 
“backdating  analysis”  for  everolimus  and  placebo,  respectively.  The  difference  was  statistically 
significant in each analysis with a p-value <0.001. For the final analysis the hazard ratio was 0.33 for 
the  primary  analysis  and  for  the  “actual  event”  sensitivity  analysis  and  0.32  for  the  “backdating 
sensitivity”  analysis.    The  median  PFS  for  the  everolimus  group  was  4.90  months  for  the  primary 
analysis  and  the  “actual event” sensitivity  analysis  and  4.30  months for  the  “backdating  sensitivity” 
analysis.  The  median  PFS  was  1.87  months  for  the  placebo  group  in  each  of  these  analyses.  The 
difference was statistically significant in each analysis with a p-value <0.001. 
Investigator assessment 
Analysis of PFS was also performed using the investigator’s assessments. For the interim analysis, the 
median  PFS  was  4.57  months  in  the  everolimus  group  (95%  CI,  3.91-5.52)  and  1.84  months  in  the 
placebo group (95% CI, 1.81-1.94).  The calculated p-value of one-sided stratified log-rank test is p < 
0.001, and the HR is 0.31 (95% CI 0.24-0.41). For the final analysis, the median PFS was 5.49 months 
in the everolimus group (95% CI, 4.63-5.82 months) and 1.87 months in the placebo group (95% CI, 
1.84-2.23  months). The calculated p-value of one-sided stratified log-rank test is p < 0.001, and the 
HR is 0.32 (95% CI, 0.25-0.41). 
An additional pre-defined sensitivity analysis of PFS was performed by combining events from both 
central radiology review and investigator. 
Page 47 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
For the interim analysis the median PFS was 3.61 months in the everolimus group (95% CI, 3.19-3.84) 
and  1.84  months  in  the  placebo  group  (95%  CI,  1.77-1.87).  The  calculated  p-value  of  one-sided 
stratified  log-rank  test  is  p  <  0.001,  and  the  hazard  ratio  is  0.34 (95%  CI  0.26-0.45).  For  the  final 
analysis,  the  PFS  was  3.75  months  in  the  everolimus  group  (95%  CI,  3.55-4.11  months)  and  1.84 
months  in  the  placebo  group  (95%  CI,  1.77-1.87  months).  The  calculated  p-value  of  one-sided 
stratified log-rank test is p < 0.001, and the HR is 0.38 (95% CI, 0.30-0.47). 
Exploratory analyses 
Prolonged  PFS  on  open-label  everolimus  is  believed  to  confound  the  OS  result.  A  retrospective 
analysis of the 106 placebo patients that crossed-over to everolimus therapy indicated that median PFS 
while they received placebo was 1.87 months.  Following crossover to everolimus, median PFS was 
5.09 months for this same cohort (Table 17). This compares to the median PFS of 5.49 for everolimus 
and 1.87 for placebo as per investigator assessment in the double blind phase. 
Table 17 
Summary of PFS statistics by investigator assessment – Study C2240 
Parameter 
Double-blind phase 
Median PFS (months) 
95% CI 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=277 
5.49 
(4.63 to 5.82) 
Placebo 
N=139 
1.87 
(1.84 to 2.23) 
Open-label phase 
Everolimus 10 mg a
N=106 
5.09 
(3.71 to 7.56) 
95% CI 
4-month PFS rate (%) 
6-month PFS rate (%) 
62.7 
(56.7 to 68.6) 
41.8 
(35.4 to 48.2) 
17.7 
(9.9 to 25.6) 
a Includes only placebo patients who crossed-over to receive treatment with open-label everolimus 
19.4 
(12.7 to 26.1) 
8.6 
(3.6 to 13.6) 
NA 
- 
54.3 
(43.0 to 65.5) 
46.3 
(34.2 to 58.3) 
NA 
- 
12-month PFS rate (%) 
95% CI 
95% CI 
An additional post-hoc exploratory analysis of OS was performed where placebo-treated patients were 
censored at the time of crossover (Figure 14). The HR was 0.76 (95% CI 0.46-1.27; p=0.146). 
Page 48 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14 
Summary of overall survival in the ITT population and censoring at the 
time of crossover – Study C2240 
P-values based on one-sided  stratified log-rank test and hazard ratios obtained from stratified Cox  model both 
using data defined by MSKCC prognostic score. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
There were no pooled analyses performed. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Clinical efficacy was not investigated in patients with hepatic and renal impairment.  
•  Supportive study (ies) 
There are no phase II studies submitted by the applicant for the applied indication. The anti-tumour 
efficacy of everolimus in the target population was initially demonstrated in 5 of 12 patients with RCC 
enrolled into two phase-I studies22. 
Two  sequential  cohorts  of  patients  with  mRCC  recruited  to  a  phase  II  investigator-initiated  trial 
subsequently reported response rates or 15-32 %.  This information is based on abstracts only. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy   
22 Porter LL, Burris A, Jones SF, et al (2006). Summary of results in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer 
(RCC) for phase I studies of RAD001 (everolimus). J Clin Oncol; 24(18 Suppl): abstract 14599. 
Page 49 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The  pharmacokinetics  of  everolimus,  have  been  investigated  as  an  immunosuppressant  medicinal 
product. The higher dosage of everolimus administered as an anticancer medicinal product (10 mg per 
day vs. 0.75 bid) does not change the main properties and principles which are already known. 
After  oral  administration,  in  patients  with  advanced  solid  tumours,  peak  everolimus  concentrations 
(Cmax)  are  reached  at  a  median  time  of  1 hour  after  daily  administration  of  5  and  10 mg  everolimus 
under fasting conditions or with a light fat-free snack. Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 and 10 mg. 
Everolimus is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of PgP. There is a food effect on Cmax but not AUC 
suggesting that everolimus can be administered both in the fast and fed state. In healthy subjects, high 
fat  meals  reduced  systemic  exposure  to  everolimus  10 mg  (as  measured  by  AUC)  by  22%  and  the 
peak  plasma  concentration  Cmax  by  54%.  Light  fat  meals  reduced  AUC  by  32%  and  Cmax  by  42%. 
Food,  however, had  no  apparent  effect  on the  post  absorption  phase concentration-time  profile. The 
recommended  dose  adjustments  were  aimed  at  a  Cmin  of  10  µg/ml  for  clinical  situations  where  co-
administration of inhibitors/inducers of CYP3A4 or PgP cannot be avoided. The dose recommendation 
was based on PK modelling. Thus the lack of any “target” Cmin level for specific therapeutic situations 
where  unavoidable  co-administration  of  moderate  to  strong  inhibitors/inducers  of  CYP3A4  and/or 
hepatic 
issue  was  resolved  by 
recommendations in the SPC in section 4.4 and 4.5 and to “contraindicate” the use of everolimus in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C). Further follow-up measures were introduced 
to  determine  reasonable  target  for  means  of  dose  adjustment  in  case  of  non-avoidable  co-
administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers. 
impairment  for  everolimus,  was  of  major  concern.  This 
In the absence of an intravenous administration form, lower limits of absolute bioavailability estimates 
are 5% and 11% which are based on a mass balance trial. As about 60% of the radioactivity absorbed 
is due to metabolites, and taking into account a) the exclusive metabolic elimination of everolimus, b) 
the  long  elimination half-life,  and c) the  even longer elimination half-life  of  metabolites, it  must  be 
assumed that a relevant part of the metabolites in the circulation are due to absorption of metabolites 
from  the  gut.  Everolimus  should  be  administered  orally  once-daily  at  the  same  time  every  day, 
consistently either with or without food (see SPC section 5.2). Everolimus tablets should be swallowed 
whole  with  a  glass  of  water.  The  tablets  should  not  be  chewed  or  crushed.  If  a  dose  is  missed,  the 
patient should not take an additional dose, but take the usual prescribed next dose. 
The  PK  is  linear  in  the  dose  range  investigated.  After  administration  of  everolimus  in  patients  with 
advanced solid tumours, steady-state AUC0-τ was dose-proportional over the range of 5 to 10 mg daily 
dose.  Steady-state  was  achieved  within  two  weeks.  Cmax  is  dose-proportional  between  5  and  10 mg. 
tmax occurs at 1 to 2 hours post-dose. There was a significant correlation between AUC0-τ and pre-dose 
trough concentration at steady-state. 
The  blood-to-plasma  ratio  of  everolimus,  which  is  concentration-dependent  over  the  range  of  5  to 
5,000 ng/ml  is  17%  to 73%.  Approximately  20%  of  the  everolimus  concentration  in  whole  blood  is 
confined  to  plasma  of  cancer  patients  given  everolimus  10 mg/day.  Plasma  protein  binding  is 
approximately  74%  both  in  healthy  subjects  and  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  In 
patients with advanced solid tumours, Vd was 191 L for the apparent central compartment and 517 L 
for  the  apparent  peripheral  compartment.  Blood  cells  are  a  relevant  compartment  of  everolimus 
distribution and distribution into blood cells is a saturable process at therapeutic doses as blood cell-to-
plasma ratio decrease with increasing concentrations of everolimus. 
Mean CL/F of everolimus after 10 mg daily dose in patients with advanced solid tumours was 24.5 l/h. 
The mean elimination half-life of everolimus is approximately 30 hours. 
No  specific  excretion  studies  have  been  undertaken  in  cancer  patients;  however,  data  are  available 
from the studies in transplant patients. Following the administration of a single dose of radiolabelled 
everolimus in conjunction with cyclosporin, 80% of the radioactivity was recovered from the faeces, 
while 5% was excreted in the urine. The parent substance was not detected in urine or faeces. Thus, 
everolimus  is  excreted  nearly  exclusively  by  hepatic  elimination  and  in  the  faeces.  There  is  a 
negligible amount found in urine. 
Page 50 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 but no specific interaction studies were reported with CYP3A4 
substrates  and  everolimus  other  than  a  clinically  relevant  interaction  with  ketoconazole.  Since 
potential interaction  is  limited  primarily  to  co-administration  with  CYP3A4  inhibitors, the  applicant 
has  committed  to  submit  a  follow-up  study  on  the  effect  of  everolimus  on  orally  administered 
midazolam,  a  CYP3A4  substrate.  Following  oral  administration,  everolimus  is  the  main  circulating 
component in human blood. Six main metabolites of everolimus have been detected in human blood, 
including  three  monohydroxylated  metabolites,  two  hydrolytic  ring-opened  products,  and  a 
phosphatidylcholine conjugate of everolimus. These metabolites were also identified in animal species 
used  in  toxicity  studies,  and  showed  approximately  100 times  less  activity  than  everolimus  itself. 
Hence, everolimus is considered to contribute the majority of the overall pharmacological activity of 
everolimus.  A  target  exposure  for  therapeutic  drug  monitoring  was  discussed  and  proposed  by  the 
CHMP as altered exposure is expected when everolimus is co-administered with interacting agents. As 
a follow-up  measure reasonable target for means of dose adjustment in case of co-administration of 
CYP3A4/PgP  inducers/inhibitors  will  be  identified.  Dose  recommendations  for  co-administration  of 
everolimus  with  potent  inhibitors  will  be  provided  together  with  target  concentrations  and  an 
evaluation  of  the  potential  benefit  associated  with  therapeutic  drug  monitoring.  Variability  in 
interaction  effects  between  individuals  and  difference  in  interaction  effects  between  different  potent 
inhibitors will be addressed. 
A relevant set of sub-populations were investigated. There are no relevant effects of gender on PK. In 
a  population  pharmacokinetic  evaluation  in  cancer  patients,  no  significant  influence  of  age 
(27-85 years)  on  oral  clearance  of  everolimus  was  detected.  Oral  clearance  (CL/F)  is  similar  in 
Japanese and Caucasian cancer patients with similar liver functions. Based on analysis of population 
pharmacokinetics, oral clearance (CL/F) is on average 20% higher in black transplant patients. Also, 
as it can be expected by the elimination kinetics, renal impairment has no effect on PK. In a population 
pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  170 patients  with  advanced  solid  tumours,  no  significant  influence  of 
creatinine  clearance  (25-178 ml/min)  was  detected  on  CL/F  of  everolimus.  Post-transplant  renal 
impairment  (creatinine  clearance  range  11-107 ml/min)  did  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
everolimus in transplant patients. However, there is a clear effect of hepatic impairment on elimination 
with  a  clear  correlation  of  bilirubin  levels  and  AUC.  The  average  AUC  of  everolimus  in  8 subjects 
with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  class  B)  was  twice  that  found  in  8 subjects  with 
normal hepatic function. AUC was positively correlated with serum bilirubin concentration and with 
prolongation  of  prothrombin  time  and  negatively  correlated  with  serum  albumin  concentration.  The 
impact of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) on the pharmacokinetics of everolimus has 
not been assessed (see SPC sections 4.2 and 4.4) and a commitment by the applicant to study hepatic 
impairment will be included as a follow-up measure. 
The assessment of clinical efficacy of everolimus in RCC is based on one pivotal, phase III, double 
blind,  randomised  study  (n=410)  in  patients  who  have  progressed  after  treatment  with  VEGF-
inhibitors (mostly sunitinib and /or sorafenib). Everolimus and BSC were compared (2:1) to placebo 
and  BSC.  PFS  was  chosen  as  primary  endpoint  and  OS,  ORR  and  QoL  were  chosen  as  secondary 
endpoints. The trial was terminated early by the IRB because the predefined stop criteria were met. At 
the time of cut-off the HR in the primary analyses (ITT/FAS, centralized radiology review) was 0.30 
and  statistically  very  compelling  (p<10-16).  At  the last  data  cut-off,  median  PFS  for  everolimus  was 
4.90 months compared to 1.87 months for placebo control. The majority of patients from the placebo 
group crossed over to open-label everolimus. These patients had a median PFS of 5.09 months based 
on  investigators  assessment  of  response.  Relevant  sensitivity  and  supportive  analyses  on  PFS  were 
performed.  Treatment  effect  across  pre-specified  patients  subgroups  defined  as  favourable-risk, 
intermediate-risk and poor-risk by the MSKCC showed lower numbers of patients with a PFS event in 
the everolimus-treated arm compared to placebo-treated arm. In addition, the time to deterioration in 
KPS  score  was  longer  in  the  everolimus  arm  compared  to  placebo  arm.  There  was  no  difference 
observed  between  treatment  OS,  where  as  a  cut-off  date  of  15  November  2008,  the  median  OS  for 
everolimus-treated  patients  was  14.8 months  and  14.4  months  for  placebo  (on  an  intention-to-treat 
basis i.e., including crossover). This could be related to the design of the study where crossover from 
placebo  to  active  treatment  at  the  time  of  progression  was  allowed  and  thus  confounds  the  survival 
result and prevents the detection of a significant difference in OS and also to the fact that the survival 
time of the patient population is longer than expected with lower numbers of deaths.  
Page 51 of 75 
 
 
The  requirements  for  one  “pivotal  study”  as  described  in  the  guideline  CPMP/EWF/2330/99  were 
fulfilled in the pivotal trial. However, there were some aspects which caused concern. There were no 
supportive  phase  I/II  trials  conducted  in  the  sought  indication  and  the  evidence  in  phase  II  trials  in 
other indications was very weak. The clinical relevance of PFS as the primary endpoint and the benefit 
of approximately 3 months difference in PFS between treatments were discussed, especially since this 
was  in  disagreement  with  scientific  advice  from  the  SAWP,  which  advocated  the  use  of  OS  as  the 
preferred endpoint. Moreover, the significance of the primary endpoint was questioned, in particular 
since there is no additional support for a patient benefit in terms of QoL and PRO data presented.  
Clinical safety 
The overall evaluation is based upon data from 596 patients who have been exposed to everolimus at 
the  recommended  dose  (10 mg),  and  using  the  proposed  treatment  regimen  (daily  monotherapy)  in 
various patient populations (Table 18). 
Table 18 
Pooled dataset for everolimus 10mg monotherapy – Safety population 
Study No 
Study design, objectives, and population 
[C2240] 
Double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase-III study (with open-
label extension) 
Safety and efficacy in patients with mRCC whose disease has progressed 
despite prior VEGFr-TKI therapy 
[C2101 Part 1/ 
C2102] 
[C2107] 
[C1101] 
[C2235] 
[C2239] 
Dose-escalation in patients with advanced solid tumours 
Phase-Ib study investigating safety, tolerability, and molecular 
pharmacodynamic effects in patients with advanced solid tumours 
Open-label, single-arm, dose-escalation study in Japanese patients with 
advanced solid tumours 
Open-label, single-arm phase-II study 
Safety and efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC previously treated 
with either chemotherapy (CT) only or with CT and an EGFR-TKI 
Open-label, stratified phase-II study 
Safety and efficacy in patients with advanced pNET after the failure of 
cytotoxic chemotherapy 
Total 
No of patients receiving  
10-mg daily dose regimen 
274 
+ 
137 a 
(open-label phase following 
crossover from placebo) 
33 
12 
3 
85 
115 
Stratum 1 
596 a 
a One patient in Study C2240 was randomised to receive everolimus therapy but was subsequently mistakenly entered into the 
open-label phase of the study; this patient is counted only once in the total row 
•  Patient exposure 
Overall,  exposure  to  everolimus  in  the  study  C2240  is  presented  in  Table  19  and  for  the  total 
monotherapy  pooled  dataset  in  Table  20.  In  total,  96 patients  (35.7%)  were  exposed  to  everolimus 
therapy  for  a  period  of  ≥ 4 months  with  a  total  exposure  of  77.8 patient-years.  Treatment  duration 
(calculated from the date of the first to the last dose of study drug [including treatment interruptions]) 
was considerably longer for patients receiving everolimus where the median duration of therapy was 
95.0 days  (range:  12-315)  for  patients  treated  with  everolimus  compared  with  57.0 days  for  those 
receiving placebo (range: 21-237). 
Page 52 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19 
Duration of exposure to study drug after randomisation – Study C2240 
Exposure 
Exposure categories, n (%) 
≥4 weeks 
≥8 weeks 
≥12 weeks 
≥16 weeks 
≥20 weeks 
≥24 weeks 
≥32 weeks 
Duration of exposure (days) 
  Mean (standard deviation) 
  Median 
  Range 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=269 
Placebo 
N=135 
262 
221 
152 
96 
71 
45 
9 
(97.4) 
(82.2) 
(56.5) 
(35.7) 
(26.4) 
(16.7) 
(3.3) 
127 
85 
44 
32 
14 
6 
1 
(94.1) 
(63.0) 
(32.6) 
(23.4) 
(10.4) 
(4.4) 
(0.7) 
105.7 
(58.5) 
75.3 
(42.6) 
95.0 
12 to 315 
57.0 
21 to 237 
Table 20 
Duration of exposure to study drug – Monotherapy Pooled Dataset 
Dose  interruptions  and  dose  reductions  in  study  C2240  are  reported  for  approximately  37%  and 
approximately  15%  in  the  everolimus  and  placebo  treatment  groups,  respectively.  The  main  reason 
was adverse events (AEs) (26 % in the everolimus group).  
Adverse events  
Nearly all patients reported AEs throughout the study. System organ classes with a higher proportion 
of everolimus-treated patients reporting events (≥ 10% relative to placebo) included:  
•  gastrointestinal disorders 
•  general disorders and administration site conditions  
• 
• 
•  blood and lymphatic system disorders  
• 
infections and infestations  
skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  
respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders; metabolism and nutrition disorders  
Page 53 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
‘investigations’ 
The  frequency  per  system  organ  class  is  presented  for  study  C2240  (Table  21)  and  for  the  pooled 
dataset (Table 22). 
Table 21 
Adverse events by system organ class – Study C2240 
Second interim analysis 
Data cut-off: 15-Oct-2007 
Placebo 
Safety Update 
Data cut-off: 28-Feb-2008 
Placebo 
Everolimus 
10 mg 
N=269 
n (%) 
N=135 
n (%) 
Everolimus 
10 mg 
N=274 
n (%) 
N=137 
n (%) 
(93.4) 
(49.6) 
(61.3) 
(21.2) 
(35.8) 
(27.0) 
(18.2) 
(34.3) 
(27.7) 
(18.2) 
(13.9) 
(10.2) 
(9.5) 
(0.7) 
(8.0) 
(5.1) 
(2.9) 
(3.6) 
(2.2) 
(2.2) 
(0.7) 
(0.7) 
 128 
  68 
  84 
  29 
  49 
  37 
  25 
  47 
  38 
  25 
  19 
  14 
  13 
  1 
  11 
  7 
  4 
  5 
  3 
  3 
  1 
  0 
  1 
  0 
  0 
 126 
  62 
  81 
  25 
  42 
  31 
  26 
  41 
  34 
  15 
  18 
  14 
  11 
  1 
  13 
  7 
  4 
  3 
  3 
  2 
  257 
  203 
  196 
  150 
  138 
  128 
  100 
  90 
  89 
  67 
  63 
  36 
  26 
  22 
  19 
  19 
  17 
8 
7 
7 
(93.3) 
(45.9) 
(60.0) 
(18.5) 
(31.1) 
(23.0) 
(19.3) 
(30.4) 
(25.2) 
(11.1) 
(13.3) 
(10.4) 
(8.1) 
(0.7) 
(9.6) 
(5.2) 
(3.0) 
(2.2) 
(2.2) 
(1.5) 
(95.5) 
(75.5) 
(72.9) 
(55.8) 
(51.3) 
(47.6) 
(37.2) 
(33.5) 
(33.1) 
(24.9) 
(23.4) 
(13.4) 
(9.7) 
(8.2) 
(7.1) 
(7.1) 
(6.3) 
(3.0) 
(2.6) 
(2.6) 
Any primary system organ class 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Infections and infestations 
Investigations 
Psychiatric disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Cardiac disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Endocrine disorders 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Surgical and medical procedures 
(0.7) 
Immune system disorders 
Congenital, familial and genetic disorders 
(0.4) 
Patients with multiple AEs within a system organ class are counted only once within that specific organ class 
Study included: Study C2240 
Source: [Appendix 1, PT-Table 2.1-1a] 
(96.7) 
(81.4) 
(79.2) 
(60.2) 
(64.2) 
(56.6) 
(48.5) 
(43.1) 
(38.7) 
(36.9) 
(29.6) 
(16.8) 
(15.3) 
(11.3) 
(9.9) 
(9.1) 
(9.9) 
(4.4) 
(3.6) 
(4.4) 
  265 
  223 
  217 
  165 
  176 
  155 
  133 
  118 
  106 
  101 
  81 
  46 
  42 
  31 
  27 
  25 
  27 
  12 
  10 
  12 
5 
  12 
0 
2 
1 
  0 
  0 
  1 
  0 
  0 
(1.9) 
(1.9) 
(0.7) 
(0.7) 
(1.8) 
(4.4) 
5 
5 
2 
2 
0 
(0.7) 
Page 54 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22 
Adverse events by system organ class – Monotherapy Pooled Dataset 
The incidence of stomatitis, anaemia, asthenia, fatigue, and rash were the most common AEs reported 
with everolimus therapy.   
Adverse events occurring more commonly in the everolimus treatment group (with a ≥ 5% difference 
between treatment arms) are summarized in Table 23 and 24 with the respective grading. It is striking 
in the pivotal study that the incidence of AEs in the placebo arm (93.3 %) as well as the rate of grade 3 
(23.0 %) and 4 (4.4%) AEs are high. As this is likely to be associated to the underlying disease and co-
morbidities of the study population, the comparing incidence rates with everolimus to incidence rates 
with placebo is of major importance.  
Other  adverse  reactions  occurring  more  frequently  with  everolimus  than  with  placebo,  but  with  an 
incidence of <5% include: 
Page 55 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Common: dehydration (1.5%), exacerbation of pre-existing 
diabetes mellitus (1.1%); Uncommon: new onset of diabetes mellitus 
•  Psychiatric disorders: Common: insomnia (3.3%) 
•  Nervous system disorders: Uncommon: ageusia 
•  Eye disorders: Common: eyelid oedema (3.3%), conjunctivitis (1.5%) 
•  Cardiac disorders: Uncommon: congestive cardiac failure 
•  Vascular disorders: Common: hypertension (1.8%): Not known: haemorrhages 
•  Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Common: haemoptysis (1.1%) 
•  Gastrointestinal disorders: Common: abdominal pain (3.6%), dysphagia (2.6%), dyspepsia (2.6%) 
•  Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Common: hand-foot syndrome (4.7%), nail disorder 
(4.7%), erythema (3.6%), acneiform dermatitis (3.3%), onychoclasis (2.9%), skin exfoliation 
(1.8%) 
•  Renal and urinary disorders: Common: increased daytime urination (1.8%) 
•  General disorders and administration site conditions: Common: chest pain (1.1%); Uncommon: 
impaired wound healing 
Page 56 of 75 
 
Table 23 
Adverse events by preferred term irrespective of relationship to treatment 
occurring more commonly (by 5% or more) with everolimus therapy in 
with grading – Study C2240 
Second interim analysis 
Data cut-off: 15-Oct-2007 
Safety Update 
Data cut-off: 28-Feb-2008 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=269 
All  Gr 3  Gr 4 
% 
% 
% 
8.6 
45.7 
95.5 
0.4 
4.1 
35.7 
0.4 
7.1 
28.3 
0.4 
1.9 
27.9 
0 
4.5 
27.5 
0 
1.1 
25.7 
0 
1.5 
24.5 
0 
0.4 
23.0 
0 
1.1 
21.9 
0 
1.1 
20.4 
1.5 
4.5 
19.3 
0 
0.4 
17.8 
0 
0.4 
16.0 
0 
1.1 
15.6 
0 
1.5 
15.2 
0 
1.9 
14.9 
0 
0.7 
14.5 
0 
0 
13.8 
0 
0.4 
10.8 
0 
0.4 
10.0 
0 
0.7 
10.0 
0 
0 
8.6 
0 
4.1 
8.2 
0 
2.2 
7.8 
0 
0.4 
7.8 
7.4 
7.1 
5.6 
5.2 
5.2 
0 
2.6 
1.1 
1.5 
0.4 
4.5 
2.2 
1.1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Placebo 
N=135 
All  Gr 3  Gr 4 
% 
% 
% 
4.4 
23.0 
93.3 
0 
0 
7.4 
0.7 
4.4 
14.8 
0 
3.7 
20.0 
0 
3.0 
25.9 
0 
0 
5.9 
0 
0 
5.9 
0 
0 
14.1 
0 
0.7 
12.6 
0 
0 
17.8 
0 
2.2 
10.4 
0 
0 
7.4 
0 
0 
8.1 
0 
0 
10.4 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
0 
1.5 
0 
0.7 
8.1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
4.4 
0 
0 
4.4 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
1.5 
2.2 
0 
0 
3.0 
0 
0 
0.7 
0 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
0.7 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Everolimus 10 mg 
N=274 
All  Gr 3  Gr 4 
% 
% 
% 
13.1 
51.8 
96.7 
0.4 
4.0 
37.6 
0.7 
9.5 
37.6 
0.7 
2.6 
33.2 
0 
5.5 
30.7 
0 
1.1 
29.2 
0 
1.5 
29.6 
0 
0.7 
29.9 
0 
1.5 
25.2 
0 
1.5 
26.3 
1.5 
6.2 
23.7 
0 
0.7 
24.8 
0 
0.7 
19.7 
0 
2.2 
20.4 
0 
1.5 
18.6 
0 
3.3 
20.1 
0.4 
0.7 
18.6 
0 
0 
17.9 
0 
0.4 
12.8 
0 
0.7 
13.5 
0 
1.1 
14.6 
0 
0 
10.2 
0 
6.2 
12.0 
0 
3.3 
9.5 
0 
1.1 
9.5 
9.1 
9.9 
6.6 
7.7 
4.7 
0 
2.6 
1.5 
4.4 
0.4 
6.6 
5.1 
1.8 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Placebo 
N=137 
All  Gr 3  Gr 4 
% 
% 
% 
5.1 
23.4 
93.4 
0 
0 
6.6 
0.7 
4.4 
14.6 
0 
4.4 
22.6 
0.7 
2.9 
27.0 
0 
0 
6.6 
0 
0 
6.6 
0 
0 
16.1 
0 
0.7 
13.9 
0 
0 
19.0 
0 
2.9 
14.6 
0 
0.7 
8.0 
0 
0 
8.8 
0 
0 
11.7 
0 
0 
1.5 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
0.7 
8.8 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
5.1 
0 
0 
6.6 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
0 
2.2 
0 
1.5 
2.2 
0 
0 
4.4 
0 
0 
0 
0.7 
0 
0 
1.5 
0 
0.7 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Patients with ≥1 AE 
Stomatitis 
Anemia 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Rash 
Diarrhea 
Cough 
Anorexia 
Nausea 
Dyspnea 
Edema peripheral 
Pyrexia 
Vomiting 
Mucosal inflammation 
Hypercholesterolemia 
Headache 
Epistaxis 
Dry skin 
Pruritus 
Hypertriglyceridemia 
Dysgeusia 
Hyperglycemia 
Abdominal pain 
Blood creatinine 
increased 
Aphthous stomatitis 
Pneumonitis 
Thrombocytopenia 
Lymphopenia 
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia 
syndrome 
Pleural effusion 
Nail disorder 
The event with maximum severity is counted for patients who experienced multiple episodes of an event 
Study included: Study C2240 
Page 57 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24 
Grading (severity) of adverse events by preferred term irrespective of 
relationship to treatment (with grade 3-4 events reported in at least 1% in 
either group) in pooled dataset – Monotherapy safety population 
AE preferred terms are listed in descending order of frequency of grade 3 plus grade 4 events in the everolimus 
treatment group in Study C2240 
The event with maximum severity is counted for patients who reported multiple episodes of an event. 
Studies included: Study C2240, C2239, C1101, C2101 monotherapy/C2102, C2107, C2235 
Potential safety concerns were identified during clinical development, which include eight categories 
of events that are displayed in Table 25 with the respective rates in the pivotal study: 
Page 58 of 75 
 
 
 
Table 25 
Clinical adverse events irrespective of relationship to treatment – Study 
C2240 
Second interim analysis 
Data cut-off: 15-Oct-2007 
Placebo 
Safety Update 
Data cut-off: 28-Feb-2008 
Placebo 
Everolimus 
10 mg 
N=269 
n (%) 
Everolimus 
10 mg 
N=274 
n (%) 
  237 
  120 
  136 
  95 
  101 
  36 
  36 
  23 
  11 
(86.5) 
(43.8) 
(49.6) 
(34.7) 
(36.9) 
(13.1) 
(13.1) 
(8.4) 
(4.0) 
N=135 
n (%) 
  53  (39.3) 
(8.1) 
  11 
  24  (17.8) 
(6.7) 
(8.1) 
(3.0) 
9 
  11 
4 
0 
6 
1 
(4.4) 
(0.7) 
N=137 
n (%) 
  53  (38.7) 
(8.0) 
  11 
  25  (18.2) 
(6.6) 
(9.5) 
(2.2) 
9 
  13 
3 
0 
6 
1 
(4.4) 
(0.7) 
Any clinically notable AE 
Stomatitis / oral mucositis / ulcers 
Hematopoiesis decreased / cytopenias 
Rash and similar events 
Metabolic events 
Renal events 
Pulmonary events 
Bleeding and thromboembolic events 
Hepatic events 
Study included: Study C2240 
Source: [Appendix 1, PT-Table 2.1-11a] 
  221 
  112 
  103 
  84 
  71 
  27 
  24 
  19 
9 
(82.2) 
(41.6) 
(38.3) 
(31.2) 
(26.4) 
(10.0) 
(8.9) 
(7.1) 
(3.3) 
Non-infectious pneumonitis 
Non-infectious  pneumonitis  is  a  class  effect  of  rapamycin  derivatives.  Cases  of  non-infectious 
pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease) have also been described in patients taking everolimus 
(see SPC section 4.8). The rate of clinical apparent pneumonitis is 13.1 % for everolimus, cough and 
dyspnea  are  reported  with  approximately  23  %  and  19  %,  respectively.  Some  of  these  have  been 
severe  and  on  rare  occasions,  a  fatal  outcome  was  observed.  A  diagnosis  of  non-infectious 
pneumonitis  should  be  considered  in  patients  presenting  with  non-specific  respiratory  signs  and 
symptoms such as hypoxia, pleural effusion, cough or dyspnoea, and in whom infectious, neoplastic 
and other non-medicinal causes have been excluded by means of appropriate investigations. Patients 
should be advised to report promptly any new or worsening respiratory symptoms. 
Infections 
In  the  study  C2240,  infections  were  diagnosed  in  67 patients  (24.9%)  in  the  everolimus  treatment 
group and in 15 patients (11.1%) in the placebo arm.  There was a 16-fold grade 3 and 4-fold grade 4  
infections  in  the  everolimus  arm.    Specific  grade 3  or  4  infections  occurring  in  ≥1 patient  were: 
pneumonia  (grade 3  [n=6]),  septic  shock  (grade 3  [n=1];  grade 4  [n=1]),  and  urinary  tract  infection 
(grade 3 [n=2]).    Four  grade  3  fungal  infections  (of various types)  were  also reported: aspergillosis, 
bronchopulmonary  aspergillosis,  Candida,  and  fungal  infection  (not  specified).    One  of  the  patients 
with a pulmonary aspergillosis also had a staphylococci septicaemia.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
A  summary  table  for  SAEs,  death,  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation,  and  other  significant  AEs  is 
displayed  in  Table  26.  Serious  adverse  events  were  reported  more  frequently  for  patients  receiving 
everolimus  (110  [40.1%]  and  31  [22.6%]  for  the  everolimus  and  placebo  groups,  respectively). The 
most  frequently  reported  SAEs  were  dyspnea  (7.3  %),  pyrexia  (4.4  %),  pleural  effusion  (3.3  %), 
pneumonitis (3.6 %), anaemia (3.3%) and dehydration (2.9 %).  Deaths ‘on-treatment’ including the 
initial 28 days of discontinuing therapy were recorded for 28 patients (6.8 %) by the data cut-off date 
of 28 February 2008. Of the 28 patients who died, 21 (7.7%) had received treatment with everolimus 
and 7 (5.1%) with placebo. Two deaths, both in patients receiving everolimus therapy, were suspected 
as  being  causally  related  to  treatment.    One  patient  died  from  overwhelming  candidal  sepsis, 
complicated  by  acute  respiratory  failure,  while  the  second  patient  also  died  from  sepsis.    A  third 
patient  for  whom  the  principal  cause  of  death  was  progressive  renal  cancer  experienced  acute 
respiratory failure concurrently, with ongoing grade 3 interstitial lung disease (that was suspected to 
be  drug-related).    This  observation  led  to  an  update  to  the  Label  to  indicate  that  non-infectious 
pneumonitis has on occasion been associated with a fatal outcome. 
Page 59 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Across the broader development program reported in the pooled dataset, 6 patients (1.0%) have died 
where  the  primary  cause  of  death  was  reported  to  be  an  AE  within  the  “respiratory,  thoracic,  and 
mediastinal disorders” system organ class. 
Table 26 
On-treatment deaths by system organ class and preferred term in pooled 
dataset – Monotherapy safety population 
System  organ  classes  are  listed  in  descending  order  of  frequency  in  the  everolimus  treatment  group  in  study 
C2240; AE preferred terms are sorted within organ class also by descending order of frequency with everolimus 
in study C2240. 
Studies included: C2240, C2239, C1101, C2101 monotherapy/C2102, C2107 and C2235. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Clinical  chemistry  abnormalities  were  reported  in  the  majority  of  patients  receiving  everolimus 
therapy,  with  increases  in  cholesterol,  triglycerides,  gamma  glutamyltransferase,  glucose,  creatinine, 
and alkaline phosphatase, and decreases in phosphate being seen in >30% of patients.  The majority of 
grade 3  abnormalities  were  increased  glucose,  increased  gamma  glutamyltransferase,  decreased 
phosphate, and increased cholesterol. 
Haematologic abnormalities were common with decreases in red cells, white cells, and platelets being 
noted in >10% of patients. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Adverse events were evaluated according to demographic subgroups (gender, age, race, and ethnicity). 
No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients. No dose adjustment is required for renal impaired 
patients.  For  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  class  B),  the  dose  should  be 
reduced to 5 mg daily. Everolimus has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh class C) and is not recommended for use in this patient population (see SPC sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Everolimus is not recommended for use in children due to lack of data on safety and efficacy. 
Everolimus  is  contraindicated  for  patients  with  hypersensitivity  to  everolimus  or  to  any  of  the 
excipients. 
Page 60 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  with  rare  hereditary  problems  of  galactose  intolerance,  Lapp  lactase  deficiency  or  glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
Based  on  non-clinical  findings,  male  fertility  may  be  reversibly  compromised  by  treatment  with 
everolimus (see SPC section 5.3). Women of childbearing potential must use an effective method of 
contraception  while  receiving  everolimus.  There  are  no  or  limited  amount  of  data  from  the  use  of 
everolimus in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity effects (see SPC 
section  5.3).  Everolimus  is  not  recommended  during  pregnancy  and  in  women  of  childbearing 
potential  not  using  contraception.  It  is  not  known  whether  everolimus  is  excreted  in  breast  milk. 
However,  in  rats  everolimus  and/or  its  metabolites  readily  passes  into  the  milk.  Women  taking 
everolimus should therefore not breast-feed. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Concurrent  treatment  with  strong  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  or  PgP  (including  but  not  limited  to 
ketoconazole,  itraconazole,  voriconazole,  ritonavir,  clarithromycin  and  telythromycin)  should  be 
avoided (see section 4.5). There was a significant increase in exposure to everolimus (Cmax and AUC 
increased  by  3.9-  and  15.0-fold,  respectively)  in  healthy  subjects  when  everolimus  was  co-
administered with ketoconazole (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and PgP inhibitor).  
Concomitant treatment with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 and PgP requires caution. 
There  was  an  increase  in  exposure  to  everolimus  in  healthy  subjects  when  everolimus  was  co-
administered with: 
−  erythromycin (a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a PgP inhibitor; Cmax and AUC increased by 2.0- 
and 4.4-fold, respectively). 
−  verapamil (a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a PgP inhibitor; Cmax and AUC increased by 2.3- and 
3.5-fold, respectively). 
−   cyclosporin  (a  CYP3A4  substrate  and  a  PgP  inhibitor;  Cmax  and  AUC  increased by  1.8-  and  2.7- 
fold, respectively). 
Use caution when administering everolimus in combination with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or PgP 
inhibitors.  If  patients  require  co-administration  of  a  moderate  CYP3A4  or  PgP  inhibitor,  reduce  the 
dose to 5 mg daily. Further dose reduction to 5 mg every other day may be required to manage adverse 
reactions. 
Other  moderate  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  and  PgP  that  may  increase  everolimus  blood  concentrations 
include certain antifungal agents (e.g. fluconazole) and calcium channel blockers (e.g. diltiazem). 
Substances  that  are  inducers  of  CYP3A4  or  PgP  may  decrease  everolimus  blood  concentrations  by 
increasing  metabolism  or  the  efflux  of  everolimus  from  intestinal  cells.  Concurrent  treatment  with 
strong  inducers  of  CYP3A4  or  PgP  should  be  avoided  where  possible  (see  SPC  section  4.5).  Pre-
treatment of healthy subjects with multiple doses of rifampicin (a CYP3A4 and PgP inducer) 600 mg 
daily  for  8  days  followed  by  a  single  dose  of  everolimus,  increased  everolimus  oral-dose  clearance 
nearly  3-fold  and  decreased  Cmax  by  58%  and  AUC  by  63%.  Other  inducers  of  CYP3A4  that  may 
increase the metabolism of everolimus and decrease everolimus blood levels include St. John’s wort 
(Hypericum  perforatum),  anticonvulsants  (e.g.  carbamazepine,  phenobarbital,  phenytoin)  and  anti-
HIV agents (e.g. efavirenz, nevirapine). Concomitant treatment with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 or 
PgP requires caution. 
If patients require co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer, an everolimus dose increase from 
10 mg  daily  up  to  20 mg  daily  should  be  considered  (based  on  pharmacokinetic  data),  using  5 mg 
increments. However, there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment in patients receiving strong 
CYP3A4 inducers.  
Page 61 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuation due to adverse events occurred 3 times more often with everolimus than with placebo 
(10.4 and 3.7 %, respectively.). 
•  Post marketing experience 
Not applicable 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Stomatitis, anaemia, asthenia, fatigue, and rash were the most common AEs reported with everolimus 
therapy.  These events are consistent with the known safety profile of everolimus and other rapamycin 
derivatives. Everolimus has immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to infections, 
especially infections with opportunistic pathogens.  
Management  of  severe  and/or  intolerable  suspected  adverse  reactions  may  require  dose  alterations. 
Everolimus  may  be  dose  reduced  or  temporarily  withheld  (e.g.  for  one  week)  followed  by 
reintroduction at 5 mg daily. If dose reduction is required, the suggested dose is 5 mg daily (see SPC 
section 4.4). 
Everolimus  is  contraindicated  for  patients  with  hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance,  to  other 
rapamycin derivatives or to any of the excipients. Hypersensitivity reactions manifested by symptoms 
including, but not limited to, anaphylaxis, dyspnoea, flushing, chest pain or angioedema (e.g. swelling 
of the airways or tongue, with or without respiratory impairment) have been observed with everolimus 
(see SPC section 4.3). 
For  non-infectious  pneumonitis,  patients  who  develop  radiological  changes  suggestive  of  non-
infectious pneumonitis and have few or no symptoms may continue everolimus therapy without dose 
adjustments. If symptoms are moderate, consideration should be given to interruption of therapy until 
symptoms  improve.  The  use  of  corticosteroids  may  be  indicated.  Everolimus  may  be  re-initiated  at 
5 mg daily (see SPC section 4.4 and 4.8).  
For  cases  where  symptoms  of  non-infectious  pneumonitis  are  severe,  everolimus  therapy  should  be 
discontinued and the use of corticosteroids may be indicated until clinical symptoms resolve. Therapy 
with everolimus may be re-initiated at 5 mg daily depending on the individual clinical circumstances. 
Everolimus  has  immunosuppressive  properties  and  may  predispose  patients  to  infections,  especially 
infections  with  opportunistic  pathogens  (see  SPC  section  4.8).  Localised  and  systemic  infections, 
including pneumonia, other bacterial infections and invasive fungal infections, such as aspergillosis or 
candidiasis,  have  been  described  in  patients  taking  everolimus.  Some  of  these  infections  have  been 
severe (e.g. leading to respiratory failure) and occasionally have had a fatal outcome. Physicians and 
patients should be aware of the increased risk of infection with everolimus, be vigilant for symptoms 
and  signs  of  infection,  and  institute  appropriate  treatment  promptly.  Patients  with  pre-existing 
infections  should  have  them  appropriately  treated  and  fully  resolved  before  starting  treatment  with 
everolimus. If a diagnosis of invasive systemic fungal infection is made during everolimus treatment, 
everolimus should be promptly and permanently discontinued and the patient treated with appropriate 
antifungal therapy. 
The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with everolimus (see SPC section 4.5). 
Mouth  ulcers,  stomatitis  and  oral  mucositis  have  been  seen  in  patients  treated  with  everolimus  (see 
SPC  section  4.8).  In  such  cases  topical  treatments  are  recommended,  but  alcohol-  or  peroxide-
containing mouthwashes should be avoided as they may exacerbate the condition. Antifungal agents 
should not be used unless fungal infection has been diagnosed (see SPC section 4.5). 
Elevations  of  serum  creatinine,  usually  mild,  have  been  reported  in  clinical  trials  (see  SPC  section 
4.8).  Monitoring  of  renal  function,  including  measurement  of  blood  urea  nitrogen  (BUN)  or  serum 
creatinine, is recommended prior to the start of everolimus therapy and periodically thereafter. 
Page 62 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Everolimus should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) (see  
SPC sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Hyperglycaemia  has  been  reported  in  clinical  trials  (see  SPC  section  4.8).  The  majority  of  cases 
occurred in patients who had an abnormal fasting glucose level before taking everolimus. Monitoring 
of  fasting  serum  glucose  is  recommended  prior  to  the  start  of  everolimus  therapy  and  periodically 
thereafter. Optimal glycaemic control should be achieved before starting a patient on everolimus. 
Decreased haemoglobin, neutrophils and platelets have been reported in clinical trials (see SPC section  
4.8). Monitoring of complete blood count is recommended prior to the start of everolimus therapy and 
periodically thereafter. 
Everolimus  is  a  substrate  of  CYP3A4,  and  also  a  substrate  and  moderate  inhibitor  of  the  multidrug 
efflux  pump  P-glycoprotein  (PgP).    Absorption  and  subsequent  elimination  of  everolimus  may 
therefore  be  influenced  by  products  that  affect  CYP3A4  and/or  PgP.    In  vitro,  everolimus  was  a 
competitive  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4  and  a  mixed  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6.  Co-administration  with  strong 
inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  or  P-glycoprotein  (PgP)  should  be  avoided  (see  SPC  section  4.5).  If  no 
alternative treatment is available and co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 is crucial, 
the patient should be carefully monitored for safety. If necessary, dose reduction may be considered 
for management of adverse drug reactions. 
Grapefruit, grapefruit juice and other foods that are known to affect cytochrome P450 and PgP activity 
should be avoided during treatment. 
Use caution when administering everolimus in combination with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or PgP 
inhibitors (see SPC section 4.5). If patients require co-administration of a moderate CYP3A4 or PgP 
inhibitor,  reduce  the  dose  to  5 mg  daily.  Further  dose  reduction  to  5 mg  every  other  day  may  be 
required to manage adverse reactions. 
Co-administration with strong inducers of CYP3A4 or PgP should be avoided (see SPC section 4.5). If 
patients require co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer, based on pharmacokinetic studies, an 
everolimus  dose  increase  from  10 mg/day  up  to  20 mg/day  should  be  considered,  using  5 mg 
increments.  This  dose  of  everolimus  is  predicted  to  adjust  the  AUC  to  the  range  observed  without 
inducers.  However,  there  are  no  clinical  data  with  this  dose  adjustment  in  patients  receiving  strong 
CYP3A4 inducers. If the strong inducer is discontinued, the everolimus dose should be returned to the 
dose used prior to initiation of the strong CYP3A4 inducer. 
Based on in vitro results, the systemic concentrations obtained after oral daily doses of 10 mg make 
inhibition  of  PgP,  CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6  unlikely. However,  inhibition of  CYP3A4  and  PgP  in the 
gut  cannot  be  excluded;  hence  everolimus  may  affect  the  bioavailability  of  co-administered  drugs 
which are CYP3A4 and/or PgP substrates. 
The  response  to  vaccination  may  be  affected  and  vaccination  may  therefore be less  effective  during 
treatment  with  everolimus.  The  use  of  live  vaccines  should  be  avoided  during  treatment  with 
everolimus  (see  SPC  section  4.4).  Examples  of  live  vaccines  are:  intranasal  influenza,  measles, 
mumps,  rubella,  oral  polio,  BCG  (Bacillus  Calmette-Guérin),  yellow  fever,  varicella,  and  TY21a 
typhoid vaccines. 
There  are  no  or  limited  amount  of  data  from  the  use  of  everolimus  in  pregnant  women.  Studies  in 
animals  have  shown  reproductive  toxicity  effects  (see  SPC  section  5.3).  Everolimus  is  not 
recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. It is 
not  known  whether  everolimus  is  excreted  in  breast  milk.  However,  in  rats  everolimus  and/or  its 
metabolites readily passes into the milk. Women taking everolimus should therefore not breast-feed. 
No  studies  on  the  effects  on  the  ability  to  drive  and  use  machines  have  been  performed.  Patients 
should  be  advised  to  be  cautious  when  driving  or  using  machines  if  they  experience  fatigue  during 
treatment with everolimus. 
Page 63 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reported experience with overdose in humans is very limited. Single doses of up to 70 mg have been 
given with acceptable acute tolerability. General supportive measures should be initiated in all cases of 
overdose. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table 27 is a summary of the risk management plan 
Table 27 
Summary of the risk management plan version 2.3 
Safety concern 
Important identified risks 
Non-infectious pneumonitis 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Active follow-up of all serious 
spontaneous post-marketing 
reports, and all clinical trial 
SAE reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire / checklist. 
Page 64 of 75 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Section 4.4: 
Non-infectious pneumonitis is a 
class effect of rapamycin 
derivatives, including Afinitor. Non-
infectious pneumonitis (including 
interstitial lung disease) was 
described in 12% of patients taking 
Afinitor (see section 4.8). Some 
cases were severe and on rare 
occasions, a fatal outcome was 
observed. A diagnosis of non-
infectious pneumonitis should be 
considered in patients presenting 
with non-specific respiratory signs 
and symptoms such as hypoxia, 
pleural effusion, cough or 
dyspnoea, and in whom infectious, 
neoplastic and other non-medicinal 
causes have been excluded by 
means of appropriate 
investigations. Patients should be 
advised to report promptly any new 
or worsening respiratory 
symptoms. 
Patients who develop radiological 
changes suggestive of non-
infectious pneumonitis and have 
few or no symptoms may continue 
Afinitor therapy without dose 
adjustments If symptoms are 
moderate, consideration should be 
given to interruption of therapy until 
symptoms improve. The use of 
corticosteroids may be indicated. 
Afinitor may be re-initiated at 5 mg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Active follow-up of all serious 
spontaneous post-marketing 
reports, and all clinical trial 
SAE reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire / checklist  
Page 65 of 75 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
daily. 
For cases where symptoms of non-
infectious pneumonitis are severe, 
Afinitor therapy should be 
discontinued and the use of 
corticosteroids may be indicated 
until clinical symptoms resolve. 
Therapy with Afinitor may be re-
initiated at 5 mg daily depending 
on the individual clinical 
circumstances. 
Section 4.8: 
Pneumonitis – Very common 
(Includes pneumonitis, 
interstitial lung disease, lung 
infiltration, pulmonary alveolar 
haemorrhage, pulmonary 
toxicity, and alveolitis). 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Section 4.4: 
Afinitor has immunosuppressive 
properties and may predispose 
patients to infections, especially 
infections with opportunistic 
pathogens (see section 4.8). 
Localised and systemic infections, 
including pneumonia, other 
bacterial infections and invasive 
fungal infections, such as 
aspergillosis or candidiasis, have 
been described in patients taking 
Afinitor. Some of these infections 
have been severe (e.g. leading to 
respiratory failure) and 
occasionally fatal. Physicians and 
patients should be aware of the 
increased risk of infection with 
Afinitor, be vigilant for symptoms 
and signs of infection, and institute 
appropriate treatment promptly. 
Pre-existing infections should be 
treated appropriately and have 
resolved fully before starting 
treatment with Afinitor. If a 
diagnosis of invasive systemic 
fungal infection is made, Afinitor 
treatment should be promptly and 
permanently discontinued and the 
patient treated with appropriate 
antifungal therapy. 
Decreased […] lymphocytes, 
neutrophils […] have been 
reported in clinical trials. 
Monitoring of complete blood count 
is recommended prior to the start 
of Afinitor therapy and periodically 
thereafter. 
Section 4.8: 
Infections – Very common  
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Active follow-up of all serious 
spontaneous post-marketing 
reports, and all clinical trial 
SAE reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire / checklist 
Stomatitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Increased creatinine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Active follow-up of all serious 
spontaneous post-marketing 
reports, and all clinical trial 
SAE reports, using a targeted 
Page 66 of 75 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
(Includes all events within the 
‘infections and infestations’ 
system organ class (such as 
pneumonia, sepsis, and 
opportunistic infections (eg, 
aspergillosis and candidiasis)) 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.3 and 4.4. 
Section 4.3: 
Hypersensitivity to the active 
substance, to other rapamycin 
derivatives, or to any of the 
excipients. 
Section 4.4: 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
manifested by symptoms 
including, but not limited to, 
anaphylaxis, dyspnea, flushing, 
chest pain or angioedema (e.g. 
swelling of the airways or 
tongue, with or without 
respiratory impairment) have 
been observed with everolimus 
(see section 4.3). 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Section 4.4: 
Mouth ulcers, stomatitis and 
oral mucositis have been 
observed in patients treated 
with Afinitor (see section 4.8). 
In such cases topical treatments 
are recommended, but alcohol- 
or peroxide-containing 
mouthwashes should be 
avoided as they may exacerbate 
the condition. Antifungal 
agents should not be used 
unless fungal infection has 
been diagnosed (see section 
4.5). 
Section 4.8: 
Stomatitis – Very common 
(Includes stomatitis and 
aphthous stomatitis, and mouth 
and tongue ulceration) 
Risk is included in Sections 4.4 
and 4.8 of the EU-SPC. 
Section 4.4: 
Elevations of serum creatinine, 
usually mild, have been 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
questionnaire / checklist 
Hyperglycaemia/ new onset 
diabetes 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Drug interactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
To address drugs eliminated by 
CYP3A4, and PgP substrates: 
Study: In vivo investigation of 
the effect of everolimus on 
orally administered midazolam 
Meta-analyses to evaluate the 
relationships between 
safety/efficacy and everolimus 
exposure (e.g. Cmin, C1h, and 
C2h) using data of PK blood 
samples that are being collected 
in ongoing clinical studies. 
Identification of a reasonable 
target for means of dose 
Page 67 of 75 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
reported in clinical trials (see 
section 4.8). Monitoring of 
renal function, including 
measurement of blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) or serum 
creatinine, is recommended 
prior to the start of Afinitor 
therapy and periodically 
thereafter. 
Section 4.8: 
Creatinine increased – Very 
common 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Section 4.4: 
Hyperglycaemia, […] have 
been reported in clinical trials 
(see section 4.8). The majority 
of cases of hyperglycaemia 
occurred in patients who had an 
abnormal fasting glucose level 
before taking Afinitor. 
Monitoring of fasting serum 
glucose is recommended prior 
to the start of Afinitor therapy 
and periodically thereafter. 
When possible optimal 
glycaemic control should be 
achieved before starting a 
patient on Afinitor. 
Section 4.8: 
Glucose increased – Very 
common 
New-onset diabetes mellitus - 
Uncommon 
Risk is communicated in EU-
SPC Sections 4.4 and 4.5. 
Section 4.4: 
Co-administration with 
inhibitors and inducers of 
CYP3A4 and/or the multidrug 
efflux pump P-glycoprotein 
(PgP) should be avoided. If co-
administration of a moderate 
CYP3A4 and/or PgP inhibitor 
or inducer cannot be avoided, 
dose adjustments of Afinitor 
can be taken into consideration 
based on predicted AUC (see 
section 4.5). 
Concomitant treatment with 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
adjustment in case of co-
administration of CYP3A4/PgP 
inducers/inhibitors. Provision of 
dose recommendations for co-
administration of everolimus 
with potent inhibitors together 
with target concentrations and 
an evaluation of the potential 
benefit associated with 
therapeutic drug monitoring. 
Address variability in 
interaction effects between 
individuals and difference in 
interaction effects between 
different potent inhibitors. 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac failure 
Wound healing complications 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Active follow-up of all serious 
spontaneous post-marketing 
reports, and all clinical trial 
SAE reports, using a targeted 
questionnaire / checklist  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Lymphopaenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Page 68 of 75 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
potent CYP3A4 inhibitors 
result in dramatically increased 
plasma concentrations of 
everolimus (see section 4.5). 
There are currently not 
sufficient data to allow dosing 
recommendations in this 
situation. Hence, concomitant 
treatment of Afinitor and 
potent inhibitors is not 
recommended. 
Section 4.5: 
Dedicated section includes 
comprehensive drug interaction 
information for: 
•  CYP3A4 and PgP inhibitors 
increasing everolimus 
concentrations 
•  CYP3A4 and PgP inducers 
decreasing everolimus 
concentrations 
•  Agents whose plasma 
concentration may be altered 
by everolimus 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Section 4.8. 
Congestive cardiac failure - 
Uncommon 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Section 4.4: 
Impaired wound healing is a 
class effect of rapamycin 
derivatives, including Afinitor. 
Caution should therefore be 
exercised with the use of 
Afinitor in the peri-surgical 
period. 
Section 4.8: 
Impaired wound healing - 
Uncommon 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Section 4.4: 
Decreased […], lymphocytes, 
neutrophils […] have been 
reported in clinical trials (see 
section 4.8). Monitoring of 
complete blood count is 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Hypophosphataemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Dyslipidaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Important missing information 
Paediatric patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Safety review of clinical trial 
experience in ongoing study 
protocols RAD001-C2244 and 
M2301 
Pregnancy and lactating women 
Hormonal contraceptive use 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Page 69 of 75 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
recommended prior to the start 
of Afinitor therapy and 
periodically thereafter. 
Section 4.8: 
Lymphocytes decreased, 
neutrophils decreased - Very 
common 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.8. 
Section 4.8: 
Phosphate decreased – Very 
common 
Risk is included in EU-SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8: 
Section 4.4: 
[…] hyperlipidaemia and 
hypertriglyceridaemia have 
been reported in clinical trials 
(see section 4.8). 
Section 4.8: 
Cholesterol increased, 
triglycerides increased – Very 
common 
Information provided in EU-
SPC Section 4.2: 
Paediatric patients (<18 years) 
Afinitor is not recommended 
for use in children and 
adolescents due to lack of data 
on safety and efficacy. 
Information provided in EU-
SPC section 4.6. 
Based on non clinical findings, 
male fertility may be 
compromised by treatment 
with everolimus (see section 
5.3). 
Women of childbearing 
potential must use an effective 
method of contraception while 
receiving everolimus. 
There are no or limited amount 
of data from the use of 
everolimus in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive 
toxicity effects (see section 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Patients with renal impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Patients with severe hepatic 
impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Study CRAD001X2102: 
Investigation of everolimus in 
patients with hepatic impairment  
Child-Pugh class C 
Page 70 of 75 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
5.3). 
Everolimus is not 
recommended during 
pregnancy and in women of 
childbearing potential not 
using contraception. 
It is not known whether 
everolimus is excreted in 
breast milk. However, in rats, 
everolimus and/or its 
metabolites readily pass into 
the milk. Therefore, women 
taking everolimus should not 
breast-feed. 
Information provided in EU-
SPC Sections 4.2 and 5.2. 
Section 4.2: 
No dose adjustment is required 
(see section 5.2). 
Section 5.2: 
In a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis of 
170 patients with advanced 
solid tumours, no significant 
influence of creatinine 
clearance (25-178 ml/min) was 
detected on CL/F of 
everolimus. Post-transplant 
renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance range 11-107 
ml/min) did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of 
everolimus in transplant 
patients. 
Information provided in EU-
SPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.2. 
Section 4.2: 
For patients with moderate 
hepatic impairment (Child-
Pugh class B), the dose should 
be reduced to 5 mg daily. 
Everolimus has not been 
evaluated in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh class C) and is not 
recommended for use in this 
patient population (see sections 
4.4 and 5.2). 
Section 4.4: 
Afinitor should not be used in 
patients with severe hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh class 
 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
C) (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Section 5.2: 
The impact of severe hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh class 
C) on the pharmacokinetics of 
everolimus has not been 
assessed (see sections 4.2 and 
4.4). 
None 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Patients with other morbidities: 
Patients with pre-existing 
infections (other than systemic 
invasive fungal infections) 
Patients with CNS metastases 
Patients with HIV or hepatitis B 
or C seropositivity 
Patients with bleeding diathesis 
Patients with coagulation 
disorders 
Patients with severe cardiac 
disease 
Patients with impairment of 
gastrointestinal function 
Patients undergoing chronic 
treatment with steroids or 
another immunosuppressive 
agent 
Patients who have undergone 
surgery within 2 weeks prior to 
treatment 
Long-term safety 
Race other than Caucasian 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the medicinal product Afinitor containing the active substance everolimus is considered 
satisfactory when used in accordance with the conditions defined in the SPC. 
Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical  performance  have  been 
investigated and controlled in a satisfactory manner. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The preclinical safety profile of everolimus was assessed in mice, rats, minipigs, monkeys and rabbits. 
The major target organs were male and female reproductive systems (testicular tubular degeneration, 
reduced  sperm  content  in  epididymides  and  uterine  atrophy)  in  several  species;  lungs  (increased 
alveolar macrophages) in rats and mice; pancreas (degranulation and vacuolation of exocrine cells in 
monkeys and minipigs, respectively, and degeneration of islet cells in monkeys), and eyes (lenticular 
anterior suture line opacities) in rats only. Minor kidney changes were seen in the rat (exacerbation of 
Page 71 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
age-related lipofuscin in tubular epithelium, increases in hydronephrosis) and mouse (exacerbation of 
background lesions). There was no indication of kidney toxicity in monkeys or minipigs. 
Everolimus  appeared  to  spontaneously  exacerbate  background  diseases  (chronic  myocarditis  in  rats, 
coxsackie virus infection of plasma and heart in monkeys, coccidian infestation of the gastrointestinal 
tract  in  minipigs,  skin  lesions  in  mice  and  monkeys).  These  findings  were  generally  observed  at 
systemic exposure levels within the range of therapeutic exposure or above, with the exception of the 
findings in rats, which occurred below therapeutic exposure due to a high tissue distribution. 
In a male fertility study in rats, testicular morphology was affected at 0.5 mg/kg and above, and sperm 
motility,  sperm  head  count,  and  plasma  testosterone  levels  were  diminished  at  5 mg/kg,  which  is 
within  the  range  of  therapeutic  exposure  and  which  caused  a  reduction  in  male  fertility.  There  was 
evidence  of  reversibility.  Female  fertility  was  not  affected,  but  everolimus  crossed  the  placenta  and 
was toxic to the foetus. In rats, everolimus caused embryo/foetotoxicity at systemic exposure below 
the  therapeutic  level. This was  manifested  as  mortality  and  reduced  foetal  weight. The  incidence  of 
skeletal variations and malformations (e.g. sternal cleft) was increased at 0.3 and 0.9 mg/kg. In rabbits, 
embryotoxicity was evident in an increase in late resorptions. 
Genotoxicity studies covering relevant genotoxicity endpoints showed no evidence of clastogenic or 
mutagenic  activity.  Administration  of  everolimus  for  up  to  2 years  did  not  indicate  any  oncogenic 
potential in mice and rats up to the highest doses, corresponding respectively to 4.3 and 0.2 times the 
estimated clinical exposure. 
Efficacy 
The  C2240  study,  a  phase  III,  international,  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind  study  comparing 
everolimus 10 mg/day and placebo, both in conjunction with best supportive care, was conducted in 
patients  with  metastatic  renal  cell  carcinoma  whose  disease  had  progressed  despite  prior  treatment 
with  VEGFR-TKI  therapy  (sunitinib,  sorafenib,  or  both  sunitinib  and  sorafenib).  Prior  therapy  with 
bevacizumab  and  interferon-α  was  also  permitted.  Patients  were  stratified  according  to  MSKCC 
prognostic score (favourable- vs. intermediate- vs. poor-risk groups) and prior anticancer therapy (1 vs. 
2 prior VEGFR-TKIs). 
Progression-free  survival  (PFS),  documented  using  RECIST  (Response  Evaluation  Criteria  in  Solid 
Tumours)  and  assessed  via  a  blinded,  independent  central  review,  was  the  primary  endpoint. 
Secondary  endpoints  included  safety,  objective  tumour  response  rate  (ORR),  overall  survival  (OS), 
disease-related  symptoms  (DRS),  and  quality  of  life  (QoL).  After  documented  radiological 
progression, patients could be unblinded by the investigator: those randomised to placebo were then 
able  to  receive  open-label  everolimus  10 mg/day.  The  Independent  Data  Monitoring  Committee 
recommended  termination  of  this  trial  at  the  time  of  the  second  interim  analysis  as  the  primary 
endpoint had been met. 
In  total,  416 patients  were  randomised  2:1  to  receive  everolimus  (n=277)  or  placebo  (n=139). 
Demographics  were  well  balanced  (pooled  median  age  [61 years;  range  27-85],  77%  male,  88% 
Caucasian, number of prior VEGFR-TKI therapies [1-74%, 2-26%]). In the final analysis with a cut-
off date of 28 February 2008, which included 6 patients more than the interim analysis with a total of 
277 patients, the median PFS was 4.90 months in the everolimus group (95% CI 3.98- 5.52) and 1.87 
months in the placebo group (95% CI 1.84-1.94) with a HR of 0.33 (95% CI 0.25-0.43), resulting in a 
difference of approximately 3 months. Everolimus was superior to placebo for the primary endpoint of 
PFS, with a statistically significant 67% reduction in the risk of progression or death. Six-month PFS 
rates were 36% for everolimus therapy compared with 9% for placebo. Confirmed objective tumour 
responses  were  observed  in  5 patients  (2%)  receiving  everolimus,  while  none  were  observed  in 
patients receiving placebo. Therefore, the PFS advantage primarily reflects the population with disease 
stabilisation.  No  statistically  significant  treatment-related  difference  in  OS  was  noted  (HR 0.87; 
95%CI  0.65-1.17;  p=0.177).  It  is  possible that  crossover  to  open-label  everolimus  following  disease 
progression  for  patients  allocated  to  placebo  confounded  the  detection  of  any  treatment-related 
difference in overall survival. 
Page 72 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The main toxicities are not unexpected given the known class effects of mTOR inhibitors. The safety 
data  described  in  study  C2240  reflects  exposure  to  everolimus  (n=274)  and  placebo  (n=137)  in  a 
randomised phase III study for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. In total, 165 patients 
were exposed to everolimus 10 mg/day for ≥4 months. The median age of patients was 61 years (range 
27-85).  The  median  duration  of  blinded  study  treatment  was  141 days  (range  19-451)  for  patients 
receiving everolimus and 60 days (range 21-295) for those receiving placebo. 
The toxicological profile of everolimus 10 mg monotherapy was described as being mainly:  
•  gastrointestinal  (stomatitis,  aphthous  stomatitis,  mucosal  inflammation,  dry  mouth,  nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea, anorexia)  
respiratory (cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis epistaxis) 
infection-related  
affecting the body as a whole (peripheral oedema, headache, pyrexia, asthenia) 
skin-related (rash, pruritus, dry skin, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  metabolic (hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia, hypercholesteremia) 
•  haematologic (anaemia, thrombocytopenia). 
Moreover, AEs related to investigations, eye disorders and nervous system were reported at least 5 % 
more often as in the placebo arm as an indicator of causality.  Most of the reported toxicity was mild 
to moderate.   
The  rates  of  adverse  reactions  resulting  in  permanent  discontinuation  were  7%  and  0%  for  the 
everolimus  and  placebo  treatment  groups, respectively.  Most  adverse reactions were  grade 1  or  2  in 
severity.  Grade 3  or  4  adverse  reactions  were  reported  in  39%  versus  7%  of  patients  receiving 
everolimus  and  placebo,  respectively.  Adverse  events  have  been  specifically  addressed:  stomatitis 
/mucositis, infections, cytopenias, rash and similar events, metabolic events, renal events, pulmonary 
events, bleeding and thromboembolic events, hepatic events. The incidence of severe adverse events, 
serious adverse events and events leading to treatment discontinuation are higher compared to placebo. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these concerns. 
•  User consultation 
User testing of the PL was performed in English. The user testing of the PL was judged as acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The results for the study C2240 for the primary endpoint PFS was considered statistically significant: 
the  median  PFS  for  everolimus  was  4.90  months  compared  to  1.87  months  for  placebo  control.  In 
addition, the majority of patients from the placebo group crossed over to open label everolimus. These 
patients had a median PFS of 5.09 months based on investigators assessment of response. However, 
the CHMP commented that a gain in PFS may not be clinically relevant since it was not accompanied 
by supportive benefit in terms of OS, ORR, QoL and PRO data. Most importantly, there was no effect 
on OS where everolimus-treated patients had a median OS of 14.75 months compared to 14.39 months 
for placebo in the ITT population (HR 0.87; 95%CI 0.65-1.1) (data cut off 15 November 2008).  
The CHMP requested the advice of the Scientific Advisory Group in Oncology (SAG-O) on the issue 
of the relevance of a gain of approximately of 3 months PFS in relation to a lack of additional support 
from  OS,  QoL  and  PRO.  The  SAG  agreed  that  PFS  can  be  an  appropriate  endpoint  for  the 
demonstration  of benefit in  this  setting,  although  this  was  dependent on  the  magnitude of the effect 
and on any associated benefits in terms of other relevant clinical endpoints. The SAG members agreed 
Page 73 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that  the  observed  difference  of  about  3  months  in  median  PFS  for  everolimus  compared  to  placebo 
constitutes  a  clear  sign  of  anti-tumour  activity.  The  SAG  discussed  whether  this  could  constitute  a 
clinically significant benefit on its own. Most SAG members agreed that although the benefit cannot 
be  considered  as  established  based  on  the  observed  effect  on  PFS  alone,  in  this  disease  setting  it  is 
reasonable to assume that this effect should also be associated with relevant effects in terms of OS, 
and QoL, although this assumption remains to be proven. Supportive exploratory data, particularly in 
terms of deterioration of performance status provided some support for this assumption. Exploratory 
analyses  of  OS  aiming  to  correct  for  the  crossover  were  not  considered  to  provide  substantial 
supportive  information.  The  majority  of  the  SAG-O  concluded  that  based  on  the  data  provided  and 
reasonable assumptions, a clinical benefit could be considered as reasonably likely. 
The CHMP noted that the trial design chosen by the applicant as a crossover study of placebo-treated 
patients after evidence of progression was of concern as this would preclude a reliable analysis of the 
true  effect  of  everolimus  on  OS.  To  respond  to  the  CHMP  concerns,  the  applicant  provided  results 
from exploratory analyses showing that censoring of placebo at the time of crossover to everolimus 
did not affect the PFS in favour of everolimus (HR 0.79; 95%CI 0.48-1.29; p=0.171) in addition to 
providing  a  model  for  correcting  for  bias  introduced  by  crossover.  The  CHMP  also  requested  the 
advice  of  the  SAG-O  on  whether  the  trial  design  of  placebo  as  a  comparator  and  a  crossover  to 
everolimus at the time of progression was appropriate, given that patients had fewer options when the 
trial was originally designed. The SAG-O agreed that a trial without crossover after progression would 
have been difficult to conduct. A trial using other comparators or crossover to other salvage treatment 
was also not considered a viable option. The SAG-O regretted that insufficient effort had been made to 
collect biopsies from tumours (primaries and metastatic lesions), or in some cases normal tissues, that 
are  needed  to  obtain  data  on  target  saturation  or  downstream  events,  in  accordance  to  the  EMEA 
guideline  on  The  Evaluation  Of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products  In  Man.  Nevertheless,  a  number  of 
SAG-O members acknowledged the difficulties of obtaining biopsy material in this particular setting. 
The  SAG-O  advised  that  additional  studies  should  be  conducted  in  order  to  determine  the  optimal 
dosing of everolimus in the applied indication. 
Although everolimus showed a statistical significance for PFS in the pre-treated RCC population, the 
CHMP  had  concerns  over  the  lack  of  randomised  controlled  trials  for  OS  in  support  of  the  applied 
indication  and  appropriate  dosing.  Given  that  everolimus  is  metabolised  almost  exclusively  by 
CYP3A4,  there  is  a  risk  of  under  dosing  or  overdosing  when  co-administration  of  inducers  or 
inhibitors  of  CYP3A4.  Since  potential  interaction  is  limited  primarily  to  co-administration  with 
CYP3A4  inhibitors,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  submit  a  follow-up  study  on  the  effect  of 
everolimus  on  orally  administered  midazolam,  a  CYP3A4  substrate,  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment. The CHMP also recommended that the applicant commits to an adjustment of the dose 
by  identifying  reasonable  target  for  means  of  dose  adjustment  in  case  of  co-administration  of 
CYP3A4/PgP inducers/inhibitors. The applicant also committed to conduct meta-analyses to evaluate 
the relationships between safety/efficacy and everolimus exposure (e.g. Cmin, C1h, and C2h) using data 
of PK blood samples that are being collected in ongoing clinical studies. Dose recommendations for 
co-administration  of  everolimus  with  potent  inhibitors  will  be  provided  together  with  target 
concentrations and an evaluation of the potential benefit associated with therapeutic drug monitoring. 
Variability  in  interaction  effects  between  individuals  and  difference  in  interaction  effects  between 
different potent inhibitors will also be addressed by applicant. As everolimus has not been evaluated in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment, the CHMP does not recommend the use of everolimus in this 
patient’s  population.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  study  on  the  effect  of  hepatic 
impairment  (Child  Pugh  A-C),  and  dose  modifications  according  to  grade,  on  PK  as  a  follow-up 
measure recommended by the CHMP.  
The CHMP also noted that the effect of food could influence absorption of everolimus and therefore, a 
recommendation  to  take  everolimus  consistently  with  or  without  food  at  the  same  time  each  day  to 
ensure consistency of dosing interval was emphasised in the SPC.  
The  CHMP  noted  that  close  monitoring  for  adverse  event  reports  concerning  renal  toxicity,  cardiac 
failure,  severe  infections,  exacerbation  of  background  diseases  (e.g.  myocarditis),  non-infectious 
pneumonitis,  and  missing  information  should  be  discussed in  detail in future  PSUR  submissions.  In 
Page 74 of 75 
 
 
 
 
addition, a special attention should be given in future PSURs regarding off-label use and off-label use 
in children. The applicant has provided a commitment to discuss these issues in future PSURs. 
The  CHMP,  taking  into  consideration  the  views  of  the  SAG-O  and  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the 
concerns raised during the procedure, is of the opinion that the robust analysis of the PFS results and 
the treatment effect of approximately 3 months difference for PFS is considered clinically relevant for 
this indication. The CHMP also considers that the toxicity profile of everolimus is mild to moderate 
and that the efficacy demonstrated with everolimus outweighs any safety concerns in the target patient 
population. 
Treatment with everolimus should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer therapies. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  Afinitor  (everolimus)  is  not  similar  to  Nexavar  (sorafenib)  and 
Torisel (temsirolimus) within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. 
See appendix 1 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of everolimus in the treatment of patients with advanced renal 
cell carcinoma, whose disease has progressed on or after treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
And 
In  addition,  the  CHMP,  with  reference  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  EC  No  141/2000,  considers 
everolimus not to be similar (as defined in Article 3 of Commission Regulation EC No. 847/2000) to 
Sutent, Nexavar and Torisel for the same therapeutic indication. 
Page 75 of 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
