23 October 2014 
EMA/794249/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Afinitor 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: EVEROLIMUS 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/001038/PSUV/0039 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 April 2013 – 31 March 2014
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Afinitor, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Afinitor holds immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to infections with opportunistic 
pathogens. A warning for pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) has been included in the product 
labelling for Zortress (everolimus in Transplant setting). 
In order to ensure that pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) is considered in the 
differential diagnosis of interstitial lung disease and to harmonize Afinitor/Votubia labels globally, 
instrumental changes are proposed to the SmPC. Prophylaxis for PJP/PCP should be considered when 
concomitant use of corticosteroids of other immunosuppressive agents are required. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding pneumocystis jirovecii/carinii pneumonia, the PRAC 
considered that changes to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Afinitor, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance EVEROLIMUS is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
