Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Recombinant Single-Chain Factor VIII (rVIII-
SingleChain) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Recombinant Single-Chain 
Factor VIII (rVIII-SingleChain). The RMP details important risks of rVIII-SingleChain, 
shows how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about 
rVIII-SingleChain's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
rVIII-SingleChain's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how rVIII-SingleChain 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for rVIII-SingleChain should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of rVIII-
SingleChain's RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
rVIII-SingleChain is a type of FVIII replacement therapy and is authorized for treatment and 
prevention of bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia A. Hemophilia A is a congenital 
FVIII deficiency. In this disorder the patient makes less FVIII and therefore needs 
replacement therapy with FVIII to either stop or prevent bleeding episodes. rVIII-
SingleChain can be used for all age groups (see Package Leaflet for the full indication). The 
active ingredient in rVIII-SingleChain is Lonoctocog alfa. rVIII-SingleChain is administered 
via an intravenous injection into the patient’s vein. The medicine is provided as a powder 
supplied in single-use vials containing nominally 250, 500, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, and 
3000 IU doses. Each pack contains a vial with Water for Injection (2.5 or 5 mL) for 
reconstitution of the powder. 
Further information about the evaluation of rVIII-SingleChain’s benefits can be found in 
rVIII-SingleChain’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA’s 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
•  https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/afstyla#assessment-history-
section 
•  https://www.ema.europa.eu/documents/assessment-report/afstyla-epar-public-
assessment-report_en.pdf 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or 
further characterize the risks  
Important risks of Recombinant Single-Chain Factor VIII (rVIII-SingleChain), together with 
measures to minimize such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about rVIII-
SingleChain's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment - so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of rVIII-SingleChain is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of rVIII-SingleChain are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of rVIII-SingleChain. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data (class effect), but the association with rVIII-SingleChain has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions 
•  Development of inhibitors 
Important potential risks 
•  Dosing errors based on assay type (ChS vs OS) used for monitoring of 
FVIII levels 
Missing information 
•  Experience in pregnancy and lactation, including labor and delivery 
•  Experience in geriatric patients (65 years and above) 
•  Experience of use in patients for ITI (off-label use) 
ChS = chromogenic substrate; FVIII = coagulation factor VIII; ITI = immune tolerance induction; OS = one-
stage.  
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic Reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
Published literature, clinical studies, and post-marketing data. 
Across the SmPCs of the product class of FVIII therapies, 
Hypersensitivity is a frequently documented ADR. With use of some 
FVIII products, cases of hypersensitivity have progressed and were 
associated with anaphylaxis. 
People with known hypersensitivity to rVIII-SingleChain or its 
excipients, including hamster protein, are at risk. General factors that 
increase the likelihood of Type 1 hypersensitivity include repeated 
exposure to the medicinal product and a history of hypersensitivity to a 
medicinal product of the same class. 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC section 4.3 and 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on signs of hypersensitivity, 
discontinuation of treatment, and contacting the physician, and 
information is given to consider appropriate premedication 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Study 3001 (phase III extension study) 
EUHASS 
PedNet 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Development of Inhibitors 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Published literature, clinical studies, and post-marketing data. 
The main risk associated with FVIII replacement therapy, whether 
based on plasma derived or recombinant products, is the development 
of inhibitors (ie, neutralizing antibodies) against FVIII, rendering 
treatment with antihemophilic factors less effective or ineffective. This 
risk is recognized as being significantly higher in PUPs, in whom 
treatment with any antihemophilic factor presents a risk of inhibitor 
formation as the risk has been estimated to be up to 35.4%. 
The development of an inhibitor can be associated with significant 
morbidity and mortality, including a higher rate of bleeding 
complications, increased disability, and a decreased quality of life. Of 
note, the clinical relevance of inhibitor development overall depends on 
the titer of the inhibitor, with low titer inhibitors (0.6 to < 5 BU/mL) 
which are transiently present or remain consistently low titer posing less 
of a risk of insufficient clinical response than high titer inhibitors 
(≥ 5 BU/mL). 
 
Important identified risk: Development of Inhibitors 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk factors for developing inhibitors include: 
•  Host related mutation: null mutations, larger deletions, intron 
1 and 22 inversion, and small missense mutations 
•  Ethnicity: 2 to 5-fold increase associated with patients of 
Hispanic and African origin compared to Caucasians 
•  Family history: increased risk with first degree family history 
of inhibitors 
•  Age: inhibitors are likely to develop in subjects < 5 years and 
> 60 years 
•  Treatment-related EDs: risk highest during early exposure, 
with a median time of inhibitor presentation at approximately 
10 to 15 EDs, and risk subsequently falling after 50 EDs 
•  Severity of hemophilia A 
•  Early FVIII treatment exposure 
•  Switching FVIII products 
•  Previous history of inhibitors 
•  Recent pro-inflammatory conditions such as bleeds, infections, 
vaccinations, etc., called danger signals. 
  The REMAIN (REal life MAnagement of INhibitors) study (follow-up 
study of the PedNet Registry and the CANAL study) which included 
260 children with severe hemophilia A and newly diagnosed inhibitors 
born between 1990 and 2009 from 31 hemophilia treatment centers 
revealed that the presence of null F8 mutations and a positive family 
history were risk factors for progression from low to high titer 
inhibitors in a univariate logistic regression analysis. Use of high-dose 
immune tolerance induction (defined as ≥ 100 IU FVIII 
concentrate/kg/d) was found to be a risk factor for progression to high 
titer inhibitors in a cox regressional analysis. With respect to product 
type, a similar proportion of patients treated with either product type 
progressed to high-titer inhibitors. 
For anti-CHO cell antibodies, patients with known allergy to hamster 
protein are at risk. 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC section 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on monitoring for development 
of neutralizing antibodies and management of patients with high levels 
of inhibitor to be directed by physicians with experience in the care of 
hemophilia and FVIII inhibitors, and information is given about risk 
factors and clinical relevance of inhibitors depending of titers 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures 
None. 
Risk minimization measures 
 
Important identified risk: Development of Inhibitors 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Study 3001 (phase III extension study) 
EUHASS 
ATHN 8 
PedNet 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important potential risk – Dosing Errors Based on Assay Type (ChS vs OS) Used for Monitoring of 
FVIII Levels 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
Published literature, clinical studies, and post-marketing data. 
No symptoms of overdose with rVIII-SingleChain have been reported. 
One patient was reported to have received more than double the 
prescribed dose, with no related adverse events to this overdose. There 
have also been no cases reported of events associated with Dosing 
Errors Based on Assay Type (ChS vs OS) Used for Monitoring of FVIII 
Levels.  
Even if an OS assay result were interpreted without adjustment with the 
correction factor, and in an unlikely scenario that resultant FVIII level 
reached up to 200%, the FVIII activity would still be below the acute 
phase reactant levels of up to 240% that have been documented in 
individuals without congenital bleeding disorders. These acutely high 
physiological levels have not been linked with any adverse reactions in 
scientific literature.  
Patients whose healthcare practitioners and / or local laboratories 
interpret results from the OS clotting assay without taking into account 
adequate guidance as provided in the rVIII-SingleChain SmPC are at 
risk. 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC section 4.2 and 4.4 where advice is given on treatment 
monitoring and multiplication of result by a conversion factor of 2.0 if 
the OS clotting assay is used, and information is given about 
discrepancies of OS clotting assay results versus chromogenic assay 
results 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Study 3001 (phase III extension study) 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Missing information: Experience in pregnancy and lactation, including labor and delivery 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
 
 
 
 
SmPC section 4.6 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures 
None. 
Missing information: Experience in geriatric patients (65 years and above) 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC section 4.2 
Prescription only medicine  
Additional risk minimization measures 
None. 
Missing information: Experience of use in patients for ITI (off-label use) 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Study 3001 (phase III extension study). 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
ADR = adverse drug reaction; ATHN = American Thrombosis and Hemostasis Network; BU = Bethesda unit; 
CHO = chinese hamster ovary; ChS = chromogenic substrate; ED = exposure day; EUHASS = European 
Haemophilia Safety Surveillance; FVIII = coagulation factor VIII; ITI = immune tolerance induction; NIS = non 
interventional study; OS = one-stage; PedNet = Pediatric Network (Haemophilia Registry); PUP = previously 
untreated patients; rVIII-SingleChain = Recombinant SingleChain factor VIII; SmPC = summary of product 
characteristics. 
II.C 
Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of rVIII-SingleChain. 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
Study 3001: A Phase III Open Label, Multicenter, Extension Study to Assess the Safety 
and Efficacy of Recombinant Coagulation Factor VIII (rVIII-SingleChain, CSL627) in 
Subjects with Severe Hemophilia A 
Purpose of the study: CSL Behring is conducting a post-marketing safety study (Study 3001) 
that will provide data to comply with the post-marketing requirements of FVIII products, as 
documented in the EU clinical trial guideline (EMA, 2012; EMA, 2018). This study will 
provide additional data on efficacy and safety including immunogenicity and inhibitor 
development. 
EUHASS 
Purpose of the study: CSL Behring participates in this ongoing pharmacovigilance program 
monitoring the safety of treatments for people with inherited bleeding disorders in Europe to 
obtain long-term post-marketing safety data (including hypersensitivity and inhibitor 
development). 
ATHN 8 
Purpose of the study: To inform treatment strategies for young children with hemophilia, and 
to document current treatment patterns in young children with hemophilia, document rates of 
inhibitor formation across factor replacement products, and evaluate determinants of inhibitor 
formation. 
PedNet 
Purpose of the study: To collect all data on treatment, side effects and outcome of treatment 
on all hemophilia patients including but not limited to PUPs. 
 
