Summary of the risk management plan for Aimovig (erenumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Aimovig. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  Aimovig,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Aimovig’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Aimovig’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Aimovig 
should be used. 
This  summary of  the RMP  for  Aimovig  should  be  read in  the  context of  all  this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-
language  summary, all  which is  part of  the  European Public  Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Aimovig’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Aimovig is authorized for the prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 
4 migraine days per month (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains erenumab 
(a human IgG2 monoclonal antibody) as the active substance and it is given by sc 
injections. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Aimovig’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Aimovig’s EPAR,  including  in its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, 
webpage: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medici
nes/004447/human_med_002275.jsp 
medicine’s 
under 
the 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or 
further characterize the risks 
Important risks of Aimovig, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Aimovig's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, 
in  the  package  leaflet  and  SmPC  addressed  to  patients  and  healthcare 
professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status —  the  way  a medicine  is supplied  to  the  patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Aimovig  is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Aimovig are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for  which  there is  sufficient  proof of a link with the 
use of Aimovig. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not 
been established for Aimovig yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified 
risks 
Important potential 
risks 
None 
Cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing myocardial 
infarction, cerebrovascular accident, transient ischemic attack, 
angina unstable and poorly controlled hypertension 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant women (including those at risk of 
pre-eclampsia) 
II.B: Summary of important risks 
Table 2 
Important potential risk: Cardiovascular outcomes in 
patients with pre-existing myocardial infarction, 
cerebrovascular accident, transient ischemic attack, angina 
unstable and poorly controlled hypertension 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
A  comprehensive  assessment  of  CV  safety  in  over  2500  patients in 
the erenumab clinical Phase II/III program including cardiovascular, 
cerebrovascular  and  peripheral  vascular  AEs,  BP  assessments  and 
electrocardiograms. The program employed an external, independent 
Cardiovascular  Events  Committee  to  adjudicate  the  selected  CV, 
cerebrovascular, and peripheral vascular AEs.  
While  patients  with  recent  (i.e.,  within  the  last  12  months) 
cardiovascular  events  such  as  MI,  stroke,  TIA,  unstable  angina, 
coronary artery bypass surgery or other revascularization procedures 
were  excluded,  patients  with  risk  factors  for  cardiovascular  disease 
(e.g.,  diabetes,  hypertension,  and  hyperlipidemia)  were  allowed  to 
participate.  Over  70%  of  subjects  had  1  or  more  baseline 
cardiovascular risk factor(s) while approximately 30% of subjects had 
2  or  more.  The  summation  of  this  evaluation  demonstrated  no 
evidence  of  a  relationship  between  erenumab  and  cardiovascular, 
cerebrovascular, and peripheral vascular events in both individual and 
aggregate  AEs.  In  the  subjects  with  2  or  more  CV  risk  factors  at 
baseline, the incidence of AEs was slightly higher than in subjects with 
0 or 1 CV risk factor at the baseline, but similar to the placebo and 
across treatment groups. 
No  relevant  differences  were  observed between these  subgroups in 
the  most  frequent  AEs  or  AEs  associated  with  cardiac  disorders. 
Looking  at  the  effect  on  BP,  there  was  no  clinically  meaningful 
difference  in  either  systolic  or  diastolic  BP  or  in  the  frequency  of 
increased blood pressure AEs with erenumab versus placebo. A few 
patients reached a post-baseline systolic BP > 160mmHg and these 
patients  were  already hypertensive  or pre-hypertensive  (defined  as 
systolic BP ≥ 140mmHg or diastolic BP ≥ 90mmHg) at baseline and 
had medical history of hypertension or other confounding factors.  
There  were  no  relevant  differences  in  change  in  CV  medication 
observed between erenumab and placebo. 
Since this is a potential risk, no attributable increase to erenumab has 
been  established.  Therefore,  by  definition,  no  risk  groups  or  risk 
factors can be identified. 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC Section 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic properties) 
SmPC Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use). 
There are no routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond ADRs 
reporting and signal detection 
Additional risk minimization measures 
There are no additional risk minimization measures. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
NIS - A Non-Interventional Study (CAMG334A2023) to examine 
patient characteristics and drug utilization patterns in migraine 
patients treated with prophylactic drugs in the Nordic registries. 
Table 3 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women (including 
those at risk of pre-eclampsia) 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC Section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond ADRs reporting and 
signal detection - Intensive monitoring of pregnancy outcomes 
Additional risk minimization measures 
There are no additional risk minimization measures. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
NIS - A Non-Interventional Study (CAMG334A2023) to examine 
patient characteristics and drug utilization patterns in migraine 
patients treated with prophylactic drugs in the Nordic registries. 
II.C: Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Aimovig. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
Table 4 
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan 
Study short name 
Rationale and study objectives 
NIS (Non-Interventional 
Study; CAMG334A2023) 
the 
during 
coronary 
circulation 
There  is  a  theoretical  concern  that  inhibition  of  CGRP  effect  may 
result in lack of compensatory vasodilation, particularly in the context 
of 
ischemia-related 
diseases/conditions.  The  precise  extent  of  the  role  played  by  the 
canonical  CGRP  receptor  in  mediating  vasodilatory  mechanisms 
remains unknown as CGRP binds to several other receptors, such as 
the amylin 1 receptor to which it binds with similar potency as amylin 
and erenumab selectively binds to the CGRP receptor. Furthermore, 
multiple pathways  and  mediators  are  involved  in  vasodilation  (e.g. 
nitric oxide, substance P, neurokinins), and it is therefore not exactly 
clear,  what  effects,  if  any,  there  may  be  from  inhibiting  the  CGRP 
pathway alone.  
In  addition,  CGRP  among  other  factors  plays  an  important  role  in 
maintaining  normal  fetoplacental  development,  fetal  survival,  and 
vascular adaptations during pregnancy. Hence, there is a theoretical 
concern that inhibition of CGRP effects could have adverse effects on 
fetoplacental development for pregnant women.  
This  NIS  will  characterize  the population  treated  with  erenumab  in 
the  Nordic  countries.  This  data  together  with  the  evaluation  of  CV 
adverse  events  from  ongoing  studies  combined  with  AEs  from  the 
post-marketing 
the 
appropriateness  of  conducting  further  post-marketing  studies  to 
assess the CV safety in patients treated with erenumab in the real-
world setting. The NIS aims to estimate: 
•  Number  of  migraine  patients  prescribed  with  a  migraine 
setting  will  provide 
information  on 
prophylactic drug (with and without CV history) 
•  Number of pregnant migraine patients prescribed with erenumab 
• 
and other prophylactic treatments  
Pattern  of  erenumab  and  possible  comparator  utilization 
(prescriber, pattern of use, length of treatment, switching) 
•  General characteristics and clinical features of migraine patients 
prescribed prophylactic drug  
•  As exploratory: rates of CV events 
 
