EMA/CHMP/249688/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004447 
Aimovig (erenumab) 
An overview of Aimovig and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Aimovig and what is it used for? 
Aimovig is a medicine used to prevent migraine in adults who have migraines at least 4 days a month. 
Aimovig contains the active substance erenumab. 
How is Aimovig used? 
Aimovig is injected under the skin using a pre-filled syringe or pen. Patients can inject the medicine 
themselves after being trained. 
The recommended dose is 70 mg every 4 weeks as a single injection. Some patients may benefit from 
a dose of 140 mg every 4 weeks, given as either a single injection of 140 mg or two injections of 
70 mg.  
Aimovig can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of migraine. For more information about using Aimovig, 
see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Aimovig work? 
A chemical messenger called CGRP has been shown to be involved in the development of migraine. The 
active substance in Aimovig, erenumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) designed to 
attach to a receptor (target) for CGRP on body’s cells. By attaching to this receptor, the medicine stops 
CGRP from attaching to it and causing migraine.  
What benefits of Aimovig have been shown in studies? 
Aimovig is effective at reducing the number of days patients suffer migraines. In a study of 667 
patients who had migraines 18 days a month on average, those treated with Aimovig had 7 fewer days 
with migraines per month, compared with 4 fewer days for patients on placebo.  
In a second study of 955 patients who had migraines 8 days a month on average, those treated with 
Aimovig had on average 3 to 4 fewer days with migraines per month compared with around 2 fewer 
days for patients on placebo. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Aimovig? 
The most common side effects with Aimovig (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are reactions at 
the site of injection, constipation, muscle spasms and itching.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Aimovig, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Aimovig authorised in the EU? 
Aimovig was shown to be effective at reducing the number of days patients have migraines. Only 
patients with migraines at least 4 days a month were included in the studies as patients with less 
frequent migraines are not usually eligible for preventative treatment. 
Most of the side effects are mild or moderate in severity. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Aimovig’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Aimovig? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Aimovig have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Aimovig are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Aimovig are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Aimovig 
Aimovig received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 July 2018. 
Further information on Aimovig can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/aimovig.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2019.  
Aimovig (erenumab)  
EMA/CHMP/249688/2019  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
