Summary of Risk Management Plan for AJOVY (fremanezumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for AJOVY (herein after also referred to 
as fremanezumab). The RMP details important risks of AJOVY, how these risks can be 
minimised, and how more information will be obtained about AJOVY´s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information). 
AJOVY's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package Leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how AJOVY should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for AJOVY should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of AJOVY´s 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It is used for 
AJOVY is authorised for prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraine days per 
month (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains fremanezumab as the active substance and 
it is given by subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of AJOVY’s benefits can be found in AJOVY’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ajovy 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of AJOVY, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about AJOVY’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Updated Report (PSUR) assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of AJOVY is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of AJOVY are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of AJOVY. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1: 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
•  Unfavourable cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-
existing myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, 
transient ischemic attack, angina unstable, and hypertension 
Missing information 
•  Long-term safety 
•  Use in pregnant women (including those at risk of pre-
eclampsia) 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2: 
Summary of Pharmacovigilance Activities and Risk Minimisation Activities 
by Safety Concern 
Important Identified Risks: None 
Important Potential Risk: Unfavourable cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing myocardial 
infarction, cerebrovascular accident, transient ischemic attack, angina unstable, and hypertension 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Due to its mechanism of action CGRP inhibitors are considered as having 
a theoretical potential to increase the risk for hypertension/ hypertensive 
crisis, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, as well as for peripheral 
arterial disorder. Patients with a history of significant cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular disease, as well as patients with a history of 
thromboembolic events had been excluded from trial participation. Due to 
the clinical trial exclusion criteria limited data are available in this patient 
group. Based on the data on cardiovascular safety in clinical studies there 
is no clear trend or signal that suggests an increased risk of cardiac 
disorders in patients with fremanezumab. In clinical studies the safety 
profile of fremanezumab was comparable across age groups without 
specific safety signals for patients with cardiovascular risk factors. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Unknown 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC sections 4.4 
•  PL section 2 
•  Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  A Long-Term Observational, Retrospective Cohort Study to Evaluate 
the Safety, Including Cardiovascular Safety, of Fremanezumab in 
Patients with Migraine in Routine Clinical Practice in the United 
States and Europe  
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  A Long-Term Observational, Retrospective Cohort Study to Evaluate 
the Safety, Including Cardiovascular Safety, of Fremanezumab in 
Patients with Migraine in Routine Clinical Practice in the United 
States and Europe  
Missing information: Use in pregnant women (including those at risk of pre-eclampsia) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC section 4.6 
•  PL section 2 
•  Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Assessment of pregnancy outcomes  in patients treated with 
fremanezumab: Pregnancy Registry 
•  Assessment of pregnancy outcomes  in patients treated with 
fremanezumab: Pregnancy Database Study 
 
 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
fremanezumab. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Study name 
Purpose of the study 
Assessment of pregnancy outcomes in 
patients treated with fremanezumab: 
Pregnancy Registry 
The overall aim of this study is to assess major adverse maternal, 
fetal, and infant outcomes during pregnancy and up to 1 year after 
birth by comparing women exposed to AJOVY before or during 
pregnancy to comparison groups unexposed to AJOVY. 
Assessment of pregnancy outcomes in 
patients treated with fremanezumab: 
Pregnancy Database Study 
The objective of this study is to assess major congenital 
malformations, spontaneous abortions, stillbirths, preeclampsia, 
eclampsia, preterm delivery, low birth weight, and small-for-
gestational age births in women exposed to AJOVY during 
pregnancy compared to comparison populations unexposed to 
AJOVY. 
A Long-Term Observational, 
Retrospective Cohort Study to Evaluate the 
Safety, Including Cardiovascular Safety, of 
Fremanezumab in Patients with Migraine 
in Routine Clinical Practice in the United 
States and Europe  
The study aims to evaluate the incidence of new onset hypertension 
and the worsening of preexisting hypertension in patients treated 
with fremanezumab in addition to the long-term safety of 
fremanezumab in both cardiovascular compromised and 
cardiovascular uncompromised patients in comparison to migraine 
patients treated with other prophylactic migraine medication. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
