EMA/16010/2020  
EMEA/H/C/003728 
Akynzeo (netupitant or fosnetupitant / palonosetron 
hydrochloride) 
An overview of Akynzeo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Akynzeo and what is it used for? 
Akynzeo is a medicine used to prevent nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting in adults with cancer who 
are receiving chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer).  
Some chemotherapy is known to induce severe nausea and vomiting, and Akynzeo is used in patients 
receiving either highly emetogenic (vomit-inducing) chemotherapy containing the cancer medicine 
cisplatin, or other chemotherapies that are moderately emetogenic. 
Akynzeo is available as capsules and as a powder to be made up into a solution for injection.  It 
contains the active substances netupitant and palonosetron (capsules) or fosnetupitant and 
palonosetron (powder). 
How is Akynzeo used? 
The recommended dose is one capsule taken by mouth one hour before starting chemotherapy or one 
injection given into a vein over 30 minutes before each chemotherapy cycle. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Akynzeo, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Akynzeo work? 
The active substances in Akynzeo work by blocking two different mechanisms involved in inducing 
nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy. Palonosetron blocks 5HT3 receptors in the gut, which are 
responsible for the immediate phase of nausea (that occurs within the first 24 hours). Netupitant works 
by blocking neurokinin-1 (NK1)-receptors, which are found in the nervous system and are responsible 
for the delayed phase of nausea and vomiting (that occurs after the first 24 hours). Fosnetupitant is a 
‘prodrug’ of netupitant, meaning that it is converted into the active substance netupitant in the body. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
By having palonsetron and netupitant or fosnetupitant together, Akynzeo helps provide control for both 
the immediate and delayed phases of nausea and vomiting than occur following chemotherapy.  
Palonosetron, has been authorised on its own in the EU since 2005. 
What benefits of Akynzeo have been shown in studies? 
In a main study comparing Akynzeo with palonosetron alone, 90% of patients taking Akynzeo (121 out 
of 135) experienced no vomiting within 5 days of starting highly emetogenic chemotherapy compared 
with 77% of patients taking palonosetron alone (104 out of 136).  
A second main study looked at the benefits of Akynzeo in patients undergoing moderately emetogenic 
chemotherapy. Around 88% of patients taking Akynzeo experienced no vomiting on day 1 following the 
first chemotherapy cycle, compared with 85% of patients taking palonosetron. The figures for day 2 to 
day 5 were 77% for patients in the Akynzeo group and 70% for those in the palonosetron group. This 
study involved 1,455 patients and the patients took dexamethasone, another medicine used to prevent 
vomiting, as an additional treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Akynzeo? 
The most common side effects with Akynzeo (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are headache, 
constipation and fatigue. For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Akynzeo authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that Akynzeo was effective at preventing both the immediate 
and delayed phases of nausea and vomiting following chemotherapy, and that the medicine has a 
favourable safety profile. The Agency therefore concluded that the medicine’s benefits are greater than 
its risk and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Akynzeo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Akynzeo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Akynzeo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Akynzeo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Akynzeo 
Akynzeo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 May 2015. 
More information on Akynzeo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/akynzeo 
This overview was last updated in 02-2020. 
Akynzeo (netupitant or fosnetupitant / palonosetron hydrochloride)  
EMA/16010/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
