ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg of netupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride equivalent to 0.5 mg 
of palonosetron. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each hard capsule contains 7 mg of sorbitol (E420) and 20 mg of sucrose.  
It may also contain a trace of lecithin derived from soya. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Hard capsule 
Opaque gelatin capsule of size “0” (length 21.7 mm) with white body and caramel cap with “HE1” 
printed on the body. The hard capsule is filled with three tablets and one soft capsule. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Akynzeo is indicated in adults for the: 
- 
Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic 
cisplatin-based cancer chemotherapy. 
Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic 
cancer chemotherapy. 
- 
4.2   Posology and method of administration  
Posology  
One 300 mg/0.5 mg capsule should be administered approximately one hour prior to the start of each 
chemotherapy cycle.  
The recommended oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50 % when co-
administered with netupitant/palonosetron capsules (see section 4.5 and clinical studies administration 
schedule in section 5.1). 
Special populations 
Elderly people 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients. Caution should be exercised when using this 
medicinal product in patients over 75 years, due to the long half-life of the active substances and the 
limited experience in this population. 
Renal impairment 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage adjustment is not considered necessary in patients with mild to severe renal impairment. Renal 
excretion for netupitant is negligible. Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect 
palonosetron pharmacokinetic parameters. Total systemic exposure to intravenous palonosetron 
increased by approximately 28% in severe renal impairment relative to healthy subjects. The 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron or netupitant has not been studied in subjects with end-stage renal 
disease requiring hemodialysis and no data on the effectiveness or safety of netupitant/palonosetron 
capsules in these patients are available. Therefore, use in these patients should be avoided. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-
Pugh score 5-8). Limited data exist in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh score ≥ 
9). As use in patients with severe hepatic impairment may be associated with increased exposure of 
netupitant, this medicinal product should be used with caution in these patients (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2).  
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Akynzeo capsules in the paediatric population have not been established. 
No data are available.  
Method of administration 
For oral use.  
The hard capsule should be swallowed whole and not opened as it contains 4 single pharmaceutical 
components that should be administered at the same time. 
It can be taken with or without food.  
4.3  
Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  
Special warnings and precautions for use  
Constipation 
As palonosetron may increase large bowel transit time, patients with a history of constipation or 
signs of subacute intestinal obstruction should be monitored following administration (see 
section 4.8).  
Serotonin syndrome  
There have been reports of serotonin syndrome with the use of 5-HT3 antagonists either alone or in 
combination with other serotonergic medicinal products (including selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Appropriate observation 
of patients for serotonin syndrome-like symptoms is advised (see section 4.8). 
QT Prolongation 
An ECG study was conducted in adult male and female healthy volunteers with oral netupitant either 
200 or 600 mg administered in combination with oral palonosetron 0.5 or 1.5 mg, respectively. The 
study demonstrated no clinically important effects on ECG parameters: the largest point estimate of 
the placebo and baseline corrected QTc interval was 7.0 ms (one-sided upper 95% confidence 
limit 8.8 ms), observed 16 hours after the administration of supratherapeutic doses (600 mg 
netupitant and 1.5 mg palonosetron). Upper 95% confidence limit of the point estimates of placebo 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and baseline corrected QTcI was constantly within 10 ms at all time points over 2 days after study 
substance administration.  
However, since netupitant/palonosetron capsules contains a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, caution should 
be exercised in concomitant use with medicinal products that increase the QT interval or in patients 
who have or are likely to develop prolongation of the QT interval. These conditions include patients 
with a personal or family history of QT prolongation, electrolyte abnormalities, congestive heart 
failure, bradyarrhythmia, conduction disturbances and in patients taking anti-arrhythmic medicinal 
products or other medicinal products that lead to QT prolongation or electrolyte abnormalities. 
Hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia should be corrected prior to administration. 
Caution should be exercised in patients with severe hepatic impairment since limited data are 
available in these patients. 
This medicinal product should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant orally 
administered active substances that are metabolised primarily through CYP3A4 and with a narrow 
therapeutic range (see section 4.5).  
Chemotherapeutic agents that are substrates for CYP3A4 
Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and can increase the exposure of chemotherapeutic 
agents that are substrates for CYP3A4 e.g. docetaxel (see section 4.5). Therefore, patients should be 
monitored for increased toxicity of chemotherapeutic agents that are substrates for CYP3A4, 
including irinotecan. Furthermore, netupitant may also affect the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents 
that need activation by CYP3A4 metabolism.  
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 7 mg of sorbitol (E420) in each hard capsule.  
The additive effect of concomitantly administered medicinal products containing sorbitol (E 420) (or 
fructose) and dietary intake of sorbitol (E 420) (or fructose) should be taken into account. 
The content of sorbitol (E 420) in medicinal products for oral use may affect the bioavailability of 
other medicinal products for oral use administered concomitantly. 
This medicinal product also contains 20 mg of sucrose in each capsule. Patients with rare hereditary 
problems of fructose intolerance, glucose-galactose malabsorption or sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency 
should not take this medicinal product.  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium per (23 mg) per hard capsule, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
It may also contain a trace of lecithin derived from soya. Therefore, patients with known 
hypersensitivity to peanut or soya should be monitored closely for signs of an allergic reaction (see 
section 4.8). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
When netupitant/palonosetron capsules are used concomitantly with another CYP3A4 inhibitor, 
netupitant plasma concentrations could be elevated. When this medicinal product is used 
concomitantly with medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 activity, netupitant plasma concentrations 
could be reduced and this may result in decreased efficacy. This medicinal product can increase 
plasma concentrations of concomitantly administered medicinal products that are metabolised via 
CYP3A4. 
In humans, netupitant is eliminated mainly by hepatic metabolism mediated by CYP3A4 with a 
marginal renal excretion. At a dose of 300 mg in humans, netupitant is a substrate and moderate 
inhibitor of CYP3A4. Palonosetron is eliminated from the body through both renal excretion and 
metabolic pathways, with the latter mediated via multiple CYP enzymes. Palonosetron is mainly 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolised by CYP2D6, with minor contribution by CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 isoenzymes. Based on 
in vitro studies, palonosetron does not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 isoenzyme at clinically 
relevant concentrations. 
Interaction between oral netupitant and oral palonosetron: 
No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed between oral netupitant and 
oral palonosetron.  
Interaction with CYP3A4 substrates: 
Dexamethasone 
Co-administration of a single dose of 300 mg netupitant with a dexamethasone regimen (20 mg on 
Day 1, followed by 8 mg twice daily from Day 2 to Day 4) significantly increased the exposure to 
dexamethasone in a time and dose dependent manner. The AUC0-24 (Day 1), the AUC24-36 (Day 2) 
and the AUC84-108 and AUC84-∞ (Day 4) of dexamethasone increased 2.4-fold, with co-administration 
of 300 mg netupitant. The pharmacokinetic profile of netupitant was unchanged when administered 
in combination with dexamethasone.  
As such, the oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50% when co-administered 
with netupitant/palonosetron capsules (see section 4.2). 
Chemotherapeutic medicinal products (docetaxel, etoposide, cyclophosphamide) 
Exposure to docetaxel and etoposide was increased 37% and 21%, respectively, when co-administered 
with netupitant/palonosetron capsules. No consistent effect was seen with cyclophosphamide after 
netupitant co-administration.  
Oral contraceptives 
Netupitant/palonosetron capsules, when given with a single oral dose of 60 μg ethinylestradiol and 
300 μg levonorgestrel had no significant effect on the AUC of ethinylestradiol and increased the AUC 
of levonorgestrel by 1.4-fold; clinical effects on the efficacy of hormonal contraception are unlikely. 
No relevant changes of netupitant and palonosetron pharmacokinetics were observed.   
Erythromycin and Midazolam 
Exposure to erythromycin and midazolam was increased approximately 1.3 and 2.4 fold, respectively, 
when each was co-administered with netupitant. These effects were not considered clinically 
important. The pharmacokinetic profile of netupitant was unaffected by the concomitant 
administration of either midazolam or erythromycin. The potential effects of increased plasma 
concentrations of midazolam or other benzodiazepines metabolised via CYP3A4 (alprazolam, 
triazolam) should be considered when coadministering these active substances with 
netupitant/palonosetron capsules. 
Serotonergic medicinal products (e.g. SSRIs and SNRIs) 
There have been reports of serotonin syndrome following concomitant use of 5-HT3 antagonists and 
other serotonergic medicinal products (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, 
fluvoxamine, citalopram or escitalopram and SNRIs such as venlafaxine or duloxetine) (see 
section 4.4). 
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of Akynzeo 
Netupitant is mainly metabolised by CYP3A4; therefore, co-administration with medicinal products 
that inhibit or induce CYP3A4 activity may influence plasma concentrations of netupitant. 
Consequently, concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) 
should be approached with caution and concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers 
(e.g., rifampicin) should be avoided. Moreover, this medicinal product should be used with caution in 
patients receiving concomitant orally administered active substances with a narrow therapeutic range 
that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alfentanil, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, and quinidine. 
Effect of ketoconazole and rifampicin 
Administration of the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole with netupitant/palonosetron capsules increased 
the AUC of netupitant 1.8 fold and Cmax 1.3 fold when compared to the administration of 
netupitant/palonosetron capsules alone. Co-administration with ketoconazole did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron.  
Administration of the CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin with Akynzeo alone decreased the AUC of 
netupitant 5.2 fold and Cmax 2.6 fold. Co-administration of rifampicin did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron. Consequently, concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 
inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) should be approached with caution and concomitant administration 
with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be avoided. 
Additional interactions 
Netupitant/palonosetron capsules are unlikely to interact with medicinal products which are P-gp 
substrates. Netupitant is not a substrate for P-gp. When netupitant was administered on Day 8 of a 
12-day regimen of digoxin, no changes in digoxin pharmacokinetics were observed.  
Inhibition of the efflux transported BCRP and glucuronidation isozyme UGT2B7 by netupitant and 
its metabolites is unlikely and, if it occurs, of scarce clinical relevance. 
In vitro data shows that netupitant inhibits UGT2B7, the magnitude of such an effect in the clinical 
setting is not established. Caution is recommended when netupitant is combined with an oral 
substrate of this enzyme (e.g.zidovudine, valproic acid, morphine). 
In vitro data suggests that netupitant inhibits the efflux of transporter BCRP. The clinical relevance 
of this effect is not established. 
In vitro data show that netupitant is a P-gp inhibitor. In a study performed in healthy volunteers, 
netupitant does not affect the exposure of digoxin, a P-gp substrate, whereas it increases its Cmax by 
1.09 fold [90%CI 0.9-1.31]. It is not excluded that this effect may be more marked, and then clinically 
relevant, in cancer patients, notably those having abnormal renal function. Therefore, caution is 
recommended when netupitant is combined with digoxin or with other P-gp substrates such as 
dabigatran, or colchicine. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/ contraception in females 
Women of childbearing potential should not be pregnant or become pregnant while on treatment with 
netupitant/palonosetron capsules. A pregnancy test should be performed on all pre-menopausal women 
prior to treatment. Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during therapy 
and up to one month after treatment with this medicinal product.  
Pregnancy 
Netupitant 
There are no data about the use of netupitant in pregnant women.  Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity including teratogenic effects in rabbit without safety margin (see section 5.3).  
Palonosetron 
There are no data about the use of palonosetron in pregnant women. Animal data do not indicate 
direct or indirect harmful effects of palonosetron with the respect to reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3).  
Netupitant/palonosetron capsules are contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Breast-feeding 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is unknown whether palonosetron or netupitant are excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling 
child cannot be excluded. Netupitant/palonosetron capsules should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with this medicinal product and for 1 month 
after the last dose. 
Fertility 
Netupitant 
No effect on fertility has been observed in animal studies. 
Palonosetron  
Degeneration of seminiferous epithelium has been observed in rat study (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Netupitant/palonosetron capsules have moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
Since it may induce dizziness, somnolence or fatigue, patients should be cautioned not to drive or use 
machines if such symptoms occur. 
4.8 Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
Common adverse reactions reported with netupitant/palonosetron capsules were headache (3.6%), 
constipation (3.0%) and fatigue (1.2%).   
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA body system organ class and frequency. 
The following convention has been used for classification of frequency: 
Very common (≥1/10), 
Common (≥1/100 to <1/10), 
Uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), 
Rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), 
Very rare (<1/10 000),   
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table1: Adverse reactions  
System organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Common  
Uncommon  
Rare  
Cystitis 
Neutropenia 
Leucocytosis 
Decreased appetite  
Leukopenia 
Lymphocytosis 
Hypokalaemia 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Vertigo 
Atrioventricular 
block first degree 
Cardiomyopathy 
Conduction disorder 
Tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Constipation 
Hiccups 
Abdominal 
distension 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Nausea 
Alopecia 
Urticaria 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Feeling hot 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Product taste abnormal 
Blood bilirubin increased 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
Liver transaminases 
increased 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased 
Blood creatinine 
8 
Acute psychosis 
Mood altered 
Sleep disorder 
Hypoaesthesia 
Somnolence 
Conjunctivitis 
Vision blurred 
Tinnitus 
Arrhythmia 
Atrioventricular block second 
degree 
Bundle branch block left 
Bundle branch block right 
Mitral valve incompetence 
Myocardial ischaemia 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
Dry mouth 
Dysphagia 
Eructation 
Haemorrhoids 
Tongue coated 
Vomiting 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Back pain  
Pain in extremities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased 
Electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged 
MB increased 
Blood urea increased 
Electrocardiogram ST segment 
depression 
Electrocardiogram ST-T 
segment abnormal 
Myoglobin blood increased 
Neutrophil count increased 
Troponin increased 
Post-marketing data indicates that the adverse reactions profile is generally similar to that seen in 
clinical trials. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Netupitant: 
No common adverse reactions are attributable to netupitant, the new component of the fixed 
combination. 
Palonosetron: 
Cases of constipation with faecal impaction requiring hospitalisation have been reported in 
association with palonosetron 0.75 mg. 
In addition, eye swelling, dyspnoea and myalgia as adverse reactions have been reported with oral 
palonosetron but not observed during the development of this medicinal product. All these reactions 
were uncommon. 
Very rare cases of anaphylaxis, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions and shock have been reported 
from the post-marketing use of intravenous palonosetron. The signs may include hives, itch, 
angioedema, low blood pressure, throat tightness, chest tightness, dyspnoea, loss of consciousness. 
There have also been reports of serotonin syndrome. The signs may include tremor, agitation, 
sweating, myoclonic movements, hypertonia and fever. 
Netupitant and palonosetron combinate capsule:  
This medicinal product may contain a trace of lecithin derived from soya. Therefore, patients with 
known hypersensitivity to peanut or soya should be monitored closely for signs of an allergic reaction. 
The signs may include hives, skin rash, itching, difficulty breathing or swallowing, swollen mouth, 
face, lips, tongue or throat and sometimes a drop-in blood pressure. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose  
Based on the experience with healthy subjects exposed to oral netupitant 600 mg in combination with 
palonosetron 1.50 mg the potential acute symptoms of overdose are headache, dizziness, 
constipation, anxiety, palpitations, euphoric mood and pain in the legs. In case of overdose, the 
medicinal product should be discontinued and general supportive treatment and monitoring should be 
provided. Because of the antiemetic activity of netupitant and palonosetron, emesis induced by a 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
medicinal product may not be effective. Dialysis studies have not been performed. However, due to 
the large volume of distribution of palonosetron and netupitant, dialysis is unlikely to be an effective 
treatment for overdose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antiemetics and antinauseants, serotonin (5-HT3) antagonists; ATC 
code: A04AA55  
Mechanism of action 
Netupitant is a selective antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors.  
Palonosetron is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor and little 
or no affinity for other receptors. Chemotherapeutic substances produce nausea and vomiting by 
stimulating the release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine. Serotonin 
then activates 5-HT3 receptors located on vagal afferents to initiate the vomiting reflex.  
Delayed emesis has been associated with the activation of tachykinin family neurokinin 1 (NK1) 
receptors (broadly distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems) by substance P. As 
shown in in vitro and in vivo studies, netupitant inhibits substance P mediated responses. 
Netupitant was shown to cross the blood brain barrier with a NK1 receptor occupancy of 92.5%, 
86.5%, 85.0%, 78.0%, and 76.0% in striatum at 6, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours, respectively, after 
administration of 300 mg netupitant. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Oral administration of Akynzeo in combination with dexamethasone has been shown to prevent acute 
and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly and moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy in two separate pivotal studies.  
Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy (HEC) study  
In a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, controlled clinical study of 694 patients, the 
efficacy and safety of single doses of oral netupitant in combination with oral palonosetron was 
compared with a single oral dose of palonosetron in cancer patients receiving a chemotherapy 
regimen that included cisplatin (median dose = 75 mg/m2). The efficacy of Akynzeo was assessed in 
135 patients who received a single oral dose (netupitant 300 mg and palonosetron 0.5 mg) and 
136 patients who received oral palonosetron 0.5 mg alone.   
Treatment regimens for the Akynzeo and the palonosetron 0.5 mg arms are displayed in Table below. 
Table 2: Oral antiemetic treatment regimen –– HEC study 
Treatment regimen  
Akynzeo  
Palonosetron  
Day 1  
Akynzeo (Netupitant 300 mg + 
Palonosetron 0.5 mg)  
Dexamethasone 12 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg  
Dexamethasone 20 mg 
Days 2 to 4  
Dexamethasone 8 mg once 
a day  
Dexamethasone 8 mg twice 
a day 
The primary efficacy endpoint was complete response (CR) rate (defined as no emetic episodes, no 
rescue medication) within 120 hours (overall phase) after the start of the highly 
emetogenic chemotherapy administration.  
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in Table 3 below.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Proportion of patients receiving cisplatin chemotherapy responding by treatment 
group and phase 
Primary endpoint 
Complete response 
Overall phase§ 
Major secondary endpoints 
Complete response 
Acute phase‡ 
Delayed phase† 
No emesis 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
No significant nausea 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Akynzeo 
N=135 
% 
Palonosetron 
0.5 mg  
N=136 
% 
p-value 
89.6 
76.5 
0.004 
98.5 
90.4 
98.5 
91.9 
91.1 
98.5 
90.4 
89.7 
80.1 
89.7 
80.1 
76.5 
93.4 
80.9 
79.4 
0.007 
0.018 
0.007 
0.006 
0.001 
0.050 
0.004 
0.021 
Overall phase 
89.6 
‡Acute phase: 0 to 24 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
†Delayed phase: 25 to 120 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
§Overall: 0 to 120 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy (MEC) study 
In a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, active-controlled, superiority study, the efficacy 
and safety of a single oral dose of Akynzeo was compared with a single oral dose of palonosetron 
0.5 mg in cancer patients scheduled to receive the first cycle of an anthracycline and cyclophosphamide 
regimen  for  the  treatment  of  a  solid  malignant  tumour.  At  the  time  of  the  study,  anthracycline-
cyclophosphamide containing chemotherapy regimens were considered to be moderately emetogenic. 
Recent guidance has updated these regimens to highly emetogenic.  
All patients received a single oral dose of dexamethasone.  
Table 4: Oral antiemetic treatment regimen – MEC study 
Treatment 
regimen  
Akynzeo  
Palonosetron  
Day 1  
Days 2 to 3  
Akynzeo Netupitant 300 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg  
Dexamethasone 12 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg 
Dexamethasone 20 mg 
No antiemetic treatment 
No antiemetic treatment 
After completion of cycle 1, patients had the option to participate in a multiple-cycle extension, 
receiving the same treatment as assigned in cycle 1. There was no pre-specified limit of the number 
of repeat consecutive cycles for any patient. A total of 1450 patients (Akynzeo n=725; Palonosetron 
n=725) received study medication. Of these, 1438 patients (98.8%) completed cycle 1 and 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1286 patients (88.4%) continued treatment in the multiple-cycle extension. A total of 907 patients 
(62.3%) completed the multiple-cycle extension up to a maximum of eight treatment cycles.  
A total of 724 patients (99.9%) were treated with cyclophosphamide. All patients were additionally 
treated with either doxorubicin (68.0%) or epirubicin (32.0%).  
The primary efficacy endpoint was the CR rate in the delayed phase, 25-120 hours after the start of 
the chemotherapy administration. 
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in Table below.  
Table 5: Proportion of patients receiving anthracycline and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy 
responding by treatment group and phase – cycle 1 
Akynzeo 
N=724 
% 
Palonosetron 
0.5 mg 
N=725 
% 
p-value* 
Primary endpoint 
Complete response 
Delayed phase† 
76.9 
69.5 
0.001 
Major secondary endpoints 
Complete response 
Acute phase‡ 
Overall phase§ 
No emesis 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
No significant nausea 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
88.4 
74.3 
90.9 
81.8 
79.8 
87.3 
76.9 
74.6 
85.0 
66.6 
87.3 
75.6 
72.1 
87.9 
71.3 
69.1 
0.047 
0.001 
0.025 
0.004 
<0.001 
N.S. 
0.014 
0.020 
* p-value from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, stratified by age class and region. 
‡Acute phase: 0 to 24 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen 
†Delayed phase: 25 to 120 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen  
§Overall: 0 to 120 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen 
Patients continued into the Multiple-Cycle extension for up to 7 additional cycles of chemotherapy. 
Antiemetic activity of Akynzeo was maintained throughout repeat cycles for those patients 
continuing in each of the multiple cycles. 
The impact of nausea and vomiting on patients’ daily lives was assessed using the Functional Living 
Index–Emesis (FLIE). The proportion of patients with Overall no impact on daily life was 6.3% 
higher (p value =0.005) in the Akynzeo group (78.5%) than in the palonosetron group (72.1%).  
Multiple-cycle safety study in patients receiving either Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy or 
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy  
In a separate study, a total of 413 patients undergoing initial and repeat cycles of chemotherapy 
(including carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, and doxorubicin regimens), were randomized to receive 
either Akynzeo (n=309) or aprepitant and palonosetron (n=104). Safety and efficacy were maintained 
throughout all cycles. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population  
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Akynzeo in all subsets of the paediatric population in prevention of acute and delayed nausea and 
vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cisplatin-based and moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).  
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption 
Netupitant 
Absolute netupitant bioavailability data are not available in humans; based on data from two studies 
with intravenous netupitant, the bioavailability in humans is estimated to be greater than 60%.  
In single dose oral studies, netupitant was measurable in plasma between 15 minutes and 3 hours 
after dosing. Plasma concentrations followed a first order absorption process and reached Cmax in 
approximately 5 hours. There was a supra-proportional increase in Cmax and AUC parameters for 
doses from 10 mg to 300 mg.  
In 82 healthy subjects given a single oral dose of netupitant 300 mg, maximum plasma netupitant 
concentration (Cmax) was 486 ±268 ng/mL (mean ± SD) and median time to maximum concentration 
(Tmax) was 5.25 hours, the AUC was 15032 ± 6858 h.ng/mL. In a pooled analysis, females had a 
higher netupitant exposure compared to males; there was a 1.31-fold increase in Cmax, a 1.02 fold 
increase for AUC and a 1.36 fold increase in half-life.  
Netupitant AUC0-∞ and Cmax increased by 1.1 fold and 1.2 fold, respectively, after a high fat meal.  
Palonosetron 
Following oral administration, palonosetron is well absorbed with its absolute bioavailability 
reaching 97%. After single oral doses using buffered solution mean maximum palonosetron 
concentrations (Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-∞) were dose proportional 
over the dose range of 3.0 to 80 mcg/kg in healthy subjects. 
In 36 healthy male and female subjects given a single oral dose of 0.5 mg palonosetron, maximum 
plasma concentration (Cmax) was 0.81 ± 1.66 ng/mL (mean ± SD) and time to maximum 
concentration (Tmax) was 5.1 ± 1.7 hours. In female subjects (n=18), the mean AUC was 35% higher 
and the mean Cmax was 26% higher than in male subjects (n=18). In 12 cancer patients given a single 
oral dose of palonosetron 0.5 mg one hour prior to chemotherapy, Cmax was 0.93 ± 0.34 ng/mL and 
Tmax was 5.1 ± 5.9 hours.  The AUC was 30% higher in cancer patients than in healthy subjects. A 
high fat meal did not affect the Cmax and AUC of oral palonosetron. 
Distribution 
Netupitant 
After a single oral 300 mg dose administration in cancer patients, netupitant disposition was 
characterised by a two compartment model with an estimated median systemic clearance of 20.5 L/h 
and a large distribution volume in the central compartment (486 L). Human plasma protein binding 
of netupitant and its two major metabolites M1 and M3 is > 99% at concentrations ranging from 10 
to 1500 ng/mL. The third major metabolite, M2, is > 97% bound to plasma proteins. 
Palonosetron  
Palonosetron has a volume of distribution of approximately 8.3 ± 2.5 L/kg. Approximately 62% of 
palonosetron is bound to plasma proteins. 
Biotransformation 
Netupitant 
Three metabolites have been detected in human plasma at netupitant oral doses of 30 mg and higher 
(the desmethyl derivative, M1; the N-oxide derivative, M2; the OH-methyl derivative, M3). In vitro 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolism studies have suggested that CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 are 
involved in the metabolism of netupitant. After administration of a single oral dose of 300 mg 
netupitant, mean plasma netupitant/plasma radioactivity ratios ranged from 0.13 to 0.49 over 96 h 
post-dose. The ratios were time dependent with values decreasing gradually beyond 24 h post-dose, 
indicating that netupitant is being rapidly metabolised. Mean Cmax was approximately 11%, 47% and 
16% of the parent for M1, M2 and M3 respectively; M2 had the lowest AUC relative to the parent 
(14%) whereas M1 and M3 AUC were approximately 29% and 33% of the parent, respectively. M1, 
M2 and M3 metabolites were all shown to be pharmacologically active in an animal 
pharmacodynamic model, where M3 was most potent and M2 least active. 
Palonosetron  
Palonosetron is eliminated by multiple routes with approximately 50% metabolised to form two 
primary metabolites: N-oxide-palonosetron and 6-S-hydroxy-palonosetron. These metabolites each 
have less than 1% of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist activity of palonosetron. In vitro metabolism 
studies have suggested that CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are involved in 
the metabolism of palonosetron. However, clinical pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly 
different between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates. 
Elimination  
Netupitant 
Following administration of a single dose of Akynzeo, netupitant is eliminated from the body in a 
multi-exponential fashion, with an apparent mean elimination half-life of 88 hours in cancer patients.  
Renal clearance is not a significant elimination route for netupitant-related entities. The mean 
fraction of an oral dose of netupitant excreted unchanged in urine is less than 1%; a total of 3.95% 
and 70.7% of the radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and faeces, respectively.  
Approximately half the radioactivity administered orally as [14C]-netupitant was recovered from 
urine and faeces within 120 h of dosing. Elimination via both routes was estimated to be complete by 
Day 29-30 post-dose. 
Palonosetron  
Following administration of a single oral 0.75 mg dose of [14C]-palonosetron to six healthy subjects, 
85% to 93% of the total radioactivity was excreted in urine, and 5% to 8% was eliminated in faeces. 
The amount of unchanged palonosetron excreted in the urine represented approximately 40% of the 
administered dose.  In healthy subjects given palonosetron capsules 0.5 mg, the terminal elimination 
half-life (t½) of palonosetron was 37 ± 12 hours (mean ± SD), and in cancer patients, t½ was 48 ± 
19 hours. After a single dose of approximately 0.75 mg intravenous palonosetron, the total body 
clearance of palonosetron in healthy subjects was 160 ± 35 mL/h/kg (mean ± SD) and renal clearance 
was 66.5± 18.2 mL/h/kg. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Netupitant 
Maximum concentrations and total exposure of netupitant were increased in subjects with mild 
(n=8), moderate (n=8), and severe (n=2) hepatic impairment compared to matching healthy subjects, 
although there was pronounced individual variability in both hepatically-impaired and healthy 
subjects. Exposure to netupitant (Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞) compared to matching healthy subjects 
was 11%, 28% and 19% higher in mild and 70%, 88% and 143% higher in moderate hepatically-
impaired subjects, respectively. As such, no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to 
moderate hepatic impairment. Limited data exist in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child 
Pugh score ≥9). 
Palonosetron 
Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect total body clearance of palonosetron compared to 
the healthy subjects. While the terminal elimination half-life and mean systemic exposure of 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
palonosetron is increased in the subjects with severe hepatic impairment, this does not warrant dose 
reduction. 
Renal impairment 
Netupitant 
No specific studies were performed to evaluate netupitant in patients with renal impairment. In the 
ADME trial, less than 5% of all netupitant-related material was excreted in urine and less than 1% of 
the netupitant dose was eliminated unchanged in the urine and therefore any accumulation of 
netupitant or metabolites after a single dose would be negligible. Furthermore, the population PK 
study showed no correlation between PK parameters of netupitant and markers of renal dysfunction. 
Palonosetron 
Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron PK parameters. Total 
systemic exposure to intravenous palonosetron increased by approximately 28% in patients with 
severe impairment relative to healthy subjects. In a population PK study, patients with a reduced 
creatinine clearance (CLCR) also had a reduced palonosetron clearance, but this reduction would not 
result in a significant change in palonosetron exposure.  
Therefore, Akynzeo can be administered without dosage adjustment in patients with renal 
impairment.  
Neither netupitant nor palonosetron have been evaluated in patients with end-stage renal disease. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data  
Palonosetron  
Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of 
the maximum human exposure, indicating little relevance to clinical use. Non-clinical studies 
indicate that palonosetron, only at very high concentrations, may block ion channels involved in 
ventricular de- and re-polarisation and prolong action potential duration. Degeneration of 
seminiferous epithelium was associated with palonosetron following a one month oral repeat dose 
toxicity study in rats. Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to 
pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development. Only limited data 
from animal studies are available regarding the placental transfer (see section 4.6). Palonosetron is 
not mutagenic. High doses of palonosetron (each dose causing at least 15 times the human 
therapeutic exposure) applied daily for two years caused an increased rate of liver tumours, endocrine 
neoplasms (in thyroid, pituitary, pancreas, adrenal medulla) and skin tumours in rats but not in mice. 
The underlying mechanisms are not fully understood, but because of the high doses employed and 
since the medicinal product is intended for single application in humans, these findings are not 
considered relevant for clinical use. 
Netupitant and combination with palonosetron 
Effects in non-clinical studies based on safety pharmacology and single and repeated dose toxicity 
were observed only at exposures considered in excess of the maximum human exposure, indicating 
little relevance to clinical use. Phospholipidosis (foamy macrophages) has been observed with the 
administration of netupitant after repeated administration in rats and dogs. The effects were 
reversible or partially reversible after the recovery period. The significance of these findings in 
humans is unknown.  
Non-clinical studies indicate that netupitant and its metabolites and the combination with 
palonosetron only at very high concentrations may block ion channels involved in ventricular de- and 
re-polarisation and prolong action potential duration. Reproductive studies in animals with netupitant 
do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to fertility, parturition or postnatal 
development. An increased incidence of positional foetal abnormalities of the limbs and paws, fused 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sternebrae and agenesis of accessory lung lobe were observed following daily administration of 
netupitant in rabbits at 10 mg/kg/day and higher during the period of organogenesis. In a pilot dose 
range finding study in rabbits, cleft palate, microphtalmia and aphakia were observed in four foetuses 
from one litter in the 30 mg/kg/day group. The relevance of these findings in humans is unknown. No 
data from animal studies with netupitant are available regarding placental transfer and lactation. 
Netupitant is not mutagenic.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
 List of excipients 
Hard capsule content 
Netupitant tablets 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460) 
Sucrose lauric acid esters 
Povidone K-30 
Croscarmellose sodium   
Colloidal hydrated silica 
Sodium stearyl fumarate      
Magnesium stearate  
Palonosetron soft capsules 
Soft capsule content 
Glycerol monocaprylocaproate (type I) 
Glycerol 
Polyglyceryl oleate 
Purified water 
Butylhydroxyanisole (E320) 
Soft capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Glycerol 
Sorbitol (E420) 
1,4 sorbitan 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Hard capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink 
Shellac glaze (partially esterified) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
5 years. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage  
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container  
Alu/Alu blister. 
Pack size of one hard capsule or 4 x1 hard capsules in perforated unit dose blisters.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland. 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/001 
EU/1/15/1001/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 27 May 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 9 January 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each vial contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant (as chloride hydrochloride), which corresponds to 
197.5 mg of netupitant, and 0.25 mg of palonosetron (as hydrochloride).  
After reconstitution and dilution 1 ml of solution contains 4.7 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 
3.95 mg of netupitant, and 0.005 mg palonosetron. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each vial contains approximately 24.8 mg of sodium. 
If reconstituted and diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the final 
solution contains approximately 202 mg of sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
White to off-white amorphous powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1 
Therapeutic indications  
Akynzeo is indicated in adults for the: 
- 
Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic 
cisplatin-based cancer chemotherapy. 
Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic 
cancer chemotherapy. 
- 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration  
Posology  
The recommended dose is 235 mg/0.25 mg (the content of one vial of powder, reconstituted and 
diluted) administered as an infusion over 30 minutes, initiated approximately 30 minutes prior to the 
start of each chemotherapy cycle (see section 6.6).  
At the end of the infusion, the infusion line should be flushed with the same carrier solution to ensure 
complete medicinal product administration. 
The recommended oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50 % when co-
administered with fosnetupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride combination (see section 4.5 and 
clinical studies administration schedule in section 5.1). 
Special populations 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly people 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients. Caution should be exercised when using this 
medicinal product in patients over 75 years, due to the long half-life of the active substances and the 
limited experience in this population. 
Renal impairment 
Dosage adjustment is not considered necessary in patients with mild to severe renal impairment. Renal 
excretion for netupitant is negligible. Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect 
palonosetron pharmacokinetic parameters. Total systemic exposure to intravenous palonosetron 
increased by approximately 28% in severe renal impairment relative to healthy subjects. The 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron or netupitant have not been studied in subjects with end-stage renal 
disease requiring hemodialysis and no data on the effectiveness or safety of fosnetupitant and 
palonosetron hydrochloride combination in these patients are available. Therefore, the use in these 
patients should be avoided. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
score 5-8). Limited data exist in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh score ≥ 9). As 
use in patients with severe hepatic impairment may be associated with increased exposure of 
netupitant, this medicinal product should be used with caution in these patients (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2).  
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Akynzeo in children aged 1 month to less than 18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available.  
Method of administration 
This medicinal product should be administered intravenously. Intravenous administration occurs 
preferably through a running intravenous infusion over 30 minutes (see section 6.6).  
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
Section 6.6. 
4.3 
Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use  
Constipation 
As palonosetron may increase large bowel transit time, patients with a history of constipation or signs 
of subacute intestinal obstruction should be monitored following administration (see section 4.8). 
Serotonin syndrome  
There have been reports of serotonin syndrome with the use of 5-HT3 antagonists either alone or in 
combination with other serotonergic medicinal products (including selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Appropriate observation 
of patients for serotonin syndrome-like symptoms is advised (see section 4.8). 
QT Prolongation 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An ECG study was conducted in adult male and female healthy volunteers with oral netupitant either 
200 mg or 600 mg administered in combination with oral palonosetron 0.5 mg or 1.5 mg, respectively. 
The study demonstrated no clinically important effects on ECG parameters: the largest point estimate 
of the placebo and baseline corrected QTc interval was 7.0 ms (one-sided upper 95% confidence limit 
8.8 ms), observed 16 hours after the administration of supratherapeutic doses (600 mg netupitant and 
1.5 mg palonosetron). The upper 95% confidence limit of the point estimates of placebo and baseline 
corrected QTcI was constantly within 10 ms at all time points over 2 days after study administration of 
the medicinal product.  
However, since netupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride combination contains a 5-HT3 receptor 
antagonist, caution should be exercised in concomitant use with medicinal products that increase the 
QT interval or in patients who have or are likely to develop prolongation of the QT interval. These 
conditions include patients with a personal or family history of QT prolongation, electrolyte 
abnormalities, congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmia, conduction disturbances and in patients 
taking anti-arrhythmic medicinal products or other medicinal products that lead to QT prolongation or 
electrolyte abnormalities. Hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia should be corrected prior to 
administration. 
This medicinal product should not be used to prevent nausea and vomiting in the days following 
chemotherapy if not associated with another chemotherapy administration. 
It should not be used to treat nausea and vomiting following chemotherapy.  
Caution should be exercised in patients with severe hepatic impairment since limited data are available 
in these patients. 
This medicinal product should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant orally 
administered active substances that are metabolised primarily through CYP3A4 and with a narrow 
therapeutic range (see section 4.5).  
Chemotherapeutic agents that are substrates for CYP3A4 
Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and can increase the exposure of chemotherapeutic 
agents that are substrates for CYP3A4, e.g. docetaxel (see section 4.5). Therefore, patients should be 
monitored for increased toxicity of chemotherapeutic agents that are substrates for CYP3A4, including 
irinotecan. Furthermore, netupitant may also affect the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents that need 
activation by CYP3A4 metabolism.  
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains approximately 24.8 mg of sodium per vial, equivalent to 1.24% of the 
WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
If reconstituted and diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the final 
solution contains approximately 202 mg of sodium per dose, equivalent to 10.1% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
When administered intravenously fosnetupitant is rapidly converted to netupitant. 
Interactions with other medicinal products following administration of intravenous fosnetupitant are 
likely to occur with active substances that interact with oral netupitant. The following information 
was derived from studies conducted with oral netupitant and studies conducted with intravenous 
fosnetupitant.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In humans, netupitant is eliminated mainly by hepatic metabolism mediated by CYP3A4 with a 
marginal renal excretion. At a dose of 300 mg in humans, netupitant is a substrate and moderate 
inhibitor of CYP3A4. Palonosetron is eliminated from the body through both renal excretion and 
metabolic pathways, with the latter mediated via multiple CYP enzymes. Palonosetron is mainly 
metabolised by CYP2D6, with minor contribution by CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 isoenzymes. Based on in 
vitro studies, palonosetron does not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 isoenzyme at clinically 
relevant concentrations. 
Interaction between oral netupitant and oral palonosetron 
No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed between oral netupitant and 
oral palonosetron.  
Interaction with CYP3A4 substrates 
Dexamethasone 
Co-administration of a single oral dose of 300 mg netupitant or a single intravenous dose of 235 mg 
fosnetupitant with a dexamethasone regimen (20 mg on Day 1, followed by 8 mg twice daily from 
Day 2 to Day 4) significantly increased the exposure to dexamethasone in a time and dose dependent 
manner. The AUC84-∞ (Day 4) of dexamethasone increased 2.4-fold with co-administration of 300 mg 
netupitant or 235 mg fosnetupitant. The pharmacokinetic profile of netupitant was unchanged when 
administered in combination with dexamethasone.  
As such, the oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50% when co-administered 
with fosnetupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride combination (see section 4.2). 
Chemotherapeutic medicinal products (docetaxel, etoposide, cyclophosphamide) 
Exposure to docetaxel and etoposide was increased 37% and 21%, respectively, when co-administered 
with netupitant/palonosetron capsules. No consistent effect was seen with cyclophosphamide after 
netupitant co-administration.  
Oral contraceptives 
Netupitant/palonosetron capsules, when given with a single oral dose of 60 μg ethinylestradiol and 
300 μg levonorgestrel had no significant effect on the AUC of ethinylestradiol and increased the AUC 
of levonorgestrel by 1.4-fold; clinical effects on the efficacy of hormonal contraception are unlikely. 
No relevant changes of netupitant and palonosetron pharmacokinetics were observed.   
Erythromycin and Midazolam 
Exposure to erythromycin and midazolam was increased approximately 1.3 and 2.4 fold, respectively, 
when each was co-administered with netupitant administered orally. These effects were not considered 
clinically important. The pharmacokinetic profile of netupitant was unaffected by the concomitant 
administration of either midazolam or erythromycin. The potential effects of increased plasma 
concentrations of midazolam or other benzodiazepines metabolised via CYP3A4 (alprazolam, 
triazolam) should be considered when coadministering these active substances with netupitant and 
palonosetron hydrochloride combination. 
Serotonergic medicinal products (e.g. SSRIs and SNRIs) 
There have been reports of serotonin syndrome following concomitant use of 5-HT3 antagonists and 
other serotonergic medicinal products (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, 
fluvoxamine, citalopram or escitalopram and SNRIs such as venlafaxine or duloxetine) (see 
section 4.4). 
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of Akynzeo 
Netupitant is mainly metabolised by CYP3A4; therefore, co-administration with medicinal products 
that inhibit or induce CYP3A4 activity may influence plasma concentrations of netupitant. 
Consequently, concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) should 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be approached with caution and concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., 
rifampicin) should be avoided. Moreover, this medicinal product should be used with caution in 
patients receiving concomitant orally administered active substances with a narrow therapeutic range 
that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, 
alfentanil, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, and quinidine. 
Effect of ketoconazole and rifampicin 
Administration of the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole with netupitant/palonosetron capsules 
administered orally increased the AUC of netupitant 1.8 fold and Cmax 1.3 fold when compared to the 
administration of Akynzeo alone. Co-administration with ketoconazole did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron.  
Administration of the CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin with Akynzeo administered orally alone decreased 
the AUC of netupitant 5.2 fold and Cmax 2.6 fold. Co-administration of rifampicin did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron. Consequently, concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 
inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) should be approached with caution and concomitant administration with 
strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be avoided. 
Additional interactions 
Fosnetupitant/palonosetron powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is unlikely to interact with 
medicinal products which are P-gp substrates. Netupitant is not a substrate for P-gp. When netupitant 
was administered on Day 8 of a 12-day regimen of digoxin, no changes in digoxin pharmacokinetics 
were observed.  
Inhibition of the efflux transporter BCRP by fosenetupitant netupitant and its metabolites is unlikely 
and, if it occurs, of scarce clinical relevance. 
In vitro data shows that fosnetupitant inhibits UGT2B7 / UGT2B15 and netupitant inhibits UGT2B7, 
the magnitude of such an effect in the clinical setting is not established. Caution is therefore 
recommended when netupitant and fosnetupitant is combined with an oral substrate of this enzyme 
(e.g. zidovudine, valproic acid, morphine). 
In vitro data suggests that netupitant inhibits the efflux of transporter BCRP. The clinical relevance of 
this effect is not established. 
In vitro data show that netupitant is a P-gp inhibitor. In a study performed in healthy volunteers, 
netupitant does not affect the exposure of digoxin, a P-gp substrate, whereas it increases its Cmax by 
1.09 fold [90%CI 0.9-1.31]. It is not excluded that this effect may be more marked, and then clinically 
relevant, in cancer patients, notably those having abnormal renal function. Therefore, caution is 
recommended when netupitant is combined with digoxin or with other P-gp substrates such as 
dabigatran, or colchicine. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Akynzeo contains a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, palonosetron that may increase QT interval 
prolongation. Therefore, caution should be exercised in concomitant use with medicinal products that 
increase the QT interval, including but not limited to: levofloxacine, amytriptyline, alfuzosin, 
azythromicin, arsenic trioxide (see section 4.4). 
Furthermore, caution is advised in case of fosnetupitant/palonosetron concomitantly with medicinal 
products known to induce hypokalaemia, such as ampicillin, albuterol, terbutaline, furosemide, 
thiazides, or medicinal products known to induce bradycardia, such as beta blockers, verapamil, 
diltiazem, digitalis, and antiarrhythmics. . 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females 
Women of childbearing potential should not be pregnant or become pregnant while on treatment with 
fosnetupitant/ palonosetron powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. A pregnancy test should 
be performed on all pre-menopausal women prior to treatment. Women of childbearing potential must 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
use effective contraception during therapy and up to one month after treatment with this medicinal 
product.  
Pregnancy 
Fosnetupitant 
There are no data about the use of fosnetupitant or netupitant in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity including teratogenic effects in rabbit without safety margin 
(see section 5.3).  
Palonosetron 
There are no data about the use of palonosetron in pregnant women. Animal data do not indicate direct 
or indirect harmful effects of palonosetron with the respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Akynzeo is contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether palonosetron or netupitant are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Akynzeo should not be used during breast-feeding. Breast-
feeding should be discontinued during treatment with this medicinal product and for 1 month after the 
last dose. 
Fertility 
Fosnetupitant 
No effect on fertility has been observed in animal studies. 
Palonosetron  
Degeneration of seminiferous epithelium has been observed in rat study (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Akynzeo has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Since it may induce 
dizziness, somnolence or fatigue, patients should be cautioned not to drive or use machines if such 
symptoms occur. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
Common adverse reactions reported with Akynzeo were headache (3.6%), constipation (3.0%) and 
fatigue (1.2%).  None of these events was serious.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA body system organ class and frequency. 
The following convention has been used for classification of frequency: 
Very common (≥1/10),  
Common (≥1/100 to <1/10),  
Uncommon (≥1/1000 to <1/100),  
Rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000),  
Very rare (<1/10 000),   
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common  
Table 1: Adverse reactions  
System organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon  
Rare  
Cystitis 
Neutropenia 
Leucocytosis 
Decreased appetite  
Leukopenia 
Lymphocytosis 
Hypokalaemia 
Insomnia 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Vertigo 
Atrioventricular block 
first degree 
Cardiomyopathy 
Conduction disorder 
Tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Hiccups 
Constipation  Abdominal distension  
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Nausea 
Alopecia 
Urticaria 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Liver transaminases 
increased 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased 
Blood creatinine 
increased 
24 
Acute psychosis 
Mood altered 
Sleep disorder 
Hypoaesthesia 
Somnolence 
Conjunctivitis 
Vision blurred 
Tinnitus 
Arrhythmia 
Atrioventricular block second degree 
Bundle branch block left 
Bundle branch block right 
Mitral valve incompetence 
Myocardial ischaemia 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
 Dry mouth 
Dysphagia 
Eructation 
Haemorrhoids 
Tongue coated 
Vomiting 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Back pain  
Pain in extremities 
Feeling hot 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Product taste abnormal 
Blood bilirubin increased 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased 
Blood creatine Phosphokinase MB 
increased 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged 
Blood urea increased 
Electrocardiogram ST segment 
depression 
Electrocardiogram ST-T segment 
abnormal 
Myoglobin blood increased 
Neutrophil count increased 
Troponin increased 
Post-marketing data indicates that the adverse reactions profile is generally similar to that seen in 
clinical trials. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Netupitant: 
No common adverse reactions are attributable to netupitant, the new component of the fixed 
combination.  
Palonosetron: 
Cases of constipation with faecal impaction requiring hospitalisation have been reported in association 
with palonosetron 0.75 mg. 
In addition, eye swelling, dyspnoea and myalgia have been reported as adverse reactions with oral 
palonosetron but not observed during the development of netupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride 
combination. All these reactions were uncommon. 
Very rare cases of anaphylaxis, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions and shock have been reported 
from the post-marketing use of intravenous palonosetron. The signs may include hives, itch, 
angioedema, low blood pressure, throat tightness, chest tightness, dyspnoea, loss of consciousness. 
Cases of serotonin syndrome have reported with palonosetron alone. The signs may include tremor, 
agitation, sweating, myoclonic movements, hypertonia and fever. 
The safety profile of Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion was 
similar to that seen with Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose  
Based on the experience with healthy subjects exposed to oral netupitant 600 mg in combination with 
palonosetron 1.50 mg the potential acute symptoms of overdose are headache, dizziness, constipation, 
anxiety, palpitations, euphoric mood and pain in the legs. In case of overdose, the medicinal product 
should be discontinued and general supportive treatment and monitoring should be provided. Because 
of the antiemetic activity of netupitant and palonosetron, emesis induced by a medicinal product may 
not be effective. Dialysis studies have not been performed. However, due to the large volume of 
distribution of palonosetron and netupitant, dialysis is unlikely to be an effective treatment for 
overdose. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antiemetics and antinauseants, serotonin (5-HT3) antagonists; ATC code: 
A04AA55  
Mechanism of action 
Netupitant is a selective antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors.  
Fosnetupitant is the prodrug of netupitant and when administered intravenously is converted rapidly to 
netupitant (see section 5.2). 
Palonosetron is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor and little or 
no affinity for other receptors. Chemotherapeutic substances produce nausea and vomiting by 
stimulating the release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine. Serotonin 
then activates 5-HT3 receptors located on vagal afferents to initiate the vomiting reflex.  
Delayed emesis has been associated with the activation of tachykinin family neurokinin 1 (NK1) 
receptors (broadly distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems) by substance P. As shown 
in in vitro and in vivo studies, netupitant inhibits substance P mediated responses. 
Netupitant was shown to cross the blood brain barrier with a NK1 receptor occupancy of 92.5%, 
86.5%, 85.0%, 78.0%, and 76.0% in striatum at 6, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours, respectively, after 
administration of 300 mg netupitant. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Oral administration of Akynzeo in combination with dexamethasone has been shown to prevent acute 
and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly and moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy in two separate pivotal studies.  
Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy (HEC) study  
In a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, controlled clinical study of 694 patients, the 
efficacy and safety of single doses of oral netupitant in combination with oral palonosetron was 
compared with a single oral dose of palonosetron in cancer patients receiving a chemotherapy regimen 
that included cisplatin (median dose = 75 mg/m2). The efficacy of Akynzeo was assessed in 
135 patients who received a single oral dose (netupitant 300 mg and palonosetron 0.5 mg) and 
136 patients who received oral palonosetron 0.5 mg alone.   
Treatment regimens for the Akynzeo and the palonosetron 0.5 mg arms are displayed in Table 2 
below. 
Table 2: Oral antiemetic treatment regimen –– HEC study 
Treatment regimen  
Akynzeo  
Palonosetron  
Day 1  
Akynzeo (Netupitant 300 mg + 
Palonosetron 0.5 mg)  
Dexamethasone 12 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg  
Dexamethasone 20 mg 
Days 2 to 4  
Dexamethasone 8 mg once a 
day  
Dexamethasone 8 mg twice a 
day 
The primary efficacy endpoint was complete response (CR) rate (defined as no emetic episodes, no 
rescue medication) within 120 hours (overall phase) after the start of the highly emetogenic 
chemotherapy administration.  
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in Table 3 below.  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Proportion of patients receiving cisplatin chemotherapy responding by treatment group 
and phase 
Primary endpoint 
Complete response 
  Overall phase§ 
Major secondary endpoints 
Complete response 
  Acute phase‡ 
  Delayed phase† 
No emesis 
  Acute phase 
  Delayed phase 
  Overall phase 
Akynzeo 
N=135 
% 
Palonosetron 
0.5 mg  
N=136 
% 
p-value 
89.6 
76.5 
0.004 
98.5 
90.4 
98.5 
91.9 
91.1 
89.7 
80.1 
89.7 
80.1 
76.5 
93.4 
80.9 
79.4 
0.007 
0.018 
0.007 
0.006 
0.001 
0.050 
0.004 
0.021 
No significant nausea 
  Acute phase 
  Delayed phase 
  Overall phase 
‡Acute phase: 0 to 24 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
†Delayed phase: 25 to 120 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
§Overall: 0 to 120 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
98.5 
90.4 
89.6 
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy (MEC) study 
In a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, active-controlled, superiority study, the efficacy 
and safety of a single oral dose of Akynzeo was compared with a single oral dose of palonosetron 
0.5 mg in cancer patients scheduled to receive the first cycle of an anthracycline and 
cyclophosphamide regimen for the treatment of a solid malignant tumour. At the time of the study, 
anthracycline-cyclophosphamide containing chemotherapy regimens were considered to be 
moderately emetogenic. Recent guidance has updated these regimens to highly emetogenic.  
All patients received a single oral dose of dexamethasone.  
Table 4: Oral antiemetic treatment regimen – MEC study 
Treatment 
regimen  
Akynzeo  
Palonosetron  
Day 1  
Days 2 to 3  
Akynzeo (Netupitant 300 mg + 
Palonosetron 0.5 mg)  
Dexamethasone 12 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg 
Dexamethasone 20 mg 
No antiemetic treatment 
No antiemetic treatment 
After completion of cycle 1, patients had the option to participate in a multiple-cycle extension, 
receiving the same treatment as assigned in cycle 1.  There was no pre-specified limit of the number of 
repeat consecutive cycles for any patient. A total of 1450 patients (Akynzeo n=725; Palonosetron 
n=725) received study medication. Of these, 1438 patients (98.8%) completed cycle 1 and 
1286 patients (88.4%) continued treatment in the multiple-cycle extension. A total of 907 patients 
(62.3%) completed the multiple-cycle extension up to a maximum of eight treatment cycles.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 724 patients (99.9%) were treated with cyclophosphamide. All patients were additionally 
treated with either doxorubicin (68.0%) or epirubicin (32.0%).  
The primary efficacy endpoint was the CR rate in the delayed phase, 25-120 hours after the start of the 
chemotherapy administration. 
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in the table 5 below.  
Table 5: Proportion of patients receiving anthracycline and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy 
responding by treatment group and phase – cycle 1 
Primary endpoint 
Complete response 
Delayed phase† 
Major secondary endpoints 
Complete response 
Acute phase‡ 
Overall phase§ 
No emesis 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
No significant nausea 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
Akynzeo 
N=724 
% 
Palonosetron 
0.5 mg 
N=725 
% 
p-value* 
76.9 
69.5 
0.001 
88.4 
74.3 
90.9 
81.8 
79.8 
87.3 
76.9 
74.6 
85.0 
66.6 
87.3 
75.6 
72.1 
87.9 
71.3 
69.1 
0.047 
0.001 
0.025 
0.004 
<0.001 
N.S. 
0.014 
0.020 
* p-value from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, stratified by age class and region. 
‡Acute phase: 0 to 24 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen 
†Delayed phase: 25 to 120 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen  
§Overall: 0 to 120 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen 
Patients continued into the Multiple-Cycle extension for up to 7 additional cycles of chemotherapy. 
Antiemetic activity of Akynzeo was maintained throughout repeat cycles for those patients continuing 
in each of the multiple cycles. 
The impact of nausea and vomiting on patients’ daily lives was assessed using the Functional Living 
Index–Emesis (FLIE). The proportion of patients with Overall no impact on daily life was 6.3% higher 
(p value =0.005) in the Akynzeo group (78.5%) than in the palonosetron group (72.1%).  
Multiple-cycle safety study in patients receiving either Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy or 
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy  
In a separate study, a total of 413 patients undergoing initial and repeat cycles of chemotherapy 
(including carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, and doxorubicin regimens), were randomized to receive 
either Akynzeo (n=309) or aprepitant and palonosetron (n=104). Safety and efficacy were maintained 
throughout all cycles. 
Paediatric population  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Akynzeo in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in prevention of chemotherapy-induced 
nausea and vomiting, as per PIP decision in the granted indication. See section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption 
Netupitant 
Absolute netupitant bioavailability data are not available in humans; based on data from two studies 
with intravenous netupitant, the bioavailability in humans is estimated to be greater than 60%.  
In single dose oral studies, netupitant was measurable in plasma between 15 minutes and 3 hours after 
dosing. Plasma concentrations followed a first order absorption process and reached Cmax in 
approximately 5 hours. There was a supra-proportional increase in Cmax and AUC parameters for doses 
from 10 mg to 300 mg.  
In 82 healthy subjects given a single oral dose of netupitant 300 mg, maximum plasma netupitant 
concentration (Cmax) was 486 ±268 ng/mL (mean ± SD) and median time to maximum concentration 
(Tmax) was 5.25 hours, the AUC was 15032 ± 6858 h.ng/mL. In a pooled analysis, females had a 
higher netupitant exposure compared to males; there was a 1.31-fold increase in Cmax, a 1.02 fold 
increase for AUC and a 1.36 fold increase in half-life.  
Netupitant AUC0-∞ and Cmax increased by 1.1 fold and 1.2 fold, respectively, after a high fat meal.  
Fosnetupitant 
After single dose administration of Akynzeo, administered as a 30-minute infusion to healthy subjects 
and cancer patients, fosnetupitant achieved Cmax at the end of the infusion with an apparent terminal 
half-life less than 1 hour. Within 30 minutes of completion of the infusion, the concentration of 
fosnetupitant decreased to less than 1% of the Cmax. The pharmacokinetic parameters of netupitant and 
palonosetron were similar to those observed after Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules.  
Table 6: PK Parameters (mean and CV%) After Single Dose Administration Akynzeo Powder 
for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion in Healthy Volunteers (HVs) and Cancer Patients 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
tmax
1 (h) 
AUC (ng*h/mL) 
t1/2 (h) 
HVs 
Patients 
HVs 
Patients 
HVs 
Patients 
HVs 
Patients 
1 median (min-max); 2 IV bolus in HVs 
Fosnetupitant 
6431 (14) 
3478 (45) 
0.5 (0.25 – 0.5) 
0.5 (0.5 – 0.6) 
2938 (12) 
1401 (46) 
0.96 (57) 
0.75 (54) 
Netupitant 
Palonosetron2 
841 (21) 
590 (28) 
0.5 (0.5 – 0.4) 
0.6 (0.5 – 4) 
13854 (21) 
15588 (32) 
36.1 (19) 
144 (50) 
2.1 (61) 
0.8 (35) 
0.55 
0.6 (0.5 – 6) 
35 (33) 
36 (30) 
43 (32) 
58 (47) 
Fosnetupitant Cmax and AUC were lower in patients than in healthy subjects, although the systemic 
exposures to netupitant were comparable. 
In healthy subjects, there was a dose-proportional increase in the systemic exposure of fosnetupitant 
with the dose increase of fosnetupitant from 17.6 to 353 mg 
Palonosetron 
Following oral administration, palonosetron is well absorbed with its absolute bioavailability reaching 
97%. After single oral doses using buffered solution mean maximum palonosetron concentrations 
(Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-∞) were dose proportional over the dose 
range of 3.0 to 80 mcg/kg in healthy subjects. 
In 36 healthy male and female subjects given a single oral dose of 0.5 mg palonosetron, maximum 
plasma concentration (Cmax) was 0.81 ± 1.66 ng/mL (mean ± SD) and time to maximum concentration 
(Tmax) was 5.1 ± 1.7 hours. In female subjects (n=18), the mean AUC was 35% higher and the mean 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cmax was 26% higher than in male subjects (n=18). In 12 cancer patients given a single oral dose of 
palonosetron 0.5 mg one hour prior to chemotherapy, Cmax was 0.93 ± 0.34 ng/mL and Tmax was 5.1 ± 
5.9 hours.  The AUC was 30% higher in cancer patients than in healthy subjects. A high fat meal did 
not affect the Cmax and AUC of oral palonosetron. 
Distribution 
Netupitant 
After a single oral 300 mg dose administration in cancer patients, netupitant disposition was 
characterised by a two compartment model with an estimated median systemic clearance of 20.5 L/h 
and a large distribution volume in the central compartment (486 L). Human plasma protein binding of 
netupitant and its two major metabolites M1 and M3 is > 99% at concentrations ranging from 10 to 
1500 ng/mL. The third major metabolite, M2, is > 97% bound to plasma proteins. 
Fosnetupitant 
The mean ± SD volume of distribution (Vz) of fosnetupitant in healthy subjects and in patients was 
124 ± 76 L and 296 ±535 L, respectively. The human plasma protein binding of fosnetupitant was 
92% at 1 micromolar and 95% at 10 micromolar. The free fraction was in the range 5 to 8%. 
Palonosetron  
Palonosetron has a volume of distribution of approximately 8.3 ± 2.5 L/kg. Approximately 62% of 
palonosetron is bound to plasma proteins. 
Biotransformation 
Netupitant 
Three metabolites have been detected in human plasma at netupitant oral doses of 30 mg and higher 
(the desmethyl derivative, M1; the N-oxide derivative, M2; the OH-methyl derivative, M3). In vitro 
metabolism studies have suggested that CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 are 
involved in the metabolism of netupitant. After administration of a single oral dose of 300 mg 
netupitant, mean plasma netupitant/plasma radioactivity ratios ranged from 0.13 to 0.49 over 96 h 
post-dose. The ratios were time dependent with values decreasing gradually beyond 24 h post-dose, 
indicating that netupitant is being rapidly metabolised. Mean Cmax was approximately 11%, 47% and 
16% of the parent for M1, M2 and M3 respectively; M2 had the lowest AUC relative to the parent 
(14%) whereas M1 and M3 AUC were approximately 29% and 33% of the parent, respectively. M1, 
M2 and M3 metabolites were all shown to be pharmacologically active in an animal 
pharmacodynamic model, where M3 was most potent and M2 least active. 
Fosnetupitant 
Fosnetupitant is rapidly converted in vivo to netupitant by metabolic hydrolysis. In patients receiving 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder concentrate for solution for infusion intravenously, netupitant 
exposure was 17-fold fosnetupitant exposure, as determined by their AUC ratio. Netupitant 
metabolites M1, M2 and M3 were rapidly generated from the released netupitant. In patients, 
metabolite M1, M2 and M3 exposures were 32%, 21% and 28% of netupitant exposure, as determined 
by their AUC ratio. The median tmax for M1, M2, and M3 were 12, 2 and 12 hours, respectively. 
Palonosetron  
Palonosetron is eliminated by multiple routes with approximately 50% metabolised to form two 
primary metabolites: N-oxide-palonosetron and 6-S-hydroxy-palonosetron. These metabolites each 
have less than 1% of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist activity of palonosetron. In vitro metabolism 
studies have suggested that CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are involved in the 
metabolism of palonosetron. However, clinical pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly 
different between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates. 
Elimination  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Netupitant 
Following administration of a single dose of Akynzeo, netupitant is eliminated from the body in a 
multi-exponential fashion, with an apparent mean elimination half-life of 88 hours in cancer patients.  
Renal clearance is not a significant elimination route for netupitant-related entities. The mean fraction 
of an oral dose of netupitant excreted unchanged in urine is less than 1%; a total of 3.95% and 70.7% 
of the radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and faeces, respectively.  
Approximately half the radioactivity administered orally as [14C]-netupitant was recovered from urine 
and faeces within 120 h of dosing. Elimination via both routes was estimated to be complete by Day 
29-30 post-dose. 
Fosnetupitant 
After intravenous Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder concentrate for solution for infusion 
administration, fosnetupitant plasma concentrations declined according to a biexponential profile. 
Thirty minutes after the end of the infusion, the mean plasma concentration of fosnetupitant was less 
than 1% of Cmax. 
Palonosetron  
Following administration of a single oral 0.75 mg dose of [14C]-palonosetron to six healthy subjects, 
85% to 93% of the total radioactivity was excreted in urine, and 5% to 8% was eliminated in faeces. 
The amount of unchanged palonosetron excreted in the urine represented approximately 40% of the 
administered dose.  In healthy subjects given palonosetron capsules 0.5 mg, the terminal elimination 
half-life (t½) of palonosetron was 37 ± 12 hours (mean ± SD), and in cancer patients, t½ was 48 ± 
19 hours. After a single dose of approximately 0.75 mg intravenous palonosetron, the total body 
clearance of palonosetron in healthy subjects was 160 ± 35 mL/h/kg (mean ± SD) and renal clearance 
was 66.5± 18.2 mL/h/kg. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Netupitant 
Maximum concentrations and total exposure of netupitant were increased in subjects with mild (n=8), 
moderate (n=8), and severe (n=2) hepatic impairment compared to matching healthy subjects, 
although there was pronounced individual variability in both hepatically-impaired and healthy 
subjects. Exposure to netupitant (Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞) compared to matching healthy subjects 
was 11%, 28% and 19% higher in mild and 70%, 88% and 143% higher in moderate hepatically-
impaired subjects, respectively. As such, no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to 
moderate hepatic impairment. Limited data exist in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child 
Pugh score ≥9). 
Palonosetron 
Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect total body clearance of palonosetron compared to the 
healthy subjects. While the terminal elimination half-life and mean systemic exposure of palonosetron 
is increased in the subjects with severe hepatic impairment, this does not warrant dose reduction. 
Renal impairment 
Netupitant 
No specific studies were performed to evaluate netupitant in patients with renal impairment. In the 
ADME trial, less than 5% of all netupitant-related material was excreted in urine and less than 1% of 
the netupitant dose was eliminated unchanged in the urine and therefore any accumulation of 
netupitant or metabolites after a single dose would be negligible. Furthermore, the population PK 
study showed no correlation between PK parameters of netupitant and markers of renal dysfunction. 
Palonosetron 
Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron PK parameters. Total 
systemic exposure to intravenous palonosetron increased by approximately 28% in patients with 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
severe impairment relative to healthy subjects. In a population PK study, patients with a reduced 
creatinine clearance (CLCR) also had a reduced palonosetron clearance, but this reduction would not 
result in a significant change in palonosetron exposure.  
Therefore, Akynzeo can be administered without dosage adjustment in patients with renal impairment.  
Neither netupitant nor palonosetron have been evaluated in patients with end-stage renal disease. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Palonosetron  
Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the 
maximum human exposure, indicating little relevance to clinical use. Non-clinical studies indicate that 
palonosetron, only at very high concentrations, may block ion channels involved in ventricular de- and 
re-polarisation and prolong action potential duration. Degeneration of seminiferous epithelium was 
associated with palonosetron following a one month oral repeat dose toxicity study in rats.  Animal 
studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal 
development, parturition or postnatal development. Only limited data from animal studies are 
available regarding the placental transfer (see section 4.6). Palonosetron is not mutagenic. High doses 
of palonosetron (each dose causing at least 15 times the human therapeutic exposure) applied daily for 
two years caused an increased rate of liver tumours, endocrine neoplasms (in thyroid, pituitary, 
pancreas, adrenal medulla) and skin tumours in rats but not in mice. The underlying mechanisms are 
not fully understood, but because of the high doses employed and since the medicinal product is 
intended for single application in humans, these findings are not considered relevant for clinical use. 
Netupitant and combination with palonosetron 
Effects in non-clinical studies based on safety pharmacology and single and repeated dose toxicity 
were observed only at exposures considered in excess of the maximum human exposure, indicating 
little relevance to clinical use. Phospholipidosis (foamy macrophages) has been observed with the 
administration of netupitant after repeated administration in rats and dogs. The effects were reversible 
or partially reversible after the recovery period. The significance of these findings in humans is 
unknown.  
Non-clinical studies indicate that netupitant and its metabolites and the combination with palonosetron 
only at very high concentrations may block ion channels involved in ventricular de- and re-
polarisation and prolong action potential duration. Reproductive studies in animals with netupitant do 
not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to fertility, parturition or postnatal 
development. An increased incidence of positional foetal abnormalities of the limbs and paws, fused 
sternebrae and agenesis of accessory lung lobe were observed following daily administration of 
netupitant in rabbits at 10 mg/kg/day and higher during the period of organogenesis. In a pilot dose 
range finding study in rabbits, cleft palate, microphtalmia and aphakia were observed in four foetuses 
from one litter in the 30 mg/kg/day group. The relevance of these findings in humans is unknown. No 
data from animal studies with netupitant are available regarding placental transfer and lactation. 
Netupitant is not mutagenic.  
Fosnetupitant 
Daily intravenous administration of fosnetupitant in rats (at 3 times the human AUC for netupitant at 
the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy) during the period of 
organogenesis produced delayed ossification of pubis.  No effects on embryo-fetal development were 
observed with daily administration of up to 13 mg/kg fosnetupitant in rats (2 times the human AUC 
for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy). Due to 
the limited systemic exposure to fosnetupitant in pregnant rats, it is not possible to provide an AUC-
based comparison of fosnetupitant exposure in rats and humans. An increase in resorptions was 
observed with daily intravenous administration of fosnetupitant at 6 mg/kg/day and higher in rabbits 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(9 times the human AUC for fosnetupitant and 0.4 times the human AUC for netupitant at the 
recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy) during the period of 
organogenesis. No effects were observed in rabbits at 3 mg/kg/day (5.4 times the human AUC for 
fosnetupitant and 0.4 times the human AUC for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given 
with each cycle of chemotherapy).  Daily intravenous administration of 39 mg/kg fosnetupitant in rats 
(3 times the AUC for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of 
chemotherapy) during organogenesis through lactation produced lower bodyweight in offspring at 
birth through maturation, and delayed physical development (pinna detachment, eye opening, and 
preputial separation). These effects were associated with maternal toxicity (reduced weight gain and 
food consumption). No effects occurred in offspring or dams at 13 mg/kg/day (2 times the human 
AUC for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy). 
Fosnetupitant–palonosetron combination  
Intravenous and Intra-arterial administration in rabbits: for the clinical signs very slight to mild 
erythema were observed. No changes were noted at microscopic examination. 
Paravenous administration (a non-intended clinical route/misapplication) in rabbits: for the clinical 
signs very slight to mild erythema and very slight oedema were observed. At microscopic examination 
chronic inflammation (from mild to moderate), epidermal hyperplasia (from minimal to mild) of 
dermis were reported. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Mannitol 
Disodium edetate (E386)  
Sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (E507) (1M for pH adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Akynzeo powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is incompatible with any solutions 
containing divalent cations (e.g., Ca2+, Mg2+), including Hartman’s and lactated Ringer’s solutions.  
Akynzeo powder for concentrate for solution for infusion should not be infused simultaneously or 
mixed with other intravenous substances, additives or medicinal products unless compatibility has 
been demonstrated. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several different 
medicinal products, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of Akynzeo with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
5 years. 
Store the reconstituted and diluted solution below 25°C. 
The product should be diluted immediately after reconstitution. Chemical, physical and 
microbiological in-use stability after reconstitution and dilution has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 
25°C.  
6.4 
Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container  
Single-dose 50 mL glass vials with 20 mm rubber stoppers and 20 mm aluminium cap seals.  
Pack of 1 vial. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Akynzeo must be reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration. 
Preparation of Akynzeo  
Step 1 
Aseptically inject 20 mL 5% glucose injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution 
for injection, into the vial. Ensure the solvent is added to the vial along the vial wall and 
not jetted in order to prevent foaming. Swirl the vial gently for 3 minutes. The powder 
should be dissolved before the solution is diluted in the infusion bag. 
Step 2 
Aseptically prepare an infusion vial or bag filled with 30 mL of 5% glucose injection, or 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Step 3 
Dilution should occur immediately after reconstitution (according to Step 1). Aseptically 
withdraw the entire volume of reconstituted solution from the AKYNZEO vial and transfer 
it into the infusion vial or bag containing 30 mL of 5% glucose injection or sodium chloride 
9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to yield a total volume of 50 mL. 
Step 4 
Gently invert the vial or bag until complete dissolution. 
Step 5 
Before  administration,  inspect  the  final  diluted  solution  for  particulate  matter  and 
discolouration. Discard the vial or bag if particulates and/or discolouration are observed. 
Akynzeo  must  not  be  reconstituted  or  mixed  with  solutions  for  which  physical  and  chemical 
compatibility has not been established (see section 6.2). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 27 May 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 9 January 2020 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Each vial of 20 ml contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant (as chloride hydrochloride), which corresponds to 
197.5 mg of netupitant, and 0.25 mg of palonosetron (as hydrochloride).  
Each ml of concentrate for solution contains 11.75 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 9.87 mg of 
netupitant, and 0.0125 mg palonosetron 
After dilution 1 ml of solution contains 4.7 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 3.95 mg of 
netupitant, and 0.005 mg palonosetron. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each vial contains approximately 24.4 mg of sodium. 
If diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the final solution contains 
approximately 202 mg of sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless to slightly yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1 
Therapeutic indications  
Akynzeo is indicated in adults for the: 
- 
Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic 
cisplatin-based cancer chemotherapy. 
Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic 
cancer chemotherapy. 
- 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration  
Posology  
The recommended dose is 235 mg/0.25 mg (the content of one vial of concentrate, diluted) 
administered as an infusion over 30 minutes, initiated approximately 30 minutes prior to the start of 
each chemotherapy cycle (see section 6.6).  
At the end of the infusion, the infusion line should be flushed with the same carrier solution to ensure 
complete medicinal product administration. 
The recommended oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50 % when co-
administered with fosnetupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride combination (see section 4.5 and 
clinical studies administration schedule in section 5.1). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly people 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients. Caution should be exercised when using this 
medicinal product in patients over 75 years, due to the long half-life of the active substances and the 
limited experience in this population. 
Renal impairment 
Dosage adjustment is not considered necessary in patients with mild to severe renal impairment. Renal 
excretion for netupitant is negligible. Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect 
palonosetron pharmacokinetic parameters. Total systemic exposure to intravenous palonosetron 
increased by approximately 28% in severe renal impairment relative to healthy subjects. The 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron or netupitant have not been studied in subjects with end-stage renal 
disease requiring hemodialysis and no data on the effectiveness or safety of fosnetupitant and 
palonosetron hydrochloride combination in these patients are available. Therefore, the use in these 
patients should be avoided. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
score 5-8). Limited data exist in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh score ≥ 9). As 
use in patients with severe hepatic impairment may be associated with increased exposure of 
netupitant, this medicinal product should be used with caution in these patients (see sections 4.4 and 
5.2).  
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Akynzeo in children aged 1 month to less than 18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available.  
Method of administration 
This medicinal product should be administered intravenously. Intravenous administration occurs 
preferably through a running intravenous infusion over 30 minutes (see section 6.6).  
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3 
Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use  
Constipation 
As palonosetron may increase large bowel transit time, patients with a history of constipation or signs 
of subacute intestinal obstruction should be monitored following administration (see section 4.8). 
Serotonin syndrome  
There have been reports of serotonin syndrome with the use of 5-HT3 antagonists either alone or in 
combination with other serotonergic medicinal products (including selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Appropriate observation 
of patients for serotonin syndrome-like symptoms is advised (see section 4.8). 
QT Prolongation 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An ECG study was conducted in adult male and female healthy volunteers with oral netupitant either 
200 mg or 600 mg administered in combination with oral palonosetron 0.5 mg or 1.5 mg, respectively. 
The study demonstrated no clinically important effects on ECG parameters: the largest point estimate 
of the placebo and baseline corrected QTc interval was 7.0 ms (one-sided upper 95% confidence limit 
8.8 ms), observed 16 hours after the administration of supratherapeutic doses (600 mg netupitant and 
1.5 mg palonosetron). The upper 95% confidence limit of the point estimates of placebo and baseline 
corrected QTcI was constantly within 10 ms at all time points over 2 days after study administration of 
the medicinal product.  
However, since netupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride combination contains a 5-HT3 receptor 
antagonist, caution should be exercised in concomitant use with medicinal products that increase the 
QT interval or in patients who have or are likely to develop prolongation of the QT interval. These 
conditions include patients with a personal or family history of QT prolongation, electrolyte 
abnormalities, congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmia, conduction disturbances and in patients 
taking anti-arrhythmic medicinal products or other medicinal products that lead to QT prolongation or 
electrolyte abnormalities. Hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia should be corrected prior to 
administration. 
This medicinal product should not be used to prevent nausea and vomiting in the days following 
chemotherapy if not associated with another chemotherapy administration. 
It should not be used to treat nausea and vomiting following chemotherapy.  
Caution should be exercised in patients with severe hepatic impairment since limited data are available 
in these patients. 
This medicinal product should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant orally 
administered active substances that are metabolised primarily through CYP3A4 and with a narrow 
therapeutic range (see section 4.5).  
Chemotherapeutic agents that are substrates for CYP3A4 
Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and can increase the exposure of chemotherapeutic 
agents that are substrates for CYP3A4, e.g. docetaxel (see section 4.5). Therefore, patients should be 
monitored for increased toxicity of chemotherapeutic agents that are substrates for CYP3A4, including 
irinotecan. Furthermore, netupitant may also affect the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents that need 
activation by CYP3A4 metabolism.  
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains approximately 24.4 mg of sodium per vial, equivalent to 1.22% of the 
WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
If diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the final solution contains 
approximately 202 mg of sodium per dose, equivalent to 10.1% of the WHO recommended maximum 
daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
When administered intravenously fosnetupitant is rapidly converted to netupitant. 
Interactions with other medicinal products following administration of intravenous fosnetupitant are 
likely to occur with active substances that interact with oral netupitant. The following information was 
derived from studies conducted with oral netupitant and studies conducted with intravenous 
fosnetupitant.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In humans, netupitant is eliminated mainly by hepatic metabolism mediated by CYP3A4 with a 
marginal renal excretion. At a dose of 300 mg in humans, netupitant is a substrate and moderate 
inhibitor of CYP3A4. Palonosetron is eliminated from the body through both renal excretion and 
metabolic pathways, with the latter mediated via multiple CYP enzymes. Palonosetron is mainly 
metabolised by CYP2D6, with minor contribution by CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 isoenzymes. Based on in 
vitro studies, palonosetron does not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 isoenzyme at clinically 
relevant concentrations. 
Interaction between oral netupitant and oral palonosetron 
No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed between oral netupitant and 
oral palonosetron.  
Interaction with CYP3A4 substrates 
Dexamethasone 
Co-administration of a single oral dose of 300 mg netupitant or a single intravenous dose of 235 mg 
fosnetupitant with a dexamethasone regimen (20 mg on Day 1, followed by 8 mg twice daily from 
Day 2 to Day 4) significantly increased the exposure to dexamethasone in a time and dose dependent 
manner. The AUC84-∞ (Day 4) of dexamethasone increased 2.4-fold with co-administration of 300 mg 
netupitant or 235 mg fosnetupitant. The pharmacokinetic profile of netupitant was unchanged when 
administered in combination with dexamethasone.  
As such, the oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50% when co-administered 
with fosnetupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride combination (see section 4.2). 
Chemotherapeutic medicinal products (docetaxel, etoposide, cyclophosphamide) 
Exposure to docetaxel and etoposide was increased 37% and 21%, respectively, when co-administered 
with netupitant/palonosetron capsules. No consistent effect was seen with cyclophosphamide after 
netupitant co-administration.  
Oral contraceptives 
Netupitant/palonosetron capsules, when given with a single oral dose of 60 μg ethinylestradiol and 
300 μg levonorgestrel had no significant effect on the AUC of ethinylestradiol and increased the AUC 
of levonorgestrel by 1.4-fold; clinical effects on the efficacy of hormonal contraception are unlikely. 
No relevant changes of netupitant and palonosetron pharmacokinetics were observed.   
Erythromycin and midazolam 
Exposure to erythromycin and midazolam was increased approximately 1.3 and 2.4 fold, respectively, 
when each was co-administered with netupitant administered orally. These effects were not considered 
clinically important. The pharmacokinetic profile of netupitant was unaffected by the concomitant 
administration of either midazolam or erythromycin. The potential effects of increased plasma 
concentrations of midazolam or other benzodiazepines metabolised via CYP3A4 (alprazolam, 
triazolam) should be considered when coadministering these active substances with netupitant and 
palonosetron hydrochloride combination. 
Serotonergic medicinal products (e.g. SSRIs and SNRIs) 
There have been reports of serotonin syndrome following concomitant use of 5-HT3 antagonists and 
other serotonergic medicinal products (including SSRIs such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, 
fluvoxamine, citalopram or escitalopram and SNRIs such as venlafaxine or duloxetine) (see 
section 4.4). 
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of Akynzeo 
Netupitant is mainly metabolised by CYP3A4; therefore, co-administration with medicinal products 
that inhibit or induce CYP3A4 activity may influence plasma concentrations of netupitant. 
Consequently, concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) should 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be approached with caution and concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., 
rifampicin) should be avoided. Moreover, this medicinal product should be used with caution in 
patients receiving concomitant orally administered active substances with a narrow therapeutic range 
that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, 
alfentanil, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, and quinidine. 
Effect of ketoconazole and rifampicin 
Administration of the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole with netupitant/palonosetron capsules 
administered orally increased the AUC of netupitant 1.8 fold and Cmax 1.3 fold when compared to the 
administration of Akynzeo alone. Co-administration with ketoconazole did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron.  
Administration of the CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin with Akynzeo administered orally alone decreased 
the AUC of netupitant 5.2 fold and Cmax 2.6 fold. Co-administration of rifampicin did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron. Consequently, concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 
inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) should be approached with caution and concomitant administration with 
strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be avoided. 
Additional interactions 
Fosnetupitant/palonosetron concentrate for solution for infusion is unlikely to interact with medicinal 
products which are P-gp substrates. Netupitant is not a substrate for P-gp. When netupitant was 
administered on Day 8 of a 12-day regimen of digoxin, no changes in digoxin pharmacokinetics were 
observed.  
Inhibition of the efflux transporter BCRP by fosenetupitant, netupitant and its metabolites is unlikely 
and, if it occurs, of scarce clinical relevance. 
In vitro data shows that fosnetupitant inhibits UGT2B7 / UGT2B15 and  netupitant inhibits UGT2B7, 
the magnitude of such an effect in the clinical setting is not established. Caution is therefore 
recommended when netupitant and fosnetupitant is combined with an oral substrate of this enzyme 
(e.g. zidovudine, valproic acid, morphine). 
In vitro data suggests that netupitant inhibits the efflux of transporter BCRP. The clinical relevance of 
this effect is not established.  
In vitro data show that netupitant is a P-gp inhibitor. In a study performed in healthy volunteers, 
netupitant does not affect the exposure of digoxin, a P-gp substrate, whereas it increases its Cmax by 
1.09 fold [90%CI 0.9-1.31]. It is not excluded that this effect may be more marked, and then clinically 
relevant, in cancer patients, notably those having abnormal renal function. Therefore, caution is 
recommended when netupitant is combined with digoxin or with other P-gp substrates such as 
dabigatran, or colchicine. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Akynzeo contains a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, palonosetron that may increase QT interval 
prolongation. Therefore, caution should be exercised in concomitant use with medicinal products that 
increase the QT interval, including but not limited to: levofloxacine, amytriptyline, alfuzosin, 
azythromicin, arsenic trioxide (see section 4.4). 
Furthermore, caution is advised in case of fosnetupitant/palonosetron concomitantly with medicinal 
products known to induce hypokalaemia, such as ampicillin, albuterol, terbutaline, furosemide, 
thiazides, or medicinal products known to induce bradycardia, such as beta blockers, verapamil, 
diltiazem, digitalis and antiarrhythmics. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females 
Women of childbearing potential should not be pregnant or become pregnant while on treatment with 
fosnetupitant/ palonosetron concentrate for solution for infusion. A pregnancy test should be 
performed on all pre-menopausal women prior to treatment. Women of childbearing potential must 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
use effective contraception during therapy and up to one month after treatment with this medicinal 
product.  
Pregnancy 
Fosnetupitant 
There are no data about the use of fosnetupitant or netupitant in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity including teratogenic effects in rabbit without safety margin (see 
section 5.3).  
Palonosetron 
There are no data about the use of palonosetron in pregnant women. Animal data do not indicate direct 
or indirect harmful effects of palonosetron with the respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Akynzeo is contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether palonosetron or netupitant are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Akynzeo should not be used during breast-feeding. Breast-
feeding should be discontinued during treatment with this medicinal product and for 1 month after the 
last dose. 
Fertility 
Fosnetupitant 
No effect on fertility has been observed in animal studies. 
Palonosetron  
Degeneration of seminiferous epithelium has been observed in rat study (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Akynzeo has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Since it may induce 
dizziness, somnolence or fatigue, patients should be cautioned not to drive or use machines if such 
symptoms occur. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
Common adverse reactions reported with Akynzeo were headache (3.6%), constipation (3.0%) and 
fatigue (1.2%).  None of these events was serious.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA body system organ class and frequency. 
The following convention has been used for classification of frequency: 
Very common (≥1/10),  
Common (≥1/100 to <1/10),  
Uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100),  
Rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000),  
Very rare (<1/10 000),   
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common  
Table 1: Adverse reactions  
System organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon  
Rare  
Cystitis 
Neutropenia 
Leucocytosis 
Decreased appetite  
Leukopenia 
Lymphocytosis 
Hypokalaemia 
Insomnia 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Vertigo 
Atrioventricular block 
first degree 
Cardiomyopathy 
Conduction disorder 
Tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Hiccups 
Constipation  Abdominal distension  
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Nausea 
Alopecia 
Urticaria 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Liver transaminases 
increased 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased 
Blood creatinine 
increased 
42 
Acute psychosis 
Mood altered 
Sleep disorder 
Hypoaesthesia 
Somnolence 
Conjunctivitis 
Vision blurred 
Tinnitus 
Arrhythmia 
Atrioventricular block second degree 
Bundle branch block left 
Bundle branch block right 
Mitral valve incompetence 
Myocardial ischaemia 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
 Dry mouth 
Dysphagia 
Eructation 
Haemorrhoids 
Tongue coated 
Vomiting 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Back pain  
Pain in extremities 
Feeling hot 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Product taste abnormal 
Blood bilirubin increased 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased 
Blood creatine Phosphokinase MB 
increased 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged 
Blood urea increased 
Electrocardiogram ST segment 
depression 
Electrocardiogram ST-T segment 
abnormal 
Myoglobin blood increased 
Neutrophil count increased 
Troponin increased 
Post-marketing data indicates that the adverse reactions profile is generally similar to that seen in 
clinical trials. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Netupitant: 
No common adverse reactions are attributable to netupitant, the new component of the fixed 
combination.  
Palonosetron: 
Cases of constipation with faecal impaction requiring hospitalisation have been reported in association 
with palonosetron 0.75 mg. 
In addition, eye swelling, dyspnoea and myalgia have been reported as adverse reactions with oral 
palonosetron but not observed during the development of netupitant and palonosetron hydrochloride 
combination. All these reactions were uncommon. 
Very rare cases of anaphylaxis, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions and shock have been reported 
from the post-marketing use of intravenous palonosetron. The signs may include hives, itch, 
angioedema, low blood pressure, throat tightness, chest tightness, dyspnoea, loss of consciousness. 
Cases of serotonin syndrome have reported with palonosetron alone. The signs may include tremor, 
agitation, sweating, myoclonic movements, hypertonia and fever. 
The safety profile of Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion was similar to that 
seen with Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose  
Based on the experience with healthy subjects exposed to oral netupitant 600 mg in combination with 
palonosetron 1.50 mg the potential acute symptoms of overdose are headache, dizziness, constipation, 
anxiety, palpitations, euphoric mood and pain in the legs. In case of overdose, the medicinal product 
should be discontinued and general supportive treatment and monitoring should be provided. Because 
of the antiemetic activity of netupitant and palonosetron, emesis induced by a medicinal product may 
not be effective. Dialysis studies have not been performed. However, due to the large volume of 
distribution of palonosetron and netupitant, dialysis is unlikely to be an effective treatment for 
overdose. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antiemetics and antinauseants, serotonin (5-HT3) antagonists; ATC code: 
A04AA55  
Mechanism of action 
Netupitant is a selective antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors.  
Fosnetupitant is the prodrug of netupitant and when administered intravenously is converted rapidly to 
netupitant (see section 5.2). 
Palonosetron is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor and little or 
no affinity for other receptors. Chemotherapeutic substances produce nausea and vomiting by 
stimulating the release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine. Serotonin 
then activates 5-HT3 receptors located on vagal afferents to initiate the vomiting reflex.  
Delayed emesis has been associated with the activation of tachykinin family neurokinin 1 (NK1) 
receptors (broadly distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems) by substance P. As shown 
in in vitro and in vivo studies, netupitant inhibits substance P mediated responses. 
Netupitant was shown to cross the blood brain barrier with a NK1 receptor occupancy of 92.5%, 
86.5%, 85.0%, 78.0%, and 76.0% in striatum at 6, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours, respectively, after 
administration of 300 mg netupitant. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Oral administration of Akynzeo in combination with dexamethasone has been shown to prevent acute 
and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly and moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy in two separate pivotal studies.  
Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy (HEC) study  
In a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, controlled clinical study of 694 patients, the 
efficacy and safety of single doses of oral netupitant in combination with oral palonosetron was 
compared with a single oral dose of palonosetron in cancer patients receiving a chemotherapy regimen 
that included cisplatin (median dose = 75 mg/m2). The efficacy of Akynzeo was assessed in 
135 patients who received a single oral dose (netupitant 300 mg and palonosetron 0.5 mg) and 
136 patients who received oral palonosetron 0.5 mg alone.   
Treatment regimens for the Akynzeo and the palonosetron 0.5 mg arms are displayed in Table 2 
below. 
Table 2: Oral antiemetic treatment regimen –– HEC study 
Treatment regimen  
Akynzeo  
Palonosetron  
Day 1  
Akynzeo (Netupitant 300 mg + 
Palonosetron 0.5 mg)  
Dexamethasone 12 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg  
Dexamethasone 20 mg 
Days 2 to 4  
Dexamethasone 8 mg once a 
day  
Dexamethasone 8 mg twice a 
day 
The primary efficacy endpoint was complete response (CR) rate (defined as no emetic episodes, no 
rescue medication) within 120 hours (overall phase) after the start of the highly emetogenic 
chemotherapy administration.  
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in Table 3 below.  
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Proportion of patients receiving cisplatin chemotherapy responding by treatment group 
and phase 
Primary endpoint 
Complete response 
  Overall phase§ 
Major secondary endpoints 
Complete response 
  Acute phase‡ 
  Delayed phase† 
No emesis 
  Acute phase 
  Delayed phase 
  Overall phase 
Akynzeo 
N=135 
% 
Palonosetron 
0.5 mg  
N=136 
% 
p-value 
89.6 
76.5 
0.004 
98.5 
90.4 
98.5 
91.9 
91.1 
89.7 
80.1 
89.7 
80.1 
76.5 
93.4 
80.9 
79.4 
0.007 
0.018 
0.007 
0.006 
0.001 
0.050 
0.004 
0.021 
No significant nausea 
  Acute phase 
  Delayed phase 
  Overall phase 
‡Acute phase: 0 to 24 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
†Delayed phase: 25 to 120 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
§Overall: 0 to 120 hours post-cisplatin treatment. 
98.5 
90.4 
89.6 
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy (MEC) study 
In a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, active-controlled, superiority study, the efficacy 
and safety of a single oral dose of Akynzeo was compared with a single oral dose of palonosetron 
0.5 mg in cancer patients scheduled to receive the first cycle of an anthracycline and 
cyclophosphamide regimen for the treatment of a solid malignant tumour. At the time of the study, 
anthracycline-cyclophosphamide containing chemotherapy regimens were considered to be 
moderately emetogenic. Recent guidance has updated these regimens to highly emetogenic.  
All patients received a single oral dose of dexamethasone.  
Table 4: Oral antiemetic treatment regimen – MEC study 
Treatment 
regimen  
Akynzeo  
Palonosetron  
Day 1  
Days 2 to 3  
Akynzeo (Netupitant 300 mg + 
Palonosetron 0.5 mg)  
Dexamethasone 12 mg  
Palonosetron 0.5 mg 
Dexamethasone 20 mg 
No antiemetic treatment 
No antiemetic treatment 
After completion of cycle 1, patients had the option to participate in a multiple-cycle extension, 
receiving the same treatment as assigned in cycle 1.  There was no pre-specified limit of the number of 
repeat consecutive cycles for any patient. A total of 1450 patients (Akynzeo n=725; Palonosetron 
n=725) received study medication. Of these, 1438 patients (98.8%) completed cycle 1 and 
1286 patients (88.4%) continued treatment in the multiple-cycle extension. A total of 907 patients 
(62.3%) completed the multiple-cycle extension up to a maximum of eight treatment cycles.  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 724 patients (99.9%) were treated with cyclophosphamide. All patients were additionally 
treated with either doxorubicin (68.0%) or epirubicin (32.0%).  
The primary efficacy endpoint was the CR rate in the delayed phase, 25-120 hours after the start of the 
chemotherapy administration. 
A summary of the key results from this study is shown in the table 5 below.  
Table 5: Proportion of patients receiving anthracycline and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy 
responding by treatment group and phase – cycle 1 
Primary endpoint 
Complete response 
Delayed phase† 
Major secondary endpoints 
Complete response 
Acute phase‡ 
Overall phase§ 
No emesis 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
No significant nausea 
Acute phase 
Delayed phase 
Overall phase 
Akynzeo 
N=724 
% 
Palonosetron 
0.5 mg 
N=725 
% 
p-value* 
76.9 
69.5 
0.001 
88.4 
74.3 
90.9 
81.8 
79.8 
87.3 
76.9 
74.6 
85.0 
66.6 
87.3 
75.6 
72.1 
87.9 
71.3 
69.1 
0.047 
0.001 
0.025 
0.004 
<0.001 
N.S. 
0.014 
0.020 
* p-value from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, stratified by age class and region. 
‡Acute phase: 0 to 24 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen 
†Delayed phase: 25 to 120 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen  
§Overall: 0 to 120 hours after anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimen 
Patients continued into the Multiple-Cycle extension for up to 7 additional cycles of chemotherapy. 
Antiemetic activity of Akynzeo was maintained throughout repeat cycles for those patients continuing 
in each of the multiple cycles. 
The impact of nausea and vomiting on patients’ daily lives was assessed using the Functional Living 
Index–Emesis (FLIE). The proportion of patients with Overall no impact on daily life was 6.3% higher 
(p value =0.005) in the Akynzeo group (78.5%) than in the palonosetron group (72.1%).  
Multiple-cycle safety study in patients receiving either Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy or 
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy  
In a separate study, a total of 413 patients undergoing initial and repeat cycles of chemotherapy 
(including carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, and doxorubicin regimens), were randomized to receive 
either Akynzeo (n=309) or aprepitant and palonosetron (n=104). Safety and efficacy were maintained 
throughout all cycles. 
Paediatric population  
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Akynzeo in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in prevention of chemotherapy-induced 
nausea and vomiting, as per PIP decision in the granted indication. See section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption 
Netupitant 
Absolute netupitant bioavailability data are not available in humans; based on data from two studies 
with intravenous netupitant, the bioavailability in humans is estimated to be greater than 60%.  
In single dose oral studies, netupitant was measurable in plasma between 15 minutes and 3 hours after 
dosing. Plasma concentrations followed a first order absorption process and reached Cmax in 
approximately 5 hours. There was a supra-proportional increase in Cmax and AUC parameters for doses 
from 10 mg to 300 mg.  
In 82 healthy subjects given a single oral dose of netupitant 300 mg, maximum plasma netupitant 
concentration (Cmax) was 486 ±268 ng/mL (mean ± SD) and median time to maximum concentration 
(Tmax) was 5.25 hours, the AUC was 15032 ± 6858 h.ng/mL. In a pooled analysis, females had a 
higher netupitant exposure compared to males; there was a 1.31-fold increase in Cmax, a 1.02 fold 
increase for AUC and a 1.36 fold increase in half-life.  
Netupitant AUC0-∞ and Cmax increased by 1.1 fold and 1.2 fold, respectively, after a high fat meal.  
Fosnetupitant 
After single dose administration of Akynzeo, administered as a 30-minute infusion to healthy subjects 
and cancer patients, fosnetupitant achieved Cmax at the end of the infusion with an apparent terminal 
half-life less than 1 hour. Within 30 minutes of completion of the infusion, the concentration of 
fosnetupitant decreased to less than 1% of the Cmax. The pharmacokinetic parameters of netupitant and 
palonosetron were similar to those observed after Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules.  
Table 6: PK Parameters (mean and CV%) After Single Dose Administration Akynzeo 
Concentrate for Solution for Infusion in Healthy Volunteers (HVs) and Cancer Patients 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
tmax
1 (h) 
AUC (ng*h/mL) 
t1/2 (h) 
HVs 
Patients 
HVs 
Patients 
HVs 
Patients 
HVs 
Patients 
1 median (min-max); 2 IV bolus in HVs 
Fosnetupitant 
6431 (14) 
3478 (45) 
0.5 (0.25 – 0.5) 
0.5 (0.5 – 0.6) 
2938 (12) 
1401 (46) 
0.96 (57) 
0.75 (54) 
Netupitant 
Palonosetron2 
841 (21) 
590 (28) 
0.5 (0.5 – 0.4) 
0.6 (0.5 – 4) 
13854 (21) 
15588 (32) 
36.1 (19) 
144 (50) 
2.1 (61) 
0.8 (35) 
0.55 
0.6 (0.5 – 6) 
35 (33) 
36 (30) 
43 (32) 
58 (47) 
Fosnetupitant Cmax and AUC were lower in patients than in healthy subjects, although the systemic 
exposures to netupitant were comparable. 
In healthy subjects, there was a dose-proportional increase in the systemic exposure of fosnetupitant 
with the dose increase of fosnetupitant from 17.6 to 353 mg 
Palonosetron 
Following oral administration, palonosetron is well absorbed with its absolute bioavailability reaching 
97%. After single oral doses using buffered solution mean maximum palonosetron concentrations 
(Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-∞) were dose proportional over the dose 
range of 3.0 to 80 mcg/kg in healthy subjects. 
In 36 healthy male and female subjects given a single oral dose of 0.5 mg palonosetron, maximum 
plasma concentration (Cmax) was 0.81 ± 1.66 ng/mL (mean ± SD) and time to maximum concentration 
(Tmax) was 5.1 ± 1.7 hours. In female subjects (n=18), the mean AUC was 35% higher and the mean 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cmax was 26% higher than in male subjects (n=18). In 12 cancer patients given a single oral dose of 
palonosetron 0.5 mg one hour prior to chemotherapy, Cmax was 0.93 ± 0.34 ng/mL and Tmax was 5.1 ± 
5.9 hours.  The AUC was 30% higher in cancer patients than in healthy subjects. A high fat meal did 
not affect the Cmax and AUC of oral palonosetron. 
Distribution 
Netupitant 
After a single oral 300 mg dose administration in cancer patients, netupitant disposition was 
characterised by a two compartment model with an estimated median systemic clearance of 20.5 L/h 
and a large distribution volume in the central compartment (486 L). Human plasma protein binding of 
netupitant and its two major metabolites M1 and M3 is > 99% at concentrations ranging from 10 to 
1500 ng/mL. The third major metabolite, M2, is > 97% bound to plasma proteins. 
Fosnetupitant 
The mean ± SD volume of distribution (Vz) of fosnetupitant in healthy subjects and in patients was 
124 ± 76 L and 296 ±535 L, respectively. The human plasma protein binding of fosnetupitant was 
92% at 1 micromolar and 95% at 10 micromolar. The free fraction was in the range 5 to 8%. 
Palonosetron  
Palonosetron has a volume of distribution of approximately 8.3 ± 2.5 L/kg. Approximately 62% of 
palonosetron is bound to plasma proteins. 
Biotransformation 
Netupitant 
Three metabolites have been detected in human plasma at netupitant oral doses of 30 mg and higher 
(the desmethyl derivative, M1; the N-oxide derivative, M2; the OH-methyl derivative, M3). In vitro 
metabolism studies have suggested that CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 are 
involved in the metabolism of netupitant. After administration of a single oral dose of 300 mg 
netupitant, mean plasma netupitant/plasma radioactivity ratios ranged from 0.13 to 0.49 over 96 h 
post-dose. The ratios were time dependent with values decreasing gradually beyond 24 h post-dose, 
indicating that netupitant is being rapidly metabolised. Mean Cmax was approximately 11%, 47% and 
16% of the parent for M1, M2 and M3 respectively; M2 had the lowest AUC relative to the parent 
(14%) whereas M1 and M3 AUC were approximately 29% and 33% of the parent, respectively. M1, 
M2 and M3 metabolites were all shown to be pharmacologically active in an animal 
pharmacodynamic model, where M3 was most potent and M2 least active. 
Fosnetupitant 
Fosnetupitant is rapidly converted in vivo to netupitant by metabolic hydrolysis. In patients receiving 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion intravenously, netupitant exposure was 
17-fold fosnetupitant exposure, as determined by their AUC ratio. Netupitant metabolites M1, M2 and 
M3 were rapidly generated from the released netupitant. In patients, metabolite M1, M2 and M3 
exposures were 32%, 21% and 28% of netupitant exposure, as determined by their AUC ratio. The 
median tmax for M1, M2, and M3 were 12, 2 and 12 hours, respectively. 
Palonosetron  
Palonosetron is eliminated by multiple routes with approximately 50% metabolised to form two 
primary metabolites: N-oxide-palonosetron and 6-S-hydroxy-palonosetron. These metabolites each 
have less than 1% of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist activity of palonosetron. In vitro metabolism 
studies have suggested that CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are involved in the 
metabolism of palonosetron. However, clinical pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly 
different between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates. 
Elimination  
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Netupitant 
Following administration of a single dose of Akynzeo, netupitant is eliminated from the body in a 
multi-exponential fashion, with an apparent mean elimination half-life of 88 hours in cancer patients.  
Renal clearance is not a significant elimination route for netupitant-related entities. The mean fraction 
of an oral dose of netupitant excreted unchanged in urine is less than 1%; a total of 3.95% and 70.7% 
of the radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and faeces, respectively.  
Approximately half the radioactivity administered orally as [14C]-netupitant was recovered from urine 
and faeces within 120 h of dosing. Elimination via both routes was estimated to be complete by Day 
29-30 post-dose. 
Fosnetupitant 
After intravenous Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion administration, 
fosnetupitant plasma concentrations declined according to a biexponential profile. Thirty minutes after 
the end of the infusion, the mean plasma concentration of fosnetupitant was less than 1% of Cmax. 
Palonosetron  
Following administration of a single oral 0.75 mg dose of [14C]-palonosetron to six healthy subjects, 
85% to 93% of the total radioactivity was excreted in urine, and 5% to 8% was eliminated in faeces. 
The amount of unchanged palonosetron excreted in the urine represented approximately 40% of the 
administered dose.  In healthy subjects given palonosetron capsules 0.5 mg, the terminal elimination 
half-life (t½) of palonosetron was 37 ± 12 hours (mean ± SD), and in cancer patients, t½ was 48 ± 
19 hours. After a single dose of approximately 0.75 mg intravenous palonosetron, the total body 
clearance of palonosetron in healthy subjects was 160 ± 35 mL/h/kg (mean ± SD) and renal clearance 
was 66.5± 18.2 mL/h/kg. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Netupitant 
Maximum concentrations and total exposure of netupitant were increased in subjects with mild (n=8), 
moderate (n=8), and severe (n=2) hepatic impairment compared to matching healthy subjects, 
although there was pronounced individual variability in both hepatically-impaired and healthy 
subjects. Exposure to netupitant (Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞) compared to matching healthy subjects 
was 11%, 28% and 19% higher in mild and 70%, 88% and 143% higher in moderate hepatically-
impaired subjects, respectively. As such, no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to 
moderate hepatic impairment. Limited data exist in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child 
Pugh score ≥9). 
Palonosetron 
Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect total body clearance of palonosetron compared to the 
healthy subjects. While the terminal elimination half-life and mean systemic exposure of palonosetron 
is increased in the subjects with severe hepatic impairment, this does not warrant dose reduction. 
Renal impairment 
Netupitant 
No specific studies were performed to evaluate netupitant in patients with renal impairment. In the 
ADME trial, less than 5% of all netupitant-related material was excreted in urine and less than 1% of 
the netupitant dose was eliminated unchanged in the urine and therefore any accumulation of 
netupitant or metabolites after a single dose would be negligible. Furthermore, the population PK 
study showed no correlation between PK parameters of netupitant and markers of renal dysfunction. 
Palonosetron 
Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron PK parameters. Total 
systemic exposure to intravenous palonosetron increased by approximately 28% in patients with 
severe impairment relative to healthy subjects. In a population PK study, patients with a reduced 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
creatinine clearance (CLCR) also had a reduced palonosetron clearance, but this reduction would not 
result in a significant change in palonosetron exposure.  
Therefore, Akynzeo can be administered without dosage adjustment in patients with renal impairment.  
Neither netupitant nor palonosetron have been evaluated in patients with end-stage renal disease. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Palonosetron  
Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the 
maximum human exposure, indicating little relevance to clinical use. Non-clinical studies indicate that 
palonosetron, only at very high concentrations, may block ion channels involved in ventricular de- and 
re-polarisation and prolong action potential duration. Degeneration of seminiferous epithelium was 
associated with palonosetron following a one-month oral repeat dose toxicity study in rats. Animal 
studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal 
development, parturition or postnatal development. Only limited data from animal studies are 
available regarding the placental transfer (see section 4.6). Palonosetron is not mutagenic. High doses 
of palonosetron (each dose causing at least 15 times the human therapeutic exposure) applied daily for 
two years caused an increased rate of liver tumours, endocrine neoplasms (in thyroid, pituitary, 
pancreas, adrenal medulla) and skin tumours in rats but not in mice. The underlying mechanisms are 
not fully understood, but because of the high doses employed and since the medicinal product is 
intended for single application in humans, these findings are not considered relevant for clinical use. 
Netupitant and combination with palonosetron 
Effects in non-clinical studies based on safety pharmacology and single and repeated dose toxicity 
were observed only at exposures considered in excess of the maximum human exposure, indicating 
little relevance to clinical use. Phospholipidosis (foamy macrophages) has been observed with the 
administration of netupitant after repeated administration in rats and dogs. The effects were reversible 
or partially reversible after the recovery period. The significance of these findings in humans is 
unknown.  
Non-clinical studies indicate that netupitant and its metabolites and the combination with palonosetron 
only at very high concentrations may block ion channels involved in ventricular de- and re-
polarisation and prolong action potential duration. Reproductive studies in animals with netupitant do 
not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to fertility, parturition or postnatal 
development. An increased incidence of positional foetal abnormalities of the limbs and paws, fused 
sternebrae and agenesis of accessory lung lobe were observed following daily administration of 
netupitant in rabbits at 10 mg/kg/day and higher during the period of organogenesis. In a pilot dose 
range finding study in rabbits, cleft palate, microphtalmia and aphakia were observed in four foetuses 
from one litter in the 30 mg/kg/day group. The relevance of these findings in humans is unknown. No 
data from animal studies with netupitant are available regarding placental transfer and lactation. 
Netupitant is not mutagenic.  
Fosnetupitant 
Daily intravenous administration of fosnetupitant in rats (at 3 times the human AUC for netupitant at 
the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy) during the period of 
organogenesis produced delayed ossification of pubis.  No effects on embryo-fetal development were 
observed with daily administration of up to 13 mg/kg fosnetupitant in rats (2 times the human AUC 
for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy). Due to 
the limited systemic exposure to fosnetupitant in pregnant rats, it is not possible to provide an AUC-
based comparison of fosnetupitant exposure in rats and humans. An increase in resorptions was 
observed with daily intravenous administration of fosnetupitant at 6 mg/kg/day and higher in rabbits 
(9 times the human AUC for fosnetupitant and 0.4 times the human AUC for netupitant at the 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy) during the period of 
organogenesis. No effects were observed in rabbits at 3 mg/kg/day (5.4 times the human AUC for 
fosnetupitant and 0.4 times the human AUC for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given 
with each cycle of chemotherapy).  Daily intravenous administration of 39 mg/kg fosnetupitant in rats 
(3 times the AUC for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of 
chemotherapy) during organogenesis through lactation produced lower bodyweight in offspring at 
birth through maturation, and delayed physical development (pinna detachment, eye opening, and 
preputial separation). These effects were associated with maternal toxicity (reduced weight gain and 
food consumption). No effects occurred in offspring or dams at 13 mg/kg/day (2 times the human 
AUC for netupitant at the recommended single dose to be given with each cycle of chemotherapy). 
Fosnetupitant–palonosetron combination  
Intravenous and Intra-arterial administration in rabbits: for the clinical signs very slight to mild 
erythema were observed. No changes were noted at microscopic examination. 
Paravenous administration (a non-intended clinical route/misapplication) in rabbits: for the clinical 
signs very slight to mild erythema and very slight oedema were observed. At microscopic examination 
chronic inflammation (from mild to moderate), epidermal hyperplasia (from minimal to mild) of 
dermis were reported. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Mannitol 
Disodium edetate (E386)  
Sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (E507) (1M for pH adjustment) 
Water  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Akynzeo concentrate for solution for infusion is incompatible with any solutions containing divalent 
cations (e.g., Ca2+, Mg2+), including Hartman’s and lactated Ringer’s solutions.  
Akynzeo concentrate for solution for infusion should not be infused simultaneously or mixed with 
other intravenous substances, additives or medicinal products unless compatibility has been 
demonstrated. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several different 
medicinal products, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of Akynzeo with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
3 years. 
Store the diluted solution below 25°C. 
Chemical, physical and microbiological in-use stability after dilution has been demonstrated for 
24 hours at 25°C.  
6.4 
Special precautions for storage  
Store below 25°C.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container  
Single-dose 20 mL glass vials with 20 mm rubber stoppers and 20 mm aluminium cap seals.  
Pack of 1 vial. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Akynzeo must be diluted prior to administration. 
Preparation of Akynzeo  
Step 1 
Aseptically prepare an infusion vial or bag filled with 30 mL of 5% glucose injection, or 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Step 2 
Aseptically  withdraw  the  entire  volume  of  concentrate  from  the  AKYNZEO  vial  and 
transfer it into the infusion vial or bag containing 30 mL of 5% glucose injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to yield a total volume of 50 mL. 
Step 3 
Before  administration,  inspect  the  final  diluted  solution  for  particulate  matter  and 
discolouration. Discard the vial or bag if particulates and/or discolouration are observed. 
Akynzeo must not be diluted or mixed with solutions for which physical and chemical compatibility has 
not been established (see section 6.2). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 27 May 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 9 January 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown, 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules  
netupitant/palonosetron 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 300 milligrams of netupitant and 0.5 milligrams of palonosetron (as 
hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose and sorbitol (E420). See package leaflet for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsule 
1  hard capsule 
4x1 hard capsules  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown, Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15,  
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/001 1 hard capsule 
EU/1/15/1001/002 4x1 hard capsules  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
akynzeo  
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules  
netupitant/palonosetron 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Helsinn  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
fosnetupitant/palonosetron 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant (as chloride hydrochloride), which corresponds to 
197.5 mg of netupitant, and 0.25 mg of palonosetron (as hydrochloride).  
After reconstitution and dilution, 1 ml of solution contains 4.7 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 
3.95 mg of netupitant, and 0.005 mg palonosetron. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains mannitol, disodium edetate, sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid.  
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
Single use only. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After reconstitution and dilution: 24 hours below 25°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/003  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
62 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
fosnetupitant/palonosetron 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant (as chloride hydrochloride), which corresponds to 
197.5 mg of netupitant, and 0.25 mg of palonosetron (as hydrochloride).  
After reconstitution and dilution, 1 ml of solution contains 4.7 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 
3.95 mg of netupitant, and 0.005 mg palonosetron. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains mannitol, disodium edetate, sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
IV use after reconstitution and dilution 
Single use only. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE 
6. 
STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After reconstitution and dilution: 24 hours below 25°C 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/003     
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
fosnetupitant/palonosetron 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial of 20 ml contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant (as chloride hydrochloride), which corresponds to 
197.5 mg of netupitant, and 0.25 mg of palonosetron (as hydrochloride).  
Each ml of concentrate for solution contains 11.75 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 9.87 mg of 
netupitant, and 0.0125 mg palonosetron 
After dilution, 1 ml of solution contains 4.7 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 3.95 mg of 
netupitant, and 0.005 mg palonosetron. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains mannitol, disodium edetate, sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid and water.  
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Single use only. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After dilution: 24 hours below 25°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
67 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
fosnetupitant/palonosetron 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial of 20 ml contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant (as chloride hydrochloride), which corresponds to 
197.5 mg of netupitant, and 0.25 mg of palonosetron (as hydrochloride).  
Each ml of concentrate for solution contains 11.75 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 9.87 mg of 
netupitant, and 0.0125 mg palonosetron 
After dilution, 1 ml of solution contains 4.7 mg fosnetupitant, which corresponds to 3.95 mg of 
netupitant, and 0.005 mg palonosetron. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains mannitol, disodium edetate, sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid and water. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after dilution 
Single use only. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE 
6. 
STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After dilution: 24 hours below 25°C 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1001/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient 
Akynzeo 300 mg/0.5 mg hard capsules 
netupitant/palonosetron 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
What is in this leaflet 
1.   What Akynzeo is and what it is used for 
2.   What you need to know before you take Akynzeo 
3.   How to take Akynzeo 
4.  
5.   How to store Akynzeo 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information  
Possible side effects 
1. What Akynzeo is and what it is used for  
What Akynzeo is  
Akynzeo contains two medicines (‘active substances’) called: 
• 
• 
netupitant 
palonosetron. 
What Akynzeo is used for 
Akynzeo is used to help prevent adults with cancer feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting) 
while having cancer treatment called ‘chemotherapy’. 
How Akynzeo works 
Chemotherapy medicines can cause the body to release substances called serotonin and substance P. 
This stimulates the vomiting centre in the brain, making you feel or be sick.  The medicines in 
Akynzeo attach to the receptors in the nervous system through which serotonin and substance P work: 
netupitant (an NK1 receptor antagonist) blocks the receptors for substance P, and palonosetron (a 5-
HT3 receptor antagonist) blocks certain receptors for serotonin. By blocking the actions of substance P 
and serotonin in this way, the medicines help prevent the stimulation of the vomiting centre and the 
resulting sickness. 
2. What you need to know before you take Akynzeo 
Do not take Akynzeo if: 
• 
you are allergic to netupitant or palonosetron, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking 
this medicine. 
you are pregnant. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Akynzeo if: 
• 
• 
• 
you have liver problems 
you have a blockage in your gut, or you have had constipation in the past 
you or one of your close relatives has ever had a heart problem called ‘QT interval 
prolongation’ 
you have any other heart problems 
you have been told you have an imbalance of minerals in your blood such as potassium and 
magnesium that has not been corrected. 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking Akynzeo. 
Children and adolescents 
Akynzeo should not be taken by children and adolescents under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Akynzeo 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
• 
medicines for depression or anxiety called SSRIs (selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors) - 
such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, citalopram or escitalopram  
medicines for depression or anxiety called SNRIs (serotonin noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitors) 
- such as venlafaxine or duloxetine. 
• 
Also tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines as your 
doctor may need to change the dose of these other medicines: 
• 
medicines that might cause abnormal heartbeat such as amiodarone, nicardipine, quinidine, 
moxifloxacin, haloperidol, chlorpromazine, quetiapine, thioridazine or domperidone 
medicines with a narrow therapeutic range that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, such as 
cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, alfentanil, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, 
or quinidine 
some chemotherapy medicines - such as docetaxel or etoposide  
erythromycin - to treat bacterial infections 
midazolam - a sedative used to treat anxiety 
dexamethasone - can be used to treat feeling and being sick 
ketoconazole - to treat Cushing's syndrome 
rifampicin - to treat tuberculosis (TB) and other infections.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking Akynzeo. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Do not take Akynzeo if you are pregnant or if you are a woman of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Do not breast-feed if you are taking Akynzeo. This is because it is not known whether the medicine 
passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or tired after taking Akynzeo. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or 
machines. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Akynzeo contains sucrose, sorbitol (E420), sodium and may contain traces of soya  
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains 7 mg of sorbitol (E420) in each hard capsule.  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium per (23 mg) per hard capsule, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
It may contain traces of lecithin - which comes from soya. If you are allergic to peanut or soya, do not 
use this medicinal product. 
3. How to take Akynzeo 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or 
nurse if you are not sure.  
How much to take 
• 
The recommended dose is one capsule (each capsule contains 300 mg of netupitant and 0.5 mg 
of palonosetron). 
Take the capsule about 1 hour before you start your chemotherapy cycle.  
You can take Akynzeo with or without food. 
• 
• 
Akynzeo is taken before the chemotherapy to prevent sickness and feelings of sickness from 
developing. Do not take Akynzeo in the days after you have chemotherapy - unless you are about to 
have another chemotherapy cycle. 
If you take more Akynzeo than you should 
The usual dose is 1 capsule. If you think you may have taken more than you should, tell your doctor 
straight away. The symptoms of overdose may include headache, dizziness, constipation, anxiety, 
palpitations, euphoric mood and pain in the legs.  
If you forget to take Akynzeo 
If you think you have forgotten to take your dose, tell your doctor straight away.   
If you stop taking Akynzeo  
Akynzeo is taken to help prevent you feeling and being sick when you are having chemotherapy. If 
you do not want to take Akynzeo, discuss this with your doctor. If you decide not to take Akynzeo (or 
another similar medicine), your chemotherapy is likely to make you feel sick and be sick. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects  
Stop taking Akynzeo and tell your doctor straight away if you notice the following serious side effect - 
you may need urgent medical treatment: 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
• 
severe allergic reaction signs include hives, skin rash, itching, difficulty breathing or swallowing, 
swollen mouth, face, lips, tongue or throat and sometimes a drop in blood pressure. 
Other side effects 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common: (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
constipation 
feeling tired. 
Uncommon: (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hair loss 
lack of energy (feeling weak) 
decreased appetite 
high blood pressure 
raised, itchy rash on the skin (hives) 
problems with the muscles in your heart (cardiomyopathy) 
spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling dizzy or trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
stomach problems including stomach discomfort, feeling bloated, nausea, pain, indigestion, 
hiccups, wind or diarrhoea 
high levels of certain enzymes, including blood alkaline phosphatase and liver transaminases 
(shown in blood tests) 
high levels of creatinine - which measures kidney function (shown in blood tests) 
ECG (electrocardiogram) problems (called ‘QT and PR interval prolongation’, ‘conduction 
disorder’, ‘tachycardia’ and ‘atrioventricular block first degree’) 
low levels of ‘neutrophils’ - a kind of white blood cell which fight infections (shown in blood 
tests) 
high level of white blood cells (shown in blood tests). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare: (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
back pain, joint pain 
feeling hot, reddening of the face or other areas of the skin (feeling flushed) 
itchy skin rash 
feeling drowsy 
sleep problems 
ring in the ear 
vomiting 
low blood pressure 
chest pain (not related to the heart) 
numbness, blurred vision 
sudden nervous breakdown, change in mood 
infection and inflammation in the bladder (cystitis) 
haemorrhoids 
conjunctivitis (a type of eye inflammation) 
low level of potassium (shown in blood tests) 
modifications (or disturbances) in heart rhythm  
heart valve disorder (mitral valve incompetence) 
coating of the tongue, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth, belching, abnormal taste after medicine 
intake 
decreased blood flow to the heart muscle (myocardial ischemia) 
high levels of creatine phosphokinase/ creatine phosphokinase MB - which indicates sudden 
decreased blood flow to the heart muscle (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of troponin - which indicates heart muscle dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of the pigment bilirubin - which indicates liver dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of myoglobin – which indicates muscle injury (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of blood urea – which indicates kidney dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
74 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
high level of ‘lymphocytes’– type of white blood cell which help the body fight disease (shown 
in blood tests) 
low level of white blood cells (shown in blood tests) 
ECG (electrocardiogram) problems (called ‘ST segment depression’, ‘ST-T segment abnormal’ 
‘bundle branch block right/left’, and ‘atrioventricular block second degree’) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.  
5. How to store Akynzeo 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after 
‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. Contents of the pack and other information 
What Akynzeo contains 
• 
• 
The active substances are palonosetron and netupitant. Each hard capsule contains three tablets 
(300 mg of netupitant), and one soft capsule (palonosetron hydrochloride equivalent to 
0.5 milligrams of palonosetron). 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose (E460), sucrose lauric acid esters, povidone 
K-30, croscarmellose sodium, colloidal hydrated silica, sodium stearyl fumarate, magnesium 
stearate, glycerol monocaprylocaproate (type I), glycerol, polyglyceryl oleate, purified water, 
butylhydroxyanisole (E320), gelatin, sorbitol (E420), 1,4 sorbitan, titanium dioxide (E171), 
shellac glaze (partially esterified), yellow, red and black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol 
(E1520).  
This medicine contains sucrose, sorbitol (E420), sodium and may contain soya - see section 2 for more 
information. 
What Akynzeo looks like and contents of the pack 
The hard capsules are opaque with a white body and a caramel cap with ‘HE1’ printed on the body. 
Pack size containing 1 capsule in an aluminium blister or 4 x 1 hard capsules in aluminium perforated 
unit dose blisters. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer: 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tél/Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
България 
Angelini Pharma Bulgaria EOOD 
Teл.: +359 2 975 13 95 
Lietuva 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 689 36600 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tél/Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Česká republika 
Angelini Pharma Česká republika s.r.o. 
Tel: (+420) 546 123 111 
Magyarország 
Angelini Pharma Magyarország Kft 
Tel.: + 36 1 336 1614 
Danmark 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S 
Tlf: + 45 32 96 68 69 
Deutschland 
Esteve Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 49 30 338427-0 
Eesti 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 698 36600 
Ελλάδα 
Galenica A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 52 81 700 
España 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: +34(0)9 373 70 164 
Malta 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  
Tel.: + 353 1 822 5404 
Nederland 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Norge 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS 
Tlf: +47 66 82 34 00 
Österreich 
Angelini Pharma Österreich GmbH 
Tel: +43-5-9-606-0 
Polska 
Angelini Pharma Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 70 28 200 
France 
Immedica Pharma France SARL 
Tél: + 33(0)148 014 711 
Portugal 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Hrvatska 
Bausch Health Poland sp. z.o.o. podružnica Zagreb  
Tel:  +385 1 670 0750 
România 
Angelini Pharmaceuticals Romania Srl 
Tel: +40 21 331 67 67 
Ireland 
Chugai Pharma France 
Tel: +33 1 79 36 36 18 
Ísland 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S 
Tlf: + 45 32 96 68 69 
Italia 
Italfarmaco 
Tel: + 39 02 64431 
Κύπρος 
Galenica A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 52 81 700 
Slovenija 
PharmaSwiss 
Tel: +386 1 2364 700 
Slovenská republika 
Angelini Pharma Slovenská republika s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5920 7320 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ab 
Puh./Tel: +358 201 558 840 
Sverige 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Tel: +46 8 697 20 00 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 698 36600 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chugai Pharma France 
Tel: +33 1 79 36 36 18 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
fosnetupitant/palonosetron 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
What is in this leaflet 
1.   What Akynzeo is and what it is used for 
2.   What you need to know before you are given Akynzeo 
3.   How Akynzeo is given 
4.  
5.   How Akynzeo is stored 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information  
Possible side effects 
1. What Akynzeo is and what it is used for  
What Akynzeo is  
Akynzeo contains two medicines (‘active substances’) called: 
• 
• 
fosnetupitant 
palonosetron. 
What Akynzeo is used for 
Akynzeo is used to help prevent adults with cancer feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting) 
while having cancer treatment called ‘chemotherapy’. 
How Akynzeo works 
Chemotherapy medicines can cause the body to release substances called serotonin and substance P. 
This stimulates the vomiting centre in the brain, making you feel or be sick.  The medicines in 
Akynzeo attach to the receptors in the nervous system through which serotonin and substance P work: 
fosnetupitant which is converted to netupitant (an NK1 receptor antagonist) in your body blocks the 
receptors for substance P, and palonosetron (a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist) blocks certain receptors for 
serotonin. By blocking the actions of substance P and serotonin in this way, the medicines help 
prevent the stimulation of the vomiting centre and the resulting sickness. 
2. What you need to know before you are given Akynzeo 
You should not be given Akynzeo if: 
• 
you are allergic to fosnetupitant, netupitant or palonosetron, or any of the other ingredients of 
this medicine (listed in section 6). If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
before you are given this medicine. 
you are pregnant. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before being given Akynzeo if: 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
you have liver problems 
you have a blockage in your gut or you have had constipation in the past 
you or one of your close relatives has ever had a heart problem called ‘QT interval 
prolongation’ 
you have any other heart problems 
you have been told you have an imbalance of minerals in your blood such as potassium and 
magnesium that has not been corrected. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
being given Akynzeo. 
Children and adolescents 
Akynzeo should not be given to children and adolescents under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Akynzeo 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
• 
medicines for depression or anxiety called SSRIs (selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors) - 
such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, citalopram or escitalopram  
medicines for depression or anxiety called SNRIs (serotonin noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitors) 
- such as venlafaxine or duloxetine. 
• 
Also tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines as your 
doctor may need to change the dose of these other medicines: 
• 
medicines that might cause abnormal heartbeat such as amiodarone, nicardipine, quinidine, 
moxifloxacin, haloperidol, chlorpromazine, quetiapine, thioridazine or domperidone 
medicines with a narrow therapeutic range that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, such as 
cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, alfentanil, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, 
or quinidine 
some chemotherapy medicines - such as docetaxel or etoposide  
erythromycin - to treat bacterial infections 
midazolam - a sedative used to treat anxiety 
dexamethasone - can be used to treat feeling and being sick 
ketoconazole - to treat Cushing's syndrome 
rifampicin - to treat tuberculosis (TB) and other infections.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
being given Akynzeo. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before being given this medicine. 
You should not be given Akynzeo if you are pregnant or if you are a woman of childbearing potential 
not using contraception. 
Do not breast-feed if you are being given Akynzeo. This is because it is not known whether the 
medicine passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or tired after being given Akynzeo. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools 
or machines. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Akynzeo contains sodium 
This medicine contains 24.8 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 1.24% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
If reconstituted and diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the final 
solution contains approximately 202 mg of sodium per dose. This is equivalent to 10.1% of the 
recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. How Akynzeo is given 
The recommended dose of Akynzeo is one vial (each vial contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant and 
0.25 mg of palonosetron) on Day 1 of your chemotherapy. 
•  The powder is reconstituted and diluted before use. 
•  Akynzeo is given to you by a doctor or nurse 
•  Akynzeo is given as a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion) about 30 minutes before you start 
your chemotherapy treatment. 
Your doctor will ask you to take other medicines including a corticosteroid (such as dexamethasone) 
to prevent you feeling and being sick. Check with your doctor or nurse if you are not sure.  
If you stop being given Akynzeo  
Akynzeo is given to help prevent you feeling and being sick when you are having chemotherapy. If 
you do not want to be given Akynzeo, discuss this with your doctor. If you decide not to be given 
Akynzeo (or another similar medicine), your chemotherapy is likely to make you feel and be sick. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects  
Stop being given Akynzeo and tell your doctor straight away if you notice the following serious side 
effect - you may need urgent medical treatment: 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people) 
• 
severe allergic reaction – signs include hives, skin rash, itching, difficulty breathing or 
swallowing, swollen mouth, face, lips, tongue or throat and sometimes a drop in blood pressure. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
constipation 
feeling tired. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hair loss 
lack of energy (feeling weak) 
decreased appetite 
high blood pressure 
raised, itchy rash on the skin (hives) 
problems with the muscles in your heart (cardiomyopathy) 
spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling dizzy or trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
stomach problems including stomach discomfort, feeling bloated, nausea, pain, indigestion, 
hiccups, wind or diarrhoea 
high levels of certain enzymes, including blood alkaline phosphatase and liver transaminases 
(shown in blood tests) 
high levels of creatinine - which measures kidney function (shown in blood tests) 
ECG (electrocardiogram) problems (called ‘QT and PR interval prolongation’, ‘conduction 
disorder’, ‘tachycardia’ and ‘atrioventricular block first degree’) 
low levels of ‘neutrophils’ - a kind of white blood cell which fight infections (shown in blood 
tests) 
high level of white blood cells (shown in blood tests). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
back pain, joint pain 
feeling hot, reddening of the face or other areas of the skin (feeling flushed) 
itchy skin rash 
feeling drowsy 
sleep problems 
ring in the ear 
vomiting 
low blood pressure 
chest pain (not related to the heart) 
numbness, blurred vision 
sudden nervous breakdown, change in mood 
infection and inflammation in the bladder (cystitis) 
haemorrhoids 
conjunctivitis (a type of eye inflammation) 
low level of potassium (shown in blood tests) 
modifications (or disturbances) in heart rhythm  
heart valve disorder (mitral valve incompetence) 
coating of the tongue, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth, belching, abnormal taste after medicine 
intake 
decreased blood flow to the heart muscle (myocardial ischemia) 
high levels of creatine phosphokinase//creatine phosphokinase MB - which indicates sudden 
decreased blood flow to the heart muscle (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of troponin - which indicates heart muscle dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of the pigment bilirubin - which indicates liver dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of myoglobin – which indicates muscle injury (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of blood urea – which indicates kidney dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high level of ‘lymphocytes’– type of white blood cell which help the body fight disease (shown 
in blood tests) 
low level of white blood cells (shown in blood tests) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  ECG (electrocardiogram) problems (called ‘ST segment depression’, ‘ST-T segment 
abnormal’ ‘bundle branch block right/left’, and ‘atrioventricular block second degree’) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.  
5. How to store Akynzeo 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
The total time from reconstitution to the start of the infusion should not exceed 24 hours. Store 
the reconstituted solution and the final diluted solution below 25°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. Contents of the pack and other information 
What Akynzeo contains 
• 
The active substances are fosnetupitant and palonosetron. Each vial contains 235 mg of 
fosnetupitant and 0.25 milligrams of palonosetron. 
The other ingredients are mannitol, disodium edetate (E386), sodium hydroxide (E524), 
hydrochloric acid diluted (E507) (for pH adjustment). 
This medicine contains sodium, see section 2 for more information. 
• 
What Akynzeo looks like and contents of the pack 
Akynzeo powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is a sterile, white to off-white lyophilised 
powder and is supplied in a pack of one Type I glass vial with rubber stopper and aluminium cap. 
Each vial contains one dose.  
Pack of 1 vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer: 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tél/Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
България 
Angelini Pharma Bulgaria EOOD 
Teл.: +359 2 975 13 95 
Lietuva 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: +  370 698 36600 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tél/Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Česká republika 
Angelini Pharma Česká republika s.r.o. 
Tel: (+420) 546 123 111 
Magyarország 
Angelini Pharma Magyarország Kft 
Tel.: + 36 1 336 1614 
Danmark 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S 
Tlf: + 45 32 96 68 69 
Deutschland 
Esteve Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 49 30 338427-0 
Malta 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  
Tel.: + 353 1 822 5404 
Nederland 
Immedica Pharma AB  
Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 698 36600 
Ελλάδα 
Galenica A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 52 81 700 
España 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: +34(0)9 373 70 164  
Norge 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS 
Tlf: +47 66 82 34 00 
Österreich 
Angelini Pharma Österreich GmbH 
Tel: +43-5-9-606-0 
Polska 
Angelini Pharma Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 70 28 200 
France 
Immedica Pharma France SARL  
Tél: + 33(0)148 014 711 
Portugal 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Hrvatska 
Bausch Health Poland sp. z.o.o. podružnica Zagreb  
Tel:  +385 1 670 0750 
România 
Angelini Pharmaceuticals Romania Srl 
Tel: +40 21 331 67 67 
Ireland 
Chugai Pharma France 
Tel: +33 1 79 36 36 18 
Ísland 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S 
Tlf: + 45 32 96 68 69 
Italia 
Italfarmaco 
Tel: + 39 02 64431 
Κύπρος 
Galenica A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 52 81 700 
Latvija 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 698 36600 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Slovenija 
PharmaSwiss 
Tel: +386 1 2364 700 
Slovenská republika 
Angelini Pharma Slovenská republika s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5920 7320 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ab 
Puh./Tel: +358 201 558 840 
Sverige 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Tel: +46 8 697 20 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chugai Pharma France 
Tel: +33 1 79 36 36 18 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions of how to reconstitute and dilute AKYNZEO 235 mg/0.25 mg 
 Preparation of Akynzeo  
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1 
Aseptically inject 20 mL 5% glucose injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution 
for injection, into the vial. Ensure the solvent is added to the vial along the vial wall and 
not jetted in order to prevent foaming. Swirl the vial gently for 3 minutes. The powder 
should be dissolved before the solution is diluted in the infusion bag. 
Step 2 
Aseptically prepare an infusion vial or bag filled with 30 mL of 5% glucose injection, or 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Step 3 
Dilution should occur immediately after reconstitution (according to Step 1). Aseptically 
withdraw the entire volume of reconstituted solution from the AKYNZEO vial and transfer 
it into the infusion vial or bag containing 30 mL of 5% glucose injection or sodium chloride 
9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to yield a total volume of 50 mL. 
Step 4 
Gently invert the vial or bag until complete dissolution. 
Step 5 
Before  administration,  inspect  the  final  diluted  solution  for  particulate  matter  and 
discolouration. Discard the vial or bag if particulates and/or discolouration are observed. 
The reconstituted and diluted final solution is stable for 24 hours at 25°C. 
Parenteral  medicines  should  be  inspected  visually  for  particulate  matter  and  discolouration  before 
administration whenever solution and container permit. 
The appearance of the reconstituted solution is the same as the appearance of the diluent. 
Discard any remaining solution and waste material. Any unused medicinal product or waste material 
should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
The  medicinal  product  must  not  be  reconstituted  or  mixed  with  solutions  for  which  physical  and 
chemical  compatibility  has  not  been  established  (see  Summary  of  Product  Characteristic  (SmPC), 
section 6.2). 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient 
Akynzeo 235 mg/0.25 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
fosnetupitant/palonosetron 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
What is in this leaflet 
1.   What Akynzeo is and what it is used for 
2.   What you need to know before you are given Akynzeo 
3.   How Akynzeo is given 
4.  
5.   How Akynzeo is stored 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information  
Possible side effects 
1. What Akynzeo is and what it is used for  
What Akynzeo is  
Akynzeo contains two medicines (‘active substances’) called: 
• 
• 
fosnetupitant 
palonosetron. 
What Akynzeo is used for 
Akynzeo is used to help prevent adults with cancer feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting) 
while having cancer treatment called ‘chemotherapy’. 
How Akynzeo works 
Chemotherapy medicines can cause the body to release substances called serotonin and substance P. 
This stimulates the vomiting centre in the brain, making you feel or be sick.  The medicines in 
Akynzeo attach to the receptors in the nervous system through which serotonin and substance P work: 
fosnetupitant which is converted to netupitant (an NK1 receptor antagonist) in your body blocks the 
receptors for substance P, and palonosetron (a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist) blocks certain receptors for 
serotonin. By blocking the actions of substance P and serotonin in this way, the medicines help 
prevent the stimulation of the vomiting centre and the resulting sickness. 
2. What you need to know before you are given Akynzeo 
You should not be given Akynzeo if: 
• 
you are allergic to fosnetupitant, netupitant or palonosetron, or any of the other ingredients of 
this medicine (listed in section 6). If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
before you are given this medicine. 
you are pregnant. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before being given Akynzeo if: 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
you have liver problems 
you have a blockage in your gut or you have had constipation in the past 
you or one of your close relatives has ever had a heart problem called ‘QT interval 
prolongation’ 
you have any other heart problems 
you have been told you have an imbalance of minerals in your blood such as potassium and 
magnesium that has not been corrected. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
being given Akynzeo. 
Children and adolescents 
Akynzeo should not be given to children and adolescents under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Akynzeo 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
• 
medicines for depression or anxiety called SSRIs (selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors) - 
such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, citalopram or escitalopram  
medicines for depression or anxiety called SNRIs (serotonin noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitors) 
- such as venlafaxine or duloxetine. 
• 
Also tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines as your 
doctor may need to change the dose of these other medicines: 
• 
medicines that might cause abnormal heartbeat such as amiodarone, nicardipine, quinidine, 
moxifloxacin, haloperidol, chlorpromazine, quetiapine, thioridazine or domperidone 
medicines with a narrow therapeutic range that are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, such as 
cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, alfentanil, diergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, 
or quinidine 
some chemotherapy medicines - such as docetaxel or etoposide  
erythromycin - to treat bacterial infections 
midazolam - a sedative used to treat anxiety 
dexamethasone - can be used to treat feeling and being sick 
ketoconazole - to treat Cushing's syndrome 
rifampicin - to treat tuberculosis (TB) and other infections.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
being given Akynzeo. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before being given this medicine. 
You should not be given Akynzeo if you are pregnant or if you are a woman of childbearing potential 
not using contraception. 
Do not breast-feed if you are being given Akynzeo. This is because it is not known whether the 
medicine passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or tired after being given Akynzeo. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools 
or machines. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Akynzeo contains sodium 
This medicine contains 24.4 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 1.22% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
If diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the final solution contains 
approximately 202 mg of sodium per dose. This is equivalent to 10.1% of the recommended maximum 
daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. How Akynzeo is given 
The recommended dose of Akynzeo is one vial (each vial contains 235 mg of fosnetupitant and 
0.25 mg of palonosetron) on Day 1 of your chemotherapy. 
•  The concentrate is diluted before use. 
•  Akynzeo is given to you by a doctor or nurse 
•  Akynzeo is given as a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion) about 30 minutes before you start 
your chemotherapy treatment. 
Your doctor will ask you to take other medicines including a corticosteroid (such as dexamethasone) 
to prevent you feeling and being sick. Check with your doctor or nurse if you are not sure.  
If you stop being given Akynzeo  
Akynzeo is given to help prevent you feeling and being sick when you are having chemotherapy. If 
you do not want to be given Akynzeo, discuss this with your doctor. If you decide not to be given 
Akynzeo (or another similar medicine), your chemotherapy is likely to make you feel and be sick. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects  
Stop being given Akynzeo and tell your doctor straight away if you notice the following serious side 
effect - you may need urgent medical treatment: 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people) 
• 
severe allergic reaction – signs include hives, skin rash, itching, difficulty breathing or 
swallowing, swollen mouth, face, lips, tongue or throat and sometimes a drop in blood pressure. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
constipation 
feeling tired. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hair loss 
lack of energy (feeling weak) 
decreased appetite 
high blood pressure 
raised, itchy rash on the skin (hives) 
problems with the muscles in your heart (cardiomyopathy) 
spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling dizzy or trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
stomach problems including stomach discomfort, feeling bloated, nausea, pain, indigestion, 
hiccups, wind or diarrhoea 
high levels of certain enzymes, including blood alkaline phosphatase and liver transaminases 
(shown in blood tests) 
high levels of creatinine - which measures kidney function (shown in blood tests) 
ECG (electrocardiogram) problems (called ‘QT and PR interval prolongation’, ‘conduction 
disorder’, ‘tachycardia’ and ‘atrioventricular block first degree’) 
low levels of ‘neutrophils’ - a kind of white blood cell which fight infections (shown in blood 
tests) 
high level of white blood cells (shown in blood tests). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
back pain, joint pain 
feeling hot, reddening of the face or other areas of the skin (feeling flushed) 
itchy skin rash 
feeling drowsy 
sleep problems 
ring in the ear 
vomiting 
low blood pressure 
chest pain (not related to the heart) 
numbness, blurred vision 
sudden nervous breakdown, change in mood 
infection and inflammation in the bladder (cystitis) 
haemorrhoids 
conjunctivitis (a type of eye inflammation) 
low level of potassium (shown in blood tests) 
modifications (or disturbances) in heart rhythm  
heart valve disorder (mitral valve incompetence) 
coating of the tongue, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth, belching, abnormal taste after medicine 
intake 
decreased blood flow to the heart muscle (myocardial ischemia) 
high levels of creatine phosphokinase//creatine phosphokinase MB - which indicates sudden 
decreased blood flow to the heart muscle (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of troponin - which indicates heart muscle dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of the pigment bilirubin - which indicates liver dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of myoglobin – which indicates muscle injury (shown in blood tests) 
high levels of blood urea – which indicates kidney dysfunction (shown in blood tests) 
high level of ‘lymphocytes’– type of white blood cell which help the body fight disease (shown 
in blood tests) 
low level of white blood cells (shown in blood tests) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  ECG (electrocardiogram) problems (called ‘ST segment depression’, ‘ST-T segment 
abnormal’ ‘bundle branch block right/left’, and ‘atrioventricular block second degree’) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.  
5. How to store Akynzeo 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
The total time from dilution to the start of the infusion should not exceed 24 hours. Store the 
diluted solution below 25°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. Contents of the pack and other information 
What Akynzeo contains 
• 
The active substances are fosnetupitant and palonosetron. Each vial contains 235 mg of 
fosnetupitant and 0.25 milligrams of palonosetron. 
The other ingredients are mannitol, disodium edetate (E386), sodium hydroxide (E524), 
hydrochloric acid diluted (E507) (for pH adjustment) and water. 
• 
This medicine contains sodium, see section 2 for more information. 
What Akynzeo looks like and contents of the pack 
Akynzeo concentrate for solution for infusion is a sterile, clear, colourless to slightly yellow solution 
and is supplied in a pack of one single-dose 20 mL Type I glass vial with rubber stopper and 
aluminium cap. Each vial contains one dose.  
Pack of 1 vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer: 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Damastown 
Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tél/Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
България 
Angelini Pharma Bulgaria EOOD 
Teл.: +359 2 975 13 95 
Lietuva 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 698 36600 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tél/Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Česká republika 
Angelini Pharma Česká republika s.r.o. 
Tel: (+420) 546 123 111 
Magyarország 
Angelini Pharma Magyarország Kft 
Tel.: + 36 1 336 1614 
Danmark 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S 
Tlf: + 45 32 96 68 69 
Malta 
Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  
Tel.: + 353 1 822 5404 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Esteve Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 49 30 338427-0 
Nederland 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Eesti 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: + 370 698 36600 
Ελλάδα 
Galenica A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 52 81 700 
España 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: +34(0)9 373 70 164 
Norge 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS 
Tlf: +47 66 82 34 00 
Österreich 
Angelini Pharma Österreich GmbH 
Tel: +43-5-9-606-0 
Polska 
Angelini Pharma Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 70 28 200 
France 
Immedica Pharma France SARL 
Tél: + 33(0)148 014 711 
Portugal 
Immedica Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46(0)8 533 39 500 
Hrvatska 
Bausch Health Poland sp. z.o.o. podružnica Zagreb  
Tel:  +385 1 670 0750 
România 
Angelini Pharmaceuticals Romania Srl 
Tel: +40 21 331 67 67 
Ireland 
Chugai Pharma France 
Tel: +33 1 79 36 36 18 
Ísland 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S 
Tlf: + 45 32 96 68 69 
Italia 
Italfarmaco 
Tel: + 39 02 64431 
Κύπρος 
Galenica A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 52 81 700 
Latvija 
Farma Mondo 
Tel: +370 698 36600 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Slovenija 
PharmaSwiss 
Tel: +386 1 2364 700 
Slovenská republika 
Angelini Pharma Slovenská republika s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5920 7320 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ab 
Puh./Tel: +358 201 558 840 
Sverige 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Tel: +46 8 697 20 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chugai Pharma France 
Tel: +33 1 79 36 36 18 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions of how to dilute AKYNZEO 235 mg/0.25 mg 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Preparation of Akynzeo  
Step 1 
Aseptically prepare an infusion vial or bag filled with 30 mL of 5% glucose injection, or 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Step 2 
Aseptically  withdraw  the  entire  volume  of  concentrate  from  the  AKYNZEO  vial  and 
transfer it into the infusion vial or bag containing 30 mL of 5% glucose injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to yield a total volume of 50 mL. 
Step 3 
Before  administration,  inspect  the  final  diluted  solution  for  particulate  matter  and 
discolouration. Discard the vial or bag if particulates and/or discolouration are observed. 
The diluted final solution is stable for 24 hours at 25°C. 
Parenteral  medicines  should  be  inspected  visually  for  particulate  matter  and  discoloration  before 
administration whenever solution and container permit. 
The appearance of the diluted solution is the same as the appearance of the diluent. 
Discard any remaining solution and waste material. Any unused medicinal product or waste material 
should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
The medicinal product must not be diluted or mixed with solutions for which physical and chemical 
compatibility has not been established (see Summary of Product Characteristic (SmPC), section 6.2). 
91 
 
 
 
