London, 14 July 2004 
Product name: ALDARA 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/179/II/20 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.(44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eudra.org     http://www.eudra.org/emea.html 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Introduction 
The  proposed  amendments  relate  to  an  update  of  the  SPC  and  consequential  changes  to  the  PL  of 
Aldara 5 % cream, to extend the indication to include patients with superficial basal cell carcinoma. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH),  3M  Pharmaceuticals  (3M)  received  the  Centralised 
Marketing  Authorisation  on  18 September  1998  for  Aldara  (imiquimod)  5%  Cream.    Imiquimod  is 
indicated for the topical treatment of external genital and perianal warts (condylomata acuminata) in 
adult patients. The MAH received CPMP Scientific  Advice in September 2000 (CPMP/1882/00) for 
the intended variation. 
The  early  development  program  studied  both  superficial  basal  cell  carcinoma  (sBCC)  and  nodular 
basal cell carcinoma (nBCC). The MAH has chosen to pursue the indication for sBCC.  
Imiquimod  belongs  to  the  class  of  imidazoquinolinamines.  Imiquimod  is  an  immune  response 
modifier  that  triggers  toll-like  receptors  (TLR)  on  antigen-presenting  cells  such  as  monocytes/ 
macrophages and dendritic cells. Activation of TLR-7 results in increased transcription of cytokines, 
important  in  the  innate  immune  responses,  and  by  stimulating  trafficking  of  dendritic  cells  to  the 
regional lymph nodes, enhances the adaptive cell-mediated immune response in a  manner consistent 
with  a  T-helper  type  1  cell-mediated  immunity.  Occurrence  of  tumour  cells  is  accompanied  by 
changes consistent with a triggering of cell-mediated immunity. 
1.1 
Proposed new indication 
Imiquimod  cream  is  indicated  for  the  topical  treatment  of  external  genital  and  perianal  warts 
(condylomata acuminata) and superficial basal cell carcinoma in adult patients.  
1.2 
Proposed posology and method of administration 
The application frequency for imiquimod cream is different for each indication. 
Posology for sBCC 
Apply imiquimod cream for 6 weeks, 5 times per week (example: Monday to Friday) prior to normal 
sleeping hours, and leave on the skin for approximately 8 hours. 
Method of administration for sBCC 
Before applying imiquimod cream, patients should wash the treatment area with mild soap and water 
and  dry  thoroughly.    Sufficient  cream  should  be  applied  to  cover  the  treatment  area,  including  one 
centimetre of skin surrounding the tumour.  The cream should be rubbed into the treatment area until 
the cream vanishes.  The cream should be applied prior to normal sleeping hours and remain on the 
skin for approximately 8 hours.  During this period, showering and bathing should be avoided.  After 
this period it is recommended that imiquimod cream is removed with mild soap and water. 
Sachets  should  not  be  re-used  once  opened.    Hands  should  be  washed  carefully  before  and  after 
application of cream. 
1.3 
Problem statement 
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is a very common skin cancer, almost exclusively of white populations.  
Basal cell carcinoma is an unusual cancer in that it grows slowly and is locally invasive, but does not 
often metastasise. It is rarely fatal, but if not treated can result in extensive local tissue damage, and 
can track along embryonic fusion planes or nerve tracts producing morbidity and deformity. Tumours 
are often multiple, even when the patient is first seen.  Along with other non-melanoma skin cancer 
(NMSCs),  new  BCCs  are  highly  likely  to  appear  over  time,  in  particular  within  the  first  year  after 
treatment  of  the  primary  lesion  and  treatment  of  patients  developing  large  numbers  of  tumours 
presents a management problem. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
2/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biopsy  with  histopathology  confirms  the  diagnosis  of  clinically  suspicious  lesions.  A  number  of 
histological subtypes have been described which differ in clinical presentation and risk of recurrence 
after initial treatment.   
The  majority  of  BCCs  are  low  risk,  the  most  common  pattern  being  nodular,  which  accounts  for 
45%-60%  of  cases.  Clinically  these  appear  as  translucent,  light-coloured,  pearly  papules  with 
telangiectasia,  especially  on  the  face,  ears  and  neck.  The  superficial  subtype  is  also  low  risk.    It 
accounts for approximately 15%-35% of BCCs, is frequently multiple, and presents clinically as red, 
scaly  macules  or  plaques,  primarily  on  the  trunk  or  the  extremities.  High  risk  BCCs  include 
infiltrative,  morpheaform  (sclerosing),  and  micronodular  subtypes,  which  tend  to  infiltrate  more 
diffusely  such  that  subsequent  recurrence  is  more  common.  The  nodular  subtype,  especially,  may 
become  pigmented.    It  can  resemble  a  seborrhoeic  keratosis,  and  occasionally  malignant  melanoma 
has to be considered in the differential diagnosis.  
Cancer  registries  often  summarise  BCC  together  with  squamous  cell  carcinoma  (SCC)  under  the 
single  label  of  NMSC,  and  rates  for  the  individual  histological  subtypes  are  even  more  difficult  to 
identify.  Despite these limitations, BCC is considered the most common skin cancer in white adults.  
The annual incidence in Europe is estimated between 40 – 140 cases per 100 000, and has been rising 
markedly  over  the  last  20  years,  coming  to  represent  a  significant  burden  on  health  care  systems. 
Incidence rates increase with age, and most patients present after age 60.  Generally speaking BCC is 
more  common  in  men  than  women,  especially  in  the  older  age  groups,  although  the  sex  ratio  for 
sBCCs seems more equal. 
Pathogenesis of BCC 
BCCs are skin cancers which are thought to develop from stem cells of the basal layer of the epidermis 
as a result of DNA damage from intermittent exposure to sunlight.  Continuing exposure to ultraviolet 
B  radiation  further  impairs  immune  defences  and  over  time  immune  surveillance  breaks  down  so 
clinical disease becomes apparent. 
Currently available therapies for BCC 
Current approaches to treat BCC employ a variety of physical or chemical methods:  
•  Simple surgical excision consists of an excision with predetermined margin of surrounding skin  
•  Cryotherapy  
•  Curettage and Electro desiccation. 
•  Photodynamic Therapy (PDT)  
•  5-fluorouracil (5-FU) as a cytotoxic agent, administered topically  
Aldara  may  offer  the  advantage  to  avoid  surgery  in  patients  who  refuse  it  or  to  provide  a  more 
practical treatment. 
2 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.1  Pharmacology 
Imiquimod  works  by  stimulating  antigen-presenting  cells  via  TLR7.    Toll-like  receptors  (TLRs)  are 
highly  conserved  pattern-recognition  receptors  that  function  as  regulators  and  controllers  of  the 
immune  system.  Imiquimod  also  induces  the  production  of  interferon-alpha  (IFN-α),  interleukin-12 
(IL-12),  and  tumour  necrosis  factor-α,  with  a  resulting  cytokine  cascade  that  may  induce  and/or 
support a Th1 (T helper 1) immune response. Interferon induction is a critical function of imiquimod 
for the treatment of viruses and tumours in animal models. 
Three new reports on non clinical pharmacology are included in the variation application. Two further 
define  the  mechanism  of  action  of  imiquimod  in  cytokine  induction.  The  third  report  examines  the 
activity of imiquimod applied topically in a mouse model of UV-induced actinic keratosis lesions. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
3/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In response to the request by the CPMP, the MAH provided a discussion of the pharmacologic effects 
of imiquimod in the intact skin of hairless rats and mice and condyloma acuminata.  
Imiquimod was not tested in any preclinical models of Basal Cell Carcinoma because the lesions are 
difficult to establish in normal mice and require transgenic mice that over-express the Sonic Hedgehog 
gene.   
The  CHMP  therefore  concluded  that  preclinical  data  demonstrating  the  potential  pharmacological 
effect of imiquimod in superficial basal cell carcinoma are not available. 
2.2  Toxicology 
Aldara  5%  cream  (imiquimod)  was  evaluated  in  a  photocarcinogenicity  bioassay  in  albino  hairless 
mice  exposed  to  simulated  solar  ultraviolet  radiation  (UVR).  Animals  were  administered  vehicle 
formulation or imiquimod cream three times per week (100 µl of 0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 % of imiquimod) 
and  were  irradiated  5  days  per  week  for  40  weeks.  Mice  were  maintained  without  treatment  for  an 
additional  12  weeks  to  give  a  total  duration  of  52  weeks.  All  groups  of  mice  administered  any 
formulation were exposed to 600 Robertson-Berger Units (RBU) weekly of simulated solar radiation 
(including UVA, UVB and visible light). Furthermore, there were 2 control groups irradiated at low 
level of UVR (600 RBU/ weekly) and high level (1200 RBU/ weekly) respectively. 
Treatment  with  the  vehicle  resulted  in  a  decreased  time  to  acquire  one  or  more  tumours  when 
compared  with  the  low  UVR  control  group.  The  inclusion  of  imiquimod  in  the  vehicle  did  not 
decrease the time to acquire one or more tumours compared with the vehicle group and on the contrary 
this time is slightly increased at the highest level of imiquimod. 
The CHMP requested that the proposed addition to section 5.3 (“Preclinical Safety Data”) of the SPC 
relating  to  the  results  of  the  photocarcinogenicity  should  be  amended  to  include  a  comment  on 
relevance to man of the vehicle effect on tumours (considering the different dosing schedule), and that 
the  currently  proposed  information  on  a  reduction  in  tumour  formation  in  imiquimod-treated  mice 
should be deleted as it is not relevant to prescribers. 
UV exposure schedule and treatment schedule 
The  CPMP  requested  a  critical  discussion  of  the  5  days  per  week  UVR  exposure  schedule  and  the 
three  days  per  week  test/  control  substance  administration  schedule,  based  on  a  consideration  of  the 
study objectives, the clinical exposure regime and the available scientific information.  The MAH was 
asked  to  explain  the  reasons  for  UVR  exposure  with  no  accompanying  test/  control  substance 
administration on two days, and consider the possible impact on study sensitivity. 
The  MAH  clarified  that  the  photocarcinogenicity  study  was  conducted  in  support  of  the  actinic 
keratosis  indication  (application  now  withdrawn)  as  this  patient  population  is  prone/  predisposed  to 
sun  damage  and  may  have  greater  exposure  to  the  sun.  In  sBCC  the  relationship  to  cumulative  sun 
damage  is  less  apparent.  Clinical  trials  on  actinic  keratosis  used  2-3  days  per  week  exposure,  and 
hence  3  days  per  week  was  used  for  the  photocarcinogenicity  study.  Three  times  a  week  topical 
exposure was shown to be tolerable in  the  2-year carcinogenicity study, and has been determined to 
stimulate  the  immune  system.    More  frequent  dosing  can  lead  to  down  regulation  of  the  immune 
system  leading  to  weight  loss  and  predisposition  to  infection.  Five  days  per  week  application,  as 
proposed for the sBCC indication, was not considered tolerable for mice. 
There will be greater absorption of imiquimod in the mouse than man, as mouse skin is thinner than 
human  skin  and  there  will  be  oral  ingestion  in  mice  because  of  grooming.    This  is  supported  by  a 
report on a 2-week dermal toxicokinetic study which demonstrated systemic exposure. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
4/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  photocarcinogenicity  study  was  preceded  by  a  nine  week  topical  dosage  range  finding  study 
which  examined  doses  up  to  0.6%  three  times  a  week,  with  and  without  UV  radiation.    There  were 
deaths  at  0.6%  with  none  at  0.3%,  suggesting  that  0.3%  was  a  Maximum  Tolerated  Dose.    Other 
changes generally seen at 0.6% (and sometimes at 0.3%) were increased body weight gains, absolute 
spleen weights and relative spleen weights. 
Five day/ week UVR exposure was justified on the basis that this frequency gives a reasonable tumour 
response.  Reducing exposure to three days would result in delayed tumour response, and could result 
in loss of sensitivity.  Furthermore, any change would preclude the use of the testing centre’s historical 
control data. 
The CHMP concluded that if the photocarcinogenicity study is considered in relation to the proposed 
AK  indication  (now  withdrawn),  the  dosage  range  finding  study  presented  shows  that  the 
concentration used and the frequency of application (3 days/week) were appropriate.  No data relevant 
to 5 days per week application (frequency for the proposed sBCC indication) are presented, therefore 
it  has  not  been  shown  experimentally  that  this  frequency  was  unfeasible.  Nevertheless,  the 
photocarcinogenicity  study  does  not  provide  any  suggestion  that  imiquimod  has  photocarcinogenic 
potential. 
The  use  of  five  days  a  week  UV  exposure  and  3  days  per  week  imiquimod  exposure  is  difficult  to 
support on a purely scientific basis.  Adequate UV exposure could have been achieved over 3 days by 
increasing the level of radiation.  From a pragmatic viewpoint, however, the use of a well-established 
UV exposure regime has the important advantage that reference can be made to historical control data.   
Survival rate 
In the photocarcinogenicity bioassay, topical administration of imiquimod in the vehicle had no effect 
or  slightly  reduced  the  vehicle  dependent  enhancement  in  UVR  induced  skin  tumour  development.  
Survival  rate  is  low,  and  even  null  in  some  groups  (high  UVR  control  group,  0.03%  and  0.3% 
imiquimod).   
The MAH commented that survival rate depends on morbidity/ death and tumour burden and provided 
a summary of the reasons for the death of mice in each dose group. 
Criteria for sacrifice are made using criteria designed to minimise animal suffering, but to also ensure 
that there are adequate data for assessment.  The low and high concentration imiquimod groups were 
sacrificed  slightly  prematurely,  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  survival  was  significantly  affected  by 
UVR  exposure,  or  vehicle  or  test  article  administration.    The  CHMP  considered  that  sufficient  data 
were collected to fully assess the photocarcinogenic potential of imiquimod. 
Photosensitivity 
The  photocarcinogenicity  bioassay  was  not  designed  to  test  the  photosensitivity  (phototoxicity  and 
photoallergy). As the skin surface area treated can be exposed to solar ultraviolet radiation, the CHMP 
requested to add a statement in the section 4.4 (“Special warnings and special precautions for use”) of 
the SPC, that the skin surface area treated should be protected against solar exposure and to reflect this 
wording also in the Package Leaflet (PL).  
The  MAH  has  conducted  standard  phototoxicity,  photoallergy  and  photoirritation  clinical  studies  in 
human  subjects.  The  results  of  these  studies  show  that  imiquimod  5%  cream  has  minimal 
phototoxicity,  photosensitivity  or  photoirritancy  potential.  The  standard  of  care  would  be  to  advise 
patients  who  have  already  developed  at  least  one  skin  malignancy  to  adopt  sun  avoidance  and  sun 
protection behaviours.  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
5/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phototoxicity and photoallergy 
Phototoxicity and photoallergy have not been tested as is required in the NfG on photosafety testing.  
As a consequence, a warning to “protect the skin surface area treated against solar exposure” could be 
included  in  the  4.4  section  of  the  SPC.    However,  with  imiquimod  therapy  for  genital  and  perianal 
warts, it is recommended that the application site should not be occluded.   
With  respect  to  the  external  genital  and  perianal  warts  indication  (EGW),  the  statement  warning 
against the use of an occlusive dressing arose from the fact that the use of occlusive dressings was not 
permitted  under  the  conditions  specified  in  the  clinical  trials  for  that  indication.    In  dermatology 
occlusion is used so that covering the skin causes moisture to be retained in the skin.  The macerated 
skin  is  less  efficient  as  a  barrier  and  so  active  drug  is  able  to  penetrate  to  a  greater  extent.    No 
comment was specifically made about exposure to sunlight, since the treated areas were - due to their 
anatomical location in the genital and perianal region - generally protected from exposure. 
The  statements  not  to  use  occlusive  dressings  in  EGW  and  to  protect  the  treated  area  from  solar 
exposure in sBCC are, therefore, considered not to be contradictory. 
The  statements  not  to  use  occlusive  dressings  and  to  protect  the  treatment  area  from  solar  exposure 
have been added to the SPC.  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
6/24 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Clinical aspects 
3.1   Clinical Pharmacology  
The  MAH  has  submitted  a  total  of  eight  pharmacology  studies:  one  of  which  assesses 
pharmacokinetics,  five  assess  initial  tolerability,  and  two  assess  pharmacodynamics  in  basal  cell 
carcinoma. The studies are listed in table 1. 
Table 1: List of clinical pharmacology studies 
Study   Methodology 
1402 
Phase I open-label safety study 
in 58 subjects with AK lesions; 
imiquimod was applied to either 
face, scalp, or hands/arms  
1244 
1249 
1270 
1281 
1359 
1424 
Phase I, vehicle- controlled, 
photocontact allergenicity study 
evaluating imiquimod in 2 
cohorts of 60 healthy subjects 
each; doses applied to lower 
midback. 
Phase I, open-label, vehicle-
controlled, 4-day safety study to 
assess the phototoxic potential of 
imiquimod in 21 healthy 
subjects; doses applied to lower 
midback. 
Phase I, open-label, vehicle-
controlled, 21-day cumulative 
irritation study in 40 healthy 
subjects; doses applied to 
forearm (sun-damaged skin) and 
upper arm (normal skin). 
Phase I, randomised, single-
blinded, vehicle-controlled study 
in 2 cohorts of 22 subjects each 
to assess photoirritation: sunburn 
cell induction and pyrimidine 
dimer formation upon exposure 
to UVR 
Phase I, randomised, double-
blind, vehicle-controlled study in 
24 healthy volunteers; exploring 
histologic response in ‘black’ 
and ‘white’ (sic) healthy 
subjects.  Doses applied to arm 
Phase I, open-label, mechanism 
of action study in subjects with 
histologically confirmed sBCC 
1425 
Phase I, open-label study in 
subjects with sBCC 
Dose frequency/ duration of treatment 
Imiquimod (250 mg)  
3x/week for 16 weeks  
Face group: 1 sachet/dose  
Scalp group: 2 sachets/dose  
Hands/arms group: 6 sachets/dose  
Imiquimod and vehicle cream (200 
µl)[a]: 2x/wk for 3 wks followed by a 
challenge dose (applied to 2 sites) 10-
14 days post last dose  
Results 
Systemic imiquimod serum concentrations were 
generally low, providing a large safety margin. 
Using the calculated area-under-the-curve values, 
safety margins for the 3 topical doses were found to 
be 303, 128, and 11, respectively  
No detectable photocontact allergenicity potential. 
Photoirritation was reported by 42% (25/60) of 
subjects during the induction phase. No SAEs. 
Imiquimod and vehicle cream (200 µl): 
Single dose in duplicate / 24 hours  
No detectable phototoxic potential was observed or 
reported for either imiquimod or vehicle.  No AEs 
were observed or reported during the study. 
Imiquimod and vehicle cream (200 µl): 
7x/week (in duplicate) for 3 weeks  
Imiquimod less irritating to sun-damaged skin than 
normal skin. At least 1 AE was reported by 82.5% 
(33/40) of subjects.  There were no SAEs. 
Imiquimod and vehicle cream (100 µl): 
1x/d (Mon-Sat) for 3weeks, then 1x/d 
(Mon-Th) for 1 week  
Sunburn cell and pyrimidine dimer analyses 
showed that imiquimod did not increase the 
response of white skin to UVR exposure.  No LSRs 
were observed during the course of this study.  
There were no SAEs. 
Imiquimod and vehicle cream (250 
mg): 3x/week for 4 weeks, or  
7x/week for 4 weeks  
Minimal histological changes noted in healthy skin. 
No trends were seen between imiquimod- and 
vehicle-treated sites or any dose frequency related 
trends between the imiquimod treatment groups. 
Imiquimod 5x/week until signs of 
erosion or a max of 6 weeks 
Imiquimod, 5x/week: 
8 subjects dosed until signs of erosion 
or a max of 6 weeks,  
6 subjects dosed for either 1, 2, or 4 
weeks; Vehicle 5x/wk for 2 weeks (4 
subjects) 
Findings suggest that imiquimod treatment may have 
a direct or indirect effect on tumour defence 
mechanisms and local immune activation.  Erosion at 
the target tumour site occurred for all subjects within 
3 weeks of dosing. There was 1 SAE. 
Cell infiltrates consistent with imiquimod 
mediating tumour destruction by an immune-
mediated mechanism.  Application site reactions 
only reported in the imiquimod group. There were 
no SAEs. 
3.1.1   Pharmacodynamics 
The objective of study 1424 was to determine if imiquimod or a cytokine would diminish the ability of 
the  superficial  basal  cell  carcinoma  (sBCC)  tumour  to  avoid  immune  destruction  by  evaluating 
baseline and mid-regression biopsies. Subject eligibility was determined at the prestudy visit and upon 
receipt of dermatopathologist confirmation of an sBCC tumour. Subjects returned to the study centre 
weekly until the target tumour began to show signs of erosion; at this point, the tumour was surgically 
excised, sectioned, and stored in formalin, or was fresh frozen. If erosion did not occur at the target 
tumour site, the tumour was surgically excised after 6 weeks of treatment. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
7/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-  and  post-treatment  biopsy  specimens  from  6  subjects  were  evaluated  for  B-cell  lymphoma-2 
protein  (Bcl-2),  intercellular  adhesion  molecule  (ICAM)-1,  Fas-ligand  (Fas-L),  IL-10,  IFN-γ,  cluster 
designation  (CD)  4,  CD8,  and  transporter  associated  with  antigen  processing  (TAP)-1.    Routine 
haematoxylin and eosin staining was used to determine the percentage and density of infiltrating cells 
from  circulating  blood. Of  the  biomarkers evaluated, only B-cell lymphoma-2  protein Bcl-2 showed 
an ‘improvement’ (decrease) in the majority of patients (4/6).  The data are considered insufficient to 
support  the  addition  of  the  proposed  statement  (section  5.1  of  SPC)  that  imiquimod  reduces  the 
defence mechanisms of superficial basal cell carcinoma. 
Study 1425 was a non-randomised open-label, vehicle-controlled, pilot study to evaluate the cellular 
infiltration into a basal cell carcinoma (clinically diagnosed) after treatment with imiquimod 5% cream 
5x/week for 1, 2 or 4 weeks.  
Immunhistochemistry  results  demonstrated 
infiltration  with  CD4+  T-cells,  dendritic  cells, 
macrophages  and  CD8+  T-cells,  and  comparatively  few  neutrophils  or  γ/δ T-cells,  suggesting  that 
imiquimod  has  an  immune-mediating  tumour  destruction  mechanism  that  is  similar  to  classic  cell-
mediated immune reactions in skin.  The data are insufficient to support the statement that imiquimod 
stimulates the infiltration of tumour-destructive cells in superficial basal cell carcinoma. A number of 
subjects did not have a diagnosis of BCC. No direct comparison can be made to the effects of vehicle 
at reference time points.   
3.1.2  Tolerability studies 
Histological effects in white vs. black skin 
Study  1359  explored  the  differential  histological  effect  in  white  vs.  black  skin,  and  the  effects  on 
melanocytes  in  24  healthy  subjects.  Imiquimod  and  vehicle  cream  was  applied  daily  or  3x/week 
dosing for 28 days or until development of an intense erythematous reaction. Approximately 52.6% of 
all biopsies showed no pathological change (histologically normal skin). Another 31.5% showed only 
mild  superficial  perivascular  dermatitis.  No  significant  histological  changes  were  observed  and  only 
small  and  inconsistent  changes  in  melanocytes  and  melanophage  numbers  which  showed  no  clear 
relationship to drug exposure.  
Skin irritation study on sun-damaged versus normal skin 
Study 1270 was an open-label, vehicle-controlled 21-day study to assess the skin irritation potential of 
imiquimod 5% cream and vehicle cream to sun-damaged and normal skin areas. 40 healthy volunteers 
applied  approximately  0.2  ml  imiquimod  5%  cream  (10.0  mg  imiquimod)  and  vehicle  daily  for 
21 days. The sun-damaged skin had a lower incidence and severity of irritation (8% of the subjects had 
minimal erythema) compared to the normal skin (15% of the subjects had minimal erythema, 10% of 
the subjects had definite erythema and 3% intense erythema).  
Photocontact Allergenicity  
Study 1244 was an open-label, vehicle-controlled, 6-week photocontact allergenicity study in healthy 
Caucasian  subjects  of  skin  type  classification  I-III.  No  subjects  had  a  photocontact  allergenicity 
reaction to either imiquimod 5% or vehicle cream. However, in the first cohort of 60 subjects, 42% of 
the imiquimod and 38% of the vehicle treated sites had maximum skin irritation scores of ≥3 (intense 
erythema)  during  the  study.  Alternation  of  patch  application  sites  for  the  second  cohort  of  subjects 
resulted in less skin irritation.  
Photoirritation  
Study  1281  was  conducted  to  investigate  the  effect  of  imiquimod  on  sunburn  cell  induction  and 
pyrimidine dimer formation in 41 healthy subjects of skin types I - III. Overall, this study showed that 
imiquimod did not increase the response of white skin to UV exposure. 
Phototoxicity  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
8/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  1249,  an  open-label,  vehicle-controlled,  4-day  study  to  assess  the  phototoxic  potential  of 
imiquimod 5% cream in 21 subjects with skin types I-III, revealed no detectable phototoxic potential 
for imiquimod 5% cream or vehicle. 
3.1.3  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of imiquimod cream, 12.5mg – 75mg, 3x/week for 16 weeks, were studied in 
58 subjects with actinic keratosis. Imiquimod serum concentrations after topical administration were 
generally low. A 2- to 4-fold accumulation of imiquimod in serum was observed with multiple dosing. 
Urinary recovery of imiquimod and metabolites combined accounted for ≤ 0.52% of the dose. Safety 
margins comparing pharmacokinetic parameters following topical application to those following oral 
doses  of 100  mg and  300  mg that  produced  no IFN induction ranged from  36 (hands/arms) to  1940 
(face) for Cmax and from 11 (hands/arms) to 597 (face) for AUC. 
The mean imiquimod Cmax and AUC following administration of oral and topical doses of imiquimod 
are given in table 2. 
Table 2: Mean imiquimod Cmax and AUC following administration of oral and topical doses of imiquimod 
Dose (mg) 
Topical 
12.5 
25 
75 
Oral 
100 
200 
200 
300 
AUC0n (ng.hr/ml) 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
2.06 
4.89 
55.4 
625 
1229 
2222 
4877 
0.120 
0.214 
3.53 
126 
232 
320 
493 
The  MAH  states  that  in  study  1402,  the  levels  of  biomarkers  sensitive  to  imiquimod  cream 
(interleukin-1  antagonist,  interferon-α,  and  2’5’-oligoadenylate  synthetase)  increased  nearly  10-fold 
over baseline, and states that the production of these biomarkers was not associated with any systemic 
adverse event. 
The MAH was requested to discuss these findings in more detail, in particular with a view to systemic 
interferon  levels  and  adverse  events  observed  in  the  study  that  might  be  plausibly  explained  by 
interferon.  Also,  the  relevance  of  the  increases  of  interleukin-1  antagonist  and  2’5’-oligoadenylate 
synthetase should  be discussed. Information  regarding systemic  interferon levels should  be  added to 
section 5.1 of SPC (“Pharmacodynamic Properties”). 
The  MAH  has  provided  a  satisfactory  response  to  this  request,  including  an  overview  of  flu-like 
symptoms in relation to data on biomarkers.  
Data obtained in the pivotal studies show that the incidences of flu-like symptoms, fatigue, fever, and 
myalgia were numerically slightly higher in subjects treated with imiquimod 5x/week.  The difference 
was  not  statistically  significant.    Headache  (7.6  vs.  2.2%)  was  reported  significantly  more  often  in 
imiquimod treated subjects.  
It  is  biologically  plausible  that  some  of  the  adverse  effects  of  topical  imiquimod  are  caused  by 
systemic induction of cytokines, e.g. the observed reduction in haematological parameters.  The data 
clearly  show  that  the  systemic  levels  of  alpha  interferon  and  other  cytokines  increased  following 
repeat  administration  of  topical  imiquimod.  It  was  therefore  considered  that  physicians  should  be 
informed this fact. The MAH revised the SPC proposal accordingly. 
3.2  Clinical Efficacy 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
9/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical programme for sBCC includes 19 trials.  Of these, only 3 phase III and two phase II trials 
assess  the  intended  patient  population,  dosing  interval  and  duration  of  treatment.    Table  3  gives  an 
overview of these studies. 
Table 3: Overview of relevant trials - sBCC 
Study Number 
Design 
Total no. of 
patients 
Treatments 
Target lesion(s) 
Histological response 
rates % 
(dosing group) 
Phase III 
1393 
1408 
1412 
Phase II 
1431 
Randomised double-
blind, parallel-group, 
vehicle-controlled 
362 
Randomised double-
blind, parallel-group, 
vehicle-controlled 
362 
Imiquimod 5x/week (n=94) 
Imiquimod 7x/week (n=89) 
Vehicle 5x/week (n=89) 
Vehicle 7x/week (n=90) 
Imiquimod 5x/week (n=91) 
Imiquimod 7x/week (n=90) 
Vehicle 5x/week (n=90) 
Vehicle 7x/week (n=91) 
Primary, non-
infected, not 
previously treated, 
single sBCC ≤2cm 
As above 
78 (5x) 
88(7x) 
87 (5x) 
71 (7x) 
Long-term (5-years) 
open-label, 
uncontrolled  
182 
Imiquimod 5x/week  
Single sBCC ≤2cm 
No histological 
results available.  
Initial clinical 
response rate: 90% 
(5x)  
Randomised, open-
label, parallel-group 
(5x/week and 
7x/week), 
uncontrolled 
67 
Imiquimod 5x/week (n=36) 
Imiquimod 7x/week (n=31) 
2-6 sBCCs ≤2cm 
primary, non-
infected, not 
previously treated 
Histological response 
rate for all target 
tumours: 77% (both 
5x and 7x). 
1432 
Open-label, 
uncontrolled 
66 
Imiquimod 5x/week  
Single large (≥ 2cm) 
BCCs 
Histological response 
rate per patient: 47 
(5x), 
58 (7x) 
86% (5x) 
Dose response studies 
Dosing  frequency  in  the  19  efficacy/  safety  trials  ranged  from  a  single  application  once  a  week  to 
twice daily applications seven days a week, and duration of treatment from six to sixteen weeks. All 
trials test imiquimod 5% cream, no other strengths were investigated.   
The  highest  frequency  (twice  daily  seven  times  per  week)  was  discounted  on  tolerability  grounds. 
Study 1305,  a randomised, double-blind, vehicle-controlled  phase II study  demonstrated  histological 
response rates of only 52% for the 3x/ week as compared to 81% for the 5x/ week dosing group; on 
the basis of these results the 3x/ week dosing schedule was excluded from further development. 
Assessment of the optimum  dosing frequency was performed by pooling the data from studies  1393 
and 1408 and comparing the safety and efficacy results of imiquimod five times weekly or daily across 
trials: At 5x/ week or 7x/ week efficacy was comparable with histological response rates of 82% for 
the five times weekly and 79% for the daily dosing groups. Based on the better local adverse effects 
profile, the 5x/ week dosing schedule was chosen.  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
10/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imiquimod 5% cream is clearly more effective than vehicle in the treatment of sBCC. However, the 
following remarks can be made:  
Strength of imiquimod cream 
All  trials  tested  the  5%  strength.  It  is  not  clear  if  a  similar  effect  could  have  been  achieved  with  a 
1% formulation.    The  5%  formulation  was  shown  to  be  significantly  more  effective  than  the 
1% formulation in two external genital warts trials. These results may be extrapolated to sBCC. This 
issue is therefore not considered to be of major concern. 
Duration of treatment 
The applicant states that the treatment duration chosen for the phase III studies was 6 weeks because 
in the Phase II studies, daily dosing for 12 weeks  (study 1305) did not show an increase in efficacy 
over 6 weeks  (study 1291). However, it is possible that a shorter treatment duration may be sufficient. 
Results from  the  only study evaluating treatment periods less than 6 weeks (study 1418), albeit in a 
small  number  of  patients  with  either  sBCC  or  nBCC,  indicated  identical  complete  histological 
response rates for four and six weeks treatment duration (67%, 8/12 each). 
Dosing frequency 
No  dose  response  studies  were  performed  to  directly  compare  five  times  weekly  with  three  times 
weekly treatment at the recommended treatment duration for six weeks, but this is not considered an 
issue as the relationship between dose frequency and response was consistent across the development 
programme, with increasing dose frequency (up to 5x/week) leading to higher response rates. 
Main studies 
Methods 
Two phase III trials of identical design evaluated the posology proposed for licensing. One-year safety 
data and one-year recurrence rates are available from a further ongoing trial. 
Trial  1393  was  a  randomised,  vehicle-controlled,  double-blind,  parallel  group  study  to  assess  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  imiquimod  5%  cream  for  the  treatment  of  superficial  basal  cell  carcinoma, 
performed at 31 US sites between January 2001 and August 2002.   
Trial  1408,  of  identical  design,  was  performed  at  28  sites  in  the  US  between  February  2001  and 
September 2002. 
Trial 1412 is an open-label study to evaluate the safety and long-term clinical efficacy of imiquimod 
5%  cream  applied  once  daily  5  days  per  week  in  the  treatment  of  sBCC.  The  trial  is  ongoing  at 
27 European  sites.  It  started  in  February  2001,  with  the  treatment  period  being  completed  in 
November 2001. The long-term follow-up phase is ongoing. 
Subjects  were  required  to  have  one  primary,  not  recurrent,  not  previously  treated,  non-infected 
superficial  basal  cell  carcinoma  without  histological  signs  of  aggressive  growth  patterns,  located  on 
the limbs, trunk, neck or head, with a minimum tumour area of 0.5cm2 and a maximum diameter of 2.0 
cm.  Tumours  on  the  head  within  1  cm  of  the  hairline,  eyes,  nose,  mouth,  or  ears  and  those  in  the 
anogenital area were excluded.  Hence, it is proposed that the indication be amended to better reflect 
the patient population studied in the pivotal trials. 
All patients  had  histologically  verified sBCC. This  diagnosis was  made  by two independent  blinded 
dermatopathologists. This may be taken as a reassurance regarding patient selection.  
Less than 1% of patients (6 of 724) were referred after having been biopsied by another clinician. This 
is considered acceptable. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
11/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In studies 1393 and 1408, patients were randomised to treat the target tumour for six weeks with either 
imiquimod 5% cream or vehicle cream, either once daily for five consecutive days per week or daily, 
i.e. 7x/week.   In study 1412, all patients treated the target tumour for six weeks with imiquimod 5% 
cream once daily for five consecutive days per week. 
The  objectives  of  studies  1393  and  1408  were  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  (primary)  and  safety 
(secondary)  of  imiquimod  5%  cream  at  each  of  2  dosing  regimens  compared  to  vehicle  in  the 
treatment of one (1) sBCC tumour in subjects when the cream was applied for 6 weeks. 
The primary objective of the ongoing trial 1412 was to assess the long-term sustained clearance rate, 
defined as the proportion of subjects who were clinically clear of sBCC at the 12-week post-treatment 
visit and remain clear during the 5 year follow-up period. Secondary objectives are the evaluation of 
the safety and cosmetic outcome. 
The  primary  outcome  measure  in  trials  1393  and  1408  was  the  complete  response  rate.  This  was  a 
composite endpoint, defined as the proportion of patients who at the 12-week post-treatment visit: 
1.  had neither clinical (visual) nor histological evidence of sBCC at the target tumour site; or 
2.  who  had  clinical  (visual),  but  not  histological  evidence  of  sBCC  at  the  target  tumour  site,  with 
histological findings providing an explanation of the clinical assessment. 
This endpoint is considered rigorous.  
Results 
362 patients each were included in trials 1393 and 1408; 182 patients were included in trial 1412. All 
randomised  subjects  were  included  in  the  ITT  analyses.  Target  tumours  were  mainly  located  on  the 
trunk  and  on  the  extremities.  Tumours  on  the  neck  and  face  accounted  only  for  a  small  minority  of 
tumours in all pivotal studies. The response rates are given in table 4. 
Table 4: Response rates 
Complete response rates in % (ITT) 
Study 
1393 
1408 
Histological response rates in % (ITT) 
Study 
1393 
1408 
Imiquimod 
5x/week 
70 
80 
Imiquimod 
5x/week 
78 
87 
Vehicle 5x/week 
2 
1  
Vehicle 5x/week 
6 
1 
Imiquimod 
7x/week 
80 
66 
Imiquimod 
7x/week 
88 
71 
Vehicle 
7x/week 
0  
3 
Vehicle 
7x/week 
1 
4 
A  positive correlation  was seen between response rates  and intensity/severity  of local skin  reactions 
(erythema,  erosion,  scabbing/crusting).  As  local  skin  reactions  became  more  severe,  a  higher 
proportion of subjects were complete responders. 
The results of a pooled analysis of studies 1393 and 1408 are given in table 5. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
12/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Pooled analysis of studies 1393 and 1408 
Pooled analysis of pivotal phase III studies 1393 and 1408:Response rates  in % (95%CI) ITT 
Composite response 
Histological response  
Imiquimod 
5x/week 
75 (68, 81) 
82 (76, 87) 
Vehicle 
5x/week 
2 (1, 5) 
3 (2, 7) 
Imiquimod 
7x/week 
73 (66, 79) 
79 (73, 85) 
Vehicle 
7x/week 
2 (1, 5) 
3 (1, 6) 
No statistically significant subgroup effects were found for sex, age, race, sex and age, and geographic 
area. 
In  study  1412,  the  clearance  rate  at  12  weeks  post-treatment  (assessed  clinically,  but  not 
histologically)  was  90%,  and  the  estimated  sustained  clearance  rate  at  12  months  was  92.7%  (87.9-
97.4).  163/182  patients  were  clinically  clear  of  sBCC  at  12  weeks  post-treatment;  10  of  who  had  a 
recurrence within 12 months. Data provided at one year (study 1412) are not considered sufficient to 
assess sustained efficacy and/or recurrence. It is noted that no data was provided at one year (1412) on 
overall cosmetic assessment. 
Supportive Studies 
Multiple sBCCs 
Study 1431, an open-label, parallel-group study assessed efficacy and safety of imiquimod 5% cream, 
5x/ week or 7x/ week for six weeks, in 67 subjects with 2-6 multiple superficial basal cell carcinoma 
lesions.  
Efficacy outcomes are summarised in table 6. 
Table 6: Response rates study 1431 
Multiple sBCCs - Response rates per patient – ITT analysis 
Imiquimod 5x/week 
44  
47  
89 
Complete response 1 
Histological response 2 
Partial response rates 3 
1 proportion of subjects with no clinical evidence of sBCC 
2 proportion of subjects with no histological evidence of sBCC in all their target tumours 
3 proportion of subjects with 50% or more of their of sBCC showing clearance 
Imiquimod 7x/week 
55  
58  
84 
The  histological  response  rate  determined  on  a  per  tumour  level  was  77%  in  all  dosing  groups.  A 
positive  association  was  demonstrated  between  tumour  histological  response  rate  and  severity  of 
erosion, erythema and scabbing/crusting. 
As the above results stemmed from an open label uncontrolled study in a small number of patients, 
the CHMP concluded that this data was not robust enough to warrant inclusion into the SPC. 
Large (≥ 2 cm) sBCCs 
Study 1432, an open-label, uncontrolled phase II study, looked specifically at the clinical problem of 
large tumours.  A total of 66 subjects with sBCCs on the trunk or arms that exceeded 2 cm in at least 
1dimension were treated with imiquimod 5x/ week for 6 weeks.  At the 12-week post treatment visit, 
only  subjects  with  tumours  judged  clinically  suspicious  had  a  full  surgical  excision.    For  subjects 
judged clinically clear, histology was limited to biopsies, as it was not considered ethical to excise a 
large  area  of  clinically  normal  skin.    Thus  the  endpoint  is  not  absolutely  comparable  to  that  in  the 
3 phase III, vehicle-controlled studies, but within this limitations, the complete response rate (ITT) of 
83% seemed similar to that in the other studies. Efficacy outcomes are summarised in table 7. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
13/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Response rates study 1432 
Large sBCCs - Response rates – ITT analysis 
Imiquimod 5x/week 
Complete response 
Histological response 
83% 
86% 
The predicted probability of complete response by target tumour area indicated a negative relationship 
between  tumour  size  and  probability  of  complete  response.  When  the  target  tumour  area  was 
categorised into quartiles, the downward trend was observed for tumour areas greater than 7.25cm2. 
Discussion 
Therapeutic Indication 
The  CHMP  had  requested  that  the  indication  of  Aldara  be  amended  to  “small  superficial  basal  cell 
carcinomas”, in line with the patient population studied in the clinical trials.  
The  CHMP  discussed  whether  the  indication  should  be  restricted  to  "Small  superficial  basal  cell 
carcinomas not amenable to surgical excision ", due to the lack of data on long term clearance rates 
beyond 12 months post-treatment and the fact that no comparative data versus surgery are available. 
The  CHMP  concluded  however,  that  such  indication  would  not  be  in  line  with  the  design  of  the 
clinical studies, in which all tumours treated had to be amenable to surgical excision to allow for post-
treatment  excision  to  confirm  clearance  of  the  tumour.  Furthermore,  imiquimod  local  treatment  is 
intended as alternative to surgery and other non-surgical options when treating sBCC.  
Targeted BCC population 
The targeted BCC population was defined by the Applicant as patients with a minimum tumour area of 
0.5cm2  and  maximum  diameter  of  2.0  cm.    Patients  with  tumours  in  high  risk  areas  (such  as  scalp, 
nose, mouth, ears, and eyes) were excluded from all studies except 1339-IMIQ.  The CHMP requested 
that this should be reflected in the SPC, section 5.1.  
Long term data 
The  CHMP  discussed  whether  the  SPC  should  state  that  excision  biopsy  still  has  to  be  regarded  as 
first-line therapeutic modality, as long-term data for treatment with imiquimod are not yet available.   
Consequently the MAH proposed to include the following statement in section 4.4 of the SPC:  
“As data on long-term clearance rates beyond 12 months post-treatment are not currently available, 
other  appropriate  therapeutic  modalities  should  be  considered  for  sBCC.    Use  of  imiquimod  cream 
may be considered as an alternative in cases where surgery is not desirable or a cosmetic outcome is 
regarded as important.” 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  statement  on  cosmetic  outcome  was  not  supported  by  robust  data. 
Furthermore, in line with the discussion above, the statement restricting the use of imiquimod to cases 
where surgery is not desirable, should be deleted. 
The SPC was amended accordingly. 
Data provided at one year are not sufficient to assess sustained efficacy and/or recurrence. The CHMP 
therefore requested the MAH to add information to  section 5.1  of the SPC stating that no long-term 
data are available.  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
14/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3  Clinical Safety 
Safety margins for systemic exposure 
Safety margins for systemic exposure to imiquimod following topical administration of imiquimod 5% 
cream were calculated in patients with actinic keratosis (study 1402) by comparing the mean Cmax and 
mean AUC of imiquimod following topical administration with values observed following single oral 
doses of imiquimod 100, 200 and 300 mg (safety margin = mean Cmax po/ mean Cmax topical).  
The  safety  margins  for  topical  imiquimod,  compared  with  single  oral  doses  in  humans  known  to 
induce systemic levels of IFN with clinically meaningful symptoms, were calculated as 36 to 1940 for 
peak exposure (Cmax) and 11 to 597 for total exposure (AUC0n).  
Serum IFN was quantifiable in 50% – 67% of subjects following repeat topical dosing. The maximum 
individual  IFN  concentration  was  564U/  ml.  Median  IFN  concentrations  following  multiple  dosing 
were higher (≤3 fold) than those after single dose administration.  Interferon is known to cause adverse 
reactions such as flu-like symptoms, depression, haematological disorders etc. Such adverse reactions/ 
events  have  been  observed  with  imiquimod.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  requested  that  information  on 
systemic levels of interferon be added to the SPC. 
Patient exposure and disposition in clinical trials 
The  supplementary  safety  database  for  sBCC  comprises  a  total  of  1881  subjects  exposed  to 
imiquimod,  1574  with  basal  cell  carcinoma  (some  data  from  the  treatment  of  nodular  rather  than 
superficial  BCC);  58  with  actinic  keratosis;  and  249  healthy  volunteers.  In  addition,  549  subjects 
received vehicle control.  A further 59 subjects have been exposed in 3 ongoing studies and add to the 
at-risk population.  The maximum cumulative dose for any individual treated for a sBCC was 306 mg. 
The maximum duration was 16 weeks and the most frequent dosing regimen studied was 2x/ day 7x/ 
week. 
Adverse events 
Seven  (7)  deaths  occurred  during  the  BCC  clinical  trial  programme.  None  of  the  deaths  were 
considered related to treatment.  
Seventy-five  (75)  imiquimod-treated  patients  experienced  86  non-fatal  serious  adverse  events  in  the 
sBCC  studies.  Of  those,  only  one  (non-Hodgkin  lymphoma,  persistent)  was  considered  possibly 
related to imiquimod.  No conclusion can be made from this single case. 
Common  and  non-serious  adverse  events  (NSAEs)  data  with  incidences  ≥5%  were  recorded  for 
application site disorders (28.5%), body as a whole – general disorders (6.0%), central and peripheral 
nervous  system  disorders  (6.2%),  and  respiratory  system  disorders  (5.7%).    When  reviewed  at  the 
level of the preferred term, only application site reactions still exceeded a 5% threshold, and accounted 
for all the events that mapped to the corresponding body system.  
The largest contributor to the reports appearing in central and peripheral nervous system disorders was 
headache,  accounting  for  8%  of  the  total  of  11%.    Headache  has  been  reported  in  association  with 
systemic IFN treatment, and therefore, with an incidence >5% and statistically different to vehicle, it 
seems plausible as a true treatment-related AE.  Lymphadenopathy was seen to account for almost all 
the reports that mapped to white cell and resistance disorders.  
Application  site  reactions  such  as  erythema,  oedema,  induration,  vesicles,  erosion,  ulceration, 
scabbing/  crusting  and  flaking/  scaling  were  observed  frequently.    The  intensity  of  application  site 
reactions  appeared  to  be  correlated  to  response  rates.  The  majority  of  application  site  reactions 
resolved upon cessation of treatment. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
15/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  states  that  confirmed  skin  infections  suggest  no  association  with  imiquimod  overall,  yet 
treatment  site  infections  confirmed  by  culture  appear  to  occur  at  a  higher  incidence  in  imiquimod-
treated patients than in vehicle-treated patients.  Treatment site infections were reported as an adverse 
event  in  36  patients  with  sBCC,  29  of  which  were  confirmed  by  culture.  Treatment  in  most  cases 
consisted  of  a  rest  period  only.  In  some  cases  topical  and/  or  systemic  antibiotics  were  prescribed. 
There were no clinically significant sequelae. The CHMP requested that relevant information be added 
to section 4.8 of the SPC. 
All  treatment  groups  showed  an  increase  in  the  scores  for  scarring.  A  significant  increase  of 
hypopigmentation  was  also  observed.  Rough/  dry/  scaly  skin  surface  decreased  in  all  groups  after 
treatment. The CHMP requested that the SPC and the PL include information on hypopigmentation. 
No specific statement was added regarding scarring since all patients involved in the pivotal trials had 
the tumour site biopsied for diagnosis prior to treatment and excised for histological examination post-
treatment to confirm clearance of the tumour.  Therefore it is not possible to differentiate the extent of 
any post-treatment scarring which is attributable to imiquimod therapy from that caused by the biopsy 
and excision. 
Laboratory findings 
Statistically significant decreases from baseline to end of treatment were found for haemoglobin, white 
cell count, and platelet count. The decreases were small and the mean levels generally remained within 
the  normal  ranges.    In  addition,  individual  case  reports  of  significant  reduction  in  haematological 
parameters were reported in the PSUR, covering the period 27 February 2002 to 26 February 2003. 
In view of these adverse haematological findings, the CPMP requested a detailed expert safety review 
of  the  haematological  changes  reported  from  all  clinical  trials  (independent  of  indication)  and  the 
marketed use of imiquimod. Also, the MAH should include information on the observed changes in 
haematology parameters in the SPC. 
The MAH has submitted a satisfactory response to this point. The data confirm that topical imiquimod 
treatment  results  in  modest  decreases  in  haematologic  parameters  that  are  probably  not  of  clinical 
concern.  No  conclusion  about  the  impact  of  these  changes  can  be  made  for  patients  with  clinically 
significant  haematologic  conditions  because  such  patients  were  excluded  from  the  actinic  keratosis 
and basal cell carcinoma trials.  
However,  the  CHMP  considered  that  physicians  should  be  informed  about  the  potential  modest 
adverse effects of imiquimod on haematologic indices.  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
16/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Overall Discussion  
The  submitted  data  are  considered  to  support  the  efficacy  of  imiquimod  5%  cream  in  the  topical 
treatment of small superficial basal cell carcinomas.  
The  recommended  dosage schedule  of  5x/ week is justified  by data indicating that topical treatment 
3x/  week  results  in  a  lower  rate  of  histological  clearance  (52%)  than  5x/  week  (81%),  whilst  the 
clearance rates of 5x/ week was similar to that of 7x/ week.  
The lower frequency of local adverse effects was clearly in favour of the 5x/ week dosing schedule. 
It is not possible to determine from the submitted clinical data whether a six-week treatment schedule 
results  in  better  response  rates  compared  to  for  example  four  weeks.  This  is  not  considered  a  major 
public health issue that would preclude granting the variation.   
No  data  are  available  to  assess  recurrence  rates  for  up  to  5-years  following  imiquimod  therapy.  
Interim  results  from  a  long-term  open-label  uncontrolled  study  indicate  an  estimated  sustained 
clearance of 92%, with 10 of 163 patients having clinical evidence of a recurrence within 12 months.  
The  CHMP  agreed  that  a  condition  for  the  approval  of  this  variation  should  be  that  the  applicant 
submits  data  on  sBCC  recurrences  at  yearly  intervals  and  after  the  end  of  the  ongoing  long-term 
studies. 
Limited data, derived from open-label uncontrolled studies in a small number of patients, are available 
for  large  sBCCs  and  for  multiple  sBCCs.  These  data  appear  to  support  the  findings  of  the  pivotal 
studies, with similar response rates on an individual tumour level when multiple tumours were treated, 
but lower response rates for larger tumours (>7.25cm2). 
Local application of imiquimod 5% cream is associated with a significant number of adverse events, 
mainly  consisting  of  local  skin  reactions  that  may  be  severe  in  a  considerable  number  of  patients. 
These skin reactions are considered to be related to the pharmacological effects and if required can be 
successfully managed by rest periods without compromising efficacy.   
Adverse  events  probably  caused  by  systemic  interferon-levels,  such  as  fatigue,  fever,  myalgia,  were 
observed slightly more commonly in imiquimod-treated patients than in vehicle treated patients. The 
difference was not statistically significant. 
Topical  imiquimod  treatment  resulted  in  modest  decreases  in  haematological  parameters  that  are 
probably  of  no  clinical  concern.  No  conclusion  about  the  impact  of  these  changes  can  be  made  for 
patients  with  clinically  significant  haematological  conditions  because  such  patients  were  excluded 
from the trials.  A relationship with drug exposure is considered biologically plausible. 
No data are available to assess relative risk/benefit of imiquimod as compared to other non-surgical or 
surgical options. However, on the basis of the data presented, imiquimod may be considered a useful 
therapeutic option in the treatment of small superficial basal cell carcinomas. 
In  conclusion,  the  risk/benefit  ratio  for  imiquimod  in  the  proposed  indication  sBBC  is  considered 
positive.  
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
17/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Changes to the Product Information  
Summary of Product Characteristics 
The CHMP requested the following amendments to the proposed SPC: 
Section 4.1 
 “Therapeutic indications” 
The indication should be reworded as follows: “small superficial basal cell carcinomas” 
Section 4.2 
 “Posology and method of administration” 
The CHMP requested that this section include the information that lesion response should be assessed 
after  three  months.    Also,  information  should  be  given  that  lesion  sites  showing  an  incomplete 
response should be treated using a different treatment modality, with a cross-reference to section 4.4.  
(“Special warnings and special precautions for use”).  
A recommendation should be given to temporarily interrupt treatment when treatment site infections 
are observed or when required by patient’s discomfort or severity of local skin reactions, with a cross-
reference to section 4.4.  
The recommendation “After this period it is recommended that imiquimod cream is removed with mild 
soap  and  water”  should  be  amended  to  read  “After  this  period  it  is  recommended  essential  that 
imiquimod cream is removed with mild soap and water”. 
Section 4.4  
“Special warnings and special precautions for use” 
The CHMP requested the following amendments: 
Information applicable to all indications 
Information applicable to all indications should be stated at the beginning of this section.  This should 
also include a statement that the treatment site should not be occluded with tapes or bandages.  This is 
already  mentioned  in  the  SPC  for  external  genital  warts  and  was  also  a  precaution  in  the  phase  III 
studies for BCCs. 
Information applicable to BCCs 
The CHMP requested the addition of a precautionary statement reflecting the fact that until long-term 
data become available other appropriate therapeutic modalities should be considered for sBCC. 
Use of imiquimod for recurrent sBCCs 
The  SPC  should  state  that  no  clinical  experience  exists  with  the  use  of  Aldara  for  recurrent  and 
previously  treated  tumours.    Therefore  the  use  should  not  be  recommended  for  tumours  previously 
treated.  Also, re-treatment with Aldara should not be recommended. 
Use of imiquimod for large sBCCs 
The SPC should include the information that data from an open-label clinical trial suggest that larger 
tumours (>7.25cm2) are less likely to respond to imiquimod therapy.  
Use of imiquimod for sBCC in immunocompromised patients 
The  SPC  should  state  that  no  clinical  experience  exists  with  the  use  of  Aldara  for  sBCC  in 
immunocompromised patients.  
As the skin surface area treated can be exposed to solar ultraviolet radiation, the CHMP requested that 
a statement was added that the skin surface area treated should be protected from solar exposure. 
Section 4.8 
 “Undesirable effects” 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
18/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since external genital and perianal warts, AK, and superficial BCC are different skin conditions and 
occur in different anatomical areas, side effect profiles were not combined and presented separately in 
the  SPC.    The  CHMP  requested  that  the  information  given  in  this  section  should  be  updated  as 
requested  at  renewal  to  include  MedDRA  terminology.    Adverse  events  considered  at  least  possibly 
causally related to treatment, and with an incidence of ≥0.1%, should be included.  The frequencies of 
adverse effects should be defined as outlined in the Guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The  CHMP  requested  that  relevant  safety  information  from  the  submitted  new  clinical  studies  is 
added. Information on treatment site infections should be added. The observed haematological effects 
should be listed. 
The frequency of influenza-like illness was corrected to read ‘uncommon’. Local adverse effects were 
described in more detail.  Information regarding hypopigmentation was added.  
Section 5.1 
 “Pharmacodynamic properties” 
The  CHMP  requested  to  add  information  regarding  systemic  alpha  interferon  and  other  cytokines 
following topical application of imiquimod. 
The CHMP found that the data are insufficient to support the statement that imiquimod stimulates the 
infiltration  of  tumour-destructive  cells  in  superficial  basal  cell  carcinoma.  A  number  of  subjects  did 
not have a diagnosis of BCC. No direct comparison can be made to the effects of vehicle at reference 
time points.   
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  pharmacological  program  to  investigate  the  mechanism  of  action 
included  a  low  number  of  patients.  There  was  no  consistent  evidence  (statistical)  that  shows  local 
immune-mediated response correlates with clearance. The data are considered insufficient to support 
the addition of the proposed statement that imiquimod reduces the defence mechanisms of superficial 
basal cell  carcinoma. Consequently  the  CHMP requested that the  corresponding proposed  paragraph 
should be deleted.  
The CHMP requested the MAH to include information on BCC population targeted in the majority of 
clinical trials (single primary superficial basal cell carcinomas with a minimum size of 0.5 cm2 and a 
maximum diameter of 2 cm) and to inform that tumours located within 1 cm of the eyes, nose, mouth, 
ears or hairline were excluded from the studies. 
Data provided at one year are not sufficient to assess sustained efficacy and/or recurrence. Therefore, 
the CHMP requested the MAH to add information stating that no long-term data are available.  
Section 5.2 
 “Pharmacokinetic properties” 
The new method used detects systemic concentrations below 5 ng/ml.  It is stated in the proposed SPC 
that“  The  data  defining  systemic  absorption  of  imiquimod  are  limited  by  the  use  of  bioanalytical 
method with a 5 ng/ml lower limit of quantitation”.  The CHMP requested that this sentence should be 
deleted.  In addition, the following paragraph “Percutaneous absorption of imiquimod cream has been 
studied  over  a  wide  spectrum  of  skin  types,  including  healthy  intact  skin  and  the  lesions  of  sun 
damaged skin.  These studies should also encompass the likely pharmacokinetics of imiquimod cream 
across  the  affected  skin  of  patients  with  superficial  basal  cell  carcinoma/actinic  keratosis.    The 
percutaneous penetration of imiquimod cream following topical administration for 8 – 12 hours was 
minimal in all cases. “should be deleted as this section concerns Actinic Keratosis patients and not a 
wide spectrum of skin types. 
Section 5.3 
 “Preclinical safety data” 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
19/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  requested  that  the  proposed  addition  relating  to  the  results  of  the  photocarcinogenicity 
should be amended to include a comment on relevance to man of the vehicle effect on tumours, and 
that the currently proposed information on a reduction in tumour formation in imiquimod-treated mice 
should be deleted as it is not relevant to prescribers. 
Package Leaflet 
Where relevant, above changes are also reflected in the Package Leaflet (PL). 
The PL is split into separate documents, one for each indication.  This may possibly confuse patients.  
Also, it results in a lot of information being duplicated and some important information missing from 
the sBCC part of the PL, in particular, with regard to  “Undesirable effects”. 
Therefore,  the  PL  text  has  been  reformatted  to  present  the  information  for  each  indication  under  a 
single heading, rather than separating out the indications completely.  In the revised format, however, 
it has still proved necessary to indicate that certain information is specific to a particular indication.   
In addition, the CHMP requested that BCC should be more clearly explained to patients. The CHMP 
also requested that the dosing instructions should be improved. 
III.  CONCLUSION 
The CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wording to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  Package  Leaflet,  based  on  the 
observations and the appropriate conclusions, subject to the additional follow-up measures undertaken 
by the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
The CHMP adopted on 3 June 2004 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the terms of the 
Community Marketing Authorisation, as amended. 
Aldara/H/C/179/II/20 
20/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
