SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Aldara.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 December 2001. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Anogential warts are a sexually transmitted  disease,  with  a  high rate  of transmission  and significant 
psychosocial  morbidity.  They  are  caused  by  human  papilloma  virus  (HPV),  a  small  non-enveloped 
caspid  DNA  virus, which  infects epithelial cells.  The  most  common  presentation is with condyloma 
acuminata,  which  are  exophytic,  cauliflower-like  lumps.  Subclinical  HPV  lesions  (flat  condylomas) 
may  be  identified  by  staining  with  acetic  acid,  which  shows  them  as  slightly  raised  shiny  white 
(acetowhite) and rough surface. Condyloma acuminata may involve any part of the genitalia, and are 
commonly found on the penis, vulva, vagina, perineum, and the anus. Secondary internal involvement 
may occur in the cervix, urethra or rectum. In the immunocompromised patient condylomata may be 
particularly extensive and persistent. 
It is estimated that the incidence of anogenital warts in the world is around 20 million cases per year. 
Transmission is mainly sexual, although vertical transmission of genital warts may occur from mother 
to child at birth. 
No  antiviral  treatment  is  available  podophyllin,  which  has  antimitotic  activity,  is  used  though 
recurrence is common. Initial local removal of genital warts through chemical and surgical destruction 
is  preferable  particularly  with  larger  condylomataand  none  of  the  local  methods  of  treatment  are 
entirely satisfactory. The oldest treatment. Interferon (IFN) α, β or γ may be of value in the treatment 
of persistent anogenital warts. 
Imiquimod is an immune response modifier. It is not a nucleoside analogue and its activity is believed 
to be principally due to induction of interferon alpha (IFN-α), and other pro-inflammatory cytokines. 
Anti-viral activity and anti-tumour activity have been demonstrated in animal models.  
ALDARA  cream  is  indicated  for  the  topical  treatment  of  external  genital  and  perianal  warts 
(condyloma acuminata) in adult patients.  
Imiquimod  cream  should  be  applied  three  times  per  week  (every  other  day  followed  by  a  2-day 
treatment  –free  interval)  prior  to  normal  sleeping  hours,  and  should  remain  on  the  skin  for  6  to  10 
hours.  Imiquimod  cream  treatment  should  continue  until  there  is  clearance  of  visible  genital  and 
perianal warts or for a maximum of 16 weeks. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
ALDARA  is  presented  as  a  cream  containing  5%  w/w  imiquimod  in  an  off-white  oil-in-water 
vanishing cream base consisting of isostearic acid, benzyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, white 
soft  paraffin,  polysorbate  60,  sorbitan  stearate,  glycerol,  methyl  hydroxybenzoate,  propyl 
hydroxybenzoate,  xanthan  gum  and  purified  water.  The  primary  packaging  material  consists  of 
individual  heat  sealed,  single  use  sachets,  each  containing  250  mg  of  cream,  containing  12.5  mg  of 
imiquimod. The sachets are constructed from a multi-layer laminate. There is one package size of 12 
sachets. 
Active substance 
Imiquimod  is  a  heterocyclic  amine.  It  is  a  white  to  off-white,  crystalline  solid  that  is  practically 
insoluble in water and common organic solvents as the free base, but becomes more soluble as a salt 
form. Imiquimod is a relatively stable drug and is not hygroscopic. 
The  molecule does not  possess any asymmetric  carbon atoms  and does  not exhibit stereoisomerism. 
No polymorphic forms of this compound have been identified.  
1/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  free  base  of  the  active  ingredient,  imiquimod,  is  synthesised  in  a  six-step  process.  The  crude 
imiquimod  produced  is  purified  by  converting  it  to  imiquimod  salt,  treating  with  activated  carbon, 
filtered, basified to precipitate the active which is then washed with a solvent then water and finally 
dried under vacuum. The in-process controls applied to the synthesis are appropriate and satisfactorily 
control the quality of the active drug substance. 
Potential  synthetic  impurities  have  been  identified  and  characterised.  These  impurities  are  limited 
individually to  not  more than 0.1% and  in total to  not  more than 0.3%. The  residual  solvents  in the 
drug substance are at levels far below the proposed ICH limits. 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identity (IR, UV), residual solvents, 
loss  on  drying,  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals,  chloride,  iron,  total  specified  and  unknown  related 
substances and assay. The analytical methods used have been validated. Batch analyses data confirm 
the consistency and uniformity of the active substance. 
Finished product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  pharmaceutical  development  conducted  by  the  company  resulted  in  the  production  of  an  oil  in 
water  cream  taking  into  consideration  the  physiochemical  properties  of  the  active,  particularly  with 
skin  barrier. 
regard 
Temperature/solubility  relationships  were  investigated  with  regard  to  the  manufacturing  and 
packaging processes and the ability of the oil phase to retain the active in solution.  
for  penetration 
solubility,  and 
requirements 
through 
the 
the 
to 
Formulations  using  two  preservative  systems  were  selected  for  clinical  trials.  In  vitro  studies  were 
conducted to demonstrate that the two formulations released imiquimod at the same rate. One of the 
systems  was  found  to  result  in  the  precipitation  of  an  insoluble  salt  of  imiquimod  and  was 
subsequently  abandoned,  resulting  in  one  formulation  being  taken  forward  in  the  application  for 
marketing authorisation.  
The preservative effectiveness of this product was found to rely heavily on the level of preservative in 
the  product  and  reduction  over  time  may  result  in  observed  variable  efficiency  of  the  system. 
However,  as  the  finished  product  is  packaged  in  single-dose  sachets  the  preservative  system  was 
considered adequate. 
Manufacture and control 
A typical oil-in-water cream non-sterile process manufactures the cream. The two phases are prepared 
separately.  The  aqueous  phase  is  added  to  the  oily  phase  under  vacuum.  The  emulsion  is 
homogenised,  mixed  and  subsequently  cooled  down  with  continuous  mixing.  The  critical  processes 
include  temperature  control,  mixing  times,  vacuum  rate,  and  environmental  control.  Additional 
validation  data  (type  of  emulsion,  droplet  size,  confirmation  of  complete  drug  dissolution)  were 
provided for the bulk and finished product and no significant differences were noted. The in-process 
controls applied during manufacture appear, from batch analyses data, to give a reproducible product. 
With  respect  to  other  ingredients,  the  cream  contains  isostearic  acid  as  solubiliser  for  the  active 
ingredient,  cetyl  and  stearyl  alcohols  as  viscosity  modifiers,  white  soft  paraffin  as  emollient, 
polysorbate 60 and sorbitan stearate surfactants, benzyl alcohol as preservative and co-solvent, methyl 
and  propyl  hydroxybenzoate  as  preservative,  glycerol  as  co-solvent  and  viscosity  modifier,  xanthan 
gum as viscosity modifier, and purified water. All the excipients, with the exception of isostearic acid 
and  xanthan  gum,  comply  with  the  requirements  of  Ph.Eur  or  B.P.  Xanthan  gum  is  controlled  to 
USNF with an additional test for microbiological quality. An in-house monograph controls Isostearic 
acid. 
Control  tests  applied  on  the  finished  product  include  appearance,  identification  (imiquimod,  methyl 
and  propyl  hydroxybenzoates,  benzyl  alcohol),  assay 
(imiquimod,  methyl  and  propyl 
hydroxybenzoates,  benzyl  alcohol),  degradation  product,  pH,  viscosity,  microbiological  quality  and 
minimum fill weight. The methods were satisfactorily validated and appear capable of controlling the 
bulk  intermediate  and  the  finished  product  within  their  specifications.  Results  from  batch  analyses 
showed that batches complied with release specifications. 
2/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
The active substance has shown good stability characteristics when tested under a number of different 
conditions. The data provided fully support the proposed 2 year re-test period for the active substance.  
For the bulk cream the shelf-life when stored below 25°C and protected from freezing is supported by 
data  generated  on  2  batches  stored  at  25°C  over  6  months.  For  finished  product  packaged  at  the 
commercial production site in the UK, stability data are available on batches stored and tested under 
ICH  conditions.  Supplementary  data  covering  storage  during  transport  were  presented.  The  results 
demonstrate  decreases  in  viscosity  (but  within  the  proposed  limits)  with  no  other  parameter 
significantly affected. Overall the data support the shelflife as defined in the SPC. Additional real time 
data from on-going stability studies with the product intended for marketing will be submitted when 
available. 
In  summary,  the  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  for  imiquimod  was  considered  to  be 
acceptable. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic action of imiquimod has been studied in vitro and in vivo.  
In  cultured  murine  cells  imiquimod  induced  cytokine  secretion  in  a  wide  variety  of  cell  types 
including  spleen,  bone  marrow,  liver,  peritoneal  exudate  and  alveolar  macrophages.  The  pattern  of 
cytokines  differed  between  the  cell  types.  Studies  with  mouse  macrophages  produced  results 
consistent with a cell surface receptor for imiquimod. Further in vitro studies showed that imiquimod 
is  a  potent  inducer  of  cytokines  in  human  peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells  (PBMC).  Its  two 
metabolites  were  also  potent  inducers.  Induction  occurred  1-2  hours  after  exposure  and  generally 
peaked after 8 hours.  
In a study of the mode of action, cytokine gene expression in a human epidermal carcinoma cell line 
(COLO-16)  and  human  keratinocytes  following  exposure  to  imiquimod  was  determined.  There  was 
both stimulation (1 µg/ml) and down-regulation (10 µg/ml) of IL-6 and IL-8 mRNA synthesis. Further 
experiments  with  keratinocytes  showed  that,  of  the  5  cytokines  assayed,  IL-8  was  present  in  the 
supernatant  whereas  there  was  little  or  no  effect  in  cultures  of  melanocytes  or  fibroblasts.  In  this 
instance, imiquimod was substantially less potent than Poly I:C (50 µg/ml). 
The ability of imiquimod to stimulate cytokine production was confirmed in in vivo studies conducted 
mainly  in  mice  (both  normal  and  immunodeficient),  but  also  in  rats,  guinea  pigs  and  Cynomolgous 
monkeys. The results confirm the ability of imiquimod to stimulate cytokine production. 
Antiviral activity has been examined in cell cultures and in in vivo animal infection models. In vitro 
imiquimod  inhibited  rhinovirus  1A,  respiratory  syncytial  virus  and  varicella  zoster  virus  as  assessed 
by  50%  plaque  reduction  in  virus-infected  cells.  In  guinea  pigs  a  single  oral  dose  (5  mg/kg)  was 
effective  against  primary  genital  herpes  (HSV-2)  infection.  Under  certain  conditions  intravaginal 
imiquimod  reduced  latent  neural  HSV-2  in  ganglia  and  also  recurrences,  with  early  or  prolonged 
treatment being of respective importance. 
In other animal infection models, imiquimod was effective against Rift Valley fever and Banzi viruses 
(in  mice)  and  yellow  fever  virus  (in  Cynomolgous  monkeys).  With  regard  specifically  to  HPV, 
imiquimod administered at 5-mg/kg i.p. to  mice implanted with tumours  expressing the HPV 16 E7 
gene reduced the weight of tumours by up to 84%. 
Imiquimod  was  shown  to  be  an  effective  anti-tumour  agent  in  mice  implanted  with  a  number  of 
different tumour cell types.  
Imiquimod has been assessed in safety pharmacology tests both in vitro and in vivo. Although there 
were a number of findings in the intravenous dog study (cardiac stimulation, central nervous system 
stimulation  and  some  autonomic  nervous  system  inhibition),  none  of  the  effects  found  raised  any 
safety concerns.  
3/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of imiquimod was studied in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, the main species 
used  in  the  preclinical  program.  Following  oral  administration  imiquimod  was  rapidly  absorbed. 
Following  repeated  dermal  administration  of  1  or  5  mg/kg  imiquimod  during  a  4  week  rat  toxicity 
study,  the  systemic  exposure  to  imiquimod  or  its  metabolites  was  minimal.  No  imiquimod  or 
metabolite  was  detected  in  the  plasma  of  the  low  dose  group,  low  doses  of  the  metabolite  S-26704 
were found at 5 mg/kg (approximately 25 times the clinical dose).  
Distribution  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  (pigmented  and  non-pigmented)  and  monkeys  with 
radiolabelled  compound  administered  orally.  Distribution  was  wide  and  rapid  in  both  species  with 
higher levels in the organs of elimination (liver, kidney and gall bladder) compared to the plasma after 
72 hours. In pigmented rats high concentrations were found in the skin and eye and were still high 72 
hours  after  dosing,  indicating  non-specific  melanin  binding.  In  pregnant  rabbits  14  C-imiquimod  was 
administered intravenously. Radiolabel was present in the uteri, placentae, amniotic fluid and foetuses. 
The  exact distribution  within  the  foetus  as determined by whole body autoradiography has not  been 
established.  
There  are  relatively  few  animal  data  on  metabolites.  In  rat  urine,  however,  radiochromotography  of 
untreated  urine  revealed  3  peaks  increasing  to  6-7  following  hydrolysis  with  β-glucuronidase.  The 
structure  of  the  two  major  metabolites  formed  by  hydroxylation,  S-26704  and  S-27700,  was 
determined from human urine. They are also found in rat and monkey. Excretion is via the urinary and 
biliary routes.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity of imiquimod was studied in mice, rats and monkeys. These studies indicated a 
high degree of safety. Adverse effects were limited to the central nervous system resulting in a number 
of clinical signs, usually convulsions, prior to death. 
In  two  dermal  toxicity  studies  in  rabbits  with  doses  of  2000  and  5000  mg/kg  under  occlusion  there 
were no deaths and no signs of toxicity other than mild transient erythema at the application site. 
Repeated dose toxicity of imiquimod after oral administration was studied in rats and monkeys up to 
6 months. In both studies, the only adverse effects apart from slight effects on body weight and food 
consumption were considered to be the result of exaggerated pharmacological activity, i.e. hyperplasia 
of B- and T-cell lymphoid tissue, increased number of plasma cells, enlargement of spleen and lymph 
nodes,  Kupffer  cell  hyperplasia,  mononuclear/macrophage  cell  accumulation  or  proliferation.  These 
included over-stimulation and in some animals subsequent down-regulation of lymphoid tissue. These 
effects were reversed during a recovery period during which animals were not dosed. There were no 
other target organs and a No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) of 3mg/kg was established in 
both species. 
Dermal toxicity studies, where imiquimod was applied three times per week, were conducted in rats 
(up to 4 months), and mice (up to 4 months). In rats significantly decreased body weight and increased 
spleen weight were observed at 0.5 and 2.5 mg/kg, and local skin irritation (severe erythema, slight to 
moderate oedema, desquamation and scabbing) more severe than that seen in humans was observed. 
Histopathological  examination  revealed  epidermal  inflammation  with  epidermal  ulceration  and 
hyperkeratosis.  There  was  no  good  dose/response  relationship  and  a  No  Observed  Effect  Level 
(NOEL) was not established. In treated mice spleen weight was increased, however, was not attributed 
to  systemic  exposure  to  imiquimod  and  its  metabolites,  which  is  negligible  following  dermal 
administration.  In  mice  there  was  a  better  dose/response  and  a  NOEL  of  0.4  mg/kg  (approximately 
twice the clinical exposure).  
In a general reproductive performance and fertility study and teratogenicity study in rats, dams showed 
moderate  signs  of  toxicity  including  decreased  body  weight  gain  and  food  consumption,  tremors 
and/or convulsions. In pups there was decreased body weight and/or retarded ossification. There were 
no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of the F0 generation nor any effects on the post-
natal  development  and  reproductive  performance  of  the  F1  generation.  In  a  general  reproductive 
performance and fertility study in rabbits, the only signs of toxicity were tremors and convulsions in 
the dams. There were no effects on the pups. 
4/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests, imiquimod lacked genotoxic potential. 
The carcinogenic potential of imiquimod following dermal application was assessed in mice over 18 
months. Benign squamous cell tumours (including papillomas and keratocarcinomas) were detected in 
the skin at the application site in 4 control and 3 high dose animals. In addition, lymphosarcomas at 
the  application  site  were  found  in  one  control  and  in  high  dose  animals.  There  were  no  differences 
between control and high dose animals in the incidence of other tumours or non-neoplastic lesions.  
Ocular and skin irritation studies in the rabbit were conducted with imiquimod and imiquimod cream. 
The  results indicate that imiquimod itself is not  irritant and that the cream is in general  only mildly 
irritant. 
Vaginal  irritancy  of  1%  and  5%  imiquimod  creams  has  been  assessed  in  rats  and  rabbits.  In  rabbits 
there  was  no  vaginal  irritation.  In  rats  there  was  no  histopathological  evidence  of  vaginal  irritation 
however there were  monocytic infiltrates below the vaginal epithelium, increased spleen weight and 
lymphoid hyperplasia consistent with the pharmacological activity of the compound. 
Minor differences in the formulations used in animal studies compared with the clinical formulation 
were adequately addressed by the applicant and are not considered to pose a problem. 
Summary and conclusion on preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  in  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  Imiquimod  has  been  shown  to  stimulate  the 
production of several cytokines, in particular α interferon, from a number of different cell types. The 
subsequent  effects  on  cells  of  the  immune  system result  in  antiviral  and  anti-tumour  activity.  There 
were  adverse  effects  in  safety  pharmacology  studies  but  these  are  of  no  relevance  to  the  proposed 
clinical use where topical application does not result in systemic exposure. 
Overall, the toxicology program indicates a high degree of safety with no target organ toxicity other 
than that attributed to exaggerated pharmacological activity. Imiquimod did not affect fertility and it 
was neither teratogenic nor genotoxic. In carcinogenicity study in mice there was  no increase in the 
incidence  of  tumours  or  non-neoplastic  lesions  as  the  result  of  dermal  exposure  to  imiquimod.  This 
information has been included in the Summary of Products Characteristics (SPC). 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  program  was  aimed  at  evaluating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  imiquimod  cream  for  the 
topical treatment of external genital and perianal warts (condyloma acuminata) in adult patients. The 
core  clinical  documentation  consisted  of  16  clinical  pharmacology  studies,  3  phase  II  studies  and  5 
phase II/III trials. 
Pharmacodynamics and Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of imiquimod were studied in 9 phase I trials 
in healthy volunteers or genital wart patients. Both oral and topical administration of imiquimod cream 
resulted in stimulation of cytokines, including interferon α. The data indicate that imiquimod does not 
have a direct anti-viral effect, but that it stimulates immune body responses to fight the viral infection. 
Two cumulative irritation studies, in which Aldara cream was applied using an occlusive patch system 
once  daily  for  21  days,  showed  that  the  active  control  was  more  irritating  than  imiquimod,  and 
imiquimod was more irritating than vehicle. 
Pharmacokinetic  profile:  Negligible  absorption  of 
imiquimod  occurred  after  radiolabelled 
imiquimod  was  applied  to  the  forearm  of  healthy  volunteers  in  two  studies  and  to  patients  with 
anogenital warts in one study. Urinary recovery of imiquimod after single and repeat application was 
<0.9% of the total dose. No quantifiable levels of (≥ 5  ng/ml) of imiquimod or its  metabolites were 
detected in serum of patients following single or multiple topical doses. 
The data defining systemic absorption of imiquimod are limited by the use of a bioanalytical method 
with  a  5-ng/ml  lower  limit  of  quantification.  Systemic  exposure  (percutaneous  penetration)  was 
calculated from recovery of carbon-14 from radiolabelled imiquimod in urine and faeces. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  oral imiquimod 50  - 300  mg,  and subcutaneous imiquimod  15  and 30  mg, 
were  studied  in  4  trials in  116  healthy volunteers and  16 patients with anogenital warts in  one trial. 
5/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After  oral  administration  imiquimod  was  rapidly  absorbed.  The  mean  Cmax  after  100  mg  imiquimod 
was 120 ± 60 ng/ml, AUC of 573 ± 301 ng.hr/ml and t1/2 was 2.7 hours. A linear dose-concentration 
relationship  was  shown  for  doses  in  the  range  of  100-250  mg.  Orally  administered  imiquimod  is 
rapidly and extensively metabolised into two main metabolites S-26704 and S-27700. Only 0.2 – 0.6% 
of an oral dose was recovered as unchanged compound in the urine. 
Interactions:  Interaction  studies  have  not  been  conducted  with  the  topical  formulation.  This  was 
considered  acceptable,  as  interactions  with  systemic  drugs  would  be  limited  by  the  minimal 
percutaneous  absorption  of  imiquimod  cream.  This  has  been  noted  in  section  4.5  of  the  SPC.  A 
warning  that  there  is  a  lack  of  experience  with  regard  to  concomitant  use  of  imiquimod  cream  with 
other topical therapy is included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Special populations: No alteration in dose or schedule of application of imiquimod cream has been 
recommended for older patients (75 years or older) or for patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
Bioequivalence: Three different formulations of 5% imiquimod cream were used in the clinical trial 
programme  (development  formulations  –  2d  &  2h  and  the  proposed  market  formulation  –  2e).  No 
direct  comparisons  have  been  made  amongst  these three  formulations.  However,  the  pharmaceutical 
differences between them do not raise a serious concern relating to their safety or efficacy. 
Therapeutic efficacy 
The main therapeutic efficacy data are derived from five controlled phase II/III trials carried out in a 
total of 1031 patients. Of the 1031 patients, 421 patients were treated with imiquimod cream 5%, 192 
with 1%, and 418 received vehicles only. In addition, three open phase II studies in 94 male patients 
provided the basis for the dosing regimen used in the pivotal studies.  
Open  pilot  studies:  Two  open  pilot  phase  II  studies  (004  and  005),  in  male  patients,  indicated  that 
both 1% and 5% imiquimod cream applied for 24 hours, three times weekly and once daily, caused a 
reduction in the wart area and in wart number but the wart area tended to increase when the treatment 
was  stopped.  The  frequency  of  application,  whether  three  times  weekly  or  daily,  did  not  appear  to 
have  particular  impact.  The  third  open  pilot  study  in  uncircumcised  male  patients  (study  1147) 
enrolled insufficient numbers of patients and was discontinued. 
Double blind, controlled studies: One phase II trial and four phase III trials were randomised, double 
blind, parallel group and vehicle controlled. 
Study 
Formulation (Imiquimod %/Vehicle) 
5% 
vehicle 
1% 
Phase II 
R-837T-017  
51 
- 
Phase III 
1004-IMIQ 
1005-IMIQ 
1109-IMIQ 
1110-IMIQ 
109 
94 
94 
73 
102 
90 
- 
- 
57 
100 
95 
101 
65 
Age 
Range(years) 
[mean ± SD] 
Male/Female 
18-69 
[30 ± 9] 
18-70 
[31 ± 11] 
18-62 
[31 ± 10] 
18-71 
[33 ± 9] 
17-73 
[27 ± 11] 
98/10 
180/131 
154/125 
195/0 
0/138 
Patient  population:  Treated  or  untreated  males  and  non-pregnant  and  non-lactating  female  patients 
over the age of 18 were included. In the phase III trials, patients were required to have 2 to 50 warts at 
study entry prior to biopsy and have a minimum post-biopsy wart area of 10 mm2. Studies 1109 and 
1110 also defined a maximum wart area of 2000 mm2 post-biopsy. All patients had negative HIV tests. 
Patients who had previously received imiquimod, interferon or interferon inducers, oral or topical anti 
viral therapy were excluded, as were patients with rectal, urethral, cervical, or vaginal warts. 
6/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The genital/perianal warts were diagnosed by clinical inspection, which was confirmed by biopsy for 
the phase III trials. The histology of the biopsy had to be suggestive of or diagnostic of HPV infection 
for inclusion. In addition, in situ hybridisation for HPV typing was conducted on biopsies from two of 
the trials. 
Dose regimens: Three  of the five controlled studies  had two groups of patients who received either 
5% imiquimod cream or vehicle only (017, 1109, 1110). In the two other studies (1004 and 1005) a 
third  group  of  patients  were  treated  with  1%  imiquimod  cream  in  order  to  allow  the  assessment  of 
dose response. In all studies imiquimod was given three times per week except in study 1005, where it 
was  given  every  day.  The  cream  was  applied  for  8  hours  a  day  in  all  studies  except  for  study  017 
where it was retained for 24 hours. 
Efficacy  parameters:  The  primary  efficacy  criteria  were  the  total  clearance  of  all  visible 
baseline/target  warts  during  the  treatment  period.  Patients  who  had  total  wart  clearance  during  the 
treatment period were assessed for recurrence of baseline/target warts during a 12-week treatment-free 
follow-up period. Secondary endpoints included partial clearance, as defined by a > 50% reduction in 
baseline  wart  area.  Both  ITT  and  per  protocol  analyses  were  presented.  Recurrence  rates  were 
calculated using withdrawals excluded analysis. 
Efficacy results: 
Total  clearance  rates:  The  phase  II  trial  showed  that  5%imiquimod  cream  was  significantly  better 
than vehicle alone in producing total wart clearance. The median time to total clearance was 7 weeks 
in the imiquimod group. There were no patients with total wart clearance in the vehicle group. 
The  results  of  the  4  phase  III  efficacy  studies  show  that  5%  imiquimod  was  significantly  more 
effective than vehicle, with intent-to-treat total wart clearance rates of 15-52% in the imiquimod group 
as  opposed  to  3-18%  in  the  vehicle  group.  The  median  time  to  total  clearance  of  the  genital  warts 
ranged from 7-12 weeks in the imiquimod group and 8-13 weeks in the vehicle treated group. In the 
two  studies  that  included  the  1%  strength,  the  5%  formulation  was  found  to  be  significantly  more 
effective than the 1%, with intent-to-treat total clearance rates of 50% and 52% versus 21% and 14% 
respectively. 
Partial  clearance  rates:  Partial  clearance  rates  as  defined  by  >50%  reduction  in  the  baseline  wart 
area, were significantly higher in the 5% imiquimod group than the vehicle treated group. The intent-
to-treat partial clearance rates ranged between 46-81% in the imiquimod group as compared with 10-
45% in the vehicle treated group. The partial clearance rates in the group treated with 1% imiquimod 
were considerably lower, at 35-37%, than the 5% group. 
The intent-to-treat total rate of clearance in study 1109, which included only male patients was lower 
(15%  imiquimod,  4%  vehicle)  than  the  other  studies,  which  included  female  patients.  In  two  (1004, 
1005) of the three trials which included both male and female patients (017, 1004, 1005) the total and 
partial clearance rates were higher in the females. This may be due to the different keratinisation and 
moisture content of the lesions. However, it is also possible that these differences are due to a lower 
spontaneous clearance in the males treated with vehicle alone compared to the females. The total and 
partial  clearance  rates  with  5%  imiquimod  in  male  patients,  although  lower  than  those  in  females, 
remains significantly higher than those in the vehicle treated group. 
Recurrence rates: The recurrence rates were defined as the percentage of patients whose anogenital 
warts  recurred  during  the  follow-up  period,  having  completely  cleared  during  the  treatment  period. 
The patients who withdrew during the follow-up period were excluded from the analysis in order to 
avoid a spuriously low recurrence rate. The recurrence rates were consistently higher in the imiquimod 
group than in the vehicle group, although these differences were not statistically significant. There is 
sufficient evidence to suggest, however, that clinical benefit over the 16 week treatment period and the 
short  period  of  follow-up  is  greater  than  that  with  vehicle  alone.  The  follow-up  period  of  12  weeks 
may be too short to demonstrate the true recurrence rates in the treatment of anogenital warts, since up 
to 70% of warts recur within a year regardless of the treatment. 
All trials excluded patients who had been previously treated with imiquimod, there are therefore no 
data to assess the value of the repeat application of imiquimod in treatment of recurrence of anogenital 
warts. 
7/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosing  schedule  and  duration  of  application:  The  5%  imiquimod  cream  produced  greater  total 
clearance  of  anogenital  warts  regardless  of  whether  it  was  given  three  times  weekly  or  on  a  daily 
basis. The safety profile of the two regimens, however favored the three times weekly regimen. 
Similarly, the efficacy of 5% imiquimod was the same whether it was left on the application site for 8 
hours or 24 hours. However it was considered much more practical to apply cream only for the normal 
duration of sleep, i.e. 8 ± 2 hours. 
Efficacy in immune deficient patients: Sufficient data to support the efficacy of imiquimod in HIV 
patients has not been provided. A warning has been added to indicate this in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Combination with other therapies: No studies to examine the effect of combining imiquimod with 
other  therapies  used  for  the  treatment  of  anogenital  warts,  such  as  surgical  removal,  cryotherapy, 
podophyllin, or trichloroacetic acid have been carried out. Two studies examined the safety of topical 
imiquimod  following  wart  ablation  by  electrocauterisation  (24  patients)  and  by  cryotherapy  (18 
patients). There were no differences in median time to wound healing or in the incidence of reported 
adverse  reactions  after  cryotherapy  and  imiquimod  compared  with  cryotherapy  and  vehicle.  The 
adverse  reactions  were  significantly  higher  in  the  imiquimod  group  after  electrocauterisation 
compared to the vehicle treated group.  
Summary and conclusions on efficacy:  
There is sufficient evidence that imiquimod 5% cream given three times weekly for 8 hours a day is 
superior to both vehicle and 1% imiquimod cream both in terms of total and partial clearance of the 
anogenital warts. Imiquimod  5% cream  appears to  have a  greater  benefit in  females as compared  to 
males. However, there is sufficient evidence to show that imiquimod does have some benefit in men.  
The follow-up period in the efficacy studies was not long enough to ascertain whether the recurrence 
rate after treatment with imiquimod is lower than existing therapies. There is no efficacy or safety data 
to assess the value of repeat applications of imiquimod in recurrent anogenital warts. The duration of 
application is limited to 16 weeks. 
Sufficient data to support the efficacy of imiquimod in HIV patients has not been provided. However, 
it is recognised that HIV positive patients respond less well to other therapies for warts as well. 
Safety 
The safety database for imiquimod was derived from 1031 patients in five phase II/III studies and 709 
patients in phase I/II trials. All patients had anogenital warts. Safety data from a small pilot study in 
HIV  positive  patients  has  also  been  presented.  A  total  of  980  patients  or  subjects  were  exposed  to 
imiquimod 5% and 250 patients or subjects exposed to imiquimod 1% cream. In the controlled clinical 
trials, 412 patients received imiquimod (1% and 5%) three times weekly and 176 patients received it 
once daily. There is no safety data for the use of imiquimod beyond 16 weeks, i.e. a single treatment 
cycle. Ten patients became pregnant during the trials. 
In the clinical programme there was one death during or shortly after treatment with imiquimod. The 
cause  of  death  was  overdose  with  methamphetamine  and  fluoxetine  hydrochloride  and  it  was 
considered to be unrelated to imiquimod. 
In  clinical  trials,  13  patients  treated  with  imiquimod  and  4  patients  treated  with  vehicle  suffered  a 
serious adverse experience. All apart from one case of stricturing of the foreskin, were not thought to 
be related to the study drug. 
In the 21 completed trials with topically applied imiquimod, 21 % (359/1740) withdrew from the trial. 
Only  1.8%  (31/1740)  of  these  discontinued  due  to  adverse  events:  17  for  local  skin  reactions,  9  for 
other adverse events (including the one death) and 5 for laboratory abnormalities. 
In controlled trials the most commonly reported adverse events were local skin reactions. Remote skin 
reactions, mainly erythema, were also reported in these trials. These reactions were at non-wart sites, 
which may have been in contact with imiquimod cream. Most skin reactions were mild to moderate in 
severity and resolved within 2 weeks of treatment cessation. 
In  the  trials  with  three  times  a  week  dosing,  the  most  frequently  reported  adverse  drug  reactions 
judged to be possibly or probably related to imiquimod cream treatment were application site reactions 
8/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
at  the  wart  treatment  site,  reported  by  up  to  79%  of  patients.  Some  systemic  adverse  reactions, 
including  headache,  flu-like  symptoms,  and  myalgia  were  also  reported  by  imiquimod  and  vehicle 
treated patients. 
Adverse reaction 
Application Site Reactions: 
Itching 
Burning 
Pain 
Systemic Reactions: 
Headache 
Influenza-like symptoms 
Myalgia 
32% 
26% 
8% 
4% 
3% 
1% 
Females 
Males 
20% 
12% 
2% 
3% 
2% 
0% 
22% 
9% 
2% 
5% 
1% 
1% 
10% 
5% 
1% 
2% 
0% 
1% 
Other adverse events that were specifically examined included depression in view of the single case of 
death due to methamphetamine overdose and the known association of interferon and depression, even 
though very little imiquimod is absorbed after topical application. Depression occurred in 13 patients 
in the whole clinical programme (1740 patients). Most of these cases were attributed to pre-existing 
depression (5) or to intercurrent illness (8). One case was thought to be possibly related to therapy. 
No abnormal trends in routine laboratory test data were noted (biochemistry with liver function tests, 
haematology).  Leucopenia  was  associated  with  oral  administration  of  imiquimod.  Statistically 
significant  decreases  in  neutrophils,  absolute  neutrophils  and  basophils  at  the  end  of  treatment  as 
compared with baseline were seen with topical use of imiquimod 5% cream. However, there were no 
consistent trends and these changes did not appear to be clinically significant.  
Elderly  patients:  The  safety  data  with  imiquimod  cream  in  patients  older  than  65  years  of  age  are 
limited to 4 patients. However, as the number of elderly patients using imiquimod is likely to be low, 
the lack of data is accepted. A warning that there is limited experience in patients older than 65 years 
of age has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Pregnant patients: Ten patients who had received imiquimod became pregnant during clinical trials. 
Of these, 1 patient miscarried, 4 chose to terminate, 2 were lost to follow-up and 3 delivered healthy 
full term babies. 
Uncircumcised  males:  Although  uncircumcised  males  were  at  no  point  excluded  from  studies,  the 
majority  of  males  recruited  were  circumcised.  The  safety  database  in  uncircumcised  men  with 
foreskin-associated warts treated with imiquimod cream three times weekly, who were retracting the 
foreskin  and  washing  the  area  daily,  is  less  than  100  patients.  In  other  studies,  in  which  a  daily 
foreskin hygiene routine was not followed, there were two cases of severe phimosis and one case of 
stricture leading to circumcision. 
The  company  is  currently  carrying  out  studies  to  fully  profile  the  effect  of  imiquimod  in 
uncircumcised  patients.  Until  further  data  is  available,  a  warning  that  imiquimod  cream  for  the 
treatment of uncircumcised men with foreskin-associated warts is not recommended unless the benefit 
is felt to outweigh the risk has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. Furthermore, stricture of the 
foreskin is clearly described. 
HIV  Positive  Patients:  The  safety  data  in  topically  treated  HIV  positive  patients  is  limited  to  62 
males  and  3  females.  Application  site  reactions,  diarrhoea  and  herpes  simplex  were  the  commonest 
adverse  events.  Although  the  incidence  of  these  adverse  events  was  considerably  higher  in  the 
imiquimod treated group, these differences were not statistically significant. 
Patients  with  renal  and  hepatic  impairment:  There  are  no  data  with  the  use  of  imiquimod  in 
patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment.  However  as  the  systemic  absorption  of  imiquimod  after 
topical application is negligible, this is not likely to be clinically important. 
Summary and conclusions on clinical safety: 
Imiquimod  cream  appears  to  be  associated  with  a  significant  number  of  adverse  events,  mainly 
consisting  of  local  skin  reactions.  Other  adverse  events  reported  were  flu-like  symptoms  and  fungal 
infections.  In  uncircumcised  male  patients  with  warts  under  the  foreskin,  the  safety  data,  although 
9/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limited, shows that the likelihood of local skin reactions, including stricture of the foreskin requiring 
circumcision, is sufficiently high to warrant concern. This has been highlighted in section 4.4 of the 
SPC. 
Adequate  evidence  of  the  safety  of  imiquimod  in  elderly  patients  has  not  been  provided  and  this 
information has been included in the SPC. The safety data are limited in HIV positive patients. 
Overall Risk / Benefit analysis 
Imiquimod cream appears to be an effective therapy for the treatment of anogenital warts. The safety 
profile in circumcised male patients and in female patients appears to be acceptable. It is used as an 
outpatient treatment applied by the patients themselves. Most of the therapies currently available are 
painful  and  may  require  local  and  sometimes  regional  or  general  anaesthesia  depending  upon  the 
extent of the warts. They also require trained medical staff to perform the treatment. Imiquimod cream 
offers  an  alternative  to  currently  available  treatment  for  anogenital  warts  in  circumcised  males  and 
females. 
For uncircumcised male patients with warts under the foreskin a warning that treatment in this patient 
population  is  not  recommended  unless  the  benefit  is  felt  to  outweigh  the  risk  has  been  included  in 
section  4.4  of  the  SPC  until  further  safety  data  are  presented.  The  importance  of  a  daily  foreskin 
hygiene  routine  when  imiquimod  is  used  in  this  patient  population  has  also  been  noted.  As  repeat 
treatment with imiquimod cream after recurrence of warts has not been studied, a warning that repeats 
treatment with imiquimod cream is not recommended has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
To further establish the benefit to risk balance with reference to current therapy the CPMP discussed 
whether  a  comparator  study  with  podophyllotoxin  should  be  undertaken.  The  CPMP  agreed  that  a 
comparator trial would not be pursued in this case due to practical difficulties in conducting a blinded 
clinical  trial.  Additionally  there  would  be  problems  because  the  comparator  (podophyllotoxin)  has 
different topical formulations and different dosage regimens registered throughout the EU. 
5. 
Conclusion 
The quality of ALDARA cream, as demonstrated in the chemical and pharmaceutical documentation, 
is considered acceptable. 
Based  on  preclinical  pharmacodynamic  studies,  both  oral  and  topical  administration  of  imiquimod 
produce an increase in interferon and other cytokines, as well as CD4 TH1 markers. In animal models 
imiquimod is effective against viral infections and acts as an antitumor agent principally by induction 
of alpha interferon and other cytokines. It appears that while imiquimod does not have a direct anti-
viral activity, it stimulates body responses which help fight the viral infection..  
ALDARA  5%  cream  given  three  times  weekly  has  demonstrated  statistical  superiority  in  efficacy, 
when  compared  to  vehicle  (placebo),  in  treating  external  genital  and/or  perianal  warts.  The  safety 
concern  of  foreskin  stricture  in  uncircumcised  males  and  the  concern  that  repeat  treatment  with 
imiquimod cream has not been studied have been adequately addressed with the inclusion of warnings 
in section 4.4 of the SPC. Therefore, the CPMP considered the benefit to risk assessment positive and 
recommended the granting of a Marketing Authorisation for this medicinal product. 
10/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
