ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Aldurazyme 100 U/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
1 ml contains 100 U (approximately 0.58 mg) of laronidase. 
Each vial of 5 ml contains 500 U of laronidase. 
The activity unit (U) is defined as the hydrolysis of one micromole of substrate (4-MUI) per minute. 
Laronidase is a recombinant form of human α-L-iduronidase and is produced by recombinant DNA 
technology using mammalian Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell culture.  
Excipient(s) with known effect: 
Each vial of 5 ml contains 1.29 mmol sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
A clear to slightly opalescent, and colourless to pale yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Aldurazyme is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with a confirmed 
diagnosis of Mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I; α-L-iduronidase deficiency) to treat the non-
neurological manifestations of the disease (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Aldurazyme treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients 
with MPS I or other inherited metabolic diseases. Administration of Aldurazyme should be carried out 
in an appropriate clinical setting where resuscitation equipment to manage medical emergencies would 
be readily available. 
Posology 
The recommended dosage regimen of Aldurazyme is 100 U/kg body weight administered once every 
week.  
Paediatric population 
No dose adjustment is necessary for the paediatric population. 
Elderly 
The safety and efficacy of Aldurazyme in patients older than 65 years have not been established and 
no dosage regimen can be recommended in these patients. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of Aldurazyme in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency have not been 
evaluated and no dosage regimen can be recommended in these patients. 
Method of administration 
Aldurazyme is to be administered as an intravenous infusion. 
The initial infusion rate of 2 U/kg/h may be incrementally increased every fifteen minutes, if tolerated, 
to a maximum of 43 U/kg/h. The total volume of the administration should be delivered in 
approximately 3-4 hours. For information on pre-treatment, see section 4.4. 
For instruction on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
Home Infusion 
Infusion of Aldurazyme at home may be considered for patients who are tolerating their infusions well 
and have no history of moderate or severe IARs for a few months. The decision to have a patient move 
to home infusion should be made after evaluation and upon recommendation by the treating physician.   
Home infusion infrastructure, resources, and procedures, including training, must be established and 
available to the healthcare professional. Home infusion should be supervised by a healthcare 
professional who should be always available during the home infusion and for a specified time after 
infusion. Appropriate information should be given by the treating physician and/or nurse to the patient 
and/or caregiver prior to initiation of home infusion. 
Dose and infusion rate should remain constant while at home, and not be changed without supervision 
of a healthcare professional. 
If the patient experiences adverse reactions during the home infusion, the infusion process should be 
stopped immediately, and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated (see section 4.4). 
Subsequent infusions may need to occur in a hospital or in an appropriate setting of outpatient care 
until no such adverse reaction is present. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Severe hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylactic reaction) to the active substance or to any of the excipients 
listed in section 6.1 (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis) 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis have been reported in patients treated with 
Aldurazyme (see section 4.8). Some of these reactions were life threatening and included respiratory 
failure/distress, stridor, obstructive airways disorder, hypoxia, hypotension, bradycardia, and urticaria. 
Appropriate medical support measures, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment should be 
readily available when Aldurazyme is administered. 
If anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions occur, the infusion of Aldurazyme should be 
discontinued immediately  Caution should be exercised if epinephrine is being considered for use in 
patients with MPS I due to the increased prevalence of coronary artery disease in these patients. In 
patients with severe hypersensitivity, desensitization procedure to Aldurazyme may be considered. If 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the decision is made to re-administer the product, extreme care should be exercised, with appropriate 
resuscitation measures available.  
If mild or moderate hypersensitivity reactions occur, the infusion rate may be slowed or temporarily 
stopped. 
Once a patient tolerates the infusion, the dose may be increased to reach the approved dose. 
Infusion-associated reactions (IARs) 
IARs, defined as any related adverse event occurring during the infusion or until the end of the 
infusion day were reported in patients treated with Aldurazyme (see section 4.8).  
Patients with an acute underlying illness at the time of Aldurazyme infusion appear to be at greater 
risk for IARs. Careful consideration should be given to the patient’s clinical status prior to 
administration of Aldurazyme. 
With initial administration of Aldurazyme or upon re-administration following interruption of 
treatment, it is recommended that patients be administered pre-treatment medicines (antihistamines 
and/or antipyretics) approximately 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion, to minimise the 
potential occurrence of IARs. If clinically indicated, administration of pre-treatment medications with 
subsequent infusions of Aldurazyme should be considered. As there is little experience on resumption 
of treatment following prolonged interruption, use caution due to the theoretical increased risk of 
hypersensitivity reaction after treatment interruption. 
Severe IARs have been reported in patients with pre-existent severe underlying upper airway 
involvement and therefore specifically these patients should continue to be closely monitored and only 
be infused with Aldurazyme in an appropriate clinical setting where resuscitation equipment to 
manage medical emergencies would be readily available. 
In case of a single severe IAR, the infusion should be stopped until the symptoms are resolved and 
symptomatic treatment (e.g. with antihistamines and antipyretics/ anti-inflammatories)  should be 
considered. The benefits and risk of re-administering Aldurazyme following severe IARs should be 
considered. The infusion can be restarted with a reduction of the infusion rate to 1/2 – 1/4 the rate of 
the infusion at which the reaction occurred. 
In case of a recurrent moderate IAR or re-challenge after a single severe IAR, pre-treatment should be 
considered (antihistamines and antipyretics/anti-inflammatories and/or corticosteroids) and a reduction 
of the infusion rate to 1/2 – 1/4 the rate of the infusion at which the previous reaction occurred.  
In case of a mild or moderate IAR,  symptomatic treatment (e.g. with antihistamines and 
antipyretics/anti-inflammatories) should be considered and/or a reduction in the infusion rate to half 
the infusion rate at which the reaction occurred.  
Once a patient tolerates the infusion, the dose may be increased to reach the approved dose. 
Immunogenicity 
Based on the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trial, almost all patients 
are expected to develop IgG antibodies to laronidase, mostly within 3 months of initiation of 
treatment.  
As with any intravenous protein medicinal product, severe allergic-type hypersensitivity reactions are 
possible.  
 IARs and hypersensitivity reactions may occur independently of the development of anti-drug 
antibodies (ADAs). 
Patients who have developed antibodies or symptoms of IARs should be treated with caution when 
administering Aldurazyme (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients treated with Aldurazyme should be closely monitored and all cases of infusion-associated 
reactions, delayed reactions and possible immunological reactions reported. Antibody status, including 
IgG, IgE, neutralizing antibodies for enzyme activity or enzyme reuptake, should be regularly 
monitored and reported. 
In clinical studies IARs were usually manageable by slowing the rate of infusion and by (pre-) treating 
the patient with antihistamines and/or antipyretics (paracetamol or ibuprofen), thus enabling the 
patient to continue treatment.  
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 30 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 1.5% of the WHO recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult, and is administered in 0.9% sodium chloride 
intravenous solution (see section 6.6).  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. Based on its metabolism, laronidase is an unlikely 
candidate for Cytochrome P450 mediated interactions.  
Aldurazyme should not be administered simultaneously with chloroquine or procaine due to a 
potential risk of interference with the intracellular uptake of laronidase. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are inadequate data on the use of Aldurazyme in pregnant women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects on pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition and 
postnatal development (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Therefore 
Aldurazyme should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Breast-feeding 
Laronidase may be excreted in milk. Because there are no data available in neonates exposed to 
laronidase via breast milk, it is recommended to stop breast-feeding during Aldurazyme treatment. 
Fertility 
There are no clinical data on the effects of laronidase on fertility. Preclinical data did not reveal any 
significant adverse finding (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The majority of the related adverse events in the clinical trials were classified as infusion-associated 
reactions (IARs), experienced by 53% of the patients in the Phase 3 study (treated for up to 4 years) 
and 35% of the patients in the under 5 study (up to 1 year of treatment). Some of the IARs were 
severe. Over time the number of these reactions decreased. The most frequent adverse drug reactions 
(ADRs) were: headache, nausea, abdominal pain, rash, arthralgia, backpain, pain at extremity, 
flushing, pyrexia, infusion site reactions, blood pressure increased, oxygen saturation decreased, 
tachycardia and chills. Post-marketing experience of infusion-associated reactions revealed reporting 
of cyanosis, hypoxia, tachypnoea, pyrexia, vomiting, chills and erythema, in which some of these 
reactions were severe. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
ADRs to Aldurazyme reported during the Phase 3 study and its extension in a total of 45 patients age 
5 years and older and treated up to 4 years are listed below using the following categories of 
frequency: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare 
(≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Due to the small patient population, an ADR reported in a single patient is classified as 
common. 
MedDRA 
System Organ Class 
Immune system 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Not known 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Hypersensitivity 
Headache 
Restlessness 
Paraesthesia, dizziness 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Flushing 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Tachycardia 
Hypotension, pallor, 
peripheral coldness 
Respiratory distress, 
dyspnoea, cough 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea, abdominal pain  Vomiting, diarrhoea 
Bradycardia 
Hypertension 
Cyanosis, hypoxia, 
tachypnoea, 
bronchospasm, 
respiratory arrest, 
laryngeal oedema, 
respiratory failure, 
pharyngeal swelling, 
stridor, obstructive 
airways disorder 
Lip swelling, swollen 
tongue 
Erythema, facial edema,  
Angioedema, swelling 
face, urticaria, pruritus, 
cold sweat, alopecia, 
hyperhidrosis 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Rash 
Arthropathy, arthralgia, 
back pain, pain in 
extremity 
Pyrexia, infusion site 
reaction* 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Chills, feeling hot, 
feeling cold, fatigue, 
influenza like illness, 
injection site pain 
Body temperature 
increased, oxygen 
saturation decreased 
Extravasation, oedema 
peripheral 
Drug specific antibody, 
neutralizing antibodies, 
blood pressure increased 
* During clinical trials and post-marketing experience, infusion/injection site reactions notably 
included: swelling, erythema, oedema, discomfort, urticaria, pallor, macule, and warmth. 
A single patient with pre-existing airway compromise developed a severe reaction three hours from 
the start of the infusion (at week 62 of treatment) consisting of urticaria and airway obstruction, 
requiring tracheostomy. This patient tested positive for IgE. 
Additionally, a few patients who had a prior history of severe MPS I- related upper airway and 
pulmonary involvement, experienced severe reactions including bronchospasm, respiratory arrest, and 
facial oedema (see section 4.4). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
ADRs to Aldurazyme reported during a Phase 2 study in a total of 20 patients, under 5 years of age 
and mainly of the severe phenotype, treated up to 12 months are listed below. ADRs were all mild to 
moderate in severity.  
MedDRA 
System Organ Class 
Cardiac disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
MedDRA  
Preferred term 
tachycardia 
pyrexia 
chills 
blood pressure increased 
oxygen saturation 
decreased 
Frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
In a phase 4 study 33 MPS I patients received 1 of 4 dose regimens: 100 U/kg IV every week 
(recommended dose), 200 U/kg IV every week, 200 U/kg IV every 2 weeks or 300 U/kg IV every 
2 weeks. The recommended dose group had the fewest number of patients who experienced ADRs and 
IARs. The type of IARs was similar to those seen in other clinical studies. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Immunogenicity 
Almost all patients developed IgG antibodies to laronidase. Most patients seroconverted within 
3 months of initiation of treatment; although seroconversion in patients under 5 years old with a more 
severe phenotype occurred mostly within 1 month (mean 26 days versus 45 days in patients 5 years 
and older).  By the end of the Phase 3 study (or at time of early study withdrawal), 13/45 patients had 
no detectable antibodies by radioimmunoprecipitation (RIP) assay, including 3 patients that had never 
seroconverted.  Patients with absent to low antibody levels showed a robust reduction in urinary GAG 
level, whereas patients with high antibody titers showed variable reduction in urinary GAG. The 
clinical significance of this finding is unknown since there were no consistent relationships between 
IgG antibody level and clinical efficacy endpoints. 
In addition 60 patients in the Phase 2 and 3 studies were tested for in-vitro neutralising effects. Four 
patients (three in the Phase 3 study and one in the Phase 2 study) showed marginal to low level in vitro 
inhibition of laronidase enzymatic activity, which did not appear to impact clinical efficacy and/or 
urinary GAG reduction. 
The presence of antibodies did not appear to be related to the incidence of IARs, although the onset of 
IARs typically coincided with the formation of IgG antibodies. The occurrence of IgE antibodies was 
not fully explored.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Inappropriate administration of laronidase (overdose and/or infusion rate higher than recommended) 
may be associated with adverse drug reactions. An excessively fast administration of laronidase may 
result in nausea, abdominal pain, headache, dizziness and dyspnoea. 
In such situations and according to the patient's clinical status, the infusion should be stopped or the 
infusion rate slowed down immediately. If medically appropriate, further intervention may be 
indicated.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Enzymes. 
ATC code: A16AB05. 
MPS I disease 
Mucopolysaccharide storage disorders are caused by the deficiency of specific lysosomal enzymes 
required for the catabolism of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). MPS I is a heterogeneous and 
multisystemic disorder characterised by the deficiency of α-L-iduronidase, a lysosomal hydrolase 
which catalyses the hydrolysis of terminal α-L-iduronic residues of dermatan sulfate and heparan 
sulfate. Reduced or absent α-L-iduronidase activity results in the accumulation of the GAGs, dermatan 
sulfate and heparan sulfate in many cell types and tissues.  
Mechanism of action 
The rationale for enzyme replacement therapy is to restore a level of enzymatic activity sufficient to 
hydrolyse the accumulated substrate and to prevent further accumulation. After intravenous infusion, 
laronidase is rapidly removed from the circulation and taken up by cells into lysosomes, most likely 
via mannose-6 phosphate receptors. 
Purified laronidase is a glycoprotein with a molecular weight of approximately 83 kDa. Laronidase is 
comprised of 628 amino acids after cleavage of the N-terminus. The molecule contains 6 N-linked 
oligosaccharide modifications sites.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Three clinical trials were performed with Aldurazyme to assess its efficacy and safety. One clinical 
study focussed mainly on assessing the effect of Aldurazyme on the systemic manifestations of MPS I 
such as poor endurance, restrictive lung disease, upper airway obstruction, reduced joint range of 
motion, hepatomegaly and visual impairment. One study mainly assessed the safety and 
pharmacokinetics of Aldurazyme in patients less than 5 years old, but some efficacy measurements 
were included as well. The third study was conducted to evaluate the pharmacodynamics and safety of 
different dose regimens of Aldurazyme. 
To date there are no clinical data that demonstrate any benefit on the neurological manifestations of 
the disorder. 
The safety and efficacy of Aldurazyme was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo 
controlled, Phase 3 Study of 45 patients, ranging in age from 6 to 43 years. Although patients 
representing the full range of the disease spectrum were enrolled, the majority of the patients were of 
the intermediate phenotype, with only one patient exhibiting the severe phenotype. Patients were 
enrolled with a Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) less than 80% of the predicted value and had to be able to 
stand for 6 minutes and to walk 5 meters. Patients received either 100 U/kg of Aldurazyme or placebo 
every week for a total of 26 weeks. The primary efficacy endpoints were changes in percent of 
predicted normal FVC and absolute distance travelled in the six-minute walk test (6MWT). All 
patients subsequently enrolled in an open label extension study where they all received 100 U/kg of 
Aldurazyme every week for an additional 3.5 years (182 weeks). 
Following 26 weeks of therapy, Aldurazyme-treated patients showed improved respiratory function 
and walking ability as compared to placebo as indicated below. 
Phase 3, 26 weeks of treatment 
compared to placebo 
p value 
Confidence interval 
(95%) 
Percent Predicted 
mean 
5.6 
- 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 3, 26 weeks of treatment 
compared to placebo 
FVC 
(percentage point) 
6MWT 
(meters) 
median  3.0 
0.009 
0.9 - 8.6 
38.1 
mean 
median  38.5 
- 
0.066 
-2.0 - 79.0 
The open label extension study showed improvement and/or maintenance of these effects up to 
208 weeks in the Aldurazyme/Aldurazyme group and 182 weeks in the Placebo/Aldurazyme group as 
indicated in the table below. 
Aldurazyme/Aldurazyme  Placebo/Aldurazyme 
At 208 weeks 
At 182 weeks 
Mean change from pre-treatment baseline 
Percent predicted FVC (%)1 
6MWT (meters) 
Apnea/Hypopnea Index (AHI) 
Shoulder flexion Range Of Motion (degrees) 
CHAQ/HAQ Disability Index 2 
- 1.2 
+ 39.2 
- 4.0 
+ 13.1 
- 0.43 
- 3.3 
+ 19.4 
- 4.8 
+ 18.3 
- 0.26 
1 The decrease in percent predicted FVC is not clinically significant over this timeframe, and absolute 
lung volumes continued to increase commensurate with changes in height in growing paediatric 
patients. 
2 Both groups exceeded the minimal clinically important difference (-0.24) 
Of the 26 patients with abnormal liver volumes at pre-treatment baseline, 22 (85%) achieved a normal 
liver size by the end of the study.  There was a rapid reduction in the excretion of urinary GAG 
(µg/mg creatinine) within the first 4 weeks, which was maintained through the remainder of the study.  
Urinary GAG levels decreased by 77% and 66% in the Placebo/Aldurazyme and 
Aldurazyme/Aldurazyme groups, respectively; at the end of the study one-third of the patients (15 of 
45) had reached normal urinary GAG levels.  
To address the heterogeneity in disease manifestation across patients, using a composite endpoint that 
summed up clinically significant changes across five efficacy variables (percent predicted normal 
FVC, 6MWT distance, shoulder flexion range of motion, AHI, and visual acuity) the global response 
was an improvement in 26 patients (58%), no change in 10 patients (22%), and a deterioration in 
9 patients (20%). 
A Phase 2 open-label, 1-year study was conducted that mainly assessed the safety and 
pharmacokinetics of Aldurazyme in 20 patients less than 5 years of age at the time of enrolment 
(16 patients with the severe phenotype and 4 with the intermediate phenotype). The patients were 
scheduled to receive Aldurazyme 100 U/kg weekly infusions for a total duration of 52 weeks. Four 
patients underwent dosage increases to 200 U/kg for the last 26 weeks because of elevated urinary 
GAG levels at Week 22.  
Eighteen patients completed the study. Aldurazyme was well tolerated at both dosages. The mean 
urinary GAG level declined by 50% at Week 13 and was reduced by 61% at the end of the study.  
Upon study completion, all patients showed reductions in liver size and 50% (9/18) had normal liver 
size.  The proportion of patients with mild left ventricular hypertrophy decreased from 53% (10/19) to 
17% (3/18), and mean left ventricular mass normalized for body surface area decreased by 0.9 Z-Score 
(n=17).  Several patients showed an increase in height (n=7) and weight (n=3) for age Z-score.  The 
younger patients with the severe phenotype (< 2.5 years) and all 4 patients with the intermediate 
phenotype exhibited a normal rate of mental development, whereas the older patients with a severe 
phenotype made limited or no gains in cognition. 
A phase 4 study was conducted to evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects on urinary GAGs, liver 
volume, and 6MWT, of different Aldurazyme dose regimens. In this 26-week open label study, 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
33 MPS I patients received 1 of 4 dose regimens of Aldurazyme: 100 U/kg IV every week 
(recommended dose), 200 U/kg IV every week, 200 U/kg IV every 2 weeks; or 300 U/kg IV every 
2 weeks. No definite benefit was shown with the higher doses over the recommended dose. The 
200 U/kg IV every 2 weeks regimen may be an acceptable alternative for patients with difficulty 
receiving weekly infusions; however, there is no evidence that the long term clinical efficacy of these 
two dose regimens is equivalent. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
After intravenous administration of laronidase with an infusion time of 240 minutes and at a dose of 
100 U/kg body weight pharmacokinetic properties were measured at Weeks 1, 12 and 26. 
Parameter 
Infusion 1 
Infusion 12 
Infusion 26 
Cmax (U/ml) 
AUC∞ (h•U/ml) 
CL  (ml/min/kg) 
Vz (l/kg) 
Vss (l/kg) 
t1/2 (h) 
Mean ± SD 
0.197 ± 0.052 
0.930 ± 0.214 
1.96 ± 0.495 
0.604 ± 0.172 
0.440 ± 0.125 
3.61 ± 0.894 
Mean ± SD 
0.210 ± 0.079 
0.913 ± 0.445 
2.31 ± 1.13 
0.307 ± 0.143 
0.252 ± 0.079 
2.02 ± 1.26 
Mean± SD 
0.302 ± 0.089 
1.191 ± 0.451 
1.68 ± 0.763 
0.239 ± 0.128 
0.217 ± 0.081 
1.94 ± 1.09 
Cmax showed an increase over time. The volume of distribution decreased with continued treatment, 
possibly related to antibody formation and/or decreased liver volume.  
The pharmacokinetic profile in patients less than 5 years old was similar to that of older and less 
severely affected patients.  
Laronidase is a protein and is expected to be metabolically degraded through peptide hydrolysis. 
Consequently, impaired liver function is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of laronidase in a 
clinically significant way. Renal elimination of laronidase is considered to be a minor pathway for 
clearance (see section 4.2).  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, repeated dose toxicity and toxicity to reproduction. Genotoxic and 
carcinogenic potential are not expected. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic, heptahydrate 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vials: 
3 years 
Diluted solutions: 
From a microbiological safety point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage should not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C provided that dilution has 
taken place under controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
5 ml concentrate for solution in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (siliconised chlorobutyl rubber) and 
a seal (aluminium) with a flip-off cap (polypropylene).  
Pack sizes: 1, 10 and 25 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Each vial of Aldurazyme is intended for single use only. The concentrate for solution for infusion has 
to be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion using aseptic technique. It is 
recommended that the diluted Aldurazyme solution be administered to patients using an infusion set 
equipped with a 0.2 µm in-line filter.  
Aldurazyme 100 U/ml concentrate for solution for infusion reconstituted in 0.9% sodium chloride has 
an osmolality of 415 – 505 mOsm/kg and a pH of 5.2 – 5.9. 
Preparation of the Aldurazyme Infusion (Use Aseptic Technique) 
 
Determine the number of vials to be diluted based on the individual patient's weight. Remove 
the required vials from the refrigerator approximately 20 minutes in advance in order to allow 
them to reach room temperature (below 30˚C). 
Before dilution, visually inspect each vial for particulate matter and discoloration. The clear to 
slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow solution should be free of visible particles. Do 
not use vials exhibiting particles or discoloration.  
Determine the total volume of infusion based on the individual patient's weight, either 100 ml (if 
body weight is less or equal than 20 kg) or 250 ml (if body weight is more than 20 kg) of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion.  
 
 
  Withdraw and discard a volume of the sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion 
from the infusion bag equal to the total volume of Aldurazyme to be added. 
  Withdraw the required volume from the Aldurazyme vials and combine the withdrawn volumes.  
 
Add the combined volumes of Aldurazyme to the sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
infusion. 
  Mix the solution for infusion gently. 
 
Prior to use visually inspect the solution for particulate matter. Only clear and colourless 
solutions without visible particles should be used. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V., Paasheuvelweg 25, 1105 BP Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/03/253/001-003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 10 June 2003 
Date of latest renewal: 10 June 2008 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency  http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE    
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc, Galli Drive Facility, 46 Galli Drive, Novato, CA 94949, USA 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Genzyme Ireland Ltd, IDA Industrial Park, Old Kilmeaden Road, Waterford, Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Key messages of the additional risk minimization measures  
The Marketing Authorization Holder (MAH) shall ensure that in each Member State where laronidase 
is marketed and/or home infusion is authorized, all Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) who are expected 
to prescribe, dispense, administer laronidase have access to/are provided with the following 
educational guide to be disseminated as per local requirements/national health system: 
•  Home infusion guide for HCP 
Additionally, following educational guide will be distributed to the patients/caregivers by their 
treating/prescribing physician who has received the material from the MAH: 
•  Home infusion guide for patient/caregiver including an Infusion Diary 
Healthcare Professional educational materials: Home infusion guide for HCP 
The HCP guide contains the following key safety information to support the HCPs in the management 
of patients receiving laronidase in the home setting.  
Information for HCPs prescribing laronidase: 
•  Criteria to determine eligibility for home infusion 
•  Requirement and organization of the home infusion including equipment, pre-treatment and 
emergency treatments 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information for HCPs administering laronidase: 
•  Medical evaluation of the patient prior to administration of the infusion at home 
•  Requirements and organization of the home infusion including equipment, pre-treatment and 
emergency treatments 
•  Details on the preparation and administration of laronidase including all the steps of 
preparation, reconstitution, dilution and administration 
• 
Information on signs and symptoms related to infusion associated reactions and recommended 
actions for the management of the adverse drug reactions (ADRs) when symptoms occur 
Patient educational material: Home infusion guide for patient/caregiver including an Infusion 
Diary 
The patient/caregiver guide contains the following key safety information:  
• 
Information on the risk of hypersensitivity reactions including the signs and symptoms of 
hypersensitivity and the recommended actions when symptoms occur  
•  An Infusion Diary that can be used to record the infusions and document any product-
related Infusion-Associated Reactions (IARs), including allergic-type hypersensitivity 
reactions before, during or after the infusion. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON (1 VIAL, 10 VIALS,  25 VIALS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Aldurazyme 100 U/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
laronidase 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 ml contains 100 U of laronidase. 
Each vial of 5 ml contains 500 U of laronidase. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: 
Sodium chloride,  
Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate,  
Sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate,  
Polysorbate 80,  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial of concentrate for solution for infusion. 
10 vials of concentrate for solution for infusion.  
25 vials of concentrate for solution for infusion.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For single use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused solution should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Sanofi B.V.  
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/03/253/001 1 Vial 
EU/1/03/253/002 10 Vials 
EU/1/03/253/003 25 Vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
 2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN:  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Aldurazyme 100 U/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
laronidase 
Intravenous use  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 ml 
6.  OTHER 
Store at 2°C – 8°C. 
Sanofi B.V. - NL 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Aldurazyme 100 U/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
Laronidase 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or your pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet:  
1.  What Aldurazyme is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Aldurazyme 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Aldurazyme is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Aldurazyme 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Aldurazyme is and what is it used for 
Aldurazyme is used to treat patients with MPS I disease (Mucopolysaccharidosis I). It is given to treat 
the non-neurological manifestations of the disease. 
People with MPS I disease have either a low level or no level of an enzyme called α-L-iduronidase, 
which breaks down specific substances (glycosaminoglycans) in the body. As a result, these 
substances do not get broken down and processed by the body as they should. They accumulate in 
many tissues in the body, which causes the symptoms of MPS I. 
Aldurazyme is an artificial enzyme called laronidase. This can replace the natural enzyme which is 
lacking in MPS I disease. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Aldurazyme 
You should not be given Aldurazyme 
If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to laronidase or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6).  
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using Aldurazyme.  
Contact your doctor immediately if treatment with Aldurazyme causes: 
•     Allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis (a severe allergy reaction) – see under section 4 
“Possible side effects”. Some of these reactions may be life-threatening. Symptoms may 
include respiratory failure/distress (inability of lungs to work properly), stridor (high-pitched 
breathing sound) and other disorders due to obstruction of airways, rapid breathing, excessive 
contraction of the airway muscles causing breathing difficulty (bronchospasm), lack of oxygen 
in body tissues (hypoxia), low blood pressure, slow heart rate, or itchy rash (urticaria).  
•     Infusion-associated reactions, i.e. any side effect occurring during the infusion or until the end 
of the infusion day- see under section 4 “Possible Side Effects” below for symptoms.  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If these reactions occur, the Aldurazyme infusion should be stopped immediately and appropriate 
treatment will be started by your doctor.  
These reactions may be particularly severe if you have a pre-existing MPS I-related upper airway 
obstruction. 
You may be given additional medications to help prevent allergic-type reactions, such as 
antihistamines, medicine to reduce fever (e.g. paracetamol) and/or corticosteroids. 
Your doctor will also decide if you can continue receiving Aldurazyme. 
Other medicines and Aldurazyme 
Inform your doctor if you are using medicines containing chloroquine or procaine, due to a possible 
risk of decreasing the action of Aldurazyme. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, including 
medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
There is not enough experience of the use of Aldurazyme in pregnant women. You should not be 
given Aldurazyme during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
It is not known whether Aldurazyme appears in breast milk. It is recommended to stop breast-feeding 
during treatment with Aldurazyme. 
No information is available on the effects of Aldurazyme on fertility. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
The effects on the ability to drive and to use machines have not been studied. 
Aldurazyme contains sodium 
This medicine contains 30 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) per vial. This is 
equivalent to 1.5% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How Aldurazyme is given 
Instruction for use - dilution and administration 
The concentrate for solution for infusion has to be diluted before administration and is for intravenous 
use (see information for health care professionals). 
Administration of Aldurazyme should be carried out in an appropriate clinical setting where 
resuscitation equipment to manage medical emergencies would be readily available. 
Home infusion 
Your doctor may consider that you can have home infusion of Aldurazyme if it is safe and convenient 
to do so. If you get a side effect during an infusion of Aldurazyme, your infusion staff member may 
stop the infusion and start appropriate medical treatment. 
Dosage 
The recommended dosage regimen of Aldurazyme is 100 U/kg body weight given once every week as 
an intravenous infusion. The initial infusion rate of 2 U/kg/h may be gradually increased every fifteen 
minutes, if tolerated, to a maximum of 43 U/kg/h. The total volume of the administration should be 
delivered in approximately 3-4 hours.  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
If you miss an infusion of Aldurazyme  
If you have missed an Aldurazyme infusion, please contact your doctor.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are given more Aldurazyme than needed 
If the dose of Aldurazyme given is too high or the infusion is too fast, adverse drug reactions may 
occur. Receiving an excessively fast infusion of Aldurazyme may cause nausea, abdominal pain, 
headache, dizziness and difficulty breathing (dyspnoea). In such situations, the infusion should be 
stopped or the infusion rate slowed down immediately. Your doctor will decide if further intervention 
is required. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects were mainly seen while patients were being given the medicine or shortly after (infusion-
associated reactions). If you experience any reaction like this, you should contact your doctor 
immediately. The number of these reactions decreased the longer that patients were on Aldurazyme. 
The majority of these reactions were mild or moderate in intensity. However, severe systemic allergic 
reaction (anaphylactic reaction) has been observed in patients during or up to 3 hours after 
Aldurazyme infusions. Some of the symptoms of such a severe allergic reaction were life-threatening 
and included extreme difficulty breathing, swelling of the throat, low blood pressure, and low oxygen 
level in the body. A few patients who had a prior history of severe MPS I related upper airway and 
pulmonary involvement, experienced severe reactions including bronchospasm (airway constriction), 
respiratory arrest, and swelling of the face. The frequency of bronchospasm and respiratory arrest is 
unknown. The frequency of severe allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction) and swelling of the face is 
considered common and may affect up to 1 in 10 people. 
Very common symptoms (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) which were not serious include  
•  headache,  
•  nausea,  
•  abdominal pain,  
•  rash,  
•  joint disease,  
•  joint pain,  
•  back pain,  
•  pain in arms or legs,  
•  flushing, 
•  fever, chills,  
•  increased heart rate,  
•  increased blood pressure,  
• reaction at the infusion site such as swelling, redness, build-up of fluid, discomfort, itchy rash, 
pale colour of the skin, discoloured skin, or sensation of being warm. 
Other side effects include the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increased body temperature 
tingling 
dizziness 
cough 
difficulty in breathing  
vomiting 
diarrhoea 
rapid swelling under the skin in areas such as the face, throat, arms and legs which can be life-
threatening if throat swelling blocks the airway 
hives 
• 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
itching 
hair loss 
cold sweat, heavy sweating 
muscle pain 
paleness 
cold hands or feet  
feeling hot, feeling cold  
fatigue 
influenza like illness 
pain at injection site 
restlessness 
allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) 
abnormally slower heart rate 
increased or abnormally high blood pressure 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
•  voice box swelling  
•  bluish color of the skin (due to lower levels of oxygen in the blood) 
• 
• 
• 
fast breathing 
redness of the skin 
leakage of the medicine into the surrounding tissue at the site of injection, where it can cause 
damage 
inability of the lungs to work properly (respiratory failure) 
throat swelling 
• 
• 
•  high-pitched breathing sound 
•  obstruction of airways causing difficulty in breathing 
• 
• 
• 
•  drug specific antibody, a blood protein produced in response to medicine 
• 
lip swelling 
tongue swelling 
swelling especially of the ankles and feet due to fluid retention 
antibody that neutralizes the effect of medicine 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Aldurazyme 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
You should not be given this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after the letters 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vials: 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Aldurazyme contains 
- 
The active substance is laronidase. One ml of the solution in the vial contains 100 U of 
laronidase. Each vial of 5 ml contains 500 U of laronidase. 
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic heptahydrate, polysorbate 80, water for injections. 
- 
What Aldurazyme looks like and contents of the pack 
Aldurazyme is supplied as a concentrate for solution for infusion. It is a solution that is clear to 
slightly opalescent, and colourless to pale yellow. 
Pack size: 1, 10 and 25 vials per carton. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sanofi B.V., Paasheuvelweg 25, 1105 BP Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
Manufacturer 
Genzyme Ireland Ltd., IDA Industrial Park, Old Kilmeaden Road, Waterford, Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 04 36 996 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 7013 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ 
Tel. +372 640 10 30 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 80 185 – 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o.  
Tel: +48 22 280 00 00 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 1600 
Portugal 
Sanofi – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.  
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o  
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel.:  +421 2 208 33 600 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 201 200 300 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800536389 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA 
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel. +370 5 236 91 40 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Each vial of Aldurazyme is intended for single use only. The concentrate for solution for infusion has 
to be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion using aseptic technique. It is 
recommended that the diluted Aldurazyme solution be administered to patients using an infusion set 
equipped with an 0.2 µm in-line filter.  
From a microbiological safety point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage should not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C provided that dilution has 
taken place under controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
Aldurazyme should not be mixed with other medicinal products in the same infusion.  
Preparation of the Aldurazyme Infusion (Use Aseptic Technique) 
 
Determine the number of vials to be diluted based on the individual patient's weight. Remove 
the required vials from the refrigerator approximately 20 minutes in advance in order to allow 
them to reach room temperature (below 30˚C). 
Before dilution, visually inspect each vial for particulate matter and discoloration. The clear to 
slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow solution should be free of visible particles. Do 
not use vials exhibiting particles or discoloration.  
Determine the total volume of infusion based on the individual patient's weight, either 100 ml 
(if bodyweight is less or equal than 20 kg) or 250 ml (if bodyweight is more than 20 kg) of 0.9% 
sodium chloride intravenous solution.  
 
 
  Withdraw and discard a volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion from 
the infusion bag equal to the total volume of Aldurazyme to be added. 
  Withdraw the required volume from the Aldurazyme vials and combine the withdrawn volumes. 
 
Add the combined volumes of Aldurazyme to the sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
infusion. 
Mix the solution for infusion gently. 
Prior to use visually inspect the solution for particulate matter. Only clear and colourless 
solutions without visible particles should be used. 
 
 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
