This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Aldurazyme.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Aldurazyme  contains  a  new  active  substance,  laronidase  (recombinant  human  α-L-iduronidase  or 
rhIDU). Laronidase is isolated from cell culture supernatant following growth of a Chinese Hamster 
Ovary (CHO) cell line transfected with a recombinant expression vector containing the cDNA coding 
region for human α-L-iduronidase.  Purified laronidase is a glycoprotein with a molecular weight of 
approximately  83  kD.    Laronidase  consists  of  628  amino  acids  after  cleavage  of  the  N-terminus 
containing 6 potential N-linked oligosaccharide modification sites, all of which are used. 
Aldurazyme is intended for the treatment of Mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I), a Lysosomal Storage 
Disorder  (LSD).  MPS  I  is  an  inherited  metabolic  disease  characterised  by  the  inability  to  process 
certain  glycosaminoglycans,  which  accumulate  in  lysosomes  in  cells  throughout  the  body.    As  the 
amount of stored material in the lysosomes increases over time, normal cellular functioning becomes 
increasingly  impaired,  leading  to  the  emergence  of  clinical  symptoms.  In  MPS  I  there  is  an  α-L-
iduronidase  (IDU)  deficiency  in  leukocytes.  Deficiency  of  IDU  results  in  the  accumulation  of 
glycosaminoglycans  (GAG)  in  a  variety  of  tissues  and  accumulation  depends  on  the  location  of  the 
affected substrates and their rate of turnover. The storage process can affect appearance, development 
and the function of various organs of the body. 
The prevalence in the European Union is estimated to approximately 0.025 in 10,000 persons. 
Patients with MPS I are usually classified into three  clinical syndromes – Hurler, Hurler-Scheie and 
Scheie.  However, these three phenotypes are arbitrary classifications as they cannot be distinguished 
by  routine  diagnostic  procedures.  All  patients  lack  α-L-iduronidase  activity  and  excrete  excessive 
amounts of heparan sulphate and dermatan sulphate in urine.  Patients have therefore been classified 
into  a  phenotype  based  on  their  symptoms  and  the  severity  of  their  symptoms.  There  is,  however, 
considerable  heterogeneity  in the  severity and symptomatology within  each  clinical phenotype, with 
substantial  overlap  of  the  symptomatology  of  the  three  syndromes.  In  MPS  I  patients  the  signs  and 
symptoms  are  ubiquitous  and  most  patients  die  between  late  childhood  and  early  adulthood  from 
pulmonary or cardiac causes. 
The  treatment  options  for  the  majority  of  MPS  I  patients  are  limited  to  symptomatic  care.  Bone 
marrow  transplantation  (BMT)  has  been  applied  to  patients  with  the  most  severe  phenotype  (Hurler 
type,  which  encompasses  primary  CNS  involvement).  In  those  patients  with  adequate  engraftment, 
there  are  improvements  in  liver  and  spleen  storage,  urinary  GAG  excretion  and  various  clinical 
problems,  with  the  exception  of  bone  disease,  which  remains  progressive.  It  is  recognised  that  the 
evolution  after  BMT  is  especially  favourable  when  BMT  occurred  in  a  child  <2  year-old  and  with 
IQ>80  (early  BMT  prior  to  cognitive  decline).  BMT  has  been  shown  to  slow  or  prevent  the  mental 
degeneration  of  Hurler  patients.  Late  BMT  is  not  effective  in  preventing  the  decline  in  cognitive 
functioning, presumably because changes that precede and cause the decline have already occurred. In 
Hurler-Scheie and Scheie MPS I disease, patients rarely undergo BMT because the risk/benefit ratio of 
BMT is unfavourable. 
Aldurazyme  is  indicated  for  long-term  enzyme  replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  a  confirmed 
diagnosis  MPS  I  to  treat  the  non-neurological  manifestations  of  the  disease  (see  sections  5.1  of  the 
SPC).  Enzyme replacement therapy is intended to restore a level of enzymatic activity sufficient to 
hydrolyse the accumulated glycosaminoglycans and prevent further accumulation.   
The proposed dosage regimen of Aldurazyme is 100 Units/kg body weight administered once a week 
as an intravenous infusion.   
1/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The finished product is presented as a sterile concentrate for solution for infusion. Each vial contains 
5.3  ml  Laronidase  (Recombinant  human  α-L-iduronidase,  rhIDU)  100  U/ml  (0.58  mg/ml).  The 
concentrate  is  diluted  with  0.9%  sodium  chloride  prior  to  intravenous  administration.  A  0.3  ml 
overage permits the withdrawal of 5.0 ml (500 U) of rhIDU. Each vial is intended for single use. 
The container is a vial made of Type I borosilicate glass and is sulphur-treated to strengthen glass and 
reduce  potential  protein  adsorption.  Chlorobutyl  rubber  stopper  selected  for  as  suitable  for  a 
formulation with a high phosphate content. Stoppers are siliconised (Dimethicon) prior to sterilisation. 
Active substance 
Characterisation 
Recombinant human α-L-iduronidase (rhIDU) is a monomer of 628 amino acid residues. It contains 
six asparagine-linked glycosylation sites, two of which carry the mannose-6-phosphate oligomannose7 
oligosaccharide, which binds to target cell surface receptor. It also contains 6 cysteine residues, two of 
which  forming  a  single  disulphide  bond.  The  molecular  mass  derived  from  the  translated  cDNA 
sequence is 70.1 kDa. Based on SDS-PAGE the apparent molecular mass is 83 kDa, the additional 13 
kDa is attributed to post-translational modification. Tryptic peptide mapping was used to identify the 
primary  structure  of  rhIDU  and  is  used  as  an  identity  test  for  lot  release.  Overall  the  primary  and 
glycosylation structures have been sufficiently elucidated.  
Three  formulated  bulk  active  substance  process  qualification  lots  and  the  Reference  Standard  were 
examined  using  a  battery  of  standard  physico-chemical  and  biochemical  analytical  methods.  These 
methods are also used either for lot release or for additional characterisation. 
Results provided evidence that the recombinant protein (active substance) from all samples is identical 
and is the same as predicted from the rhIDU cDNA and has the expected molecular mass. Adequately 
sensitive test methods are used to demonstrate and control the purity of laronidase in the bulk active 
substance and in the finished product. 
Isoelectric focusing revealed multiple isoforms, which were due to glycosylation microheterogeneity 
resulting from post translational modifications of the protein. The occurrence of this heterogeneity is 
not a cause for concern and the Company has committed to provide the results from an ongoing study 
to demonstrate the consistency in the glycosylation site occupancy. 
Development genetics and cell bank system 
The  production  process  of  laronidase  uses  a  transformed  Chinese  hamster  ovary  host  cell  line 
containing an expression plasmid from which rhIDU is expressed. One subclone of this cell line was 
selected as having the highest level of secreted rhIDU and was used to establish the Master Cell Bank 
(MCB)  from  which  subsequent  Working  Cell  Banks  (WCB)  were  derived.  Information  on  the 
methods and the raw materials used to establish the cell banks was provided.  
The adequate genetic stability of the cell banks was demonstrated by comparing cells from the MCB 
with cells at the end of a representative production. 
The  MCB,  current  WCB,  and  EPC  (End  of  production  cells)  were  evaluated  for  cell  line  identity, 
sterility  and  adventitious  agent  contamination,  and  results  indicate  that  the  host  cell  bank  system  is 
suitable for the manufacture of a medicinal product.  
The company committed to repeat the Southern Blot to determine the copy number and structure of 
the  MCB,  EPC  and  non-rDNA  parent  line  in  parallel.  The  company  will  also  investigate  a  reliable 
viable count method to measure specific productivity.  
Production process 
The  production  process  of  the  formulated  bulk  active  substance  (rhIDU)  takes  place  at  BioMarin 
Pharmaceutical  Inc,  Novato,  CA.  The  facility  contains  clean  room  suites  where  cell  culture, 
purification, and formulation operations are performed. The fermentation process, from the cell culture 
inoculum expansion to the final cell harvest, has been adequately described in the application. 
2/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purification  of  rhIDU  from  pH  adjusted  harvest  cell  culture  fluid  (HCCF)  involves  six  major  steps: 
including  3 column chromatography steps,  utilising  several  modes  of  separation, a viral inactivation 
step, DNA removal, and Viral filtration. 
Process validation, routine tests and specifications of the active substance 
Three  consecutive  process  qualification  (PQ)  lots  of  rhIDU  formulated  bulk  active  substance  were 
manufactured  at  the  BioMarin  facility.  The  results  of  the  routine  in-process  testing  through  cell 
culture,  purification  and  formulation,  together  with  the  results  of  EPC  validation  and  bioreactor 
operating parameters, demonstrate that the proposed commercial process consistently produces rhIDU 
that meets the release specifications. The company will evaluate the limit for the acceptable criteria for 
oligosaccharide profiling on an annual basis. 
Additional  studies  were  performed  using  validated  scaled-down  versions  of  the  commercial  process 
for validation of the purification process. The critical parameters maintained were retention times and 
matrix-solution  interactions.  This  was  achieved  by  replicating  the  commercial-scale  buffers,  linear 
flow rates and column heights but adjusting the column diameter.  
The  validation of  the  column  use life  was  performed for each of the three chromatography columns 
used for the purification of rhIDU. The maximum number of cycles was established 
Cleaning of the three chromatography column resins was performed and showed that the procedures 
were  effective  in  removing  potential  residues,  including  DNA,  protein  and  other  process-related 
impurities. 
Other  validation  studies  covered  step  yields  in  the  purification  process,  cleaning  ultrafiltration  / 
diafiltration  system  and  microbial  control  during  the  process  steps.  The  results  indicate  that  the 
manufacturing processes are well controlled and yield a consistent product. 
Impurities 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  validated  for  the  removal  of  the  relevant  process 
related  impurities:  In  addition  the  process  was  validated  for  the  removal  of  various  adventitious 
viruses.  
Batch Analysis 
Batch analyses from twelve lots of formulated bulk active substance have demonstrated that rhIDU is 
consistently manufactured to meet the release specifications. 
Stability of active substance 
Based  on  both  small-scale  stability  studies  and  intermediates  taken  from  production-scale  lots  the 
holding times and storage conditions were proposed for various process intermediates. The results of 
real time stability studies support the proposed holding time at the conditions specified. 
Formulated Bulk Active Substance 
Real time and accelerated stability data for the three qualification lots packed in ethylene vinyl acetate 
bags  and  stored  at  2-8°C  and  25°C  was  provided.  The  results  to  date  support  the  proposed  storage 
period.  
Conclusion on the active substance 
Based on the physico-chemical and biological characterisation data provided, it can be concluded that 
sensitive and quantitative tests have been developed and validated for identity, purity, and potency of 
the active substance. 
Other ingredients 
The following pharmacopoeial grade materials or equivalent are used in the final formulation: sodium 
chloride,  sodium  phosphate  monobasic,  monohydrate,  sodium  phosphate  dibasic,  heptahydrate, 
polysorbate 80, and water for injections. 
Product development and finished product 
The  phosphate  buffer  was  selected  to  maintain  enzyme  activity.  Polysorbate  80,  a  hydrophilic 
nonionic surfactant, was added to minimise precipitate formation. Polysorbate is known to be effective 
3/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
against  agitation-induced  aggregation  of  proteins.  The  original  Phase  1/2  clinical  study  formulation 
did not include polysorbate 80. The proposed commercial formulation was used from August 2000 in 
clinical studies BIO7500-001 and ALID-003-99. During development the potency was re-defined and 
the protein content adjusted. The rhIDU enzyme activity unitage was redefined based on two factors: 
(1)  changes  in  the  activity  assay  procedure  to  improve  assay  performance  and  (2)  changes  in  the 
definition  of  an  activity  unit  to  be  consistent  with  International  Unit  nomenclature.  The  change  was 
not  a  change  in  either  the  actual  dose  or  the  formulation  of  the  product,  merely  a  change  in  assay 
conditions and unit definition. 
Laronidase  cannot  withstand  terminal  sterilisation  so  the  product  is  aseptically  manufactured  and 
sterilised by filtration. Container closure integrity has been validated through bacteriological challenge 
and dye leak testing. 
Method of preparation 
The manufacturing process of the finished product has been described in sufficient detail and consists 
of  final  sterile  filtration,  filling  into  vials,  packaging  and  labelling.  Environmental  monitoring  is 
performed  during  the  manufacturing  process.  Stability  data  for  formulated  bulk  active  substance 
indicate the total allowable time from removal from the refrigerated holding area (2-8°C) to initiate the 
filtration,  filling  and  packaging  is  24  hours.  Several  different  products  are  processed  at  both  sites: 
procedures and the appropriate facility designs are in place to prevent cross contamination. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  validated.  Data  for  the  validation  of  the  sterile 
filtration, and aseptic filling and capping have been provided and are adequate. The data showed that 
the  finished  product  consistently  met  the  proposed  specifications  and  demonstrated  that  the 
manufacturing process is consistently reproducible. 
Specifications of the finished product 
The  proposed  finished  product  specifications,  based  on  analysis  of  thirteen  lots,  are  acceptable. 
Control  tests  on  the  finished  product  have  been  validated  and  will  sufficiently  guarantee  the 
consistency of the manufacturing process of the finished product.  
Stability of the finished product 
Stability  studies  have  been  initiated  on  nine  lots  of  finished  product.  Six  lots  were  packaged  in  the 
proposed  commercial  container/closure  system.  Three  lots  used  a  different  closure  system 
(bromobutyl lyophilizer stoppers). The vials were stored either upright or inverted at 2–8°C, 25°C or 
37°C  for  the  duration  of  the  study.  The  parameters  studied  are  based  on  characterisation  and  forced 
degradation  studies  and  analytical  validation  results.  The  study  protocol  is  consistent  with  ICH 
recommendations.  The  real  time  data  and  the  data  from  the  accelerated  storage  studies  support  the 
shelf life as indicated in the SPC.  
For  administration  to  patients,  Aldurazyme  is  diluted  with  0.9%  sodium  chloride  solution  in  an 
infusion bag. Enzyme activity was followed to examine the stability of the infusion preparation when 
stored at room temperature (15–25°C) for up to 24 hours, and refrigerated (2–8°C) for up to 48 hours. 
These  stability  studies  were  performed  to  bracket  the  possible  clinical  range  of  dilutions  of 
Aldurazyme. The results support the proposed in-use storage for diluted Aldurazyme for 24 hours at 2-
8  °C  followed  by  up  to  12  hours  at  15-25  °C.  In  view  of  the  absence  of  preservative  in  the 
reconstituted and diluted solutions, the SPC recommends an immediate use of the product; if not used 
immediately, the dilution should have taken place under controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
Production Process History 
The application documented the history of lots manufactured during development using the different 
production processes and the purpose of each lot. The Phase 1/2 clinical studies and preclinical studies 
in  MPS  I  dogs  were  performed  with  product  manufactured  by  the  earlier  production  processes.  The 
Phase 3 clinical study and the pre-clinical toxicology studies (acute and repeat dose) were performed 
with product manufactured by the commercial production process at the proposed manufacturing site. 
The  application  documented  the  testing  performed  on  rhIDU  manufactured  for  clinical  use  by  the 
different  processes  used  during  development.  Comparative  data  for  the  pilot  process  and  the 
commercial process are also reported. 
4/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data from purity tests demonstrate that rhIDU manufactured by the commercial process is higher in 
purity when compared to rhIDU manufactured by the previous processes. Data from physico-chemical 
and  biochemical  characterisation  tests  demonstrate  comparability  between  rhIDU  manufactured  by 
these  processes.  This  provides  confidence  that  all  pre-clinical  and  clinical  studies  performed  with 
rhIDU are relevant to assessing the license application. However, it remains significant that the most 
important  studies  performed  to  confirm  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  rhIDU,  the  acute  and  repeat  dose 
toxicology studies and the Phase 3 clinical study, were completed with material manufactured by the 
commercial production process. 
Viral safety 
Process validation 
Cell banks 
The Master Cell Bank, Working Cell Bank and End of Production Cell material have been examined 
by standard procedures and found to be free of detectable viral contamination. Reverse Transcriptase 
(RT)  activity  has  been  detected  in  the  EPC;  this  RT  activity  is  associated  with  C-type  retroviral 
particles,  which  are  often  present  in  CHO  cell  lines.  The  company  committed  to  test  one  lot  of  the 
bulk harvest to confirm that these particles are not infectious using a more sensitive test such as the 
Mus Dunni test.  
Viral validation 
The steps in the manufacture of rhIDU were evaluated for their capacity to reduce adventitious viral 
contamination.  Small  scale  studies  based  on  commercial-scale  manufacturing  processes  were 
performed using materials from actual full-scale production. Chromatographic studies used both new 
and  used  column  resins.  Four  model  viruses  were  used:  xenotropic  leukaemia  virus  (XmuLV)  as  a 
model  murine  retrovirus,  murine  minute  virus  (MMV),  pseudorabies  virus  (PRV),  and  Reo  virus  3 
(Reo-3).  
The  results  of  these  viral  clearance  studies  show  that  the  combination  of  the  columns  steps,  viral 
inactivation step and the viral filtration provides a potential for virus removal.  
In  common  with  other  recombinant  derived  products  the  manufacturing  process  has  only  a  limited 
capacity to remove and inactivate small (<25 nm) non-enveloped, acid resistant viruses. The Company 
has  committed  to  investigate  additional  steps  to  clear  such  viruses.  The  company  will  also  repeat  a 
viral  clearance  study  of  those  steps  contributing  to  the  viral  removal  and  inactivation.  A  small  non-
enveloped virus will be included as one of the model viruses. 
Lot testing 
Each  production  lot  is  tested  by  an  in  vitro  assay  for  the  presence  of  viral  contaminants.  The  last 
sample removed prior to the termination of cell culture harvest stage must be negative.  
TSE compliance 
Bovine foetal serum (FBS) and porcine trypsin were used in the establishment of the both the MCB 
and  the  WCB.  Both  animal  derived  reagents  are  also  used  during  the  cell  culture  phase  of  the 
manufacturing process. 
The FBS used for the MCB was collected from Mexican cattle and tested for bovine virus diarrhoea, 
parainfluenza  virus  3  and  infectious  bovine  rhinotracheitis.  Although  the  geographical  BSE  risk 
(GBR)  of  Mexico  is  pending  and  although  only  limited  data  on  the  sourcing  and  preparation  of  the 
FBS could be gathered from the supplier, the overall benefit/risk balance is favourable with respect to 
FBS used in the preparation of the MCB. The FBS used for the WCB and current production has an 
EDQM Certificate of Suitability. The FBS is irradiated to minimise viral contamination. This material 
is considered TSE compliant. 
Porcine trypsin is not a TSE risk material.  
In  the  past  animal  derived  glycerin  (bovine  and  porcine)  was  used  as  a  buffer  ingredient,  since 
2000/01  a  synthetic  glycerin  has  been  used.  The  animal  glycerin  was  derived  from  rendered  tallow, 
5/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which  had  been  obtained  from  North  American  animals  and  subjected  to  rigorous  processing 
(∼250°C/∼700 psi). TSE risk is minimal. 
The excipient polysorbate 80 is of plant origin and the cytopore micro-carriers are manufactured from 
plant derived materials. 
Conclusion 
The starting materials and the product are screened for viral contamination and overall the viral safety 
of the product has been adequately demonstrated. 
Discussion on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
A comprehensive  pharmaceutical dossier supported this  application. In  general,  the  different aspects 
of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation  comply  with  existing  guidelines.  The 
information provided in the application demonstrated consistent production of laronidase, achieving a 
well-defined quality for the active substance and the finished product. The fermentation, down-stream 
processes,  and  purification  of  the  active  substance  are  adequately  controlled.  The  manufacturing 
process of the finished product has been described in sufficient detail and  product specifications are 
adequate. In general, methods to control the quality of the product are adequate. 
Stability data support a shelf life for the finished product as indicated in the SPC. 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Aldurazyme is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with 
the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform 
clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch-to-batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications. The starting materials and the product are screened 
for viral contamination. There are no outstanding TSE issues. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
GLP 
The pharmacodynamic studies conducted during early development in university laboratories were not 
conducted in compliance with GLP but did conform to current good scientific practices. The acute and 
repeat dose toxicology studies and the safety pharmacology study were conducted in compliance with 
GLP Regulations. Two exploratory toxicity studies, one examining the hemodynamic effects of rhIDU 
in dogs, and the other studying the effects of diluent on toxicity and immunogenicity in dogs were not 
conducted  in  compliance  with  GLP  but  were  conducted  in  compliance  with  the  facility  standard 
operating  procedures  and  conformed  to  good  scientific  practices.  Overall,  compliance  with  GLP  is 
therefore satisfactory. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
The  mechanism  of  action  of  laronidase  (recombinant  human  alfa-L-iduronidase  or  rhIDU)  is  to 
substitute  the  naturally  occurring  enzyme,  α-L-iduronidase,  which  is  deficient  or  absent  in  MPS  I 
patients and to hydrolyse the accumulated glycosaminoglycans (GAG) in cells and tissues that cause 
the symptoms of the disease. 
In vitro studies have demonstrated that rhIDU is efficiently endocytosed into lysosomes of fibroblasts 
from  severely  affected  MPS  I  patients  via  a  mannose-6-phosphate  dependent  receptor.  After  uptake 
into lysosomes, rhIDU has been shown to hydrolyse GAG substrates thereby reducing GAG storage in 
fibroblasts even at very low (pM) concentrations.   Uptake was inhibited by mannose-6-phosphate as 
the result of competitive receptor binding. The half-life of rhIDU in MPS I fibroblasts was estimated 
to  be  approximately  five  days.  These  results  demonstrate  that,  once  intracellular,  the  enzyme  is 
relatively stable and pharmacologically active. 
6/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vivo studies  
The  animal  models  chosen  for  pharmacodynamic  efficacy  studies  included  the  MPS  I  dog  and  the 
MPS I cat. These animals provide a biochemical and clinical model for disease with lack of detectable 
α-L-iduronidase activity in all tissues, an abnormal GAG storage in all tissues and clinical symptoms 
comparable with these of the human disease. 
The MPS I dog has many characteristics of the human disease and is genetically similar to the more 
severe  forms  of  MPS  I  in  humans.    However,  the  dogs  differ  from  human  patients  in  that  the  bone 
disease is not as severe as in humans and is usually characterised by osteopenia only with very mild 
changes suggestive of dysostosis  multiplex. Despite the large amount of GAG storage, the liver and 
spleen  are  not as enlarged as in humans. Further,  mental and behavioural degeneration has not  been 
observed in the dogs.  
The MPS I cat shows a clinical and pathologic syndrome comparable to human MPS I.  
Six  studies  were  conducted  in  the  MPS  I  dog  and  one  in  the  MPS  I  cat,  to  evaluate  the  effects  of 
administration  of  3  different  intravenous  doses  of  rhIDU  (0.1  mg/kg  1-3  times  per  week,  0.5 
mg/kg/week and 2.0 mg/kg/week (bolus or continous infusion)), short term (5-12 days) to long term 
duration  (up  to  74  weeks),  on  disease  symptoms,  tissue  α-L-iduronidase  activity  (liver,  spleen,  lung 
and kidney), tissue glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content and urinary GAG excretion. 
Overall, the results from the studies in MPS I dogs indicated that a dose of 0.5 mg/kg/week of rhIDU, 
similar to the doses used clinically, was necessary to obtain measurable levels of enzyme activity in all 
tissues examined. The tissue levels in liver, spleen and lung were greater than those of normal animals 
and  approaching  such  levels  for  most  other  tissues  except  cornea,  brain  and  cartilage.  However,  no 
histopathological  evidence  of  improvement  was  found  in  the  CNS  in  any  study.  The  presence  of 
rhIDU in brain homogenates was attributed to uptake by brain capillary endothelial cells since there 
were no changes in GAG storage in neurons or perithelial cells. 
The  elevated  enzyme  levels  led  to  significant  decreases  in  GAG  levels  and  also  produced  a  rapid 
decline in urinary GAG excretion. Use of higher doses led to higher tissue α-L-iduronidase activities, 
but did not result in greater decreases in tissue GAG levels. After treatment at 0.1 mg/kg/week for 13 
months  or  0.5  mg/kg/week  for  74  weeks,  there  was  evidence  of  clinical  improvement  of  the  MPS  I 
symptoms. Further, bolus infusion was shown to be more effective than continuous infusion. 
Treatment was well tolerated with no adverse clinical, clinical pathology or histopathological findings. 
However,  anaphylactoid  reactions  occurred  in  dogs  and  cats  and  were  shown  to  be  due  to  IgG-
mediated  activation  of  complement.  These  reactions  were  alleviated  by  pre-treating  the  dogs  with 
antihistamine drugs, slowing the rate of infusion and adding serum albumin to the infusate. In dogs, 
the peak levels and the times at which they occurred differed greatly between the animals and did not 
appear to be dose-related. In some dogs, the levels declined despite continued treatment. Five of 6 cats 
produced  IgG  antibodies  to  rhIDU  and  the  levels  were  dose-related.  Mild  complement  activation 
occurred in three cats. The immune response was greater in cats receiving the higher dose of rhIDU. 
The anaphylactoid reactions were thought to be caused by immunoreactive aggregates formed as the 
result of the presence of impurities and the absence of the detergent polysorbate 80 in the preparation. 
However,  the  anaphylactoid  reactions  observed  in  these  early  preclinical  studies  were  not  observed 
with  the  current  clinical  drug  product  in  either  monkeys  or  dogs,  even  without  pre-treatment  with 
antihistamine  drugs  or  in  the  absence  of  serum  albumin  in  the  infusate.  The  risk  of  hypersensitivity 
reactions in patients being treated with rhIDU is discussed in the clinical section. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
rhIDU is a recombinant version of a naturally occurring human enzyme. Laronidase is a protein and is 
expected  to  be  metabolically  degraded  through  peptide  hydrolysis.  No  metabolic  interactions  are 
expected.  Therefore,  no  formal  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted.  The  SPC  states  that 
Aldurazyme  should  not  be  administered  simultaneously  with  chloroquine  or  procaine  due  to  a 
potential  risk  of  interference  with  the  intracellular  uptake  of  laronidase.  Any  evidence  of  product 
interactions will be reported post-authorisation. 
7/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Cardiovascular and respiratory effects were examined in two studies in beagle dogs. It was concluded 
that, during intravenous infusion of rhIDU over 4 hours at doses up to 4.1 mg/kg and 24-hour follow-
up  post-infusion,  there  were  no  effects  on  peripheral  circulation  in  beagle  dogs.  Further,  during 
intravenous infusion  of doses  up to  11.6  mg/kg  of rhIDU  over  4 hours  and  24-hour follow-up  post-
infusion,  heart 
rate  and 
electrocardiographic examinations were within normal ranges in all of the dogs. 
rate,  mean  arterial  pressure, 
temperature, 
respiratory 
rectal 
No  additional  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  with  rhIDU,  the  argument  being  that 
rhIDU  is  a  protein  normally  produced  by  humans  and  is  unlikely  to  cross  the  blood  brain  barrier. 
Neurological  toxicity  is  therefore  not  expected.  However,  to  patients  with  MPS  I  active  rhIDU  is  a 
foreign protein, possibly immunogenic, and the administration route causes abnormal exposure of the 
enzyme to various tissues. Overall the relative lack of safety pharmacology studies is acceptable in the 
light of the results of the repeat dose toxicity tests and the preclinical pharmacodynamic studies.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in MPS I dogs and toxicokinetic studies in the normal beagle 
dog and cynomolgus monkey. α-L-iduronidase activity was monitored in blood/plasma and tissues. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of laronidase was investigated in two MPS I dogs (1 female and 1 male) 
after a single bolus dose (0,1 mg/kg) and repeated infusions (2 mg/kg/week) during 10 weeks. 
Following  a  single  injection,  α-L-iduronidase  enzyme  activity  in  plasma  decreased  biphasically  and 
rapidly (t  ½ α< 1  min and t  ½ β = 20 min). 24  hours post-injection, the highest enzyme activity was 
located in the liver and significant activity was also observed in the lung and kidney. No significant 
enzyme activity was observed in other tissues such as the brain, cartilage and cornea. 
Following  repeated  infusions  for  9  hours  weekly,  laronidase  was  cleared  rapidly  and  biphasically  at 
week  2  (t½  α  <  1  min  and  t½  β  ~  1h).  After  10  weeks  of  treatment,  laronidase  clearance  became 
monophasic in MPS I dogs and AUC increased by 1-2 orders of magnitude (t½ ~0,5 to 1h).  
Toxicokinetic  data  were  collected  in  normal  beagle  dogs  after  single  dose  administration  and  in 
cynomolgus monkeys after single and repeated dose (13 weeks) administration. Doses up to 20- and 
30 times the intended dose for clinical use were tested. 
Non-linear  pharmacokinetics  of  laronidase  was  observed  in  both  dogs  and  monkeys.  In  the  monkey 
model, pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC and T1/2) appeared to be time- and dose dependent. In the 
dog  model only single dose administration  was carried out and therefore only dose  dependency was 
observed.  The  lack  of  linearity  might  be  explained  theoretically  by  the  presence  of  a  high  affinity 
mannose-6-dependant receptor on peripheral white blood cells that remove laronidase from the blood 
circulation. The saturation of this receptor at high doses is proposed as a possible explanation for the 
non-linearity of laronidase.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  studies  were  carried  out  in  rats  and  dogs.  In  rats,  rhIDU  did  not  induce  toxicity  at  the 
highest dose tested, 5.8 mg/kg, which is equivalent to approximately 1 mg/kg in humans on a surface 
area basis. In dogs, the no-observable-effect level (NOAEL) for the described treatment regimen is > 
11.6 mg/kg, which is equivalent to > 5.8 mg/kg in humans on a surface area basis. These doses are 10- 
and  20-fold  the  dose  administered  to  humans  in  the  phase  I/II  and  phase  III  clinical  studies. 
Furthermore, an investigation of the cardiac function was performed in the dog and did not reveal any 
particular concern. 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
In the  case of rhIDU, a  well-characterised recombinant form  of a native human  protein, repeat dose 
studies  were  not  carried  out  in  a  rodent  because  administration  of  rhIDU  would  be  expected  to 
8/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
produce an immune response in animals that would obscure any potential toxicity. In analogy, formal 
toxicology  studies  in  dogs  were  also  not  conducted.  However,  a  limited  8-week  study  in  dogs  was 
undertaken.  Cynomolgus  monkeys  were  chosen  for  the  non-rodent  species  because  they  are 
phylogenetically closer to humans than non-primates and, therefore, less likely to demonstrate a strong 
immune response.  
In  the  repeated  dose  study,  monkeys  were  administered  weekly  IV  infusions  of  up  to  16.6  mg/kg 
rhIDU  for  26  weeks.  The  highest  dose  tested  in  these  studies  (16.6  mg/kg)  was  limited  by  the 
maximum volume that could be safely administered to the animals, which was 28.6 ml/kg, a volume 
feasible because of the length of the 8-hour infusion. At the 13-week interim analysis there were no 
adverse  signs  of  toxicity,  apart  from  a  case  of  oedema  in  one  animal.  The  no-observable-adverse-
effect  level  (NOAEL)  for  rhIDU  was  16.6  mg/kg  through  13  weeks,  which  is  29-fold  (10-fold  on  a 
surface  area  basis)  the  human  dose  of  0.58  mg/kg  administered  in  phase  I/II  and  phase  III  clinical 
studies. 
The  formation  of  antibodies  was  monitored  in  the  acute  dog  and  repeat  dose  monkey  studies.  In 
contrast to many of the pharmacodynamic studies, no pre-treatment with antihistamines was given and 
the  infusate  did  not  contain  serum  albumin.  All  of  the  monkeys  that  had  been  treated  weekly  with 
rhIDU developed antibodies when monitored at week 13. The antibody response was dose-dependent; 
no differences in antibody levels were noted comparing male and female animals.  
Genotoxicity 
Studies  to  assess  the  mutagenic  potential  of  rhIDU  have  not  been  conducted.  This  approach  is 
acceptable, considering the nature  of the product. No  mutagenic potential would be anticipated with 
rhIDU  based  on  its  structure  (a  recombinant  human  glycoprotein),  its  impurity  profile  and  the 
excipients in the final product. 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with rhIDU, although the compound is intended for 
long-term treatment. However, no carcinogenic potential would be anticipated with rhIDU based on its 
structure (a recombinant human glycoprotein) and its impurity profile. The biochemical properties of 
α-L-iduronidase are well characterised, and there are no known interactions with DNA. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
No  fertility, general reproduction  or  development toxicities were  observed in  rats at  doses  up to  3.6 
mg/kg/day, a weekly dose 7x greater than the proposed human dose. However, the potential risk for 
humans  is  unknown, which is adequately  reflected in the SPC. No studies of  perinatal  toxicity  have 
been conducted with rhIDU. 
Local tolerance 
Preclinical local tolerance studies for rhIDU have not been performed. In non-clinical toxicity studies, 
there were no serious adverse findings related to the injection/infusion of rhIDU. In humans, there has 
been  no  sequel  related  to  rhIDU  administration  that  necessitates  further  investigation  in  animal 
studies.  RhIDU  is  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  following  dilution  and  does  not  include 
concentrations  of  irritant  or  corrosive  components  that  are  likely  to  lead  to  serious  reactions  at  the 
injection site. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Considering  the  protein  nature  of  the  laronidase  and  the  frequency  of  MPS  I,  exposure  to  the 
environment is considered very limited and therefore no risk of concern would be expected. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Overall,  the  limited  programme  of  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies,  some  in  animal 
models of MPS I, provided adequate evidence for efficacy of rhIDU and sufficiently characterised its 
pharmaco-/toxicokinetics and distribution.  Although the number of animals included in some studies 
was low, this is understandable in view of the requirement for MPS I strains. 
9/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Single-dose intravenous toxicity studies in rats and dogs at 10-20x the proposed clinical dose showed 
no signs of toxicity. A NOAEL of 29x the clinical dose was established. In a 6-month repeated-dose 
study in monkeys the only finding of potential clinical significance was one case of oedema consistent 
with  a  mild  hypersensitivity  reaction.  Since  rhIDU  is  a  human  protein  and  therefore  foreign  to  the 
species  of  animals  used  in  both  the  pharmacodynamic  and  toxicity  studies,  the  immune  reaction 
observed might have been expected. All animals treated repeatedly with rhIDU produced antibodies, 
the levels of which were dose-related in MPS I cats and in monkeys, but not in MPS I dogs. The levels 
decreased in some MPS I dogs with continued treatment.  
Production  of  antibodies  also  resulted  in  IgG-mediated  activation  of  complement  that  led  to 
anaphylactoid reactions in some of the pharmacodynamic studies, in MPS I dogs and cats, conducted 
with  less  pure  and  differently  formulated  preparations  of  rhIDU  than  the  current  clinical  product. 
These  reactions  were  alleviated  in  subsequent  pharmacodynamic  studies  through  the  use  of 
antihistamine  pre-treatment,  a  two-stage  infusion  regimen  and  inclusion  of  CSA  in  the  infusate. 
Anaphylactoid  reactions  were  not  observed  in  repeat  dose  studies  with  the  commercial  formulation 
through 13 weeks in the 26-week study in monkeys or an 8-week study in dogs. Importantly, no study 
included antihistamine pre-treatment or use of albumin in the infusate. 
No  genotoxicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed,  which  is  considered  acceptable  on  the 
basis of the nature of the product.  
Animal  studies  do  not  indicate  direct  or  indirect  harmful  effects  on  pregnancy,  embryonal/foetal 
development, parturition and postnatal development. The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Aldurazyme should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. It is also recommended to 
stop breast-feeding during Aldurazyme treatment.  
It can be concluded that the package of toxicity data as a whole suffices for this compound, provided 
that careful clinical observations are made and undertakings fulfilled post-marketing. The preclinical 
findings of potential serious clinical concern relate to immune reactions, anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity 
and the development of antibodies, which is further discussed in the clinical section.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Aldurazyme  (laronidase)  is  indicated  for  use  as  long-term  enzyme  replacement  therapy  in  patients 
with a confirmed diagnosis of Mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I; α-L-iduronidase deficiency) to treat 
the non-neurological manifestations of the disease (see section 5.1 of the SPC). MPS I is caused by an 
inherited deficiency in the activity of the lysosomal enzyme α-L-iduronidase. It is an extremely rare 
disorder,  with  an  estimated  prevalence  in  the  European  Union  of  approximately  0.025  in  10,000 
persons.  Due  to  lack  of  functioning  α-L-iduronidase,  there  is  an  abnormal  accumulation  and  tissue 
deposition  of  certain  glycosaminoglycans  (GAG).  At  present,  there  is  no  treatment  available  for  the 
disease, other than palliative.  
The recommended dosage regimen of Aldurazyme is 100 U/kg body weight administered once every 
week  as  an  intravenous  infusion.  The  total  volume  of  the  administration  should  be  delivered  in 
approximately 3-4 hours. Since MPS I is a genetic disorder, the replacement therapy is foreseen to be 
a lifelong therapy. 
Overview of Clinical Trials Programme 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  Good  Clinical  Practise  (GCP)  standards  and  agreed 
international ethical principles. 
Two clinical trials were performed as part of the development programme of rhIDU in the proposed 
indication. These studies enrolled a total of 55 patients with a confirmed diagnosis of MPS I based on 
IDU levels; 32 of these patients received rhIDU, the remaining patients received placebo.  
The supportive study (BIO7500-001), a phase I/II open-label study enrolled 10 patients, 6 males and 4 
females  ranging  in  age  from  5  to  22  years  old  with  a  mean  age  of  12.3  years.  The  objective  of  the 
phase I/II study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rhIDU in the treatment of patients with MPS 
I. A protocol amendment allows an extension of the treatment period to 152 weeks.  
10/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study 
(ALID-003-99),  a  phase III,  multicentre,  double  blind, 
The  pivotal 
randomised, 
placebo-controlled study enrolled 45 patients. The objective of the phase III study was to confirm the 
clinical  safety  and  efficacy  of  treatment  of  MPS  I  patients  with  rhIDU  during  a  26-week  treatment 
period. 45 patients were randomised, 23 in the placebo group (ranging in age from 6 to 39 years old 
with a mean age of 15.4 years) and 22 in the rhIDU group (ranging in age from 7 to 43 years old with 
a mean age of 15.6 years). Furthermore, the phase III pivotal trial (ALID-003-99) was extended as a 
phase III open-label extension study (ALID-006-001) evaluating the long-term safety and efficacy of 
rhIDU.  Patients  completing  the  phase  III  double-blind  study  were  given  the  option  to  continue 
treatment with rhIDU in the open-label study. All patients chose to continue receiving rhIDU for up to 
18 months. However, only summary details were provided with this application and the results from 
this extension phase will be submitted for review post-marketing. 
The dose administered was the same in both studies; 100 U/kg body weight administered once weekly. 
The pre-clinical data suggested that this was the effective dose to guarantee adequate delivery of the 
enzyme to all tissues in order to demonstrate biochemical and clinical improvement in the disease. The 
choice of dosing interval (once per week) was based on a pre-clinical in vitro study using fibroblasts 
that demonstrated uptake into the lysosome, degradation of GAG, and suggested that the half-life of 
the enzyme was 5 days after uptake into the lysosome. The time of day of dosing was not specified, 
nor  was  the  relation  of  dosing  to  meals.    However,  given  the  route  of  administration  and  nature  of 
action of rhIDU, there are no anticipated effects of food and drink on efficacy. 
The  dosing  regimen  used  in  both  of  these  studies,  100 U/kg  (0.58 mg/kg)  as  a  slow  intravenous 
infusion once weekly, is that proposed for commercial use in humans (see section 4.2 of the SPC). 
Clinical pharmacology 
Human pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data are derived from both the phase I/II and phase III 
clinical studies (see above).  
Pharmacodynamics 
A reduction of urinary GAG excretion due to removal of excess dermatan and heparan sulphate was 
selected  as  a  pharmacodynamic  endpoint  (and  one  of  the  efficacy  parameters)  in  both  the  phase  III 
study  and  the  phase  I/II  study.    The  scientific  assumption  was  proposed  that  a  50%  reduction  in 
urinary  GAG  would  be  an  appropriate  surrogate  marker  for  clinical  improvement.    Furthermore, 
rhIDU  treatment  was  considered  effective  if  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  patients  completing  the  study 
showed a 50% reduction in urinary GAG at week 52 (one of the primary endpoints in the phase I/II 
study). 
Phase I/II study (BIO7500-001) 
Pre-treatment GAG levels correlated with the severity of disease in all patients.  After 1 to 2 weekly 
infusions of rhIDU, there was a decline in urinary GAG levels. After 5 to 6 doses, urinary GAG levels 
appeared  to  reach  a  plateau  that  was  equivalent  to  a  reduction  of  30%  of  the  pre-treatment  level.  A 
sustained gradual decline was reported at the end of the study period in all patients. The mean urinary 
GAG  level  had  declined  to  31.3%  at  week  26,  37.2%  at  week  52,  and  26.4%  at  week  104.  Seven 
patients with values at week 152 showed a mean reduction to 21.5%.  Statistical analysis demonstrated 
that at weeks 6, 12, 26, and 52, the reduction in urinary GAG was statistically significant (p<0.001).  
The primary endpoint of a ≥50% reduction in urinary GAG levels in two-thirds of the patients was met 
at weeks 26 and 52 and 10/10 patients showed a ≥ 50% reduction of urinary GAG at week 26, 8/10 
patients  showed a  ≥ 50% reduction  at week 52, 9/9 patients showed  a ≥ 50% reduction  at  week 104 
and 7/7 patients showed a ≥ 50% reduction at week 152.  
This reduction confirmed the mechanism of action demonstrated in vitro of IDU replacement therapy, 
the  hydrolyse  of  the  accumulated  GAG  substrates  (dermatan  and  heparan  sulphate).  Variations  in 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  did  not  significantly  affect  rhIDU  efficacy  in  terms  of  urinary  GAG 
excretion. There was little correlation (r2 = 0.034) between peak plasma IDU activity versus urinary 
GAG concentration.   
11/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase III study (ALID-003-99)  
The difference between treatment groups in mean change from baseline to week 26 was evaluated for 
urinary  GAG  levels.  For  the  placebo  group,  urinary  GAG  levels  showed  a  mean  increase  of  47.3% 
over  the  26 weeks,  while  the  rhIDU  group  demonstrated  a  mean  decrease  of  54.1%  (p<0.001).  The 
mean urinary GAG levels for the rhIDU group differed from the placebo group by 101% at the end of 
the 26 weeks treatment period, which was statistically significant (p<0.001) and considered clinically 
relevant. The decrease in urinary GAG levels observed in the rhIDU group was evident by week 4 of 
the  study  period  and  was  maintained  through  week  26.  Overall,  all  patients  in  the  active  treatment 
group had a reduction in urinary GAG level although no patient achieved a normal level by week 26 
of treatment. 
All patients included in the study were evaluated for the development of IgG antibodies (ELISA). 20 
of 22 patients who received rhIDU treatment tested positive for enzyme specific antibodies.  The mean 
time  to  a  positive  ELISA  result  was  53  days  after  initiation  of  treatment  (range  20  to  106  days). 
Despite the IgG formation, the decrease of urinary GAG was maintained over time with a magnitude 
similar to that observed in the phase I/II study. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A total of 22 patients were included in pharmacokinetic determination, all 10 patients from the phase 
I/II  study  and  a  subset  of  12  patients  on  treatment  from  the  phase  III  study.  Due  to  the  nature  of 
enzyme  replacement  therapy,  it  was  inappropriate  to  investigate  rhIDU  in  studies  in  healthy 
volunteers. Hence, both studies were performed in MPS I patients.  
The phase I/II study examined the pharmacokinetic profile of IDU in plasma following once weekly 
intravenous  infusions  of  rhIDU  (over  approximately  3-4  hours)  at  a  dose  of  125,000 U/kg 
(0.50 mg/kg) (equivalent to 100 U/kg (0.58 mg/kg)) for 152 weeks. Plasma pharmacokinetic samples 
were  taken  at  infusions  1,  2,  6  (two  patients  only),  12  and  26.  Tissue  enzyme  activity  was  also 
assessed  in  the  phase  I/II  study  by  evaluation  of  IDU  enzyme  levels  in  buccal  brushings  and 
leukocytes. No other patient tissue samples were collected in either clinical study.  
The phase III study examined the pharmacokinetic profile of IDU following once weekly intravenous 
infusions of rhIDU (over approximately 4 hours) at a dose of 100 U/kg (0.58 mg/kg) for 26 weeks in a 
sub-group of patients. Pharmacokinetic samples were taken at infusions 1, 12 and 26. 
Phase I/II study (BIO7500-001)   
Plasma  activity  rose  slowly  over  the  first  hour  of  slow  infusion.  During  the  increased  infusion  rate 
period (the following 2-3 hours), the plasma IDU activity level continued to rise and generally reached 
a peak activity level of 100-200 U/ml just at the end of the infusion (Cmax range: 52 - 225 U/ml).  After 
the  infusion  ended,  the  enzyme  activity  fell  rapidly,  reaching  low  but  still  detectable  levels  4  hours 
after the end of the infusion. The peak activity levels achieved were about 10 times the half-maximal 
uptake in vitro. 
Variations in Cmax, t½ and CL occurred within and  between  patients  as treatment  progressed.  These 
variations  appeared  primarily  related  to  changes  in  individual  patient  physiology  rather  than  to 
immune response (4 patients developed IDU-specific antibodies). 
The mean circulating t½ of IDU was approximately 1.8 to 1.9 hours at weeks 1 and 2 and decreased to 
1.2 to 1.4 hours at weeks 12 and 26.  There was no evidence of accumulation of IDU over time. The t½ 
early in rhIDU treatment was consistent among patients receiving different batches of enzyme, with an 
SD of 0.280 and 0.214 hours for weeks 1 and 2, respectively.  During treatment the variation increased 
such  that  by  weeks  12  and  26  the  t½  SD  was  0.442  and  0.574  hours.  Plasma  CL  was  relatively 
consistent at weeks 1, 2, 6, and 26, with mean values between 270 and 350 ml/h/kg, but increased at 
week 12  to  506.3 ml/h/kg.  No  relationship  was  found  between  urinary  GAG  levels  and  enzyme 
pharmacokinetic parameters. 
Tissue enzymatic activity was assessed by the evaluation of IDU enzyme levels in buccal brushings 
and  leukocytes.  Prior  to  treatment,  all  patients  had  very  little  or  no  detectable  IDU  in  their  buccal 
mucosa.  By the week 2 pre-infusion assessment, enzyme was detectable in the buccal mucosa.  When 
compared to the mean level of IDU in normal buccal mucosa IDU levels in MPS I patients reached an 
average of about 1% of normal in all patients, a level expected to reduce GAG storage. The presence 
12/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of IDU in the buccal mucosa provides a measure of the adequacy of the enzyme replacement process 
by showing that the enzyme is being delivered to distal tissue.   
Leukocyte  IDU levels  were  very low  or  undetectable at  pre-treatment.  When  compared to  the  mean 
level of IDU in normal leukocytes, the mean trough plasma levels reached an average 18% of normal 
at  week 26,  12%  of  normal  at  week  52,  and  35%  of  normal  at  week  104.    Leukocyte  IDU  levels 
provide further support that enzyme is being delivered to different cell types and demonstrates that, as 
expected,  a  higher  level  of  enzyme  uptake  is  achieved  in  cells  that  are  in  direct  contact  with  the 
circulation. 
Phase III study (ALID-003-99) 
Due to the short t½ observed in this study (2 to 4 hours) relative to the dosing frequency of once every 
week, each infusion was treated as a single dose for pharmacokinetic analysis.  At infusion, the mean 
Cmax was 0.197 U/ml, and was reached at a median of 3.93 hours, consistent with the median infusion 
time  of  3.98 hours.  Following  the  infusion,  the  plasma  IDU  concentration  remained  above 
concentration for half-maximal saturation of uptake into cells (0.7 nM; 0.01 U/ml) for approximately 
3-4 hours. 
Mean  CL  was  1.96 ml/min/kg,  mean  Vz  was  0.604 L/kg,  mean  Vss  was  0.440 L/kg,  mean  t½  was 
3.61 hours and mean MRT was 3.83 hours.  There were statistically significant differences (p≤0.050) 
among  the  infusions  over  time  for  Cmax,  Vz  and  Vss,  both  normalised  and  not  normalised  for  body 
weight.    There  was  an  increase  in  Cmax  over  the  26-week  dosing  period,  with  a  mean  7%  increase 
between  infusions  1  and  12,  and  a  further  mean  44%  increase  between  infusions  12 and  26.    This 
increase  was  probably  due  to  a  reduction  in  Vz  by  approximately  50%  between  infusions  1  and  12. 
The reduction in Vz may also account for the trend towards a reduction in t½ over time. There was an 
inverse relationship between Vz and antibody level at weeks 12 and 26, which might suggests that the 
decrease in Vz could be related to formation of anti-rhIDU antibodies during treatment. However, CL 
did not  appear to be  affected  by the duration  of  the  treatment period (26  weeks), indicating  that the 
irreversible transport of rhIDU out of the plasma was not affected. Antibody bound enzyme may have 
different  distribution  characteristics  than  unbound  enzyme,  thus  increasing  the  fraction  of  the  total 
body load of enzyme in the plasma and reducing the volume of distribution. Alternatively the Vz and 
Vss decreases could  be explained with  the reduction of liver impairment i.e. an increased number  of 
functional hepatocytes capable to better capture rhIDU. 
Interaction studies 
Since laronidase is a protein, it is not expected to bind to other proteins and metabolic degradation is 
expected to follow the pathways of other proteins, i.e. peptide hydrolysis.  Laronidase is unlikely to be 
a  candidate  for  drug-drug  interactions  and  neither  in  vitro  interaction  studies  nor  specific  in  vivo 
clinical  drug  interaction  studies  were  therefore  carried  out.  However,  there  is  a  theoretical  risk  of 
inhibition of intracellular α-L-iduronidase activity by chloroquine and some other amines and this is 
appropriately reflected in section 4.5 of the SPC. Any evidence of product interactions will be reported 
post-authorisation.  Analgesics  and  antibiotics  that  are  often  used  in  MPS  I  patients  have  in  clinical 
studies been administered concurrently with rhIDU to a large number of patients without any reports 
of adverse events from potential interactions. 
Special groups 
The  influence  of  renal  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  α-L-iduronidase  was  not  studied.  Renal 
elimination of α-L-iduronidase is considered to be a minor pathway for clearance. 
The  influence  of  hepatic  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  α-L-iduronidase  was  not  studied.  As 
metabolism is expected to occur by peptide hydrolysis, an impaired liver function is not expected to 
affect the pharmacokinetics of α-L-iduronidase in a clinically significant way. 
There are no pharmacokinetic data in children below the age of 5 years and in patients older than 65 
years  and  no  dosage  regimen  can  be  recommended  in  these  patients.  However,  the  applicant  is 
currently undertaking a study in patients < 5 years of age with MPS I and these data will be provided 
post-marketing. The lack of data has been clearly reflected in the SPC. 
13/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Bioequivalence studies 
No bioequivalence studies were conducted. 
Clinical efficacy  
Supportive study 
Description of the study 
Study BIO7500-001 was an open-label phase I/II clinical study of the safety and efficacy of rhIDU in 
patients  with  MPS  I  when  treated  for  26  weeks.    The  protocol  was  later  extended  to  allow  for 
treatment and assessments out to 152 weeks.  Up to 10 patients aged 5 years and over with a diagnosis 
of mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I) confirmed by clinical and enzymatic assessments were enrolled. 
The  patient  population  comprised  6  males  and  4  females  ranging  in  age  from  5  to  22  years  of  age 
(mean: 12.3  years). rhIDU in doses  of 125,000 units per kg (0.58 mg/kg) was administered by slow 
intravenous  infusion  (over  approximately  4  hours)  once  per  week  for  152  weeks.    All  patients  were 
pre-treated  with  antihistamines  and/or  corticosteroids  to  help  manage  potential  hypersensitivity 
reactions. The reasons for missed infusions in the phase I/II study were mainly due to unavailability of 
laronidase. However, the overall compliance rate was over 90%.  
RESULTS 
Primary efficacy variables 
The  primary  endpoints  studied  included  hepatosplenomegaly  (through  week  104)  and  urinary 
Glycosaminoglycans (GAG) (through week 152). 
Hepatosplenomegaly: The mean decrease in liver volume from baseline to week 26 was 23%. At week 
26, 8 of 10 patients had ≥ 20% reduction in liver volume and 5 of 10 patients had a ≥ 20% reduction in 
spleen size. At week 26, 8 of 10 patients had normalised liver sizes. At week 52, 7 of 10 patients had ≥ 
20% reduction in liver volume and 6 of 10 patients had a ≥ 20% reduction in spleen size. The mean 
decrease in liver volume was 23% at week 26 and 26% at week 52. At week 52, 9 of 10 patients had 
normalized  liver  sizes  and  2  of  10  patients  had  normalized  spleen  sizes  when  expressed  as  a 
percentage of body weight. At week 104, 7 of 9 patients had a ≥ 20% reduction in liver volume and 4 
of 9 patients had a ≥ 20% reduction in spleen volume. At week 104, 9 of 9 patients had normalized 
liver  sizes  and  1  of  9  patients  had  normalized  spleen  sizes  when  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  body 
weight.   
Urinary Glycosaminoglycans (GAG): Initiation of weekly enzyme infusions induced a sharp  decline 
in urinary GAG excretion within 2 to 3 weeks. 10 of 10 patients showed a ≥ 50% reduction of urinary 
GAG at week 26, 8 of 10 patients at week 52, 9 of 9 patients at week 104, and 7 of 7 patients at week 
152.  When  compared  to  GAG  excretion  in  a  normal  population,  the  excess  GAG  excretion  was 
reduced to within 20% of the normal range at week 52, to 18% at week 104 and was within the normal 
range (101% reduction) at week 152. In 9 of the 10 patients, the urinary GAG excretion approached or 
was within the normal range.   
Secondary efficacy variables 
The secondary efficacy variables studied included airway obstruction (measured through week 26;  
week 52 for those with an abnormal baseline), Joint Range of Motion (ROM) (measured through week 
104), Cardiac function (measured through week 104), and Eye Disease (measured through week 104). 
Airway Obstruction: Total apnea and hypopnea events per night decreased from a mean of 6.6 to 1.1 
(83% decrease) and 8.9 to 4.9 (45% decrease), respectively, at week 26. Seven patients with apneic or 
hypopneic events at baseline had a decreased number of events after starting treatment, 1 patient had 
no change, and 2 patients had an increased number of events. Minutes of hypoxia, defined as minutes 
below  90%  oxygen  saturation,  decreased  in  the  2  patients  with  hypoxic  events  at  baseline  pre-
treatment.   
14/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joint  Range  of  Motion  (ROM):  Shoulder  flexion  increased  from  baseline  in  7  of  8  patients  with  a 
statistically  significant  increase  in  mean  ROM  of  28.13°(right)  and  26.12°(left)  at  week  52  and 
30.37°(right)  and  23.89°(left)  at  week  104.    Shoulder  extension  increased  by  15.91°(right)  and 
14.66°(left) at week 104. The mean ROM of knee extension increased at week 52, with a statistically 
significant  linear trend in  right  knee extension. The change in right  knee extension  was sustained  at 
week 104, and left knee extension increased. Elbow extension ROM showed a statistically significant 
increase  at  week  52,  with  increases  of  approximately  7°  in  the  right  and  left  elbows.    While  mean 
ROM  was  still  increased  compared  to  pre-treatment  at  week  104,  mean  ROM  had  decreased  from 
week 52.  
Cardiac function: New  York  Heart Association (NYHA)  Scores of functional capacity improved  by 
one class or more in all 10 patients.  The number of patients with Class I NYHA scores increased from 
0 at pre-treatment to 5 at week 52 and 6 at week 104.  All patients showed a decrease of at least one 
class  by  week  52.    The  results  very  likely  reflect  improvements  in  factors  such  as  cardiac  function, 
joint function, and pulmonary function. 
Eye disease: All three patients with the worst visual acuity at pre-treatment showed improvement in 
one eye. Corneal clouding did not change appreciably in any patient. 
Furthermore,  MRI  Studies  of  the  Brain  and  the  Cervical  Cord  was  undertaken,  as  well  as 
measurements  of  Lumbar  Puncture  Opening  Pressure  and  GAG  Levels  of  CSF.  No  substantial  or 
consistent results were observed and the results were not statistically significant. However, although 
conducted  in  a  smaller  number  of  individuals  (N=6)  lumbar  puncture  for  the  evaluation  of 
cerebrospinal fluid detected a reduction in the GAG concentration, which was not accompanied by any 
change in higher functions. 
Evaluation  of  the  bone,  investigation  of  increases  in  height  and  weight  as  well  evaluation  in 
accordance with Wechsler Intelligence Scales, but without consistent or statistically significant results. 
Main clinical study 
Description of the study 
Phase III study (ALID-003-99) was a multicenter, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study 
of the safety and efficacy of rhIDU in patients with MPS I when treated for 26 weeks. The study was 
conducted at five sites; two in Europe, two in the US, and one in Canada.   
To be eligible for the study a patient must have had an enzyme activity level of less than 10% of the 
lower limit of the normal range, must have been capable of standing independently for a minimum of 
six minutes and walking a minimum of five meters within six minutes, must have been able to perform 
a reproducible FVC manoeuvre, and must have had a baseline FVC value that is less than or equal to 
80% of the patient’s predicted normal FVC value.    
Within 2 weeks of completing the baseline phase, patients were randomised into the treatment phase 
and received either rhIDU treatment or a placebo.  During the treatment phase, patients received a 4-
hour intravenous infusion of the study medication on a weekly basis (7± 3 days) at the investigative 
study centre for 26 consecutive weeks. Patients randomised to the rhIDU treatment group received 100 
units/kg  rhIDU.  All  patients  received  pre-treatment  with  both  antihistamines  and  antipyretics.  A 
minimum of 4 days was required between consecutive infusions. 
A  total  of  45  patients  were  randomised  into  the  study;  23  to  the  placebo  group  and  22  were 
randomised  to  receive  rhIDU.  All  45  randomised  patients  completed  the  study.  The  mean  ages  at 
baseline in the two treatment groups were comparable, with a mean age of 15.4 years in the placebo 
group and a mean age of 15.6 years in the rhIDU treatment group.  The age range for this study was 
from 6 to 43 years of age.  In addition, 49% of patients in the study were ≤ 12 years of age, 24% of 
patients  were  13  to  ≤  18  years  of  age,  and  27%  of  patients  were  19  to  ≤  65  years  of  age.  The 
distribution of male and female patients between the two treatment groups was comparable, as was the 
number of males and females entered into the study. 37 (82 %) patients in this study were classified as 
Hurler-Scheie patients, with 7 (16 %) patients being classified as Scheie patients, and 1 (2 %) patient 
15/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
being classified as a Hurler patient.  Both treatment groups had a low mean enzyme activity level (1.9 
% and 1.2 % of lower normal range in the placebo and rhIDU groups, respectively). 
In  this  study,  personal  reasons  were  responsible  for  missed  infusions;  patient  or  parent  willing  to 
received infusions less frequently than  once a week. However, the overall compliance rate was over 
90%. 
RESULTS 
Primary Efficacy Variables 
The  protocol  defined  two  primary  efficacy  objectives  for  this  study;  each  comparing  the  mean  and 
median  changes  from  baseline  to  week  26  between  the  laronidase  treated  group  and  the  placebo-
control  group. First, the  study sought to show a statistically significant increase in percent  predicted 
normal  forced  vital  capacity  (FVC).  Second,  the  study  sought  to  show  a  statistically  significant 
increase in the absolute distance travelled (in metres) during the six-minute walk test.  
Hypothesis testing for the primary efficacy objective was carried out using a Wilcoxon rank-sum test 
and the primary endpoints was deemed to have been met if the mean change from baseline for both 
parameters are statistically significantly different at the 0.05 level.  
% of Predicted Normal Forced Vital Capacity: After 26 weeks of treatment, the difference between 
the active and placebo groups in the change from  baseline in the  mean  %  of  predicted  normal FVC 
was 5.9 percentage points (median difference 3.0 percentage points, p=0.016).   
When considering the difference for % of predicted normal FVC seen in this study and calculating an 
effect  size,  the  resulting  effect  size  is  0.6,  which  is  in  the  moderate  effect  size  range  described  by 
Cohen.    Paediatric  asthma  trials  are  commonly  designed  to  detect  a  difference  of  5%  in  pulmonary 
function  tests,  which  approximates  what  is  seen  in  this  study  where  73%  of  patients  are  in  the 
paediatric age range.  
Six-minute walk  exercise tolerance  test: The  change from  baseline to  week 26 in the  6-minute walk 
distance  in  the  rhIDU  treatment  group  was  19.7  meters  compared  to  –18.3  meters  in  the  placebo 
treatment group.  This leads to a mean difference from placebo of 38.1 meters (median difference 38.5 
meters,  which  is  close  to  being  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  the  rhIDU  treatment  group 
(p=0.066)). When viewing this in terms of effect size, the resulting effect size is 0.6, which is in the 
moderate effect size range described by Cohen.  
Secondary Efficacy Variables 
There  were  four  secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  change  from  baseline  to  week  26  in  the 
apnea/hypopnea index, liver organ volume, disability score index of the Childhood Health Assessment 
Questionnaire/Health  Assessment  Questionnaire  (CHAQ/HAQ),  and  in  the  shoulder  flexion  of  the 
Joint Range of Motion (ROM) (the mean of the left and right shoulders was used for the analysis). 
Apnea/Hypopnea  Index  (AHI):  Values  in  the  rhIDU  treatment  group  decreased  on  average  by −2.9 
whereas  the  placebo  group  increased  slightly  by  0.4.    This  result  was  not  statistically  significant 
(p=0.145)  even  though  the  trend  is  in  favour  of  the  rhIDU  treatment  group.  A  post-hoc  subgroup 
analysis was performed in patients whose AHI scores at baseline were suggestive of obstructive sleep 
apnea-hypopnea syndrome. There were nine patients in the rhIDU treatment group with an AHI ≥ 20 
at  baseline.    A  within-group  test  on  the  changes  from  baseline  to  week  26  in  these  nine  patients 
resulted in a mean decrease in the AHI of –7.4, which was statistically significant (p=0.011).  Four of 
these patients reduced their AHI from ≥ 20 to below 20.   
Hepatomegaly:  The  %  change  was  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  the  rhIDU  treatment  group, 
with a mean decrease of –18.9% in the rhIDU treatment group compared to an increase of 1.3% in the 
placebo treatment group (p=0.001).  Differences between the two treatment groups were seen as early 
as week 4, which correlates with the improvements seen in FVC in the rhIDU treatment group as early 
as week 4. Of the 14 patients in the placebo group who were classified as having abnormal baseline 
liver organ volumes, three patients (21%) were considered normal at week 26; of the 18 patients who 
16/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were classified as having abnormal liver organ volumes at baseline in the rhIDU treatment group, 13 
patients (72%) were considered normal at week 26.   
The CHAQ/HAQ Disability Index evaluates the extent of disability using a scale of 0 to 3 with 3 being 
the worst score.  Changes in the score were small and not statistically significant when looking at the 
overall population.   
Joint  Range  of  Motion  (ROM)  (Shoulder  Flexion):  When  looking  at  the  overall  population  for 
shoulder  flexion  changes  from  baseline  to  week  26,  the  placebo  group  decreased  by  –4.9  degrees 
compared  to  –1.5  in  the  rhIDU  treatment  group.    This  difference  was  not  statistically  significant 
(p=0.987).   
Tertiary Efficacy Variables 
The % change from baseline to week 26 in urinary GAG levels was statistically significant in favour 
of the rhIDU treatment group with a mean decrease of 54.1% in the rhIDU treatment group compared 
to an increase  of  47.3% in  the  placebo group (p < 0.001). Differences  between  the  two  groups were 
seen as early as week 4 in this surrogate marker.  These results corroborate the decreases in urinary 
GAG levels observed in the phase I/II study.  
Other tertiary efficacy variables including the total respiratory index of the sleep study, the Pain Scale 
of the CHAQ/HAQ, and quality of life measurements failed to reach statistical significance. 
Extension study 
Phase III study open-label extension (ALID-006-01) 
The  double-blind  phase was followed  by an open-label  extension phase for  24  weeks, resulting in a 
total  of  50  weeks  of  treatment.  All  patients  received  active  therapy  with  rhIDU  although  without 
knowing  treatment  assignment  in  the  concluded  double-blind  phase.  Efficacy  parameters  were 
analysed at baseline (last measurement prior to randomisation in phase III double-blind phase), entry 
(last measurement prior to enrolment in phase III open-label extension phase) and at weeks 12 and 24 
of the study. 
Results 
The  placebo/rhIDU  group  showed  a  slight  decline  (0.6%)  in  mean  FVC  (p=0.596)  and  increase  in 
mean  (23.8  metres)  Six-minute  walk  distance  (p=0.073)  from  entry  to  week  24.  The  rhIDU/  rhIDU 
group  had  a  slight  increment  (0.6%)  in  mean  FVC  (p=0.732)  and  increase  in  mean  (23.2  metres, 
p=0.015)  Six-minute  walk  distance  from  entry  to  week  24.  The  rhIDU/  rhIDU  group  showed  an 
overall change from baseline of 5.9 % (p=0.003) in mean FVC and 42.9 metres (p=0.005) Six-minute 
walking distance. At week 50 a mean reduction of 64.8% in urinary GAG was observed. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special patient groups were performed although the applicant is currently undertaking a 
study to evaluate the effect of Aldurazyme in children < 5years of age with the most severe phenotype 
of MPS I. These data will be provided as part of a post-marketing commitment. The lack of data  in 
children <5 years of age and in patients >65 years are reflected in the SPC.   
Impact of Antibody Development on the clinical efficacy results 
Based  on the clinical trials performed,  almost  all  patients  are  expected to develop  IgG antibodies  to 
laronidase, mostly within 3 months of initiation of treatment. All seropositive patients were tested for 
in-vitro  neutralising  effects.  Three  patients  showed  marginal  in-vitro  neutralising  inhibitory  activity, 
which  did  not  appear  to  impact  clinical  efficacy.  Two  of  the  patients  who  initially  developed  IgG 
antibodies  to  laronidase  no  longer  had  detectable  IgG  antibodies  after  a  total  of  12  months  of 
Aldurazyme treatment. The presence of antibodies appears not to be related to the incidence of IARs. 
However, due to the rarity of the condition and the limited experience to date, the effect of antibody 
formation on safety and efficacy is currently not fully established. The occurrence of IgE antibodies 
17/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  not  fully  explored.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  further  investigate  the  impact  of  antibody 
formation on clinical efficacy as a part of the post-marketing commitments. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Safety  data  were  reported from  the two  clinical  studies,  the  extension study and compassionate  use/ 
expanded use programme. The actual safety profile of rhIDU is only based on 68 patients (10 patients 
in  the  phase  I/II  and  45  patients  in  the  phase  III  study  and  13  patients  in  compassionate  use 
programmes) treated with a formulation including HSA. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Phase I/II study (BIO7500-001) 
The study provided some insight with respect to long-term effects of the observed immune responses.  
All  10  patients  completed  52  weeks  of  therapy,  9  patients  completed  104  weeks  of  therapy,  and  8 
patients completed 152 weeks of therapy.  There were two patient deaths during the 152-week period, 
one due to a systemic viral illness and one case due to complications following spinal fusion surgery 
for worsening scoliosis.  Any relationship to laronidase treatment was deemed unlikely in both cases.   
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  occurring  on  the  day  of  infusion  were:  rash  (80%), 
abdominal pain (60%), headache (60%), pain (60%), rhinitis (60%), and urticaria (60%).   
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  occurring  on  non-infusion  days  were:  rhinitis  (100%), 
pain  (90%),  asthenia  (80%),  cough  increased  (80%),  abdominal  pain  (70%),  fever  (70%),  headache 
(70%), vomiting (70%), and sinusitis (70%).  
Adverse events that occurred on the day of infusion and were considered related to laronidase could, 
therefore,  be  indicative  of  a  hypersensitivity  reaction.  Events  that  were  known  to  occur  prior  to  the 
start of infusion of laronidase were excluded.  The types of reactions varied among patients with the 
most common being rash and urticaria.   
In  the  phase  I/II  study,  all  patients  developed  rhIDU-IgG  antibodies  (ELISA  assays)  within  6  to  12 
weeks of treatment and 4 patients (40%) experienced specific responses to rhIDU (Western blot). All 
IDU-specific antibodies declined with time and did not affect the efficacy of the treatment. The effect 
of  the  antibodies  to  rhIDU  on  enzyme  distribution  and  efficacy  was  studied  by  comparing  antibody 
titres  with  enzyme  clearance  rates  (t1/2)  and  results  of  therapy  (urinary  GAG  levels).    With  the 
exception  of  allergic 
relationship  between  antibodies, 
there  was  no  apparent 
pharmacokinetics, uptake, or efficacy of the enzyme. 
reactions, 
Phase II/III study (ALID-003-99) 
In the phase III study, 22 patients received an infusion of rhIDU (HSA formulation) weekly (see table 
below).  The  following  safety  parameters  were  monitored  during  the  phase  III  trial:  adverse  events, 
serious adverse events, infusion-associated reactions, immunogenicity testing, physical examinations, 
vital signs, brain/cranio-cervical junction MRI, and standard safety laboratory assessments.  
All patients in the placebo group and a majority of the patients in the rhIDU group (95%) experienced 
at  least  one  adverse  event  during  the  conduct  of  the  study.  None  of  the  patients  in  either  group 
withdrew due to an adverse event.   
18/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events During Double-Blind Treatment* 
Patients Experiencing Adverse Events 
Discontinuations Due to Adverse Events 
Patients with Drug-Related Adverse Events 
Patients with Serious Adverse Events 
Patients with Severe Adverse Events 
Patients with Infusion-Associated Reactions 
*Coded using WHO ART preferred terms 
Placebo  
(n=23) 
23 (100%) 
0 
16 (70%) 
0 (0%) 
2 (9%) 
11 (48%) 
Aldurazyme (n=22) 
21 (95%) 
0 
12 (55%) 
3 (14%) 
6 (27%) 
7 (32%) 
Among adverse events occurring in more than 10% of the patients in the rhIDU treatment group on the 
day of infusion, the most commonly reported adverse events were: flushing, fever and headache. No 
clinically  significant  differences  were  reported  between  treatment  groups  with  respect  to  reports  of 
adverse events occurring on the day of infusion. 
Among the AEs occurring in more than 20% of the patients in the rhIDU- and placebo groups on non-
infusion days, the most commonly reported adverse events were: headache, fever, rash and rhinitis.  
There  were  three  patients  who  experienced  seven  serious  adverse  events  during  this  study.    All 
patients were in the rhIDU treatment group and all events were reported as not related to laronidase. 
There were no deaths during this study.  
All adverse events that occurred on the day of infusion that were reported as causally related and were 
not a result of a protocol-determined assessment on that day (i.e., physical exam, standard laboratory 
testing) were considered to be infusion–associated reactions.  Eleven patients from the placebo group 
and seven from the rhIDU treatment group experienced an infusion-associated reaction.  The types of 
reactions  varied  among  patients  with  the  most  common  being  flushing.  A  majority  of  the  reactions 
were reported as mild in intensity and none were noted to be severe.  
Some  patients  experienced  a  positive  rechallenge  but  there  were  important  variations  in  the  clinical 
presentation, severity and timing of the reactions. Twenty of the 22 rhIDU-treated patients developed 
specific IgG antibodies but none of the 2 tested patients presented rhIDU-specific IgE antibodies. 
None  of  the  patients  experiencing  infusion-associated  reactions  had  positive  results  for  complement 
activation and rhIDU-specific IgE. 
Phase 3 clinical study – open-label extension (ALID-006-01) 
Adverse events were similar in this phase. All except two in the placebo/rhIDU group had developed 
antibodies. One death occurred due to a respiratory infection and there were 14 serious adverse events. 
All  except  one  was  considered  unrelated  to  test  medication.  One  patient  had  an  anaphylactoid  type 
reaction but recovered without sequelae. Infusion associated reactions were mostly mild in intensity. 
Compassionate use (ALID-007-001) / expanded use programme 
The  patients  enrolled  received  the  same  treatment  regimen  as  used  in  the  phase  III  study.  In  the 
expanded  access  protocol,  Aldurazyme  is  administered  with  HSA  while  it  is  administered  without 
HSA  in  the  compassionate  use  programme.  One  death  was  reported  in  the  study  ALID-007-001, 
determined to be unrelated to treatment with rhIDU. 
Immunogenicity  
Approximately  32%  of  patients  experienced  infusion-associated  reactions  (IARs).  Over  time  the 
number  of  these  reactions  decreased.  The  majority  of  the  IARs  were  of  mild  intensity;  the  most 
common reactions consisted of flushing and headache. However, of great concern is a case with pre-
existing airway compromise who developed a severe reaction three hours from the start of the infusion 
(at  week  62  of  treatment)  consisting  of  urticaria  and  airway  obstruction,  requiring  tracheostomy. 
Furthermore, three patients experienced angioedema in the Phase 1/2 study.  
important  variations 
the 
There  were 
hypersensitivity-type reactions. These reactions could be related to the presence of laronidase and/or 
to impurities. According to the applicant, the addition of human serum albumin (HSA) to the infusate 
was  aimed  to  reduce  anaphylactoid  reactions.  In  both  studies,  the  patients  improved  from 
the  clinical  presentation,  severity  and 
timing  of 
in 
19/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anaphylactoid  reactions  after  slowing  or  temporarily  stopping  the  rate  of  infusion.  They  were 
premedicated either with glucocorticoids or antipyretics and/or antihistamines. 
IgG  testing  was  performed to further  investigate  potential immunogenicity.  Multiple  blood samples 
per patient were obtained at various timepoints during the study. Samples were tested using an ELISA 
technique. Overall, 24 patients (4/10 + 20/22) out of 32 developed specific IgG to rhIDU between the 
4th and the 16th infusion and 5 patients who received placebo tested positive for IgG antibodies. The 
mean time to a positive ELISA result was 41 days after initiation of treatment. 
The  presence  of  antibodies  against  the  enzyme  remains  a  concern  and  will  need  to  be  assessed 
following the availability of long-term safety data.  
Laboratory findings 
There  were  no  clinically  important  abnormalities  in  haematology,  serum  chemistry,  or  urinalysis 
results and no indication of immune complex disease following 152 weeks of treatment. 
Safety in special populations 
No studies in special patients were submitted and this has been sufficiently reflected in the SPC. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The applicant has demonstrated that the pharmacodynamic effects of Aldurazyme on the reduction of 
urinary  excretion  of  GAGs  were  consistent  across  the  two  studies.  The  plasma  levels  of  rhIDU 
achieved supported the evidence that an adequate  drug exposure was achieved as the concentrations 
remained above the level for half-maximal saturation of  uptake into cells. The presence  of  adequate 
enzyme levels in buccal mucosa confirms the persistence of enzyme in distal tissues. 
The  effective  dose  was  based  on  animal  studies  where  0.5  mg/kg  produced  maximum  reduction  of 
GAG and further increases had no additional effect (see pre-clinical discussion). Dosage interval was 
based on steady state urinary GAG levels as a measure of efficacy and data from the phase I/II study 
on effects of missed infusions.  
There  was  a  high  degree  of  intra-  and  inter-patient  variability  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters.  The 
presence  of  enzyme  in  leukocytes  suggests  that  variation  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  and/or 
formation  of  antibodies  did  not  result  in  decreased  bioavailability  of  rhIDU  at  the  cellular  level. 
However, in  the  phase III  study an inverse relationship between Vz and  antibody level  was noted at 
weeks 12  and  26.  This  finding  might  be  suggestive  that  the  decrease  in  Vz  could  be  related  to 
formation  of  anti-rhIDU  antibodies  during  treatment.  In  both  clinical  studies  undertaken  patients 
developed  enzyme  specific  antibodies,  although  according  to  the  applicant  this  effect  was  of  no 
clinical significance since the GAGs effects were maintained long-term. Antibody formation seems to 
be unrelated to clinical efficacy as showed when looking at the primary endpoint as well as uptake of 
laronidase  on  a  cellular  level.  It  therefore  appears  that  seroconversion  is  not  associated  with  in  vivo 
neutralising activity, although this possibility cannot be completely ruled out.  
No  data  on  changes  in  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  parameters  were  presented  with 
reference to the severity of illness and this is considered a limitation.  
The phase I/II- and phase III studies provided adequate and consistent evidence to support the efficacy 
of  Aldurazyme  based  on  the  results  on  FVC,  reduction  in  liver  and  spleen  and  reduction  in  urinary 
GAG levels. The percent change from baseline to week 26 in mean liver organ volume was clinically 
and  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  Aldurazyme,  with  a  mean  decrease  of  18.9%  in  the 
Aldurazyme  group  compared  to  an  increase  of  1.3%  in  the  placebo  treated  group  (p=0.001).    Liver 
volumes  that  were  reported  abnormal  at  baseline  became  normalised  at  week  26  in  the  majority  of 
patients (72% and 80% of patients in the phase III- and the phase I/II studies respectively). The mean 
percent  change  in  urinary  GAG  levels  for  patients  in  the  placebo  group  was  an  increase  of  47.3% 
20/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
compared  to  a  decrease  of  54.1%  for  patients  in  the  Aldurazyme  group  (p  <  0.001)  at  week  26  and 
64.8% at week 50. These results are very encouraging.  
Two primary endpoints were selected for the pivotal study (% of predicted FVC and 6-minute walking 
distance). The multi-system nature of the disease and its natural history means that no single endpoint 
can  be  used  as  the  most  relevant  representative  for  the  disease  spectrum.  It  seems  acceptable  to  use 
these  endpoints,  which  assess  the  respiratory  function  in  the  case  of  FVC  and  a  combined  cardio-
respiratory and mobility assessment in case of 6-minute walk test. 
The  median  change  from  baseline  to  week  26  in  the  %  of  predicted  normal  FVC  in  the  rhIDU 
treatment  group  was  statistically  significant  and  in  favour  of  the  active  treatment  group.  This  result 
indicates  an  improvement  in  pulmonary  impairment.  With  reference  to  improvement  in  six-minute 
walk  distance,  there  was  a  positive  trend  since  this  distance  increased  by  a  median  of  27.5m  in  the 
Aldurazyme group compared with a median decrease of 11m in the placebo group. However, since the 
overall difference was not statistically significant the primary objectives of this study have not been 
met, as both endpoints were not significant at the 5% level. The size effect was also very limited (3% 
median improvement of the % of predicted FVC (p=0.016) and 38.5 m median improvement of the 6-
minute walking distance (p=0.066)).  
The long-term data (50 weeks) provided by the applicant are of  value to assess the durability of the 
effects  observed  on  the  primary  endpoints.  Although  not  statistically  significant  at  24  weeks,  the 
improvement of the 6-minute walk test is further substantiated at 50 weeks in the group that received 
the active drug in both phases (p=0.005). With reference to FVC, however, no further gain in effect 
size is derived from the extension of treatment of patients (24 weeks).   
It  is  possible  that  patients  would  show  an  improvement  in  FVC  and  the  six-minute  walk  during  the 
baseline  phase  as  a  result  of  a  training  effect  rather  than  as  a  result  of  therapy.  To  account  for  a 
potential training effect, baseline measurements for the primary efficacy endpoint were defined as the 
third  and  final  evaluation  performed  during  the  baseline  phase  just  prior  to  randomisation.  Baseline 
rather than current height was used to try and eliminate the confounding effects of postural changes, 
growth, and variability associated with repeat height measurements.  
A primary endpoint, % of predicted FVC values alone might not adequately reflect the obstructive and 
restrictive symptoms of the MPS I patients. When also considering the other parameters (TLC: total 
lung capacity and DL: diffusion capacity), results are far from being statistically significant (p=0.49 
and  p=0.46  respectively).  However,  these  parameters  are  more  likely  to  be  affected  by  skeletal 
involvement of thorax than FVC and would therefore be less sensitive to treatment. 
No  direct  measures  of  the  main  complications  of  the  disease  have  been  evaluated:  mental 
development, neurological and respiratory complications and frequency of intercurrent infections. Due 
to the molecular weight of the drug, distribution within the brain was not expected. To date no clinical 
data exist demonstrating a benefit on the neurological manifestations of the disease. This is reflected 
in the indication proposed, which excludes the neurological manifestations of the disease.  
As already discussed, two of the secondary and tertiary endpoints showed significant results: reduction 
of hepatomegaly and of urinary GAG levels. The other endpoints did not reach statistical significance: 
apnea/hypopnea  index,  disability  index,  joint  range  of  motion,  respiratory  function,  cardiac  function 
pain  scales,  height,  ocular  measures,  quality  of  life  questionnaires  filled  up  either  by  patients  or 
parents/guardians. However, although the mean changes in the Apnea/Hypopnea Index (AHI) (Events 
per hour) were not significantly different between the two treatment groups there was a positive trend 
in  favour  of  Aldurazyme.  A  marginal  improvement  could  also  be  seen  in  joint  ROM  and  cardiac 
function. 
By  observing  significant  effects  on  FVC,  urinary  GAG  levels  and  mean  liver  organ  volume  the 
activity  of  Aldurazyme  has  been  established.  Although  not  statistically  significant  at  24  weeks,  the 
improvement of the 6-minute walk test is further substantiated at 50 weeks. This has to be taken into 
account along with the other parameters reflecting the patients’ functional capacity such as joint ROM, 
which  also  improved  long-term.  In  view  of  the  potential  impact  of  these  improvements  in  terms  of 
daily life, this is considered to be of clinical relevance. Overall, the observed activity of Aldurazyme 
seems to translate into a real clinical benefit for patients suffering from MPS I. 
21/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of concern is a possible differential long-term effect on patients with a most severe phenotype of MPS 
I. Only one patient with Hurler syndrome was included in the clinical programme with Aldurazyme. 
However, this was expected according to the inclusion (age >5 years) and exclusion (BMT) criteria. 
This  patient  progressed  to  a  rapid  deterioration  after  an  initial  improvement.  The  applicant  will 
provide data from an ongoing study with the most severe type of MPS I as part of a post-marketing 
commitment.  The  lack  of  data  in  the  most  severe  patients  has  been  adequately  reflected  in  the  SPC 
(section 5.1). 
Animal  model  studies  have  indicated  a  potential  preventative  effect  on  bone  disease  and 
improvements in liver and spleen enlargement but only partial response in lung involvement. For the 
Hurler patients, the enzyme therapy is therefore expected to be palliative and is expected to improve 
physical  function  but  CNS  disease  may  ultimately  progress.  For  the  Hurler-Scheie  patients,  early 
treatment  from  diagnosis  might  be  expected  to  prevent  the  progressive  organ  storage,  breathing 
difficulties and airway obstruction.  The joint stiffness and contractures may be improved and would 
not likely progress as without treatment.  To the extent that treatment precedes the chronic irreversible 
disease state, the long-term clinical benefit is expected to be greatest in this group of patients. For the 
Scheie  patients,  the  therapy  has  shown  improvement  in  breathing  and  joint  function,  which  are  two 
important physical problems that limit Scheie patients.  Given that these patients have slower disease 
progression,  it  may  be  harder  to  demonstrate  the  benefits  of  treatment  in  the  short-term  in  these 
patients.   
Although  the  clinical  data  from  the  pivotal  clinical  study  and  the  supportive  phase  I/II  study  have 
shown  that  the  recommended  dose  is  efficient  and  safe,  efficacy of  the  dose  regimen  chosen  over  a 
longer time of treatment should be explored. The applicant has committed to perform a clinical study 
post-authorisation to evaluate alternative dosing regimens.  
Although  the  agent  has  been  used  in  combination  with  different  medications,  such  as,  per  protocol, 
antipyretics and antihistamine drugs (in both studies) and coricosteroids in the phase I/II study and the 
frequently  used  concomitant  treatments  like  antibiotics,  potential  drug  interaction  has  not  been 
examined in detail. The applicant addressed the issue of a potential drug interaction with chloroquine 
and other amines through an interference with the delivery of receptor bound enzyme to lysososmes. 
Further,  co-adminstration  of  heparin  and  other  peptides  will  be  looked  at  in  relation  to 
immunogenicity as a post-marketing commitment. These results will be reported as part of the PSURs.  
No  studies  were  performed  with  rhIDU  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  because  of  its 
expected metabolism through peptide hydrolysis. Renal clearance is expected to play a minor part, but 
no  data  have  been  presented  to  correlate  the  excretion  in  patients  with  a  different  degree  of  renal 
impairment.  Further,  impaired  liver  function  is  not  expected  to  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
laronidase in a clinically significant way.  
Further, no data are available in patients below the age of 5 years and above the age of 65 years. The 
pharmacodymanic,  pharmacokinetic  and  immunogenecity  findings  would  have  been  desirable 
stratified according to age, in particular < the age of 5, 5 to 12 years olds, adolescents up to the age of 
18 years and adults over the age of 18 years. The applicant has commited to seek Protocol Assistance 
on  proposals  to  assess  safety  and  efficacy  in  children  less  than  five  years  of  age.  Data  from  the 
ongoing study ALID-014-02 in children below the age of five with the most severe form of MPS I will 
be considered.  
The  variability  of  the  clinical  presentation  in  MPS  I  may  make  it  difficult  to  demonstrate  a  clinical 
benefit in the short term. Longer follow-up of efficacy is needed and special groups need to be studied 
for an accurate assessment of the clinical benefit of Aldurazyme. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall four patients died during the clinical programme with rhIDU, but none was considered related 
to  Aldurazyme  treatment.  No  patients  dropped  out  due  to  a  drug-related  AEs  in  any  of  the  studies 
22/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
performed. In the phase III study, the incidence and types of AEs experienced were similar between 
the placebo and rhIDU groups. 
The  incidence  of  IARs  was  similar  between  the  placebo  and  rhIDU  groups.  The  number  of  these 
reactions decreased with time on treatment. The majority of the IARs were of mild intensity, the most 
common reactions consisted of flushing and headache. However, some IARs were severe and the main 
safety  concern  of  Aldurazyme  is  the  anaphylactoid  reactions  observed.  A  single  patient  with  pre-
existing airway compromise developed a severe reaction three hours from the start of the infusion (at 
week  62  of  treatment)  consisting  of  urticaria  and  airway  obstruction,  requiring  tracheostomy. 
Furthermore, three patients experienced angioedema in the phase I/II study.  
The  hypersensitivity  reactions  that  occurred  during  the  phase I/II  study  were  managed  by 
administration  of  antihistamines  and/or  corticosteroids,  reduction  of  infusion  rates,  or  temporarily 
reducing  study  drug  dosage.  In  the  phase  III  study,  infusion  associated  reactions  were  usually 
infusion  and  administration  of  antihistamines.  Appropriate 
managed  by  decreasing 
recommendations have been included in the SPC. Patients treated with Aldurazyme should be closely 
monitored  and  all  cases  of 
infusion-associated  reactions,  delayed  reactions  and  possible 
immunological reactions reported. Antibody status should be regularly monitored and reported. 
the 
The difference in the safety profiles reported for the two studies, with the phase I/II study having the 
worst  safety  profile,  has  been  attributed  to  the  increased  purity  of  rhIDU  manufactured  by  the 
proposed commercial process, which was implemented prior to the initiation of the phase III trial.  
Almost  all  patients  treated  with  rhIDU  developed  protein  specific  IgG  antibodies.  The  presence  of 
antibodies  appears  not  to  be  related  to  the  incidence  of  IARs.  However,  due  to  the  rarity  of  the 
condition and the limited experience to date, the effect of antibody formation on safety and efficacy is 
currently not fully established. Patients who have developed antibodies or symptoms of IARs should 
be treated with caution when administering laronidase. Aldurazyme treatment should be supervised by 
a  physician  experienced  in  the  management  of  patients  with  MPS  I  or  other  inherited  metabolic 
diseases. Administration of Aldurazyme should be carried out in an appropriate clinical setting where 
resuscitation equipment to manage medical emergencies would be readily available. 
It is of concern that the patients enrolled in the studies were not suffering from the most severe form of 
MPS  I. The  clinical development of  rhIDU has targeted  the  Hurler-Scheie and Scheie patients,  only 
one patient with Hurler syndrome has received laronidase, whereas Hurler is the most critical status to 
be  dealt  with  in  clinical  practice  (most  severe  and  early  alterations).  After  an  initial  benefit  the 
condition  of  this  patient  with  the  most  severe  phenotype  of  MPS  I  deteriorated.  Therefore,  it  is 
arguable  that  efficacy  and  safety  has  only  been  demonstrated  in  a  population  affected  by  the  less 
severe forms of the disease. The lack of data in the most severe type of the disease has been reflected 
by section 5.1 of the SPC. However, the applicant will provide data from an ongoing study in patients 
with the most severe type of MPS I as part of a post-marketing commitment. 
Longer follow-up of safety is needed and special patient groups need to be studied before an accurate 
assessment of the clinical benefit of Aldurazyme can be made.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
Apart from a number of points, which can all be addressed as part of post-authorisation commitments, 
the quality of Aldurazyme is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications.  
23/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  limited  programme  of  primary  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies,  some  in 
animal models of MPS I, provided adequate evidence for efficacy of laronidase.  
It can be concluded that the package of toxicity data as a whole suffices for this compound, provided 
that careful clinical observations are made and undertakings fulfilled post-marketing. The preclinical 
findings of potential serious clinical concern relate to immune reactions, anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity 
and  the  development  of  antibodies  (see  pre-clinical  and  clinical  discussion).  This  has  been 
appropriately considered in the SPC.  
No  genotoxicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  with  Aldurazyme,  which  is  considered 
acceptable on the basis of the nature of the product. 
Animal  studies  do  not  indicate  direct  or  indirect  harmful  effects  on  pregnancy,  embryonal/foetal 
development,  parturition  and  postnatal  development.  However,  the  potential  risk  for  humans  is 
unknown  and  this  has  been  reflected  in  the  SPC.  Aldurazyme  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy 
unless clearly necessary and it is recommended to stop breast-feeding during Aldurazyme treatment. 
Efficacy 
The  results  from  clinical  studies  support  the  use  of  laronidase  in  the  approved  indication  long-term 
treatment  of  MPS  I  to  treat  the  non-neurological  manifestations  of  the  disease.  The  phase  I/II-  and 
phase  III  studies  provided  adequate  and  consistent  evidence  to  support  the  efficacy  of  Aldurazyme 
based on the results on FVC, reduction in liver and spleen and reduction in urinary GAG levels (see 
clinical  discussion).  The  indication  for  which  the  medical  product  in  question  is  intended  is 
encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to provide more comprehensive 
evidence/data on the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product in larger numbers and over a longer 
term at this time.  
Safety 
Safety data show a relatively mild adverse event profile and reasonable tolerability to Aldurazyme.  
While adverse events were common, particularly infusion associated reactions, serious adverse events 
including  death  attributable  to  Aldurazyme  were  uncommon.  Four  patients  died  during  the  clinical 
programme for rhIDU, but none was considered related to Aldurazyme treatment.   
The  main  safety  concern  of  Aldurazyme  is  the  anaphylactoid  reactions  observed  (see  discussion  on 
clinical  safety).  Appropriate  recommendations  have  been  included  in  the  SPC  on  pre-treatment  and 
management of patients in case of a hypersensitivity reaction.  
The  infusion-associated  reactions  can  be  potentially  severe  and  anti-laronidase  antibody  formation 
gives rise to concern and should be paid special attention in post-authorisation studies. The period of 
laronidase treatment in the clinical trials does not reflect the life-long treatment necessary for patients 
with MPS I. Since the indication for which Aldurazyme is intended is very rare, the number of patients 
who  have  received  laronidase  is  small,  and  thus  the  safety  database  is  not  as  large  as  is  usually  the 
case for new medicinal products. However, since the structure of laronidase is similar to the enzyme 
produced naturally in humans, laronidase is not likely to cause unexpected adverse events.  
In  order  to  collect  additional  long-term  data,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  complete  an  extensive 
programme  of  clinical  studies  post-authorisation,  the  results  of  which  shall  form  the  basis  of  the 
annual  reassessment  of  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  implement  a  MPS  I 
registry  programme,  which  will  collect  long  term  safety  and  efficacy  data  in  patients  treated  with 
Aldurazyme as well as data on the natural progression of the disease in patients not on treatment.   
Benefit/risk assessment 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  supplementary  documentation  provided  by  the  applicant,  it  was 
concluded that further data was needed to support the safety and efficacy of the product. Although the 
majority of these questions could be addressed by the applicant as post-authorisation commitments, a 
number of key issues were identified that needed further discussion at a CPMP ad hoc Expert meeting 
on clinical aspects of Aldurazyme treatment.  
24/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The conclusions from the Experts were: 
The  expert  group  was  of  the  view  that  Hurler´s  syndrome,  Hurler-Scheie  and  Scheie´s  syndrome 
represent a continuum rather than separate well-defined entities. Aldurazyme should be indicated for 
“long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of MPS I to treat non-
neurological manifestations of the disease (see section 5.1).” Section 5.1 should include the outcome 
of the clinical studies performed and should further include a statement that no data are available in 
the most severe form of MPS I.  
The  group  considered  that  the  endpoints  studied  were  appropriate  and  that,  although  small,  the 
demonstrated  efficacy  was  clinically  relevant,  especially  in  the  light  of  the  absence  of  alternative 
therapies.  The  efficacy  shown  was  considered  sufficient  for  Marketing  Authorisation  provided  that 
appropriate commitments were made. 
The experts considered that an overall positive benefit-risk ratio had been established for Aldurazyme. 
However, there was concern regarding the severe infusion reactions reported, including the need for 
tracheostomy  in  one  case.  It  was  agreed  that  prescribers  should  be  advised  to  use  appropriate 
premedication  i.e.  anti-histamines  and  antipyrectics  and  that  administration  of  Aldurazyme  should 
only  be  carried  out  in  hospitals  where  resuscitation  equipment  would  be  readily  available.  Advice 
should also be given in relation to slowing the rate of infusion or discontinuing it in the event of an 
infusion related reaction. 
The experts were of the view that prescribers should initiate treatment in patients corresponding to the 
proposed  target  population  on  the  basis  of  the  clinical  diagnosis,  confirmation  of  enzymatic 
deficiency. They also suggested a statement in section 4.2 of the SPC that no safety and efficacy data 
are  available  in  children  below  the  age  of  5  years  and  no  dosage  regimen  can  presently  be 
recommended in these patients, which would alert the treating physicians about the lack of prescribing 
information in that group. 
The expert group considered that there is no further need to investigate the correlation between urinary 
and tissue GAG levels. The group accepted the position of the Applicant that invasive biopsies are not 
feasible  given  difficulties  with  anaesthesia  in  these  patients.  There  also  appears  to  be  a  variation  in 
tissue GAG levels between different tissues from the same patient, which makes extrapolations from 
one particular sample difficult. Further, experience with bone marrow transplantation has shown such 
a correlation.  
The  group  encouraged  the  carrying  out  of  further  genotyping  as  often  as  considered  appropriate  but 
was of the view that this should be regarded as a recommendation and not be made mandatory. 
The  group  considered  that  it  would  be  useful  to  further  investigate  a  possible  genotype  versus 
treatment/response relationship. The Applicant’s proposal to address this issue in a clinical trial of the 
severe form of MPS I was considered appropriate. 
Further,  the  Applicant  should  commit  to  provide  data  on  long-term  safety  from  the  clinical  studies, 
which are ongoing. The Applicant should also monitor patients treated with Aldurazyme and report all 
infusion reactions and all cases of possible immunogenic reactions. In those patients where treatment 
with  Aldurazyme  is  discontinued  for  weeks/months,  the  effects  of  stopping  and  restarting  treatment 
should be carefully investigated with reference to safety (incidence of allergic reactions) and antibody 
formation.  The  potential  influence  of  antibody  formation  on  the  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  of 
Aldurazyme is unknown but remains a concern and should be investigated as part of all ongoing and 
future clinical studies.  
In  the  light  of  the  outcome  of  the  ad  hoc  expert  meeting,  the  CPMP  considered  that  there  was  no 
longer any need for the applicant to address outstanding issues during an oral explanation before the 
CPMP.  
Following the review of the submitted documentation, and the final SPC and letter of undertaking, and 
after taking into account the advice from the expert meeting, the CPMP agreed that Aldurazyme has 
25/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shown  efficacy  in  patients  with  MPS  I  that  is  encouraging  and  may  be  clinically  relevant  and  that 
allows a conclusion on an acceptable benefit/risk despite the limited efficacy and safety data available. 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Aldurazyme  will  be  granted  under 
exceptional circumstances, subject to fulfilling the clinical and quality follow-up measures and clinical 
specific  obligations  undertaken  by  the  applicant.  The  indication  for  which  the  medicinal  product  in 
question  is  intended  is  encountered  so  rarely  that  the  applicant  cannot  reasonably  be  expected  to 
provide more data on the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product at this time. In order to collect 
additional data, the  applicant has committed to  complete an extensive programme of clinical studies 
post-authorisation  within  pre-specified  time  frames,  the  results  of  which  shall  form  the  basis  of  an 
annual re-assessment of the benefit/risk profile: 
Clinical aspects: 
- 
- 
- 
In order to determine whether children less than five years of age will benefit from treatment, 
the  applicant  will  seek  Protocol  Assistance  within  a  pre-defined  time  frame  on  proposals  to 
assess safety and efficacy in this population.  
The  applicant  will  seek  Protocol  Assistance  within  a  pre-defined  time  frame  to  discuss  the 
performance  of  a  clinical  study  to  investigate  alternative  dosing  regimens  (including 
maintenance dose).  
The applicant commits to complete the implementation of a MPS I registry programme. Patients 
treated with Aldurazyme will be monitored and all reported infusion reactions and all cases of 
possible  immunological  reactions  as  well  as  data  on  antibody  formation  specifically  reported 
included in the PSURs. 
Further, the applicant commits to extend the ongoing Open Label Extension study (ALID-006-
01) for a total of 4 years.   
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Aldurazyme,  for  use  as  long-term  enzyme  replacement 
therapy  in  patients  with  a  confirmed  diagnosis  of  Mucopolysaccharidosis  I  (MPS  I;  α-L-iduronidase 
deficiency)  to treat the  non-neurological  manifestations  of  the  disease,  was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
26/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
