EMA/741937/2015  
EMEA/H/C/000477 
EPAR summary for the public 
Aldurazyme  
laronidase  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Aldurazyme. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Aldurazyme. 
What is Aldurazyme? 
Aldurazyme is a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein that contains the active substance laronidase. 
What is Aldurazyme used for? 
Aldurazyme is used in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I; α L 
iduronidase deficiency) to treat the non-neurological symptoms of the disease (symptoms that are not 
connected with the brain or nerves). MPS I is a rare, inherited disease, in which the level of α L 
iduronidase enzyme activity is much lower than normal. This means that substances called 
glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are not broken down, so they build up in most of the organs in the body 
and damage them. The non-neurological symptoms of MPS I can be an enlarged liver, stiff joints that 
make moving more difficult, reduced lung volume, heart disease and eye disease. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Aldurazyme used? 
Aldurazyme treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has experience in the management of 
patients with MPS I or other inherited metabolic diseases. Aldurazyme should be given in a hospital or 
clinic where resuscitation equipment is available, and patients may need to receive some medicines 
before the infusion to prevent an allergic reaction. Aldurazyme is given once a week as an infusion into 
a vein. It is intended for long-term use. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Aldurazyme work? 
The active substance in Aldurazyme, laronidase, is a copy of the human enzyme α L iduronidase. It is 
produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: the enzyme is made by cells into 
which a gene (DNA) has been introduced that makes them able to produce laronidase. Laronidase is 
used as ‘enzyme replacement therapy’, which means that it replaces the enzyme that is missing in 
patients with MPS I. This controls the symptoms of MPS I, improving the patient’s quality of life. 
How has Aldurazyme been studied? 
Aldurazyme has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 45 patients aged six years and 
over with a confirmed diagnosis of MPS I. The main measure of effectiveness was the forced vital 
capacity (FVC, a measure of how well the lungs are working) and the distance the patients could walk 
over six minutes. These were measured before and after 26 weeks of treatment. After this, the study 
continued for up to four years and all of the patients were treated with Aldurazyme. 
Aldurazyme has also been studied in 20 children below the age of five years who received Aldurazyme 
for a year. The study was looking mainly at the safety of the medicine, but it also measured its ability 
to reduce the levels of GAGs in the urine and the size of the liver. 
What benefit has Aldurazyme shown during the studies? 
The study showed that Aldurazyme had improved both the FVC and the walking ability of patients at 
26 weeks. This effect was maintained for up to four years. 
In children under five years of age, Aldurazyme reduced the levels of GAGs in the urine by about 60%. 
Half of the children treated had a normal size liver at the end of the study. 
What is the risk associated with Aldurazyme? 
Most of the side effects seen with Aldurazyme are reactions caused by the infusion procedure rather 
than the medicine itself. Some of these are severe, but the number of side effects tends to decrease 
with time. The most common side effects in patients over the age of five years (seen in more than 1 
patient in 10) are headache, nausea (feeling sick), abdominal pain (stomach ache), rash, arthropathy 
(damage to the joints), arthralgia (joint pain), back pain, pain in the extremities (hands and feet), 
flushing, pyrexia (fever) and reactions at the site of the infusion. In patients under five years of age, 
the most common side effects (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are increased blood pressure, 
decreased oxygen saturation (a measure of how well the lungs are working), tachycardia (rapid heart 
rate), pyrexia and chills. For the full list of all side effects reported with Aldurazyme, see the package 
leaflet. 
Almost all patients who receive Aldurazyme develop antibodies (proteins that are produced in response 
to Aldurazyme). The effect of these on the safety and effectiveness of the medicine is not fully known. 
Aldurazyme must not be used in people who are severely allergic to laronidase or any of the other 
ingredients. 
Aldurazyme  
EMA/741937/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why has Aldurazyme been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Aldurazyme gives effective control of the symptoms of MPS I. The Committee 
decided that Aldurazyme’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that Aldurazyme be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Aldurazyme was originally authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’, because, as the disease is 
rare, limited information was available at the time of approval. As the company had supplied the 
additional information requested, the ‘exceptional circumstances’ ended on 16 December 2015. 
Other information about Aldurazyme 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Aldurazyme on 10 June 2003.  
The full EPAR for Aldurazyme can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Aldurazyme, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015.  
Aldurazyme  
EMA/741937/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
