30 January 2020 
EMA/327983/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): alectinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010581/201907 
Period covered by the PSUR: 03/01/2019 To: 03/07/2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for alectinib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Following the evaluation of the cumulative review and detailed analysis of GI perforation, ulceration, 
haemorrhage or obstruction cases, there were 17 AEs identified for alectinib in 14 patients from clinical 
trials and further 73 cases from post-marketing were identified within the company safety database. In 
all of them some risk factor was present, mostly some concomitant disease (such as diverticulitis, 
appendicitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, metastases to intestine or ileus of intestine) or concomitantly 
used medications (such as bevacizumab, opioids, dexamethasone or other/unspecified corticosteroids).  
The results from toxicology studies, in monkeys treated with alectinib, a dilatation of the large intestine 
was seen, and a decreased stool, no-faeces, and retention of GI contents were seen in both rats and 
monkeys at 60 mg/kg/day and were accompanied by very slight erosions/ulcers in the stomach, 
duodenum, caecum and colon. 
The risk of GI perforation is currently not present in the SmPC for alectinib.  The SmPC for crizotinib 
which also belongs to the ALK inhibitor class includes the GI perforation in sections 4.4 and 4.8.  
The retrieved cases of GI perforation do not provide a clear causal association with alectinib treatment. 
However, considering the results from toxicology studies in monkeys and rats, the seriousness of the 
events of GI perforation which might lead to death and the importance of early recognition and prompt 
medical intervention, it is considered that the product information of alectinib should include the warning 
on possible risk of gastrointestinal perforation in patients who are at higher risk of development of such 
condition and recommended actions in the section 4.4 of SmPC and in the corresponding part of the 
Package leaflet. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for alectinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing alectinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/327983/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
