SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Alimta. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
Introduction 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Malignant mesothelioma is a rare tumour affecting mesodermal tissue and whose origin has generally 
been  linked  to  asbestos  exposure.  The  incidence  of  malignant  pleural  mesothelioma  has  increased 
steadily  since  the  1950s  and  coincides  with  both  the  widespread  industrial  use  of  asbestos  in 
developed countries and with a highly increased incidence of pleural mesothelioma in men, in Canada 
[1], the United Kingdom [2], and the United States [3]. Before this time, the incidence was similar in 
men  and  women  [2].  In  addition,  asbestos  exposure  occurs  environmentally  in  certain  regions  of 
Turkey, where it is used extensively in building materials [4]. In Turkey, the disease tends to be more 
equally distributed by gender. 
Pleural mesothelioma usually becomes clinically evident by symptoms such as dyspnoea or chest pain 
from  the  pleura,  chest  wall,  or  mediastinum.  At  the  time  such  symptoms  occur,  the  disease  is  often 
locally  advanced.  The  most  common  sites  of  origin  are  the  pleura,  accounting  for  80%  of  cases, 
followed by peritoneum, pericardium, and tunica vaginalis testis [5]. Survival of untreated patients is 
poor, with a median survival time ranging from 6 to 8 months, though the range may be much wider, 
depending  on  the  characteristics  and  selection  of  the  population  of  mesothelioma  patients  [6].  A 
number  of  factors,  including  histological  subtype  (epithelial  origin  as  a  good  prognostic  factor), 
performance  status,  disease  extent  at  baseline,  presence  of  chest  pain,  gender,  and  white  blood  cell 
count (WBC), among others, have been suggested as predictors of outcome [7, 8].  
Neither surgery nor radiotherapy generally results in increased survival [6]. At the time of submission 
of  the  marketing  authorization  application  for  Alimta,  no  approved  systemic  therapy  existed  for 
malignant pleural mesothelioma. In single agent Phase 2 studies response rates seldom exceed 20% [9-
18]. Single-arm Phase 2 studies of different combination regimens have demonstrated large variations 
in response rates [19]. Randomized studies have shown that systemic combination therapy results in 
somewhat  higher  response  rates  than  single  agent  therapy.  No  significant  differences  in  survival, 
however, have been observed [20, 21]. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Lung cancer is one of the most common malignancies and continues to rise in incidence. One million 
new  cases  and  over  900,000  lung  cancer-related  deaths  are  reported  each  year  worldwide.  It  is  the 
leading cause of cancer death in men and the third leading cause in women [22]. Almost 80% of lung 
cancers are classified as non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with 65% to 75% of cases presenting as 
locally advanced (stage III) or metastatic disease (stage IV) [23-25]. 
Inoperable  patients  diagnosed  with  stage  III  NSCLC  generally  receive  chemotherapy  as  part  of 
standard multimodality treatment. stage IIIb and IV patients typically receive chemotherapy alone as 
first-line therapy. The consensus of chemotherapy in these patients is a platinum-containing regimen.  
However,  the  median  survival  in  first-line  therapy  is  approximately  7.9  months,  with  a  12-month 
median survival proportion of 33% [26]. 
Approximately half  of  the patients  treated  with  a  first-line  combination  regimen  will  receive  single-
agent  chemotherapy  as  second-line  treatment.  Several  chemotherapeutic  agents  were  evaluated  in 
phase 2 trials in the second-line setting. Tumour response rates vary from study-to-study.  New agents, 
such  as  gemcitabine,  showed  tumour  response  rates  ranging  from  0  to  21%  [27],  while  paclitaxel 
showed  a  tumour  response  rate  ranging  from  0  to  25%  depending  on  various  doses,  schedules,  and 
patient characteristics [21, 28].  Docetaxel has the largest Phase 2 and Phase 3 experience as a single-
agent in second-line NSCLC. In different Phase 2 trials, single-agent docetaxel was given as second-
line  treatment  to  215  patients,  and  tumour  response  rate  ranged  from  10%  to  25%  with  a  median 
survival time from 7.0 to 9.7 months [27]. 
1/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Two randomized Phase 3 studies of docetaxel were completed.  The first trial compared docetaxel 100 
mg/m2 or 75 mg/m2 with best supportive care (BSC) [29]. Five deaths in the first 49 enrolled patients 
in  the  100  mg/m2  arm  led  to  discontinuation  of  this  treatment  arm.    In  the  75  mg/m2  arm  docetaxel 
arm, 7% of the patients had a partial response, with a median survival time of 7.5 months compared 
with a median survival time of 4.6 months for the patients in the BSC arm (log rank, P=0.010).  The 
second  trial  compared  docetaxel  with  vinorelbine  or  ifosfamide  [30].    A  total  of  373  patients  were 
randomly assigned to receive docetaxel 100 mg/m2 or 75 mg/m2 compared with a control regimen of 
vinorelbine or ifosfamide.  The overall response rate was 10.8% with 100 mg/m2 docetaxel and 6.7% 
with  75 mg/m2  docetaxel.  These  response  rates  were  each  significantly  higher  than  treatment  with 
vinorelbine  or  ifosfamide  (0.8%).  The  1-year  survival  rate  in  the  docetaxel  arm  was  significantly 
better at 32% compared with 19% in the ifosfamide/vinorelbine arm.  However, overall survival time 
was not significantly different among the groups. 
About the product 
Pemetrexed  disodium  (pemetrexed,  also  referred  to  during  the  development  as  LY231514, 
multitargeted  antifolate,  MTA,  or  Alimta),  is  a  novel  pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine-based  folic  acid 
analogue (temporary ATC code: L01BA04). In in vitro studies, pemetrexed inhibited multiple folate-
dependent  enzymes  (thymidylate  synthase,  dihydrofolate  reductase,  and  glycinamide  ribonucleotide 
formyltransferase)  crucial  in  the  de  novo  biosynthesis  of  thymidine  and  purine  nucleotides.  Once 
transported  into  cells,  pemetrexed  is  rapidly  polyglutamated  by  folylpolyglutamate  synthetase,  a 
process that appears to occur more readily in tumour cells than in normal cells. Polyglutamate forms 
of pemetrexed are retained longer in cells and are more potent inhibitors of thymidylate synthase and 
glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase than the base compound.  
1. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Alimta is presented as a sterile single use powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. Each vial 
contains 500 mg of pemetrexed as pemetrexed disodium. It must be reconstituted with 20 ml sodium 
chloride  9 mg/ml  (0.9 %)  solution  for  injection  without  preservative.  The  appropriate  volume  of 
required dose is removed from the vial and further diluted to 100 ml with the same diluent. 
The  other  ingredients  include  mannitol,  hydrochloric  acid,  sodium  hydroxide,  and  nitrogen,  low-
oxygen.  
Alimta is packed in type I clear glass vial closed with a rubber stopper and an aluminium seal with 
flip-cap. 
Active substance 
Pemetrexed,  N-[4-[2-(2-amino-4,7-dihydro-4-oxo-1H-pyrrolo  [2,3-d]  pyrimidin-5-yl)  ethyl]benzoyl]-
L-glutamic acid disodium salt, is a white to almost white freely water soluble solid. It contains a single 
chiral centre, and is synthesised as the single L-isomer. 
 Two crystalline hydrate forms of pemetrexed have been identified. 
Stress  stability  studies  have  shown  that  the  two  main  degradation  pathways  for  pemetrexed  in  solid 
state and in solution are oxidation and hydrolysis. 
• 
Manufacture 
Pemetrexed  is  synthesised  from  commercially  available  starting  materials.  The  starting  material 
introducing the active substance chiral centre is controlled for chirality and adequate conditions for the 
subsequent steps have been set up in order to avoid racemization. Satisfactory in process controls and 
controls  on  key  intermediates  have  been  established  in  order  to  ensure  production  of  an  active 
substance of consistent quality.  
2/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  include  tests  for  appearance,  identity,  assay,  impurities,  chiral 
purity,  residual  solvents,  heavy  metals,  bacterial  endotoxins  (PhEur),  total  aerobic  microbial  count 
(PhEur),  mold-yeast  count  (PhEur),  water  content,  pH,  colour  of  solution  (PhEur)  and  clarity  of 
solution (PhEur). 
The hydrate form is controlled by water control determination. The formation of the desired isomer of 
pemetrexed is ensured through chirality control of the key starting material and through the route of 
synthesis. Moreover, there is a specific limit for the D-isomer. 
The specification limits have been adequately justified based on the physico chemical properties of the 
drug substance and based on batch analysis and stability data of pemetrexed lots used in non-clinical 
and clinical studies. The analytical methods used in routine controls have been suitably described and 
validated. 
Batch analysis data provided for 5 full-scale batches confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity 
with the proposed specifications. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  full-scale  primary  stability  batches  synthesised  at  the 
commercial  sites.  Under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH  –  commercial  packaging)  and  long-
term  conditions  (25°C/60%%  RH    -  commercial  packaging),  respectively  6-month  and  3-year  data 
have  been  provided.  The  photostability  study  performed  did  not  show  any  significant  change  in  the 
main stability indicating parameters.  
A  retest  period  of  36  months  is  supported  by  the  presented  data  when  pemetrexed  is  stored  in  the 
commercial packaging 
Product development and finished product 
A dry powder formulation has been chosen. The pH of the in-process solution was selected based on 
solubility and stability data. Pemetrexed water solubility is greater than 90 mg/ml at 20°C in pH range 
of 6.0-10.0. 
All the excipients selected are of PhEur quality. Mannitol is present in the formulation as a bulking 
agent to produce an elegant lyophilisate. Compatibility and acceptability for its use in the drug product 
has been satisfactorily demonstrated. The pemetrexed filling overage included to compensate vial and 
syringe retentions is suitable to allow withdrawal and delivery of the labeled dose. Regarding the TSE 
risk, Alimta does not contain any component of ruminant origin. 
The  type  I  glass  vials  and  the  rubber  stopper  used  as  primary  packaging  material,  as  well  as  the 
dimethicone  used  to  treat  the  stoppers,  meet  the  PhEur  requirements.  Before  reconstitution,  no 
incompatibility  between  the  stopper  and  the  finished  product  has  been  reported  during  stability 
studies.  After  reconstitution,  compatibility  of  the  stopper  with  the  finished  product  has  been 
satisfactorily addressed from primary stability studies (vials stored in upright and inverted positions).  
In addition, development studies have evaluated potential extractable from the stopper.  
Compatibility  of  pemetrexed  with  common  i.v.  solutions,  i.v.  bags  and  administration  sets  has  been 
evaluated. The drug product is compatible with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection 
without  preservative,  but  it  is  incompatible  with  diluents  containing  calcium  including  Ringer’s 
Injection  or  Lactated  Ringer’s  Injection.  The  drug  product  reconstituted  and  further  diluted  with 
sodium  chloride  9 mg/ml  (0.9 %)  solution  for  injection  without  preservative  is  compatible  with 
polyvinyl chloride and polyolefin lined administration sets and infusion bags. 
The rationale for a sterile filtration followed by an aseptic process has been satisfactorily discussed; 
the product is sensitive to terminal sterilisation methods.  
The manufacturing process was developed to minimize oxidative degradation by reducing exposure of 
pemetrexed solution to oxygen and upon completion of lyophilization cycle the vacuum is neutralized 
with sterile filtered nitrogen thus controlling the oxygen level in the drug product vial headspace. 
3/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Different  variants  of  a  terminally  sterilised  solution  formulation  and  of  the  dry  powder  formulation 
have been used in clinical trials.  They can be all considered as bioequivalent. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process involves the following operations: preparation of the bulk solution, sterile 
filtration, aseptic filling in vials, lyophilization, stoppering and sealing.  
Satisfactory in-process controls and holding times/conditions for specific phases of the process have 
been defined in order to ensure control of the microbiological, chemical and physical attributes of the 
product. 
Process  validation  data  have  been  provided  for  three  full-scale  consecutive  batches  manufactured  at 
the proposed commercial manufacturing site.  
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identity, 
assay,  impurity  content,  uniformity  of  mass  (PhEur),  particulate  matter  (PhEur),  pH  (PhEur),  water 
content, reconstitution time, colour of solution (PhEur), clarity of solution  (PhEur), oxygen headspace 
content, sterility (PhEur) and bacterial endotoxins (PhEur). 
Batch analysis data provided for one full-scale batch and four half-scale batches manufactured at the 
proposed  commercial  manufacturing  site  comply  with  the  specifications  and  indicate  consistent  and 
reproducible manufacture.  
Stability of the product 
Stability  of  the  Product  before  reconstitution:  Stability  data  under  long-term  (25°C/60%RH  - 
packaging  intended  for  commercialisation)  and  accelerated  conditions  (40ºC/75%RH  –  packaging 
intended for commercialisation) have been provided for three primary stability batches manufactured 
at  the  commercial  manufacturing  site.  Supporting  stability  studies  have  been  provided  for  seven 
batches under long term and under accelerated conditions. Samples have also been stored under stress 
conditions (excessive heat and humidity, temperature cycling). Photostability studies have shown that 
the  drug  product  is  non-light  sensitive.  The  results  presented  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  and 
storage conditions defined in the SPC. 
Stability of the reconstituted solution and of the diluted infusion solution: Reconstituted pemetrexed 
solutions  and  diluted  infusion  solutions  have  been  examined  for  chemical,  physical,  and 
microbiological  stability,  including  photostability  and  in-use  compatibility.  The  results  presented 
support the proposed reconstitution recommendation and storage conditions defined in the SPC. 
• 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  drug  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  drug  substance  synthesis  process  as 
well as the pharmaceutical development has been designed in order to minimize oxidation degradation 
to which pemetrexed is susceptible. The pharmaceutical form selected is adequate taking into account 
the  properties  and  stability  of  pemetrexed.  The  excipients  are  commonly  used  in  this  kind  of 
formulation  and  the  packaging  is  well  documented.  The  manufacturing  process  was  developed  and 
optimized to obtain reproducible finished product batches. Stability tests under ICH conditions support 
the proposed shelf life, storage conditions defined in the SPC. At the time of the CHMP opinion there 
were  some  minor  unresolved  quality  issues  which  had  no  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The 
applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up  measures  within  an  agreed 
timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of this additional information. 
4/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
The  pivotal  toxicology  and  toxicokinetic  studies,  as  well  as  the  safety  pharmacology  studies  were 
performed in accordance with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations. Other pharmacodynamic 
and pharmacokinetic studies do not fall under these regulations. Applicable International Conference 
on Harmonization (ICH) and EMEA guidance documents were referred to during the development of 
the compound. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
The  activity  of  pemetrexed  against  a  broad  range  of  human  tumours  was  evaluated  in  two  separate 
colony-forming  assays.  In  the  first,  dose-dependent  responses  were  observed,  including  in  tumour 
types  generally  considered  to  be  chemoresistant.  The  activity  of  pemetrexed  was  similar  to  that  of 
other agents evaluated concurrently (cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, irinotecan, and paclitaxel) and was not 
completely cross-resistant with that of the other agents tested [31]. The applicant presented the results 
of a second test using a panel of 71 specimens of slightly different tumour spectrum from the first test. 
At 10 µg/ml, responding tumour types included colon cancer at 21% (3/14), NSCLC at 57% (8/14), 
breast  cancer  at  47%  (7/15),  and  ovarian  cancer  at  18%  (3/17).  Cisplatin  and  paclitaxel-resistant 
mesothelioma and NSCLC were sensitive to pemetrexed. 
The activity of pemetrexed against a diverse group of tumour cell lines was tested in 72-hour growth 
inhibition studies using media that typically contained 1 to 3 µM of folic acid. The IC50 values were 
found to range from 4 to 220 nM [32-38]. Similar results were reported using a panel of unselected 
colorectal carcinoma cell lines [39]. 
According to a study conducted by the applicant, tumour growth inhibition was demonstrated against 
breast,  pancreas,  lung,  and  colon  tumour  xenografts  in  mice  following  10  daily  treatments  by 
pemetrexed  at  300  mg/kg,  the  MTD  for  this  dosing  schedule  in  these  animals.  Intraperitoneal 
treatment  of  a  colorectal  carcinoma  xenograft  in  CD1  nude  mice  resulted  in  >70%  tumour  growth 
inhibition  measured  5  days  after  the  end  of  treatment  and  about  17  days  tumour  growth  delay, 
compared to vehicle-treated control mice [34]. 
Against  established  tumours,  the  activity  of  pemetrexed  was  minimal  at  doses  below  200 mg/kg, 
especially  when  given  less  frequently  than  ten  daily  injections.  No  antitumour  effect  was  observed 
when  three daily  intraperitoneal  injections  of  pemetrexed  at  100 mg/kg  were  administered  to  mice 
bearing  HT-29  colorectal  carcinoma  xenograft  of  about  300 mg  size  [40].  In  contrast,  antitumor 
activity could be demonstrated when mice were only given two biweekly intraperitoneal injections of 
pemetrexed at 500 mg/kg when tumours became palpable (~19 mm3)[41].  
The high circulatory levels of folate and thymidine in murine plasma, which are about 10 and 5 times, 
respectively, greater than those found in human plasma, can adversely affect the activity of antifolate 
compounds [34, 35, 42]. Mice fed a low folate diet were also much more sensitive to the toxic effects 
of pemetrexed, with the MTD being 60- to 250-fold (depending on mouse strain) less than that in mice 
maintained on a normal (high-folate) diet [35, 42]. In mice on a low-folate diet, the authors found that 
dietary  folic  acid  protected  mice  from  toxicity  without  negative  influence  on  the  efficacy  of 
pemetrexed [35]. 
Pharmacodynamic mechanisms 
Pemetrexed is a structural analogue of folic acid and uses the same biochemical machinery as natural 
folates  for  membrane  transport  and  intracellular  polyglutamation.  Similar  to  the  natural  folates, 
polyglutamated forms of pemetrexed are better retained in the cell and have higher affinity than parent 
compound  for  certain  folate-dependent  enzymes.  Inhibition  of  several  of  these  enzymes  by 
pemetrexed and its polyglutamates causes depletion of nucleotide pools that is associated with growth 
inhibition and possibly cell death.  
5/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
Uptake 
The uptake of natural folates into the cell is known to involve several protein carriers, including the 
reduced folate carrier (RFC), membrane folate binding protein (FBP, also known as folate receptor).  
RFC is believed to be the major route by which folates and many antifolates gained entry into the cell 
[32].  Pemetrexed  interacted  equally  well  with  RFC  and  FBP  compared  to  their  respective  cognate 
folates.  However,  because  of  better  transport  efficiency,  RFC  is  likely  to  be  the  main  carrier  for 
pemetrexed, as in the case for natural folates. [32]. Studies on the uptake of pemetrexed in NCI-H28 
mesothelioma  line  inferred  the  existence  of  an  additional  novel  transport  system  that  was  different 
from  both  RFC  and  FBP.  The  prevalence  and  significance  of  this  transport  system  are  being 
investigated  [43].  The  relative  importance  of  ATP-dependent  transporters  and  RFC  in  affecting 
pemetrexed sensitivity is also being investigated [44]. 
• 
Polyglutamation 
RFC is a bidirectional carrier with substrate specificity mainly for the parent compounds of folates and 
antifolates  that  contain  a  single  glutamyl  residue.  Thus,  folates  and  certain  antifolates  that  can  be 
polyglutamated by folylpolyglutamate synthetase (FPGS) are trapped inside the cell. The rate constant 
(Vm/Km) for pemetrexed in the FPGS catalyzed reaction is about 100 to 400 times greater than for 
methotrexate [45, 46]. When L1210 murine leukemia cells with functional FPGS were exposed to 1 
µM radiolabeled pemetrexed or methotrexate for 2 hours, intracellular radiolabeled compounds were 
more than two times higher for pemetrexed than for methotrexate [46]. 
Apart  from  dihydrofolate  reductase  (DHFR),  polyglutamated  forms  of  pemetrexed  were  bound 
significantly more tightly by thymidylate synthase (TS), glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase 
(GARFT),  and  aminoimidazocarboxamide  formyltransferase  (AICARFT)  [33,  47].  Pemetrexed 
polyglutamates  were  an  efficient  substrate  for  the  lysosomal  enzyme,  γ-glutamyl  hydrolase  (GGH), 
and  were  slightly  better  substrates  than  the  corresponding  polyglutamates  of  methotrexate  [48]. 
Pemetrexed  and  its  polyglutamated  metabolites  were  found  to  be  competitive  inhibitors  of  multiple 
folate dependent enzymes, including TS, DHFR, GARFT, and, additionally, AICARFT, with respect 
to the folate cofactor [33].  
• 
Effects of natural folate cofactors 
The total intracellular folate concentrations and polyglutamation are key factors affecting the potency 
of  an  antifolate.  The  sensitivity  of  pemetrexed  followed  an  inverse  relationship  with  the  size  of 
intracellular folate pool [46]. Changes in the folate source, such as from 5-formyltetrahydrofolate to 
folic  acid,  or  its  corresponding  concentration,  resulted  in  various  effects  depending  on  the  cell  lines 
tested [35].  
• 
Multiple target inhibition inferred from metabolic end product protection studies 
In vitro, pemetrexed can assert both antithymine (by inhibition of TS and DHFR) as well as antipurine 
effects (by inhibition of GARFT). TS is the primary target, while DHFR and GARFT are secondary 
targets for pemetrexed [33, 34, 49, 50].  
• 
Changes in metabolite pools induced by pemetrexed  
In vitro, pemetrexed induced a rapid depletion in dTTP together with an accumulation of dATP, which 
is consistent with TS inhibition, and additional effect on GARFT [50]. The inhibition of GARFT by 
pemetrexed in intact cells was also assessed by direct  measurement of the metabolic flux across the 
purine biosynthesis pathway. According to a report submitted by the applicant, albeit weaker than the 
GARFT inhibitor LY309887, pemetrexed did cause a decrease in cellular incorporation of radiocarbon 
from [14C]-formate into purine bases, consistent inhibition on GARFT. 
6/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Cell-cycle effects of pemetrexed 
The sensitivity to pemetrexed in vitro was not completely dependent on p53 status, although it could 
be favoured by the presence of functional p53 in some cell lines [36]. Exposure to pemetrexed resulted 
in cell arrest at the G1/S-phase boundary, followed by a synchronous entry into S-phase at 24 hours, 
and apoptosis and cell disintegration completed by 48 hours [40]. The cell-cycle effects of pemetrexed 
were  thought  to  contribute  to  the  synergistic  interaction  observed  when  pemetrexed  was  combined 
with certain DNA damaging agents such as cisplatin [38] and doxorubicin [37]. 
• 
Resistant cell studies 
In cells  cultured for several weeks in the presence  of pemetrexed, resistant phenotypes emerge  with 
alteration in the levels of the certain enzymes and a decrease in sensitivity to the drug [51]. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies have been performed with pemetrexed. 
Safety pharmacology 
The  applicant  conducted  studies  to  assess  the  potential  of  pemetrexed  to  elicit  secondary  receptor-
mediated  autonomic  pharmacology  by  smooth  and  cardiac  muscle  tissue  bath  preparations.  In  vivo 
assessments included a battery of central nervous system (CNS) and behavioural function tests and a 
gastrointestinal  transit  evaluation  in  mice,  a  renal  assessment  in  rats,  and  a  cardiovascular  and 
respiratory assessment in anesthetized dogs. 
• 
Cardiovascular and respiratory effects 
Pemetrexed was administered as a single dose by a 10-minute i.v. infusion at doses of 0, 32, or 105 
mg/kg  to  anesthetized  male  beagle  dogs.  Administration  of  105  mg/kg  produced  a  mild  decrease  in 
peripheral vascular resistance and an increase in stroke volume; however, there were no effects seen 
on conductivity, as assessed by quantitative electrocardiography. Administration of the 32-mg/kg dose 
of pemetrexed did not alter any of the cardiovascular parameters. 
No  statistically  significant  blockade  of  the  human  ether-a-go-go-related  gene  (HERG)  ion  channel 
current was observed at any of the concentrations of pemetrexed tested (up to 300 µM) in an in vitro 
study at near physiological temperature conducted by the applicant. 
• 
CNS effects 
In CD-1 mice following i.v. administration of pemetrexed of 60, 200, or 600 mg/kg, no overt clinical 
signs were observed. 
• 
Renal effects 
Pharmacologic effects on renal function were evaluated in female Fischer 344 rats given a single i.v. 
dose of 0, 60, 200, or 600 mg pemetrexed/kg. Overall renal function was not adversely affected. 
• 
Gastrointestinal effects 
Pemetrexed did not alter basal gastrointestinal function at doses up to 600 mg/kg. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
A  variety  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  were  conducted  to  investigate  the  anti-tumour  activity  of 
combinations of pemetrexed with cisplatin, as well as other cytotoxic agents and radiotherapy. 
The  interaction  of  pemetrexed  with  cisplatin  was  studied  in  the  MSTO-211H  cell  line,  which  was 
established from the pleural effusion of a patient with biphasic mesothelioma of the lung [52]. Cells 
were exposed to pemetrexed or cisplatin as single agents either for the entire culture time of 72 hours, 
or  for  24  followed  by  72  hours  of  drug  free  incubation  for  a  total  culture  time  of  96  hours.  The 
7/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
simultaneous  exposure  of  both  compounds  was  carried  out  for  72  hours.  The  pemetrexed 
concentration  range  for  each  combination  assay  was  10  nM  to  50  nM.  The  cisplatin  concentration 
range was 4 or 8 times the pemetrexed levels. The results showed that when the cell fraction affected 
was  greater  than  0.5,  the  interaction  of  pemetrexed  with  cisplatin  was  synergistic  regardless  of  the 
sequence of exposure. 
The  applicant  conducted  a  study on  the  interaction  of  pemetrexed  with  cisplatin  using  the NCI-H23 
lung carcinoma cell line. Cells were exposed to pemetrexed or cisplatin as single agents for 24 or 168 
hours during a total culture time of 168 hours. Simultaneous combinations of both drugs were carried 
out for 168 hours. The pemetrexed concentration range for each combination assay was 48 nM to 12 
µM.  The  cisplatin  concentration  range  was  0.08  to  1.3  µM.  The  interaction  of  pemetrexed  with 
cisplatin,  evaluated  using  the  Pritchard-Shipman  drug-drug  interaction  model,  was  found  to  be 
additive regardless of the sequence of exposure. 
Other studies demonstrated that the interaction of pemetrexed and cisplatin could be dependent on the 
sequence of addition as well as the cell line used [38]. In these studies, tumor cells were exposed to 
pemetrexed and cisplatin either individually or simultaneously for 24 hours, or with one agent for 24 
hours  followed  by  the  other  agent  for  24  hours.  Simultaneous  exposure  to  pemetrexed  and  cisplatin 
produced antagonistic effects in A549 lung and MCF7 breast carcinoma cells, but additive effects in 
PA1 ovarian and WiDr colon carcinoma cells. In contrast, pemetrexed followed by cisplatin produced 
synergistic  effects  in  MCF7  cells,  greater  than  additive  effects  in  A549  as  well  as  PA1  cells,  and 
additive  effects  in  WiDr  cells.  However,  cisplatin  followed  by  pemetrexed  produced  antagonistic 
effects  in  A549,  MCF7,  and  PA1  cells  but  additive  effects  in  WiDr  cells.  From  these  data,  the 
applicant concluded that the addition of pemetrexed prior to cisplatin would be the preferred sequence. 
The  applicant  reviewed  available  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  using  in  vitro  and  in  vivo 
colorectal  cancer  models,  including  the  combination  of  pemetrexed  with  5-fluorouracil,  oxaliplatin, 
and  SN38  [41],  the  combination  of  pemetrexed  and  gemcitabine  in  vitro  [53,  54]  and  in  vivo  [40], 
double  and  triple  combinations  of  pemetrexed,  oxaliplatin,  and  gemcitabine  in  vitro,  pemetrexed 
combined  with  paclitaxel  or  docetaxel  [38],  5-FU  [55],  SN38  [41],  CPT11  (conducted  by  the 
applicant), and with radiation in vitro [56] and in vivo [57] (data not shown). The activities of certain 
of the combinations regimens investigated were characterized as being equal or greater than additive. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption,  distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion  studies  for  pemetrexed  have  been  conducted  in 
CD-1 mice and beagle dogs. The pharmacokinetics of pemetrexed after a single i.v. or intraperitoneal 
dose are summarized in Table 1.  
• 
Methods of analysis  
High  performance  liquid  chromatography  with  ultraviolet  detection  or  tandem  mass  spectrometric 
detection  was  used  for  determination  of  pemetrexed  in  mouse  or  dog  plasma.  The  limit  of 
quantification and inter assay precision was 41 ng/ml and 2.6-5.5%, and 10 or 1000 ng/ml, and 2.3-
8.2 %,  respectively.  [14C]-pemetrexed  was  used  in  studies  to  evaluate  metabolism,  distribution,  and 
excretion of pemetrexed. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Absolute bioavailability following 20 and 200 mg/kg dose by the IP route in mice was significant, thus 
supporting  the  comparability  of  IP  and  i.v.  routes  in  the  toxicology  programme.  Oral  absortion  was 
limited in mice, but at least 13 % of the oral dose was absorbed after oral administration of 20 mg/kg. 
• 
Distribution 
Plasma  levels  were  measured  in  Beagle  dogs  after  i.v.  administration  of  single  doses  of  7.5  or  100 
mg/kg  pemetrexed.  Plasma  levels  decreased  like  in  a  biphasic  first  order  model.  No  difference 
between male and female dogs was observed. The AUC levels were proportional to the administered 
doses.  
8/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Following a single i.v. dose of 20 mg/kg in male CD-1 mice, radioactivity was rapidly distributed to 
tissues  and  excreted  via  renal  and  biliary  elimination.  Within  1  hour,  highest  concentrations  of 
radioactivity were present in urine, bile within the gall bladder, feces, intestinal contents, kidney, and 
liver. Radioactivity was detected only in kidney and liver at times greater than 3 hours after dosing. 
Protein binding of [14C]-pemetrexed in plasma was estimated at 2 concentrations (500 and 5000ng/ml) 
using an ultracentrifugation method. Percentage protein binding was approximately 46%, 53% to 57%, 
and 81% in dog, mouse, and human plasma, respectively. No dependence of binding on concentration 
was noted, which is consistent with the magnitude of protein binding. 
• 
Metabolism 
Metabolism studies of pemetrexed were performed only in urine in female beagle dogs and male CD-1 
mice.  The  dogs  were  administered  a  single  7.5-mg/kg  i.v.  dose  of  [14C]  pemetrexed,  and  urine  was 
collected for 168 hours as the part of excretion study. The pooled urine from 0 to 24 containing 65.1% 
of the actual dose of total radioactivity was profiled for identification of metabolites. The mice were 
given  a  single  20-mg/kg  i.v.  dose  of  [14C]  pemetrexed,  urine  was  collected  over  0  to  7  hours  and 
24.7% of the actual dose of total radioactivity was recovered. 
The  majority  of  urinary  radioactivity  found  in  both  species  was  parent  drug,  constituting 
approximately 44% of the total dose in dog (approximately 68% of the [14C] found in the 0- to 24-hour 
fraction) and approximately 22% in mouse (approximately 90% of the [14C] found in the 0- to 7-hour 
fraction). 
Two minor metabolites were observed, which together accounted for less than 1% (mice) or less than 
6%  (dog)  of  the  total  dose  in  these  urine  samples.  One  of  the  minor  metabolites  was  identified  as 
compound 338979.  Both diastereomers  of  compound  338979  were  observed.  In  a  subsequent  study, 
the other minor metabolite was identified as compound 368962. Unchanged pemetrexed  (70% to 90% 
of  the  administered  dose)  and  metabolite  338979  were  also  detected  in  human  urine,  but  metabolite 
368962 could not be detected.  
Since pemetrexed is largely excreted unchanged in human urine, and metabolism plays a minor role in 
clearance of pemetrexed, studies to determine whether pemetrexed is a substrate for CYP450 enzymes 
have not been carried out (70% to 90% of the administered dose). 
• 
Excretion 
Half  life  was  7.0  h  in  male  mice  following  20  mg/kg  i.v.  and  3.7  to  4.4  h  in  female  beagle  dogs 
following 25 mg/kg i.v. Balance studies after administration of [14C] pemetrexed disodium by i.v. to 
male mice and  female beagle dogs demonstrated that feces and urine were major routes of elimination 
in mice while urine was the major route of elimination of radioactivity in dogs, as in human. In male 
mice,  urine,  and  feces  accounted  for  34.9  %  and  57.4  %  respectively  of  the  recovered  radiactivity. 
Almost  90%  was  excreted  within  24  hours  The  residual  amount  in  mice  96  hours  after  dosing  was 
0.150% ± 0.024%. 
In  female  beagle  dogs  almost  90%  of  the  administered  radioactivity  was  excreted  within  24  hours. 
From 0 to 168 h, 99.2 % of the radioactivity was recovered,  68.8 % in the urine and 30.6 % in feces. 
9/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetics of Pemetrexed After a Single i.v. or Intraperitoneal Dose 
Species 
No./Sex (M/F) 
Route 
Dose (mg/kg) 
Sample 
Assay 
PK parameters: 
  C0/Cmax (ng/ml)b 
  AUC (ng•hr/ml)c 
  AUC0-∞ (ng•hr/ml) 
  T1/2 (hr) 
  CL (ml/min/kg) 
  Vd (L/kg) 
Mouse 
4M 
IV 
20 
Plasma 
HPLC/UV 
40779 
30794 
NC 
7.0 
NC 
NC 
Mouse 
4-5Ma 
IP 
20 
Plasma 
HPLC/UV 
33052 
43792 
NC 
7.8 
NC 
NC 
Mouse 
4-5Ma 
IP 
200 
Plasma 
HPLC/UV 
196000 
216741 
NC 
10.0 
NC 
NC 
Dog 
4F 
IV 
25 
Plasma 
LC/MS/MS 
141157 
119678 
119993 
4.4 
3.53 
1.43 
Dog 
4F 
IV 
25 
Plasma 
LC/MS/MS 
Human 
IV 
500 mg/m2 
Plasma 
LC/MS/MS 
149577 
125902 
126046 
3.7 
3.32 
1.08 
65700 
NC 
159000 
3.5 
91.8 
16.1 
Abbreviations: # = number, M = male, F = female, NA = not applicable, IV = intravenous, IP = intraperitoneal, HPLC = High Performance 
Liquid  Chromatography,  UV  =  ultraviolet,  LC/MS/MS  =  liquid  chromatography  with  tandem  mass  spectrometry,  C0/Cmax  =  maximal 
observed plasma concentration, AUC = area under the plasma concentration-time curve, AUC0-∞ = total systemic exposure (area under the 
plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to infinity), NC = not calculated, T1/2 = half-life, CL = clearance, Vd = volume of distribution. a 4 
animals/timepoint for 0.083-12 hours and 5 animals/timepoint for 12-48 hours. b After i.v. administration, the values reported for C0 were 
extrapolated to zero; the values reported for Cmax represent the first time point measured post dose.  The concentration at time zero was not 
extrapolated for the reported Cmax. c AUC = 0-30 hours for dogs, 0-48 hours for mouse and 0-48 hours for human. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
See discussion on non-clinical aspects, pharmacokinetics. 
Toxicology 
Pemetrexed was evaluated in single-dose studies in mice, rats and dogs, and in repeat-dose studies up 
to 6 weeks in mice, and up to 6 months in dogs using daily, twice weekly, once weekly, or once every 
3 week schedules. Reproductive and developmental studies  were conducted in  mice. Special studies 
were conducted in dogs to evaluate potential rescue agents. 
Single-Dose Toxicity 
The i.v. median lethal dose (MLD) for female and male CD-l mice was >1574 mg/kg (4722 mg/m2) 
and  the  i.v. MLD  for  female  and  male  Fischer  344  rats  was  >1574  and 1332  mg/kg  (approximately 
9444 and 7992 mg/m2), respectively. 
In a dose-ranging study, beagle dogs, 1/sex/group, were given a single i.v. dose of 10, 25, 50, or 100 
mg/kg (200, 500, 1000, 2000 mg/m²). Dogs were observed for 2 weeks and no animal died within that 
time. Clinical signs of toxicity were decreased food consumption, emesis, and runny stools in the 50 
and 100 mg/kg groups. Also, modest reversible decreases in total leukocyte count were seen in dogs of 
these groups.  
Repeat-Dose Toxicity 
In  a  pilot  toxicity  study,  mice  were  given  daily  intraperitoneal  doses  of  0  to  150  mg/kg  (0  to  450 
mg/m2)  for  2  weeks.  All  mice  survived  to  study  termination.  Effects  on  bone  marrow,  testes,  and 
thymus were observed. In a longer duration study, mice were given intraperitoneal doses of 0, 10.6, or 
26.2  mg/kg  daily,  105  mg/kg  twice  weekly,  or  314.8  mg/kg  once  weekly  for  6  weeks.  These  doses 
were equivalent to 31.8, 78.6, 315, or 944.4 mg/m2. The mice tolerated all doses and dose schedules 
with  no  compound-related  mortality.  In  males  given  daily  doses,  there  was  a  partially  compensated 
decrease  in  circulating  erythrocytes  that  was  compatible  with  erythrocyte  fragmentation  in  the 
microvasculature.  In  males,  mean  testes  weights  from  all  pemetrexed-treated  groups  were  decreased 
approximately  70%.  Histologically,  hypospermatogenesis  accompanied  these  decreases  in  organ 
weight. Intestinal necrosis was slight, and was limited to male and female mice treated daily with 10.6 
or 26.2 mg pemetrexed/kg.  
10/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies up to 6 months duration with pemetrexed were conducted in dog. 
In  a  6-week  study,  6  dogs/dose  group  were  given  slow-bolus  i.v.  doses  of  0,  0.11,  or  0.53  mg 
pemetrexed/kg daily, 3.15 or 7.87 mg/kg twice weekly, or 104.96 mg/kg once weekly (equivalent to 0, 
2.2, 10.6, 63, 157.4, or 2099.2 mg/m2). In contrast to what seen in the pilot studies, after about 1 week 
it was apparent that dogs could not tolerate the higher daily (0.53 mg/kg) or the weekly dose (104.96 
mg/kg). Dogs in these two groups had their dose lowered to 0.37 and 26.24 mg/kg, respectively (7.4 
and  524.8  mg/m2,  respectively).  Of  the  4  dogs  given  26.24  mg  pemetrexed/kg  once  per  week, 
septicemia, secondary to mucositis or pneumonia, was the cause of death in the 2 dogs. One out of 6 
dogs administered daily doses of 0.11 mg/kg experienced irreversible toxicity (progressive anorexia, 
hypoactivity, leukopenia) and death after 4 weeks of treatment. Only 2 of the 6 dogs given 3.15 mg/kg 
twice  weekly  completed  6  weeks  of  treatment.  The  remaining  dogs  completed  only  3  weeks  of 
treatment. 
A one-month study with 3-week reversibility phase in dog was conducted to assess the toxicity of four 
weekly doses of pemetrexed in beagle dogs. Doses of 0, 10, or 25 mg/kg (0, 200, or 500 mg/m2) were 
administered  i.v.  to  6  dogs/sex/group.  The  doses  of  10  and  25  mg/kg  produced  measurable 
hematologic effects, but minimal gastrointestinal effects. All changes, except for the decreased platelet 
count in the high-dose dogs (25 mg/kg), fully or partially reversed within the 3-week recovery period. 
A six-month study in dog was initially conducted to assess the toxicity of weekly doses of pemetrexed 
in beagle dogs. Doses of 0, 10, or 25 mg/kg (0, 200, or 500 mg/m2, respectively) were used in the 6-
month  study  and  were  administered  i.v.ly  to  4  dogs/sex/group.  However,  after  approximately  3 
months, the dosing frequency was changed to once every 3 weeks and dosing was discontinued for the 
25-mg/kg group due to hematotoxicity. Pemetrexed given once per week or once 3 weeks caused the 
expected  alterations  in  clinical  observations,  hematology  parameters,  and  histopathology:  abnormal 
faeces  (watery,  mucoid,  or  soft),  decreased  food  consumption,  and  skin  lesions  (erythema, 
desquamation, excoriation, and exudate or crusts), decreases in neutrophil, platelet, reticulocyte, and 
lymphocyte  counts,  non  dose-responsive  bone  marrow  hypocellularity  and  testicular  degeneration. 
Hematotoxicity  was  the  dose-limiting  effect  and  neither  10  nor  25  mg/kg  was  tolerated  when  given 
once  per  week  for  more  than  7  weeks.  Hematologic  changes  in  the  25-mg/kg  dogs  were  reversible, 
and  10  mg/kg  was  tolerated  for  approximately  3  months  after  the  dosing  frequency  was  reduced  to 
once every 3 weeks. 
Toxicokinetics were investigated only in the dog. Plasma concentrations increased with the dose, and 
the increase was proportional to the dose. No gender-effect was observed. 
Genotoxicity 
Pemetrexed  was  not  mutagenic  in  Salmonella  typhimurium  and  Escherichia  coli,  either  with  or 
without  metabolic  activation,  using  the  Ames  test.  There  was  no  evidence  that  pemetrexed  induced 
mammallian cell mutations in  the HGPRT+ Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell assay, either with or 
without metabolic activation. Pemetrexed did not produce an increase in chromosomal aberrations in 
vitro  in  CHO  cells,  either  with  or  without  metabolic  activation,  using  the  chromosome  aberration 
assay.  
The potential of pemetrexed to induce micronuclei in vivo was investigated in bone marrow of ICR 
mice.  The  incidence  of  micronucleated  polychromatic  erythrocytes  in  male  and  female  mice  treated 
with  pemetrexed  was  significantly  increased  compared  to  that  of  animals  receiving  vehicle  control, 
using the mouse micronucleus test. 
Carcinogenicity 
Studies to assess the carcinogenic potential of pemetrexed have not been conducted. 
Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity 
In a segment I reproductive toxicity study in male CD-1 mice, pemetrexed by repeated intraperitoneal 
injection at doses of 0.1 to 10 mg/kg for 6-weeks resulted in male reproductive toxicity characterised 
by  slightly  reduced  fertility  rates,  testicular  atrophy  and  epididymal  hypospermia.  The  no-observed-
effect level (NOEL) for these effects was < 0.1 mg/kg. 
11/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
In the definitive study, pemetrexed was given by injection into one of the caudal veins to mated mice 
(30  mice/group)  at  doses  of  0.2,  1,  or 5  mg/kg  (0.6,  3,  or  15  mg/m2,  respectively).  All  treated  mice 
survived until live-phase termination. Foetal weights were reduced from control in the 0.2, 1, and 5 
mg/kg groups in a dose-responsive manner. The incidences of foetuses with incomplete ossification of 
several  skeletal  structures  were  higher  in  the  1-  and  5-mg/kg  litters  relative  to  controls.  The 
malformation, cleft palate, was observed in approximately 85% and 97% of the 5-mg/kg foetuses and 
litters, respectively. In this definitive study, the NOEL for maternal toxicity was 1 mg/kg (3 mg/m2), 
based  on  decreased  body  weight  gain.  A  NOEL  for  developmental  toxicity  was  not  established, 
because foetal growth retardation was observed at all doses. Foetal malformations were evident only 
in the group given 5 mg/kg, the highest dose tested. 
Studies to assess the prenatal and postnatal toxicity of pemetrexed have not been conducted. 
Local tolerance 
Specific  parenteral  tolerance  studies  were  not  conducted  with  pemetrexed.  No  evidence  of  irritation 
was identified at the sites of i.v. and intraperitoneal injection in the repeat-dose toxicity studies. There 
was  no  chemical-induced  peritonitis  in  the  abdominal  cavity  of  mice  following  intraperitoneal 
injection. 
Ocular and dermal tolerance tests showed that pemetrexed was considered to be a mild irritant to the 
ocular tissue of rabbit, and a moderate irritant to the dermal tissue of the rabbit. 
Other toxicity studies 
Rescue studies 
In a folinic acid rescue study in dogs given a potentially lethal dose of pemetrexed (50 mg/kg, or 1000 
mg/m2,  × 2,  3  days  apart)  followed  by  parenteral  folinic  acid,  the  clinical  signs  of  toxicity  and 
haematological  alterations  induced  by  pemetrexed  treatment  were  reversed  within  4  days  after 
initiation of folinic acid therapy, and leukocyte counts had returned to normal range after 6 days.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  amount  of  pemetrexed  that  was  estimated  to  be  used  and  excreted  did  not  warrant  a  full 
environmental  analysis.  Information  was  gained,  though,  as  part  of  the  development  of  waste 
containment guidelines for manufacturing facilities. In this regard, pemetrexed was found to have high 
water solubility and a wide safety margin for aquatic species.  
The  Kow  of  pemetrexed  also  indicates  a  low  potential  for  bioaccumulation  in  aquatic  organisms. 
Further, due to the anticipated volume and usage, substantive excretion of pemetrexed from humans is 
not  expected.  The  maximum  predicted  concentration  of  pemetrexed  in  the  influent  of  sewage 
treatment facilities that may be discharged into the aquatic environment is < 0.03 µg/L.  
Pemetrexed  is  highly  biodegradable  in  sewage  treatment  sludge.  Less  than  1000  kg  of  the  active 
ingredient in pemetrexed is expected to be used within a year in Europe, resulting in concentrations in 
the  influent  of  sewage  treatment  facilities  less  than  0.03  µg/L.  For  these  reasons,  exposure  to 
concentrations of pemetrexed in the environment would not pose an environmental concern. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Nonclinical reports and bibliographic references, a comprehensive factual synopsis of findings and the 
implications for the safe use of pemetrexed have been provided following agreed Common Technical 
Document recommendations [58]. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pemetrexed  was  found  to  have  activity  against  a  broad  range  of  tumor  cells,  including  tumor  types 
generally  considered  to  be  chemoresistant.  In  combination  with  cisplatin  a  synergistic  effect  was 
shown  in  vitro  when  given  simultaneously.  Tumour  growth  inhibition  was  demonstrated  against 
breast,  pancreas,  lung,  and  colon  tumour  xenografts.  No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  have 
been performed with pemetrexed, which is considered acceptable, as the mechanism of action seems 
to be specific. Overall, adequate information about the pemetrexed-specific activity profile has been 
12/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
obtained using well-characterised cell lines and compared with that of standard anticancer agents, in 
agreement with relevant guidance [59]. 
The safety pharmacology of pemetrexed was  assessed with a limited number  of in vitro and in vivo  
studies.  No  reference  compounds  have  been  used.  However,  the  models  used  were  all  well 
characterized, and the lack of concurrent positive and negative controls can be justified in agreement 
with  current  guidance  [59a].  Overall,  there  were  no  effects  seen  in  the  safety  pharmacology  studies 
that  would  be  of  concern.  From  a  preclinical  perspective,  pemetrexed  has  no  effect  on  QTc 
prolongation. 
Pemetrexed was evaluated in combination with a variety of other anti-tumor agents including platinum 
compounds,  antitubulin  agents,  and  other  antimetabolites.  The  resulting  growth  inhibitory  activities 
were generally additive or synergistic. From non-clinical results, a clear justification of the sequence 
of  an  efficient  treatment  combination  is  difficult,  due  to  the  wide  range  of  compounds,  models  and 
sequence administration used. The pharmacodynamic drug interaction of pemetrexed and cisplatin is 
of  particular  interest,  and  is  prompted  by  indications  of  therapeutic  effect  in  the  treatment  of 
mesothelioma. One in vitro investigation showed that simultaneous administration of the combination 
has synergistic effects on growth inhibition of the mesothelioma tumour cell line. No in vivo studies 
with the cisplatin combination have been submitted. Since extensive clinical data have been available, 
further animal studies to justify the combination, as generally required [60], are not expected to bring 
any essential new information on the effects of the combination in humans. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The oral absorption in mice was very limited. Therefore, the i.v. route of administration was chosen 
for  clinical  development.  The  Beagle  dog  was  found  to  be  an  appropriate  animal  for  pharmaco-
toxicological  studies  since  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  Beagle  dogs  and  humans  were  in  the 
same order of  magnitude. Pemetrexed was rapidly distributed, followed by rapid urinary and biliary 
elimination.  The  latter  is  pronounced  in  mice  whereas  urinary  excretion  is  preferred  in  Beagle  dogs 
and  humans.  The  long  retention  in  liver  observed  in  mice  could  possibly  be  due  to  tissue-specific 
uptake  and  retention  of  polyglutamylated  forms  of  this  close  folate  analog.  Metabolism  contributed 
minimally towards the clearance of pemetrexed in mice, dogs, and humans.  
The applicant has justified the details of the methods used, their validity and reproducibility, including 
the specificity, precision and accuracy. The animal species in these studies are those normally used in 
the  laboratory  for  pharmacological  and  toxicological  investigations.  Doses  and  routes  of  drug 
administration are related to the proposed clinical use of the substance. Overall, adequate information 
has  been  presented  allowing  comparison  and  extrapolation  between  animal  and  human,  and 
appropriate conclusions have been drawn from these studies about the time course of the absorption, 
distribution and excretion of pemetrexed. 
Aspirin and ibuprofen are commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in cancer 
patients and occasionally fatal adverse events have been reported with the anti-folate methotrexate in 
combination with NSAIDs. In vivo interaction studies were conducted with aspirin and ibuprofen to 
determine  if  single  or  repeated  oral  doses  of  these  agents  would  alter  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
pemetrexed. No substantive pharmacokinetic interactions were observed, but this may also be due to 
the small number of animals studied, and the lack of power of the studies detect any effect (data not 
shown). 
Preclinical toxicology studies using concomitant administration of pemetrexed and cisplatin were not 
conducted,  although  such  studies  are  encouraged  [59].  For  combinations  involving  pemetrexed  and 
cisplatin, preclinical toxicity testing was not considered essential by the applicant because each agent 
has been fully evaluated for safety in humans, and because of the lack of a pharmacokinetic interaction 
in  humans.  It  is  agreed  that  coadministration  with  cisplatin  did  not  alter  pemetrexed  clearance  and 
pemetrexed did not alter total platinum clearance in the Phase III trial JMCH. Further animal studies to 
describe  any  collateral  effects  of  the  combination  are  not  expected  to  bring  any  essential  new 
information on the effects of the combination in humans. Given the documentation and justifications 
provided, the toxicology requirements are considered fulfilled. 
13/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Toxicology 
The number and types of species studied in single-dose tioxicity studies were adequate and the list of 
tissues examined was extensive and consistent with GLP. In agreement with applicable requirements 
and guidelines [59-61], adequate presentation of the results and conclusions have been provided. Dogs 
were more sensitive to the toxic effects of pemetrexed than were mice. This finding was expected, as 
mice  have  a  “self-rescue”  mechanism  in  a  circulating  thymidine  moiety  that  can  serve  as  a 
replacement source in folate-antagonized cells [62]. Additionally, dogs are generally more predictive 
of  systemic  toxicity  in  man  than  are  mice  [63,  64].  Despite  the  rescue  mechanism,  identification  of 
target  organs  in  the  toxicity  studies  in  mice  was  not  confounded  by  this  phenomenon  and  was 
confirmed by the findings in the dog. In addition, NOAELs found in the mice were similar to those 
found in the dog. Thus, the choice of the mouse in pilot toxicology studies is acceptable. 
Pemetrexed was administered by the route intended for use in man and the rationale on which the dose 
levels  were  selected  was  presented.  Adequate  presentation  of  the  results  and  conclusions  have  been 
provided. The duration of the long-term repeat-dose studies is adequate for the conditions of clinical 
use, and has been adequately justified in view of applicable requirements and guidelines [59, 60, 65]. 
The  main  limiting  toxicity  of  pemetrexed  following  repeated  dosing  was  haematological  toxicity 
followed  by  necrotising  enteropathy.  This  toxicologic  profile  is  consistent  with  the  antiproliferative 
activities  of  folate  antimetabolites  [66].  Lesions  of  mucositis,  enteropathy,  and  lymphoid  and  bone 
marrow  hypocellularity  are  commonly  encountered  with  folate  antimetabolites  and  other  oncolytic 
agents [66, 67]. Skin, especially the mucosa of the mouth cavity, were affected leading to ulceration of 
mucosa  and  sometimes  followed  by  bacterial  inflammation.    Hypospermatogenesis  with  necrotised 
spermatocytes  were  also  seen  in  pathological  investigations  at  the  end  of  the  study.  Usually  these 
effects were reversible, however, this is not clear with regard to hypospermatogenesis. 
Due to the extreme toxic effects in beagle dogs it was not possible to determine safety margins which 
were comparable to humans. Doses of 25 mg/kg (500 mg/m²) every 3 weeks seemed to be tolerated in 
dogs poorly but the same dose of pemetrexed is given to humans. 
Pemetrexed was clastogenic in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test. This finding might be explained 
by the TS inhibition caused by pemetrexed. TS methylates uridine to thymidine and is dependent on 
folate  metabolism.  TS  inhibition  by  pemetrexed  will  result  in  accumulation  of  uridine  along  with  a 
decrease  in  thymidine  levels.  Absence  of  folic  acid  and  thymidine  in  the  medium,  greatly  enhanced 
micronucleus formation in proliferating lymphocyte cultures from normal individuals [68]. Increased 
levels  of  uridine  with  decreased  levels  of  thymidine  also  result  in  cycles  of  urdine  insertion  and 
excision  into  the  DNA,  eventually  leading  to  DNA  strand  breakage  and  cell  death  [69,  70]. 
Pemetrexed  was  not  mutagenic  in  the  Ames  test  and  tested  negative    in  the  in  vitro  chromosome 
aberration test in CHO cells. The clastogenic potential of pemetrexed is adequately described in the 
SPC (Section 5.3). 
Pemetrexed can have genetically damaging effects. Adequate warnings have been included in the SPC 
(Section 4.4, and 4.6). Sexually mature males are advised not to father a child during the treatment and 
up  to  6  months  thereafter.  Contraceptive  measures  or  abstinence  are  recommended.  Women  of 
childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment with pemetrexed.  
Overall, the genotoxicity of pemetrexed has been adequately investigated and standard test have been 
conducted and described in compliance with regulatory guidance and requirements [58-61, 71]. 
Carcinogenicity studies with pemetrexed have not been conducted. Such studies are not needed with 
unequivocally genotoxic compounds, as they are presumed to be transspecies carcinogens, implying a 
hazard  to  humans.  No  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  are  required  taking  into  account  the  life 
expectancy  of  patients  with  unresectable  malignant  pleural  mesothelioma  or  locally  advanced  or 
metastatic  NSCLC  after  prior  chemotherapy  [58-61].  The  lack  of  such  studies  has  been  adequately 
reflected in the SPC (Section 5.3). 
Although  generally  not  required  for  anticancer  agents  (these  products  are  are  assumed  to  cause 
reproductive disturbances),  studies  elucidating  the  potential  for  reproductive  toxicity  are  encouraged 
[59].  Administration  of  pemetrexed  to  male  mice  resulted  in  reproductive  toxicity  suggesting  that 
pemetrexed may impair male fertility. The applicant did not conduct any female fertility study as the 
14/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
results obtained from such a study with pemetrexed would not provide any additional insights given 
the magnitude of embryolethality already described in the pregnant mouse. The reproductive toxicity 
observed  is  consistent  with  the  known  antiproliferative  activities  of  folate  antimetabolites.  These 
observations are not unexpected findings for a drug that affects rapidly dividing cells, are commonly 
seen  with  anticancer  drugs,  and  are  adequately  reflected  in  the  SPC  (Section  5.3).  Owing  to  the 
possibility  of  pemetrexed  treatment  causing  irreversible  infertility,  men  are  advised  to  seek 
counselling on sperm storage before starting treatment, and this has been reflected in the SPC (Section 
4.4). 
Pemetrexed, like other anti-metabolites, is suspected to cause serious birth defects when administered 
during pregnancy (see SPC, section 4.6). Administration of pemetrexed to pregnant mice resulted in 
decreased foetal viability, decreased foetal weight, incomplete ossification of some skeletal structures 
and  cleft  palate.  As  a  class,  folic  acid  antimetabolites  have  been  demonstrated  to  produce  three 
manifestations  of  developmental  toxicity:  growth  retardation,  embryolethality,  and  malformations 
[72]. Exencephaly, omphalocele, ectrodactyly, and cleft palate have been observed in mouse fetuses 
exposed  to  methotrexate  during  organogenesis  [73].  Based  on  the  pilot  and  the  definitive 
developmental  toxicity  studies  with  pemetrexed,  growth  retardation  was  observed  at  doses  ≥0.2 
mg/kg, malformations at doses ≥5 mg/kg, and embryolethality at doses ≥50 mg/kg. Pemetrexed should 
not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary, after a careful consideration of the needs of the 
mother and the risk for the foetus. Adequate warnings are provided in the SPC (Section 4.6 and 5.3) 
Studies to assess the prenatal and postnatal toxicity of pemetrexed have not been conducted. Lack of 
these  studies  has  been  justified  in  view  of  the  nature  of  the  disease,  cyclic  nature  of  pemetrexed 
administraton, duration of treatment, and poor life expectancy of the proposed patient population. 
In summary, the developmental toxicity profile of pemetrexed and the types of foetal effects observed 
are consistent with effects reported in rodents for other folic acid anti-metabolites [63]. A nonrodent 
species was not tested in a segment II study based on the significant positive findings observed in the 
mouse  study.  Female  fertility  studies  were  not  conducted  as  such  a  study  would  not  provide  any 
additional insights given the magnitude of embryolethality observed. Studies to assess the prenatal and 
postnatal  toxicity  of  pemetrexed  have  not  been  conducted,  in  view  of  nature  of  the  disease,  cyclic 
nature of pemetrexed administration, duration of treatment, and poor life-expectancy of the proposed 
patient  population.  Overall,  the  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  of  pemetrexed  has  been 
adequately  investigated  and  reported,  and  the  omission  of  further  reproductive  and  developmental 
toxicity  studies  has  been  adequately  justified,  in  line  with  applicable  guidelines  and  regulatory 
requirements [59, 60, 74]. 
The lack of local tolerance testing has been justified based on the findings of other toxicity studies, in 
line with applicable guidance [59]. It is unlikely that the formulated pemetrexed would pose a risk for 
reaction  at  the  site  of  injection.  Pemetrexed  has  potential  to  be  an  ocular  and  dermal  irritant. 
Appropriate cautionary statements and preparation and administration precautions are included in the 
SPC  (Section  6.6).  Extravasation  should  be  managed  by  local  standard  practice  as  with  other  non-
vesicants. 
The mechanism of reversal of antifolate toxicity by the active folates at the cellular level is complex 
and  is  the  subject  of  continuous  research  (see  discussion  on  clinical  pharmacology).  In vitro  studies 
have  confirmed  that  the  toxic  effect  of  pemetrexed  can  be  reversed  efficiently  by  folinic  acid  [75]. 
According to a study conducted by the applicant, leucovorin was able to rescue dogs from lethal acute 
toxicity. Folinic acid should be considered as an antidote for overdose (see SPC Section 4.9). 
3. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Efficacy data are presented by indication. Based on the information provided, all trials were conducted 
according to the principles of GCP. In MPM one pivotal Phase 3 study was performed comparing the 
test  regimen  of  pemetrexed  plus  cisplatin  with  cisplatin  monotherapy.    Supporting  studies  include  a 
Phase 1 dose-finding study of pemetrexed plus cisplatin, a Phase 1 dose-finding study of pemetrexed 
plus  carboplatin,  and  a  Phase  2  study  of  single-agent  pemetrexed  in  chemotherapy-naive  MPM 
15/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
patients (Table 2A). In NSCLC after prior chemotherapy, one pivotal Phase 3 study was performed. 
This study compared the test regimen of pemetrexed with docetaxel, the only drug currently approved 
for  second-line  treatment  of  NSCLC.  Supporting  studies  include  Phase  2  studies  of  single-agent 
pemetrexed  in  previously  treated,  or  untreated,  NSCLC  patients  (Table  2B).  Scientific  Advice  was 
sought  from  the  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal  Products  (CPMP)  in  2000.  Pemetrexed  is 
currently under development for several oncology indications. 
Table 2A. Main studies submitted for clinical efficacy (MPM indication) 
Study Identifier 
H3E-MC-JMCH 
H3E-MC-JMDR 
Brief Description 
Phase 3, randomized, single-blind, 
controlled 
Phase 2, open-label, uncontrolled 
H3E-MC-JMAP 
H3E-MC-JMAU 
Phase 1, open-label, uncontrolled 
Phase 1, open-label, uncontrolled 
Regimen 
Pemetrexed  + cisplatin 
vs. cisplatin monotherapy 
Pemetrexed 
Primary Objective 
Comparison of 
overall survival time 
Estimation of tumor 
response rate 
Dose-finding 
Pemetrexed  + cisplatin 
Pemetrexed + carboplatin  Dose-finding 
ALIMTA  must  only  be  administered  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  qualified  in  the  use  of 
anti-cancer  chemotherapy  (see  section  4.2  of  the  SPC).  In  patients  treated  for  malignant  pleural 
mesothelioma,  the  recommended  dose  of  ALIMTA  is  500 mg/m2  of  body  surface  area  (BSA) 
administered  as  an  i.v.  infusion  over  10  minutes  on  the  first  day  of  each  21-day  cycle.  The 
recommended  dose  of  cisplatin  is  75 mg/m2  BSA  infused  over  two  hours  approximately  30  minutes 
after  completion  of  the  pemetrexed  infusion  on  the  first  day  of  each  21-day  cycle.  Patients  must 
receive  adequate  anti-emetic  treatment  and  appropriate  hydration  prior  to  and/or  after  receiving 
cisplatin (see SPC section 4.2). In patients treated for NSCLC, the recommended dose of ALIMTA is 
500 mg/m2 BSA administered as an i.v. infusion over 10 minutes on the first day of each 21-day cycle.  
Table 2B. Main studies submitted for clinical efficacy (NSCLC indication) 
Study Identifier 
H3E-MC-JMEI 
H3E-MC-JMBR 
H3E-MC-JMAL 
H3E-MC-JMAN 
Brief Description 
Phase 3, randomized, open-label, 
controlled, second-line NSCLC 
Phase 2, open-label, uncontrolled, 
second-line NSCLC patients who were 
highly refractory 
Phase 2, open-label, uncontrolled, first-
line NSCLC 
Phase 2, open-label, uncontrolled, first-
line NSCLC 
Regimen 
Pemetrexed vs. 
Docetaxel 
Pemetrexed 
Primary Objective 
Comparison of 
overall survival time 
Tumor response rate 
Pemetrexed 
Tumor response rate 
Pemetrexed 
Tumor response rate 
Since  December  1999,  folic  acid  and  vitamin  B12  supplementation  have  been  introduced  for  all 
patients treated with pemetrexed, to reduce toxicity (see SPC section 4.4). Patients must take oral folic 
acid or a multivitamin containing folic acid (350 to 1000 micrograms) on a daily basis. At least five 
doses of folic acid must be taken during the seven days preceding the first dose of pemetrexed, and 
dosing  must  continue  during  the  full  course  of  therapy  and  for  21  days  after  the  last  dose  of 
pemetrexed.  Accordingly,  patients  must  also  receive  an  intramuscular  injection  of  vitamin  B12 
(1000 micrograms)  in  the  week  preceding  the  first  dose  of  pemetrexed  and  once  every  three  cycles 
thereafter. Subsequent vitamin B12 injections may be given on the same day as pemetrexed.  
Pharmacology 
• 
Analytical methods 
For  the  measurement  of  pemetrexed  concentrations  in  plasma  and  urine,  a  reverse-phase  HPLC 
method  using  electrospray  tandem  mass  spectrometry  detection  was  primarily  employed.  For  the 
measurement  of  total  platinum  (for  cisplatin  and  carboplatin)  concentrations  in  plasma,  a  standard 
graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopic method was used. 
16/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  pemetrexed  following  single-agent  administration  have  been 
evaluated  in  426  cancer  patients  with  a  variety  of  solid  tumours  at  doses  ranging  from  0.2  to 
838 mg/m2 infused over a 10-minute period. 
Pemetrexed was administered as a single agent in Phase 1 dose-escalation studies JMAA, JMAB, and 
BP001. Pemetrexed was administered as a 10-minute i.v. infusion every 21 days over a dose range of 
50 to 700 mg/m2 in Study JMAA, once weekly (every 7 days) for 4 weeks followed by two weeks of 
rest  over  a  dose  range  of  10 to  40  mg/m2  in  Study JMAB,  and  once  daily  for  5  consecutive  days 
followed by 16 days of rest to complete a 21-day cycle over a dose range of 0.2 to 5.2 mg/m2 in Study 
BP001.  Clinical evaluation demonstrated that the once every 21-day dosing regimen (Study JMAA) 
was the most promising dosing regimen to explore for subsequent development. 
In  Study  JMAA,  dose  escalation  was  performed  using  the  modified  continual  reassessment  method.  
Only  1  or  2 patients  were  assigned  to  each  dose  until  the  presence  of  toxicity  was  observed.    More 
patients  were  enrolled  at  the  three  highest  doses  (525,  600,  and  700 mg/m2).    The  MTD  from  this 
dosage  regimen  was  determined 
  The  main  DLTs  were  neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia, and chronic fatigue.  Doses of 500 and 600 mg/m2 were evaluated in a variety of 
subsequent  Phase  2  studies  in  various  solid  tumor  types.  The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  study 
JMAA  are  summarized  in  Table  2C.  Pemetrexed  total  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  and  maximum 
plasma  concentration  increase  proportionally  with  dose.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  pemetrexed  were 
consistent over multiple treatment cycles. 
to  be  600 mg/m2. 
17/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
Table  2C.  Summary  (mean  [%CV])  of  Single  Agent  Phase  1  Pemetrexed  Pharmacokinetic 
Parameters in Cancer Patients (Study JMAA, i.v. route of administration) 
Dose 
(mg/m2) 
50 
(n=1) 
75 
(n=1) 
100 
(n=1) 
150 
(n=2) 
225 
(n=2) 
350 
(n=1) 
525 
(n=3) 
Cmax 
(µg/ml) 
11.9 
10.0 
27.3 
12.9 
39.5 
64.4 
91.4 
Tmax 
(hr)a 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.5 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
121 
(13%) 
0.08 – 0.25 
600 
(n=20) 
137 
(33%) 
0.08 – 0.25 
700 
(n=5) 
175 
(27%) 
0.08 – 0.25 
Vss 
(L/m2) 
6.88 
12.7d 
9.58 
20.9d 
5.92 
11.3d 
5.3 – 11.8 
7.63 – 30.7d 
5.50 
10.6d 
5.68 
9.88d 
6.85 
(12%) 
13.6d 
(12%) 
7.00 
(20.0%) 
13.8d 
(27%) 
6.39 
(7.7%) 
12.5d 
(11%) 
AUC 
(µg·hr/ml) 
21.9 
13.6 
39.5 
t1/2 
(hr) 
2.5 
1.5 
2.4 
Urinary 
Excretion 
(% dose) 
70 
41 
80 
40.1 - 53.9 
2.2 - 2.4 
108 
121 
158 
231 
(32%) 
266 
(27%) 
398 
(43%) 
2.7 
2.7 
3.9 
3.1 
3.7 
70.0 
67 
70b 
(29%) 
83b 
(15%) 
88b 
(20%) 
CLp 
(ml/min/m2)
38.1 
70.5d 
92.1 
201d 
42.2 
80.7d 
46.4 - 62.4 
67.4 - 163d 
31.2 
59.8d 
36.8 
64.1d 
40.7 
(33%) 
80.7d 
(31%) 
40.0 
(24%) 
77.7d 
(26%) 
33.6 
(39%) 
65.7d 
(42%) 
CLr 
(ml/min/m2) 
26.8 
49.6d 
38.1 
83.0d 
NA 
50.1 
72.6d 
21.8 
41.9d 
24.8 
43.1d 
27.4c 
(52%) 
54.7d 
(50%) 
35.9b 
(41%) 
62.8d 
(25%) 
29.9c 
(12%) 
62.4d 
(79%) 
Abbreviations: AUC = area under the curve; CLp = plasma clearance; CLr = renal clearance; Cmax = maximum 
plasma concentration; CV = coefficient of variation = [standard deviation/mean] × 100%; NA = not applicable; 
Tmax = observed sampling time of Cmax; t1/2 = apparent terminal elimination half-life; Vss = distribution volume 
at steady state. a  Tmax reported as range. b  n = 4. c  n = 3. d  non BSA normalized units (ml/min for CLp, CLr, 
and L for Vss). 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
Alimta is intended for i.v. administration, and absorption studies are not relevant. 
• 
Distribution 
In Study JMAA, mean plasma concentration-time profiles at the three highest doses (525, 600 and 700 
mg/m2) demonstrated a sharp decline of approximately three orders of magnitude from the maximum 
over a 24-hour period. Maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) occurred at or near termination of the 
infusion and ranged from 67.4 to 251.3 µg/ml at a 600 mg/m2 dose. Total plasma clearance (CLp) and 
steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) were consistent across the dose range and ranged from 52.3 
to 136 ml/min and 8.5 to 23.0 L at 600 mg/m2, respectively.  Inter-patient variability of CLp and Vss 
was moderate at 23% and 26%, respectively.  The apparent t1/2 was short, ranging from 2 to 7 hours 
for all doses. Within each of the three Phase 1 studies there were no clinically significant deviations 
from dose proportionality for both AUC and Cmax.  
Pemetrexed  demonstrated  a  relatively  small  volume  of  distribution  in  both  noncompartmental 
pharmacokinetic  evaluations  based  on  data  from  Phase  1  studies,  and  population  pharmacokinetic 
analyses based on data from Phase 2 and 3 studies, suggesting that the compound has limited tissue 
distribution.  In  population  pharmacokinetic  analyses,  distribution  volume  at  steady  state  (Vss)  was 
18/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.1 L, or approximately 9 L/m2 (based on median BSA of 1.74 m2). Of this volume, approximately 
80%  was  associated  with  the  volume  of  the  central  compartment  (V1).    Body  size  as  quantified  by 
body  surface  area  (BSA)  was  identified  in  the  population  pharmacokinetics  analyses  to  be  the  only 
significant predictor of V1 as described by the relationship V1 = 6.13•BSA1.32.  Because V1 probably 
represents a combination of total blood volume and well-perfused organs, it is reasonable that larger 
individuals have greater blood volume and organ size and thus a larger volume of distribution.  The 
relationship identified between V1 and BSA is consistent with this assumption.  No relationships were 
established between distribution volume of the second (that is, peripheral) compartment (V2) and the 
potential covariates investigated. 
The protein binding of [14C] pemetrexed in plasma was estimated using an ultracentrifugation method.  
In vitro pemetrexed protein binding at concentration of 0.5, 100 and 200 µg/ml  was assessed in pre-
dose  human  plasma  samples  from  Study  JMAW  using  ultracentrifugation.  Subjects  were  classified 
into  treatment  groups  according  to  varying  degrees  of  renal  impairment  as  measured  by  GFR.  In  a 
concentration range from 0.5 to 200 µg/ml, pemetrexed was approximately 80.3% to 83.9% bound to 
plasma  proteins.  No  notable  differences  were  observed  for  different  degrees  of  pemetrexed  plasma 
concentration and of renal impairment. 
• 
Metabolism 
Non-clinical  studies  revealed  minimal  metabolism  of  pemetrexed.  Two  minor  metabolites  were 
observed  from  non-clinical  studies  but  neither  metabolite  is  pharmacologically  active.  Unchanged 
pemetrexed  and  metabolite  LY338979  were  also  detected  in  human  urine  collected  from  subjects 
participating in the renal insufficiency Study JMAW using liquid chromatography with tandem mass 
spectrometry  (LC/MS/MS).  Unchanged  pemetrexed  accounted  for  the  majority  of  the  drug-related 
material in urine. Metabolite LY368962 could not be detected in human urine samples.  
The ability of pemetrexed to inhibit the metabolism of marker catalytic activities for the cytochromes 
P450  CYP3A,  CYP2D6,  CYP2C9,  and  CYP1A2  was  examined.  Slight  inhibition  by  pemetrexed  of 
the  form-selective  biotransformation  for  CYP3A,  the  1'-hydroxylation  of  midazolam,  was  observed. 
At a midazolam concentration of 5 µM, 21% inhibition of CYP3A mediated midazolam metabolism 
was  observed  at  the  highest  concentration  of  pemtrexed  (885  µM)  examined.  At  a  bufuralol 
concentration  of  5  µM,  little  change  in  CYP2D6  mediated  bufuralol  metabolism  was  observed  at 
concentrations of pemetrexed ranging from 400 to 1000 µM. At a diclofenac concentration of 2.5 µM, 
slight  inhibition  of  the  CYP2C9  mediated  metabolism  was  observed  at  the  highest  pemetrexed 
concentration (1000 µM)  examined. Metabolism of phenacetin to acetaminophen, the form-selective 
biotransformation for CYP1A2 catalytic activity, was slightly inhibited in the presence of up to 1000 
µM pemetrexed when a 12.5 µM phenacetin concentration was used. Since peak circulating levels of 
pemetrexed approach 200 µg/ml (468 µM) in humans, these in vitro studies predict that pemetrexed 
would  not  cause  clinically  significant  inhibition  of  the  metabolic  clearance  of  drugs  metabolized  by 
CYP3A, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2. 
• 
Excretion 
Study JMAA showed that pemetrexed is eliminated primarily by urinary excretion of unchanged drug. 
Pemetrexed  is  primarily  eliminated  in  the  urine,  with  70 %  to  90 %  of  the  administered  dose  being 
recovered  unchanged  in  urine  within  the  first  24  hours  following  administration.  Urinary  excretion 
started  to  reach  a  plateau at  approximately  12  hours  after  start  of  infusion,  consistent  with the  short 
elimination half-life (t1/2). 
The fraction excreted unchanged into urine appeared to decrease progressively with severity of renal 
insufficiency  (see  also  pharmacokinetics  in  special  populations).  Indeed,  a  positive  correlation 
between  pemetrexed  CLp  and  estimated  creatinine  clearance  was  observed  for  Studies  JMAA  and 
JMAB.  Plasma  clearance  increased  with  improved  renal  function,  as  expected  for  a  drug  that  is 
eliminated primarily by urinary excretion. 
Pemetrexed  total  systemic  clearance  was  estimated  to  be  91.8  ml/min  and  the  elimination  half-life 
from plasma was 3.5 hours for a “typical” patient with normal renal function (creatinine clearance of 
90  ml/min  calculated  using  the  standard  Cockcroft  and  Gault  formula  or  measured  GFR  using  the 
19/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Tc99m-DPTA serum clearance method). Active tubular secretion contributes significantly to the renal 
elimination  of  pemetrexed.  The  product  of  the  fraction  unbound  (fu)  and  GFR  (fu•GFR;  0.19•120 
ml/min  =  23  ml/min),  represents  the  filtration  capacity  of  the  kidney  to  eliminate  pemetrexed.  
Therefore,  the  estimate  of  pemetrexed  clearance  (CL)  (91.8 ml/min)  is  approximately  4  times  the 
estimated clearance by filtration (23 ml/min). Between patient variability in clearance was moderate at 
19.3 % in cancer patients receiving single-agent pemetrexed at a dose of 500 mg/m2. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
Methods 
A population pharmacokinetic model was developed using data from 8 of 10 Phase II studies (Studies 
JMAC, JMAD, JMAG, JMAH, JMAI, JMAJ, JMAK, JMAM, construction set). The predictive ability 
of  the  model  was  then  evaluated  using  the  data  from  the  remaining  2  studies  (JMAL  and  JMBR, 
validation  set).  The  primary  objective  for  each  of  the  nonrandomized  single-arm  studies  without 
controls was to determine the response rate in each tumor type for patients treated with pemetrexed. In 
each of the studies, pemetrexed was administered as a 10-minute i.v. infusion every 21 days.  Initial 
doses (Cycle 1) were 500 to 600 mg/m2. Dose adjustment (reduction) at the start of subsequent courses 
of therapy were based on nadir counts or maximal nonhematologic toxicity from the preceding cycle 
of  therapy.  The  studies  were  prospectively designed  to  include a  sparse  blood  sampling  strategy  for 
evaluation  using  population  pharmacokinetic  techniques.  Plasma  concentration-time  data  were 
analyzed by population pharmacokinetic methods using the NONMEM software [76]. 
Results 
The  analyses  included  data  from  287  (209  and  78  for  the  construction  and  validation  sets, 
respectively) patients receiving pemetrexed as a 10-minute continuous infusion every 21 days. A total 
of  1596  observations  from  287  patients  receiving  pemetrexed  and  441  treatment  cycles  with  doses 
ranging from 244 mg to 1494 mg were collected at various times during Cycles 1 and 3 for analysis of 
pemetrexed  concentrations  in  plasma  to  cover  the  entire  plasma  concentration-time  profile.  The 
pharmacokinetics  of  pemetrexed  were  best  characterized  using  an  open  two-compartment  model 
parameterized  in  terms  of  clearance  (CL),  central  volume  of  distribution  (V1),  intercompartmental 
clearance (Q), and peripheral volume of distribution (V2).   
Various  patient  demographic  and  physiologic  factors  were  evaluated  with  respect  to  each 
pharmacokinetic  parameter.  The  final  population  pharmacokinetic  model  indicated  that  pemetrexed 
clearance was dependent on creatinine clearance as estimated by the standard Cockcroft-Gault formula 
(CrClCG,std)  incorporating  age,  body  weight,  and  serum  creatinine  concentration.  The  volume  of 
distribution of the central compartment was dependant on body surface area (BSA). Between-patient 
variability in CL, Central Volume of Distribution (V1), and Peripheral Volume of Distribution V2 in 
the final population model are summarised in Table 3. 
The  “typical  value”  (population  central  tendency)  for  pemetrexed  CL  was  90.2 ml/min,  and  for 
pemetrexed Vss was 16.1 L.  The apparent t1/2 of pemetrexed from plasma for the typical patient was 
determined  to  be  approximately  3.5  hours.    Each  of  these  values  are  consistent  with  the  results 
obtained  from  the  Phase  1  study,  JMAA.    Similarly,  estimates  of  between-patient  variability  were 
consistent with those obtained from Study JMAA and were well-characterized based on precision of 
variance parameter estimates (19.3% [14.1 %SEE] for CL, 16.6% [29.3 %SEE] for V1, 24.5% [24.6 
%SEE] for V2, and 28.4% [8.22 %SEE] residual variability). 
20/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 3. Pharmacokinetic and covariate parameters in final population model for pemetrexed 
Parameter Description 
Population 
Estimate 
(% SEE) 
Between-Patient
Variability 
(% SEE) 
Clearance 
TVCL, base parameter for CL (ml/min) 
Θ1, parameter for effect of CGCL on CL (ml/min) a 
Central Volume of Distribution 
TVV1, base parameter for V1 (L) 
Θ2, parameter for effect of BSA on V1 b 
Intercompartmental Clearance 
Parameter for Q (ml/min) 
Peripheral Volume of Distribution 
Parameter for V2 (L) 
Residual Error (proportional) 
43.0 (16.6) 
47.2 (14.8) 
6.13 (9.04) 
1.32 (11.6) 
19.3 % (14.1) 
16.6 % (29.3) 
14.5 (17.6) 
--- 
3.38 (10.9) 
24.5 % (24.6) 
28.4 % (8.22) 
a CL = TVCL + Θ1×CGCL/92.6 where 92.6 is the median baseline CGCL. 
b V1=TVV1×BSA Θ2 
Abbreviations : SEE = standard error of the estimate 
Method : FOCE with interaction 
Dose proportionality was also evaluated using population pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 244 
to  1494  mg  (126  to  838  mg/m2).    Results  from  this  analysis  demonstrated  that  pemetrexed 
pharmacokinetics  were  linear  (that  is,  dose-independent  over  the  range  of  doses  studied).    This 
indicates that pemetrexed total systemic exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) 
increase proportionally with dose. 
The influence of duration of therapy was evaluated and indicated that pemetrexed clearance decreased 
4.3% and V1 increased 10% for later treatment cycles (Cycle 3 or 4) relative to Treatment Cycle 1.  
These  differences,  although  statistically  significant,  are  small  (not  clinically  relevant)  and  are  much 
less than within-patient variability. 
Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
Pemetrexed pharmacokinetics were evaluated in 47 patients who had varying degrees of renal function 
(Study JMAW). Glomerular filtration rate, measured by Tc99m-DPTA serum clearance, varied from 
19 ml/min to 151 ml/min. The study was initiated without vitamin supplementation; the protocol was 
amended during the study to include folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation. Creatinine clearance 
calculated by the standard Cockcroft-Gault method (CrClCG,std) [77] was found to provide a better 
approximation to the measured renal function using Tc99m-DPTA serum clearance than compared to 
lean  body  mass  formula  (CrClCG,LBM).  A  proportional  relationship  was  observed  between 
pemetrexed plasma clearance and renal clearance with measured GFR and CrClCG,std in patients with 
renal  impairment  (GFR  19  to  79  ml/min).  No  statistically  significant  relationship  was  observed  for 
patients  with  normal  renal  function  (GFR  >80  ml/min).  Mean  plasma  and  renal  clearance  values 
exhibited over a 2-fold decrease in patients with moderate renal impairment relative to patients with 
normal renal function. Additionally, the ratio of mean renal clearance to the product of the fraction of 
drug  unbound  in  plasma  (fu)  with  GFR  (fu•GFR)  values  increased  from  1.5  to  2.1  with  an 
improvement in renal function in patients with moderate renal impairment to the lower limit of normal 
renal function. Therefore, it appears that tubular secretion became more prominent as renal function 
improved  or  the  contribution  of  reabsorption  decreased  as  renal  function  improved.  Mean  percent 
bound ranged from 73.4% to 81.0%. Although pemetrexed clearance varied almost 10 fold over the 
range of renal function, pemetrexed given at the recommended clinical dose of 500 mg/m2 was well-
tolerated in patients with GFR as low as 40 ml/min. 
The  final  population  pharmacokinetic  model  indicated  that  pemetrexed  clearance  was  dependent  on 
creatinine  clearance  as  estimated  by  the  CrClCG,std  incorporating  age,  body  weight,  and  serum 
21/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
creatinine  concentration.  A  combined  evaluation  of  pemetrexed  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with 
renal insufficiency included 127 patients with reduced renal function from the 10 single-agent Phase 2 
studies,  the  pivotal  Phase  3  study  in  combination  with  cisplatin  (JMCH),  and  the  Phase  1  renal 
impairment  study  (JMAW).  Estimates  of  pemetrexed  CL  and  total  systemic  exposure  (AUC) 
following a 500 mg/m2 dose for the “typical” patient (population average; creatinine clearance based 
on the CrClCG,std 90 ml/min) and a renally impaired (CrClCG,std 45 ml/min) patient are provided in 
Table  4.  A  patient  with  a  creatinine  clearance  of  45 ml/min  would  be  expected  to  have  36%  lower 
pemetrexed  clearance  relative  to  the  population  average,  which  would  result  in  a  56%  increase  in 
overall exposure. 
Table 4. Summary of mean predicted pemetrexed cl and AUC for a 500 mg/m2 dose by renal 
function 
Study JMAW 
Combined 
Creatinine 
Clearance a 
(ml/min) 
90 
45 
Pemetrexed 
CL 
82.1 
46.2 
Abbreviations:  AUC = area under the curve; CL = clearance. 
a  Estimated creatinine clearance using standard Cockcroft-Gault method (Cockcroft and Gault 1976). 
Pemetrexed 
AUC 
159 
248 
Pemetrexed 
AUC 
178 
316 
Pemetrexed 
CL 
91.8 
58.8 
Impaired liver function 
Because the drug is eliminated primarily by renal excretion of unchanged drug, and metabolism plays 
a  negligible  role  in  clearance  of  the  drug,  no  specific  study  was  performed  in  patients  with  hepatic 
dysfunction. The relationships between ALT (SGPT), AST (SGOT), and total bilirubin as indicators 
of  hepatic  dysfunction,  and  pemetrexed  pharmacokinetics  were  evaluated  in  the  population 
pharmacokinetics  analyses.  No  association  was  observed  between  pemetrexed  disposition  and  ALT 
over a range from 5 to 495 upper limit (U/L), AST over a range from 5 to 204 U/L, or total bilirubin 
over a range of 3 to 34.2 µmol/L (data not shown). 
Gender, race, weight, age 
No  important  association  between  gender  or  age  (range  26  to  80  years)  and  pemetrexed 
pharmacokinetics  was  observed.  No  data  in  children  are  available.  The  index  dataset  consisted  of 
predominantly Caucasian 160 (77%) patients with 35 (11%) of African descent, 2 (1%) Asian, 2 (1%) 
Hispanic,  and  10  (11%)  having  undefined  ethnic  origin.  No  important  association  between  ethnic 
origin  and  pemetrexed  disposition  was  observed.  Pemetrexed  central  volume  of  distribution  is 
dependant  on  body  surface  area  in  an  exponential  fashion  (see  Clinical  aspects,  Pharmacokinetics,  
Distribution). Because BSA is a predictor of V1 and not  CL, the effect of BSA is reflected in peak 
pemetrexed concentration and not on overall exposure to the drug (AUC). 
Extrinsic factors, and interaction studies 
No  associations  between  smoking  or  self-reported  alcohol  consumption  and  pemetrexed  disposition 
were observed. 
Studies  to  determine  whether  pemetrexed  is  a  substrate  for  CYP450  enzymes  have  not  been  carried 
out.  The  ability  of  pemetrexed  to  inhibit  the  metabolism  of  marker  catalytic  activities  for  the  main 
cytochrome P450 isoenzymes was performed in vitro with human liver microsomes (see Metabolism). 
The  effect  of  aspirin  and  non  steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs  on  pemetrexed  clearance  were 
investigated because of the established interaction between aspirin/NSAIDs and methotrexate, and due 
to the structural similarity of pemetrexed with methotrexate. Study JMAW was a phase I dose-finding 
study  in  patients  with  advanced  cancers  of  various  types  having  varying  degrees  of  renal  function. 
Pursuant  to  Protocol  Addendum  JMAW2b,  additional  patients  (24)  with  glomerular  filtration  rate 
(GRF  ≥  60ml/min)  received  pemetrexed  500  mg/m2  alone  and  in  combination  with  aspirin  (325  mg 
orally  every  6  hours  )  or  ibuprofen  (2×200mg  orally  every  6  hours).  Aspirin  and  ibuprofen  were 
administered  2  days  prior  to  pemetrexed  administration  and  the  last  dose  given  1  hour  prior 
pemetrexed administration. The assessment of the influence of pemetrexed on aspirin and ibuprofen 
was not performed. 
22/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
No  significant  association  between  co-administration  of  aspirin  325mg  every  6  hours  and 
pharmacokinetics  of  pemetrexed  was  observed.  Interactions  between  pemetrexed  and  aspirin 
administered at high doses have not been investigated. 
When  pemetrexed  is  administered  concomitantly  with  ibuprofen  1.6  mg  daily,  a  statistically 
significant increase in pemetrexed AUC (20%) and Cmax, (15%) occured as well as a a statistically 
significant reduction in clearance (CL) (17%). 
Discussion on pharmacokinetics 
Pemetrexed  pharmacokinetics  are  linear.  Pemetrexed  total  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  and  maximum 
plasma concentration increase proportionally with dose.  
Pemetrexed is approximately 81% bound to plasma proteins. The binding of pemetrexed to individual 
components of plasma such as albumin, alpha-1 glycoprotein, etc. was not evaluated. Pemetrexed did 
not appear to influence total platinum plasma clearance (CLp) and steady state volume of distribution 
(Vss),  Nevertheless,  since  cisplatin  is  98%  bound  to  albumin  in  plasma,  there  is  a  concern  that  if 
pemetrexed  is  also  bound  to  albumin  and  has  a  high  affinity  for  this  protein,  a  displacement  of 
cisplatin  to  albumin  may  occur  and  lead  to  an  increase  of  cisplatin  exposure  and  toxicity.  The 
applicant  has  committed  to  evaluate  the  protein  binding  of  pemetrexed  to  individual  principal 
components of human plasma such as albumin and p-alpha glycoprotein. 
Pemetrexed  is  mainly  eliminated  unchanged  renally  by  tubular  secretion  and  to  a  lesser  extent  by 
glomerular  filtration.  Caution  should  be  used  with  concomitant  administration  of  pemetrexed  and 
nephrotoxic  drugs  (e.g.  aminoglycoside,  loop  diuretics,  platinum  compounds,  cyclosporin)  or  
substances  that  are  also  tubularly  secreted  (e.g.  probenecid,  penicillin).  If  necessary,  creatinine 
clearance should be closely monitored. Adequate warnings have been included in the SPC (see section 
4.5).  
The fraction excreted unchanged into urine appeared to decrease progressively with severity of renal 
insufficiency.  Renal  function  is  the  best  predictor  of  overall  systemic  exposure.  Prior  to  each 
chemotherapy administration blood chemistry tests should be collected to evaluate renal (and hepatic) 
function. No dosing adjustments are required as long as patients have creatinine clearance of at least 
45  ml/min.  Due  to  the  gastrointestinal  toxicity  of  pemetrexed  given  in  combination  with  cisplatin, 
severe  dehydration  has  been  observed.  Therefore,  when  pemetrexed  is  combined  with  cisplatin, 
patients  must  receive  adequate  antiemetic  treatment  and  appropriate  hydration  prior  to  and/or  after 
receiving  cisplatin.  There  are  insufficient  data  on  the  use  of  pemetrexed  in  patients  with  creatinine 
clearance  below  45 ml/min;  therefore  the  use  of  pemetrexed  is  not  recommended.  These 
recommendations  are  adequately  reflected  in  the  SPC  (see  section  4.2).  Overall,  pemetrexed 
pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  impaired  renal  function  have  been  adequately  investigated,  and 
reported [78]. 
Pemetrexed  undergoes  limited  hepatic  metabolism.  Results  from  in  vitro  studies  with  human  liver 
microsomes indicated that pemetrexed would not be predicted to cause clinically significant inhibition 
of  the  metabolic  clearance  of  drugs  metabolised  by  CYP3A,  CYP2D6,  CYP2C9,  and  CYP1A2,  as 
reflected in the SPC (section 4.5). Enzyme induction studies with pemetrexed have not been carried 
out. Lack of specific pharmacokinetic studies in patients with hepatic dysfunction has been adequately 
justified  because  pemetrexed  is  primarily  eliminated  unchanged  by  renal  excretion,  and  metabolism 
plays  a  negligible  role.  No  relationships  between  AST  (SGOT),  ALT  (SGPT),  or  total  bilirubin  and 
pemetrexed  pharmacokinetics  were  identified.  However  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  such  as 
bilirubin  > 1.5  times  the  upper  limit  of  normal  and/or  transaminase  > 3.0  times  the  upper  limit  of 
normal  (hepatic  metastases  absent)  or  > 5.0  times  the  upper  limit  of  normal  (hepatic  metastases 
present) have not been specifically studied. This has been reflected in the SPC (see section 4.2). 
It is known that the combination of methotrexate with aspirin or non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
as  ibuprofen,  decreases  the  renal  clearance  of  methotrexate,  and  consequently,  increases  the 
haematoxicity of methotrexate.  
In patients with normal renal function (creatinine clearance > 80 ml/min), high doses of non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen > 1600 mg/day) and aspirin at higher dosage (> 
1.3  g  daily)  may  decrease  pemetrexed  elimination  and,  consequently,  increase  the  occurrence  of 
23/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
pemetrexed  adverse  events.  Therefore,  caution  should  be  made  when  administering  higher  doses  of 
NSAIDs  or  aspirin  at  higher  dosage,  concurrently  with  pemetrexed  to  patients with  normal  function 
(creatinine  clearance > 80  ml/min). In  patients with  mild to  moderate renal insufficiency (creatinine 
clearance  from  45  to  79  ml/min),  the  concomitant  administration  of  pemetrexed  with  NSAIDs  (e.g. 
ibuprofen) or aspirin at higher dosage should be avoided for 2 days before, on the day of, and 2 days 
following  pemetrexed  administration.  In  the  absence  of  data  regarding  potential  interaction  with 
NSAIDs  having  longer  half-lives  as  piroxicam  or  rofecoxib,  the  concomitant  administration  with 
pemetrexed should be avoided for at least 5 days prior to, on the day, and at least 2 days following 
pemetrexed administration (see SPC section 4.4 and 4.5). 
European PK Guidelines recommend to assess the absence of interaction between two drugs indicated 
to be used in association [79]. Pharmacokinetics analyses of pemetrexed and cisplatin were performed 
in  the  Phase  I  study  JMAP,  and  in  a  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  from  the  phase  III  study 
JMCH  in  MPM.  No  significant  influence  of  concomitant  cisplatin  administration  on  pemetrexed 
clearance was observed (data not shown). The pharmacokinetics of total platinum were consistent with 
published  literature  values  for  single-agent  cisplatin  administration  [80-82].  However,  a  specific 
analysis  of  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ultrafilterable  platinum  allowing  to  predict  a  potential 
interaction between the two agents was lacking.  
No  significant  influence  of  folic  acid  or  vitamin  B12  administration  on  pemetrexed  clearance  was 
identified (data not shown).  
In conclusion, the pharmacokinetics of pemetrexed have been adequately investigated and reported, in 
agreement  with  applicable  guidelines  and  requirements  [60,  83].  Potential  pharmacokinetic  drug 
interaction have been adequately investigated and reported [79]. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  analyses  for  pemetrexed  focused  on  exploring  relationships  between  measures  of 
hematologic toxicity (nadirs of neutrophil counts) with indices of systemic drug exposure (Cmax and 
AUC0-∞).  In  8  Phase  2  studies  included  in  the  population  pharmacodynamic  analyses,  pemetrexed 
was administered as a 10-minute i.v. infusion every 21 days. Initial doses (Cycle 1) were 500 to 600 
mg/m2. Dose adjustment (reduction) at the start of subsequent courses of therapy were based on nadir 
counts or maximal nonhematologic toxicity from the preceding cycle of therapy. The time course of 
ANC  was  adequately  characterized  by  a  seven-compartment  semi-physiologic  mechanistic 
pharmacokinetic/ pharmacodynamic model [84]. 
Between-patient  variability  was  adequately  characterized  based  on  precision  of  variance  parameter 
estimates (30.3% with 32.7 %standard error of the estimate, SEE for BAS, 9.85% with 28.7 %SEE for 
MTT,  45.6%  with  29.0  %SEE  for  the  DS  parameter,  and  27.6%   with  38.4  %SEE  for  the  FP).  The 
“typical” patient receiving 500 mg/m2 pemetrexed was predicted to have a nadir absolute neutrophil 
count (NANC) of 1.77•109/L and had approximately 50% probability of remaining at CTC Grade 0 
toxicity  (above  2•109/L)  following  pemetrexed  administration.  Systemic  drug  exposure  was  the 
dominant  predictor  of  absolute  neutrophil  response  to  pemetrexed.  Increased  homocysteine  and 
cystathionine were associated with lower NANC. There appeared to have been no change in the effect 
of pemetrexed on NANC following multiple treatment cycles. 
Gender  had  no  significant  effect  on  absolute  neutrophil  response  to  pemetrexed  administration.  Age 
(range  26  to  79  years)  had  no  significant  effect  on  absolute  neutrophil  response  to  pemetrexed 
administration. Caucasians and patients of African descent had similar absolute neutrophil response to 
pemetrexed administration. Insufficient data were available to generalize for other ethnic groups (for 
example,  Asian,  Hispanic).  Alcohol  consumption  did  not  affect  absolute  neutrophil  response  to 
pemetrexed  administration.  Smoking  did  not  affect  absolute  neutrophil  response  to  pemetrexed 
administration. 
Discussion on pharmacodynamics 
Systemic  drug  exposure  was  the  dominant  predictor  of  absolute  neutrophil  response  to  pemetrexed. 
Dosing  based  on  renal  function  (creatinine  clearance)  has  been  considered.  Safety  results  from  the 
clinical  studies  (See  Clinical  Safety)  have  shown  that  there  was  no  evidence  that  decreasing  renal 
function  was  associated  with  increasing  toxicities  when  pemetrexed  was  administered  alone  or  in 
24/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
combination  with  cisplatin.  Hence,  no  dosing  adjustments  are  required  as  long  as  patients  have 
creatinine  clearance  of  at  least  45  ml/min.  A  minimum  CrCl  of  45  ml/min  is  recommended  before 
pemetrexed  administration  for  all  patients  (including  patients  with  decreased  renal  function  due  to 
age). Adequate dosing recommendations and warnings have been provided in the SPC (see Section 4.2 
and 4.4) 
Increased homocysteine and cystathionine, which are predictive of vitamin B12 and folate deficiency 
[85,  86],  were  associated  with  lower  nadir  absolute  neutrophil  count  (NANC)  with  pemetrexed.  A 
correlation between high serum homocysteine and increased risk of Grade 4 neutropenia with Grade 3 
or 4 infection, and Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea for pemetrexed has been reported [87]. Exploratory analyses 
of  study  JMCH  showed  that  overall  Grade  3/4  toxicities  were  reported  less  frequently  in  the  fully 
supplemented  patients  than  the  non-supplemented  patients  with  statistically  significant  differences 
occurring  for  leukocytes,  nausea,  vomiting,  and  febrile  neutropenia.  Integrated  safety  analyses  of 
single-agent  pemetrexed  showed  significanct  differences  in  Grade  3  or  4  neutropenia  and 
thrombocytopenia when supplemented patients are compared with nonsupplemented patients at either 
500 or 600 mg/m2 dose of pemetrexed. 
In  conclusion,  the  results  from  these  analyses  support  the  use  of  vitamin  supplementation  to  ensure 
normal  vitamin  B12  and  folate  status  to  control  hematologic  toxicity  secondary  to  pemetrexed 
administration. Folinic acid and folic acid are both systemically metabolized to active folate cofactors. 
Folinic acid, or folic acid in high doses, result in supranormal plasma concentrations of active folate 
cofactors  that  can  cause  the  displacement  of  accumulated  antifolate  compounds  from  tissues. 
Conversely,  low-dose  folic  acid  supplementation  providing  adequate  pools  of  active  cofactors  in 
tissues  can  prevent  uptake,  polyglutamation  and  target  interaction  of  antifolates.  Low-dose 
supplementation  has  been  shown  to  reduced  pemetrexed  toxicity  with  preservation  of  pemetrexed 
antitumor  activity  [88].  Normal  tissues  have  lower  folate  requirements  than  tumor  tissues  [89,  90]. 
Vitamin supplementation might satisfy the need in normal tissue but not in tumor tissue. This theory 
might explain how dose limiting toxicity of pemetrexed can be reduced by folic acid while at the same 
preserving pemetrexed efficacy. 
Clinical efficacy 
Dose-finding  studies,  and  the  clinical  studies  submitted  to  support  the  demonstration  efficacy  in  the 
MPM and NSCLC indications are reviewed and discussed separately in the following sections. 
Dose finding studies 
Single-agent pemetrexed 
Three  Phase  1  dose-escalation  studies  were  conducted  (JMAA,  JMAB,  BP-001)  The  initially 
recommended  dose  of  pemetrexed  for  Phase  2  trials  was  600 mg/m2  on  Day 1  every  21  days  was 
based on study JMAA [91]. Pemetrexed was administered as a 10-minute i.v. infusion every 21 days 
over a dose range of 50 to 700 mg/m2, without folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation. The MTD 
from this dosage regimen was determined to be 600 mg/m2. The main dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) 
were neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and chronic fatigue.  
Doses of 500 and 600 mg/m2 were evaluated in a variety of subsequent Phase 2 studies in various solid 
tumor  types.  However,  toxicities  observed  in  a  Phase  2  colorectal  study  led  to  a  decrease  in  the 
pemetrexed  dose  to  500 mg/m2  on  Day  1  every  21  days.  Initial  analyses  using  a  multiple  logistic 
regression model were able to quantify the relative risk of developing toxicities with pemetrexed and 
generated a validated clinical hypothesis on ways to improve the safety profile of pemetrexed.  Levels 
of  pretreatment  total  plasma  homocysteine  and  methylmalonic  acid  significantly  predicted  Grade  4 
neutropenia, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, Grade 3/4 diarrhea, and Grade 3/4  mucositis.  Thus, it was 
postulated that reducing homocysteine levels with folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation would 
reduce severe toxicities. Further prospective trials with vitamin supplementation demonstrated that the 
pemetrexed safety profile was improved [87]. 
Study JMAB was a Phase 1 study in patients with various solid tumors of pemetrexed administered as 
a  bolus  intravenously  every  7  days,  over  a  dose  range  of  10  to  40  mg/m2,  without  folic  acid  and 
vitamin B12 supplementation. The MTD was determined to be 30 mg/m2. Inability to maintain weekly 
treatment due to neutropenia limited dose escalation in this study. Study BP001 was a Phase 1 study in 
25/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
patients with various solid tumors of pemetrexed administered as a 10-minute i.v. infusion once a day 
for 5 consecutive days, followed by 16 days of rest, to complete a 21-day cycle, over a dose range of 
0.2  to  5.2  mg/m2.  The  MTD  was  determined  to  be  4.0  mg/m2,  with  neutropenia  as  the  most 
predominant DLT. This dosing regimen was not studied further due to lack of efficacy. 
Pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin 
H3E-MC-JMAP  was  a  single-center  Phase  1  study  of  pemetrexed  and  cisplatin  on  Day  1  every  21 
days  in  patients  with  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  solid  tumors  who  could  have  received  prior 
chemotherapy. The study was extended and additional patients were enrolled in order to collect data 
regarding  the  administration  of  pemetrexed  on  Day  1  and  cisplatin  on  Day  2.  Pemetrexed  was 
administered at dose levels ranging from 300 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2 in conjunction with varying dose 
levels of cisplatin (from 60 mg/m2 to 100 mg/m2). A total of 54 patients were enrolled in the study and 
of these 51 patients received study drug. The majority of patients were male and had a Performance 
Status of 1. In the initial treatment schedule (both pemetrexed and cisplatin administered on Day 1), 
the  MTD-defining  toxicity  of  CTC  Grade  4  thrombocytopenia  was  at  Dose  Level  6  (600  mg/m2 
pemetrexed and 100 mg/m2 cisplatin). Dose Level 5 was initially chosen for Phase 2 studies. However, 
due to toxicities observed in two National Cancer Institute Canada Clinical Trials Group single-agent 
Phase  2  studies  (H3EMC-JMAO  and  H3E-MC-JMAN),  the  recommended  Phase  2/3  dose  for  this 
combination became 500 mg/m2 pemetrexed and 75 mg/m2 cisplatin. In the study extension segment 
(pemetrexed  administered  on  Day  1  and  cisplatin  administered  on  Day  2),  the  MTD  and  the 
recommended Phase 2 dose for the study extension segment is Dose Level 4 (500 mg/m2 pemetrexed 
and  75  mg/m2  cisplatin).  Myelosuppression  was  noted  at  all  dose  levels  and,  in  all  cases,  was 
considered to be possibly or probably related to study therapy but not dose-related. One study drug-
related death occurred at each of the 2 levels tested in this extended cohort compared with no study 
drug-related deaths in the original cohort. Thus, the schedule investigated in Cohort 2 – pemetrexed on 
Day 1 and cisplatin on Day 2 – was concluded to be more toxic. Therefore, the recommended schedule 
for further studies was administration of pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin on Day 1. Of the 51 
patients who received study drug, 1 patient experienced a complete response, 14 patients had a partial 
response, 21 patients had stable disease, and 10 patients had progressive disease as their best response. 
In  11  patients  with  MPM  evaluable  for  response,  5  partial  responses  were  observed.  Plasma 
concentration  data  were  collected  on  15  patients  (10  males  and  5  females)  in  this  study.  4  patients 
received initial treatment schedule and 11 patients received extended treatment schedule. Although the 
sample  size  was  small,  the  applicant  claimed  that  concomitant  administration  of  pemetrexed  and 
cisplatin regimen did not appear to alter the pharmacokinetics profile of each drug. 
H3E-MC-JMAU was a dose-finding Phase 1 study of pemetrexed in combination with carboplatin in 
patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma [92-96]. 
Main studies (malignant pleural mesothelioma) 
Study  JMCH  (“EMPHACIS”),  was  an  international,  multicenter,  single-blind,  randomized  Phase  3 
trial of pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin versus cisplatin monotherapy in patients with MPM 
who had received no prior chemotherapeutic regimens [97].  
Patients and methods 
• 
Study participants – eligibility criteria 
Patients with histologically proven pleural mesothelioma who were not candidates for curative surgery 
were  assessed  for  eligibility.  Histological  diagnosis  was  based  on  local  pathology;  however, 
independent centralized pathology review was carried out on all patients, if feasible. 
Eligibility requirements included uni- or bidimensionally measurable disease, age ≥18 years with life 
expectancy ≥12 weeks, and a Karnofsky performance status of ≥ 70, signed informed consent from the 
patient.  Patients  were  not  eligible  if  they  had  prior  chemotherapy,  a  second  primary  malignancy,  or 
brain metastases, or if they were unable to interrupt nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Patients had 
to  have  adequate  organ  function  (ANC  ≥1.5×109/L,  platelets  ≥100×109/L,  hemoglobin  ≥9  g/dL, 
bilirubin ≤1.5 times the ULN, alkaline phosphatase, AST and ALT ≤3.0 times the ULN, or ≤5 times 
the ULN if there was tumor involvement in the liver, albumin ≥2.5 g/dL, CrCl ≥45 ml/min by using 
26/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
the lean body mass formula only) [98]. Patients with reproductive potential must have been using an 
approved contraceptive method if appropriate during and for 3 months after the study. 
• 
Treatments 
Pemetrexed  was  administered  i.v.  at  500  mg/m2  over  10  minutes,  followed  30  minutes  later  by 
cisplatin 75 mg/m2 i.v. over 2 hours on day 1 of a 21-day cycle. Patients assigned to the cisplatin arm 
were  treated  likewise,  except  normal  saline  was  given  in  the  place  of  pemetrexed  at  equivalent 
volume. For both arms a regimen was defined as six cycles of therapy. In response to an unacceptable 
level  of  toxicity  (particularly  Grade  4  neutropenia  with  Grade  3  or  4  infection,  and  Grade  3  or  4 
diarrhea)  and  pemetrexed-related  death,  the  applicant  conducted  several  analyses  to  illustrate  the 
relationship  between  folate  status  and  severe  pemetrexed-related  toxicity  [87].  Using  homocysteine 
level as a marker for folate deficiency, the applicant showed this marker to be highly correlated with 
several key toxicities. The applicant then decided, with the guidance of experts in folate metabolism, 
to  require  all  patients  in  pemetrexed  trials  to  take  folic  acid  and  vitamin  B12  for  supplementation 
(JMCH protocol amendment C). Folic acid 350 to 1,000 µg was taken orally daily beginning 1 to 3 
weeks before the first chemotherapy doses, continued throughout study and for 1 to 3 weeks after the 
patient  discontinued  the  treatment.  Vitamin  B12  1,000  µg  was  given  intramuscularly  1  to  3  weeks 
before  the  first  dose  of  study  therapy  and  repeated  every  9  weeks  until  the  patient  discontinued  the 
study  therapy.  In  addition,  based  on  the  early  clinical  experience  with  pemetrexed  and  reported 
cutaneous toxicity, dexamethasone was chosen as primary prophylaxis for skin rash. Dexamethasone 
(4 mg orally twice a day) was given the day before, day of, and day after pemetrexed dosing to reduce 
the risk of severe skin rash. Both vitamin supplementation and dexamethasone were given to patients 
in  both  arms  to  maintain  patient  blinding  to  study  therapy.  Other chemotherapy,  immunotherapy,  or 
hormonal therapy was not permitted. Supportive care therapies were allowed per protocol during the 
study. 
Dose adjustments for hematologic toxicity were based on a stepwise reduction schedule. Grade 3 or 4 
mucositis, diarrhea requiring hospitalization, or grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic effects also resulted in 
dose reduction for subsequent doses. Dose escalations were not allowed. 
• 
Objectives / Endpoints 
The primary objective of this study was to compare survival in chemonaive patients with malignant 
pleural  mesothelioma  (MPM)  when  treated  with  pemetrexed  plus  cisplatin  combination  therapy  to 
survival in the same patient population when treated with cisplatin alone. Survival was defined as the 
time from randomization to time of death from any cause.  
The  secondary  objectives  were  to  compare  tumor  response  rate,  duration  of  response,  time  to 
progressive  disease,  time  to  treatment  failure  between  treatment  arms.  The  response  criteria  were 
define  using  a  combination  of  modified  Southwest  Oncology  Group  (SWOG)  [99]  criteria  and 
RECIST  [100]  response  criteria,  for  bidimensionally  and  unidimensionally  measurable  lesions, 
respectively. A responder was defined as any patient who had a complete response (CR) or a partial 
response  (PR).  All  responses  were  documented  by  using  appropriate  diagnostic  tests  that  were 
repeated  approximately  every  6  weeks  to  continue  evaluation  using  consistent  methods  and 
independent  response  review.  The  duration  of  response  was  defined  as  the  time  from  first  objective 
assessment of response to disease progression, or death because of any cause. 
Other  secondary  endpoints  were  clinical  benefit  (CB)  response  rate  was  evaluated  by  using  an 
algorithm of performance status, analgesic consumption, patient-reported pain intensity, and dyspnea. 
Lung  Cancer  Symptom  Scale  (LCSS),  pulmonary  function  test  scores  (forced  vital  capacity,  vital 
capacity,  forced  expiratory  volume),  lung  density,  toxicity.  Additional  secondary  objectives  of  this 
study  were  to  assess  toxicity  between  patients  who  received  folic  acid  and  vitamin  B12 
supplementation and patients who did not, to assess PK effects, and to collect information regarding 
vitamin deficiency markers (homocysteine, methylmalonic acid, cystathionine)  
• 
Sample size and Interim analysis 
The sample size indicated in the first protocol is 150 total patients (75 per treatment arm) with tumour 
response as primary endpoint. Thereafter, prior to enrollment of the first patient, the primary endpoint 
was  amended  to  overall  survival.  The  sample  size  was  changed  to  ensure  80%  power  to  detect  a 
27/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
hazard ratio of .67 (a 33% reduction in the hazard ratio) based on a two-sided log rank test (α = 0.05). 
The number  of deaths required is 197, and an enrolment of 280 patients (140 patients per arm) was 
planned.  Supplementation  was  implemented  after  118  patients  had  been  randomized,  of  these  117 
were treated. After supplementation was implemented, enrollment was extended to ensure that at least 
280  fully  supplemented  (FS)  patients  were  included,  allowing  adequate  power  for  a  secondary 
subgroup  analysis  (the  population  for  the  interim  and  final  analysis  remained  the  entire  population, 
regardless of supplementation status). For this purpose, two distinct patient groups were defined. One 
group  of  patients  was  classified  as  FS  if  they  were  randomized  to  a  treatment  group  on  or  after  02 
December 1999. The intent was that these patients would begin supplementation during the baseline 
period and continue during their entire course of treatment. The second group included patients who 
were partially supplemented (PS) and who were never supplemented (NS); this group was classified as 
non supplemented (PS+NS) if they were randomized to a treatment group before 02 December 1999. 
A prospectively planned interim analysis of survival was conducted and presented on 23 July 2001 to 
the  Data  Monitoring  Board  (DMB).  This  analysis  was  based  on  296  patients  who  received  therapy 
(FS, PS, and NS patients). 
• 
Randomization 
Randomization  was  dynamically  balanced  [101]  for  the  following  factors:  performance  status  (KPS 
≥90  v.  <90),  degree  of  measurability  of  disease  (unidimensional  v.  other),  histologic  subtype 
(epithelial  v.  other),  baseline  WBC  (WBC  ≥8.3  109/L  v.  <8.3  109),  pain  intensity  at  entry  (baseline 
score  <20  mm  on  the  visual  analog  scale  of  Question  6  in  the  LCSS  patient  scale  v.  ≥20  mm), 
analgesic consumption at entry (baseline score <60 mg morphine equivalents per day, only NSAIDs, 
or  no  analgesic  consumption  v.  ≥60  mg),  dyspnea  at  entry  (baseline  score  <20  mm  on  the  VAS  of 
Question  4  in  the  LCSS  patient  scale  v.  ≥20  mm),  baseline  homocysteine  levels  (baseline 
homocysteine  ≥12 µmol/L v.<12 µmol/L), gender, country, and treatment center. It was anticipated 
that most patients enrolled into study JMCH would be stage III/IV patients. Therefore, stratifying at 
randomisation for stage I/II versus stage III/IV was not considered useful. 
• 
Methods of efficacy analyses / statistical analysis 
The primary analysis was comparison of survival time between the study arms in the RT population. 
The RT population was defined as all patients randomly assigned to a treatment arm and who started 
to  receive  at  least  one  dose  of  study  therapy.  Differences  were  assessed  using  a  two-sided  log  rank 
test.  Because  an  interim  analysis  of  efficacy  (α    =  0.01)  was  conducted  (resulting  in  a  decision  to 
continue the trial to planned completion), the comparison of survival was tested at the α=0.0476 level.  
Results 
• 
Participant flow and numbers analysed 
Study JMCH included 88 investigational sites. The majority of patients enrolled into this study were 
from the United States, Germany, France, and Australia. Of the 456 patients randomly assigned to a 
treatment arm, 448 (98.2%) received LY/cis (n=226) or cisplatin monotherapy (n=222) (Figure 1). 
28/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Figure 1. Disposition of patients who entered Study JMCH 
These  patients  constitute  the  RT  population.  Treatment  arms  were  well  balanced  with  respect  to 
baseline characteristics. Patients were predominantly male and white, with a median age of 61 years 
(range,  19  to  85  years).  Approximately  two  thirds  of  the  patients  had  epithelial  histology,  whereas 
78%  had  stage  III  or  stage  IV  disease  (Table  5).  The  most  common  site  of  disease  included  was 
pleural rind (98.3% in the tested arm and 97.8% in the control arm).  
Table 5. Baseline characteristics for the analysis populations (Study JMCH) 
All randomized and 
treated (RT) 
Full supplementation 
(FS) 
Full or partial 
supplementation (FS+PS)
Pem/Cisp 
Cisp 
Pem/Cisp 
Cisp 
Pem/Cisp 
Cisp 
(n = 226) 
(n =222) 
(n = 168) 
(n =163) 
(n=194) 
(n=184) 
Age, years  Median 
61 
60 
60 
60 
61 
60 
Range 
29-85 
19-84 
29-85 
19-82 
29-85 
19-82 
Gender 
Male No. (%) 
184 (81.4) 
181 (81.5) 
136 (81) 
134 (82.2)  158 (81.4)  152 (82.6)
Female No. (%) 
42 (18.6) 
41 (18.5) 
32 (19) 
29 (17.8) 
36 (18.6) 
32 (17.4) 
Race 
White No. (%) 
204 (90.3) 
206 (92.8)  150 (89.3)  153 (93.9)  173 (89.2)  172 (93.5)
Other* No. (%) 
22 (9.7) 
16 (7.2) 
18 (10.7) 
10 (6.1) 
21 (10.8) 
12 (6.5) 
Performance 
status 
70 No. (%) 
80 No. (%) 
37 (16.4) 
31 (14) 
25 (14.9) 
22 (13.5) 
28 (14.4) 
25 (13.6) 
72 (31.9) 
66 (29.7) 
58 (34.5) 
47 (28.8) 
65 (33.5) 
54 (29.3) 
90/100 No. (%) 
117 (51.8) 
125 (56.3) 
85 (50.6) 
94 (57.7) 
101 (52.1)  105 (57.1)
29/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Histology a  Epithelial No. (%) 
154 (68.1) 
152 (68.5)  117 (69.6)  113 (69.3)  135 (69.6) 
127 (69) 
Sarcomatoid No. (%) 
18 (8) 
25 (11.3) 
14 (8.3) 
17 (10.4) 
16 (8.2) 
20 (10.9) 
Mixed cell No. (%) 
37 (16.4) 
36 (16.2) 
25 (14.9) 
25 (15.3) 
29 (14.9) 
29 (15.8) 
Unspecified No. (%) 
17 (7.5) 
9 (4.1) 
12 (7.1) 
8 (4.9) 
14 (7.2) 
8 (4.3) 
Stage 
I No. (%) 
16 (7.1) 
14 (6.3) 
15 (8.9) 
12 (7.4) 
16 (8.2) 
12 (6.5) 
II No. (%) 
III No. (%) 
IV No. (%) 
35 (15.6) 
33 (15) 
27 (16.2) 
27 (16.8) 
32 (16.5) 
29 (15.8) 
73 (32.4) 
68 (30.9) 
51 (30.5) 
49 (30.4) 
63 (32.5) 
58 (31.5) 
* Includes Hispanics, Asians, and patients of African descent. . a 
† Includes patients with unspecified stage (one patient in Pem/Cisp arm and two patients in Cisp arm). 
Abbreviations: Pem, pemetrexed; Cisp, cisplatin. 
102† (45.1) 107† (48.2) 75† (44.6) 
83 (42.8) 
85 (46.2) 
75† (46) 
According to local diagnosis. 
• 
Efficacy results 
At the cut-off for the primary analysis for survival, the median follow up was 9.3 months (range 0.1-
29.2  months).  The  median  overall  survival  time  was  12.1  months  versus  9.3  months,  for 
pemetrexed/cisplatin  versus  cisplatin,  respectively  in  the  RT  population.  A  statistically  significant 
difference  in  the  distribution  of  survival  times  was  observed  abetween  the  two  treatments  (log-rank 
P=0.020).  
Cox  regression  was  used  to  perform  a  secondary  analysis  of  survival  time,  adjusting  for  important 
prognostic  factors.  As  per  protocol,  14  baseline  variables  were  considered  as  potential  prognostic 
factors.  After  model  selection  based  on  likelihood  testing,  a  statistically  significant  treatment  effect 
was  shown (P =0.002). Other factors significantly (P <0.05) associated with increased survival time 
were supplementation (fully or partially), good KPS (KPS 90 or 100), early disease stage (stage I or 
II), and epithelial histological subtype. Baseline factors associated with decreased survival time were 
elevated  WBC,  and  elevated  cystathionine.  No  important  association  between  homocysteine  and 
survival was observed. The size of the treatment effect was consistent across levels of homocysteine 
(adjusted hazard ratio = 0.73, 95%CI: 0.46-1.15 and 0.65 95%CI: 0.49-0.87, for the ≥12 µmol/L and 
<12 µmol/L groups, respectively). 
Efficacy results for primary and selected secondary analyses are summarised in Table 6 and Figure 2. 
Two  assessments  of  tumor  response  rate  were  conducted,  one  on  the  basis  of  the  investigators’ 
determination  and  the  second  on  the  basis  of  an  independent  peer  review.  The  results  of  the 
investigator  assessment  are  consistent  with  those  for  the  independent  reviewer  assessment.  The 
median duration of response for responders in the RT population (n=130) was 5.75 versus 4.7 months, 
for pemetrexed+cisplatin v. cisplatin, respectively. The duration of investigator-determined responses 
was used for this analysis. 
The analysis of individual parameters and especially for dyspnea and pain, showed that dyspnea was 
relatively  unchanged  in  the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm,  but  increased  in  the  cisplatin  alone  arm.  This 
difference reached statistical significance at Cycle 6 in the RT population. A similar pattern was also 
seen in the FS groups. Pain decreased in the pemetrexed/cisplatin arm and increased in the cisplatin 
alone arm. From Cycle 3 through Cycle 6, scores were significantly different. A similar pattern was 
seen in the FS subgroup, although differences in scores did not reach statistical significance between 
arms.  In  the  PS+NS  subgroup,  the  cisplatin  alone  arm  had  a  greater  increase  in  pain  with  scores 
statistically  different  from  the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm  at  Cycles  4  and  5.  Concerning  pulmonary 
function test, for each parameter (SVC, FVC, and FEV1), averaging over the entire treatment period, 
the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm  had  statistically  significantly  greater  pulmonary  function  for  all  three 
parameters. 
30/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. 
Survival Time, Time to Progressive Disease, and Tumor Response Rate RT 
Population, FS, and FS+PS Subgroups H3E-MC-JMCH 
RT Population 
FS Subgroup 
FS+PS Subgroup 
Pem/Cis 
(N=226) 
12.1 
10.0–14.4 
Cisplatin 
(N=222) 
9.3 
7.8–10.7 
Pem/Cis 
(N=168) 
13.3 
11.4–14.9 
Cisplatin 
(N=163) 
10.0 
8.4–11.9 
Pem/Cis 
(N=194) 
13.2 
10.9–14.8 
Cisplatin 
(N=184) 
9.4 
8.4–11.6 
0.77 
0.020 
0.75 
0.051 
0.71 
0.022 
0.50 
0.38 
0.57 
0.42 
0.54 
0.41 
0.012 
0.011 
0.014 
5.7 
4.9–6.5 
3.9 
2.8–4.4 
6.1 
5.3–7.0 
3.9 
2.8–4.5 
6.1 
5.4–6.7 
4.3 
3.0–4.9 
0.68 
0.001 
0.64 
0.008 
0.70 
0.003 
Median survival (mo) 
95% CI 
Hazard ratio 
Log rank P-value  
12 month survival 
P-valuea  
TTPD (mo) 
95% CI 
Hazard ratio 
Log rank P-value 
41.3 
34.8–48.1 
Response rate (%) (Inv.) 
95% CI 
Fisher exact P-value 
Abbreviations:  CI = confidence interval; Inv. = investigator assessed; mo=months; Pem/Cis = 
pemetrexed/cisplatin; TTPD = time to progressive disease. a  Two-sided P-value based on the normal 
approximation. 
45.5 
37.8–53.4 
19.6 
13.8–26.6 
45.6 
38.4–52.9 
16.7 
12.0–22.2 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
19.0 
13.6–25.4 
Figure 2. 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival time for pemetrexed + cisplatin and cisplatin 
alone, RT population. H3E-MC-JMCH 
n
o
i
t
c
n
u
F
n
o
i
t
u
b
i
r
t
s
D
i
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
S
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
STRATA:
Survival Time (Months)
TrtGroup=LY231514 + Cisplatin
TrtGroup=Cisplatin
31/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive studies (malignant pleural mesothelioma) 
H3E-MC-JMDR  was  a  Phase  2  study  of  single-agent  pemetrexed  in  patients  with  MPM  who  had 
received  no  prior  chemotherapeutic  pemetrexed  [102,  103].  Pemetrexed  was  administered  as  a  10-
minute  i.v.  infusion  at  500  mg/m2  on  Day  1  of  a  21-day  period.  Prophylactic  dexamethasone  was 
administered.  In  order  to  improve  patient  safety  the  applicant  amended  the  study  protocol  to  add 
supplementation  with  low-dose  folic  acid  (350  µg  to  1000  µg)  and  vitamin  B12  (1000  µg).  As  a 
consequence,  the  protocol-specified  sample  size  was  increased  from  41  to  61  qualified  patients.  A 
total of 64 patients were enrolled in the study and received at least one dose of the study drug. The 
median age of patients enrolled was 65 years, and 82.8% of the patients were male. Most patients had 
a  Karnofsky  Performance  Status  of  90,  a  diagnosis  of  epitheloid  pleural  mesothelioma,  and  either 
stage III or stage IV disease. According to investigator assessment the overall tumor response rate was 
9 / 64 (14.1% 95% CI: 6.6% to 25.0%), with 7 responders among patients who were enrolled in the 
study and assigned to receive low-dose folic acid and vitamin B12. The response rate was 17.9% (95% 
CI  8.9%,  30.4%),  according  to  independent  response  review.  Supplemented  patients  completed  a 
median  of  6  cycles  of  therapy,  compared  with  a  median  of  2  cycles  for  nonsupplemented  patients. 
Fever  and  leukopenia  were  the  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  that  led  to  reduction  in  the 
dose  of  pemetrexed.  Supplementation  was  associated  with  less  severe  hematologic  toxicity, 
particularly  a  lower  incidence  of  Grade  4  neutropenia  and  leukopenia.  Furthermore  the  trend 
suggested  that  supplementation  may  be  associated  with  some  improvement  in  Grade  3  and  Grade  4 
nonlaboratory toxicity. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy in MPM 
The MPM indication is supported by one phase III study, JMCH. This study was the first large trial 
performed in MPM which included more than 400 patients. The observed hazard ratio of 0.77, and a 
median difference in survival of 2.8 months in favour of pemetrexed in addition to cisplatin is of great 
clinical  relevance  in  a  disease  for  which  currently  no  life  prolonging  treatment  is  known.  In  the 
subgroup  of  fully  supplemented  patients,  the  survival  advantage  was  equally  relevant.  The  effect  of 
pemetrexed on survival can be explained by its outstanding antineoplastic activity against malignant 
mesothelial  tumours  when  added  to  cisplatin.  The  effect  was  consistent  across  secondary  efficacy 
endpoints  such  as  objective  response  rate  and  progression-free  survival.  The  effect  was  comparable 
across subgroups with different supplementation status. 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study,  overall  survival,  is  adequate  in  such  a  disease  when  expected 
overall survival is short. Concerning secondary objectives, the difficulties with assessing response and 
progression objectively are well known in this disease. The sample size is adequately justified after the 
protocol amendment requiring vitamin supplementation. 
Baseline patient characteristics reflect what one would expect in the general MPM population i.e. most 
patients are male, had epithelial histology, a pleural mesothelioma localisation, and stage III or IV for 
their disease. The dynamic randomisation used was efficient in balancing the marginal distribution of 
important prognostic factors between treatment arms. 
The  conduct  of  the  trial  was  complex,  with  several  protocol  amendments  including  changes  from 
tumor response rate to a hard primary endpoint of survival, more than doubling of the sample-size due 
to  the  addition  of  vitamin  supplementation.  Although  such  changes  would  generally  have  prompted 
the  conduct  of  a  different  trial,  in  the  context  of  a  rare  disease  such  as  mesothelioma,  once  centres 
recruiting  effectively  patients  with  MPM  are  available,  it  is  acknowledged  that  to  continue  with  the 
ongoing trial may have been the most efficient option available. 
The  population  for  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  defined  in  the  protocol  included  only  randomised 
patients  that  had  started  treatment,  a  definition,  which  is  generally  used  for  safety  and  not  primary 
efficacy analyses. The exclusion of randomized patients from the population for the primary analysis 
violates  fundamental  statistical  principles  and  cannot  be  considered  an  intent-to-treat  analysis. 
However, in view of the small number of patients actually excluded, it is unlikely that a re-analysis on 
all randomized patients would result in radically different conclusions. A re-analysis of the data was 
therefore not requested but the methodological pitfall was noted. 
32/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
The choice of the control group also required careful consideration. At the time when the study was 
designed,  no  established  chemotherapy  for  MPM  was  available  [19].  Concerning  agents  which  had 
shown  some  activity,  certain  combination  regimens  such  as  with  anthracycline  /  cisplatin  reported 
better responses rates in phase II trials than single-agent therapy [104, 105]. No randomised trials have 
clearly  established  the  role  of  combination  regimen  over  single-agent  chemotherapy  (or  indeed  the 
clinical  benefit  of  single-agent  chemotherapy).  Thus,  the  choice  of  a  single  therapy  rather  than  a 
combined therapy as comparator is acceptable. 
The  75  mg/m2  every  3  weeks  cisplatin  regimen  was  used  in  place  of  more  intense  cisplatin  dosing 
(e.g., 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks) in the control arm of trial JMCH. So far no clear dose-response effect 
has  been  shown  in  for  single-agent  cisplatin  in  the  treatment  of  mesothelioma  [106,  107].  Similar 
results  were  observed  in  NSCLC  within  a  range  of  of  60  mg/m2  to  120  mg/m2  [108,  109].  In 
conclusion, the choice of control arm in the JMCH trials is acceptable.  
The dose of  500 mg/m2 pemetrexed, in combination with 75 mg/m2 cisplatin, was selected  because of 
toxicities  observed  in  single-agent  Phase  2  studies  (without  vitamin  supplementation).  It  is  possible 
that the 500 mg/m2 of pemetrexed in combination with 75 mg/m2 of cisplatin might not be the optimal 
dose  with  the  addition  of  vitamin  supplementation,  and  further  studies  are  warranted.  For  the  time 
being,  the  current  dosing  recommendation  as  described  in  the  SPC  are  adequate,  and  are  justified 
based on the efficacy and safety results from the main phase III trial. 
Studies  of  pemetrexed  (without  the  supplementation  of  folic  acid  and  vitamin  B12)  identified 
myelosuppression  as  the  principal  dose-limiting  toxicity,  although  nonhematologic  toxicities  of 
mucositis,  diarrhea,  vomiting  and  infection  were  also  significant.  This  toxicity  profile  is  consistent 
with those of other antifolates. During the trial, toxicities such as Grade 4 neutropenia with Grade 3 or 
4 infection, and Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea, and pemetrexed-related death in patients receiving pemetrexed 
resulted in a decision to add folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation in both treatment arms. Folic 
acid  350  to  1,000  µg  was  taken  orally  and  Vitamin  B12  1,000  µg  was  given  intramuscularly.  The 
supplementation  regimen  was  chosen  based  on  a  combination  of  theoretical,  and  practical 
considerations.  From  the  data  obtained  thus  far  in  the  clinical  development  of  pemetrexed,  no 
definitive  conclusions  can  be  drawn  regarding  the  contribution  of  supplementation  to  efficacy. 
Concerning safety, since vitamin supplementation considerably improves the toxicity profile, albeit in 
a  non-randomised  comparison  pragmatically,  it  has  been  proposed  that  all  patients  (regardless  of 
homocysteine plasma level) might benefit from vitamin supplementation.  
There are limited data in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma treated with pemetrexed alone. 
The  uncontrolled  phase  II  study  JMDR  (see  Dose  finding  for  MPM)  showed  that  pemetrexed  when 
administered as single agent to patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma has an antitumor activity 
in the range of such data published for other single agents as cisplatin, doxorubicin and gemcitabine. 
Most of the patients who responded were fully supplemented. The safety profile was also improved in 
supplemented  patients  with  a  lower  incidence  of  haematologic  toxicity,  particularly  Grade  3  and 
Grade 4 neutropenia and leukopenia. 
Main studies (NSCLC) 
Study  JMEI,  was  a  multi-center,  randomized,  phase  III  trial  comparing  pemetrexed  vs  docetaxel  in 
previously  treated  patients  with  histologic  or  cytologic  diagnosis  of  locally  advanced  or  metastatic 
(stage III or IV) NSCLC [110]. 
Patients and methods 
• 
Study participants – eligibility criteria 
The main inclusion criteria were designed to select patients at least 18 years of age with histologic or 
cytologic  diagnosis  of  NSCLC  with  locally  measurable  and/or  evaluable  advanced  or  metastatic 
disease  (stage  IIIA,  IIIB  or  IV  at  entry)  that  was  not  amenable  to  curative  therapy,  Eastern 
Cooperative  Oncology  Group  (ECOG)  performance  status  of  0  to  2.  Patients  should  have  received 
previous  treatment  consisting  of  neoadjuvant  chemotherapy,  neoadjuvant  followed  by  adjuvant 
chemotherapy  (only  a  single  regimen  was  allowed),  adjuvant  chemotherapy  or  chemotherapy  for 
advanced  disease.  Patients  were  also  eligible  if  they  had  received  one  chemotherapy  regimen  as 
neoadjuvant,  neoadjuvant  followed  by  adjuvant,  or  adjuvant  chemotherapy  and  a  different 
33/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
chemotherapy regimen for advanced disease. Only a single regimen was allowed for prior therapy of 
advanced  disease.  Patients  had  to  have,  adequate  organ  function  including  the  following:  absolute 
neutrophil (segmented and bands) count (ANC ≥1.5×109/L, platelets ≥100×109/L, and hemoglobin ≥9 
g/dL, bilirubin ≤ ULN, AST and ALT ≤ 1.5 ULN, alkaline phosphatase ≤ 5 ULN. CrCl ≥45 ml/min 
using  the  lean  body  mass  formula  only)  [98].  Patients  with  symptomatic  brain  metastases,  or  with 
presence  of  clinically  detectable  (by  physical  exam)  third-space  fluid  collections  that  cannot  be 
controlled  by  drainage  or  other  procedures  prior  to  study  entry,  or  with  significant  weight  loss  (ie, 
≥10%) over the previous 6 weeks before study entry, with prior treatment with either pemetrexed or 
docetaxel,  CTC  Grade  3  or  4  peripheral  neuropathy  were  not  eligible.  Patients  with  reproductive 
potential  must  have  been  using  an  approved  contraceptive  method  if  appropriate  during  and  for  3 
months  after  the  study.  Females  with  childbearing  potential  must  have  had  a  negative  serum 
pregnancy test within 7 days prior to study enrollment. 
Treatments 
• 
Pemetrexed was administered at 500 mg/m2 as a 10-minute i.v. infusion on Day 1 of a 21-day cycle. 
All  Pemetrexed  patients  were  required  to  take  folic  acid,  vitamin  B12,  and  prophylactic 
dexamethasone  (4  mg,  orally  BID  on  the  day  before,  the  day  of  and  the  day  after  each  dose  of 
pemetrexed, unless clinically contraindicated).  
No  other  chemotherapy,  immunotherapy,  hormonal  cancer  therapy,  surgery  for  cancer,  or 
experimental  medications  (with  the  exception  of  thymidine)  was  permitted  while  the  patients  were 
receiving  study  therapy.  Palliative  radiation  therapy  was  permitted  for  irradiating  small  areas  of 
painful metastasis that could not be managed adequately using systemic or local analgesics. Routine 
use  of  colony-stimulating  factors  (CSFs)  was  not  permitted.  Patients  taking  nonsteroidal  anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or salicylates were not permitted the NSAID or salicylate on the 2 days 
before,  the  day  of,  and  the  2  days  after  receiving  pemetrexed.  If  a  patient  was  taking  an  NSAID  or 
salicylate  with  a  long  half-life  (for  example,  naproxen,  piroxicam,  diflunisal,  or  nabumetone),  it 
should  not  have  been  taken  on  the  5  days  before,  the  day  of,  and  the  2  days  after  receiving 
pemetrexed. Leucovorin was allowed for CTC Grade 4 leukopenia, CTC Grade 4 neutropenia lasting 
greater than 3 days, or immediately for CTC Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, or bleeding associated with 
Grade 3 thrombocytopenia. 
Docetaxel  was  administered  at  75  mg/m2  as  a  1-hour  i.v.  infusion  on  Day  1  of  a  21-day  cycle. 
Dexamethasone 16 mg orally, was administered daily (eg, 8 mg BID)  for 3 days starting 1 day prior 
to  each  dose  of  docetaxel  (or  equivalent  regimen),  unless  clinically  contraindicated,  to  reduced  the 
severity  of  fluid  retention  and  hypersensitivity  reaction.  The  docetaxel  regimen  was  chosen  as  the 
active control based on two randomized Phase 3 studies of docetaxel [29, 30]. 
Antiemetic therapy was to be administered according to standard local practice. 
• 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  objective  of  study  JMEI  was  to  show  non-inferiority  in  overall  survival  following 
treatment  with  pemetrexed  versus  docetaxel  in  patients  with  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  (stage 
IIIA, IIIB or IV) NSCLC who had been previously treated with chemotherapy. Overall survival time 
was defined as the time from the date of randomization to date of death due to any cause, or censoring. 
Secondary  endpoints  included  toxicity,  progression-free  survival,  time  to  documented  disease 
progression, time to treatment failure, objective tumor response, duration of response, and changes in 
the  average  symptom  burden  index  between  the  pemetrexed  and  docetaxel  arms  by  using  the  Lung 
Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS). Time-to-event efficacy variables were compared between treatment 
arms using the Cox proportional hazards model. Tumor response measurement was done according to 
Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) criteria [99]. 
• 
Sample size and Interim analysis 
A sample size of 520 randomized patients was chosen assuming no more than 26% censoring in order 
to oberve 385 deaths necessary based on consideration of the primary comparison of overall survival 
between  treatment  arms  using  the  Cox  proportional  hazard  model  with  treatment  as  the  only  factor. 
From  the  Cox  model,  a  two  tailed  95%  confidence  interval  for  HR  was  used  to  simultaneously 
evaluate  the  null  hypotheses  of  HR≥1.00  (pemetrexed  not  superior)  and  HR≥1.11  (pemetrexed 
34/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
inferior).  This  sample  size  ensured  about  80%  chance  of  demonstrating  statistically  significant 
superiority of pemetrexed for a true value of HR of 0.75, or noninferiority for a true value of HR of 
0.83. Statistical power was calculated using methods developed for the log-rank statistic [111, 112], 
and using the asymptotic equivalence of the Cox model to one form of the log-rank statistic [113]. No 
interim analyses of efficacy were planned. 
• 
Randomization 
The algorithm of Pocock and Simon [101], using a probability factor of 0.75, was applied to balance 
the treatment arms for the following factors: ECOG Performance Status (2 v. 0 or 1), prior platinum-
containing chemotherapy (Yes v. No), prior paclitaxel-containing chemotherapy (Yes v. No), baseline 
homocysteine level (<12 µM v. ≥12 µM), number of prior chemotherapy regimens (1 v. 2), time since 
last chemotherapy (<3 months v. ≥3 months), best response to last prior chemotherapy (CR/PR/SD v. 
PD or unknown, disease stage (III v. IV), investigational centre. 
• 
Methods of efficacy analyses / statistical analysis 
Noninferiority of PEMETREXED over docetaxel in overall survival was defined by HR <1.11. Prior 
to unblinding of the trial data, another (secondary) noninferiority criterion was defined in the analysis 
plan,  whereby  noninferiority  was  defined  by  HR  <1.21.  This  new  margin  was  determined  by  the 
Rothmann method [114], so as to preserve a study-wide type I error rate of about 0.025 for testing for 
the  retention  by  pemetrexed  of  50%  of  the  assumed  efficacy  of  docetaxel  over  BSC  in  the  trial 
population. In terms of HR of docetaxel over BSC this was assumed to be 0.56 (95% CI, 0.35 to 0.88), 
based  on  a  previous  study  [29].  The  HR  and  the  95%  confidence  interval  (CI)  for  pemetrexed  over 
docetaxel were calculated based on the Cox proportional hazards model with therapy arm as the only 
variable. From the Cox model, a two-tailed 95% confidence interval for HR was used to evaluate the 
null hypotheses (the resulting non-inferiority tests can be viewed as one-tailed at the 0.025 level). The 
primary  analysis  was  conducted  in  the  intent-to-treat  population  (ITT),  defined  as  all  patients 
randomly assigned to a treatment arm whether or not they received study drug. Secondary analyses for 
overall survival were performed on patients who were randomized and treated (RT) with at least one 
cycle of therapy. 
Results 
• 
Participant flow and numbers analysed 
Study  JMEI  screened  698  patients  at  135  investigational  sites  in  23  countries.  The  ITT  population 
consists of 571 patients randomized to either pemetrexed (n=283) or to docetaxel (n=288) (Figure 3) 
and constitute the ITT population. This includes all randomized patients, except for all patients (n=4) 
from one centre that was excluded from all analyses of efficacy (and safety) before analysis, because 
the  investigator  at  this  site  did  not  meet  applicable  regulatory  requirements  for  participating  in  the 
study. 
35/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
Figure 3. Disposition of patients while on-study and until 30 days after the last dose of study 
drug. H3E-MC-JMEI 
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
Patients who signed ICD
n = 698
n = 698
n = 698
n = 698
n = 698
n = 698
n = 698
n = 698
Randomized Patients
Randomized Patients
n = 571
n = 571
n = 571
n = 571
n = 571
n = 571
n = 571
n = 571
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
Not randomized  = 127
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- inclusion criteria not met =114
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
- reason unspecified = 13
LY 231514
LY 231514
LY 231514
LY 231514
LY 231514
LY 231514
LY 231514
LY 231514
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
n = 283  a
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
Docetaxel
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
n = 288  a
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
n = 265  b
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
n = 18
n = 18
n = 18
n = 18
n = 18
n = 18
n = 18
n = 18
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
PC not met = 7
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
Death from S.Dis. =5
AE = 3
AE = 3
AE = 3
AE = 3
AE = 3
AE = 3
AE = 3
AE = 3
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Personal conflict = 2
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Prot. violation = 1
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
Treated
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
n = 276  b
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
Not treated
n = 12
n = 12
n = 12
n = 12
n = 12
n = 12
n = 12
n = 12
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
PC not met = 2
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from S.Dis. = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Death from other = 1
Personal conflict = 5
Personal conflict = 5
Personal conflict = 5
Personal conflict = 5
Personal conflict = 5
Personal conflict = 5
Personal conflict = 5
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Lost to followup  = 3
Abbreviations:    AE  =  adverse  event;  CD  =  Informed  Consent  Document;  LY231514  =  pemetrexed;  PC 
=protocol  criteria;  S.  Dis  =  study  disease.  a  intent  to  treat  (ITT)  population.  b  randomized  and  treated  (RT) 
population. 
• 
Baseline characteristics 
Baseline  characteristics  are  summarised  in  Table  7-8.  In  order  to allow  the  comparison  between  the 
Shepherd  trial  [29]  and  study  JMEI  by  the  percent  retention  method,  patient  baseline  demographics 
and disease characteristics of these two trial have been compared. Age and stage of disease at baseline 
were similar. In the Shepherd trial, more patients had an ECOG Performance Status 2, more patients 
had prior chemotherapy (with at least 2 regimens), and fewer responders to prior chemotherapy than 
when  compared  with  the  JMEI  study.  Also,  all  patients  had  prior  platinum  therapy,  and  no  patients 
received prior taxane in the Shepherd study. 
Table 7. Summary of patient characteristics and Baseline Stratification Factors Used for 
Randomization ITT Population H3E-MC-JMEI 
Sex No. (%)  
Origin No. (%)    
Age (years) 
Histological subtype 
No. (%) 
Female 
Male  
African Descent  
Western Asian  
Caucasian  
East/Southeast A  
Hispanic  
Other  
Mean  
Median  
Standard Dev.  
Minimum  
Maximum  
Adenocarcinoma  
Bronchoalveolar  
Squamous  
Pemetrexed 
n=283 
89 (31.4) 
194 (68.6) 
8 (2.8) 
20 (7.1) 
203 (71.7) 
44 (15.5) 
4 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
58.44 
59.00 
10.47 
22.00 
81.00 
Docetaxel 
n=288 
71 (24.7) 
217 (75.3) 
8 (2.8) 
23 (8.0) 
200 (69.4) 
49 (17.0) 
6 (2.1) 
2 (0.7) 
58.05 
57.00 
9.49 
28.00 
87.00 
ALL 
N=571 
160 (28.0) 
411 (72.0) 
16 (2.8) 
43 (7.5) 
403 (70.6) 
93 (16.3) 
10 (1.8) 
6 (1.1) 
58.24 
58.00 
9.98 
22.00 
87.00 
154 (54.4) 
4 (1.4) 
78 (27.6) 
142 (49.3) 
1 (0.3) 
93 (32.3) 
296 (51.8) 
5 (0.9) 
171 (29.9) 
36/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stage of disease No. 
(%) 
Homocysteine No. 
(%) 
ECOG PS No. (%) 
Other  
Stage IIIA  
Stage IIIB  
Stage IV  
No. patients 
LOW (< 12 umol/L)  
HIGH (>= 12 umol/L)  
No. patients 
0  
1  
2  
47 (16.6) 
14 (4.9) 
57 (20.1) 
212 (74.9) 
283 (49.7) 
202 (71.4) 
81 (28.6) 
264 (49.1) 
52 (19.7) 
182 (68.9) 
30 (11.4) 
52 (18.1) 
99 (17.3) 
13 (4.5) 
60 (20.8) 
215 (74.7) 
286 (50.3) 
197 (68.9) 
89 (31.1) 
274 (50.9) 
48 (17.5) 
192 (70.1) 
34 (12.4) 
27 (4.7) 
117 (20.5) 
427 (74.8) 
569 
399 (70.1) 
170 (29.9) 
538 
100 (18.6) 
374 (69.5) 
64 (11.9) 
Table 8. Summary of prior treatment patient characteristics ITT Population H3E-MC-JMEI 
Prior Chemo No. (%) 
1 Regimen  
2 Regimens  
Prior Platinum No. 
(%) 
Had No Prior Platinum 
Had Prior Platinum  
Prior Taxane No. (%)  Had No Prior Taxane  
Had Prior Taxane  
Complete Response  
Partial Response  
Stable Disease  
Progressive Disease  
Unknown or Not Done  
Not Evaluable  
No. patients 
<3 mos since last chemo 
>3 mos since last chemo 
Best response to prior 
chemo. No. (%) 
Time since last chemo 
No. (%) 
• 
Study outcome 
Pemetrexed 
n=283 
270 (95.4) 
13 (4.6) 
21 (7.4) 
262 (92.6) 
210 (74.2) 
73 (25.8) 
12 (4.2) 
89 (31.4) 
106 (37.5) 
67 (23.7) 
4 (1.4) 
5 (1.8) 
278 (49.4) 
140 (50.4) 
138 (49.6) 
Docetaxel 
n=288 
268 (93.1) 
20 (6.9) 
29 (10.1) 
259 (89.9) 
208 (72.2) 
80 (27.8) 
4 (1.4) 
101 (35.1) 
93 (32.3) 
73 (25.3) 
11 (3.8) 
6 (2.1) 
285 (50.6) 
137 (48.1) 
148 (51.9) 
ALL 
N=571 
538 (94.2) 
33 (5.8) 
50 (8.8) 
521 (91.2) 
418 (73.2) 
153 (26.8) 
16 (2.8) 
190 (33.3) 
199 (34.9) 
140 (24.5) 
15 (2.6) 
11 (1.9) 
563 
277 (49.2) 
286 (50.8) 
A total of 283 patients on the pemetrexed arm and 288 patients on the docetaxel arm were included in 
the survival analysis of the ITT population. The median overall survival time for patients treated with 
pemetrexed was 8.3 months compared with 7.9 months for those treated with docetaxel. The HR was 
0.99, (95% CI of 0.82 to 1.20) with a noninferiority P-value of 0.226 for testing HR of <1.11. This 
means that the noninferiority criteria were not met using the fixed margin method. The estimate of the 
percentage of survival benefit (docetaxel over BSC) retained by pemetrexed was 102% with the lower 
95% CI bound of 52% (P=0.047). The results of overall survival time analyses for the RT population 
were  consistent  with  those  of  the  ITT  population.  Key  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  results  are 
presented in Table 9-10 and Figure 4-5. 
37/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. Summary of Survival Time (Months), ITT and RT Patients (H3E-MC-JMEI) 
ITT Patients 
(N=571) 
RT Patients 
(N=541) 
Pemetrexed 
(N=283)  
8.3 
(7.0-9.4) 
61.5 
29.7 
27.2 
Docetaxel 
(N=288)  
7.9 
(6.3–9.2) 
57.6 
29.7 
29.5 
Median 
95% CI for median 
6 months 
12 months 
Percent censored 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI for hazard ratio 
NI P-value for testing HR of <1.11 
% Retention Method 
% efficacy retained by  pemetrexed 
95% CI of % benefit retained 
NI P-value for testing 50% retention 
Abbreviations:  CI = confidence interval; HR = hazard ratio; ITT = intent to treat; 
102% 
(52%-157%) 
0.047 
0.99 
(0.82–1.20) 
0.226 
Pemetrexed 
(N=265) 
8.4 
(7.4–9.4) 
62.9 
30.6 
27.6 
Docetaxel 
(N=276) 
8.0 
(6.7–9.2) 
58.3 
29.8 
28.3 
0.97 
(0.80–1.18) 
0.155 
105% 
(58%-168%) 
0.036 
N = number of patients in the population; n = number of patients in the treatment arm; NI = noninferiority; 
RT = randomized and treated. 
Figure 4. Summary of Survival Time (Months), ITT and RT Patients (JMEI) 
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
n
o
i
t
c
n
u
F
n
o
i
t
u
b
i
r
t
s
D
i
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
S
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
STRATA:
TrtGroup=Docetaxel
TrtGroup=LY231514
SURVIVAL TIME (Months)
38/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Efficacy of Pemetrexed versus Docetaxel in NSCLC ITT Population 
Pemetrexed 
283 
2.9 
Docetaxel 
288 
2.9 
Progression-free Survival 
(months) 
Time to Treatment Failure 
(months) 
Time to progressive disease 
(months) 
No. of patients evaluated 
Median 
HR (95% CI) 
Wald P-value 
No. of patients evaluated 
Median 
HR (95% CI) 
Wald P-value 
No. of patients evaluated 
Median 
HR (95% CI) 
Wald P-value 
No. of patients evaluated 
Response rate (%) (95% CI) 
Stable disease (%) 
No. of patients evaluated 
Median 
HR (95% CI) 
Wald P-value 
Abbreviations:  CI = confidence interval; HR = hazard ratio; ITT = intent to treat. 
Duration of tumor response 
(months) 
Response 
283 
3.4 
282 
2.3 
264 
9.1 (5.9–13.2) 
45.8 
24 
4.6 
0.97 (0.82–1.16) 
0.759 
0.97 (0.80 – 1.17) 
0.721 
0.84 (0.71–.997) 
0.046 
288 
3.5 
288 
2.1 
274 
8.8 (5.7–12.8) 
46.4 
24 
5.3 
0.77 (0.40– 1.47) 
0.427 
Figure 5. Progression-free survival RT population  
Thirty % of the patients in the pemetrexed arm received docetaxel after failure of pemetrexed therapy. 
Post  hoc  analyses  of  overall  survival  in  subgroups  of  patients  who  did  not  receive  poststudy 
chemotherapy, those who received docetaxel poststudy chemotherapy, and those who received other 
poststudy  chemotherapy  were  performed  and  summarized  in  Table  11.    In  the  pemetrexed  arm,  the 
median survival of patients who received poststudy docetaxel was 1.0 months lower than the median 
survival of patients who received other poststudy chemotherapy. 
39/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11. 
Survival based on poststudy chemotherapy (JMEI RT population) 
Poststudy Therapy 
No poststudy chemotherapy 
Poststudy docetaxel-containing 
therapy 
Pemetrexed (n=265) 
Median 
Survival (mo) 
6.2 
9.6 
Pts (%) 
139 (52.4) 
85 (32.1) 
Docetaxel (n=276) 
Median 
Survival (mo) 
5.0 
10.1 
Pts (%) 
169 (61.2) 
11 (4.0) 
Poststudy chemotherapy regimens not 
41 (15.5) 
10.6 
96 (34.8) 
11.2 
containing docetaxel 
Duration of Clinical Benefit 
The duration of clinical benefit was defined as the time since randomization to the progressive disease 
or death for patients who had a CR, PR (measurable or non-measurable disease), or stable disease. A 
total of 145 patients in the pemetrexed arm and 151 patients in the docetaxel arm were qualified for 
this analysis. Duration of clinical benefit for patients treated with pemetrexed was similar to that for 
the docetaxel patients (median time 5.4 months compared with 5.2 months). The HR was 0.91 with the 
95% HR CI of 0.71 to 1.16. 
Lung Cancer Symptoms Scale 
Compliance was 89.0% (3317 of 3726 of expected questionnaires) for the pemetrexed arm and 85.1% 
(2995 of 3519 of expected questionnaires) for the docetaxel arm. The most commonly reported reason 
for not completing the LCSS was failure by the site to administer the questionnaire. Compliance may 
have been underestimated if patients had discontinued therapy before the end of the 3-week cycle. 
A total of 507 randomized patients completed at least the six symptom items of the patient LCSS at 
baseline. The mean average symptom burden index at baseline for these patients was 27.7 mm with a 
standard deviation of 16.2 mm. Baseline mean average symptom burden indices for the two treatment 
arms were not different (27.8 mm for pemetrexed, 27.6 mm for docetaxel). 
LCSS data from 227 patients (80.2%) in the pemetrexed arm and 247 (85.8%) in the docetaxel arm 
were included in average symptom burden index analysis.  
Data  from  239  patients  (84.5%)  in  the  pemetrexed  arm  and  233  (80.9%)  in  the  docetaxel  arm  were 
included in the observer scale analysis. Patients were only included in the analysis if they had data for 
the baseline period and had data from at least one cycle. 
A summary of changes in observer LCSS scores by treatment arm is presented in Table 12.  
Anorexia 
LCSS Observer 
Scores 
P-value2 
Table 12. Summary of LCSS Observer Scale Response  (ITT Population Qualified for LCSS 
Analysis, JMEI) 
Pemetrexed 
(N=239) 
n(%) 
35 (14.6) 
98 (41.0) 
46 (19.2) 
60 (25.1) 
34 (14.2) 
97 (40.6) 
48 (20.1) 
60 (25.1) 
42 (17.6) 
110 (46.0) 
27 (11.3) 
60 (25.1) 
27 (11.3) 
125 (52.3) 
27 (11.3) 
60 (25.1) 
11 (4.6) 
Improved 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
Improved 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
Improved 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
Improved 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
Improved 
Docetaxel 
(N=233)1 
n(%) 
38 (16.3) 
104 (44.6) 
37 (15.9) 
54 (23.2) 
40 (17.2) 
92 (39.5) 
47 (20.2) 
54 (23.2) 
37 (15.9) 
113 (48.5) 
29 (12.4) 
54 (23.2) 
30 (12.9) 
109 (47.0) 
39 (16.8) 
54 (23.3) 
8 (3.4) 
0.416 
0.545 
0.589 
0.337 
Fatigue 
Cough 
Hemoptysis 
Dyspnea 
40/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pain 
Total (average) 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
Improved 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
Improved 
Stable 
Failure 
Insufficient Data 
157 (65.7) 
11 (4.6) 
60 (25.1) 
38 (15.9) 
115 (48.1) 
25 (10.5) 
61 (25.5) 
64 (26.8) 
44 (18.4) 
70 (29.3) 
61(25.5) 
162 (69.8) 
8 (3.4) 
54 (23.3) 
44 (19.0) 
100 (43.1) 
34 (14.7) 
54 (23.3) 
65 (28.0) 
48 (20.7) 
65 (28.0) 
54(23.3) 
1.000 
0.800 
0.712 
Abbreviations: ITT = intention to treat; LCSS = Lung Cancer Symptom Scale; N = number of patients in the 
treatment arm; n = number of patients with observer scores. 1 N = 232 for dyspnea, hemoptysis, pain, total. 2 
Mantel-Haenszel chi-square. 
Ancillary analyses 
A  prospectively  planned,  stepwise  Cox  regression  model  of  the  JMEI  survival  data  was  constructed 
starting  with  seven  of  the  nine  baseline  randomization  factors  (excluding  homocysteine  and  center).  
Baseline  homocysteine  level  was  excluded  as  one  of  the  factors  because  homocysteine  had  been 
shown at the time the study was started to be a predictor of toxicity and not of efficacy; a high baseline 
homocysteine  level  most  clearly  distinguished  patients  with  an  increased  risk  of  severe  hematologic 
and/or  nonhematologic  toxicities  following  treatment  with  pemetrexed.  In  addition,  the  omission  of 
center  from  this  model  (because  of  modeling  difficulties  of  including  135  centers  in  the  model)  is 
appropriate because the influence of center is always through other risk factors, and the important risk 
factors  have  all  been  included.    The  stepwise  Cox  procedure  resulted  in  three  significant  cofactors 
(performance  status,  stage,  and  time  since  last  chemotherapy)  among  the  original  seven  (Table  13).  
When treatment arm is added to these three significant factors in the model, the survival comparison to 
the 10% margin very nearly reached statistical significance (P=0.051; hazard ratio upper confidence 
bound  of  1.13).  Additionally,  this  adjusted  margin  is  equivalent  to  retaining  at  least  73%  of  the 
docetaxel  survival  benefit  over  BSC.  Treatment  effect  was  added  to  the  final  model  with  the  above 
three  significant  factors  to  test  for  any  difference  and  this  analysis  showed  that  there  was  no 
statistically  significant  difference  in  progression-free  survival  between  the  treatment  groups 
(P=0.608). 
Table 13. Summary of Model Selection on Overall Survival Time (ITT Population, H3E-MC-
JMEI) 
Variable 
Treatment 
 (Pemetrexed over docetaxel) 
Performance status 
(0/1 over 2) 
Time since last chemotherapy 
 (≥3 months over <3 months)  
Stage (III over IV) 
P-value 
0.051* 
<.001 
0.004 
0.026 
HR 
0.93 
0.25 
0.74 
0.77 
95% 
Lower Limit 
0.76 
0.19 
0.60 
0.60 
95% 
Upper Limit 
1.13 
0.34 
0.90 
0.97 
Abbreviations:  HR = hazard ratio (adjusted); ITT = intent to treat. 
*  Testing noninferiority for HR of 1.11. 
Exploratory subgroup analyses were performed. No subgroup by treatment interactions was observed 
with  either  age  or  sex  for  overall  survival  time.  Overall  survival  time  was  similar  between  the 
treatment arms in the subcategories of age (< 65 yrs., ≥65 yrs.) or sex (female, male). No significant 
prognostic factor (performance status, stage of disease and time since last chemotherapy) by treatment 
interactions were observed for overall survival. 
Supportive studies (NSCLC) 
Study JMBR was a phase 2 study of pemetrexed in second-line treatment of NSCLC. Pemetrexed was 
administered at 500 mg/m2 by 10-min i.v. infusion once every 21 days. The investigators concluded 
41/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that pemetrexed has manageable side effects and may be considered to have sufficient activity to be 
developed further as a first or second-line treatment in NSCLC [115]. 
The  applicant  also  conducted  two  trials  in  first-line  NSCLC  with  single-agent  pemetrexed  (Study 
JMAL  and  Study  JMAN)  [116,  117].  Two  additional  studies  were  conducted  to  assess  the 
effectiveness  of  pemetrexed  plus  cisplatin  combination  therapy  in  first-line  patients  with  NSCLC 
(Study  JMAY  and  Study JMBZ)  [118,  119].  Trials  JMBR,  JMAL,  JMAN,  JMAY,  and  JMBZ  were 
completed before the programmatic addition of folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy- NSCLC 
The  survival  data  from  trial  H3E-MC-JMEI  failed  the  test  for  non-inferiority  in  the  main  efficacy 
analysis (P-value of 0.226 for testing HR of 1.11). The non-inferiority margin of 10% had been chosen 
according  to  a  Scientific  Advice  of  the  CPMP.  After  model  selection  and  adjustments  for  selected 
prognostic  factors  (as  secondary  analysis),  this  test  showed  a  borderline  statistical  significance 
(P=.051).  Although  the  pre-specified  non-inferiority  criterion  was  not  met,  further  analyses  have 
shown that at least 52% (lower 95% CI) of the (historical) survival benefit of docetaxel over BSC was 
retained by pemetrexed of the survival benefit of docetaxel over BSC, assuming that a similar effect 
would have been observed in the population under study, i.e., a hazard ratio survival of docetaxel over 
BSC  0.56  (95%  CI,  0.35  to  0.88),  which  corresponded  to  an  observed  median  survival  of  7.0  v  4.6 
months. In comparison, a non-inferiority margin of 10% would correspond to a  more stringent 78% 
retention of such an effect. It is noted that this estimates only refer to the subgroup which has received 
75  mg/m²  of  docetaxel,  not  those  patients  which  have  received  100  mg/m²  of  docetaxel  [29],  and 
furthermore  does  not  consider  active  comparators  such  as  vinorelbine  or  ifosfamide  [30].  These 
considerations  weaken  the  relevance  of  the  proposed  noniferiority  margin.  Adjusted  and  unadjusted 
survival  analyses  have  shown  upper  confidence  limits  between  1.13  and  1.20  (depending  on  the 
analysis).  This  range  corresponds  to  a  worst-case  scenario  of  pemetrexed  retaining  52%  to  73%  of 
docetaxel’s  historical  benefit  over  BSC.  Notably,  this  corresponds  to  at  most  a  16.1  to  3.6  days 
difference  in  median  survival  from  the  protocol-defined  10%  margin.  Thus,  although  inferiority  of 
pemetrexed has not formally been excluded, based on the data provided it is still possible to rule out 
striking differences. 
Clinical safety 
Clinical safety of combination therapy of pemetrexed and cisplatin (MPM studies) 
• 
Patient exposure 
Among all patients in study JMCH, 1066 cycles were administered to patients on the LY/cis arm while 
877 cycles were administered to patients on the cisplatin alone arm. In the RT population, a median of 
six cycles (range: 1 to 12 cycles) was completed on the pemetrexed/cisplatin arm compared with four 
cycles (range: 1 to 9 cycles) completed on the cisplatin alone arm.  
Among  FS  patients,  a  median  of  6  cycles  of  therapy  was  delivered  on  the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm 
compared with 4 cycles delivered on the cisplatin alone arm. Concerning vitamin supplementation, in 
the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm,  FS  patients  received  a  median  of  6  cycles  compared  with  5  cycles 
among PS+NS patients, and 2 cycles among NS patients. 
Dose  reductions  occurred  more  often  in  the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm  (2.6  to  3.4%  of  doses 
administered) than in the cisplatin-alone arm (0.3% of doses administered). The most common reasons 
for  dose  reductions  in  the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm  were  neutropenia,  diarrhea,  thrombocytopenia, 
and stomatitis. 
Dose delays were reported for 308 (28.9%) cycles on the LY/cis arm, and for 171 (19.5%) cycles on 
the cisplatin alone arm. Scheduling conflicts (difficulty to schedule the drug infusion due to reasons 
such as vacation, holiday, delayed lab collection, etc.) constituted the majority of the dosing delays in 
both  groups.  The  most  common  clinical  causes  of  delay  on  both  arms  were  firstly  neutropenia,  and 
secondly decreased creatinine renal clearance. 
On  the  LY/cis  arm,  the  most  frequent  reason  for  dose  reduction  was  neutropenia,  followed  by 
diarrhea, thrombocytopenia, and stomatitis. On the cisplatin alone arm, 3 (0.3%) dose reductions were 
reported  for  neutropenia, hyponatremia,  and  neurotoxicity.    On  both  arms,  dose  reductions  occurred 
most frequently in Cycle 2. 
42/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
Of the FS patients on the LY/cis arm, the most frequent reasons for pemetrexed dose reductions were 
diarrhea, neutropenia, and stomatitis (each 17.4%). 
• 
Adverse events  
A total of 226 patients on the LY/cis arm and 222 patients on the cisplatin alone arm were qualified 
for safety analyses. On the LY/cis arm, 223 (98.7%) patients reported at least one Treatment Emergent 
Adverse Events (TEAE). On the cisplatin alone arm, a total of 218 (98.2%) patients reported at least 
one TEAE. On both treatment arms, nausea, vomiting, and fatigue were the most commonly reported 
TEAEs.  In  addition,  on  the  LY/cis  arm,  neutropenia  and  leukopenia  were  reported  for  >50%  of  all 
patients and significantly greater (p<0.001) than those events reported for the cisplatin alone arm.  
Concerning fully supplemented patients, frequency and severity of undesirable effects that have been 
reported  in  > 5 %  of  patients  (RT/FS  population  mesothelioma)  are  summarised  in  Table  14. 
Clinically relevant CTC toxicities that were reported in > 1 % and < 5 % (common) of the patients that 
were randomly assigned to receive cisplatin and pemetrexed include: increased AST, ALT, and GGT, 
infection, pyrexia, febrile neutropenia, renal failure, chest pain, and urticaria. Clinically relevant CTC 
toxicities that were reported in ≤ 1 % of the patients that were randomly assigned to receive cisplatin 
and pemetrexed include arrhythmia and motor neuropathy. 
Among FS patients on the LY/cis arm, there were significantly fewer reports of vomiting, stomatitis, 
neutropenia, anorexia,  and  rash  than  reported  by  the  PS+NS  patients  (data  not  shown).  This  finding 
suggests  that  supplementation  may  have  played  a  role  in  decreasing  the  episodes  of  these  toxicities 
among patients randomized to the LY/cis arm. 
Table 14. Frequency and severity of undesirable effects that have been reported in > 5 % of 
patients (RT/FS population mesothelioma) 
System 
Organ 
Class 
Event* 
Blood and Lymphatic 
System 
Eye 
Gastrointestinal 
General  
Metabolism/Nutrition 
Nervous System  
Renal & urinary 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
Tissue 
Neutrophils/granulocyt
es decreased 
Leukocytes decreased 
Haemoglobin 
decreased 
Platelets decreased 
Conjunctivitis 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Stomatitis/Pharyngitis 
Anorexia 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Dyspepsia 
Fatigue 
Dehydration 
Neuropathy-Sensory 
Dysgeusia 
Creatinine elevation 
Other: Creatinine 
clearance decreased 
Rash 
Alopecia 
Pemetrexed/cisplatin 
(N = 168) 
Cisplatin 
(N = 163) 
All 
Grades 
Toxicity 
(%) 
56.0 
Grade 
3 - 4 
Toxicity 
(%) 
23.2 
All 
Grades 
Toxicity 
(%) 
13.5 
Grade 
3 - 4 
Toxicity 
(%) 
3.1 
53.0 
26.2 
23.2 
5.4 
82.1 
56.5 
23.2 
20.2 
16.7 
11.9 
5.4 
47.6 
6.5 
10.1 
7.7 
10.7 
16.1 
16.1 
11.3 
14.9 
4.2 
5.4 
0.0 
11.9 
10.7 
3.0 
1.2 
3.6 
0.6 
0.6 
10.1 
4.2 
0.0 
0.0 
0.6 
0.6 
0.6 
0.0 
16.6 
10.4 
8.6 
0.6 
76.7 
49.7 
6.1 
14.1 
8.0 
7.4 
0.6 
42.3 
0.6 
9.8 
6.1 
9.8 
17.8 
4.9 
5.5 
0.6 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
5.5 
4.3 
0.0 
0.6 
0.0 
0.6 
0.0 
9.2 
0.6 
0.6 
0.0 
1.2 
1.8 
0.0 
0.0 
* National Cancer Institute CTC version 2 for each grade of toxicity except the term “creatinine clearance 
decreased”** which is derived from the term “renal/genitourinary other”. 
43/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the RT population, there were more SAEs experienced by patients on the LY/cis arm (36.7%) than 
on  the  cisplatin  alone  arm  (21.6%).  In  the  FS  subgroup,  62/168  (36.9%)  patients  reported  serious 
adverse events in the LY/cis arm and 34/163 (20.9%) in the cisplatin alone arm. 
The most frequently reported drug-related SAEs (among those reported in >2% of patients) in the RT 
population for the LY/cis arm were nausea (8.4%), vomiting (8.4%) and dehydration (5.8%). The most 
frequently reported SAEs in the cisplatin alone arm were vomiting (2.3%) and nausea (1.4%). Drug-
related SAEs by supplementation status are summarised in Table 15. 
Table 15. Summary of Serious Adverse Events (>2% Incidence) Possibly or Probably Related to 
Study Drug RT Population by Supplementation Status H3E-MC-JMCH 
≥1 event 
Vomiting NOS 
Nausea 
Dehydration 
Neutropenia 
Fatigue 
Stomatitis 
Diarrhoea 
Anaemia 
Anorexia 
Leukopenia 
Pemetrexed/cisplatin 
Cisplatin 
FS (n=168) 
(%) 
No. 
(20.8) 
35 
(4.8) 
8 
(4.8) 
8 
8 
(4.8) 
(2.4) 
4 
(1.2) 
2 
(2.4) 
4 
(2.4) 
4 
(2.4) 
4 
(1.2) 
2 
(1.8) 
3 
PS+NS (n=58) 
(%) 
No.
16 (27.6) 
11 (19.0) 
11 (19.0) 
5 (8.6) 
5 (8.6) 
5 (8.6) 
4 (6.9) 
3 (5.2) 
2 (3.4) 
3 (5.2) 
2 (3.4) 
FS (n=163) 
No.
(%) 
15 (9.2) 
4 (2.5) 
2 (1.2) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
PS+NS (n=59) 
No. 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
(%) 
(1.7) 
(1.7) 
(1.7) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
A  total  of  22  deaths  occurred  while  patients  were  on-study  (LY/cis:  14;  cisplatin  alone:  8).  Three 
deaths  on  the  LY/cis  arm  were  considered  to  be  possibly  related  to  study  drug.  Febrile  neutropenia 
was present in all 3 cases. Most deaths (eight in the LY/cis arm and three in the cisplatin alone arm) 
occurred in the first two cycles of therapy or in the 30 days following the last infusion of study drug 
(five in the LY/cis arm and three in the cisplatin alone arm). The proportion of on-study deaths in the 
LY/cis  arm  was  lower  in  the  FS  subgroup  (8/168  (4.8%))  compared  to  the  PS+NS  subgroup  (6/58 
(10.3%)).  
•  Laboratory findings 
In  both  arms,  Common  Toxicity  Criteria  (CTC)  Grade  3  or  4  neutropenia  was  the  most  commonly 
reported  hematologic  toxicity.  Grade  3/4  neutropenia  was  more  frequent  among  PS+NS  patients 
compared with the FS patients (Table 16). 
The incidence of CTC Grade 3/4 neutropenia was significantly more common among PS+NS patients 
(24/58 (41.4%)) compared with FS (39/168 (23.2%)) patients in the LY/cis arm (P=0.011).  
Table 16. Summary of Maximum CTC Grade 3/4 Toxicity Grades for Hematologic Toxicity RT 
Population by Patient Supplementation Status H3E-MC-JMCH 
Hemoglobin 
Leukocytes 
Lymphocytes 
Neutrophils 
Platelet Count 
Pemetrexed/cisplatin 
Cisplatin 
FS (n=168) 
(%) 
No. 
(4.2) 
(14.9) 
(0.6) 
(23.2) 
(5.4) 
7 
25 
1 
39 
9 
PS+NS (n=58) 
No.
4  
15 
0 
24 
4 
(%) 
(6.9) 
(25.9) 
(41.4) 
(6.9) 
44/55 
FS (n=163) 
No.
(%) 
0  
1 (0.6% 
1 (0.6) 
5 (3.1) 
0  
PS+NS (n=59) 
(%) 
(1.7) 
No. 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On  the  LY/cis  arm,  CTC  Grade  3  or  4  neutropenia  occurred  in  125  of  1066  cycles  of  study  drug 
administered (11.7%). By contrast, only five episodes of CTC Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred among 
877 cycles given in the cisplatin alone arm (0.6%). For all parameters, the percent of cycles of Grade 
3/4  toxicity  are  higher  among  the  cycles  not  supplemented  when  compared  with  the  supplemented 
cycles for patients in the LY/cis arm, reaching statistical significance for neutrophils (P=0.001). 
Three  episodes  of  non-haematologic  Grade  4  toxicity  occurred,  all  in  the  LY/cis  arm  (two  CrCl 
decreased  and  one  GGT).  With  the  exception  of  3  patients,  all  other  patients  who  experienced  any 
CTC Grade 3 or Grade 4 nonhematologic laboratory toxicities also received supplementation. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Patients randomized and treated on the LY/cis treatment arm who were ≥65 years of age demonstrated 
a  significantly  greater  frequency  of  nausea  (P=0.008)  when  compared  with  patients  on  the  cisplatin 
alone arm. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  safety  data  related  to  drug-drug  interactions  and  other  interactions  have  been  reported,  with  the 
exception of supplementation. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
No post marketing experience data have been available. 
Clinical safety of single-agent therapy with pemetrexed (NSCLC studies) 
There were 5 completed clinical trials where single-agent pemetrexed was used along with low-dose 
folic  acid  and  vitamin  B12  supplementation.  Of  these  5  clinical  trials,  a  total  of  472  patients  were 
treated  with  pemetrexed.  The  data  of  the  JMEI  study  are  the  most  relevant  to  the  safety  assessment 
and the primary focus hereafter.  
• 
Safety Measurements and analyses 
Patients  were  rated  for  toxicity  prior  to  each  cycle  by  using  the  NCI  CTC  scale  (version  2.0).  All 
patients who received at least one dose of pemetrexed or docetaxel (RT population) were evaluated for 
safety except for the patients previously mentioned for the centre excluded from the study.  
Treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAE)  were  defined  as  events  that  first  occurred  or  became 
worse after baseline. Nonserious, clinically significant adverse events were defined as any nonserious 
adverse event that caused discontinuation from the study. 
• 
Patient exposure 
A total of 265 patients received at least one dose of pemetrexed and 276 patients received at least one 
dose of docetaxel. Patients of the both treatment arms completed a median of 4 cycles of therapy: from 
1  to  20  cycles  on  pemetrexed,  and  from  1  to  14  on  docetaxel.  A  total  of  90  (34%)  patients  on  the 
pemetrexed arm and 88 (32%) patients on the docetaxel arm completed at least six cycles of therapy. 
The  percent  of  planned  dose-intensity  was  98.8%  and  94.4%  for  pemetrexed  and  docetaxel, 
respectively. 
A total of 231 dose delays were reported for patients on the pemetrexed arm and 193 for patients on 
the docetaxel arm (19.8% and 17.8% of doses administered, respectively). Most of the dose delays on 
both  treatment  arms  were  due  to  scheduling  conflict  and  not  due  to  study  drug  toxicity.  Decreased 
CrCl  was  the  second  most  common  reason  for dose delay in  the pemetrexed  arm.  Infection  was  the 
second most common reason for dose delay in the docetaxel arm. 
There were 14 dose reductions (1.2% of doses administered) on the pemetrexed arm compared with 61 
(5.6%  of  doses  administered)  on  the  docetaxel  arm  (p<.001).  Neutropenia  and  febrile  neutropenia 
were the cause of >50% of reductions in the docetaxel arm. No single reason was the main cause of 
dose reductions in the pemetrexed arm. 
• 
Adverse events 
A total of 259 patients on pemetrexed (97.7%) and 272 patients on docetaxel (98.6%) reported at least 
one  treatment-emergent  adverse  event.  The  five  most  commonly reported  events  in  pemetrexed  arm 
45/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
were fatigue (50.2%), anorexia (40%), nausea (37%), dyspnea (31.3%) and anemia (28.7%). The five 
most  commonly  reported  events  in  the  docetaxel  arm  were  neutropenia  (43.8%),  fatigue  (41.7%), 
alopecia  (39.1%),  dyspnea  (35.1%)  and  leukopenia  (33.7%).  Neutropenia,  febrile  neutropenia, 
alopecia, leukopenia, myalgia, diarrhoea, arthralgia and neurotoxicity were significantly more frequent 
for  docetaxel,  whilst  the  incidence  of  thrombocytopenia,  fatigue,  nausea,  increased  transaminases, 
decreased  creatinine  clearance,  vomiting,  constipation  and  rash  was  significantly  higher  for 
pemetrexed. 
Frequency and severity of undesirable effects that have been reported in > 5 % of patients are reported 
in Table 17. Clinically relevant CTC toxicities that were reported in > 1 % and < 5 % (common) of the 
patients that were randomly assigned to pemetrexed include: sensory neuropathy, motor neuropathy, 
abdominal  pain,  increased  creatinine,  febrile  neutropenia,  infection  without  neutropenia,  allergic 
reaction/hypersensitivity and erythema multiforme. 
Clinically  relevant  CTC  toxicities  that  were  reported  in  ≤ 1 %  of  the  patients  that  were  randomly 
assigned to pemetrexed include supraventricular arrhythmias. 
Clinically relevant Grade 3 and Grade 4 laboratory toxicities were similar between integrated Phase 2 
results from three single agent pemetrexed studies (n = 164) and the Phase 3 single agent pemetrexed 
study  described  above,  with  the  exception  of  neutropenia  (12.8 %  versus  5.3 %,  respectively)  and 
alanine transaminase elevation (15.2 % versus 1.9 %, respectively). These differences were likely due 
to  differences  in  the  patient  population,  since  the  Phase  2  studies  included  both  chemonaive  and 
heavily pre-treated breast cancer patients with pre-existing liver metastases and/or abnormal baseline 
liver function tests.  
Fifty patients on the pemetrexed arm received more than 6 cycles of drug.  In this population a slight 
cumulative toxicity regarding anemia, lymphopenia, ALAT and fatigue was observed. 
Table 17. Frequency and severity of undesirable effects that have been reported in > 5 % of 265 
patients randomly assigned to receive single agent pemetrexed with folic acid and vitamin B12 
supplementation and 276 patients randomly assigned to receive single agent docetaxel. 
System Organ 
Class 
Event* 
Blood and 
Lymphatic 
System 
Gastrointestinal 
General 
Hepatobiliary 
Skin and Sub-
cutaneous tissue 
Haemoglobin decreased 
Leukocytes decreased 
Neutrophils/ Granulocytes 
decreased 
Platelets decreased 
Nausea 
Anorexia 
Vomiting 
Stomatitis/ Pharyngitis 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Fatigue 
Fever 
SGPT (ALT) elevation 
SGOT (AST) elevation 
Rash/ desquamation 
Pruritus 
Alopecia 
* National Cancer Institute CTC version 2 
• 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Pemetrexed (N=265) 
Docetaxel (N=276) 
All Grades 
(%) 
19.2 
12.1 
10.9 
Grade 3–4 
(%) 
4.2 
4.2 
5.3 
All Grades 
(%) 
22.1 
34.1 
45.3 
Grade 3–4 
(%) 
4.3 
27.2 
40.2 
8.3 
30.9 
21.9 
16.2 
14.7 
12.8 
5.7 
34.0 
8.3 
7.9 
6.8 
14.0 
6.8 
6.4 
1.9 
2.6 
1.9 
1.5 
1.1 
0.4 
0.0 
5.3 
0.0 
1.9 
1.1 
0.0 
0.4 
0.4 
1.1 
16.7 
23.9 
12.0 
17.4 
24.3 
4.0 
35.9 
7.6 
1.4 
0.7 
6.2 
1.8 
37.7 
0.4 
1.8 
2.5 
1.1 
1.1 
2.5 
0.0 
5.4 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
2.2 
The five most frequently reported SAE regardless of causality in the pemetrexed arm were pneumonia 
(6.8%), dyspnea (4.9%), pyrexia (4.5%), anemia (3.8%) and abdominal pain (2.3%).  
46/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
The  five  most  frequently  reported  SAE  regardless  of  causality  in  the  docetaxel  arm  were  febrile 
neutropenia (11.2%), dyspnea (9.1%), neutropenia (6.2%), pneumonia (5.1%) and pyrexia (3.6%).  
The serious drug related AE included febrile neutropenia, anaemia and pyrexia in the pemetrexed arm 
and febrile neutropenia, neutropenia, anaemia and pyrexia in the docetaxel arm. The incidence of drug 
related febrile neutropenia and neutropenia was statistically higher in the docetaxel arm. 
Among  the  SAE,  one  case  of  serious  decreased  of  creatinine  clearance  after  cycle  4  (017-1614),  a 
grade 3 cytolysis on day 7 cycle 1 (303-3031) and a grade 3 supra-ventricular arrhythmia on day 12 
cycle 1 (801-8020) were reported.  
Three  deaths  in  the  pemetrexed  arm  and  five  deaths  in  the  docetaxel  arm  were  considered  possibly 
drug related. 
• 
ECG findings 
Electrocardiographic  data  from  patients  treated  in  the  phase  III  study  JMEI  were  collected.  Two 
baseline  ECG  recording  were  performed.  One  ECG  recording  was  performed  during  the  peak 
concentration oif the first pemetrexed infusion. One ECG recording was performed prior to the next 
cycle.  A  total  of  163  patients  had  evaluable  ECGs.  Five  patients  experienced  a  QTc  prolongation 
between  30  to  60  msec  at  peak  concentration  of  pemetrexed.  Two  other  patients  experienced  QTc 
prolongation  from  30  to  60  msec  21  days  after  pemetrexed  infusion,  probably  due  to  electrolyte 
imbalances.  
• 
Laboratory findings 
The  incidence  of  drug  related  febrile  neutropenia  and  neutropenia  was  significantly  higher  in  the 
docetaxel arm (Table 17). Except for neutropenia, the biological toxicity of pemetrexed and docetaxel 
were not significantly different. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
In combination with cisplatin in patients treated for MPM, the main toxicities are gastrointestinal and 
haematological. Vitamin supplementation in MPM patients has a favourable effect on global toxicity. 
Combination  therapy  with  pemetrexed/cisplatin  (MPM  studies)  presented  more  toxicity  and  SAEs, 
than cisplatin alone in patients treated for malignant pleural mesothelioma, which is expected. In the 
combination  arm,  significantly  more  severe  nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  dehydration,  and  stomatitis 
were observed. Haematological toxicity of the combination appears acceptable. Grade ¾ neutropenia 
did  not  present  frequent  clinically  significant  complications  such  as  febrile  neutropenia  and  sepsis. 
Nausea,  vomiting,  and  fatigue  are  the  most  frequent  non-haematological  toxicity.  The  TEAE  of 
stomatitis and diarrhea were significantly more frequently reported in the LY/cis arm compared to the 
cisplatin  arm  alone.  Grade  3  or  4  nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhea,  and  stomatitis  were  also  significantly 
more frequently reported in the LY/cis arm compared to the cisplatin arm alone. The TEAE of rash 
was significantly more frequently reported in the LY/cis arm compared to the cisplatin arm alone. In 3 
cases on the pemetrexed arm, death can be considered as drug-related. All these patients were never 
supplemented. SAEs with cerebral ischemia, angina pectoris and pulmonary embolism were observed 
in  the  combination  arm  but  not  in  the  cisplatin  alone  arm.  In  the  pemetrexed/cisplatin  arm,  18/226 
patients  (8%)  compared  to  5/222  (2.3%)  in  the  cisplatin  alone  arm  presented  depression  as  TEAEs. 
This was severe in one case, where depression with suicide attempt led to withdrawal from the study. 
In  general,  depression  was  not  reported  as  study  drug-  or  procedure-related.  Due  to  the  gastro-
intestinal  toxicity  of  pemetrexed,  the  combination  pemetrexed  +  cisplatin  significantly  increases  the 
risk of dehydration compared to the cisplatin alone and this has been reflected in a warning in section 
4.4 of the SPC. 
The  safety  profile  of  single-agent  pemetrexed  is  close  to  the  safety  profile  of  docetaxel,  regarding 
asthenia  and  gastrointestinal  toxicity.  The  incidence  of  drug  related  febrile  neutropenia  and 
neutropenia was significantly higher in the docetaxel arm. Pemetrexed is associated with a slight grade 
3/4  hepatotoxicity  and  nephrotoxicity  which  was  not  observed  with  docetaxel  during  study  JMEI. 
Since  pemetrexed  is  excreted  by  the  kidney,  a  control  of  renal  function  at  baseline  and  before 
pemetrexed administration is necessary (see SPC section 4.2). Clinically relevant Grade 3 and Grade 4 
laboratory  toxicities  were  similar  between  integrated  Phase  2  results  from  three  single  agent 
pemetrexed  studies  (n = 164)  and  the  Phase  3  single  agent  pemetrexed  study,  with  the  exception  of 
47/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
neutropenia  (12.8 %  versus  5.3 %,  respectively)  and  alanine  transaminase  elevation  (15.2 %  versus 
1.9 %, respectively). These differences were likely due to differences in the patient population, since 
the  Phase  2  studies  included  both  chemonaive  and  heavily  pre-treated  breast  cancer  patients  with 
pre-existing liver metastases and/or abnormal baseline liver function tests. 
Serious  cardiovascular  and  cerebrovascular  events,  including  myocardial  infarction,  angina  pectoris, 
cerebrovascular  accident  and  transient  ischaemic  attack  have  been  uncommonly  reported  during 
clinical  studies  with  pemetrexed,  usually  when  given  in  combination  with  another  cytotoxic  agent. 
Most  of  the  patients  in  whom  these  events  have  been  observed  had  pre-existing  cardiovascular  risk 
factors.  A  full  review  of  cardiovascular,  cerebrovascular  toxicity  and  heart  failure  adverse  event 
reports, which were reported during ongoing and completed pemetrexed clinical trials was submitted. 
Among the 128 patients who had cardiovascular events issued of 42 studies in a total of 4963 patients, 
30  patients  had  events  that  were  reported  as  related  to  pemetrexed.  Among  these  30  patients  28 
myocardial  toxicities  and  8  cerebrovascular  events  were  recorded.  Five  of  these  patients  received 
monotherapy. These findings are adequately reflected in the SPC, which includes a warning about the 
risk of cardiovascular event in patients with associated cardiovascular risk factors (see SPC section 4.4 
and 4.8). 
Six  cases  of  colitis  were  recorded  with  pemetrexed  (5  related,  out  of  7949  patients  included  in  an 
updated safety database), although 4 occurred prior to the vitamin supplementation. A full review of 
hepatobiliary  adverse  event  reports  during  pemetrexed  clinical 
trials  was  conducted.  The 
hepatotoxicity profile of pemetrexed includes cytolytic hepatitis or cholestatic hepatitis, jaundice and 
hepatic failure. The incidence of hepatobiliary events seen in pemetrexed clinical trials is 1.5%, with 
the majority of the events occurring in patients with underlying liver metastases or other pre-existing 
disease.  Appropriate  dose  modifications  in  case  of  hepatobiliary  disorders  have  been  provided  (see 
SPC section 4.2). The occurrence of rare cases of hepatitis, potentially serious, with pemetrexed has 
been noted in the SPC (see section 4.8).  
A  full  review  of  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  adverse  event  reportsfrom  pemetrexed  clinical  trials 
(n=42) was conducted. Among the 92 patients who had skin toxicity related to pemetrexed, 3 cases of 
urticaria  and  three  cases  of  bullous  toxicity  including  one  case  of  Stevens  Johnson  syndrome  in 
association  with  cisplatin  were  reported.  To  reduce  the  incidence  and  severity  of  skin  reactions,  a 
corticosteroid  should  be  given  the  day  prior  to,  on  the  day  of,  and  the  day  after  pemetrexed 
administration. The corticosteroid should be equivalent to 4 mg of dexamethasone administered orally 
twice a day (see SPC section 4.4). 
In clinical studies, there has been no indication that patients 65 years of age or older are at increased 
risk of adverse events compared to patients younger than 65 years old. No dose reductions other than 
those recommended for all patients are necessary. ALIMTA is  not recommended for use in patients 
under 18 years of age, as safety and efficacy have not been established in this group of patients. This 
has been reflected in the SPC (see section 4.2). 
Interactions and conditions relevant for all cytotoxics (oral anticoagulants, Yellow fever vaccine, other 
live  attenuated  vaccines,  immunosuppression)  are  expected  for  pemetrexed  as  well,  and  adequate 
contraindications and warnings have been provided in the SPC (see section 4.3, 4.4, and 4.5). 
Patients  receiving  pemetrexed  should  be  monitored  before  each  dose  with  a  complete  blood  count, 
including  a  differential  white  cell  count  (WCC)  and  platelet  count.  Prior  to  each  chemotherapy 
administration blood chemistry tests should be collected to evaluate renal and hepatic function. Before 
the  start  of  any  cycle  of  chemotherapy,  patients  are  required  to  have  the  following:  Absolute 
Neutrophil  Count  (ANC)  should  be  ≥ 1500 cells/mm3  and  platelets  should  be  ≥ 100,000 cells/mm3. 
Creatinine  clearance  should  be  ≥ 45 ml/min.  The  total  bilirubin  should  be  ≤ 1.5 times  upper  limit  of 
normal. Alkaline phosphatase (AP), aspartate transaminase (AST or SGOT) and alanine transaminase 
(ALT  or  SGPT)  should  be  ≤ 3 times  upper  limit  of  normal.  Alkaline  phosphatase,  AST  and  ALT 
≤ 5 times upper limit of normal is acceptable if liver has tumour involvement (see SPC section 4.2). 
Dose adjustments at the start of a subsequent cycle should be based on nadir haematologic counts or 
maximum non-haematologic toxicity from the preceding cycle of therapy. Treatment may be delayed 
to  allow  sufficient  time  for  recovery.  Dose  adjustments  for  toxicity  are  adequately  described  in  the 
SPC (see section 4.2). 
48/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
The  effect  of  third  space  fluid,  such  as  pleural  effusion  or  ascites,  on  pemetrexed  is  unknown.  In 
patients  with  clinically  significant  third  space  fluid,  consideration  should  be  given  to  draining  the 
effusion prior to pemetrexed administration (see SPC section 4.4). 
There  are  no  data  from  the  use  of  pemetrexed  in  pregnant  women  but  pemetrexed,  like  other 
anti-metabolites,  is  suspected  to  cause  serious  birth  defects  when  administered  during  pregnancy. 
Pemetrexed  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  clearly  necessary,  after  a  careful 
consideration  of  the  needs  of  the  mother  and  the  risk  for  the  foetus.  Effective  contraception  during 
treatment  with  pemetrexed  must  be  used  as  applicable,  and  men  are  advised  to  seek  counselling  on 
sperm storage before starting treatment (see also discussion on non-clinical aspects and section 4.6 of 
the SPC). It is not known whether pemetrexed is excreted in human milk and adverse effects on the 
suckling  child  cannot  be  excluded.  Breast-feeding  must  be  discontinued  during  pemetrexed  therapy 
(see SPC section 4.6). 
Pemetrexed may cause fatigue and patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machines 
if this event occurs (see SPC section 4.7). 
Reported symptoms of overdose include neutropenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, mucositis, and rash. 
Anticipated  complications  of  overdose  include  bone  marrow  suppression  as  manifested  by 
neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia  and  anaemia.  In  addition,  infection  with  or  without  fever,  diarrhoea, 
and/or mucositis may be seen. In the event of suspected overdose, patients should be monitored with 
blood counts and should receive supportive therapy as necessary (see SPC section 4.9). 
4. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pemetrexed  is  a  novel  multi-targeted  anti-cancer  antifolate  agent  that  exerts  its  action  by  disrupting 
crucial folate-dependent metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Pemetrexed behaves as a multitargeted antifolate by inhibiting key folate-dependent enzymes for the 
de novo biosynthesis of thymidine and purine nucleotides. Once in the cell, pemetrexed is rapidly and 
efficiently  converted  to  polyglutamate  forms.  The  polyglutamate  forms  are  retained  in  cells  and  are 
even  more  potent  inhibitors.  Polyglutamation  is  a  time-  and  concentration-dependent  process  that 
occurs in tumour cells and, to a lesser extent, in normal tissues. Polyglutamated metabolites have an 
increased intracellular half-life resulting in prolonged drug action in malignant cells. In mice on a low-
folate diet, dietary folic acid protected mice from toxicity without negative influence on the efficacy of 
pemetrexed. 
Gastrointestinal and haematotoxicity were the dose-limiting effects in dogs, and the toxicity observed 
in non-clinical models was predictive of the toxicity observed in clinical studies. Pemetrexed has been 
shown to be clastogenic in the in vivo micronucleus test in the mouse. Pemetrexed was not mutagenic 
using  the  Ames  test  and  did  not  increase  chromosomal  aberrations  in  the  CHO  cell  assay. 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted.   
Administration of pemetrexed to pregnant mice resulted in decreased foetal viability, decreased foetal 
weight, incomplete ossification of some skeletal structures and cleft palate. Pemetrexed should not be 
used  during  pregnancy  unless  clearly  necessary,  after  a  careful  consideration  of  the  needs  of  the 
mother and the risk for the foetus. Administration of pemetrexed to male mice resulted in reproductive 
toxicity suggesting that pemetrexed may impair male fertility. 
49/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Efficacy 
A multicentre, randomised, phase 3 study of pemetrexed plus cisplatin versus cisplatin in chemonaive 
patients  with  malignant  pleural  mesothelioma,  has  shown  that  patients  treated  with  pemetrexed  and 
cisplatin  had  a  clinically  meaningful  2.8-month  median  survival  advantage  over  patients  receiving 
cisplatin alone. A statistically significant improvement of the clinically relevant symptoms (pain and 
dyspnoea) associated with malignant pleural mesothelioma in the pemetrexed/cisplatin arm versus the 
cisplatin arm alone was demonstrated using the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale. Statistically significant 
differences  in  pulmonary  function  tests  were  also  observed.  The  separation  between  the  treatment 
arms was achieved by improvement in lung function in the pemetrexed/cisplatin arm and deterioration 
of lung function over time in the control arm. 
A multicentre, randomised, open label phase 3 study of pemetrexed versus docetaxel in patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC after prior chemotherapy has shown median survival times of 
8.3  months  for  patients  treated  with  pemetrexed  and  7.9  months  for  patients  treated  with  docetaxel. 
Although  non-inferiority  was  not  formally  established,  the  data  submitted  are  robust  enough  to 
conclude that a clinically significant inferiority of pemetrexed to docetaxel in terms of efficacy in this 
population is unlikely. 
Safety 
The most common side effects when pemetrexed is used in combination with cisplatin are disorders of 
the  blood  and  lymphatic  system,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  fatigue,  sensory disorders  of  the  nervous 
system,  renal  and  urinary  disorders,  rash  and  alopecia.  Clinically  relevant  CTC  toxicities  that  were 
reported in > 1 % and < 5 % (common) of the patients that were randomly assigned to receive cisplatin 
and pemetrexed include: increased AST, ALT, and GGT, infection, pyrexia, febrile neutropenia, renal 
failure, chest pain, and urticaria. Clinically relevant CTC toxicities that were reported in ≤ 1 % of the 
patients  that  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  cisplatin  and  pemetrexed  include  arrhythmia  and 
motor neuropathy. 
The  most  common side effects when  pemetrexed is used  as  monotherapy are disorders of  the blood 
and  lymphatic  system,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  fatigue,  rash  and  desquamation.  Clinically  relevant 
CTC toxicities that were reported in > 1 % and < 5 % (common) of the patients that were randomly 
assigned  to  pemetrexed  include:  sensory  neuropathy,  motor  neuropathy,  abdominal  pain,  increased 
creatinine,  febrile  neutropenia,  infection  without  neutropenia,  allergic  reaction/hypersensitivity  and 
erythema  multiforme.  Clinically  relevant  CTC  toxicities  that  were  reported  in  ≤ 1 %  of  the  patients 
that were randomly assigned to pemetrexed include supraventricular arrhythmias. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
The MPM indication is supported by one phase III study, JMCH. In this trial, a clinically relevant and 
statistically  significant  difference  in  survival  was  observed.  The  median  survival  time  for  patients 
treated with pemetrexed/cisplatin was longer than for patients receiving cisplatin alone: 12.1 months 
versus  9.3  months.  Consistent  results  were  observed  in  terms  of  secondary  endpoints  and  across 
relevant  patient  subgroups.  In  terms  of  safety,  pemetrexed  in  combination  with  cisplatin  is,  as 
expected, more toxic than cisplatin alone. The frequencies of adverse events were lower in the fully 
supplemented  subgroup  when  compared  to  the  non-supplemented  subgroup.  The  main  toxicities  are 
haematological  and  gastrointestinal,  regardless  of  supplementation  and  are  considered  to  be 
manageable. Overall, the benefit/risk profile for pemetrexed is considered favourable in combination 
with cisplatin for chemotherapy naïve patients with unresectable MPM. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Non-inferiority  of  pemetrexed  over  docetaxel  was  not  formally  established  in  the  primary  efficacy 
analysis.  Nonetheless,  any  possible  differences  in  efficacy  between  pemetrexed  and  docetaxel  are 
likely  to  be  marginal.  The  rationale  for  the  vitamin  supplementation  and  the  proposed  dose  are 
considered acceptable. Altogether, the co-administration of pemetrexed and vitamin supplementation 
as second line treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC reduces the toxicity of 
50/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
pemetrexed,  particularly  nausea,  vomiting,  grade  III/IV  haematotoxicity  and  infections.  The  safety 
profile  of pemetrexed  appears  to  be  manageable,  and  existing  safety  concerns  have  been  adequately 
reported in the SPC.  
Overall, the benefit/risk ratio of pemetrexed compared to docetaxel puts the two products on the same 
line  given  the  fact  that  efficacy  can  be  considered  as  similar  (although  formally  not  ruling  out  the 
possibility of a marginal loss of efficacy), and given that safety is slightly better. 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  ALIMTA  in  combination  with  cisplatin  is  indicated  for  the 
treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma, and that 
the benefit/risk ratio of ALIMTA as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or  metastatic  NSCLC  after  prior  chemotherapy  was  favourable,  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
51/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
References 
McDonald, A.D. and J.C. McDonald, Malignant mesothelioma in North America. Cancer, 1980. 46(7): p. 1650-6. 
Ross, D. and J.C. McDonald, Occupational and geographical factors in the epidemiology of malignant 
mesothelioma. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis, 1995. 50(6): p. 459-63. 
Connelly, R.R., et al., Demographic patterns for mesothelioma in the United States. J Natl Cancer Inst, 1987. 
78(6): p. 1053-60. 
Metintas, M., G. Hillerdal, and S. Metintas, Malignant mesothelioma due to environmental exposure to erionite: 
follow-up of a Turkish emigrant cohort. Eur Respir J, 1999. 13(3): p. 523-6. 
Sterman, D.H., L.R. Kaiser, and S.M. Albelda, Advances in the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Chest, 1999. 116(2): p. 504-20. 
Antman, K., P. Schiff, and H. Pass, Benign and malignant mesothelioma., in Cancer: principles and practice of 
oncology 5th ed., V. DeVita, S. Hellman, and S.A. Rosenberg, Editors. 1997, Lippincott-Raven Publishers: 
Philadelphia (PA). p. 1853-1878. 
Curran, D., et al., Prognostic factors in patients with pleural mesothelioma: the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer experience. J Clin Oncol, 1998. 16(1): p. 145-52. 
Herndon, J.E., et al., Factors predictive of survival among 337 patients with mesothelioma treated between 1984 
and 1994 by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B. Chest, 1998. 113(3): p. 723-31. 
van Breukelen, F.J., et al., Mitoxantrone in malignant pleural mesothelioma: a study by the EORTC Lung Cancer 
Cooperative Group. Eur J Cancer, 1991. 27(12): p. 1627-9. 
Mattson, K., et al., Epirubicin in malignant mesothelioma: a phase II study of the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer Lung Cancer Cooperative Group. J Clin Oncol, 1992. 10(5): p. 824-8. 
Solheim, O.P., et al., High-dose methotrexate in the treatment of malignant mesothelioma of the pleura. A phase II 
study. Br J Cancer, 1992. 65(6): p. 956-60. 
Kindler, H.L., et al., Edatrexate (10-ethyl-deaza-aminopterin) (NSC #626715) with or without leucovorin rescue 
for malignant mesothelioma. Sequential phase II trials by the cancer and leukemia group B. Cancer, 1999. 86(10): 
p. 1985-91. 
van Meerbeeck, J., et al., Paclitaxel for malignant pleural mesothelioma: a phase II study of the EORTC Lung 
Cancer Cooperative Group. Br J Cancer, 1996. 74(6): p. 961-3. 
Kindler, H.L., et al., Gemcitabine for malignant mesothelioma: A phase II trial by the Cancer and Leukemia Group 
B. Lung Cancer, 2001. 31(2-3): p. 311-7. 
Sahmoud, T., et al., Etoposide in malignant pleural mesothelioma: two phase II trials of the EORTC Lung Cancer 
Cooperative Group. Eur J Cancer, 1997. 33(13): p. 2211-5. 
van Meerbeeck, J.P., et al., A Phase II study of gemcitabine in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Lung Cancer Cooperative Group. Cancer, 1999. 
85(12): p. 2577-82. 
Baas, P., et al., The activity of raltitrexed (Tomudex) in malignant pleural mesothelioma: an EORTC phase II study 
(08992). Eur J Cancer, 2003. 39(3): p. 353-7. 
van Meerbeeck, J.P., et al., A phase II EORTC study of temozolomide in patients with malignant pleural 
mesothelioma. Eur J Cancer, 2002. 38(6): p. 779-83. 
Baas, P., Chemotherapy for malignant mesothelioma: from doxorubicin to vinorelbine. Semin Oncol, 2002. 29(1): 
p. 62-9. 
Samson, M.K., et al., Randomized comparison of cyclophosphamide, imidazole carboxamide, and adriamycin 
versus cyclophosphamide and adriamycin in patients with advanced stage malignant mesothelioma: a Sarcoma 
Intergroup Study. J Clin Oncol, 1987. 5(1): p. 86-91. 
Hanna, N.H., et al. A phase III study of pemetrexed vs docetaxel in patients with recurrent non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) who were previously treated with chemotherapy [abstract]. in Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 22: page 
622, 2003 (abstr 2503). 2003. 
Parkin, D.M., et al., Estimating the world cancer burden: Globocan 2000. Int J Cancer, 2001. 94(2): p. 153-6. 
Ihde, D.C., Chemotherapy of lung cancer. N Engl J Med, 1992. 327(20): p. 1434-41. 
Shepherd, F.A., Induction chemotherapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg, 1993. 
55(6): p. 1585-92. 
Walling, J., Chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Respir Med, 1994. 88(9): p. 649-57. 
Schiller, J.H., et al., Comparison of four chemotherapy regimens for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl 
J Med, 2002. 346(2): p. 92-8. 
Kosmas, C., et al., An overview of current results with the gemcitabine and docetaxel combination as initial and 
salvage chemotherapy regimen in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol, 2003. 45(3): p. 
265-75. 
Hainsworth, J.D., D.S. Thompson, and F.A. Greco, Paclitaxel by 1-hour infusion: an active drug in metastatic non-
small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol, 1995. 13(7): p. 1609-14. 
Shepherd, F.A., et al., Prospective randomized trial of docetaxel versus best supportive care in patients with non-
small-cell lung cancer previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol, 2000. 18(10): p. 2095-
103. 
Fossella, F.V., et al., Randomized phase III trial of docetaxel versus vinorelbine or ifosfamide in patients with 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer previously treated with platinum-containing chemotherapy regimens. The 
TAX 320 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Study Group. J Clin Oncol, 2000. 18(12): p. 2354-62. 
Britten, C.D., et al., Activity of the multitargeted antifolate LY231514 in the human tumor cloning assay. Cancer 
Chemother Pharmacol, 1999. 44(2): p. 105-10. 
Westerhof, G.R., et al., Carrier- and receptor-mediated transport of folate antagonists targeting folate-dependent 
enzymes: correlates of molecular-structure and biological activity. Mol Pharmacol, 1995. 48(3): p. 459-71. 
52/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
59a. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
Shih, C., et al., LY231514, a pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine-based antifolate that inhibits multiple folate-requiring 
enzymes. Cancer Res, 1997. 57(6): p. 1116-23. 
Schultz, R.M., et al., Role of thymidylate synthase in the antitumor activity of the multitargeted antifolate, 
LY231514. Anticancer Res, 1999. 19(1A): p. 437-43. 
Worzalla, J.F., C. Shih, and R.M. Schultz, Role of folic acid in modulating the toxicity and efficacy of the 
multitargeted antifolate, LY231514. Anticancer Res, 1998. 18(5A): p. 3235-9. 
Lu, X., et al., The impact of p53 status on cellular sensitivity to antifolate drugs. Clin Cancer Res, 2001. 7(7): p. 
2114-23. 
Schultz, R.M. and J.A. Dempsey, Sequence dependence of Alimta (LY231514, MTA) combined with doxorubicin in 
ZR-75-1 human breast carcinoma cells. Anticancer Res, 2001. 21(5): p. 3209-14. 
Kano, Y., et al., Schedule-Dependent Interactions Between Multitargeted Antifolate (MTA) and Cisplatin or 
Paclitaxel in Human Carcinoma Cell Lines In Vitro [Nonclinical Pharmacology Report 5], Lilly Research 
Laboratories Indianapolis USA, Editor. 2003, Tochigi Cancer Center, Utsunomiya: Tochigi, Japan. p. 1-59. 
van Triest, B., et al., Thymidylate synthase level as the main predictive parameter for sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil, 
but not for folate-based thymidylate synthase inhibitors, in 13 nonselected colon cancer cell lines. Clin Cancer Res, 
1999. 5(3): p. 643-54. 
Tonkinson, J.L., et al., Cell cycle modulation by a multitargeted antifolate, LY231514, increases the cytotoxicity 
and antitumor activity of gemcitabine in HT29 colon carcinoma. Cancer Res, 1999. 59(15): p. 3671-6. 
Raymond, E., et al., Pemetrexed disodium combined with oxaliplatin, SN38, or 5-fluorouracil, based on the 
quantitation of drug interactions in human HT29 colon cancer cells. Int J Oncol, 2002. 21(2): p. 361-7. 
van der Wilt, C.L., et al., Modulation of both endogenous folates and thymidine enhance the therapeutic efficacy of 
thymidylate synthase inhibitors. Cancer Res, 2001. 61(9): p. 3675-81. 
Wang, Y., et al., A novel folate transport activity in human mesothelioma cell lines with high affinity and specificity 
for the new-generation antifolate, pemetrexed. Cancer Res, 2002. 62(22): p. 6434-7. 
Pratt, S., et al. Multidrug resistance proteins (MRP) 2 and 5 transport and confer resistance to Alimta [abstract]. in 
American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting; 6-10 April 2002; San Francisco, CA. 2002. 
Habeck, L.L., et al., Substrate specificity of mammalian folylpolyglutamate synthetase for 5,10-
dideazatetrahydrofolate analogs. Mol Pharmacol, 1995. 48(2): p. 326-33. 
Zhao, R., et al., The mechanism of transport of the multitargeted antifolate (MTA) and its cross-resistance pattern 
in cells with markedly impaired transport of methotrexate. Clin Cancer Res, 2000. 6(9): p. 3687-95. 
Sayre, P.H., et al., Multi-targeted antifolates aimed at avoiding drug resistance form covalent closed inhibitory 
complexes with human and Escherichia coli thymidylate synthases. J Mol Biol, 2001. 313(4): p. 813-29. 
Rhee, M.S., T.J. Ryan, and J. Galivan, Glutamyl hydrolase and the multitargeted antifolate LY231514. Cancer 
Chemother Pharmacol, 1999. 44(5): p. 427-32. 
Smith, P.G., et al., Dipyridamole potentiates the in vitro activity of MTA (LY231514) by inhibition of thymidine 
transport. Br J Cancer, 2000. 82(4): p. 924-30. 
Chen, V.J., et al., Preclinical cellular pharmacology of LY231514 (MTA): a comparison with methotrexate, 
LY309887 and raltitrexed for their effects on intracellular folate and nucleoside triphosphate pools in CCRF-CEM 
cells. Br J Cancer, 1998. 78 Suppl 3: p. 27-34. 
Schultz, R.M., et al., Biological activity of the multitargeted antifolate, MTA (LY231514), in human cell lines with 
different resistance mechanisms to antifolate drugs. Semin Oncol, 1999. 26(2 Suppl 6): p. 68-73. 
Dempsey, J.A. and R.M. Schultz, Synergistic Effect of Pemetrexed (Alimta, LY231514) Combined with Cisplatin in 
MSTO-211H Human Mesothelioma Cells [Nonclinical Pharmacology Report 42]. 2003, Lilly Research 
Laboratories Eli Lilly and Company: Indianapolis, USA. p. 1-24. 
Adjei, A.A., et al., Phase I and pharmacologic study of sequences of gemcitabine and the multitargeted antifolate 
agent in patients with advanced solid tumors. J Clin Oncol, 2000. 18(8): p. 1748-57. 
Tesei, A., et al., In Vitro schedule-dependent interactions between the multitargeted antifolate LY231514 and 
gemcitabine in human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines. Clin Cancer Res, 2002. 8(1): p. 233-9. 
van der Wilt, C.L., C.M. Kuiper, and G.J. Peters, Combination studies of antifolates with 5-fluorouracil in colon 
cancer cell lines. Oncol Res, 1999. 11(8): p. 383-91. 
Bischof, M., et al., Interaction of pemetrexed disodium (ALIMTA, multitargeted antifolate) and irradiation in vitro. 
Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys, 2002. 52(5): p. 1381-8. 
Mauceri, H.J., et al., Treatment of head and neck and esophageal xenografts employing Alimta and concurrent 
ionizing radiation. Int J Oncol, 2001. 19(4): p. 833-5. 
International Conference on Harmonization, M4 Safety - Nonclinical Summaries and Organisation of Module 4. 
2003. 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, CPMP/SWP/997/96  Note for guidance on Pre-Clinical Evaluation 
of Anticancer Medicinal Products. 1998. 
International Conference on Harmonization, Topic S7A, Step 5 Note for Guidance on Safety Pharmacology Studies 
for Human Pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/539/00 - adopted November 2000). 2000. 
The European Parliament And The Council Of The European Union, Directive 2001/83/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for 
human use. Official Journal of the European Communities, 2001(L 311/68). 
European Commission, Carcinogenic Potential, in Enterprise DG - Pharmaceuticals EUDRALEX, Volume 3. 
Medicinal Products for Human Use : Guidelines. 1983. 
Jackman, A.L., et al., Modulation of anti-metabolite effects. Effects of thymidine on the efficacy of the quinazoline-
based thymidylate synthetase inhibitor, CB3717. Biochem Pharmacol, 1984. 33(20): p. 3269-75. 
Freireich, E.J., et al., Quantitative comparison of toxicity of anticancer agents in mouse, rat, hamster, dog, monkey, 
and man. Cancer Chemother Rep, 1966. 50(4): p. 219-44. 
53/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
Philips, F.S., et al., Toxicologic studies of the 2,4-diamino-quinazoline antifolate, methasquin (NSC-122870). 
Cancer Chemother Rep, 1971. 55(1): p. 35-42. 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, CPMP/SWP/1042/99 Note for Guidance on Repeated Dose Toxicity 
(CPMP adopted July 2000). 2000. 
Bleyer, W.A., New vistas for leucovorin in cancer chemotherapy. Cancer, 1989. 63(6 Suppl): p. 995-1007. 
Valeriote, F. and G. Santelli, 5-Fluorouracil (FUra). Pharmacol Ther, 1984. 24(1): p. 107-32. 
Jacky, P.B., B. Beek, and G.R. Sutherland, Fragile sites in chromosomes: possible model for the study of 
spontaneous chromosome breakage. Science, 1983. 220(4592): p. 69-70. 
Curtin, N.J., A.L. Harris, and G.W. Aherne, Mechanism of cell death following thymidylate synthase inhibition: 2'-
deoxyuridine-5'-triphosphate accumulation, DNA damage, and growth inhibition following exposure to CB3717 
and dipyridamole. Cancer Res, 1991. 51(9): p. 2346-52. 
Lorico, A., et al., Accumulation of DNA strand breaks in cells exposed to methotrexate or N10-propargyl-5,8-
dideazafolic acid. Cancer Res, 1988. 48(8): p. 2036-41. 
International Conference on Harmonization, Topic S2A, Step 5 Note for Guidance on Genotoxicity: Guidance on 
Specific Aspects of Regulatory Genotoxicity Tests for Pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/141/95 - adopted September 
95). 1995. 
Schardein, J.L., Cancer chemotherapeutic agents, in Chemically induced birth defects. 1993, Marcel Dekker Inc: 
New York. p. 457-508. 
Shepard, T.H., Entry 1354, methotrexate, in Catalog of teratogenic agents, T.J.H.U. Press, Editor. 1992: Baltimore. 
p. 255-256. 
International Conference on Harmonization, Topic S5A, Step 5  Note for Guidance on Reproductive Toxicology: 
Detection of Toxicity to Reproduction for Medicinal Products (CPMP/ICH/386/95). 1993. 
Taylor, E.C., et al., A dideazatetrahydrofolate analogue lacking a chiral center at C-6, N-[4-[2-(2-amino-3,4-
dihydro-4-oxo-7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-5- yl)ethyl]benzoyl]-L-glutamic acid, is an inhibitor of thymidylate 
synthase. J Med Chem, 1992. 35(23): p. 4450-4. 
Beal, S. and L.A.t. Sheiner, NONMEM software, GloboMax LLC, Editor. 1999: Hanover, Maryland, USA. 
Cockcroft, D.W. and M.H. Gault, Prediction of creatinine clearance from serum creatinine. Nephron, 1976. 16(1): 
p. 31-41. 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, CPMP/EWP/225/02 Note for Guidance on the Evaluation of the 
Pharmacokinetics of Medicinal Products in Patients with Impaired Renal Function (Released for consultation 
March 2003). 2003. 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, CPMP/EWP/560/95  Note for Guidance on the Investigation of 
Drug Interactions (CPMP adopted Dec. 97). 1997. 
Gormley, P.E., et al., Kinetics of cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum. Clin Pharmacol Ther, 1979. 25(3): p. 351-7. 
Himmelstein, K.J., et al., Clinical kinetics on intact cisplatin and some related species. Clin Pharmacol Ther, 1981. 
29(5): p. 658-64. 
O'Dwyer, P.J., J.P. Stevenson, and S.W. Johnson, Clinical pharmacokinetics and administration of established 
platinum drugs. Drugs, 2000. 59 Suppl 4: p. 19-27. 
European Commission, Pharmacokinetic Studies in Man, in Enterprise DG - Pharmaceuticals EUDRALEX, 
Volume 3. Medicinal Products for Human Use : Guidelines. 1987. 
Friberg, L.E., et al., Model of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression with parameter consistency across drugs. J 
Clin Oncol, 2002. 20(24): p. 4713-21. 
Stabler, S.P., et al., Elevation of serum cystathionine levels in patients with cobalamin and folate deficiency. Blood, 
1993. 81(12): p. 3404-13. 
Allen, R.H., et al., Metabolic abnormalities in cobalamin (vitamin B12) and folate deficiency. Faseb J, 1993. 7(14): 
p. 1344-53. 
Niyikiza, C., et al., Homocysteine and methylmalonic acid: markers to predict and avoid toxicity from pemetrexed 
therapy. Mol Cancer Ther, 2002. 1(7): p. 545-52. 
Bunn P, P.P., Niyikiza C, Rusthoven J, Nelson K, Hanauske A, Stabler S, Calvert AH, Allen R. 2001. Vitamin B12 
and folate reduce toxicity of ALIMTA (pemetrexed disodium, LY231514, MTA), a novel antifolate/antimetabolite 
[abstract]. in In: Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 37th annual meeting program/proceedings; 2001 May 12-15; San 
Francisco. Alexandra (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology. 20(1):76a. Abstract 300. 2001. 
Schmitz, J.C., et al., Impact of dietary folic acid on reduced folates in mouse plasma and tissues. Relationship to 
dideazatetrahydrofolate sensitivity. Biochem Pharmacol, 1994. 48(2): p. 319-25. 
Zhao, R. and I.D. Goldman, Resistance to antifolates. Oncogene, 2003. 22(47): p. 7431-57. 
Rinaldi, D.A., et al., A phase I evaluation of multitargeted antifolate (MTA, LY231514), administered every 21 
days, utilizing the modified continual reassessment method for dose escalation. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol, 
1999. 44(5): p. 372-80. 
Hughes, A., et al., Clinical activity against malignant mesothelioma in a phase I trial of MTA (LY231514) in 
combination with carboplatin. ProcAm Soc Clin Oncol 18:214a, 1999: p. Abstract A823. 
Calvert, A.H., et al., ALIMTA in combination with carboplatin demonstrates clinical activity against malignant 
mesothelioma in a phase I trial. ProcAm Soc Clin Oncol 19, 2000: p. Abstract A1936. 
Calvert, A.H., et al., ALIMTA in combination with carboplatin demonstrates clinical activity against malignant 
mesothelioma in a phase I trial. Lung Cancer 29(Suppl 1):19-20, 2000: p. Abstract A59. 
Calvert, A.H., et al., ALIMTA in combination with carboplatin demonstrates clinical activity against malignant 
mesothelioma in a phase I trial. Lung Cancer 29(Suppl 2), 2000: p. 73-74. 
Calvert, A.H., et al., MTA (LY231514) demonstrates clinical activity against malignant mesothelioma in a phase I 
combination trial with carboplatin. Eur J Cancer 35(Suppl 4):S285, 2000: p. Abstract A1146. 
Vogelzang, N.J., et al., Phase III study of pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin versus cisplatin alone in 
patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. J Clin Oncol, 2003. 21(14): p. 2636-44. 
54/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 
110. 
111. 
112. 
113. 
114. 
115. 
116. 
117. 
118. 
119. 
Shargel, L. and A.B.C. Yu, Applied Biopharmaceutics. Second Edition, Appleton- and Century-Crofts, Editors. 
1985: Norwalk, CT. p. 310-312. 
Green, S. and G.R. Weiss, Southwest Oncology Group standard response criteria, endpoint definitions and toxicity 
criteria. Invest New Drugs, 1992. 10(4): p. 239-53. 
Therasse, P., et al., New guidelines to evaluate the response to treatment in solid tumors. European Organization 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer, National Cancer Institute of the United States, National Cancer Institute of 
Canada. J Natl Cancer Inst, 2000. 92(3): p. 205-16. 
Pocock, S.J. and R. Simon, Sequential treatment assignment with balancing for prognostic factors in the controlled 
clinical trial. Biometrics, 1975. 31(1): p. 103-15. 
Scagliotti, G., et al., Phase II study of ALIMTA (pemetrexed disodium, MTA) single agent in patients with 
malignant pleural mesothelioma. European Journal of Cancer, 2001: p. Annual meeting program; 2001 Oct 21-25; 
Lisbon. Pergamon pS20. Abstract 66. 
Gralla, R., et al., Health-related Quality of Life of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma treated with 
pemetrexed disodium. European Journal of Cancer, 2001: p. Annual meeting program; 2001 Oct 21-25; Lisbon. 
Pergamon pPS282. Abstract 1039. 
Byrne, M.J., et al., Cisplatin and gemcitabine treatment for malignant mesothelioma: a phase II study. J Clin 
Oncol, 1999. 17(1): p. 25-30. 
Shin, D.M., et al., Prospective study of combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and 
cisplatin for unresectable or metastatic malignant pleural mesothelioma. Cancer, 1995. 76(11): p. 2230-6. 
Mintzer, D.M., et al., Phase II trial of high-dose cisplatin in patients with malignant mesothelioma. Cancer Treat 
Rep, 1985. 69(6): p. 711-2. 
Zidar, B.L., et al., A phase II evaluation of cisplatin in unresectable diffuse malignant mesothelioma: a Southwest 
Oncology Group Study. Invest New Drugs, 1988. 6(3): p. 223-6. 
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Collaborative Group, Chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis 
using updated data on individual patients from 52 randomised clinical trials. Bmj, 1995. 311(7010): p. 899-909. 
Klastersky, J., et al., A randomized study comparing a high and a standard dose of cisplatin in combination with 
etoposide in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung carcinoma. J Clin Oncol, 1986. 4(12): p. 1780-6. 
Hanna, N., et al., Randomized phase III trial of pemetrexed versus docetaxel in patients with non-small-cell lung 
cancer previously treated with chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol, 2004. 22(9): p. 1589-97. 
Freedman, L.S., Tables of the number of patients required in clinical trials using the logrank test. Stat Med, 1982. 
1(2): p. 121-9. 
Peterson, P., Generalized Linear-Rank Tests for Noninferiority Comparisons. Joint Statistical Meetings 1999 
Abstract Book, 1999: p. 380. 
Schoenfeld, D.A., Sample-size formula for the proportional-hazards regression model. Biometrics, 1983. 39(2): p. 
499-503. 
Rothmann, M., et al., Design and analysis of non-inferiority mortality trials in oncology. Stat Med, 2003. 22(2): p. 
239-64. 
Smit, E.F., et al., ALIMTA (pemetrexed disodium) as second-line treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase 
II study. Ann Oncol, 2003. 14(3): p. 455-60. 
Clarke, S.J., et al., Phase II trial of pemetrexed disodium (ALIMTA, LY231514) in chemotherapy-naive patients 
with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Ann Oncol, 2002. 13(5): p. 737-41. 
Rusthoven, J.J., et al., Multitargeted antifolate LY231514 as first-line chemotherapy for patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer: A phase II study. National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group. J Clin 
Oncol, 1999. 17(4): p. 1194. 
Manegold, C., et al., Front-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer with MTA (LY231514, 
pemetrexed disodium, ALIMTA) and cisplatin: a multicenter phase II trial. Ann Oncol, 2000. 11(4): p. 435-40. 
Shepherd, F.A., et al., Phase II study of pemetrexed disodium, a multitargeted antifolate, and cisplatin as first-line 
therapy in patients with advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma: a study of the National Cancer Institute of 
Canada Clinical Trials Group. Cancer, 2001. 92(3): p. 595-600. 
55/55 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
