EMA/858317/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000564 
EPAR summary for the public 
Alimta 
pemetrexed 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Alimta. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Alimta. 
What is Alimta? 
Alimta is a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip into a vein). It contains the active 
substance pemetrexed. 
What is Alimta used for? 
Alimta is used to treat two types of lung cancer: 
  malignant pleural mesothelioma (a cancer of the lining of the lungs that is usually caused by 
exposure to asbestos),where it is used together with cisplatin in patients who have not received 
chemotherapy before and whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery; 
 
advanced ‘non small cell’ lung cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’, where it is used either 
in combination with cisplatin in previously untreated patients or on its own in patients who have 
previously received anticancer treatment. It can also be used as a maintenance treatment in 
patients who have received a platinum-based chemotherapy. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Alimta used? 
Alimta should only be given under the supervision of a doctor who is qualified in the use of 
chemotherapy. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Alimta is 500 mg per square metre of body surface area (calculated using 
the patient’s height and weight). It is given once every three weeks as an infusion lasting 10 minutes. 
To reduce side effects, patients should take a corticosteroid (a type of medicine that reduces 
inflammation) and folic acid (a type of vitamin), and receive injections of vitamin B12 during treatment 
with Alimta. When Alimta is given with cisplatin, an ‘anti emetic’ medicine (to prevent vomiting) and 
fluids (to prevent dehydration) should also be given before or after the cisplatin dose. 
Treatment should be delayed or stopped, or the dose reduced, in patients whose blood counts are 
abnormal or who have certain other side effects. For more information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Alimta work? 
The active substance in Alimta, pemetrexed, is a cytotoxic medicine (a medicine that kills cells that are 
dividing, such as cancer cells), which belongs to the group ‘antimetabolites’. In the body, pemetrexed 
is converted into an active form that blocks the activity of the enzymes that are involved in producing 
‘nucleotides’ (the building blocks of DNA and RNA, the genetic material of cells). As a result, the active 
form of pemetrexed slows down the formation of DNA and RNA and prevents the cells from dividing 
and multiplying. The conversion of pemetrexed into its active form occurs more readily in cancer cells 
than in normal cells, leading to higher levels of the active form of the medicine and a longer duration 
of action in cancer cells. This results in the division of cancer cells being reduced, while normal cells 
are only slightly affected. 
How has Alimta been studied? 
For the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma, Alimta in combination with cisplatin has been 
compared with cisplatin alone in one main study in 456 patients who had not received chemotherapy 
for their disease before. 
For the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non small cell lung cancer, Alimta was compared 
with gemcitabine (another anticancer medicine), in combination with cisplatin, in a study involving 
1,725 patients who had not received chemotherapy before.  
Alimta was also compared with docetaxel (another anticancer medicine) in one study involving 571 
patients who had received chemotherapy in the past. For maintenance treatment, Alimta was 
compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies involving 1,202 patients whose 
cancer had not got worse during platinum-based chemotherapy. 
The main measures of effectiveness were how long the patients survived and how long they lived 
without their cancer getting worse. 
What benefit has Alimta shown during the studies? 
Alimta increased the survival time of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. Patients receiving 
Alimta and cisplatin survived for an average of 12.1 months, compared with 9.3 months in those 
receiving cisplatin alone. 
In the treatment of non small cell lung cancer, Alimta was as effective as the comparators, with 
survival times around 10.3 months in patients who had not received chemotherapy in the past, and 
around 8.1 months in those who had received chemotherapy in the past.  
In one maintenance treatment study, patients receiving Alimta lived for a further 4.3 months from the 
start of maintenance treatment without their cancer getting worse, compared with 2.6 months in those 
Alimta  
EMA/858317/2011  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
receiving placebo. In the second maintenance study, the figures were 4.1 months in the Alimta and 2.8 
months in the placebo group. 
Improved survival times with Alimta were only seen in patients with non small cell lung cancer of the 
non-squamous type. 
What is the risk associated with Alimta? 
The most common side effects with Alimta, used on its own or with other anticancer medicines, are 
bone marrow suppression (when the bone marrow produces less blood cells than normal) and 
gastrointestinal toxicities (side effects affecting the stomach and gut). Bone marrow suppression 
causes decreased levels in the blood of white blood cells (the cells that fight infection), platelets 
(components that help the blood to clot) and haemoglobin (the protein found in red blood cells that 
carries oxygen around the body). The gastrointestinal toxicities seen with Alimta are loss of appetite, 
nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, diarrhoea, constipation, pharyngitis (sore throat), and mucositis or 
stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the digestive system and mouth). For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Alimta, see the package leaflet. 
Alimta must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to pemetrexed or any of the other 
ingredients. It must not be used during breast-feeding or at the same time as the vaccine for yellow 
fever. Alimta affects fertility, so both men and women who receive it need to be made aware of this. 
Why has Alimta been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Alimta’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Alimta 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Alimta on 20 September 2004.  
The full EPAR for Alimta can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Alimta, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2011. 
Alimta  
EMA/858317/2011  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
