EMA/58005/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004416 
EPAR summary for the public 
Alkindi 
hydrocortisone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Alkindi. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Alkindi. 
For practical information about using Alkindi, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Alkindi and what is it used for? 
Alkindi is a medicine for children (from birth to up to 18 years of age) whose adrenal glands cannot 
make enough of a hormone called cortisol. 
Cortisol is needed to control many body processes (including inflammation and the control of sugar and 
mineral levels) and is sometimes referred to as the ‘stress hormone’ because it helps the body respond 
to stress. A lack of the hormone causes several symptoms, including weight loss, muscle weakness, 
tiredness and low blood pressure. 
Alkindi is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance (in this case Hydrocortisone Tablets Auden Mckenzie), but Alkindi is available in 
a different form (granules instead of tablets) and has been developed for children only.  
Alkindi contains the active substance hydrocortisone. 
How is Alkindi used? 
Alkindi is available as capsules containing granules. The capsules are opened and the granules are 
placed in the child’s mouth. The child should then be given water or milk to swallow the granules. The 
granules can also be sprinkled on a spoonful of soft food and given to the child immediately. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The dose is chosen to be lowest possible that controls the child’s symptoms. For further information, 
see the package leaflet.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Alkindi work? 
The active substance in Alkindi, hydrocortisone, is the same as cortisol, the main steroid hormone 
released by the body’s adrenal gland. Hydrocortisone replaces the natural cortisol that is missing in 
children whose adrenal glands do not produce enough of the hormone, thereby helping to relieve their 
symptoms. 
What benefits of Alkindi have been shown in studies? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance have already been carried out with the 
reference medicine and do not need to be repeated for Alkindi.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Alkindi. The company also 
carried out studies to show that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore 
expected to have the same effect. 
What are the risks associated with Alkindi? 
No side effects were reported in studies with Alkindi, but some side effects have been reported with 
other hydrocortisone medicines. These include changes in behaviour, nausea, inflammation in the 
lining of the stomach and changes in blood potassium levels and excess acid in the blood. For the full 
list of side effects see the package leaflet. 
Alkindi must not be used in patients with hypersensitivity (allergy) to the active substance or to any of 
the ingredients of Alkindi. It must also not be used in children with difficulty swallowing or in 
premature babies who haven’t started feeding by mouth. 
Why is Alkindi approved? 
Alkindi produces similar levels of hydrocortisone in the blood to a reference medicine already 
authorised in the EU. Alkindi is also available in a form suitable for children and it is easier to give a 
precise dose with Alkindi than with other treatments which require crushing tablets and weighing up 
the right dose. 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that the benefits of Alkindi are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Alkindi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Alkindi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Alkindi  
EMA/58005/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Alkindi 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Alkindi on 9 February 2018. 
The full EPAR for Alkindi can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Alkindi, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2018. 
Alkindi  
EMA/58005/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
