ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alofisel 5 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for injection. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
2.1  General description 
Alofisel (darvadstrocel) is expanded human allogeneic mesenchymal adult stem cells extracted from 
adipose tissue (expanded adipose stem cells - eASC). 
2.2  Qualitative and quantitative composition 
Each vial contains 30 × 106 cells (eASC) in 6 mL of dispersion, corresponding to a concentration of 
5 × 106 cells/mL. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersion for injection (injection). 
The dispersion of cells may have settled in the bottom of the vial forming a sediment. After gentle 
re-suspension, the product is a white to yellowish homogeneous dispersion. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Alofisel is indicated for the treatment of complex perianal fistulas in adult patients with 
non-active/mildly active luminal Crohn’s disease, when fistulas have shown an inadequate response to 
at least one conventional or biologic therapy. Alofisel should be used only after conditioning of the 
fistulas (see section 4.2). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Alofisel should only be administered by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of conditions for which Alofisel is indicated. 
Posology 
A single dose of darvadstrocel consists of 120 × 106 cells supplied in 4 vials. Each vial contains 
30 × 106 cells in 6 mL of dispersion. The full content of the 4 vials must be administered for the 
treatment of up to two internal openings and up to three external openings. This means that with a 
dose of 120 × 106 cells it is possible to treat up to three fistula tracts that open to the perianal area. 
The efficacy or safety of repeat administration of Alofisel has not been established.  
Special populations 
Elderly  
Data on the use of darvadstrocel in the elderly population are limited, however, given the cell-based 
nature of darvadstrocel and its local administration route it is not expected that the benefit-risk profile 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of darvadstrocel in elderly patients will differ from that observed in non-elderly patients. Therefore, no 
dose adjustment is required in elderly patients.  
Hepatic impairment 
Data on the use of darvadstrocel in patients with hepatic impairment are not available. However, given 
the cell-based nature of darvadstrocel and its local administration route it is not expected that the 
benefit-risk profile of darvadstrocel in hepatically impaired patients will differ from that observed in 
non-hepatically impaired patients. Therefore, no dose adjustment is required in hepatically impaired 
patients.  
Renal impairment 
Data on the use of darvadstrocel in patients with renal impairment are not available. However, given 
the cell-based nature of darvadstrocel and its local administration route it is not expected that the 
benefit-risk profile of darvadstrocel in renally impaired patients will differ from that observed in 
non-renally impaired patients. Therefore, no dose adjustment is required in renally impaired patients. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of darvadstrocel in children and adolescents aged 0 to 17 years have not yet 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Perilesional use. 
For injection in the fistula tract tissue in a surgical environment under anaesthesia (general or regional 
(see section 4.4)) as described below.  
In line with standards for the management of complex perianal fistulas, characterisation of the 
patient’s fistulas is needed prior to treatment. It is recommended that at least 2 to 3 weeks before the 
administration day, preparatory surgery is performed comprising exploration (under anaesthesia) of 
fistula anatomy (number of existing fistulas and openings), topography (extent and relationship with 
the sphincters and other pelvic muscles), potential associated complications (such as abscesses) and 
whether local mucosal disease is mild or inactive. Vigorous curettage of all fistula tracts is 
recommended, with special emphasis in the internal openings area, using a metallic curette. In case of 
an abscess, incision and drainage are needed, and setons should be placed, if appropriate, in 
accordance with routine surgical procedures. Before scheduling Alofisel administration, the surgeon 
must ensure that no abscesses are present.  
Immediately prior to the administration of Alofisel, the fistula tracts should be conditioned as follows: 
a)  If setons are in place, they must be removed.  
b)  Identify the location of the internal openings. For this, injection of a sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution through the external openings until it gets out through the 
internal openings is recommended. The injection of any other substance through the fistula 
tracts, such as hydrogen peroxide, methylene blue, iodine solutions or hypertonic glucose 
solutions is not allowed, as these agents compromise the viability of the cells to be injected 
(see section 4.4 and section 4.5). 
c)  Perform a vigorous curettage of all fistula tracts, with special emphasis in the internal 
openings areas, using a metallic curette. 
d)  Suture closed the internal openings.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After conditioning of the fistula tracts, Alofisel should be administered according to the following two 
steps: 
1. 
Preparation 
a)  The expiry time: date of Alofisel should be re-confirmed; vials should then be 
removed from the outer packaging. 
b)  Re-suspend the cells by gently tapping the bottom of the vials until a homogeneous 
dispersion is obtained, avoiding bubble formation. Each vial should be used 
immediately after re-suspension to prevent the cells from re-sedimenting. 
c)  Remove the cap from the vial, gently turn the vial upside down, and gently aspirate 
the whole content using a syringe with a conventional needle no thinner than 22G 
(see section 4.4).  
d)  Replace the needle with a longer needle, also no thinner than 22G, in order to reach 
the intended sites of injection. For example, a needle for spinal anaesthesia 
measuring around 90 mm in length is required. 
e)  Repeat steps (b), (c) and (d) for each of the vials in turn after the cells from one 
vial have been injected. 
2. 
Injection 
Two of the vials should be used for the internal openings and the remaining two for 
injection along the walls of the fistula tracts (via external openings). After inserting the 
needle tip into each intended injection site, perform a slight aspiration to avoid 
intravascular administration. 
a)  Injection around the internal openings of the fistula tracts: insert the needle through 
- 
- 
the anus and proceed as follows: 
If there is a single internal opening, inject the content of each of the two vials (one 
after the other) in small deposits into the tissue surrounding the single internal 
opening. 
If there are two internal openings, inject the content of the first of two vials in 
small deposits into the tissue around one internal opening. Then inject the content 
of the second vial in small deposits into the tissue around the second internal 
opening.  
b)  Injection along the walls of the fistula tracts: insert the needle through the external 
- 
- 
openings and, from within the fistula lumen: 
If there is a single external opening, inject separately the content of each of the 
remaining two vials superficially into the tissue walls along the length of the fistula 
tracts, making small deposits of the cell dispersion.  
If there are two or three external openings, inject the content of the remaining two 
vials equally between the associated tracts.  
The procedure for injection along the walls of the fistula tracts should be 
performed based on prior knowledge of the anatomy and topology of the fistula 
tracts, as determined during the fistula characterisation. Ensure cells are not 
injected into the lumen of the fistula tracts to avoid leakage of cells.  
Softly massage the area around the external openings for 20–30 seconds and cover the external 
openings with a sterile bandage.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, bovine serum or any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based therapy medicinal products must apply. To ensure 
traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient must be kept 
for a period of 30 years after the expiry date of the product. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General 
Alofisel may contain trace amounts of either gentamicin or benzylpenicillin and streptomycin. This 
should be considered in patients with known hypersensitivity to these classes of antibiotics.  
Local anaesthesia is not recommended due to the unknown effect of local anaesthetics on the injected 
cells (see section 4.2). 
The injection of any substance other than sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution (e.g. hydrogen 
peroxide, methylene blue, iodine solutions or hypertonic glucose solutions) (see section 4.2 and 
section 4.5) through the fistula tracts is not allowed before, during, or after the injection of Alofisel as 
these may compromise the viability of the cells and, therefore, may affect the effectiveness of the 
treatment. 
Alofisel must not be administered using a needle thinner than 22G. Thinner gauge needles can cause 
cell disruption during injection and may compromise cell viability and, therefore, may affect efficacy 
of treatment. 
Transmission of an infectious agent 
As Alofisel is a living stem cell therapy it cannot be sterilised, a risk of transmission of infectious 
agents exists, although the risk is considered to be low and controlled in the manufacturing process. 
Healthcare professionals administering darvadstrocel must, therefore, monitor patients for signs and 
symptoms of infections after treatment and treat appropriately, if needed. 
Conditioning reactions 
Conditioning of fistulas has been associated with proctalgia and procedural pain (see section 4.8). 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Alofisel must not donate blood, organs, tissues and cells for transplantation. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No in vivo interaction studies have been performed.  
In vitro interaction studies have shown that the cell viability and immunomodulatory function of 
Alofisel is not affected by the presence of clinically-relevant concentrations of conventional therapies 
for Crohn’s disease (infliximab, methotrexate and azathioprine). 
The injection of any substance other than sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution (e.g. hydrogen 
peroxide, methylene blue, iodine solutions or hypertonic glucose solutions) (see section 4.2 and 
section 4.4) through the fistula tracts and use of local anaesthesia is not recommended due to the 
unknown effect on the injected cells (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of darvadstrocel in pregnant women. 
Animal studies are not available with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Darvadstrocel is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether darvadstrocel is excreted in human milk. A risk to the breast-fed infant cannot 
be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain 
from Alofisel therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
No data are available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Darvadstrocel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
Based on clinical trial and post-marketing data, the most commonly reported adverse drug reactions 
were anal abscess, proctalgia and anal fistula with the most commonly reported serious adverse drug 
reactions of anal abscess and anal fistula. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following listing of adverse reactions is based on the clinical trial and post-marketing experience 
and is displayed by system organ class. The frequency of adverse reactions is defined from clinical 
trial experience using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000) and not 
known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
Table 1. Adverse reactions 
System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Frequency 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Adverse Reactions 
Anal abscess* 
Proctalgia*, † 
Anal fistula* 
Procedural pain† 
Injuring, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
*Also seen in post-marketing experience 
†Conditioning reactions occurring up to seven days after the fistula preparation for treatment administration.  
Description of selected adverse reactions  
The following adverse reactions were identified in the multicentre, pivotal clinical trial ADMIRE-CD. 
Anal abscess  
Up to week 52, 20 (19.4%) and 14 (13.7%) patients developed 21 and 19 anal abscesses in the Alofisel 
and control groups, respectively, of which 4 and 5 anal abscesses in respective groups (3.9% patients 
in both groups) were of severe intensity. Treatment-related anal abscess were reported in 8 (7.8%) and 
9 (8.8%) patients in the Alofisel and control groups, respectively. Up to week 104, 15 (14.6%) and 8 
(7.8%) patients developed 15 and 9 serious anal abscesses in the Alofisel and control groups, 
respectively. 
Proctalgia 
Up to week 52, 15 (14.6%) and 12 (11.8%) patients developed 20 and 17 proctalgia in the Alofisel and 
control groups, respectively, none of these proctalgia being serious in any group up to week 104. 
Treatment-related proctalgia were reported in 5 (4.9%) and 8 (7.8%) patients in the Alofisel and 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
control groups, respectively. There were no patients in Alofisel group with proctalgia of severe 
intensity and 3.9% patients with 4 proctalgia in the control group. 
Anal fistula 
Up to week 52, 11 (10.7%) and 8 (7.8%) patients developed 12 and 8 anal fistulas in the Alofisel and 
control groups, respectively, none of these being of severe intensity. Treatment-related anal fistula 
were reported in 3 (2.9%) and 3 (2.9%) patients in the Alofisel and control groups, respectively. Up to 
week 104, 5 (4.9%) and one (< 1.0%) patients developed 5 and 1 serious anal fistulas in the Alofisel 
and control groups, respectively. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No data regarding overdose of Alofisel is available. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AX08. 
Mechanism of action 
Darvadstrocel contains expanded adipose stem cells (eASC), which exhibit immunomodulatory and 
anti-inflammatory effects at inflammation sites.  
Anal fistulas typically present as fissures penetrating the intestinal lumen and perianal skin surface, 
and are characterised by local inflammation that is exacerbated by bacterial infections and faecal 
contamination. In the inflamed area, there is infiltration of activated lymphocytes and local release of 
inflammatory cytokines. 
Inflammatory cytokines, in particular IFN-γ released by activated immune cells (i.e., lymphocytes), 
activate eASC. Once activated, eASC impair proliferation of activated lymphocytes and reduce the 
release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. This immunoregulatory activity reduces inflammation, which 
may allow the tissues around the fistula tract to heal.  
Pharmacodynamic effect 
In the ADMIRE-CD study, 63/103 of the eASC-treated patient population were analysed for the 
presence of donor-specific antibodies (DSA) at baseline and week 12. At week 12, 23/63 (36%) 
showed anti-donor antibody production. Of patients with DSA at week 12, 7/23 (30%) had cleared 
DSA by week 52. Lack of de novo DSA generation was observed between week 12 and week 52. No 
association between DSA results and safety or efficacy up to week 52 was seen in the subset tested. 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of Alofisel was assessed in the ADMIRE-CD study. This was a randomised, double 
blind, parallel group, placebo-controlled, multicentre clinical trial to assess efficacy and safety of 
Alofisel for the treatment of complex perianal fistulas in Crohn’s disease patients.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 212 patients were randomised, and 205 patients received a local injection of either 
darvadstrocel 120 × 106 cells or placebo in a 1:1 design. Patients had draining complex perianal 
fistulas with an inadequate response to at least one of the following treatments: antibiotics, 
immunosuppressants or anti-TNFs. Concomitant use of stable doses of immunosuppressants (18% of 
patients) or anti-TNFs (33%) or both (28%) was allowed during the study.  
The primary endpoint was the combined remission at week 24 after study treatment, defined as clinical 
closure of all treated fistulas (absence of draining despite gentle finger compression) and absence of 
collection (> 2 cm) confirmed by blinded central MRI. The key secondary endpoints were defined as 
clinical remission (clinical closure of all treated fistula) and response (clinical closure of at least 50% 
of all treated fistulas) at week 24. In addition, a long-term follow-up was conducted up to week 52. 
Alofisel group 
(Alofisel+standard of 
care*) 
N=103 
Control group 
(Placebo+standard of 
care*) 
N=102 
P value 
Combined remission at 
week 24 (% patients) 
Combined remission at 
week 52 (% patients) 
* Including abscess drainage, seton placement/removal, curettage, suture of internal openings and medical treatments 
52 
35 
56 
38 
0.019 
0.009 
Results of the key secondary endpoints show that the proportion of patients with clinical remission at 
week 24 was 55% in the Alofisel group and 42% in the control group (p = 0.052) and the 
corresponding figures for response were 69% and 55% (p = 0.039). 
The proportion of patients with clinical remission at week 52 was 59% in the Alofisel group and 41% 
in the control group (p = 0.012) and corresponding figures for response were 66% and 
55% (p = 0.114). In a limited number of patients followed up to week 104, clinical remission at 
week 104 was 56% in the Alofisel group and 40% in the control group. 
In Alofisel group, the number of patients who had combined remission at week 24 and subsequently 
developed anal abscess/anal fistula by week 52 was 2.9% (3/103), whereas the number of patients 
without combined remission at week 24 who subsequently developed anal abscess/anal fistula by 
week 52 was 9.7% (10/103). 
In control group, the number of patients who had combined remission at week 24 who developed anal 
abscess/anal fistula by week 52 was 4.9% (5/102), whereas the number of patients without combined 
remission at week 24 who developed anal abscess/anal fistula by week 52 was 2.9% (3/102). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Alofisel in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of anal fistula (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The nature and intended clinical use of darvadstrocel are such that conventional studies of 
pharmacokinetics (absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination) are not applicable. 
Biodistribution studies in preclinical models were conducted with the objective of evaluating the 
persistence of eASC at the site of injection and their potential migration into other tissues or organ 
systems. After perianal and intrarectal injection of human eASC in athymic rats, cells were present in 
the rectum and jejunum at the site of injection for at least 14 days and were undetectable after 
3 months. eASC were not present in any of the tissues analysed after 3 months or 6 months.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology and repeated dose toxicity. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been performed for darvadstrocel because 
preclinical biodistribution studies indicated no migration and integration of eASC into reproductive 
organs following administration of eASC via different routes. 
The effect of ex vivo expansion on the genetic stability of cells has been assessed in vitro without any 
indication of carcinogenic potential.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle´s Medium (DMEM) (containing amino acids, vitamins, salts and 
carbohydrates). 
Human albumin. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
72 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store between 15 ºC and 25 ºC.  
Keep the medicinal product within the outer carton to protect from light and moisture, and inside the 
shipping container at all times until its administration, to maintain the required temperature.  
Preserve the container away from heat and direct light sources. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Do not irradiate or otherwise sterilise. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container and special equipment for use, administration or 
implantation 
Type I glass vial. Each vial contains 6 mL of eASC dispersion and is closed with a rubber stopper and 
a flip-off seal. The vials are placed inside a cardboard box. 
Pack size: 4 vials. 
1 dose consists of 4 vials of 6 mL (in total 24 mL). 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation prior to administration 
Alofisel must not be filtered or administered using a needle thinner than 22G (see section 4.4). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immediately before use, Alofisel must be re-suspended by gently tapping the bottom of the vial until a 
homogeneous dispersion is obtained, avoiding bubble formation. For further information on the use of 
Alofisel see section 4.2. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Alofisel (solid and liquid 
waste) must be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1261/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 March 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 10 January 2023  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
TIGENIX, S.A.U. 
C/ Marconi, 1, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, 28760 Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain 
Takeda Ireland Ltd. 
Grange Castle Business Park, Nangor Road, Dublin 22, D22 XR57, Ireland 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
TIGENIX, S.A.U. 
C/ Marconi, 1, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, 28760 Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain 
Takeda Ireland Ltd.  
Grange Castle Business Park, Nangor Road, Dublin 22, D22 XR57, Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to the launch of Alofisel in each Member State, the MAH must agree about the content and 
format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution modalities and 
any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. The aim of the 
educational programme is to provide information on how to correctly administer the product in order 
to minimise the risk of medication errors and to increase awareness about the potential transmission of 
infectious agents. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Alofisel is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to handle and administer Alofisel have access to the educational 
package for health professionals. 
•  The educational material for health professionals should contain: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Guide for pharmacists with instructions on the appropriate reception and storage of 
Alofisel.  
•  Guide in form of a video for surgeons and other health professionals involved in the 
preparation and administration of Alofisel. 
•  Guide for surgeons and other health professionals describing the method of 
administration 
•  Guide for health professionals providing information on potential for microbial 
information and advice on steps to follow in case a positive culture is identified. 
•  These shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Relevant information on the risk of medication errors and the potential for 
transmission of infectious agents and details on how to minimise these, including 
reception, storage and administration instructions (i.e. fistula conditioning, preparation 
and injection).  
Instructions how to handle medication errors and transmission of infectious agents 
• 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
In order to follow-up on the efficacy of Alofisel, the MAH should submit the results 
of a Phase III randomised double-blind, placebo-controlled study Cx601-0303 
investigating a single administration of Cx601 for the treatment of complex perianal 
fistulas in Crohn's disease patients. 
Due date 
Final Report 
to EMA: 
1Q/2Q 2024 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ALOFISEL 5 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for injection. 
Darvadstrocel.  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 30 × 106 cells in 6 mL of dispersion. 
The medicine contains cells of human origin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle´s Medium (DMEM) and Human albumin. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for injection. 
1 dose consists of 4 vials of 6 mL (in total 24 mL) 
30 × 106 cells/6 mL 
4 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Perilesional use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store between 15 ºC and 25 ºC. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze.  
Keep the medicinal product within the outer carton to protect from light and moisture, and inside the 
shipping container at all times until its administration, to maintain required temperature. 
Do not irradiate or otherwise sterilise. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1261/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable.  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
GLASS VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
ALOFISEL 5 × 106 cells/mL injection. 
Darvadstrocel. 
Perilesional use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER<, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES> 
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 × 106 cells/6 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Alofisel 5 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for injection 
darvadstrocel  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
− 
− 
− 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or surgeon. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your surgeon or doctor. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Alofisel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Alofisel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Alofisel is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Alofisel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Alofisel is and what it is used for 
The active ingredient of Alofisel is darvadstrocel which consists of stem cells which are taken from 
the fat tissue of a healthy adult donor (so-called allogenic stem cells) and then grown in a laboratory. 
Adult stem cells are a special type of cells found in many adult tissues, whose primary role is the 
repair of the tissue in which they are found.  
Alofisel is a medicine used for the treatment of complex perianal fistulas in adult patients with 
Crohn´s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the gut) when the other symptoms of the disease 
are controlled or have a mild intensity. Perianal fistulas are abnormal channels that connect parts of 
the lower bowel (rectum and anus) and the skin near the anus, so that one or more openings appear 
near the anus. Perianal fistulas are described as complex if they have multiple channels and openings, 
if they penetrate deep inside your body or if they are associated with other complications such as 
collections of pus (infected liquid also called abscesses). Perianal fistulas can cause pain, irritation and 
discharge of pus through the openings to the skin. 
Alofisel is used when the fistulas have not responded sufficiently well to previous treatment. When 
injected close to the perianal fistulas, Alofisel reduces their inflammation, increasing the likelihood of 
the fistulas healing. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Alofisel 
You must not be given Alofisel 
− 
if you are allergic to darvadstrocel, bovine serum or to any of the ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or surgeon before you are given Alofisel. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alofisel may contain traces of either gentamicin or benzylpenicillin and streptomycin (antibiotics). 
This should be considered if you are allergic to these antibiotics, as these antibiotics are used in the 
manufacturing process of this medicine. 
Alofisel is a living cell therapy and, therefore, the final product cannot be sterilised. The product is 
checked at different stages during its manufacture to ensure that it is free of infection. Because the 
final check takes place just before Alofisel is sent to the hospital, the results of this last check are not 
known when it is given to you. In the unlikely event that the results detected an infection, your 
treatment team will be informed who will tell you if you need any laboratory tests of treatment for the 
infection. If after the procedure you feel ill or have fever, please inform your physician as soon as you 
can. 
Before receiving Alofisel you will undergo the preparation of your fistulas. You may experience pain 
in the rectum or anus, and pain occurring after fistula preparation. 
After you receive Alofisel do not donate blood, organs, tissues or cells for transplants. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine should not be given to children and adolescents below 18 years of age. It is not known 
if this medicine is safe and effective when used in children and adolescents under 18 years of age. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor/surgeon for advice before you are given this medicine. Treatment with Alofisel is not 
recommended during pregnancy. Women of childbearing age should use effective contraception 
during treatment with Alofisel.  
The effect of Alofisel on breast-feeding women is not known, and it may harm your breast-fed child. 
Your doctor will help you decide whether to stop breast-feeding, or whether to stop taking Alofisel, 
considering the benefit of breast-feeding to the baby and the benefit of Alofisel to the mother.  
Driving and using machines 
Alofisel is not likely to affect your ability to drive or use tools or machines. 
3. 
How Alofisel is given 
Alofisel will always be given to you by a healthcare professional. 
You may have had an initial consultation with the Surgeon 2 to 3 weeks prior to Alofisel 
administration. The following information is related to the day when Alofisel is administered. 
Alofisel is injected by a surgeon in the fistula tract tissue.  
The recommended dose is 4 vials of 6 mL (120 × 106 cells). 
Before treatment with Alofisel, you will be given an anaesthetic.  
Once you have been anaesthetised (general or regional anaesthesia), your surgeon will: 
• 
• 
• 
prepare the fistulas with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution and remove any scar tissue. 
stitch up the inner openings of the fistulas. 
inject Alofisel. Half of the dose will be injected into the tissue around the inner openings of the 
fistulas, and half of the dose in the tissue walls along the fistulas. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
massage softly for 20 to 30 seconds the area where the fistula opens on to the skin near your 
anus. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or surgeon. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects of Alofisel treatment are related to the preparation of your fistulas. In general, these 
side effects are quite mild and disappear in the days following the fistula procedure. These side effects 
may occur up to seven days after the procedure. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 to 10 patients):  
• 
• 
• 
• 
anal abscess 
anal fistula 
proctalgia (pain in the rectum or anus). 
procedural pain (pain after fistula preparation) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or surgeon. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Alofisel 
The following information is intended for doctors only. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and the carton. 
Store between 15 °C and 25 °C.  
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Keep the medicine inside the cardboard box to protect from light and moisture, and within the 
shipping container at all times until its administration, to maintain the required temperature. 
Alofisel must not be irradiated or otherwise sterilised. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Alofisel contains 
− 
− 
The active ingredient is darvadstrocel which consists of human stem cells obtained from the fat 
tissue of a healthy adult donor that are subsequently grown (expanded) in the laboratory and 
provided at a concentration of 5 × 106 cells per millilitre in vials which each contain 
6 millilitres, i.e. 30 × 106 cells per vial. 
There are two excipients used for storage of the cells: one is a liquid called Dulbecco’s 
Modified Eagle´s Medium containing nutrients for the cells (amino acids, vitamins, salts and 
carbohydrates), and the other is human albumin, which is a natural protein found in the human 
body. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Alofisel looks like and contents of the pack 
Alofisel is a dispersion for injection. During shipment, the cells may have settled in the bottom of the 
vials forming a sediment and will need to be resuspended. After the cells have been resuspended (by 
gentle manual tapping), Alofisel is a white to yellowish homogenous dispersion. 
Alofisel is supplied on an individual patient basis. An individual dose of Alofisel comprises 4 glass 
vials each containing 6 millilitres of Alofisel contained within a cardboard box. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
TiGenix S.A.U. 
C/Marconi 1 
Parque Tecnológico de Madrid 
28760 Tres Cantos, Madrid 
Spain 
Takeda Ireland Ltd.  
Grange Castle Business Park  
Nangor Road, Dublin 22, D22 XR57  
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europe.eu. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To 
ensure traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient must 
be kept for a period of 30 years after the expiry date of the product. 
Preparation prior to administration 
Alofisel must not be filtered or administered using a needle thinner than 22G. 
Immediately before use, Alofisel must be re-suspended by gently tapping the bottom of the vial until a 
homogeneous dispersion is obtained, avoiding bubble formation. 
Administration 
Immediately prior to the administration of Alofisel, the fistula tracts should be conditioned as follows: 
a)  If setons are in place, they must be removed.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b)  Identify the location of the internal openings. For this, injection of a sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution through the external openings until it gets out through the 
internal openings is recommended. The injection of any other substance through the fistula 
tracts, such as hydrogen peroxide, methylene blue, iodine solutions or hypertonic glucose 
solutions is not allowed, as these agents compromise the viability of the cells to be injected 
(see section 4.4 and section 4.5). 
c)  Perform a vigorous curettage of all fistula tracts, with special emphasis in the internal 
openings areas, using a metallic curette. 
d)  Suture closed the internal openings.  
After conditioning of the fistula tracts, Alofisel should be administered according to the following two 
steps: 
1.  Preparation 
a)  The expiry time: date of Alofisel should be re-confirmed; vials should then be 
removed from the outer packaging. 
b)  Re-suspend the cells by gently tapping the bottom of the vials until a homogeneous 
dispersion is obtained, avoiding bubble formation. Each vial should be used 
immediately after re-suspension to prevent the cells from re-sedimenting. 
c)  Remove the cap from the vial, gently turn the vial upside down, and gently aspirate 
the whole content using a syringe with a conventional needle no thinner than 22G 
(see section 4.4).  
d)  Replace the needle with a longer needle, also no thinner than 22G, in order to reach 
the intended sites of injection. For example, a needle for spinal anaesthesia 
measuring around 90 mm in length is required. 
e)  Repeat steps (b), (c) and (d) for each of the vials in turn after the cells from one 
vial have been injected. 
2. 
Injection 
Two of the vials should be used for the internal openings and the remaining two for 
injection along the walls of the fistula tracts (via external openings). After inserting the 
needle tip into each intended injection site, perform a slight aspiration to avoid 
intravascular administration. 
a)  Injection around the internal openings of the fistula tracts: insert the needle through 
- 
- 
the anus and proceed as follows: 
If there is a single internal opening, inject the content of each of the two vials (one 
after the other) in small deposits into the tissue surrounding the single internal 
opening. 
If there are two internal openings, inject the content of the first of two vials in 
small deposits into the tissue around one internal opening. Then inject the content 
of the second vial in small deposits into the tissue around the second internal 
opening.  
b)  Injection along the walls of the fistula tracts: insert the needle through the external 
- 
- 
openings and, from within the fistula lumen: 
If there is a single external opening, inject separately the content of each of the 
remaining two vials superficially into the tissue walls along the length of the fistula 
tracts, making small deposits of the cell dispersion.  
If there are two or three external openings, inject the content of the remaining two 
vials equally between the associated tracts.  
The procedure for injection along the walls of the fistula tracts should be 
performed based on prior knowledge of the anatomy and topology of the fistula 
tracts, as determined during the fistula characterisation. Ensure cells are not 
injected into the lumen of the fistula tracts to avoid leakage of cells.  
Softly massage the area around the external openings for 20–30 seconds and cover the external 
openings with a sterile bandage.  
24 
 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Alofisel (solid and liquid 
waste) must be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
25 
 
 
