23 March 2018 
EMA/92608/2018  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Alofisel (Expanded human allogeneic mesenchymal adult stem cells extracted 
from adipose tissue) 
Treatment of anal fistula  
EU/3/09/667 (EMA/OD/054/09) 
Sponsor: TiGenix S.A.U. 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage .......................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP final position on review of criteria for orphan designation adopted 
on 18 January 2018 ..................................................................................... 9 
Appendix 1 ................................................................................................ 10 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
Expanded human allogeneic mesenchymal adult stem 
cells extracted from adipose tissue 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Darvadstrocel 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of anal fistula 
Suspension for injection 
Intralesional injection 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
L04 
Sponsor’s details: 
TiGenix S.A.U. 
Marconi 1, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid 
Tres Cantos 
28760 Madrid 
Spain 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Post-designation procedural history 
Cellerix S.A. 
8 July 2009 
8 October 2009 
EU/3/09/667 
Sponsor’s name change  
Name changed from Cellerix S.A. to TiGenix S.A.U - EC 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
L. Åkerblom, M. Menezes-Ferreira 
letter of 4 February 2003 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
TiGenix S.A.U. 
2 March 2016 
24 March 2016 
EMA/H/C/004258 
Alofisel 
Alofisel is indicated for the treatment of complex 
perianal fistulas in adult patients with non-
active/mildly active luminal Crohn’s disease, when 
fistulas have shown an inadequate response to at least 
one conventional or biologic therapy. Alofisel should be 
used after conditioning of fistula. 
Further information on Alofisel can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. 
CHMP opinion date 
14 December 2017 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
A. Magrelli / V. Stoyanova 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
13 April 2016, update 10 May 2016 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
17-19 January 2017   
questions  
Oral explanation  
5 December 2017  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
 
COMP negative opinion date 
20 December 2017 
Appeal to the COMP opinion procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
Appeal submission date  
Appeal oral explanation 
Final positive COMP opinion  
E. Malikova / I. Wang 
9 January 2018  
16 January 2018 
18 January 2018  
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2009 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
anal fistula (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting approximately  
2.3 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due in particular to incontinence and sepsis aggravated as a 
result of surgical intervention; 
there is, at present, no satisfactory treatment that has been authorised in the Community for 
patients affected by the condition. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Fistulas are abnormal (non-anatomical) connections or passageways between organs or vessels that 
normally do not connect. The anal fistula is located between the anal canal and the skin surface near 
the anus. Fistulas can be classified as either “simple” or “complex.” A simple fistula is low (superficial 
or low intersphincteric or low transsphincteric fistula tract), has a single external opening, has no pain 
or fluctuation to suggest perianal abscess, has no evidence of a rectovaginal fistula, and has no 
evidence of anorectal stricture.  
The approved therapeutic indication “Alofisel is indicated for the treatment of complex perianal fistulas 
in adult patients with non-active/mildly active luminal Crohn’s disease, when fistulas have shown an 
inadequate response to at least one conventional or biologic therapy. Alofisel should be used after 
conditioning of fistula’ falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication “treatment of anal 
fistula”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition has been justified.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The condition is not life threatening; nevertheless, an appropriate discussion was given by the sponsor 
demonstrating that the condition remains chronically debilitating at the time of review. The sponsor 
adequately justified that the condition is chronically debilitating due to pain and itching, local or 
systemic infection, perianal swelling, fever in case of abscess formation, and drainage of pus, stool or 
blood from cutaneous fistula openings leading to social, sexual and employment restrictions. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor performed a systematic literature search to identify epidemiological literature for anal 
fistulas in Crohn’s disease, cryptoglandular fistulas, and other potential causes of anal fistula, including 
anal fistula due to infections, trauma, cancer, radiotherapy and congenital malformations. The 
literature searches were performed in PubMed, with additional systematic reviews retrieved from 
PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Databases. In addition the sponsor performed a study by querying a 
large UK population-based database, The Health Improvement Network (THIN), reporting data on 
fistulas from all causes. 
It is estimated that cryptoglandular fistulas and fistulas in Crohn’s disease account for 95 - 98% of all 
anal fistulas, while fistulas due to, trauma, cancer, radiotherapy and congenital malformations are 
extremely uncommon. Very limited knowledge about the epidemiology of these types of fistulas exists, 
and what is available usually comes from case reports or case series. Based on the available sources, 
the sponsor estimated the prevalence of cancer-related, congenital, traumatic and radiation-induced 
anal fistulas, to be approximately 0.062 in 10,000 in the EU. Taking into account the limited 
information available, this estimate appears sufficiently conservative.  
Infection-related anal fistulas were reported in the figures of cryptoglandular fistulas, since most of 
them arise as a result of cryptoglandular infection with resultant perirectal abscess. Cryptoglandular 
anal fistula has been estimated by the sponsor to have an incidence of 0.86 in 10,000 in the EU, based 
on a paper from Sainio et al from 1984 that represents the only population-based study currently 
available. More recently (Ommer A, 2011) the German guidelines for this disease estimate the 
incidence at 2 in 10,000 per year, based on an article from 2007 (Zanotti et al). However, the article 
from Zanotti discusses the incidence of anal fistula as a whole and not specifically for cryptoglandular 
fistulas, and it is based on studies from reference centres from 4 European countries, while no 
population-based data appear to have been collected in Europe specifically on cryptoglandular fistulas 
after the study of Sainio et al. It is therefore reasonable to accept that the annual prevalence of 
cryptoglandular fistulas is likely not above 1 in 10,000. 
The prevalence of anal fistula in Crohn’s disease was calculated by the sponsor on 27 studies, of which 
6 were considered particularly relevant after critical appraisal of more than 300 literature sources.  The 
selected studies included: the SEESG-CD (1999) study, a large survey of gastroenterologists, and a 
recent paper from Göttgens et al. (2017) with data collected from a population-based Inflammatory 
Bowel Disease South-Limburg cohort in the Netherlands. In this study the cumulative 5-year perianal 
fistula rate was 14.1% in the 1991-1998, 10.4% in the 1999-2005, and 10.3% in the 2006-2011. 
These are cumulative incidence data, i.e. they refer to the number of patients with Crohn’s disease 
who would develop a fistula within 5 years. The number of patients that have the disease at a specific 
point in time in this period (e.g. annual prevalence or a 2-year period prevalence) may however be 
lower, since the average duration of disease is shorter than 5 years. The prevalence of Crohn’s disease 
in the EU is extremely variable, from 1.5 to 213 cases per 100,000 persons in different countries, with 
an average of 71.2 in 100,000 (calculated from Burish et al, 2013, reporting data from the ECCO 
consortium from 19 studies covering most of the EU), equal to 7.1 in 10,000. Considering the 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
cumulative incidence most recent data described by Gottgens et al in the Limburg cohort, that would 
mean that less than 1 of 10,000 people with Crohn’s are affected by anal fistula over a 5-year period.  
A recent (2017) query from the sponsor of The Health Improvement Network (THIN), a large UK 
population-based database, reported an annual prevalence of anal fistula (from all causes) in the UK 
population of 1.66 in 10,000.  
A sensitivity analysis performed by the sponsor based on an estimated average prevalence of anal 
fistula of 1.69 in 10,000 in the EU resulted in a worst case scenario of 3.47 in 10,000, which was 
considered by the COMP as a sufficiently conservative estimate of the prevalence of anal fistula in the 
EU taking into account the variability of the data across member states, and the uncertainty about the 
potential number of asymptomatic fistulas that are not captured by studies and databases. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The anti-TNFα medicinal product infliximab has a centralized authorization in the European Union. 
Infliximab is indicated for the treatment of fistulising, active Crohn's disease, in adult patients who 
have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment 
(including antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). Infliximab is a systemic therapy and 
is recommended for the second line treatment of induction and maintenance of fistula closure in 
European and in other international guidelines. Antibiotics are also used in case of abscess formation 
and fistulas that become secondarily infected.  
In addition, a number of surgical techniques exist for the treatment of anal fistula. However, different 
techniques apply to different type of fistulas (e.g. simple vs. complex and etiology) and to different 
stages. Minimally invasive techniques, such as fibrin glue and fistula plug, have demonstrated 
inconsistent results and their use is limited. Other approaches, including mucosal advancement flap 
(MAF), ligation of the inter-sphincteric fistula tract (LIFT), and proctectomy with a permanent stoma, 
are usually applied to patients who did not respond to pharmacological treatments and, in the case of 
proctectomy they are reserved to the most severe cases. 
Alofisel is intended for the treatment of complex anal fistula. A complex anal fistula is characterised as 
having an origin above the dentate line, to have multiple external openings or are associated with the 
presence of perianal abscess, or of a rectovaginal fistulas.. Based on the therapeutic indication 
received by the CHMP its position in the treatment algorithm of anal fistula in Crohn’s is foreseen after 
patients have failed at least one conventional or biologic therapy. This includes antibiotics, 
immunosuppressive therapy (conventional therapy) or anti-TNFα treatment (biologic therapy). 
Minimally invasive surgery, such as setons, is often used at the same time as pharmacological 
treatment, while more invasive surgical techniques are usually applied at later stage. 
Significant benefit 
Regarding significant benefit, the sponsor discussed the current management algorithms of complex 
fistulas, in general and applicable also to Crohn’s disease, including pharmacological and surgical 
management.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
In relation to surgery, a number of different procedures are available for this condition as described 
above. The heterogeneity of surgical approaches and the lack of conclusive data on the relative efficacy 
of each technique results in a case by case use of surgery, with surgeons making decisions on a 
specific technique based on a number of factors including, besides the complexity of the fistula, the 
degree of preservation of the surrounding tissue. For all these reasons a formal comparison of Alofisel 
with surgery is not appropriate for the demonstration of significant benefit since surgery will usually be 
performed in patients who do not respond to pharmacological treatment (including also Alofisel). In 
addition, Alofisel is administered at the same time as fistula conditioning, i.e. after abscess drainage 
and application of setons, therefore the effects demonstrated in the Alofisel pivotal trial are on top of 
these interventions. Furthermore, current guidelines point to a lack of consensus on which surgical 
technique would be preferable for later stages, and the effectiveness of some of the surgical 
techniques is controversial. Therefore the COMP was of the opinion that surgery was not to be 
considered a treatment to which Alofisel had to be compared in the context of the demonstration of 
significant benefit. 
The significant benefit in relation to infliximab was discussed mainly based on the clinical data from the 
pivotal trial of Alofisel, the ADMIRE-CD study, in which a number of patients were enrolled who had 
been refractory to previous treatment with infliximab. ADMIRE-CD was a phase III, randomised, 
double blind, parallel group, placebo controlled, multicentre study spanning over a period of 24 weeks 
and an extended follow-up period up to 104 weeks. The primary endpoint was combined remission at 
week 24. Seventy-four out of the 107 patients treated with Alofisel in the study were refractory to 
treatment with anti-TNFα. This included a significant number of patients treated with infliximab. The 
clinical data showed that Alofisel treatment offered a 15.9 per cent points difference statistically 
significant (p= 0.030) improvement in combined remission at 52 weeks in TNFα refractory patients 
compared to the group of refractory patients treated with placebo, as shown in the table below. The 
patients refractory to anti-TNFα in the placebo group were 71/105.  
Source: Case Study Report ADMIRE-CD study 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
These data were considered relevant for the demonstration of the significant benefit of Alofisel versus 
anti-TNFα treatment because in previous studies, e.g. the ACCENT II trial of infliximab, no response to 
infliximab induction treatment was achieved in approximately one third of the patient population and, 
amongst responders, a fraction lost response over the time. This, and the results presented by the 
sponsor in terms of response rate, define a medically plausible population and identify a relevant 
percentage of patients refractory to anti-TNFα who would benefit from treatment with Alofisel. This 
constitutes a significant benefit for the patients affected by anal fistula. 
In relation to relative efficacy, an indirect comparison between the ADMIRE-CD study and ACCENT II, 
the pivotal trial of infliximab would be very difficult to perform, as the two studies were conducted 
several years apart, and have different endpoints. In addition the ACCENT II study of infliximab had a 
very different design, with administration of the product before randomization, at 0, 2, and 6 weeks, 
and then identification of the responders. Treatment was continued up to 54 weeks. At week 14, those 
with a response were randomly assigned to receive an infusion of either placebo (placebo 
maintenance) or 5 mg of infliximab per kilogram (infliximab maintenance) at weeks 14, 22, 30, 38, 
and 46 and were followed until week 54. The sponsor presented data showing a longer sustained 
response rate with Alofisel than with infliximab, with the overall patient population and the refractory 
patient population treated with Alofisel still in remission at 52 weeks, while only 23% of patients 
treated with infliximab in the ACCENT II trial were still in remission at 54 weeks. The COMP considered 
this data promising but did not consider the data confirmative enough to base a significant benefit 
decision upon, due to the differences in the study populations of the ADMIRE-CD and the ACCENT-II 
study.  
Similarly, the potential major contribution to patient care linked to one single administration of Alofisel 
vs. multiple infusions (every 6-8 weeks) of infliximab was considered important, but more long term 
efficacy data on the two products would be needed for considering this as a robust ground of 
significant benefit.  
The COMP adopted a positive opinion by a majority of 23 members, based on a clinically relevant 
advantage in the population of patients that do not respond to anti-TNFα treatment. Five COMP 
members signed a divergent position on the conclusion of the COMP on prevalence and significant 
benefit. The divergent position is appended to this report. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
4.  COMP final position on review of criteria for orphan 
designation adopted on 18 January 2018  
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls within the scope of the orphan indication of the designated 
Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of anal fistula (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) is estimated to remain 
below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be less than 3.47 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to pain and itching, recurring local infection and abscess 
formation, perianal swelling, stool or blood from cutaneous fistula openings leading to social, 
sexual and employment restrictions and severely compromised quality of life; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Alofisel will be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the 
orphan condition is confirmed. This is based on clinical data from the phase 3 randomized placebo-
controlled clinical trial showing significant clinical efficacy in patients that were refractory to 
treatment with anti-TNFα medicinal products, currently authorized for the condition.   
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products recommends that Alofisel, darvadstrocel, EU/3/09/667 
for treatment of anal fistula is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan Medicinal 
Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
Divergent position expressed by some members of the COMP 
A divergent opinion was declared by five members. The following was considered as grounds for the 
divergent opinion: 
• 
Insufficient evidence has been presented to conclude that the prevalence of anal fistula 
(hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) remains below 5 in 10,000 at the time of the review of 
the designation criteria. The sponsor presented a prevalence calculation that assumed a prevalence 
of 3.47 in 10,000 persons in the European Union. The sponsor’s methodology did not include all 
possible sources of evidence on the prevalence of anal fistula of all potential aetiologies. In 
addition, the assumption that a maximum of 14.7% of Crohn’s disease patients develop anal 
fistulas was not sufficiently substantiated, because there is scientific literature suggesting higher 
figures. 
• 
The significant benefit over existing treatment options is insufficiently substantiated to justify the 
maintenance of the orphan designation, as per the presented clinical data. The clinical data showed 
that Alofisel treatment offered a 15.2% improvement in combined remission versus placebo in 
refractory patients, which is considered of questionable clinical relevance to support significant 
benefit. In addition the observed improvement in combined remission did not lead to 
improvements in quality of life of patients as measured by secondary endpoints. The clinical trial 
design and the overall outcome therefore did not allow the quantifying of the clinically relevant 
advantage relative to the best standard of care including surgical procedures and authorised anti-
TNFα treatment with infliximab. Indirect comparisons of efficacy versus infliximab were attempted 
but not considered methodologically valid, due to differences in proportion of patients with 
conditioning. The sponsor therefore failed to establish that Alofisel is of significant benefit to the 
patients of the orphan condition as defined in the granted therapeutic indication.  
Kateřina Kopečková (Czech Republic) 
Armando Magrelli (Italy)  
Daniel O’Connor (United Kingdom) 
Violeta Stoyanova-Beninska (Netherlands) 
Kerstin Westermark (European Commission Nominated) 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/92608/2018 
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
