SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Aloxi contains palonosetron, a 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) type 3 receptor antagonist, as active 
substance.  With  the  present  application,  the  applicant  sought  a  marketing  authorisation  in  the 
following indication:  
-  
“the  prevention  of  acute  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with  initial  and  repeat  course  of 
moderately and highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy and 
the  prevention  of  delayed  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with  initial  and  repeat  courses  of 
moderately emetogenic chemotherapy.” 
-  
Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) 
CINV can be broadly categorised as acute, when nausea and vomiting occur within 24 hours after the 
start of chemotherapy [1], delayed, if CINV persist for 6 to 7 days after therapy [2, 3], or anticipatory, 
if  CINV  occur  prior  to  chemotherapy  administration  [2,  4].  Chemotherapy  agents  have  a  highly 
variable emetogenic potential and can be classified according to their emetogenic level as agents with 
low,  intermediate  and  high  emetogenic  risk.  CINV  remains  a  significant  side  effect  experienced  by 
cancer  patients  especially  when  treated  with  highly  emetogenic  regimens.  It  can  impair  patient’s 
quality of life and in case it becomes serious, dehydration, malnutrition, metabolic disturbances, and 
aspiration  pneumonia  may  occur.  As  a  consequence,  control  of  nausea  and  vomiting  plays  an 
important part in the overall treatment success for cancer patients.  
The  precise  mechanisms  by  which  chemotherapy  induces  nausea  and  vomiting  are  unknown. 
However,  it  appears  probable  that  different  chemotherapeutic  agents  act  at  different  sites  and  that 
some chemotherapeutic agents act at multiple sites [5]. The mechanisms by which chemotherapeutic 
agents  cause  nausea  and  vomiting  are  activation  of  the  chemoreceptor  trigger  zone  (CTZ)  either 
directly  or  indirectly,  peripheral  stimulation  of  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  vestibular  mechanisms,  
cortical  mechanisms,  or  alterations  of  taste  and  smell  [6].  For  the  majority  of  the  chemotherapeutic 
agents, the most common mechanism is thought to be activation of the CTZ. The CTZ is located in the 
area postrema of the  brain and  can  be  reached  via  the cerebrospinal fluid  or the blood.  Some of the 
neurotransmitters  located  in  the  area  postrema  of  the  brain  that  may  be  exited  and  lead  to  emesis 
include  dopamine,  serotonine,  histamine,  norepinephrine,  apomorphine,  neurotensin,  angiotensin  II, 
leucine 
vasoactive 
enkephalin and substance P [7].  
intestinal  polypeptide,  gastrin,  vasopressin, 
thyrotopin-releasing  hormone, 
5-HT3 receptor antagonists 
(5-HT) 
that  5-hydroxytryptamine 
receptors  are  particularly 
the 
It  appears 
pathophysiology of acute  vomiting  [6].  Delayed  emesis is observed in as  many as 80 % of  patients, 
typically  occurring  24  to  72  hours  after  high  total  doses  of  cisplatin  (>100  mg/m2)  have  been 
administered.  To  date,  the  pathophysiology  of  delayed  emesis  remains  unclear  [8].  The  precise 
mechanism  of  action  of  the  5-HT-receptor  antagonists  is  unknown;  however,  they  may  have  both  a 
central  and  a  peripheral  effect.  The  gastrointestinal  tract  contains  80  %  of  the  body’s  supply  of 
serotonin. During chemotherapy, enterochromaffin cells that line the gastrointestinal tract are damaged 
resulting  in  the  release  of  serotonin.  Serotonin  stimulates  vagal  afferent  neurons  that  activates  the 
vomiting center or directly activate the chemotherapy trigger zone.  
important 
in 
A multitude of 5-HT-receptor subtypes have been cloned to date [9], which are expressed in distinct 
but  often  overlapping  patterns  [10].  Four  5-HT-receptors  families  with  defined  functions,  5-HT1 
through 5-HT4, currently are recognized. The 5-HT1-2 and 5-HT4-7 receptor families are members of the 
superfamiliy  of  G  protein-coupled  receptors  with  a  predicted  membrane  topology  composed  of  an 
extracellular  N-terminal  segment  linked  to  an  intracellular  C  terminus  by  seven  transmembrane-
spanning  segments.  The  5-HT3  receptor,  on  the  other  hand,  is  a  ligand-gated  ion  channel  that  gates 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Na+ and K+ and has a predicted membrane topology akin to that of the nicotinic cholinergic receptor 
[9].  
5-HT3 inhibitors block serotonin receptors and subsequently the neuronal cascade of events leading to 
nausea and vomiting is in effect blunted or blocked from further activation. Studies have shown that 
the  5-HT3  receptor  antagonists  decrease  emesis  from  several  chemotherapeutic  agents,  including 
cisplatin, cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin [11-14]. 
The goal of antiemetic therapy is to prevent nausea and vomiting completely. Metoclopramide, blocks 
emesis via the 5-HT3 pathway at higher doses [15]. However, metoclopramide is not selective for the 
5-HT3  pathway,  and  development  of  highly  selective  antagonists  of  the  5-HT3  receptor  allowed  for 
good antiemetic effect with a lower side effect profile [6]. In addition to 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, 
substances  used  in  the  treatment  of  CINV  include  mainly  steroids  and  dopamine  D2  antagonists. 
Recently, a new antiemetic agent, aprepitant (an antagonist of the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors), has 
been centrally authorised for the prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with 
initial and repeated courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including high-dose cisplatin, 
in combination with other antiemetic agents. 
5-HT3  receptor  antagonists  used  as  antiemetic  therapies  available  in  some  European  countires           
include  ondansetron,  granisetron,  tropisetron  and  dolasetron.  Since  their  introduction,  these  agents 
have  become  the  standard  antiemetic  agents  for  control  of  CINV  and  continue  to  provide  effective 
management  of  nausea  and  vomiting  with  rarely  requiring  discontinuation  of  therapy.  They  are  not 
superior  to  metoclopramide  and  are  therefore  not  approved  for  use  in  the  delayed  phase  by  many 
authorities. 
Palonosetron hydrochloride 
Palonosetron  hydrochloride  (palonosetron,  also  referred  to  during  the  development  as  08-PALO  or 
RS-25259-197,  Onicit,  which  has  been  the  brand  name  used  in  the  EU  pre-authorisation  until  13 
December 2004, or Aloxi, which is the official brand name in the EU and in the US), is a novel and 
selective  serotonin  receptor  subtype  3  (5-HT3)  antagonist.  It  has  little  or  no  affinity  for  other 
bioreceptors, including other serotonergic receptors (5-HT1, 5-HT2 and 5-HT4).   
Syntex  Laboratories  -  USA  was  the  original  innovator  and  carried  out  the  studies  corresponding  to 
Phase I and II. Syntex licensed palonosetron to Helsinn and completed the development of the product 
carrying out the Phase III studies and Phase I in special populations. 
This  application  concerns  a  complete  application  concerning  a  new  active  substance  according  to 
article 8.3 (i) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Aloxi  is  presented  as  a  solution  for  injection  containing  250  micrograms  of  palonosetron  (as 
hydrochloride). 
The  other  ingredients  include  mannitol,  disodium  edetate,  sodium  citrate,  citric  acid  monohydrate, 
water for injections, hydrochloric acid solution and sodium hydroxide solution. 
Aloxi  is  packed  in  type  I  clear  glass  vial  closed  with  chlorobutyl  siliconised  rubber  stopper  and  an 
aluminium flip-off seal. 
2.1  Active substance 
Palonosetron  is  a  new  5-hydroxytryptamine  type  3  receptor  antagonist.  Detailed  information  on 
quality/control of materials used in the synthesis, as well as on the synthesis itself, has been provided 
by the way of an active substance master file (ASMF or “EDMF”). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Palonosetron is a white to off-white crystalline powder, which is freely soluble in water. It contains 2 
chiral centres, but it is synthesised solely as the (S,S) enantiomer. No racemisation has been observed 
during  the  synthesis  process  or  under  stress  conditions.  Two  crystalline  forms  (I  and  II)  and  an 
amorphous form have been identified. The crystalline form I is produced by the commercial synthesis 
process. Solubility studies with form II have demonstrated that in aqueous medium it readily converts 
into polymorph form I, which is freely soluble in water. 
Stress  stability  studies  have  shown  that  the  main  degradation  pathway  for  palonosetron  in  aqueous 
solution  is  oxidation,  which  increases  with  the  active  substance  concentration.  In  solid-state, 
palonosetron is not hygroscopic at or below 82% R.H. 
• 
Manufacture 
Palonosetron  is  synthesised  using  a  five-step  process,  three  involve  chemical  reactions  and  two 
correspond  to  purification/recrystallisation.  The  starting  materials  are  commercially  available.  The 
commercial  synthesis  process  results  of  optimisation  of  an  earlier  development  process.  Both  have 
been used to produce batches used in non-clinical/clinical studies. 
Satisfactory specifications and associated methods have been provided for the starting materials, key 
intermediates, reagents and solvents in the ASMF Restricted part. 
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identity (IR and UV), assay (reverse 
phase  HPLC  achiral),  chloride  content,  optical  rotation  (PhEur),  impurities  (chiral  HPLC),  residual 
solvents  (GC),  heavy  metals  (PhEur),  sulphated  ash  (PhEur),  bioburden  (PhEur),  mould  and  yeast 
count  (PhEur),  bacterial  endotoxins  (PhEur),  loss  on  drying  (PhEur),  pH  of  solution  (PhEur),  and 
clarity of solution (PhEur). 
The formation of the desired enantiomer of palonosetron is ensured by controlling enantiomeric purity 
of  the  starting  materials  and  of  the  intermediates.  In  addition,  an  optical  rotation  test  is  part  of  the 
specification and a chiral HPLC method is used to control impurities. 
Batch analysis data provided for lots manufactured according to the commercial synthesis process at 2 
different  sites,  including  the  commercial  synthesis  site,  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  and 
uniformity with the proposed specifications.  
In addition, analytical results of all relevant batches used in non-clinical and clinical testing have been 
provided in order to guaranty the qualification of the impurities at the level proposed.  No significant 
differences between lots obtained by the 2 synthesis processes have been noted, especially in terms of 
impurity profile. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  batches.  Under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH  - 
commercial  packaging)  and  long-term  conditions  (25°C/60%%  RH  -  commercial  packaging), 
respectively 6-month and 2-year data have been provided. The photostability study performed did not 
show any significant change in the main stability indicating parameters.  
A  retest  period  of  2  years  is  supported  by  the  presented  data  when  palonosetron  is  stored  in  double 
low-density polyethylene (LDPE) stored in HPDE drums.  
2.2  Medicinal product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
During  development  studies,  palonosetron  showed  instability  in  aqueous  solution  directly  related  to 
the  product  strength  (see  active  substance),  which  appeared  to  be  the  most  critical  parameter  in  the 
product’s performance. As a consequence, a low concentration of palonosetron (i.e. 0.05 mg/ml) has 
been selected while maintaining the required clinical dose and a low injectable volume (5ml). 
Palonosetron being freely soluble in water, water for injections is used as vehicle. The pH selected for 
the  commercial  formulation  ensures  optimal  stability  of  palonosetron  and  it  is  maintained  over  the 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shelf life of the product by a citrate buffer system. Mannitol has been chosen over sodium chloride as 
an isotonicity agent based on superior stability of the mannitol-containing product. Palonosetron being 
sensitive to oxidation, a chelating agent (i.e. disodium edetate) is included in the formulation. All the 
excipients are of PhEur quality. 
The type I glass vials and the butyl rubber stopper used as primary packaging material meet the PhEur 
requirements  and  satisfactory  specifications  are  used  to  control  the  dimethicone  used  to  treat  the 
stoppers. A study has been carried out to determine the compatibility of the product with the container 
closure  system,  which  is  suitable  for  terminal  sterilisation.  A  development  study  has  evaluated 
potential extractables from the stopper.  
Regarding the TSE risk, Aloxi does not contain any component of ruminant origin. 
Tow  different  formulations  were  used  in  clinical  trials.  Phase  I  and  II  clinical  trials  used  mostly  a 
formulation based on a  phosphate buffer, and  containing sodium  chloride as tonicity adjuster but no 
disodium edetate.  The commercial formulation was used in all phase III studies.  
Both formulations were administered as aqueous solutions by intravenous (i.v.) bolus over 30 seconds. 
The bioequivalence of these 2 formulations is therefore self-evident and a bioequivalence study was 
considered not necessary. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard process comprising the following operations: dissolution of 
the  active  ingredient  and  excipients  in  water  for  injections,  pH  adjustment,  sterile  filtration,  aseptic 
filling,  stoppering  and  terminal  sterilisation.  In  order  to  minimise  any  potential  degradation  of 
palonosetron  by  oxidation,  the  water  for  injections  is  continuously  sparged  with  nitrogen  during  the 
dissolution  step  and  a  nitrogen  blanket  is  maintained  over  the  vessel.  In-process  controls  and 
corresponding specification have been adequately defined where appropriate at each stage. 
Satisfactory  validation  data  have  been  provided.  The  conditions  of  the  terminal  sterilisation  comply 
with the PhEur requirements and have been validated.  
• 
Product Specification 
The finished product specification include tests for appearance (PhEur), container appearance, volume 
in container (PhEur), identity (HPLC Rt and HPLC UV), assay (HPLC), impurities (chiral HPLC and 
non-chiral HPLC), pH (PhEur), sterility (PhEur), bacterial endotoxins (PhEur), container integrity and 
particulate matter. 
Batch  analysis  data  for  5  pilot-scale  batches  (3  manufactured  at  the  commercial  site  and  2 
manufactured at a development site), have been provided, comply with the specifications and indicate 
consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  primary  stability  batches.  Under  accelerated  conditions 
(40°C/75%  RH  –  commercial  packaging  –  stored  in  upright  and  inverted  position)  and  long-term 
conditions  (25°C/60%  RH    -  commercial  packaging  –  stored  in  upright  and  inverted  position), 
respectively  6-month  and  30-month  data  have  been  provided.  A  photostability  study  has  been 
performed.  It  showed  that  the  product  is  light  sensitive  and  that  the  carton  used  as  secondary 
packaging provides adequate protection from light. 
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate taking into account the properties and the stability of the active substance. The excipients are 
commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing process enhances to obtain reproducible finished product batches. Stability tests under 
ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the time of the CHMP opinion there was a minor unresolved quality issue which had no impact on 
the benefit/risk profile. The applicant committed to provide the necessary information as a follow-up 
measure within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The pivotal toxicology studies were performed in compliance with Good Laboratory Practice, which 
was  not  the  case  for  most  of  the  pharmacology,  metabolism,  dose  range  finding  studies  nor  for  the 
pilot immunohistochemical study PALO-02-06.   
Non-clinical studies were conducted in vitro, and in rats, guinea pigs, cats, ferrets, dogs, and monkeys. 
Although  the  proposed  indication  for  palonosetron  was  for  short-term  intravenous  use  only,  the 
toxicological  development  has 
toxicology,  oral 
included  chronic  repeat  dose 
carcinogenicity  testing,  and  reproductive  toxicity  studies.  Juvenile  toxicity  studies  have  also  been 
performed in rats and dogs. 
No formal scientific advice was given by the CHMP on the non-clinical aspects for this application. 
intravenous 
Pharmacology  
•  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
In vitro studies 
- 5-HT3 receptor binding  
Three in vitro studies were performed to investigate the bioreceptor binding profile of palonosetron. 
The  first  in  vitro  study  was  carried  out  to  assess  the  ability  of  palonosetron  to  inhibit  binding  of 
radioligands  to  5-HT receptors  as  well  as 23  additional  mammalian  bioreceptors.  The results of this 
series of binding assays revealed that palonosetron possesses a strong and highly selective affinity for 
the 5-HT3 receptor (pKi = 10.4 and pKi ≤ 5.9, for 5-HT3 and for other bioreceptors, respectively). 
A  second  in  vitro  study  was  conducted  to  assess  the  in  vitro  saturation,  competition  and  binding 
kinetic  analysis  of  [3H]-palonosetron.  The  affinity  of  [3H]-palonosetron  was  generally  10  to  20  fold 
higher than [3H]-granisetron.  
The  last  in  vitro  study  was  carried  out  to  analyse  the  distribution  of  palonosetron  binding  sites  in 
mouse and rat brain exposed to [3H]-palonosetron. The quantitative autoradiographic analysis revealed 
a high level of radiolabelled ligand binding in anatomical areas known to contain 5-HT3 receptors and 
to be associated with antiemetic action of other 5-HT3 antagonist. 
- 5-HT3 receptor activity 
The assessment of the activity of palonosetron at 5-HT3 receptors was tested on isolated guinea pigs 
ileal strips. Palonosetron acted as an insurmountable 5-HT3 antagonist with apparent affinity (-log KB) 
of 8.4 - 8.9. When tested for activity at the 5-HT1, 5-HT2 and 5-HT4 receptors, palonosetron at a 1000 
fold higher concentration than used in the 5-HT3 receptor assay did not shown any effect. 
- Activity of Metabolites M4 and M9 at 5-HT3 receptor 
A study has been performed to assess any possible antagonistic activity of M4 (0.3-30µM) and M9 (1-
100µM), two main metabolites found in humans (see clinical pharmacokinetics), at 5-HT3 receptors in 
isolated guinea pig ileum. In comparison to palonosetron (0.003-0.3µM), the two metabolites M9 and 
M4 demonstrated at least a 100-fold lower antagonistic activity at the 5-HT3 receptor.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vivo studies 
- Effect on the bradycardic response to 2-methyl-5 hydroxytryptamine (2-methyl-5-HT) 
A  bolus  intravenous  injection  of  serotonin  to  anaesthetised  rats  induces  a  vagally-mediated  reflex 
bradycardia (von Bezold-Jarisch reflex).  When induced by 2-methyl-5-HT, this reflex is specifically 
mediated by 5-HT3 receptors and can be blocked by 5-HT3 antagonists.  Palonosetron was evaluated 
for  its  ability  to  inhibit  this  reflex  in  rats  and  cats  following  intravenous,  intraduodenal  or  dermal 
administration.   
Palonosetron-dosed  animals  were  administered  intravenously  a  dose  of  2-methyl-5-HT  that  reduced 
heart rate by approximately 200 beats/minute (usually 10–80 µg/kg, i.v. in rats).  The cumulative dose 
of the 5-HT3 antagonist causing a 50% inhibition of bradycardia was 0.02µg/kg.  
The  intravenous  administration  of  single  doses  of  palonosetron  (0.01–10  µg/kg)  produced  a  dose-
related inhibition of 2-methyl-5-HT-induced bradycardia in rats. The duration of the inhibition was also 
dose-related.  At  0.1  µg/kg  palonosetron  inhibited  the  induced  bradycardia  by  83%  whereas 
administration of 1 or 10 µg/kg caused complete inhibition [16]. 
- Antiemetic effect 
The antiemetic effect of intravenously and orally administered palonosetron was assessed in male and 
female  dogs  and  in  male  ferrets,  challenged  with  intravenous  injections  of  antineoplastic  agents. 
Antineoplastic agents employed in these experiments included cisplatin (3 mg/kg in dogs, 10mg/kg in 
ferrets),  dacarbazine  (30  mg/kg  in  dogs),  mechlorethamine  (0.4  mg/kg  in  dogs)  and  actinomycin  D 
(0.15  mg/kg  in  dogs)  [16].  In  addition,  non-chemotherapeutic  emetic  trials  with  apomorphine  and 
copper sulphate were performed in dogs.  
In dog, palonosetron (0.3-100 µg/kg, i.v. and 1-100 µg/kg , p.o), ondansetron (3-300 µg/kg, i.v. and 
10-100  µg/kg,  p.o)  or  vehicle  were  administered  2  hours  prior  to  the  injection  of  the  antineoplastic 
agent  and  animals  were  observed  for  five  hours.  Both  palonosetron  and  ondansetron  reduced  the 
emetic responses to all three antineoplastic agents. The antiemetic effects of both drugs were generally 
dose-related  and  when  administered  orally,  palonosetron  was  about  30-fold  more  potent  than 
ondansetron against each of the emtogenic agents in this animal model.  
Another study was carried out in dogs who received intravenous doses of palonosetron, ondansetron or 
granisetron (0.1, 0.15, or 0.04 mg/kg respectively), or vehicle control 12, 10, 8, 6, 4, 2 and 1 hour prior 
to the intravenous injection of 3.0 mg/kg of cisplatin. Palonosetron showed some antiemetic activity 
when administered as long as 10 hours before the injection of cisplatin (9.83 emetic episodes versus 
13.83 and 23 for ondansetron and granisetron respectively), but did not protect when administered 12 
hours before cisplatin.  
In  a  further  study,  palonosetron  and  ondansetron  were  assessed  for  their  relative  abilities  to  reverse 
cisplatin-induced  emesis.  In these  experiments  dogs  received intravenous injections of  palonosetron, 
ondansetron  or  vehicle  one  hour  after  the  intravenous  administration  of  3.0  mg/kg  cisplatin.  Each 
animal  was  observed  continuously  for  five  hours  following  cisplatin  administration  to  evaluate  the 
number of emetic episodes. Palonosetron was more potent than ondansetron. 
An experiment was conducted to study the relationship between plasma concentration of palonosetron 
and  protection  of  dogs  against  cisplatin-induced  emesis.  Groups  of  dogs  received  oral  doses  of 
palonosetron  (0,  100,  316,  or  1000  µg/kg)  or  vehicle  control  30  minutes  prior  to  the  injection  of 
cisplatin.  Plasma  concentrations  of  palonosetron  were  determined  by  an  HPLC-radioimmunoassay 
method  at  0,  0.25,  0.5,  1,  2,  4,  8,  24,  and  48  hours  after  the  administration  of  palonosetron  and 
systemic exposure  was expressed as AUC(0-4  hr).  Systemic  exposure to palonosetron, as estimated  by 
computed AUC(0-4hr) values, were approximately dose-proportional over the range studied. However, a 
relationship between systemic exposure and magnitude of antiemetic effect could not be demonstrated. 
Dogs  dosed  with  palonosetron  had  significantly  fewer  emetic  episodes  than  vehicle  control  animals 
but there was no evidence of a significant dose-response relationship. 
In  male  ferrets,  the  use  of  palonosetron  to  antagonise  the  emetic  effect  of  10.0  mg/kg  cisplatin  i.v. 
showed  that  palonosetron  administered  intravenously  resulted  in  a  significant  reduction  in  emetic 
episodes  at  all  of  the  doses  tested  (0.001  to  0.1  mg/kg).  Doses  of  palonosetron  of  0.003  mg/kg  or 
higher were significantly effective in ferrets [16].  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  were  conducted  for  5-HT1,  5-HT2  and  for  NK-1 
receptors. 
In one study (AT 6446) substance P-induced contractions of guinea pig ileum was slightly reduced by 
palonosetron  (1  µM),  albeit  at  concentrations  1000  times  those  used  to  elicit  5-HT3  antagonistic 
responses. 
Activity  at  5-HT4  receptors  was  investigated  in  a  number  of  studies.  AT5964  demonstrated  that 
palonosetron  was  devoid  of  agonist  or  antagonist  activity  in  a  guinea  pig  hippocampal  membrane 
assay at concentrations of 100 µM. PALO-01-30 demonstrated that contractions could not be induced 
by palonosetron in guinea pig proximal colon up to 100 µM, but that palonosetron was able to block 
the 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MeOT) induced contractions at starting concentrations of 3 µM. IC50 was 
12  µM,  whereas  5-HT3  receptor  in  guinea  pig  ileum  had  an  IC50  of  0.028  µM  (400  times  greater 
potency). The method-control antagonist substance was SDZ-205,557.  
A  radioligand  binding  assays  were  performed  in  human  recombinant  CHO-K-1  cells  expressing  5-
HT5A  and  cells  expressing  NK-1  receptors  and  in  human  recombinant  HeLa  cells  expressing  5-HT6 
receptors.  Specific  and  non-specific  ligands  at  5HT  receptors  were  LSD  and  serotonin  respectively. 
Reference  compounds  for  5HT  receptors  were  methiothepin.  At  NK-1  receptors,  agonist  was 
substance P and antagonist was L-703,606.  
IC50 values for methiothepin inhibition of 5-HT5A and 5-HT6 were 2.9 nM and 2.8 nM. Only 10 µM 
palonosetron was able to inhibit the 5-HT5A receptor by 23%, whereas there was a slight stimulation 
(4%) of palonosetron at 5-HT6 receptors at 10 µM. 
IC50 of L-703,606 was 0.025µM on NK-1 receptors. Palonosetron at 10µM was only able to inhibit the 
NK-1 receptor by 3%. 
On guinea pig ileum, the reference agonist at NK-1 receptors was substance P that resulted in a 100% 
response  at  3  nM,  whereas  palonosetron  only  resulted  in  44%  agonist  activity  at  30  µM  relative  to 
substance  P  response.  Likewise,  L-703,606  (1  µM)  was  used  as  the  control  antagonist  which 
demonstrated  a  66%  reduction  in  agonist  response  compared  to  palonosetron  which  showed  a  19% 
reduction in activity at 30 µM. 
Discussion on secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Based  on  the  pharmacodynamic  data  submitted,  palonosetron  was  recognized  to  be  highly  selective 
for 5-HT3 receptors, in line with the results  of other published radioligand binding experiments [17] 
[18].  However,  the  applicant  did  not  directly  investigate  secondary  pharmacodynamic  responses, 
because  of  the  specificity  of  palonosetron  binding  to  5-HT3  receptors,  the  absence  of  effects  at 
sublethal doses in toxicity investigations and the absence of changes observed in safety pharmacology 
investigations. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
Central nervous system 
Palonosetron  given  orally  to  mice  at  10  to  60  mg/kg  had  no  significant  effect  on  responsiveness  to 
sub-convulsive  electroshock  or  metrazol  treatment.  Intraperitoneal  palonosetron  in  mice  at  up  to  1 
mg/kg  did  not  influence  behaviour  in  a  two-compartment  exploratory  black/white  box  model  of 
anxiety.  In  an  independent  experiment  at  a  different  laboratory  oral  treatment  at  up  to  3  mg/kg 
significantly  reduced  the  amount  of  time  in  the  dark  indicating  a  weak  anxiolytic  effect.  In  another 
study intraperitoneal administration to mice at up to 10 mg/kg had no meaningful effect on the central 
or autonomic nervous systems or on responsiveness to external stimuli. In all cases clear effects were 
seen with positive control substances.   
Cardiovascular system 
Effects on ionic currents 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effects of palonosetron on the IKr and INa currents were investigated in a series of in vitro studies 
using  stably  transfected  HEK293  cells  to  examine  hERG  and  hHNa  tail  currents  and  using  isolated 
“M” mid-myocardial ventricular cells from dogs.   
The  IC50 result for  the  IKr  channel was  similar in three different experiments.  A similar IKr  IC50 was 
obtained  for  ondansetron  (study  PALO-01-01)  and  palonosetron  inhibited  the  sodium  current  (study 
PALO-01-02)  to  a  greater  extent  (6.5  µM)  when  compared  to  ondansetron  (48.6  µM).  These 
experiments  were  carried  out  at  3  Hz,  which  are  likely  to  overestimate  the  block  observed  in  the 
sodium current, and therefore, the IC50 obtained.  
Effects on action potentials 
Effects on action potentials were investigated in guinea pig papillary muscles, rabbit Purkinje fibres, 
and dog Purkinje fibres and changes in action potential duration consistent with the effects seen on IKr 
channels at the cellular level were noted in all three systems (studies PALO-01-32, PALO-01-33 and 
PALO-99-48).   
Dose-related  effects  were  statistically  significant  at  3  µM  in  all  models  and  at  0.3µM  in  the  most 
sensitive  model,  rabbit  Purkinje  fibres,  under  the  normal  stimulation  rate  (60  pulse/min)  only.  A 
reverse use-dependency was noted in both Purkinje fibre models. Decreases in the amplitude of action 
potential and in depolarisation rate  were  also noted at the  highest  concentration (30  µM),  consistent 
with INa blockade. 
The  human  metabolite  M9,  had  no  effect  at  the  highest  concentration  tested  and  the  intermediate 
07-PALO, which is present in the finished product at not more than 1%, induced similar changes to 
those caused by palonosetron.  In dog Purkinje fibres, ondansetron also induced similar changes at 1 
µM or more (PALO-01-03). 
The  lowest  concentration  tested,  0.03µM,  did  not  cause  any  changes  in  any  model  and  is 
approximately three fold higher than the plasma concentrations seen in patients treated at the proposed 
clinical dose.  
Effects in vivo 
In  an  anaesthetised  dog  model  (study  AT  6242),  transient  minor  reductions  in  blood  pressure  were 
observed immediately after intravenous injections of palonosetron at 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg. There were no 
changes in the QT interval or in any other electrocardiographic parameter.   
In a series of telemetry studies conscious dogs were given bolus injections of palonosetron (PALO-99-
49),  M9  or  07-PALO  (PALO-01-05)  or  a  15-minute  infusion  of  ondansetron  (PALO-01-04).    There 
were no meaningful changes in blood pressure or in the electrocardiograms with palonosetron at up to 
1 mg/kg, the highest dose studied. There were also no changes with M9 at up to 0.1 mg/kg or with 07-
PALO  at  up  to  0.01  mg/kg.  These  dosages  were  selected  to  mimic  up  to  100-fold  higher  than  the 
maximum  possible  human  exposures.  Ondansetron  at  7.5  mg/kg,  15-fold  greater  than  the  maximum 
human dose, was associated with prolonged QT intervals, increased heart rates and changes in T-wave 
morphology indicating effects on ventricular repolarisation. 
In  anaesthetised  vagotomised  β-adrenoreceptor  blocked  guinea  pigs  (PALO-01-34)  there  were  no 
effects  at  intravenous  dosages  of  up  to  1  mg/kg;  at  3  mg/kg  prolonged  monophasic  action  potential 
was attributed to bradycardia; 10 mg/kg was fatal. 
In anaesthetised α1-adrenoreceptor activated rabbits (PALO-01-35), a pro-arrhythmic model designed 
for  detection  of  Torsades  de  Pointes,  various  effects  on  cardiac  conduction  and  arrhythmic  episodes 
were seen after a 10-minute intravenous infusion of 10 mg/kg but there were no Torsades de Pointes. 
In a hemodynamic and respiratory investigation in mongrel dogs (AT 5493) palonosetron caused no 
effects at intravenous dosages of up to 1mg/kg. 
Respiratory system 
The absence of hemodynamic effects in mongrel dogs (AT 5493) was confirmed in a follow-up study 
(AT  6161)  that  included  extensive  respiratory  measures.  Some  marginal  changes  at  1  mg/kg  were 
attributed to individual variation. 
Autonomic nervous system 
Intravenous  palonosetron  at  up  to  1mg/kg  in  dogs  caused  a  mild  to  moderate  dose-dependent 
attenuation of the blood pressure response to sympathetic ganglionic stimulation with McNeil-A-343 
8 
 
 
 
(AT 6168).  This suggests that palonosetron had modest inhibitory activity at muscarinic receptor sites 
on sympathetic ganglia. Challenge with norepinephrine, isoproterenol, dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium 
and acetylcholine had no effect. 
Gastrointestinal system 
Palonosetron given orally to rats at up to 0.3 mg/kg had no effect on appetite over the following four 
hours  (AT  5452).  Intraperitoneal  administration  to  rats  of  doses  of  up  to  1  mg/kg  had  no  effect  on 
gastric emptying (AT 5244). 
Renal/urinary system 
In  a  renal  function  study  using  normotensive  male  rats,  oral  palonosetron  was  associated  with  a 
decrease in chloride and sodium excretion within one hour of treatment at up to 0.1 mg/kg (AT 6005). 
There was no effect at 1 mg/kg and these changes were not considered physiologically meaningful. 
Discussion on Safety pharmacology programme  
The  safety  pharmacology  data  obtained  from  the  studies  to  assess  the  effect  of  palonosetron  on  the 
central  nervous  system,  were  consistent  with  the  low  affinity  of  palonosetron  for  bioreceptors  other 
than 5-HT3 and suggested little likelihood of centrally mediated effects. 
Although  convulsions,  ataxia,  subdued  behaviour  and  occasional  changes  in  gait  were  reported  in 
many of the toxicity studies, in general these occurred only at fatal or near fatal dosages and probably 
reflect extreme physiological conditions that have no relevance to potential clinical events. Since these 
changes usually occurred in the period immediately after dosing, it is likely that they were associated 
with high plasma concentrations.   
The changes observed in the in vitro studies to assess the cardiovascular safety of palonosetron were 
consistent with the known effects of 5-HT3 antagonists, all of which inhibit both IKr and INa currents 
[19]. The changes occurred at concentrations that are greater than those anticipated in clinical practice 
and it was considered unlikely that palonosetron would have any effect on these channels in human.  
Moreover, palonosetron is 60 % protein bound, and therefore, the free drug concentrations in human 
patients  are  lower  than  those  associated  with  any  change  observed  in  vitro  on  the  action  potentials, 
even in the most sensitive model tested. It was considered unlikely that the observed changes in these 
models would have any significant safety implications for patients. 
Results  form  safety  pharmacology  studies  suggested  little  concern  for  effects  on  respiratory,  gastro-
intestinal, renal, central and autonomic system functions at therapeutic doses.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Since  palonosetron  will  be  co-administered  with  anticancer  chemotherapeutic  agents,  a  number  of 
interaction  studies  using  intraperitoneal  injections  of  palonosetron  have  been  carried  out  in  mice.  
These  include  interactions  with  cisplatin  (PALO-99-68,  AT  6777),  cytarabine  (PALO-99-36), 
cyclophosphamide  (PALO-99-37),  mitomycin  C  (PALO-99-66)  and  doxorubicin  (PALO-99-67), 
using mouse cancer models according to USA National Institute of Health protocols. Dosages of 1, 10 
and 30 mg/kg of cisplatin were used on study AT 6777 and of 10 mg/kg for all other studies, repeated 
up to ten times. No significant interactions were observed in any of these studies.   
•  Summary of salient pharmacodynamic findings 
Palonosetron hydrochloride is a serotonin (5- hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT) receptor antagonist which 
exerts its effect by interacting with the 5-HT3 receptors as an antagonist. Palonosetron is structurally 
unrelated to currently available 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. Palonosetron has shown little or no affinity 
for  other  bioreceptors,  including  other  serotonergic  receptors  (5-HT1,  5-HT2  and  5-HT4).  The 
antagonist activity of palonosetron main metabolites, M4 (hydroxy derivate) and M9 (N-oxide derivate), 
was considered clinically non-relevant. 
In vivo  studies to  assess the antiemetic effect of palonosetron were carried out in rat, dog and ferret 
including comparison with the antiemetic drugs granisetron and ondansetron. Outcomes revealed that 
palonosetron  was  able  to  reverse  the  emetic  effects  of  cisplatin,  dacarbazine,  actinomycin-D  and 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
mechlorethamine.  The  antiemetic  effect  of  palonosetron  was  shown  to  be  more  potent  and  more 
prolonged in time than that of granisetron and ondansetron. 
The  safety  pharmacology  of  palonosetron  including  central  nervous  system,  respiratory  system, 
autonomic  nervous  system,  gastrointestinal  system,  renal/urinary  system,  blood  compatibility  and 
hemodynamic  and  respiratory  effects  have  been  studied.  Moreover,  extensive  investigation  of 
cardiovascular safety was performed. In vitro studies confirmed the expected effects of palonosetron, 
which are those of the other 5-HT3 antagonists, on IKr and INa currents and action potentials, but at very 
high concentrations. In vivo studies using several species showed effects on cardiac conduction, but no 
Torsades de Pointes were observed, despite the use of doses up to 1 mg/kg (which is 300-fold higher 
than the proposed human dose). 
The applicant provided adequate arguments to justify why oral studies sufficiently describe the effects 
of palonosetron on gastro-intestinal, renal and CNS functions regardless of route of administration.  
The  CHMP  considered  the  non-clinical  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  studies  performed  to 
investigate  possible  effects  on  tumour  pathology  not  sufficient,  as  they  did  not  address  possible 
adverse interactions. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics at low dosages have been studied in rats (albino and pigmented strains), dogs, 
monkeys and human using labelled [14C]-palonosetron. The animal studies included both intravenous 
and  oral  routes  of  administration.  Only the  intravenous  route  has  been  investigated  in  humans  since 
this is the proposed route of clinical administration. Some further studies, using higher oral dosages of 
cold material and validated analytical methods, have been carried out in rats and dogs.  
•  Method of analysis 
A number of validated methods were used. An HPLC method with radioimmunoassay quantification 
was  developed  for  palonosetron  and  M9  (IAR-B-1009),  and  was  then  supplemented  with  a  UV 
absorbance detection method for higher concentrations (IAR-B-1013). Subsequently three LC/MS/MS 
methods were developed and validated for quantitation of palonosetron and M9 in mouse, rat and dog 
plasma and were used in conjunction with toxicology and carcinogenicity studies (those starting with 
the code PALO-).  
•  Absorption-Bioavailability 
Absorption was high in rats, dogs and monkeys, as deduced from the predominant urinary excretion of 
radioactivity, which showed little difference between oral and intravenous administration. Absorption 
was  rapid  in  rats  and  dogs  following  oral  administration.  Tmax  in  rats  was  at  0.25  hours,  the  first 
sample collected, regardless of dose and at 0.375 hours in dogs treated at 20 mg/kg but around 1 hour 
following treatment at 0.5 mg/kg. In monkeys treated at 0.5 mg/kg, Tmax was at 8 hours. 
Despite high and rapid absorption, the oral bioavailability of palonosetron was low in all three animal 
species  examined  (6.4,  12.5  and  9.0%  in  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys,  respectively).  The  data  suggested 
that  absorption  of  radioactivity  in  these  studies  was  around  100%  and  the  low  bioavailability  was 
attributed to extensive pre-systemic metabolism. 
•  Distribution  
The single dose plasma kinetics of palonosetron derived from various studies performed in albino and 
pigmented rats, dog and monkey (excluding toxicokinetic data) were compared (see table 1): 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  1:  Plasma  kinetic  parameters  of  palonosetron  following  single  administration  of  [14C]-
palonosetron or palonosetron: 
Species 
Dose a  
(mg/kg) 
Cmax 
(ng-Eq/mL 
or ng/mL) 
 d 
(0-tlast)
AUC 
(ng-Eq·h/mL 
or ng·h/mL) 
T1/2 
(h) 
Tmax 
(h) 
CL  
(L.hr-1.kg-1) 
Vdβ 
(L/kg)  Report 
Rat (albino) 
Rat 
(pigmented) 
Dog 
Monkey 
Man 
Man 
Rat (albino) 
Dog 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.010 
0.003 c 
0.5 
0.5 b 
60 b 
180 b 
0.5 
0.5 b 
6 b 
20 b 
0.5 
58.3 
52.9 
122 
112 
3.13 
5.63 
0.964 
0.346 
2170 
5600 
16.4 
4.98 
100 
1400 
Intravenous administration 
58.9 24h 
51.9 24h 
1.49  0.083 
0.877  0.083 
194 24h 
495 48h 
65 ∞ 
8.57 24h / 35.8 ∞ 
1.87  0.083 
4.44  0.083 
37.4  0.083 
56.4  0.144 
Oral administration 
3.94 24h 
0.454 4h 
2520 8h 
11300 24h 
24.2 48h 
29.9 48h 
295 48h 
2890 96h 
44.4 48h 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
2.17  1 
2.12  1.38 
4.54  0.500 
9.97  0.375 
7.96 
8.67 
2.58 
1.03 
0.16 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
17.1 
11.0 
6.95 
6.60 
8.34 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
ND 
AT 6264 
AT 6285 
AT 5976 
DM 1078 
2216 
2330 
AT 6264 
AT 6303 
AT 6303 
AT 6303 
AT 5976 
AT 6304 
AT 6304 
AT 6304 
4.65 
Based on [14C]-palonosetron except: 
palonosetron; samples analysed using validated methods IAR-B-1009 or IAR-B-1013; 
palonosetron, at the proposed clinical dose, samples assayed using validated method IAR-B-1058. 
except man, presented as (0-24) or (0-∞). Time of last data indicated by superscript.  
Monkey 
a  
b  
c  
d  
Abbreviations: AUC = area under the concentration versus time curve, Cmax = maximal observed plasma concentration,  
CL = clearance, ND = not determined, T1/2 = half-life, , Vdβ = volume of distribution where β is the terminal elimination rate constant. 
DM 1078 
ND 
ND 
ND 
8 
No  differences  were  noted  between  albino  and  pigmented  rats.  In  all  animal  species,  the  Cmax  and 
AUC  values  following  oral  dosing  were  considerably  lower  than  after  intravenous  administration  at 
the same dosages, consistent with extensive first-pass metabolism.   
The Cmax and AUC at high oral dosages in rats were considerably greater than predicted by the data at 
0.5  mg/kg,  indicating that elimination mechanisms  may be  saturated  although palonosetron was  still 
rapidly cleared from the plasma. The plasma kinetics in dogs treated orally at 20 mg/kg, Cmax and to a 
lesser extent AUC were greater than predicted by the 0.5 mg/kg data, suggesting a similar saturation 
of elimination mechanisms. 
Both the clearance and volume of distribution following intravenous treatment in rats were higher than 
in dogs. 
The plasma kinetics in monkeys were considerably closer to those of dogs than to humans. Compared 
with  dogs,  monkeys  have  a  slightly  longer  half-life  and  slower  clearance  following  intravenous 
treatment and consequently higher AUC, together with slow absorption following oral administration 
(Tmax at eight hours), and a lower Cmax (see clinical pharmacokinetics).  
Following repeated oral administration for five days at 60 mg/kg in rats (AT 6302) or at 6 mg/kg in 
dogs (AT 6301), there was very little difference in the plasma kinetics of palonosetron compared with 
Day 1 (see table 2). 
11 
 
 
 
 
DAY 1 
3340 
519 
DAY 5 
2490 
659 
Table 2: The plasma kinetic parameters of palonosetron following multiple oral administration 
Species 
Rat 
Dog 
Dose level 
(mg/kg/day) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
AUC(0-24hr) 
(ng·hr/ml) 
T1/2 
(hr) 
Tmax 
(hr) 
Reports 
60 
60 
1970 
126 
ND 
1.74 
0.25 
1.56 
AT 6302 
AT 6301 
60 
60 
Rat 
Dog 
Abbreviations: AUC = area under the concentration versus time curve, Cmax = maximal observed plasma concentration, CL 
= clearance, ND = not determined, T1/2 = half-life, Tmax= time at which maximal concentration achieved, Vdβ = volume of 
distribution where β is the terminal elimination rate constant. 
AT 6302 
AT 6301 
0.5 
0.813 
2030 
175 
ND 
2.06 
Tissue  distribution  studies  in  albino  rats  following  intravenous  administration  of  single  doses  of 
[14C]-palonosetron at 0.5 mg/kg (AT 6264) indicate tissue to plasma ratios that were generally greater 
than one. Highest ratios were in the intestinal tract, consistent with biliary excretion. High ratios were 
also apparent  in the  kidney and  bladder, consistent  with  urinary excretion.  Apart from these tissues, 
highest  concentrations  were  apparent  in  lungs,  liver,  adrenals  and  testes  and  lowest  in  fat,  bone 
(without  marrow)  and  the  medulla  (brain).    Concentrations  generally  peaked  within  two  hours,  later 
peaks  were  observed  in  skin,  testes,  liver,  stomach,  bone  and  fat.  Concentration  ratios  in  the  brain 
peaked at 30 min; chromatographic analysis indicated only palonosetron, no metabolites. The kinetic 
pattern in the brain mirrored that in plasma, indicating rapid elimination. By 96 hours, concentrations 
in all tissues, except the eye, were below the limit of quantitation.   
In  a  pigmented  rat  study  (AT  6285)  similar  results  were  obtained  except  that  concentrations  of 
radioactivity  were  highest  in  the  eye  and  high  concentrations  persisted  at  96  hours.  The  half-life  of 
elimination from pigmented eyes was calculated to be 4.71 days indicating that palonosetron or one of 
its rat metabolites has potential for reversible melanin binding. 
An  in  vitro  study  demonstrated  non  specific  and  non  saturable  binding  of  palonosetron  to  plasma 
proteins (CL 6204).  Binding was approximately 48, 66 and 62% in rat, dog and human plasma. 
•  Metabolism (in vivo/in vitro) 
Fourteen different metabolites have been detected in rats, dogs and monkeys, of which eight have been 
structurally  identified.  The  general  metabolic  reactions  are  oxidation  at  the  nitrogen  in  the  hetero-
bicyclic  ring  to  produce  an  N-oxide  and  the  addition  of  hydroxy  groups  to  the  molecule.    In  some 
cases the hydroxy groups are further oxidised to the corresponding ketone (see figure 1).  
Figure 1: Structural formula of palonosetron 
N
O
N
H
H
.HCl
 Molecular Formula: C19H24N2O HCl 
Mr: 332.87. 
The  main human metabolites, M4 and M9 are also produced by rats, dogs and monkeys. Two  other 
metabolites, M5 and M6, have been identified at trace levels in human plasma; both are produced in 
dogs but only M6 has been found in rats.   
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The major metabolites were M1 and M12 in rat plasma, M1, M2 and M3 in dog plasma. None of these 
have  been  identified  in  human.  In  monkey  M8  was  the  major  metabolite  and  M4  and  M9,  each 
accounted  for  more  than  10%  of  radioactivity  in  the  urine.  In  each  species,  palonosetron  was  a 
significant component of activity in plasma but accounted for less than 6% of activity in urine.  
Following  oral  treatment  the  metabolite  patterns  in  rats  and  dogs  were  similar  to  those  seen  after 
intravenous dosing.   
Small but measurable amounts of M4 were detected in rat plasma following both oral and intravenous 
treatment and there  was  no difference  between  pigmented and  albino  animals. Larger amounts were 
found in both dogs and monkeys together with significant amounts of M9, regardless of the route of 
administration. M9 was not detected in rats following treatment with [14C]-palonosetron at 0.5 mg/kg, 
but  was  apparent  in  significant  amounts  following  oral  treatment  at  higher  dosages  (AT 6303).  In 
monkeys, the oral Tmax for both metabolites was eight hours, as for palonosetron, and four hours for 
M4 following intravenous dosing. In all other cases Tmax was at two hours or less. The longest half-
life, of those determined, was for M4 in dogs at 4.26 hours. 
Following  repeated  administration  to  rats  and  dogs,  the  exposure  to  M9  was  higher  than  following 
single doses (AT 6301 and AT 6302). 
There  have  been  no  in  vitro  or  in  vivo  animal  studies  of  enzyme  induction.  However,  studies  have 
been carried out using human biomaterials and are discussed in the clinical section.  
•  Excretion 
The  major  route  of  excretion  in  rat,  dogs  and  monkeys  was  urinary  (further  to  oral  and  i.v. 
administration). Biliary excretion was significant in rats and to a lesser extent in dogs. In rats most of 
the dose was recovered within the first 24 hours. In dogs most of the dose had been recovered within 
48 hours. Excretion in monkeys was essentially complete by 72 hours.  
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interaction 
Potential  pharmacokinetic  interactions  have  not  been  investigated  as  part  of  the  nonclinical 
development.  
Toxicology 
The hydrochloride (HCl) salt and free base forms have been administered in non-clinical studies. Most 
studies  used  the  hydrochloride  salt.  The  intended  clinical  i.v.  dose  of  palonosetron  (0.25mg) 
corresponds to approximately 0.003 mg/kg. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Studies  were  carried  out  in  mouse,  rat  and  dog  using  intravenous  and  oral  route  of  administration. 
Death  in  all  species  was  associated  with  convulsions  and  collapse.  According  to  the  results  of  the 
experiments there were no effects on body weight or food intake in any study. There was no indication 
of any influence of sex on the outcomes. 
Single dose toxicity studies established a maximum non-lethal intravenous dosage of 10 mg/kg in rats 
and mice and 20 mg/kg in dogs. A maximum non-lethal oral dosage of 250 mg/kg in rats, 100 mg/kg 
in mice and 50 mg/kg in dogs were established. Signs seen at non-lethal dosages included inactivity, 
tremors, ataxia and laboured respiration.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
A summary of the repeat dose toxicity studies carried out in mouse, rat and dog is provided in table 3. 
Table 3: Summary of the repeat dose toxicity studies 
Species 
Route 
Duration 
Mouse 
Oral gavage 
3 months
Oral gavage 
10 months
Rat 
Dog 
Intravenous 
Oral gavage 
Intravenous 
Oral gavage 
1 month
26 weeks
1 month
3 months
15 months
up to 10 days
1 month
9 months
2 weeks
1 month
Oral capsule 
3 months
Group size 
m + f 
          Dosages (mg/kg/day) 
Tested 
NOAEL 
10 + 10 
75 + 75 
10 + 10 
20 + 20 a 
10 + 10 
15 + 15 
75 + 75 
2 + 2 
3 + 3 
4 + 4 b 
1 + 1 
3 + 3 
5 + 5 
0, 30, 60, 90, 120 
0, 0, 10, 30, 60 
0, 1, 3, 10 
0, 2, 7, 10 
0, 6, 18, 60, 180 
0, 18, 60, 120, 180 
60 
NR 
10 
7 
18 
18 
0, 0, 15, 30/45, 60/90 
NR 
5, 10, 15 
0, 1, 3, 10 
0, 1, 3, 6 
0, 10, 20, 40 
0, 2, 6, 20 
0, 2, 10, 40 
5 
3 
6 
10 
6 
10 
Report 
AT 6751 
AT 7464 
AT 5962 
PALO-99-08 
AT 6329 
AT 6665 
AT 7455 
PALO-99-19 
AT 5963 
PALO-99-10 
708-D-92 
AT 6328 
AT 6787 
Abbreviations: a: an additional 10 +10 were allocated to the control and high dose group for recovery studies; b: an additional 
2 + 2 were allocated to the control and high dose group for recovery studies; f = female; m: male; NR: not relevant; NOAEL: 
no observed adverse effect level. 
Intravenous studies 
In a 26-week rat study, the highest dosage was originally scheduled to be 14 mg/kg/day but this was 
reduced after a single dose because of the severity of signs observed. Increased mortality was apparent 
at 10 mg/kg/day on this study (six rats, including three toxicokinetic satellites). A no observed adverse 
effect level (NOAEL) of 7 mg/kg/day was established.    
A high dose regimen was planned on a nine-month study in dogs but severe signs (convulsions, ataxia, 
subdued  behaviour  and  emesis)  and  one  death  forced  a  dosage  reduction  after  the  second  day  at  10 
mg/kg/day. There was no toxicity observed at 6 mg/kg/day. 
The  treatment-related  clinical  signs  observed  at  the  highest  dosages  included  convulsions,  ataxia, 
exaggerated startle response, tremors, inactivity, transient vocalisation and various changes in gait or 
stance.  There  were  no  effects  on  body  weight,  food  intake,  ophthalmoscopy,  electrocardiography, 
clinical  pathology,  macroscopic  pathology,  organ  weights  or  histopathology.  Exposures,  in  terms  of 
AUC, at the no observed adverse effect levels in the chronic studies was at least 170-fold higher than 
observed in human patients. 
Oral studies 
In  a  3-month  mouse  study,  mortality  was  increased  in  males  at  90  mg/kg/day  and  in  both  sexes  at 
120  mg/kg/day,  with  associated  clinical  signs.  Urinary  protein  output  was  increased  in  females  at 
90  mg/kg/day  and  120  mg/kg/day  and  accessory  sex  organ  weights  were  reduced  in  males  at 
120 mg/kg/day.  
In  a  one-month  rat  study  changes  at  180  mg/kg/day  included  reduced  body  weight  gain,  occasional 
signs and numerous clinical pathology variations, most of which were within the normal range. Low 
testis  and  secondary  sex  organ  weights  were  associated  with  degeneration  and  necrosis  of  the 
seminiferous  epithelium.    Low  thymus  weights  in  females  associated  with  lymphoid  depletion  and 
high  liver  weights  in  both  sexes  with  foamy  cytoplasmic  swelling  in  centrilobular  hepatocytes.  The 
14 
 
 
 
 
only potentially significant change that extended to lower dosages was high adrenal weights, seen in 
males treated at 18 mg/kg/day or more. This was not associated with any histopathological change.   
Mortality  was  clearly  increased  at  180  mg/kg/day  in  the  three-month  study;  most  males  died.  
Histopathology  changes  included  reduced  trabecular  bone,  testicular  atrophy,  lymphoid  atrophy 
primarily in the spleen, progressive nephropathy, decreased bone marrow cellularity, increased thymic 
atrophy,  hypertrophy  of  the  adrenal  zona  glomerulosa  and  increased  height  of  the  thyroid  follicular 
epithelium.  There  were  no  treatment-related  deaths  at  120  mg/kg/day  but  similar  histopathology 
changes were seen in the bone, testis, spleen and kidney. Treatment related changes at 60 mg/kg/day 
comprised  low  body  weights  in  males,  occasional  signs,  various  minor  clinical  pathology  changes, 
increased liver and spleen weights and, in a few males, histopathological changes in bone and testis.  
Minor clinical pathology changes at 18 mg/kg/day were not considered significant. 
Exposure to palonosetron at 60 mg/kg/day was more than 170-fold higher than in patients. Data from 
the study PALO-98-03 suggest that the repeat dose oral exposure at 15 mg/kg/day was 30 to 50-fold 
higher than in patients. 
In  a  3-month  dog  study,  once  daily  treatment  at  40  mg/kg  was  associated  with  convulsions,  weight 
loss, and thymic atrophy. Treatment at 20 mg/kg once daily or 10 mg/kg twice daily was associated 
with low alkaline phosphatase and cholesterol levels. Treatment at 20 mg/kg once or twice daily was 
associated with low testis weights.   
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
- Three in vitro studies were conducted. 
A bacterial reverse mutation test (Ames test) was conducted. Doses tested were from 33 to 1000 and 
5000 µg/plate, with or without  metabolic activation (S9 mix). There was  no evidence for mutagenic 
activity.  
A  mammalian  cell  mutation  (CHO/HGPRT  assay:  Chinese  hamster  ovary/hypoxanthine-guanine 
phosphoribosyl  transferase)  was  conducted.  Doses  tested  ranged  from  300  to  800  µg/ml  without 
metabolic activation (S9 mix) and from 200 to 1000 µg/ml with activation. There was no evidence for 
mutagenic activity of palonosetron.  
A chromosome aberration assay  was conducted in CHO  cells.  Doses tested  ranged from  151 to  355 
µg/ml without S9 mix and from 277 to 650 µg/ml with S9 mix. A clastogenic effect was observed in 
the absence of metabolic activation and an equivocal response with metabolic activation.  
An additional in vitro photo-chromosome aberration assay performed in V79 cells, was negative.  
- Two in vivo studies were conducted. 
A mouse micronucleus assay was conducted. Mice were treated intravenously at up to 10 mg/kg, there 
was no evidence for mutagenic or clastogenic effects.  
Palonosetron was also tested in the in vivo Unscheduled DNA Synthesis test in rat hepatocytes. Rats 
were treated intravenously at doses of up to 30 mg/kg. There was no evidence for DNA damage.   
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Two  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  in  rat  and  mice.  In  rats,  a  104  weeks  oral 
gavage  study  was  conducted  at  daily  doses  from  0  to  60  mg/kg/day  in  male  rats  and  from  0  to  90 
mg/kg/day  in  female  rats.  In  mice,  a  104  weeks  study  was  also  conducted  in  which  animals  were 
exposed to palonosetron by oral gavage in concentrations of 0 to 60 mg/kg/day.  
Oral  dosages  used  were  multiples  of  the  proposed  human  dosage  (based  on  AUC0-24h)  ranging  from 
136 to 1220-fold in males and from 61 to 706-fold in females. 
In  mouse,  macroscopic  examination  indicated  an  increased  incidence  of  swollen  spleen  in  males 
treated  at  15  mg/kg/day  and  in  females  treated  at  60  mg/kg/day.  These  observations  were  not 
associated with any significant histopathological change. There was no increase in the incidences of 
any tumour in any group of female mice. The only significant increase in tumours among male mice 
was for the combined incidence of malignant lymphoma and malignant pleomorphic lymphoma at the 
lowest dosage of 15 mg/kg/day. There was no increase in this tumour type among animals killed at the 
terminal sacrifice. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rat there were increased incidences of proliferative lesions at all dosages in the pancreas and pituitary of males 
and, at the high dosage only, in the adrenals, liver, thyroids, mammary gland, skin and tail. At examination after 
104 weeks, the erythrocyte count was reduced in rats treated at 45 mg/kg/day or more. Neutrophil counts were 
slightly  increased  in  females  treated  at  45  or  90  mg/kg/day.  Changes  in  pituitary,  adrenal,  liver  and  spleen 
weights were also seen at the intermediate dosages and increased liver weight was considered to extend to rats 
treated  at  15  mg/kg/day.  The  incidence  of  clear  cell  foci  in  the  liver  was  also  seen  in  males  treated  at  15 
mg/kg/day. Degeneration of the tubular germinal epithelium of the testis was seen in almost all males treated at 
60 mg/kg/day, the change was severe in most cases and accompanied by hypospermia in the epididymides; the 
incidence and severity of these changes was unaffected at lower dosages. 
Males  at  all  dosages  had  a  higher  incidence  of  keratoacanthoma  than  in  control  males.    In  addition 
males treated at the high dosage had a high incidence of squamous cell papillomas on the tail.  These 
tissues were only examined if macroscopically abnormal. Females were unaffected.  
Discussion on carcinogenicity 
With the exception of a small increase in hepatocellular adenomas in female rats, the increase in the 
incidences of tumors were predominantly those of the endocrine system for which the rat is known to 
be particularly susceptible.  
There  is  interaction  of  5-HT3  antagonists  with  inhibition  of  dopamine  activity.  Activation  of 
postsynaptic  5-HT3  receptors  located  on  dopaminergic  terminals  may  lead  to  changes  in  dopamine 
transmission in in vivo experiments performed in rats [20]. 5-HT3 receptor antagonists partially inhibit, 
with low potency, the stimulation of dopamine release[21]. Ondansetron is able to attenuate increases 
in dopamine activity [22]. In conclusion, there are links between the serotonin and dopamine systems, 
especially  noted  in  high  doses  where  selectivity  of  receptors  would  be  less  likely,  which  explain 
endocrine tumour development.  
Increases in liver weights were only noted in high dose animals (above 60 mg/kg/day) and were not 
associated with any significant pathology changes. The increased liver weights may have been caused 
by  hypertrophy  owing  to  the  extensive  drug  metabolism.  Most  of  the  increased  liver  weights  were 
associated  with  increases  in  clear  cell  foci,  which  refer  to  glycogen  and  possibility  of  altered 
metabolism.  The  studies  in  which  these  changes  were  noted  were  carcinogenicity  studies,  and  liver 
weight increases were only apparent after a life-time of oral administration to rats. These effects were 
unlikely  to  be  of  relevance  to  human,  clinical  human  exposure  being  a  single  intravenous 
administration.  
Based  on  historical  histopathology  data  on  selected  tumours  in  rats,  the  apparent  increase  of 
keratoacanthomas  in  male  rats  treated  with  palonosetron  was  not  ascribed  to  treatment  with 
palonosetron. 
The AUC achieved in these studies were much higher than the exposure achievable in man in single 
dose administration, and therefore the potential risk to humans was not considered relevant. 
Also,  controls  had  unusually  low  incidences  of  the  tumours,  this  may  have  been  the  reason  for 
statistically significant results in these studies. As exposure was so much higher and treatment was for 
so long a period compared to the intended human administration dose and regimen, it was concluded 
that the risk these tumours pose for humans is not relevant. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Reproduction studies were summarised table 4. 
16 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Summary of Reproduction Toxicity Studies 
Species  Route 
Treatment period 
i.v. 
2w pre-mating + 4w 
Rat 
61-63d pre-mating 
Oral 
2w pre-mating to Day 9 
Rat 
Oral 
Rabbit 
Oral 
gestation 
Days 7-16 gestation 
Days 7-16 gestation 
Days 7-19 gestation 
Days 7-19 gestation 
Rat 
Oral 
Day 6 gestation to Day 21 post 
partum 
Dosages, mg/kg/day 
NOAEL a  Study names 
Group size
m + f 
10 + 0 
15 + 0 
Tested 
0, 1, 3, 10 
0, 18, 60, 120 
0 + 30 
0, 9, 30, 60 
0 + 9 
0, 30, 90, 180 
0 + 20-24 
0, 18, 60, 120 
0 + 6 
0 + 8-17 
0, 10, 30, 100 
0, 18, 60, 120-90 b 
10 
60 
30 
90 
18 
30 
AT 6267 
AT 6700 
AT 6750 
703-R-94 
AT 6756 
704-B-94 
120-90  AT 6755 
0 + 24 
0, 9, 30, 60 
60 
PALO-99-13 
Abbreviations: a  For reproduction effects;  b  Dosage reduced because of maternal deaths; w: weeks. 
Fertility and embryonic development 
Based on the results of the male rat fertility studies, there were no changes at 60 mg/kg/day associated 
with treatment. In the female rat oral study there was a small but statistically significant reduction in 
the number of females treated at 60 mg/kg/day that mated, with a consequent reduction in the number 
of pregnancies.   
Embryo-foetal development 
In rats, no significant malformations of foetus were identify and there was no change in the incidences 
of  visceral  anomalies.  Skeletal  examination  indicated  reduced  ossification,  consistent  with  the 
reduction  in  foetal  body  weights,  particularly  at  the  highest  dosage.  There  was  no  indication  of  any 
other morphological change. In rabbits, there were no treatment-related changes in clinical signs, body 
weight  gain  or  necropsy  observations.  There  was  no  effect  on  the  numbers  of  corpora  lutea, 
implantations, resorptions or live litter size. There was no significant effect on foetal body weight, sex 
ratio or on the incidences of external, visceral or skeletal malformation or variations. 
Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function 
Pregnant rats were orally treated (at doses from 0 to 60 mg/kg/day) from day 6 of gestation to weaning 
of their offspring on day 21 post partum.  There was evidence of maternal toxicity at 60  mg/kg/day 
during  the  early  lactation  phase  and  two  dams  were  sacrificed  following  the  death  of  their  litters. 
There was no effect on reproduction in the F1 generation. 
Studies in the offspring  
Neonatal rats were treated at 0 to 50  mg/kg/day subcutaneously from  day 4 post partum for 8 to 31 
days, and dogs were treated at 0 to 6 mg/kg/day intravenously from approximately two weeks of age 
for 14 to 28 days. These studies did not show any toxicity that was not apparent in adult animals. 
Discussion on reproductive and developmental studies 
Although  oral  treatment  of  rats  (one-month  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  in  rat)  was  associated  with 
degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium, this was not observed in i.v. fertility studies, leading to 
the  conclusion  that  this  toxic  effect  might  be  due  to  a  metabolite.  No  treatment-related  teratogenic 
effects were seen. Maternal toxicity was the limiting factor in the embryo-foetal studies. Palenosetron 
did not affect pre- or postnatal development, except at high oral doses, unrepresentative of the clinical 
situation.  
The  selection  of  the  oral  gavage  and  subcutaneous  routes  used  in  the  majority  of  the  reproduction 
toxicity studies has been adequately justified by the applicant. 
The CHMP considered the studies conducted acceptable and the NOAELs were high enough to allow 
a reasonable assumption of safety in human. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Local tolerance  
Intravenous  irritation  studies  performed  in  rabbits  using  a  high  concentration  (10  mg/ml)  of  the 
clinical formulation of palonosetron were negative.  There was no indication of increased irritation at 
the  injection  sites  in  either  of  the  chronic  rat  and  dog  studies,  which  involved  repeated  daily 
intravenous injections for six or nine months.  
Discussion on local tolerance 
Considering  that  the  chronic  toxicity  studies  were  performed  with  a  different  formulation  than  that 
intended  for  clinical  administration,  and  considering  that  the  recommended  48  to  96  hour  local 
tolerance  studies  were  not  performed,  as  mentioned  in  the  guideline  CHMP/SWP/2145/00  [23],  the 
local tolerance of the final formulation could not be predicted. However, in clinical use, no significant 
local toxicity was documented, and therefore, the CHMP considered the final formulation non-irritant. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
In vitro photo-cytotoxicity and photo-clastogenicity tests, and a photo-allergenicity investigation that 
included a preliminary single-dose photo-irritation study were conducted. A summary of photo-safety 
studies is provided in table 5: 
Table 5: Photo-safety studies 
Study 
System 
Route 
Duration 
Group size 
Doses Tested 
Report 
Photocytotoxicity 
Balb/c3T3 cells 
Photo-
clastogenicity 
Photoirradiation 
CH V79 cells 
in 
vitro 
in 
vitro 
and 
Guinea pig 
dermal 
Photoallergenicity 
Single dose 
6 wells 
0.78-100µg/ml  PALO-01-14 
3 hours 
duplicate 
cultures 
Single dose 
4 females 
2w induction, 
challenge at 3w 
10 control 
20 test females 
125-2000µg/ml  PALO-01-16 
0, 10, 15, 25, 50 
% dilution 
PALO-01-15 
None of these studies indicated any potential photo-safety concerns. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The excretion of the medicinal product was considered to be urinary, and the predominant moiety was 
the parent molecule (palenosetron). A crude predicted environmental concentration (PECsurfacewater) of 7 
x 10-7 µg/l was calculated for the final formulation.  
• 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology  
Palonosetron  hydrochloride  is  a  potent  and  selective  serotonin  (5-hydroxytryptamine  or  5-HT) 
receptor antagonist. Palonosetron has shown little or no affinity for other bioreceptors, including other 
serotonergic receptors.  
Palonosetron  was  able  to  ameliorate  the  emetic  effects  of  cisplatin,  dacarbazine,  actinomycin-D  and 
mechlorethamine in relevant animal models. The anti-emetic effect of palonosetron was more potent 
and prolonged than that of granisetron and ondansetron. 
The  primary  non-clinical  pharmacology  studies  provided  in  this  dossier  satisfactorily  addressed  the 
non-clinical pharmacology profile of palonosetron to support the claimed indication. 
Concerning cardiovascular safety, in vitro studies confirmed the expected effects of palonosetron on 
IKr and INa currents and action potentials, known as class effects of 5-HT3 antogists, but at very high 
concentrations (see SPC section 5.3). In vivo studies using several species showed effects on cardiac 
conduction, but no Torsades de Pointes were observed, despite doses of up to 1 mg/kg, which is 300-
fold higher than the therapeutic dose in human. 
No pharmacodynamic interactions were observed in animal tumor models. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics were investigated by both oral and i.v. routes in the rat, dog and monkey. Although 
not specifically determined, it is likely that primates are similar to dogs for such studies. Palonosetron 
was rapidly absorbed, with a low bioavailability, suggesting extensive pre-systemic metabolism. Clear 
differences  were  observed  in  clearance  rates  and  plasma  half-life  between  species,  with  monkeys 
showing  a  slower  clearance  profile.  Humans,  at  therapeutic  doses,  demonstrated  a  linear  PK  profile 
with a similar volume of distribution and considerably slower clearance rates and plasma half-life.  
Palonosetron was extensively distributed, including to the brain. It did not accumulate and is rapidly 
cleared. No metabolites were measured in the brain, suggesting that they did not pass the blood-brain 
barrier or were cleared very rapidly.  
Although a range of metabolites was identified from animal oral studies, many were not relevant to the 
clinical situation, being products of first-pass metabolisms.  
Protein  binding  was  approximately  48  %  in  rat  and  66  %  in  dog  plasma.  The  moderate  extent  of 
plasma  protein  binding  suggests  that  small  changes  would  have  no  influence  on  palonosetron 
availability. The  absence  of  any  evidence  of  enzyme  induction  and  the  fact  that  inhibition  was  only 
apparent  at  high  concentrations  in  vitro  suggested  that  interactions  mediated  by  metabolic  enzymes 
were  unlikely.  One  pharmacology  experiment  on  the  relationship  between  plasma  concentrations  of 
palonosetron  and  the  protection  of  dogs  against  cisplatin-induced  emesis  (AT  6313)  did  not  suggest 
any significant difference in kinetics compared with other oral dog studies at similarly low dosages.   
Whilst it is acknowledged that every drug combination cannot be practically studied, the CHMP has 
been  concerned  about  the  lack  of  discussion  on  possible  adverse  (synergistic)  effects  with  co-
administered  medicinal  products  and  the  consequences  of  co-administration  of  other  CYP  2D6 
inducers  (such  as  dexamethasone).  The  applicant  was  asked  to  consider  the  sufficiency  of  these 
interactions studies, and to put forward a rationale for the safety of palenosetron in the likely clinical 
situation of polypharmacy. 
Elimination of palonosetron from tissues was parallel to plasma clearance, except in the eye.  
As no pharmacokinetic data were provided concerning palonosetron excretion in breast milk, breast-
feeding  should  be  discontinued  during  therapy  (see  SPC  section  4.6).  Moreover,  the  lack  of 
information on placental transfer has been included in the SPC (see SPC section 4.6). 
Toxicology 
The studies submitted to assess the repeated dose toxicity of palonosetron in mice used the oral route. 
However, the applicant’s justification for performing oral studies to mimic the exposure profile during 
intravenous administration in humans was considered acceptable. 
The CHMP assumed that, with the intended clinical human exposure being a single i.v. injection (the 
intended clinical i.v. dose of palenosetron (0.25mg) equates to approximately 0.004 mg/kg for a 70 kg 
adult),  and  at  a  dose  many  multiples  lower  than  the  lowest  animal  i.v  NOAEL  (7  mg/kg/day  and  6 
mg/kg/day for rat and dog, respectively), palenosetron, in the absence of drug interactions, was  safe 
for the intended use in human. 
According to the results obtained and to the ICH guideline on genotoxicity (CHMP/ICH/141/95)[24], 
palonosetron was considered as non-genotoxic (see SPC section 5.3). 
Two long-term studies assessed the carcinogenic potential of palonosetron in rat and mouse. Although 
the  oral  gavage  route  was  used  in  these  studies,  whereas  bolus  intravenous  is  the  route  of 
administration  of  the  proposed  indication,  all  dosages  used  were  multiples  of  the  proposed  human 
dosage and comparison of AUC0-24h values indicated large multiples, ranging from 136 to 1220-fold in 
males and from 61 to 706-fold in females. High doses applied daily for two years caused an increased 
rate of liver tumours, endocrine neoplasms (in thyroid, pituitary, pancreas, adrenal medulla) and skin 
tumours in rats but not in mice. The underlying mechanisms are not fully understood, but because of 
the  high  doses  employed  and  since  palonosetron  is  intended  for  single  application  in  humans,  these 
findings are not considered relevant for clinical use (see SPC section 5.3). 
The reproductive and developmental studies conducted were appropriate and the NOAELs were high 
enough to allow a reasonable assumption of safety in human. 
No evidence of local tolerance toxicity was observed in the i.v. toxicology investigations.  
Two  impurities,  the  final  intermediate  07-PALO  and  the  diastereoisomer  09-PALO,  have  been 
qualified  by their  presence  in  all  batches of  active substance  used  for  the  pivotal  studies throughout 
toxicity testing. It was considered that the presence of 07-PALO at not more than 1% in the medicinal 
19 
 
 
product  was  not  at  risk  for  the  use  of  palonosetron  in  clinical  use.  The  lack  of  09-PALO  toxicity 
studies was appropriately justified. 
From  other  toxicity  studies,  two  impurities,  the  final  intermediate  07-PALO  and  the 
diastereoisomer  09-PALO,  have  been  qualified  by  their  presence  in  all  batches  of  active 
substance  used  for  the  pivotal  studies  throughout  toxicity  testing  and  the  NOAEL  was 
established. These impurities were considered unlikely to represent a human hazard. 
In the environmental risk assessment showed that the PEC was well below the action value of 
0.01µg/l, as defined in the CHMP on environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for 
human use and therefore, no environmental effects are therefore anticipated from the use of 
palonosetron [25]. 
4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
All trials were conducted according to the principles of GCP. 
A total of 18 clinical studies have been submitted. These studies were carried out in patients in healthy 
volunteers and special populations using i.v. or oral administration.  
Studies performed with intravenous palonosetron in CINV are shown in table 6. 
Four clinical studies (2330, PALO-99-03, PALO-99-04, PALO-99-05) investigated the efficacy of an 
intravenous single dose of palonosetron during the acute period (24 hours), in adult patients receiving 
either  moderately  or  highly  emetogenic  chemotherapy.  Three  studies  were  pivotal  (PALO-99-03, 
PALO-99-04, PALO-99-05). Patients having completed one of the three studies could be enrolled in 
study  PALO-99-06,  an  uncontrolled  study  that  investigated  the  efficacy  of  repeated  doses  of 
palonosetron i.v. in consecutive chemotherapy cycles. 
An  additional  phase  II  study  in  CINV  (study  2120)  was  discontinued  after  only  two  patients  were 
enrolled due to the slow enrolment rate and did not contribute to the efficacy data.   
A paediatric study in patients with CINV was ongoing at the time of the submission of the application. 
Table 6: Summary of phase II and III trials performed with intravenous palonosetron 
Study Number 
Study Population 
Dosage Range 
2330 / PALO-00-01  Patients 
with 
highly 
emetogenic CINV 
PALO-99-03 
PALO-99-04 
PALO-99-05 
PALO-99-06 
Patients  with  moderately 
emetogenic CINV 
Patients  with  moderately 
emetogenic CINV 
Patients 
emetogenic CINV 
with 
highly 
highly 
Patients  with  moderately 
or 
emetogenic 
CINV,  recruited  in  studies 
PALO-99-03, -04 and -05 
.3, 1, 3, 10, 30, 
and 90 µg/kg 
single i.v. dose 
< .1, .25, .75, 2, 
or 6 mg single i.v. 
dose 
.25 or .75 mg
single i.v. dose 
Comparator 
(dose) 
2330  
Not applicable 
PALO-00-01  
historical placebo 
Ondansetron 
32 mg i.v. 
.25 or  .75 mg
single i.v. dose 
Dolasetron 
100 mg i.v. 
.25 or .75 mg
single i.v. dose 
Ondansetron 
32 mg i.v. 
Number of patients 
161 randomised 
570 randomised 
592 randomised 
680 randomised 
Repeated  .75 mg 
single  i.v. doses 
Not applicable 
905 enrolled 
(1733 chemotherapy 
cycles) 
Abbreviations: a : Original  protocol  called  for  dose  range  of  0.3  to  30 µg/kg,  but  it  was  amended  to  drop  the  0.3 µg/kg  dose  and  add  a 
90 µg/kg; CINV: Chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  and  dose  proportionality  of  palonosetron  following  intravenous  and  orally 
administered  have  been  conducted  in  healthy  volunteers  (studies  2092,  0100,  2236  and  0101),  in 
CINV patients (studies 2120, 2330 and 2332) and in PONV patients (studies 2500 and 2502). 
An ADME trial with radiolabelled palonosetron in healthy volunteers was performed (study 2216). 
Three special population studies were conducted in patients with renal (study PALO-99-35), hepatic 
impairment  (study  PALO-99-51),  and  patients  who  were  poor  or  extensive  metabolisers  of 
cytochrome P450 2D6 (study PALO-99-39).  
A pharmacokinetic interaction study between palonosetron and metoclopramide (study PALO-99-34) 
was performed. 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis (study PALO-99-33) on the concentration data derived from a 
large subset of patients enrolled in main studies (studies PALO-99-03, PALO-99-04, and PALO-99–
05) was performed. 
•  Method 
Palonosetron  and  M9  (primary  metabolite)  plasma  and  urine  concentrations  were  evaluated  using 
HPLC-RIA, LC/MS and LC/MS/MS analytical methods. 
•  Absorption 
Healthy volunteers 
Following single i.v. doses administered either as a five-minute infusion (study 2092, N = 60) or as a 
30- second bolus dose (study 0100, N = 24), plasma concentrations of palonosetron initially declined 
rapidly.  Following  this  decline,  notable  increases  or  secondary  peaks  were  seen  in  some  subjects  at 
approximately two to four hours post-dosing.  
Following  oral  dosing  (Studies  2236,  N  =  29  and  0101,  N  =  24),  mean  palonosetron  Cmax  (0.348  to 
14.1 ng/ml) was achieved between three and six hours after doses ranging from 3.0 µg/kg to 90 µg/kg 
in  healthy  subjects.  The  plasma  Cmax  and  AUC  values  of  palonosetron  increased  with  dose,  but  the 
dose proportionality over the doses tested could only be demonstrated in one study.  
Patients 
In  patients  with  CINV  (studies  2330,  2332  and  2120)  and  patients  with  PONV  (studies  2500  and 
2502),  palonosetron  doses  ranged  from  0.1  to  90  µg/kg  administered  either  intravenously  (studies 
2330, 2120 and 2500) or orally (studies 2332 and 2502).  
Plasma concentrations of palonosetron increased proportionally after i.v. bolus injection in both CINV 
and  PONV  populations.  Tmax  after  i.v.  administration  was  within  the  first  sampling  times  for  most 
patients, although there were individual patients with Tmax values occurring later in the concentration 
versus time profile (see table 7).  
The next table summarises pharmacokinetic results for i.v. palonosetron Phase II studies. The 3 µg/kg 
dose  is  approximately  equivalent  to  the  0.25  mg  fixed  dose,  which  is  the  sole  dose  requested  for 
approval in this application. 
Following  oral  dosing  in  patients,  plasma  concentrations  increased  proportionally,  as  measured  by 
Cmax  and  AUC,  with  a  mean  Tmax  generally  occurring  between  4  and  6  hours  over  the  dose  range 
tested.  
Bioavailability 
No bioavailability studies were submitted. 
Influence of food 
No food effect studies were submitted. 
•  Distribution 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthy volunteers 
The  mean  volume  of  distribution  of  palonosetron  in  healthy  volunteers  (studies  2092,  0100,  2236, 
0101), following oral or i.v administration, ranged between 3.85 l/kg and 12.6 l/kg.  
Patients 
The  mean  volume  of  distribution  of  palonosetron  in  patients  (studies  2330,  2500),  following  i.v 
administration, ranged between 5.96 and 12.5 1/kg.  
Population Pharmacokinetics 
Palonosetron disposition was characterised by a two compartment open model with a median systemic 
clearance estimated at 3.25 l/h and a large volume of the central compartment, estimated to be 632 l.  
The intercompartment clearance and volume of the peripheral compartment were estimated to be 4.91 
l/h  and  1740  l,  respectively,  indicating  extensive  tissue  distribution.  Although  interindividual 
variability  in  clearance  was  large  (88.8%),  none  of  the  covariates  investigated  were  predictive  of 
palonosetron  clearance.  No  effect  of  age,  gender,  race,  co-medications,  or  clinical  chemistries  on 
palonosetron  clearance  was  observed.  Volume  of  distribution  was  associated  with  body  weight  and 
negatively associated with serum albumin concentrations and Karnofsky performance status, although, 
together  all  the  covariates  only  explained  12%  of  the  interindividual  variability  in  volume  of 
distribution.   
Protein Binding 
Binding in human plasma was constant over the concentration range evaluated (5 to 412 ng/ml) and 
averaged approximately 62%. An in vitro study demonstrated non-specific and non-saturable binding 
of palonosetron to plasma proteins. 
•  Elimination 
Metabolism 
The biotransformation of palonosetron has been characterised based on in vitro studies (PALO-98-02: 
CYP450 mediated metabolism of palonosetron; PALO-00-02: identification of the human metabolite 
M4),  and  clinical  studies  (Study  2216:  ADME;  study  PALO-99-39:  CYP2D6  polymorphic 
metabolism) 
Approximately 50% of palonosetron was metabolised by the liver, almost exclusively by the CYP450 
through N-oxidation and monohydroxylation. Oxidation at the nitrogen formed the N-oxide (M9) and 
hydroxylation  formed  the  6-S-hydroxy-palonosetron  (M4).  These  metabolites  had  low  5-HT3 
antagonist activity, approximately 1% of that of the parent compound. Keto-palonosetron (M6) was a 
minor component found in urine and plasma whereas trace amounts of 6-keto-palonosetron (M5) were 
detected only in plasma. 
Oxidation to M9 was dependent on CYP2D6 with contributions from CYP3A4 and CYP1A2. Neither 
palonosetron nor M9 induced cytochrome P450. At high concentrations in vitro, palonosetron was a 
competitive  inhibitor  of  some  cytochrome  isoforms  but  this  was  not  considered  to  be  clinically 
relevant. 
In studies 2092 and 0100 (i.v. administration in healthy volunteers), M9 was not measurable in plasma 
at doses of palonosetron below 10 µg/kg, and in many cases the plasma concentrations at the 10 µg/kg 
dose  level  were  not  quantifiable.  Mean  M9  Cmax  was  similar  in  both  studies  (ranging  from  0.093  to 
0.777 ng/ml), but Tmax generally ranged from approximately 3 to 6 hours. Mean half-life was 19.3 to 
54.3 hours in study 2092 and 24.3 to 37.4 hours in study 0100.  
As with the intravenous route of administration, the proportion of M9 in plasma was small compared 
to palonosetron. The lower range of Tmax was approximately 2 hours in both studies, while the upper 
range varied between 3 hours and over 44 hours. Mean half-life ranged from 25.8 to 35.3 hours.  Mean 
AUC ratios of M9 and palonosetron indicated that a small amount of metabolite was present in plasma 
relative  to  the  parent  compound.  The  percentage  of  administered  palonosetron  excreted  as  M9 
generally decreased with increasing dose levels. 
Considering  the  prolonged  half-lives  in  a  subset  of  patients,  study  PALO-99-39  was  designed  to 
investigate (1) the influence of the metaboliser status on the PK profile of palonosetron and M9, and 
(2)  the  presence  in  human  plasma  and  urine  of  RS-42358  (the  last  intermediate  in  palonosetron 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
synthesis)  and  of  its  N-oxide  metabolite  RS-72033.  This  study  indicated  that  there  was  no  effect  of 
extensive or poor metaboliser status on the pharmacokinetics of palonosetron and M9. Nor RS-42358 
or RS-72033 were detected in plasma or urine after single i.v. dosing of palonosetron 0.75mg. 
Excretion 
Approximately 40% of palonosetron is renally cleared unchanged. 
Following i.v. administration in healthy volunteers (study 2216, N = 6), palonosetron was eliminated 
from the body with an apparent mean plasma elimination half-life of 37.4 hours (mean range 30.8 to 
54.1 hours). The total body clearance of palonosetron was 173 ± 73 ml/min and renal clearance was 53 
± 29 ml/min (studies 2092 and 0100).  
In patients studies, mean i.v. clearance generally ranged between 1.51 ml/min/kg and 2.23 ml/min/kg 
and  did  not  change  with  dose  except  in  the  low-dose  groups  (study  2500),  where  clearance  was 
estimated as less than  1  ml/min/kg (see table 7). Mean half life ranged from 38 to 128 hours. Some 
patients in each trial demonstrated much longer half-lives, in all 114 subjects who provided PK data 
from Phase II trials, 11 exhibited half-lives of greater than 100 hours (ranged from 108 hours to 383 
hours).  
ADME  study  (2216)  investigated  the  routes  and  rates  of  excretion,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  total 
radioactivity, and the metabolic profile in urine and plasma following a single intravenous dose of 10 
µg/kg  [14C]-palonosetron  to  healthy  volunteers.  Palonosetron  represented  the  highest  percentage  of 
radioactivity  in  plasma  (approximately  72  %  in  the  0  to  96 hour  interval).  The  mean  terminal 
elimination  half-life  of  palonosetron  was  37.4  hours.  Transient  and  very  low  concentrations  of 
metabolites M9, M5 and M4 were also detected in plasma, but concentrations were too low to estimate 
pharmacokinetic parameters for these metabolites. 
Excretion  in  urine  was  almost  complete  over  the  0  to  144 hour  interval,  and  83.2  %  of  the 
administered  dose  was  recovered  in  urine  (over  0-  240  hours).  Three  major  radioactive  components 
were detected in urine: palonosetron (39.3 % of the administered  dose),  M9  (12.5 %) and  M4 (10.9 
%). In faeces, recovery was 3.38 %.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
In  patients,  plasma  concentrations  of  palonosetron  increased  proportionally  after  intravenous  bolus 
injection or after oral administration in both CINV and PONV populations (studies 2330, 2332; 2500, 
2502). Similar results were observed in healthy volunteers. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Mean pharmacokinetic parameters of palonosetron after a single i.v. dose of 0.1 to 90 µg/kg  
Dose a (µg/kg) 
Study 2330 (n=37, CINV) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
0.88 
5.63 b 
13.0 b 
35.7 
336 
1 (n=6) 
3 (n=6)b 
10 (n=5) 
30 (n=8) 
90 (n=12) 
Tmax 
(hr) 
0.150 
0.144 
0.827 
0.360 
0.564 
Study 2500 (n=29, PONV) 
0.1 (n=4) 
0.3 (n=7) d 
1 (n=5) 
0.923 
4.28 
1.87 
0.113 
0.0452 
0.0333 
t1/2 
hr) 
128 c 
56.4 c 
49.8 
86.4 
43.7 
38.0 
91.7 
110 
Total AUC 
(ng⋅hr/ml) 
13.8c 
35.8 c 
81.8 
348 
957 
CL 
(ml/min/kg) 
1.51 c 
1.66 c 
2.23 
2.13 
1.90 
5.23 
23.6 
21.3 
0.320 
0.659 
1.07 
Vd 
(l/kg) 
12.5 c 
7.91c 
9.56 
9.18 
6.83 
1.07 
5.96 
6.68 
7.89 
29.6 
0.0306 
0.0190 
3 (n=6) 
30 (n=7) 
51.9 
53.7 
Abbreviations: a:3 µg/kg dose is approximately equivalent to the 0.25 mg fixed dose; b: Mean ± SD for 3 µg/kg 
and 10 µg/kg dose groups are 5.63 ± 5.48 ng/ml and 13.0 ± 20.1 ng/ml, respectively; c: n = 5;  d Mean value is 
skewed by a single patient with extremely high concentrations; AUC = area under the concentration versus time 
profile; Cmax = maximum concentration in a plasma concentration versus time profile; CL = clearance, t1/2 = 
elimination half-life, Tmax= time of maximum concentration in a plasma concentration versus time profile, Vd = 
volume of distribution. 
8.20 
10.0 
1.83 
2.14 
28.4 
302 
Repeat  doses  data  were  provided  from  a  phase  I  (PALO-02-12)  and  a  phase  II  (2330:  see  dose 
response  study  description  and  table  7)  clinical  trial,  as  well  as  from  pharmacokinetic  simulations 
based on data derived from these two studies. 
Study PALO-02-12 
This  was  a  repeated-dose,  double-blind  study  in  which  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive 
intravenous bolus of palonosetron 0.25 mg or placebo intravenously, once daily, on 3 consecutive days 
(N = 12 and 4, respectively).  
Plasma  drug  concentrations  declined  in  a  biphasic  manner,  with  a  rapid  initial  distribution  phase 
followed by a slower elimination phase. Palonosetron was measurable in the plasma 168 hours after 
the  third  administration.  The  mean  t1/2  was  42.8  hours.  A  2.1-fold  accumulation  of  drug  in  plasma 
occurred after 3 daily administrations (accumulation ratio of day 3 to day 1 AUC(0–24)  values), which 
was consistent with the long plasma elimination half-life. 
Pharmacokinetic Simulations 
- Three consecutive daily doses: 
This simulation included an extreme case with t1/2 of 350 hours receiving 3 daily doses (representing 
an  average  half-life  between  the  two  longest  observations  seen  in  Phase  I  [309  hours]  and  Phase  II 
[383 hours] studies), simulations for two data sets. 
For  the  extreme  case  scenarios  in  subjects  with  a  terminal  half-life  of  350  hours  receiving  three 
consecutive daily doses, the AUC0-∞ values were 596 µg·h/L and 806 µg·h/L. These values were lower 
than the mean value (957 µg·h/L) obtained after one single 90 µg/kg dose in study 2330.  
The  mean  total  AUC0-∞  for  the  3  days  in  healthy  volunteers  participating  in  PALO-02-12  was 
estimated  at  77  µg·h/L  (mean  half-life  42  hours).  This  AUC  value  was  approximately  8-fold  lower 
than  the  lowest  simulated  value  and  11-fold  lower  than  the  highest  simulated  value  in  a  theoretical 
subject with a 350-hour half-life.  
The AUC0-∞ estimations in the extreme case scenarios were obtained over the dosing interval plus the 
time of 4 half-life values and extrapolated to infinity. The total time span for exposure was thus more 
than 60 days. For the highest simulated AUC0-∞ value, this equals an estimated AUC per each 24 hours 
exposure  of  approximately  13  µg·h/L,  which  is  lower  than  the  estimated  daily  exposure  in  study 
PALO-02-12. 
Cmax values for the simulated extreme case (2697 ng/L and 2983 ng/L) are within the range of those 
observed for subjects on day 3 in study PALO-02-12 (mean Cmax value; 2430 ng/L, range 671 ng/L – 
3780 ng/L).   
24 
 
   
 
- Multiple cycle exposure (once weekly): 
This simulation included multiple cycle chemotherapy with weekly intervals for 5 consecutive weeks 
(upper end of the amount of cycles expected) using both the extreme case (t1/2 = 350 hours) and the 
expected case (t1/2 = 40 hours), simulations for two data sets each.   
For the extreme cases (half-life of 350 hours), the total drug exposure (AUC0-∞) was calculated as 993 
µg·h/L  and  1344  µg·h/L  for  each  representative  subject.  These  values  were  lower  than  the  highest 
observed  systemic  exposure  in  one  patient  after  the  administration  of  90  µg/kg  (i.e.  1721  µg·h/L) 
whose half-life was 70 hours (study 2330). The adverse event profile for the subject with the highest 
exposure, however, was unremarkable. The 5 consecutive week dosing schedule plus the washout time 
results  in  approximately  12  weeks  (87  days)  of  exposure  for  the  most  extreme  cases,  and  exposure 
based on a per day calculation which are less than that observed in study PALO-02-12.  
In the same model, for a subject with a 40-hour half-life, the simulated total drug exposure was 146 
µg·h/L  and  187  µg·h/L  for  the  two  representative  profiles.  This  exposure  was  likely  to  occur  in 
approximately  90% of the patients and it is about 5-7-fold lower than  that  observed  for the extreme 
long half-live cases.  
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
The  influence  of  renal  impairment  was  studied  in  subjects  with  mild  to  severe  renal  impairment 
(PALO-99-35). This study was a Phase I, open-label, single dose, parallel group study to evaluate the 
pharmacokinetics  of  palonosetron  and  M9  in  subjects  (N  =  25)  with  mild  to  moderate  (Clcr  30-80 
ml/min; N = 9) and  severe (Clcr 10-29 ml/min; N = 7) renal impairment (RI) after receiving a single 
intravenous dose of 0.75 mg administered as bolus over 30 seconds. The reference group consisted of 
healthy volunteers (N = 9), with a creatinine clearance of > 80 ml/min.  
The mean AUC0-∞ for healthy subjects (83.8 h·µg/L) was comparable to those subjects with mild (88.8 
h·µg/L)  or  moderate  (80.9  h·µg/L)  renal  failure.  Subjects  with  severe  renal  failure  had  a  mean 
systemic exposure of 133.6 h·µg/L (range of 42.2 to 228.9 h·µg/L).  
Impaired liver function 
A  Phase  I,  open-label,  single  dose,  parallel  group  study  was  conducted  in  24  patients  to  assess  the 
effects  of  varying  degrees  of  hepatic  impairment  (8  patients  per  Child-Pugh  group)  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of palonosetron and M9 in comparison to healthy subjects (PALO-99-51). Patients 
received a single i.v. dose of 0.75 mg palonosetron. The control group consisted of 9 healthy subjects 
treated in  study PALO-99-35 (PK in renal impairment).  
Hepatic impairment was associated with significantly lower palonosetron Cmax values, particularly in 
subjects  with  severe  impairment.  Plasma  concentration  curves  in  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment 
were similar to those in healthy subjects, but several curves were notably different. Instead of an initial 
decline in the plasma concentrations, an initial rise was seen from 15 minutes onward, with Cmax being 
reached between 0.5 and 2 hours after i.v. dosing. Secondary peaks after an initial rapid decline were 
seen  in  several  healthy  subjects,  generally  limited  to  a  slight  increase  in  the  plasma  concentration 
followed by a further decline. The terminal elimination half-life tended to be longer in the patient with 
moderate  and  severe  hepatic  impairment,  also  the  distribution  volume  was  clearly  higher  in  severe 
hepatic impairment group. 
Palonosetron AUC0-∞ and total body clearance values were similar in impaired and healthy subjects. 
For the M9 metabolite, the mean Cmax and AUC0-tlast values were decreased with moderate and severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Excretion  of  palonosetron  was  similar  in  all  groups.  The  excretion  of  M9  was  slightly  higher  in  the 
healthy volunteers than in patients with hepatic impairment, although no clear relation between the M9 
excretion and degree of hepatic impairment was apparent. Excretion of M9 continued for several days 
after  the  time  of  the  last  measurable  plasma  concentration,  and  was  complete  at  240  hours  in 
approximately one third of the study participants. The sum of palonosetron and M9 recoveries ranged 
between 37 % and 50 % of the dose.  
Gender 
In the population pharmacokinetic study, no effect of gender on palonosetron clearance was observed.  
25 
 
 
 
 
Race 
No formal pharmacokinetic study was conducted in different ethnic groups. Data were gained from the 
population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  where  it  was  shown  that  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were 
similar in subjects of Caucasian and Hispanic origin. However, the volume of the central compartment 
was  increased  by  20%  in  Caucasians  relative  to  other  races.  Race  had  no  effect  on  clearance.  No 
conclusion on PK in Black or Asian races could be made due to the limited number of patients. 
Weight 
Volume  of  distribution  was  correlated  with  weight  in  the  population  PK/PD  analyses.  However, 
overall this did not account for much of the inter-individual variability in clearance which was large at 
88.8%. 
Elderly 
No  formal  pharmacokinetic  study  was  conducted  in  the  elderly.  In  the  population  pharmacokinetic 
analyses,  pharmacokinetic parameters were similar in subjects aged 65 years or more (65 to 91 years) 
and younger subjects (18 to 64 years).  
Children 
No formal pharmacokinetic study was conducted in the children. A Phase III trial (study PALO-99-07) 
to assess the safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of single i.v. 3 or 10 µg/kg dose of palonosetron in 
paediatric patients receiving moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy was ongoing at the time 
of the assessment of this MAA. The planned number of subjects was 72. The completion of this study 
was foreseen during year 2005.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro 
Incubations  of  palonosetron  with  pooled  human  liver  microsomes  in  the  presence  and  absence  of 
palonosetron  showed  that  palonosetron  was  a  competitive  inhibitor  of  the  same  three  isozymes 
involved  in  its  metabolism  (CYP2D6,  CYP3A4  and  CYP1A2).    However,  inhibition  constants  (Ki) 
indicated  that  palonosetron  has  no  inhibitory  potential  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations.  Lastly, 
induction  experiments  with  fresh  human  hepatocytes  demonstrated  that  palonosetron  did  not  induce 
cytochrome P450 isozymes at clinically relevant concentrations. 
In vivo 
A study (PALO-99-34; N = 11) has been conducted to evaluate potential pharmacokinetic interactions 
between a single i.v. dose of palonosetron and steady state concantration of oral metoclopramide. No 
differences  were  observed  in  palonosetron  or  M9  plasma  concentrations  with  or  without 
metoclopramide.  
In  controlled  clinical  trials,  palonosetron  has  been  administered  with  corticosteroids,  analgesics, 
antiemetics, antinauseants, antispasmodics and anticholinergic agents. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
No clinical pharmacodynamic have been submitted.  
•  Primary pharmacology 
No primary pharmacology have been submitted. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Secondary pharmacology 
Cardiovacular pharmacology 
Evaluation of ECG tracings from phase I and II clinical trials have been submitted.  
A  confirmatory  population  pharmacodynamic  evaluation  was  performed  in  phase  III  trials.  Patients 
received either  palonosetron 0.25 mg (N = 605) or 0.75 mg (N = 610), ondansetron 32 mg (N = 410), 
or dolasetron 100mg (N = 194). The integrated analysis, the effect on the QTc parameter by Bazett or 
Fredericia correction was 2 msec at both palonosetron doses. No patients had more 60 msec change 
from baseline. 
An integration of selected phase I, II and III trials (studies 2236, 0101, 2216, 2092, 0100, 2332, 2330, 
PALO-99-03, PALO-99-04, PALO-99-05) was performed. The results of QT/QTc are shown in table 8.  
Table 8: QT/QTc from phase I, II and III trials (mean changes from baseline) 
Palonosetron doses 
Active comparator 
Palonosetron 
Palonosetron 
Palonosetron 
Palonosetron 
Ondansetron 
Dolasetron 
< 0.25 mg 
0.25 mg 
0.75 mg 
> 0.75 mg 
32 mg 
100 mg 
N 
QT, msec 
QTcB, msec 
59 
-1 
4 
667 
3 
1 
678 
3 
2 
181 
1 
2 
404 
5 
4 
QTcF, msec 
Abbreviations: msec = milliseconds; N = number of subjects with data at least one tracing;  
QTcF = QT interval corrected by Fridericia formula; QTcB = QT interval corrected by Bazett formula 
2 
2 
3 
2 
5 
192 
6 
5 
5 
The mean change identified was about 2–3 msec (QTcF). The active controls demonstrate a consistent 
QTcF change from baseline of 5 msec, which was about two-fold greater than the 2.5 msec change on 
palonosetron.  
Holter monitoring was collected in a subset of subjects at selected centres in the pivotal phase 3 trials 
by  which  an  attempt  was  made  to  determine  if  any  arrhythmias  in  the  therapeutic  arms  could  be 
identified. The evaluable Holter data (143 patients on palonosetron and 50 patients on ondansetron or 
dolasetron) did not provide any signal that palonosetron induces clinically relevant supraventricular or 
ventricular arrhythmias, including Torsades des Pointes, or atrio-ventricular conduction defects. 
Gastrointestinal pharmacology 
No clinical studies have specifically investigated the effect of palonosetron on the gastrointestinal tract.   
Discussion on Pharmacokinetics / Pharmacodynamics 
Plasma  kinetics  in  man  following  intravenous  treatment  were  determined  using  similar  methods  to 
those used in animals treated intravenously. The data obtained differed significantly from those in any 
of the animal species, principally due to a much slower clearance and a considerably greater half-life 
with a consequently disproportionately higher AUC. 
The  clinical  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  palonosetron  was  characterised  by  a  rapid  initial  decline  of 
plasma  concentration  following  single  intravenous  doses,  with  secondary  peaks  observed  in  some 
subjects  approximately  two  to  four  hours  after  dosing.  This  profile  was  consistent  with  a  possible 
entero-hepatic  recycling.  The  applicant  has  not  specifically  evaluated  these  mechanisms  either  in 
animal models or in humans, since this was not expected to contribute to the overall exposure or to be 
clinically relevant.  
After single intravenous dosing, AUC and Cmax increased almost dose proportional over the dose range 
of  0.3  to  90  µg/kg.  Palonosetron  has  a  half-life  considerably  longer  than  that  of  other  5-HT3 
antagonists  (approximately 40 hours  compared to 3-12 hours). Furthermore, in some  patients (about 
10%), the half-life was exceptionally long (up to 300 hours). The wide inter-individual variability in 
clearance and half-lives was not considered to have an impact on clinical efficacy and safety. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  from  studies  PALO-02-12,  2330  and  from  a  number  of  PK  simulations,  accumulation  of 
palonosetron  occurred  with  daily  doses  of  0.25  mg.  While  high  exposure  was  shown  to  be  safe  and 
well tolerated, the SPC has been amended to advise against repeat dosing within 7 days. 
The main metabolites M9 and M4 had low 5-HT3 antagonist activity (approximately 1% of that of the 
parent compound) and therefore were considered to be clinically inactive.  
Hepatic  impairment  did  not  significantly  affect  total  body  clearance  of  palonosetron  compared  to 
healthy  subjects.  There  was  a  slight  trend  towards  higher  AUC  with  the  highest  Child-Pugh  scores, 
however,  marked  variability  was  observed  within  each  sub-category  of  the  subjects  with  hepatic 
impairment.  Therefore,  while  the  terminal  elimination  half-life  and  mean  systemic  exposure  of 
palonosetron  was  increased  in  subjects  with  severe  hepatic  impairment,  no  dose  adjustment  is 
necessary for patients with impaired hepatic function (see SPC section 5.2). 
No  significant  effect  on  palonosetron  clearance  when  co-administered  with  CYP2D6  inducers 
(dexametasone  and  rifampicine)  and  inhibitors  (including  amiodarone,  celecoxib,  chlorpromazine, 
cimetidine, doxorubicine, fluoxetine, haloperidol, paroxetine, quinidine, ranitidine, ritonavir, sertraline 
or terbinafine) was shown (see SPC section 4.5).  
Approximately  40%  of  palonosetron  was  renally  cleared  unchanged.  In  the  faeces  recovery  was 
around 3% of the dose over the interval 0 to 144 hours. 
Age, gender, weight, race had no clinically relevant influence on the pharmacokinetics of palonosetron 
according  to  pharmacokinetic  population  study.  No  formal  pharmacokinetic  study  was  conducted  in 
elderly  or  in  children  (see  SPC  section  5.2).  No  dosage  adjustment  is  necessary  for  the  elderly  (see 
SPC section 4.2). 
AUC  versus  creatinine  clearance  as  a  continuous  variable  showed,  as  would  be  predicted  from  the 
high  volume  of  distribution  of  palonosetron,  no  obvious  influence  of  reduced  renal  function  on  the 
systemic exposure of palonosetron following an i.v. dose. Although mean AUC0-∞ appeared higher in 
subjects  with  severe  renal  impairment,  no  dose  reduction  was  considered  necessary  in  renal 
insufficiency patients (see SPC section 4.2). 
No studies have been performed in patients with end stage renal disease requiring dialysis (see SPC 
section  4.2).  However,  due  to  the  large  volume  of  distribution  and  relatively  equal  contribution  of 
hepatic metabolism and renal elimination of palonosetron, dialysis is not likely to affect the clearance 
of palonosetron, and therefore is unlikely to be an effective treatment for palonosetron overdosage (see 
SPC section 4.9).  
No pharmacokinetic data were available in paediatric patients at the time of the assessment. The use of 
palonosetron in patients under 18 years of age is not recommended until further data become available 
(see SPC section 4.2 and post-approval commitments on study PALO-99-07).  
There  is  no  experience  of  palonosetron  in  human  pregnancy  so  palonosetron  should  not  be  used  in 
pregnant women unless it is considered essential by the physician (see SPC section 4.6). 
The  interaction  potential  of  palonosetron  has  been  appropriately  studied  in  vitro.  At  high 
concentrations  in  vitro,  palonosetron  was  a  competitive  inhibitor  of  some  cytochrome  isoforms 
(CYP2D6, 1A2 and 3A). Since in vivo concentrations of palonosetron were much lower, the inhibition 
potential  of  palonosetron  has  no  clinical  implications  regarding  cytochrome  P450.  In  vitro, 
palonosetron was not shown to be an inducer of the activity of CYP2D6, CYP1A2, or CYP3A4/5. 
No  significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  was  shown  between  a  single  intravenous  dose  of 
palonosetron and steady state oral metoclopramide. Concomitant administration of medicinal products 
known  to  inhibit  the  primary  mechanisms  of  hepatic  elimination  (including  cimetidine  and 
haloperidol)  is  not  expected  to  alter  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  palonosetron.  Lorazepam  is 
metabolized  almost  entirely  by conjugation  and  a  significant  interaction  is  considered  unlikely,  as  it 
has no significant effects on the metabolic pathway of palonosetron. 
Like  other  5-HT3  antagonists,  palonosetron  possesses  the  ability  to  block  ion  channels  involved  in 
ventricular de- and re-polarisation and to prolong action potential duration [19, 26-29]. To address the 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety  concerns  clinically  relevant  to  the  QTc  prolongation  derived  from  a  few  preclinical  data,  the 
results of the evaluation of ECG tracings from Phase I and II clinical trials have been submitted. No 
evidence of any cardiac safety risk was observed.  
Constipation  is  a  typical  adverse  event  of  5-HT3  receptor  antagonists.  However,  no  clinical  studies 
have investigated the effect of palonosetron on the gastrointestinal tract. The SPC has been amended 
to address this issue, based on the non-clinical findings with palonosetron and other drugs of this class, 
and based on the frequency of constipation, as an adverse effect in clinical studies. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
The 0.25 mg palonosetron dose represented the lowest dose tested to reach the efficacy plateau, well 
known for this class of agent [30, 31] and it was considered adequate throughout the 120-hour period. 
Additional pharmacodynamic studies were not needed given the non-clinical and clinical experience. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  demonstration  of  clinical  efficacy  relied  on  three  main  clinical  trials  (studies  PALO-99-03, 
PALO-99-04, PALO-99-05), and supportive data from Study 2330 (study PALO-00-01) and a trial of 
palonosetron after repeated cycles (study PALO-99-06). 
•  Dose response studies 
Study 2330: Study 2330 was a phase II randomized, double blind, multicenter, dose-ranging efficacy, 
safety and pharmacokinetic study that used the i.v. route for palonosetron in the patients with CINV. 
The  study  involved  23  centres  in  the  United  States  and  a  total  of  161  patients  were  enrolled.  One-
hundred and forty-eight patients were eligible for the primary analysis of efficacy. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  complete  response  (CR),  defined  as  no  emetic  episodes  and  no 
rescue medication during the first 24 hours after administration of chemotherapy. 
The  original  protocol called for patients to receive  one  of  the  following  doses:  0.3,  1,  3, 10, and 30 
µg/kg. Due to the lack of efficacy, the protocol was firstly amended to discontinue the lowest dose and 
secondly  to  add  a  higher  dose  (90  microg/kg.).  The  randomisation  code  was  not  broken.  No 
adjustment of the sample was performed.  The results relevant to the lowest dose group 0.3 µg/kg were 
combined with those of the 1 µg/kg group. Response was 24 %, 46%, 40%, 50% and 46% for the 0.3-
1, 3, 10, 30 and 90 µg/kg dose groups respectively.  
An  analysis  of  the  efficacy  data  obtained  from  study 2330  compared  to  a  historical  placebo  control 
showed  that  palonosetron  doses  of  3 to  90 µg/kg,  as  well  as  the  corresponding  converted  doses  of 
0.25 to 6 mg, were significantly superior to the historical placebo group. 
•  Main studies 
PALO-99-03 
PALO-99-03  was  a  three-arm  double-blind  multicentre  randomised  active-controlled  clinical  trial  of 
single i.v. doses of palonosetron 0.25 mg or  0.75 mg, vs. ondansetron 32 mg i.v., for the prevention of 
moderately emetogenic CINV. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The  main  inclusion  criteria  were:  age  ≥  18  years  old  with  histologically  and/or  cytologically  confirmed 
malignant disease, Karnofsky PS ≥ 50 %, scheduled to receive at least one of the following agents or regimens 
on  day  1:  carboplatin,  epirubicin,  idarubicin,  ifosfamide,  irinotecan,  mitoxantrone,  methotrexate  >250  mg/m2, 
cyclophosphamide  <1500  mg/m2,  doxorubicin  >25  mg/m2,  or  cisplatin  ≤  50  mg/m2  (over  1  to  4  hours).  The 
administration  of  the  main  emetogenic  agent  following  the  classification  probodsed  by  Hesketh  et  al.  [32]  on 
study day 1 should not extend beyond 4 hours. The main criteria for exclusion were use of investigational drugs 
within 30 days, use  of  any drug  with potential  antiemetic efficacy within  24 hours of the  start of  treatment or 
scheduled to receive any such drug until day 5 of the study, experience of NCI CTC grade 2 or 3 nausea within 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 hours preceding chemotherapy, ongoing vomiting from any organic etiology, experience of nausea (moderate 
to severe) or vomiting following any previous chemotherapy. Patients who were scheduled to receive any dose 
of nitrogen mustards, dacarbazine or streptozocine, lomustine >60 mg/m2, carmustine >250 mg/m2 or any other 
chemotherapeutic agent with an emetogenicity level 5 were not eligible. Also, patients scheduled to receive any 
chemotherapeutic  agent  with  an  emetogenicity  level  3  or  higher,  or  scheduled  to  receive  radiotherapy  of  the 
upper abdomen or cranium, during days 2 to 6 were not eligible. Only patients having provided a signed written 
informed consent were eligible. 
Treatments 
Patients  randomised 
to  palonosetron  0.25 mg,  or  0.75 mg  were  administered  palonosteron 
intravenously  as  a  30  second  bolus,  followed  by  a  15  minutes  infusion  of  0.9%  saline.  Patients 
randomised to receive ondansetron were administered 0.9% saline intravenously as a 30 second bolus, 
followed  by  ondansetron  32 mg  administered  intravenously  over  15  minutes.  Rescue  medication  for 
the  treatment  of  nausea  and  vomiting  after  chemotherapy,  with  the  exception  of  study  drugs,  was 
permitted  at  the  investigator's  discretion.  The  study  drug  was  administered  30  minutes  prior  to 
chemotherapy. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to compare the efficacy of single-doses of palonosetron 0.25 or 0.75 mg, to 
ondansetron 32 mg i.v. in preventing moderately emetogenic CINV. The secondary objectives were to 
evaluate the safety and tolerability of palonosetron, and the effect of anti-emetic control on quality of 
life. 
Outcomes / endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  complete  response  (CR)  during  the  first  24  hours  after 
administration of chemotherapy. CR was defined as no emetic episodes and no rescue medication. An 
emetic episode was defined as one occurrence of vomiting or a sequence of occurrences in very close 
succession not relieved by a period of relaxation, any number of occurrences of unproductive emesis 
(retches)  in  a  unique  5-minute  period,  or  an  episode  of  retching  of  less  than  5  minutes  duration 
combined  with  vomiting  not  relieved  by  a  period  of  relaxation.  Relaxation  between  episodes  was 
defined  as  a  period  of  at  least  1  minute.  Diaries  were  used  to  record  emetic  episodes,  use  of  rescue 
medication and severity of nausea, at 24-hour intervals for up to 120 hours. 
Secondary endpoints were the proportion of patients considered to have achieved a CR during the 24 
to 120 hour time period (day 2 to 5), during the 0 to 48, 0 to 72, 0 to 96 and 0 to 120 hour period of 
time (days 1 to 2, 1 to 3, 1 to 4 and 1 to 5, respectively) and during the 24 to 48, 48 to 72, 72 to 96 and 
96 to 120 hour time period (days 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively); the proportion of patients considered to 
have  achieved  complete  control  (CC),  defined  as  no  emetic  episode,  no  rescue  medication  and  only 
mild or no nausea daily for the 0 to 120 hours interval and for the 0 to 48, 0 to 72 and 0 to 96 and 0 to 
120  hours  time  period;  time  to  treatment  failure  (based  on  time  to  first  emetic  episode  or  time  to 
rescue medication, whichever occurred first); the number of emetic episodes daily for the 0-120 hour 
interval and for the overall 0-120 hour interval (study day 1 to 5); the time to first emetic episode; time 
to administration and need for rescue medication. Severity of nausea was measured by patients using 
the  4-point  Likert  scale  (none,  mild,  moderate,  severe),  daily  for  the  0  to  120  hour  interval.  Patient 
global satisfaction with anti-emetic therapy was measured using a visual analogue scale (VAS, from 0 
“not at all satisfied” to 100 “totally satisfied”), daily for the 0 to 120 hour interval. Quality of life was 
measured using a modified [33] Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire for the first 24 
hour time period and the standard FLIE for the 24 to 96 hour time period [34]. 
Sample size 
A  sample  size  of  approximately  567  patients  (189  patients  per  arm)  was  calculated  based  on  an 
assumed  response  rate  of  70%,  a  difference  of  no  more  than  15%  in  CR  proportion,  and  setting 
α=0.0125  (i.e.  α=0.025/2  to  adjust  for  the  two  treatment  comparisons)  for  a  one-sided  test  of 
equivalence, 80% power for each comparison, and a 5% dropout. 
Randomisation 
Randomization (as amended) was stratified by gender, previous chemotherapy history (naive v. non-
naive),  using  an  adaptive  dynamic  method  (minimisation).  Use  of  i.v.  dexamethasone  was  added 
through an amendment as a stratification factor at randomization but the amendment only came into 
effect after recruitment had been completed. 
30 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
The trial was double-blind. 
Statistical methods 
The  trial  was  designed  to  show  non-inferiority  of  at  least  one  dose  of  palonosetron  to  active 
comparator  with  respect  to  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint.  The  non-inferiority  margin  was  chosen 
based  on  a  literature  based  meta-analysis  of  trials  with  approved  antiemetics  or  placebo.  The  meta-
analysis was also used to identify important prognostic factors, and to provide a historical comparison 
with placebo for validating the effect observed for the active control arm (data not shown). 
To test this hypothesis, the lower bound of a two-sided 97.5% confidence interval for the difference in 
proportions  was  used.  The  confidence  interval  was  calculated  using  approximate  methods  [33]. 
Concerning  secondary  endpoints,  differences  in  the  number  of  emetic  episodes,  severity  of  nausea, 
patient global satisfaction, and quality of life were explored using standard non-parametric techniques 
(Kruskal-Wallis and Wilcoxon tests). Differences in time to first emetic episode were explored using 
the  log-rank  test.  Additional  exploratory  analyses  were  conducted  using  standard  methodology 
(subgroup analysis, logistic regression). 
The  population for the primary efficacy analysis (so-called “intention-to-treat” population, ITT) was 
defined  as  all  randomized  patients  who  received  chemotherapy  and  study  medication,  according  to 
randomized treatment (regardless of actual treatment received). A “per-protocol” (PP) population was 
defined  as  all  patients  who  completed  the  study  on  day 1  and  who  were  compliant  with  the  study 
protocol (absence of major protocol violations). 
RESULTS  
Participant flow and recruitment  
The participants’ flow is shown in figure 2. A total of 570 patients were randomised, with 328 (58%) 
patients  coming  from  23  institutions  from  Russia,  and  the  remaining  from  35  institutions  from 
Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. Overall, 563 (99%) patients were treated 
with  study  medication  (n=  189,  189,  and  185  for  palonosetron  0.25  mg,  0.75  mg,  and  ondansetron, 
respectively). Three patients were randomised to palonosetron but received ondansetron instead, one 
patient was randomised to ondansetron but received palonosetron, and one patient was randomised to 
palonosetron  0.75  mg  but  received  0.25  mg.  The  total  number  of  patients  with  major  protocol 
violations  was  17  (8.9%),  15  (7.9%)  and  14  (7.4%),  for  palonosetron  0.25,  0.75  and  ondansetron, 
respectively. The most frequent violation was intake of rescue medication before first emetic epsode 
on day 1 (n=11, 10 and 6 patients, respectively). 
Figure 2. Participants’ flow (Study PALO-99-03) 
N=570
Randomized
Palonosetron 0.25 mg
n=192
Palonosetron 0.75 mg
n=190
Ondansetron 32 mg
n=188
Treated n=189
Treated n=189
Treated n=185
Completed n= 188
Completed n=187
Completed n=183
Drop-out n= 1
(patient decision)
Drop-out n=2
(patient decision AE)
Drop-out n=2
(patient decision, SAE)
Not treated n=3
Not treated n=1
Not treated n=3
Conduct of the study 
There  were  6  protocol  amendments,  as  well  as  changes  too  the  statistical  analysis  plan.  Concerning 
efficacy,  this  included  changes  to  the  eligibility  criteria,  definition  of  the  primary  endpoint  and 
populations for analysis (ITT population to be analysed according to randomized treatment, regardless 
of  actual  treatment  received;  PP  population  to  exclude  all  patients  who  did  not  receive  randomized 
treatment), handling of missing data, chemotherapy administration and emetogenicity, randomization 
method,  use  of  concomitant  medications,  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  and  analysis  methods.  After 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
unblinding changes included some changes to the statistical analyses of secondary endpoints (PALO-
99-03, 05). 
Baseline data 
Demographic and baseline disease characteristics are shown in tables 9 - 10. The majority of patients 
(>98%) were Caucasians. 
Numbers analysed 
The  ITT  cohort  comprised  563 patients    (palonosetron  0.25  mg  and  0.75  mg,  189  subjects  each; 
ondansetron 32 mg, 185 subjects). The PP cohort comprised 517 patients  (N=172, 174, and 171 for 
palonosetron 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg, and ondansetron 32 mg, respectively). 
Table 9. Demographic and baseline patient characteristics for the ITT population (study PALO-99-03) 
Gender No. (%) 
Age 
CT history No. (%) 
Male  
Female 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
Naïve 
Non-naïve 
impairment  No. 
Renal 
(%) 
Hepatic  impairment  No. 
(%) 
Cardiac    impairment  No. 
(%) 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Karnofsky PS 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
Palonosetron 
Palonosetron 
Ondansetron 
0.25 mg 
N=189 
0.75 mg 
N=189 
32 mg 
N=185 
54 (28.6) 
135 (71.4) 
51 (27.0) 
138 (73.0) 
52 (28.1) 
133 (71.9) 
56.1 
57.0 
27, 82 
76 (40.2) 
113 (59.8) 
14 (7.4) 
175 (92.6) 
27 (14.3) 
162 (85.7) 
50 (26.5) 
139 (73.5) 
88.9 
90.0 
54.8 
55.0 
29, 77 
80 (42.3) 
109 (57.7) 
19 (10.1) 
170 (89.9) 
27 (14.3) 
162 (85.7) 
47 (24.9) 
142 (75.1) 
89.5 
90.0 
55.3 
56.0 
26-81 
78 (42.2) 
107 (57.8) 
17 (9.2) 
168 (90.8) 
24 (13.0) 
161 (87.0) 
55 (29.7) 
130 (70.3) 
88.5 
90.0 
50-100 
50-100 
50-100 
Primary cancer (multiple 
primaries possible) 
114 (60.3) 
14 (7.4) 
18 (9.5) 
7 (3.7) 
6 (3.2) 
6 (3.2) 
10 (5.3) 
Abbreviations: a: includes all type of lung cancer (such as bronchial carcinoma or pulmonary carcinoma) excluding SCLC 
and NSCLC; CT: chemotherapy; PS: performance status; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; SCLC: small cell lung cancer; 
Other: includes bladder cancer, Hodgkin’s disease, ovarian cancer and bile duct cancer. 
Breast 
Lung 
Colon/rectum 
SCLC 
Gastric 
Prostate 
Other 
103 (54.5) 
11 (5.8) 
13 (6.9) 
9 (4.8) 
6 (3.2)  
1 (.5) 
20 (10.6) 
105 (56.8) 
18 (9.7) 
11 (5.9) 
3 (1.6) 
6 (3.2) 
3 (1.6) 
22 (11.9) 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Concomitant CT treatment administered on study day 1 for the ITT population  
               (study PALO-99-03) 
Substance 
Palonosetron  
0.25 mg 
N=189 
No. (%) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
Palonosteron 
0.75 mg 
N=189 
No. (%) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
Ondansetron 
32 mg 
N=185 
No. (%) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
Cyclophosphamide 
Doxorubicin 
Cisplatin 
Methotrexate 
Carboplatin  
Epirubuicin 
Irinotecan 
Ifosfamide 
Mitoxantrone 
119 (63.0) 
97 (51.3) 
36 (19.0) 
23 (12.2) 
15 (7.9) 
13 (6.9) 
10 (5.3) 
2 (1.1) 
1 (0.5) 
500 
50 
37 
40 
290 
70 
180 
4000 
10 
120 (63.5) 
87 (46.0) 
33 (17.5) 
32 (16.9) 
25 (13.2) 
17 (9.0) 
8 (4.2) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.5) 
555 
50 
36 
30 
300 
60 
113 
- 
12 
117 (63.2) 
87 (47.0) 
31 (16.8) 
36 (19.5) 
25 (13.5) 
14 (7.6) 
8 (4.3) 
2 (1.1) 
3 (1.6) 
560 
50 
29 
40 
300 
80 
153 
2852 
8 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  results  of  the  primary  analysis  are shown  in  table  11  for  the  ITT  and  the  PP  populations.  Non-
inferiority  of  both  palonosetron  doses  compared  to  ondansetron  was  shown.  In  secondary  analyses, 
non-inferiority of both doses of palonosetron to ondansetron for CR was demonstrated for all daily and 
cumulative  time  periods  during  the  study.  Palonosetron  0.25 mg  was  superior  to  ondansetron  with 
regard to CR on Days 1, 2, 3, and 4 and for each cumulative time period (i.e., 24 to 120, 0 to 48, 0 to 
72, 0 to 96, and 0 to 120 hours). Superiority of palonosetron 0.25 mg to 0.75 mg was demonstrated for 
CR rates on day 2 and during the cumulative time periods 0 to 48 hours, 0 to 72 hours, 0 to 96 hours, 
and 0 to 120 hours. 
A significant difference among the three treatment  arms  was  observed in terms of time to treatment 
failure (first quartile 46.5, 21.0, and 19.5 hours, for palonosetron 0.25 mg, palonosetron 0.75 mg, and 
ondansetron,  respectively,  log-rank  P=0.002,  ITT  population).  Pairwise  comparisons  showed  a 
statistically significant difference between palonosetron 0.25 mg  v. ondansetron, and between the two 
palonosetron groups. 
No  significant  differences  were  observed  among  the  three  treatment  arms  for  the  time  to  first 
administration of rescue medication. 
Concerning the number of emetic episodes, more patients in the palonosetron 0.25 mg group had no 
emetic episodes on day 1, compared to the two other groups, respectively (85.2%, 77.8% and 71.4% 
for  palonosetron  0.25  mg,  palonosetron  0.75  mg,  and  ondansetron  32  mg,  respectively,  in  the  ITT 
population). A similar effect was observed on days 2 and 3 (87.8%, 75.7%, 69.7%, and 89.9%, 84.1%, 
74.6%,  for  the  three  treatment  arms  on  day  2  and  3,  respectively).  No  important  differences  were 
observed between treatment arms on days 4 and 5. Overall (days 1 to 5), palonosetron 0.25mg had a 
significantly lower number of emetic episodes than ondansetron.  
Time to first emetic episode was significantly different between treatment arms (log-rank P< 0.001). 
The  first  quartile  time  to  first  emetic  episode  was  115.1  hours,  25.2  hours  and  20.5  hours  for 
palonosetron  0.25  mg,  0.75  mg,  and  ondansetron  32  mg,  respectively  (median  time  to  first  emetic 
episode was longer than 120 hours for all treatment arms). 
Concerning  severity  of  nausea,  significant  differences  among  the  three  arms  were  observed  on  all 
days, except day 1. Overall, the proportion of patients without nausea was highest in the palonosetron 
0.25 group and lowest in the ondasetron group. 
A slightly higher patient global satisfaction was observed in the palonosetron 0.25 group compared to 
the other treatment groups on study days 2 (first quartile 78, 66, 52, and 83, 77, 60, for palonosetron 
0.25  mg,  0.75  mg,  and  ondansetron  on  day  2  and  3,  respectively).  No  statistically  significant 
differences in patient global satisfaction with anti-emetic therapy were observed except on day 3. 
Median quality of life scores were similar across treatment arms for nausea and vomiting during the 
whole study period. A group difference was observed for the total score of the time period between 24 
33 
 
 
 
 
and  96  hours  (P=0.047,  Kruskal-Wallis  test).  Further  pairwise  comparisons  showed  a  significant 
difference for palonosetron 0.25 mg, compared to ondansetron 32 mg. 
Further exploratory subgroup analyses were performed to study the consistency of the treatment effect 
ain  different  subgroups  defined  by  gender,  and  chemotherapy  history.  Differences  between 
palonosetron and ondansetron in favour of both palonosetron  doses were observed for most efficacy 
parameters  in  both  male  and  female  patients.  During  the  first  24  hours  after  chemotherapy,  male 
gender was associated with 13.7%, 22.8%, and 14.1% higher CR rates compared to female patients for 
palonosetron 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg, and ondansetron, respectively. Similarly, higher CC rates, less nausea, 
longer  time  to  treatment  failure,  longer  time  to  first  emetic  episode,  less  rescue  medication,  higher 
patient global satisfaction, and higher quality of life scores for nausea were observed for male patients. 
The  difference  between  both  palonosetron  groups  was  more  pronounced  in  female  than  in  male 
patients.  Non-inferiority  of  both  palonosetron  doses  compared  to  ondansetron  in  terms  of  CR  was 
observed  in  chemotherapy  naïve  and  non-naïve  patients,  except  for  palonosetron  0.75  mg  in 
chemotherapy naïve patients (97.5 CI: -22.9%, 11.7%). Chemotherapy naïve patients tended to have 
less  nausea,  a  higher  patients  global  satisfaction,  and  higher  quality  of  life  scores  than  non-naïve 
subjects. 
An exploratory logistic regression analysis was conducted to study the treatment effect after adjusting 
for gender, chemotherapy history and geographic region. A statistically significant effect (5% level) of 
palonosetron 0.25 mg was observed in the ITT population during all time periods except on day 5.  
Table 11: CR during the first 24 hours after chemotherapy: PALO-99-03 (ITT cohort, N = 563) 
ITT 
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
(N = 189) 
CR at 24 hours No. (%)  153 (81.0) 
Palonosetron  
0.75 mg 
Ondansetron 
32 mg 
(N = 189) 
139 (73.5) 
(N = 185) 
127 (68.6) 
95% CI 
[74.5%, 86.1%] 
[66.6%, 79.6%] 
[61.4%, 75.1%] 
Difference in CR (palo-
ondansetron) 97.5% CI 
[1.8%, 22.8%] 
[-6.1%, 15.9%] 
PP 
Palonosetron  
0.25 mg 
(N = 172) 
CR at 24 hours No. (%)  151 (87.8) 
Palonosetron  
0.75 mg 
Ondansetron 32 
mg 
(N = 174) 
138 (79.3) 
(N = 171) 
121 (70.8) 
95% CI 
[81.7%, 92.1%] 
[72.4%, 84.9%] 
[63.2%, 77.3%] 
Difference in CR (palo-
ondansetron) 97.5% CI 
[6.9%, 27.2%] 
[-2.4%, 19.5%] 
PALO-99-04 
PALO-99-04  was  a  three-arm  double-blind  multicentre  randomised  active-controlled  clinical  trial  of 
single i.v. doses of palonosetron 0.25 mg or 0.75 mg, vs. dolasetron 100 mg i.v., for the prevention of 
moderately emetogenic CINV. 
METHODS 
Study participants (See study PALO-99-03).  
One additional exclusion criteria for study PALO-99-04 was QTc > 500 msec at baseline. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Patients randomised to palonosetron 0.25 mg, or 0.75 mg were adminstered palonostern intravenously 
as  a  30  second  bolus,  followed  by  a  30  minutes  infusion  of  0.9%  saline.  Rescue  medication  for  the 
treatment  of  nausea  and  vomiting  after  chemotherapy,  with  the  exception  of  study  drugs,  was 
permitted  at  the  investigator's  discretion.  The  study  drug  was  adminstered  30  minutes  prior  to 
chemotherapy. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to compare the efficacy of single-doses of palonosetron 0.25 or 0.75 mg, to 
dolasetron 100 mg i.v. in preventing moderately emetogenic CINV. The secondary objectives were to 
evaluate the safety and tolerability of palonosetron, and the effect of anti-emetic control on quality of 
life. 
Outcomes / endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  complete  response  (CR)  during  the  first  24  hours  after 
administration of chemotherapy. CR was defined as no emetic episodes and no rescue medication. An 
emetic episode was defined as one occurrence of vomiting or a sequence of occurrences in very close 
succession not relieved by a period of relaxation, any number of occurrences of unproductive emesis 
(retches)  in  a  unique  5-minute  period,  or  an  episode  of  retching  of  less  than  5  minutes  duration 
combined  with  vomiting  not  relieved  by  a  period  of  relaxation.  Relaxation  between  episodes  was 
defined  as  a  period  of  at  least  1  minute.  Diaries  were  used  to  record  emetic  episodes,  use  of  rescue 
medication and severity of nausea, at 24 hour intervals for up to 120 hours. 
Secondary endpoints: see study PALO-99-04.   
Sample size 
A  sample  size  of  approximately  567  patients  (see  sample  size  section  for  study  PALO-99-03). 
Following a protocol amendment, the sample size was increased to approximately 648  patients (216 
patients  per  arm).  This  was  due  to  the  need  to  exclude  all  patients  from  non  compliant  centres  as  a 
result of quality assurance audits. 
Randomisation 
Randomization (as amended) was stratified by gender, previous chemotherapy history (naive v. non-
naive),  using  an  adaptive  dynamic  method  (minimisation).  Use  of  i.v.  dexamethasone  was  added 
through an amendment as a stratification factor at randomization. 
Blinding (masking) 
The trial was double-blind. 
Statistical methods 
See study PALO-99-03. 
RESULTS  
Participant flow and recruitment  
The participants’ flow is shown in figure 3. A total of 592 patients were randomised, with 331 (56%) 
patients  coming from  20 institutions from Mexico, (22%)  patients coming from  28 institutions from 
the US and (22%) patients coming from 13 institutions from California. Overall, 583 (98%) patients 
were  treated  with  study  medication  (n=  194,  196,  and  193  for  palonosetron  0.25  mg,  0.75  mg,  and 
dolasetron,  respectively).  One  patients  were  randomised  to  palonosetron  0.25  mg  but  received 
dolasetron  instead.  The  total  number  of  patients  with  major  protocol  violations  was  33  (17.5%),  38 
(20.1%) and 35 (18.3%), for palonosetron 0.25, 0.75 and dolasetron, respectively. The most frequent 
violation  was  intake  of  rescue  medication  before  first  emetic  episode  on  day  1  (n=21,  23  and  16 
patients, respectively). 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Participants’ flow (Study PALO-99-04) 
N=592
Randomized
Palonosetron 0.25 mg
n=201
Palonosetron 0.75 mg
n=197
Dolasetron 100 mg
n=194
Treated n=194
Treated n=196
Treated n=193
Completed n= 191
Completed n=191
Completed n=192
Drop-out n= 3
(patient decision)
Drop-out n=5
(patient decision AE)
Drop-out n=1
(patient decision, SAE)
Not treated n=7
Not treated n=1
Not treated n=1
Conduct of the study 
There  were  7  protocol  amendments,  as  well  as  changes  too  the  statistical  analysis  plan.  Concerning 
efficacy,  this  included  changes  to  the  sample  size  calculation,  statistical  analysis,  eligibility  criteria, 
selection criteria, definition of the primary endpoint and populations for analysis (ITT population to be 
analysed according to randomized treatment, regardless of actual treatment received; PP population to 
exclude  all  patients  who  did  not  receive  randomized  treatment),  handling  of  missing  data, 
chemotherapy  administration  and  emetogenicity,  randomization  method,  use  of  concomitant 
medications,  secondary  efficacy  endpoints,  analysis  methods,  patients  monitoring  and  centers.  After 
unblinding  changes  included  some  changes  to  the  statistical  analyses  of  primary  and  secondary 
endpoints. 
Baseline data 
Demographic  and  baseline  disease  characteristics  are  shown  in  tables  12-14.  More  than  60%  of  
patients were Hispanic and more than 30% were Caucasian. 
Numbers analysed 
All patients from one center (13 patients) were excluded from the ITT cohort due to inconsistencies 
and  doubtful  data  but  were  analysed  in  the  safety  cohort.  Therefore,  the  ITT  cohort  comprised 
569 patients  (N=189,  189,  and  191  for  palonosetron  0.25  mg,  0.75  mg,  and  dolasetron  32  mg, 
respectively). The PP cohort comprised 463 patients (N=156, 151, and 156 for palonosetron 0.25 mg, 
0.75 mg, and dolasetron 32 mg, respectively). The number of patients with corticosteroid use was low 
since the amendment allowing the use of dexamethasone became effective late in the study, 5 months 
before study end. 
36 
 
 
 
Table 12: Demographic and baseline patient characteristics for the ITT population  
               (study PALO-99-04) 
Gender No. (%) 
Age 
CT history No. (%) 
Male  
Female 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
Naïve 
Non-naïve 
impairment  No. 
Renal 
(%) 
Hepatic  impairment  No. 
(%) 
Cardiac    impairment  No. 
(%) 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Karnofsky PS 
Corticosteroid use (%) 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
Yes 
No 
Palonosetron 
Palonosetron 
Dolasetron 
0.25 mg 
N=189 
0.75 mg 
N=189 
100 mg 
N=191 
34 (18.0) 
155 (82.0) 
33 (17.5) 
156 (82.5) 
35 (18.3) 
156 (81.7) 
53.3 
52.0 
21, 86 
124 (65.6) 
65 (34.4) 
14 (7.4) 
175 (92.6) 
27 (14.3) 
162 (85.7) 
50 (26.5) 
139 (73.5) 
94.7 
100.0 
70-100 
55.2 
56.0 
18, 84 
131 (69.3) 
58 (30.7) 
19 (10.1) 
170 (89.9) 
27 (14.3) 
162 (85.7) 
47 (24.9) 
142 (75.1) 
93.4 
100.0 
50-100 
53.6 
52.0 
18, 97 
125 (65.4) 
66 (34.6) 
17 (9.2) 
168 (90.8) 
24 (13.0) 
161 (87.0) 
55 (29.7) 
130 (70.3) 
94.2 
100.0 
60-100 
11 (5.8) 
178 (94.2) 
12 (6.3) 
177 (93.7) 
8 (4.2) 
183 (95.8) 
Abbreviations: CT: chemotherapy; PS: performance status 
Table 13: Most frequent primary cancers (multiple primaries possible) - Study PALO-99-04 
                (safety cohort, N = 582)  
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
N=193 
Palonosetron 
0.75 mg 
N=195 
Dolasetron 
100 mg 
N=194 
Breast 
Non Hodgkin’s lymphoma 
Lung 
NSCLC  
SCLC 
Ovarian 
Cervical cancer carcinoma 
Other 
131 (67.9) 
8 (4.1) 
8 (4.1) 
5 (2.6) 
3 (1.6) 
4 (2.1) 
3 (1.6) 
10 (5.3) 
116 (59.5) 
13 (6.7) 
10 (5.1) 
2 (1.0) 
6 (3.1) 
9 (4.6) 
2 (1.0) 
20 (10.6) 
131 (67.5) 
8 (4.1) 
7 (3.6) 
2 (1.0) 
4 (2.1) 
3 (1.5) 
2 (1.0) 
22 (11.9) 
Abbreviations: a: includes all type of lung cancer (such as bronchial carcinoma or pulmonary carcinoma) excluding SCLC 
and NSCLC; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; SCLC: small cell lung cancer; Other: includes colon cancer, prostate 
cancer, acute lymphocytic leukemia. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. Concomitant CT treatment administered on study day 1 for the ITT population (Study 
PALO-99-04) 
Substance 
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
N=189 
No. (%) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
Palonosetron 
0.75 mg 
N=189 
No. (%) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
Dolasetron 
100 mg 
N=191 
No. (%) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
Cyclophosphamide 
Doxorubicin 
Epirubicin 
Carboplatin 
Cisplatin 
Methotrexate 
Mitoxantrone 
Irinotecan 
Ifosfamide 
Idarubicin 
138 (73.0) 
91 (48.1) 
39 (20.6) 
30 (15.9) 
14 (7.4) 
7 (3.7) 
4 (2.1) 
2 (1.1) 
2 (1.1) 
2 (1.1) 
500 
50 
75 
87 
40 
40 
9 
113 
2250 
15 
129 (68.3) 
77 (40.7) 
44 (23.3) 
38 (20.1) 
8 (4.2) 
9 (4.8) 
5 (2.6) 
4 (2.1) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
600 
50 
75 
255 
40 
40 
10 
113 
- 
- 
146 (76.4) 
93 (48.7) 
43 (22.5) 
26 (13.6) 
7 (3.7) 
6 (3.1) 
8 (4.2) 
3 (1.6) 
1 (0.5) 
0 (0.0) 
500 
50 
75 
300 
50 
40 
12 
100 
2850 
- 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  results  of  the  primary  analysis  are shown  in  table  15  for  the  ITT  and  the  PP  populations.  Non-
inferiority of both palonosetron doses compared to dolasetron was shown. In secondary analyses, non-
inferiority  of  both  doses  of  palonosetron  to  dolasetron  for  CR  was  demonstrated  for  all  daily  and 
cumulative  time  periods  during  the  study.  Palonosetron  0.25 mg  was  superior  to  dolasetron  with 
regard  to  CR  on  Days 2  and  3  and  for  the  cumulative  time  period  0  to  48,  0  to  120  and  24  to 
120 hours. Palonosetron 0.75 mg was superior to dolasetron with regard to CR on Days 2, 3 and 4 and 
for the cumulative time period 0 to 72, 0 to 96, 0 to 120 and 24 to 120 hours periods. Superiority of 
palonosetron 0.25 mg to 0.75 mg was demonstrated  for CR rates on day 1. 
A  significant  difference  among  the  three  treatment  arms  was  observed  (log-rank  P=0.025,  ITT 
population,  median  times  to  treatment  failure  were  51.1,  52.8,  and  24.6  hours,  for  palonosetron  .25 
mg,  palonosetron  .75  mg,  and  dolasetron,  respectively).  Pairwise  comparisons  showed  a  statistically 
significant  difference  between  both  palonosetron  doses  and  dolasetron.  No  significant  differences 
were observed between the palonosetron groups. 
No  significant  differences  were  observed  among  the  three  treatment  arms  for  the  time  to  first 
administration of rescue medication. 
Concerning the number of emetic episodes, more patients in the palonosetron 0.25 mg group had no 
emetic episodes on day 1, compared to the two other groups, respectively (72.0%, 65.18% and 58.6% 
for  palonosetron  0.25  mg,  palonosetron  0.75  mg,  and  dolasetron  100  mg,  respectively,  in  the  ITT 
population). On day 2, 4 and 5, the rates of patients without emetic episodes were comparable between 
the palonosetron groups (70.9%, 75.1%; 89.9%, 88.9% and 95.8% and 92.6%, for palonosetron 0.25 
mg, palonosetron 0.75 mg arms on day 2, 4 and 5, respectively). On day 3, the proportion of patients 
without emetic episodes was higher in the palonosetron 0.75 mg group compared to palonosetron 0.25 
mg (84.1% vs 77.8%, respectively). Overall (days 1 to 5), both palonosetron doses had a significantly 
lower number of emetic episodes than dolasetron.  
Time to first emetic episode was significantly different between treatment arms (log-rank P =  0.008). 
The first quartile time to first emetic episode was 13.5 hours, 9.8 hours and 7.9 hours for palonosetron 
0.25  mg,  0.75  mg,  and  dplasetron  100  mg,  respectively  (median  time  to  first  emetic  episode  was 
longer than 120 hours for both palonosetron arms, and 41.5 hours for dolasetron arm). 
Concerning severity of nausea, significant differences among the three arms were observed on study 
day  2,  3  and  4.  Overall,  the  proportion  of  patients  without  nausea  was  highest  in  the  palonosetron 
groups compared with the dolasetron group. 
A  slightly  higher  patient  global  satisfaction  was  observed  in  the  palonosetron  groups  compared  to 
dolasetron 100  mg. Statistically significant differences in patient global satisfaction with anti-emetic 
therapy were observed on day 2 and 4. 
38 
 
 
 
 
Median quality of life scores for nausea during the period 0-24 hours and 24-96 hours were higher in 
both palonosetron groups compared to dolasetron 100 mg. No differences on the quality of life scores 
for vomiting were seen. Statistical significant differences were seen between the treatment groups for 
quality of life scores during 24-96 hours after chemotherapy for nausea (P = 0.013) and, as a result of 
nausea,  for  the  total  score  (P=0.016,  Kruskal-Wallis  test).  Further  pairwise  comparisons  showed  a 
significant difference between both palonosetron doses compared to dolasetron for the quality of life 
scores during the 24-96 hours period for nausea, and for the total score. 
Further exploratory subgroup analyses were performed to study the consistency of the treatment effect 
in  different  subgroups  defined  by  gender,  and  chemotherapy  history.  A  consistent  treatment  group 
difference was found in male patients with the palonosetron 0.25mg dose showing better efficacy than 
the  0.75  mg  palonosetron  and  the  100  mg  dolasetron  doses.  During  the  first  24  hours  after 
chemotherapy, male gender was associated with 30.8%, 7.8%, and 12.3% higher CR rates compared 
to female patients for palonosetron 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg, and dolasetron 100 mg, respectively. Similarly, 
higher  CC  rates,  less  nausea,  longer  time  to  treatment  failure,  longer  time  to  first  emetic  episode, 
longer time to first administration of rescue medication, less rescue medication, higher patient global 
satisfaction,  and  higher  quality  of  life  scores  for  nausea  were  observed  for  male  patients.  Non-
inferiority  of  both  palonosetron  doses  compared  to  dolasetron  in  terms  of  CR  was  observed  in 
chemotherapy  naïve  patients  only.  Chemotherapy  non-naïve  patients  tended  to  have  longer  time  to 
treatment failure, less rescue medication, and higher quality of life scores than naïve patients. 
The relative frequency of patients with CR during the first 24 hours after chemotherapy was higher in 
patients with  corticoid use compared to  patients without corticoid use the palonosetron 0.25 mg and 
dolasetron groups.  In the palonosetron 0.75 mg group, the percentage of patients with CR was higher 
in patients without corticosteroids.   
An exploratory logistic regression analysis was conducted to study the treatment effect after adjusting 
for gender, chemotherapy history and geographic region. A statistically significant effect (5% level) of 
palonosetron  0.25  mg  was  observed  in  the  ITT  population  on  days  2  and  3  as  well  as  during  all 
cumulative time periods.  
Table 15: CR during the first 24 hours after chemotherapy: PALO-99-04 (ITT cohort, N = 569) 
ITT 
Palonosteron 
0.25 mg 
(N = 189) 
Palonosetron  
0.75 mg 
(N = 189) 
Dolasetron  
100 mg 
(N = 191) 
CR at 24 hours No. (%)  119 (63.0) 
108 (57.1) 
101 (52.9) 
95% CI 
[55.6%, 69.8%] 
[49.8%, 64.26%] 
[45.6%, 60.1%] 
Difference in CR 
(palonosetron-
dolasetron) 97.5% CI 
[-1.7%, 21.9%] 
[-7.7%, 16.2%] 
PP 
Palonosetron  
0.25 mg 
(N = 156) 
CR at 24 hours No. (%)  112 (71.8) 
Palonosetron  
0.75 mg 
(N = 151) 
100 (66.2) 
Dolasetron  
100 mg 
(N = 156) 
93 (59.6) 
95% CI 
[63.9%, 78.6%] 
[58.0%, 73.6%] 
[51.5%, 67.3%] 
Difference in CR 
(palonosetron-
dolasetron) 97.5% CI 
[-0.4%, 24.8%] 
[-6.4%, 19.6%] 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PALO-99-05 
PALO-99-05  was  a  three-arm  double-blind  multicentre  randomised  active-controlled  clinical  trial  of 
single i.v doses of palonosetron 0.25 mg or  0.75 mg vs. ondansetron 32 mg i.v, for the prevention of 
highly emetogenic CINV. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion criteria were similar to PALO-99-03, except that patients had to be scheduled to receive a 
single dose of at least one of the following agents on day 1: cisplatin ≥ 60 mg/m2 (adminstered over 1-4 hours 
for doses < 70 mg/m2, administered over 2-4 hours for doses ≥ 70 mg/m2), cyclophosphamide ≥ 1500 mg/m2, 
carmustine (BCNU) > 250 mg/m2, dacarbazine (DTIC), mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard). The administration 
of the main emetogenic agent following the classification proposed by Hesketh et al. [32] on study day 1 should 
not  extend  beyond  4  hours.  The  main  criteria  for  exclusion  were  similar  to  PALO-99-03.  Patients  who  were 
scheduled  to  receive  at  any  time  during  days  2-6  of  the  study  DTIC,  mechloretamine,  cisplatin, 
cyclophosphamide  >  1500  mg/m2,  BCNU  >  250  mg/m2,  lomustine  (CCNU)  >  60  mg/m2,  or  any  other 
chemotherapeutic agent with an emetogenicity level 4 or above were not eligible.  
Treatments 
Randomized patients were administered i.v. palonosetron 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg as a 30 second bolus, or 
ondansetron  32  mg  over  15  minutes,  in  a  blinded  fashion  30  minutes  prior  to  chemotherapy  (see 
PALO-99-03). 
Objectives 
The  primary  and  secondary  objectives  were  similar  to  those  of  PALO-99-03,  but  for  prevention  of 
highly emetogenic CINV. 
Outcomes / endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  complete  response  (CR)  during  the  first  24  hours  after 
administration of chemotherapy. For response definition and secondary endpoints, see PALO-99-03. 
Sample size 
Initially, a sample size of approximately 669 patients (223 patients per arm) was calculated based on 
an  assumed  response  rate  of  50%,  a  difference  of  no  more  than  15%  in  CR  proportion,  and  setting 
α=0.0125  (i.e.,  α=0.025/2  to  adjust  for  the  two  treatment  comparisons)  for  a  one-sided  test  of 
equivalence, 80% power for each comparison, and a 5% dropout. Prior to unblinding, an additional 11 
patients were randomized to allow for sites excluded from the study. 
Randomization 
See study PALO-99-04. 
Blinding (masking) 
The trial was double-blind. 
Statistical methods 
See study PALO-99-03. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow and recruitment  
The participants’ flow is shown in figure 4. Seventy-six (76) centres enrolled a total of 680 patients in 
the study, with 270 (40%) of patients from 18  institutions  from  Russia, 242 (36%) patients from 18 
institutions from Mexico, and the remainder 168 (25%) from 40 institutions from Western Europe, the 
U.S.A, and Canada. Overall, 7 patients did not receive study medication. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Participants’ flow (Study PALO-99-05) 
N=680
Randomized
Palonosetron 0.25 mg
n=229
Palonosetron 0.75 mg
n=225
Ondansetron 32 mg
n=226
Treated n=225
Treated n=225
Treated n=223
Completed n=212
Completed n=218
Completed n=217
Drop-out n= 13
Drop-out n=7
Drop-out n=6
Patient decison n=6
Patient decison n=2
Patient decison n=2
SAE/death n=2
SAE/death n=3
SAE/death n=2
Violation n=2
Violation n=1
Violation n=0
Lost to fup n=3
Lost to fup n=1
Lost to fup n=1
Other n=0
Other n=0
Other n=1
Not treated n=4
Not treated n=0
Not treated n=3
Conduct of the study 
There  were  several  protocol  amendments  and  changes  to  the  statistical  analyses  of  secondary 
endpoints similar to those described fro  PALO-99-03. Prior to  unblinding,  all patients  from  one site 
were excluded (N=6). 
Baseline data 
Demographic and baseline disease characteristics are shown in tables 16 - 18. The majority of patients 
(60%) were Caucasians or Hispanic (36%).  
Numbers analysed 
The  ITT  cohort  comprised  667 patients    (palonosetron  0.25  mg  and  0.75  mg,  223  subjects  each; 
ondansetron 32 mg, 221 subjects). The PP cohort comprised 572 patients  (N=185, 191, and 196 for 
palonosetron 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg, and ondansetron 32 mg, respectively). 
Table 16: Demographic and baseline patient characteristics for the ITT population  
               (study PALO-99-05) 
Gender No. (%) 
Age 
CT naïve  
Corticosteroid use 
Renal impairment 
Hepatic impairment  
Cardiac  impairment  
Karnofsky PS 
Male  
Female 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
No. (%) 
No. (%) 
No. (%) 
No. (%) 
No. (%) 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
Palonosetron 
0.75 mg 
N=223 
110 (49.3) 
113 (50.7) 
50.6 
52.0 
18-82 
129 (57.8) 
150 (67.3) 
17 (7.6) 
21 (9.4) 
43 (19.3) 
88.7 
90.0 
40-100 
Ondansetron 
32 mg 
N=221 
108 (48.9) 
113 (51.1) 
50.9 
52.0 
18-86 
131 (59.3) 
147 (66.5) 
17 (7.7) 
14 (6.3) 
36 (16.3) 
90.1 
90.0 
60-100 
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
N=223 
108 (48.8) 
115 (51.6) 
53.4 
55.0 
18-86 
133 (59.6) 
150 (67.3) 
12 (5.4) 
15 (6.7) 
38 (17.0) 
88.4 
90.0 
50-100 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: Most frequent primary cancers (multiple primaries possible) for the randomized and treated 
population (N=673, study PALO-99-05) 
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
N=225 
36 (16.0) 
22 (9.8) 
20 (8.9) 
12 (5.3) 
8 (3.6) 
Palonosetron 
0.75 mg 
N=225 
40 (17.8) 
14 (6.2) 
18 (8.0) 
5 (2.2) 
11 (4.9) 
Ondansetron 
32 mg 
N=223 
39 (17.5) 
17 (7.6) 
20 (9.0) 
14 (6.3) 
14 (6.3) 
Ovarian 
HD 
Lung a 
Breast 
Gastric 
Abbreviations:  a:  includes  all  type  of  lung  cancer  (such  as  bronchial  carcinoma  or 
pulmonary carcinoma) excluding SCLC and NSCLC; HD: Hodgkin’s disease.  
Note: frequencies not reported for less frequent primaries (head & neck, nasopharinx, 
oesophagus,  SCLC,  NSCLC,  pancreas,  endometrium,  cervix,  testis,  bladder,  Non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma, melanoma, and myeloma). 
Table 18: Concomitant CT treatment administered on study day 1 (multiple answers possible) for the 
ITT population (Study PALO-99-05) 
Substance 
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
N=223 
No. (%) 
184 (82.5) 
57 (25.6) 
28 (12.6) 
1 (0.4) 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
75 
700 
375 
120 
Palonosteron 
0.75 mg 
N=223 
No. (%) 
189 (84.8) 
53 (23.8) 
24 (10.8) 
- 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2)
80 
600 
388 
- 
Ondansetron 
32 mg 
N=221 
No. (%) 
181 (81.9) 
59 (26.7) 
30 (13.6) 
- 
Median 
dose 
(mg/m2) 
80 
700 
467 
- 
Cisplatin 
Cyclophosphamide 
Dacarbazine 
Carmustine 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  results  of  the  primary  analysis  are shown  in  table  19  for  the  ITT  and  the  PP  populations.  Non-
inferiority  of  both  palonosetron  doses  compared  to  ondansetron  was  shown.  In  secondary  analyses, 
non-inferiority of both doses of palonosetron to ondansetron for CR was demonstrated for all daily and 
cumulative time periods during the study. The two palonosetron doses were similar (with differences 
in  PR  proportions  within  ±  15%),  except  for  the  0  to  24  hours  period  where  a  larger  than  15% 
difference favouring the 0.75 dose could not be excluded (95% CI for difference in proportion of CR 
for palonosetron 0.75 mg minus 0.25 mg: -3.5%, 15.7%).  
No  statistically  significant  differences  in  the  complete  control  proportions  were  observed  across  the 
three  groups  during  any  of  the  cumulative  study  periods.  Significant  differences  (favouring 
palonosetron .75 mg) were only observed on day 4. 
No statistically significant differences were observed among the three treatment arms  in terms of time 
to treatment failure (median 45.3, 45.6, and 34.2 hours, for palonosetron 0.25 mg, palonosetron 0.75 
mg, and ondansetron, respectively, log-rank P=0.096, ITT population), and time to first administration 
of rescue medication.  
Concerning the number of emetic episodes, statistically significant differences in the number of emetic 
episodes  were  observed  on  day1  and  for  the  overall  time  period  0  to  120.  More  patients  in  the 
palonosetron  0.75  mg  group  had  no  emetic  episodes  on  day  1,  compared  to  the  two  other  groups, 
respectively  (68.2%,  72.2%  and  60.2%  for  palonosetron  0.25  mg,  palonosetron  0.75  mg,  and 
ondansetron 32 mg, respectively, in the ITT population). No significant differences were observed on 
study days 2 to 5. 
Time to first emetic episode was significantly different between treatment arms (log-rank P< 0.012). 
The  first  quartile  time  to  first  emetic  episode  was  19.5  hours,  21.0  hours  and  17.3  hours  for 
palonosetron 0.25 mg, 0.75 mg, and ondansetron 32 mg, respectively (the median time to first emetic 
episode was longer than 120 hours for all palonosetron arms, and 42.7 hours for the ondansetron arm). 
No significant differences  were observed for  severity of nausea  among the three arms on  any of the 
study days. 
No  statistically  significant  differences  in  patient  global  satisfaction  with  anti-emetic  therapy  were 
observed except on any study days. 
42 
 
 
 
No differences in quality of life scores were observed across treatment arms for nausea and vomiting 
during the whole study period. 
Further exploratory subgroup analyses were performed to study the consistency of the treatment effect 
in  different  subgroups  defined  by  gender,  chemotherapy  history,  and  corticosteroid  use.  In  female 
patents palonosetron 0.75 had significantly higher CR proportion compared to ondansetron 32 mg. No 
significant  differences  were  observed  for  male  patients  among  the  three  treatment  arms.  In 
chemotherapy naïve patients the palonosetron 0.75 mg group showed a significantly higher response 
rate than the other arms, whereas the proportion of CR was similar in non-naïve patients, during the 
first  24  hours.  Concerning  further  time  points,  the  estimated  lower  limits  of  the  97.5%  confidence 
intervals  were  within  the  pre-defined  non-inferiority  margin  for  both  palonosetron  doses  for  all 
cumulative  and  daily  intervals  (except  for  ondansetron  0.25  mg  in  naïve  patients  on  days  4  and  5). 
Concerning corticosteroid use, non-inferiority to ondansetron 32 mg was shown for both doses, except 
for  patients  randomized  to  palonosetron  0.25  mg  without  corticosteroid  use.  In  patients  without 
corticosteroid use, palonosetron 0.75 mg was significantly better than 0.25 mg. For further study days, 
non-inferiority  to  ondansetron  32  mg  was  observed  for  both  palonosetron  doses  in  patients  with 
corticosteroid use, but not for palonosetron 0.25 mg in without corticosteroid use on days 2 to 5 or for 
palonosetron 0.75 mg for days 2 to 4. 
Table 19: CR during the first 24 hours after chemotherapy: PALO-99-05 (ITT cohort, N = 667) 
ITT 
CR at 24 hours No. (%) 
95% CI 
Difference in CR (palonosetron-
ondansetron) 97.5% CI 
PP 
CR at 24 hours No. (%) 
95% CI 
Difference in CR (palonosetron-
ondansetron) 97.5% CI 
•  Analysis performed across trials  
Palonosetron 
0.25 mg 
(N = 223) 
132 (59.2) 
[52.4%, 65.6%]
Palonosetron  
0.75 mg 
(N = 223) 
146 (65.5) 
[58.8%, 71.6%] 
Ondansetron 
32 mg 
(N = 221) 
126 (57.0) 
[50.2%, 63.6%] 
[-8.8%, 13.1%] 
[-2.3%, 19.2%] 
Palonosetron  
0.25 mg 
(N = 185) 
128 (69.2) 
[61.9%, 75.6%]
Palonosetron  
0.75 mg 
(N = 191) 
139 (72.8) 
[65.8%, 78.8%] 
Ondansetron 32 
mg 
(N = 196) 
124 (63.3) 
[56.1%, 69.9%] 
[-5.4%, 17.3%] 
[-1.6%, 20.6%] 
A  comparison  of  efficacy  results  of  the  pivotal  studies  (PALO-99-03,  PALO-99-04,  PALO-99-05) 
was performed.  
Complete Response rates during the first 24 hours 
The  97.5%  confidence  intervals  CIs  for  the  difference  in  CR  rates  during  the  first  24 hours  after 
chemotherapy  between  the  palonosetron  doses  and  active  comparators  are  shown  in  Figure  5  for 
studies PALO-99-03, PALO-99-04, and PALO-99-05 (ITT Cohorts: N = 563, N = 569, and N = 667): 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Difference in CR rates during the first 24 hours in pivotal studies (ITT cohorts) 
PALO-99-05
PALO 0.75 minus Ondansetron
PALO-99-05
PALO 0.25 minus Ondansetron
PALO-99-04
PALO 0.75 minus Dolasetron
PALO-99-04
PALO 0.25 minus Dolasetron
PALO-99-03
PALO 0.75 minus Ondansetron
PALO-99-03
PALO 0.25 minus Ondansetron
-15.0%
-10.0%
-5.0%
0.0%
5.0%
10.0%
15.0%
20.0%
25.0%
In  the  moderately  emetogenic  CINV  studies,  the  percentage  of  patients  with  CR  during  the  first  24 
hours after  chemotherapy was  greatest  in the  palonosetron 0.25 mg group (range 63.0  % to  81.0 %) 
and least in the active comparator group (dolasetron 52.9%, ondansetron 68.6 %). In contrast, in the 
prevention  of  highly  emetogenic  CINV  the  greatest  percentage  of  patients  with  CR  during  the  first 
24 hours after chemotherapy was seen in the palonosetron 0.75 mg group (65.5%). The CR rates for 
palonosetron 0.25 mg and ondansetron were comparable (59, 2% vs. 57.0%, respectively). 
In all three studies, both palonosetron doses were non-inferior to ondansetron and dolasetron for the 
prevention of moderately as well as highly emetogenic CINV in terms of CR rates during the first 24 
hours after chemotherapy. In study PALO-99-03 palonosetron 0.25 mg was superior to ondansetron. 
Complete Response over time (by day) 
CR rates by day for the 0 to 24, 24 to 48, 48 to 72, 72 to 96, and 96 to 120 hour time periods (study 
days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively) were measured for studies PALO-99-03, PALO-99-04 and PALO-
99-05. In all three studies CR rates by day were greater for palonosetron, regardless of the dose, than 
for the respective active comparator for study days 1 through 5. In all three studies the lower limit of 
the  97.5  %  CI  for  the  CR  rates  of  both  palonosetron  doses  was  above  -15%  on  each  study  day, 
indicating non-inferiority of both doses of palonosetron to the respective comparators with respect to 
CR  for  all  daily  periods.  In  Study  PALO-99-03,  statistically  superior  CR  rates  were  observed  for 
palonosetron 0.25 mg compared to ondansetron on study days 1, 2, 3, and 4, since the 97.5% CIs for 
the  difference  between  the  two  treatments  did  not  include  zero.  In  Study  PALO-99-04,  statistical 
superiority  to  dolasetron  was  shown  for  palonosetron 0.25 mg  on  study  days 2  and  3  and  for 
palonosetron 0.75 mg on study days 2, 3, and 4. In the highly emetogenic CINV study, the 97.5% CI 
of the comparison between palonosetron 0.25 mg and ondansetron  shifted toward  positive  values  on 
study days 2 and 3, showing a trend towards greater efficacy of palonosetron on these days. Overall, 
no  substantial  differences  were  shown  in  daily  CR  rates  between  the  two  palonosetron  doses  in  all 
three studies (data not shown).  
Complete Response over time (cumulative time periods)  
In all three studies, the relative frequency of patients with CR during each cumulative time period over 
the  five-day  observation  period  was  greater  in  both  palonosetron  groups  compared  to  active 
comparators.  In  all  three  studies,  non-inferiority  of  both  palonosetron  doses  to  ondansetron  and 
dolasetron, respectively, was shown during all cumulative time periods after chemotherapy since the 
lower limit of the 97.5% CI was above the pre-set threshold of -15%. Furthermore, in the moderately 
emetogenic  CINV  study  PALO-99-03,  the  97.5%  CIs  for  the  comparison  of  palonosetron  0.25 mg 
with  ondansetron  did  not  include  zero,  indicating  statistically  superior  CR  rates  with  palonosetron 
0.25 mg  compared  to  ondansetron  for  all  cumulative  time  periods.  In  study  PALO-99-04,  statistical 
superiority of palonosetron 0.25 mg to dolasetron for CR was observed for the 0 to 48, 0 to 120, and 
44 
 
24  to  120 hour  periods  and  for  palonosetron 0.75 mg  for  the  0  to  72,  0 to  96,  0  to  120,  and  24  to 
120 hour periods. Results for palonosetron 0.25 mg are shown in table 20 - 22. 
Complete Control over time (by day) 
In all three studies, the Complete Control rates by day were greater on both palonosetron doses than 
on the active comparators throughout the observation period (data not shown).  
Complete Control over time (cumulative time periods) 
In  all  three  studies,  the  cumulative  Complete  Control  rates  were  greater  on  both  palonosetron  doses 
than on the active comparator throughout the observation period. The difference between palonosetron 
and active comparator was statistically significant in Study PALO-99-03 for palonosetron 0.25 mg and 
in  Study  PALO-99-04  for  both  palonosetron  doses,  during  all  cumulative  periods.  Apart  from  0-48 
and 0-72 hours in PALO-99-03, there were no statistical differences in cumulative Complete Control 
rates between the two doses of palonosetron. Results for palonosetron 0.25 mg are shown in table 20 - 
22. 
Table 20: Percentage of patients responding by treatment group and phase (ITT cohort)  
              Study PALO-99-03 
palonosetron   0.25 mg 
(N= 189) 
% 
 Complete Response (no emesis and no rescue medication) 
ondansetron 32 mg 
(N= 185) 
% 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
0 – 120 hours 
81.0 
74.1 
69.3 
68.6 
55.1 
50.3 
 Complete Control (CR and no more than mild nausea) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
0 – 120 hours 
 No nausea (Likert Scale c) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
76.2 
66.7 
63.0 
60.3 
51.9 
65.4 
50.3 
44.9 
56.8 
39.5 
Delta 
% 
12.4 
19.0 
19.0 
10.8 
16.4 
18.1 
3.5 
12.4 
97.5% CI a 
[1.8%, 22.8%] 
[7.5%, 30.3%] 
[7.4%, 30.7%] 
p-value b 
         NS 
0.001 
0.001 
p-value b 
           NS 
      NS 
0 – 120 hours 
36.2 
a    The study was designed to show non-inferiority. A lower bound greater than –15% demonstrates non-inferiority between 
      NS 
45.0 
8.8 
Palonosetron and comparator. 
b    Chi-square test. Significance level at α=0.05. 
c     4- point Likert scale measuring none, mild, moderate or severe nausea. 
Abbreviation: NS: non statistically significant. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21: Percentage of patients responding by treatment group and phase (ITT cohort)  
              Study PALO-99-04 
palonosetron 0.25 mg 
(N= 185) 
% 
 Complete Response (no emesis and no rescue medication) 
dolasetron 100 mg 
(N= 191) 
% 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
0 – 120 hours 
63.0 
54.0 
46.0 
52.9 
38.7 
34.0 
 Complete Control (CR and no more than mild nausea) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
0 – 120 hours 
 No nausea (Likert Scale c) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
57.1 
48.1 
41.8 
48.7 
41.8 
47.6 
36.1 
30.9 
41.4 
26.2 
Delta 
% 
10.1 
15.3 
12.0 
9.5 
12.0 
10.9 
7.3 
15.6 
97.5% CI a 
[-1.7%, 21.9%] 
[3.4%, 27.1%] 
[0.3%, 23.7%] 
p-value b 
         NS 
0.018 
0.027 
p-value b 
NS 
0.001 
0 – 120 hours 
22.5 
a    The study was designed to show non-inferiority. A lower bound greater than –15% demonstrates non-inferiority between 
0.014 
33.9 
11.4 
Palonosetron and comparator. 
b    Chi-square test. Significance level at α=0.05. 
c     4- point Likert scale measuring none, mild, moderate or severe nausea. 
Abbreviation: NS: non statistically significant. 
Table 22: Percentage of patients responding by treatment group and phase (ITT cohort)  
Study PALO-99-05 
palonosetron 0.25 mg 
(N= 223) 
% 
ondansetron 32 mg 
(N= 221) 
% 
 Complete Response (no emesis and no rescue medication) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
0 – 120 hours 
59.2 
45.3 
40.8 
57.0 
38.9 
33.0 
 Complete Control (CR and no more than mild nausea) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
0 – 120 hours 
 No nausea (Likert Scale c) 
0 – 24 hours 
24 – 120 hours 
56.5 
40.8 
37.7 
53.8 
35.4 
51.6 
35.3 
29.0 
49.3 
32.1 
Delta 
% 
2.2 
6.4 
97.5% CI a 
[-8.8%, 13.1%] 
[-4.6%, 17.3%] 
            7.8 
[-2.9%, 18.5%] 
4.9 
5.5 
8.7 
4.5 
3.3 
p-value b 
NS 
NS 
NS 
p-value b 
NS 
NS 
0 – 120 hours 
32.1 
a    The study was designed to show non-inferiority. A lower bound greater than -15% demonstrates non-inferiority between 
33.6 
NS 
1.5 
palonosetron and comparator. 
b     Chi-square test. Significance level at α=0.05. 
c     4- point Likert scale measuring none, mild, moderate or severe nausea. 
Abbreviation: NS: non statistically significant 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
The results of the secondary analysis on the number of emetic episodes, severity of nausea, number of 
patients with rescue medication, time to treatment failure, were in accordance with the results obtained 
form the primary analysis (data not shown). 
With  regard  to  patient’s  global  satisfaction  and  quality  of  life,  statistically  significant  differences 
between  treatments  were  registered  only  in  the  moderately  emetogenic  CINV  studies,  during  the 
delayed phase of emesis (data not shown). 
•  Supportive study 
PALO-99-06 
PALO-99-06 was a multicentre, open-label, repeat-cycle study to assess the safety and efficacy of i.v. 
palonosetron  0.75 mg  for  the  prevention  of  chemotherapy-induced  nausea  and  vomiting  in  repeated 
chemotherapy  cycles.  Patients  having  completed  one  of  the  phase  III  studies  (i.e.,  PALO-99-03, 
PALO-99-04,  or  PALO-99-05),  and  who  were  scheduled  to  receive  at  least  one  additional 
chemotherapy cycle, could have been enrolled in study PALO-99-06.  
At  each  repeated  chemotherapy  cycle,  a  single  dose  of  palonosetron  0.75 mg  was  administered 
30 minutes prior to administration of the chemotherapeutic treatment (study day 1). At the discretion 
of  the  investigator,  a  single  i.v.  dose  of  20 mg  dexamethasone  could  be  administered  15 minutes 
before the start of chemotherapy. For each cycle, a 14-day follow-up period was conducted. 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  related  to  safety  aspects.  All  efficacy  variables  were 
secondary objectives.  
A total of 905 patients were enrolled, among which 895 were treated with study medication in at least 
one cycle of chemotherapy for a total of 1,733 cycles.  
The ITT cohort comprised 875 subjects with 1667 cycles. Rescue medication was used in fewer than 
40% of cycles during the study. 
The complete response rates achieved during the first 24 hours ranged from 55.0% to 64.7% over the 
cycles evaluated. No safety issues were raised. 
In addition to the overall cycle analysis, a separate analysis for the first five cycles was performed to 
analyse the persistence of treatment effects. Overall, efficacy persisted throughout subsequent cycles 
in terms of CR. As for the number of emetic episodes, in the acute phase (0 to 24 hours), in over 80% 
of cycles patients had zero or one episode of emesis (combined total: 1,334 cycles).  In subsequent 24-
hour  intervals,  the  proportion  of  cycles  in  which  patients  had  no  emetic  episodes  steadily  increased 
from 74.1% during the 24- to 48 hour interval to 91.1% during the 96- to 120 hour interval. 
Approximately  half  of  all  patients  had  no  nausea  for  the  first  48 hours  after  administration  of 
palonosetron, and the proportion of patients without nausea increased steadily in each successive 24-
hour period.  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  dose  response  studies  were  adequate  and  demonstrated  that  palonosetron  behaves  like  other 
related  drugs  in  having  a  plateau-like  dose  response  curve  [30,  31].  The  dose  chosen  (3 µg/kg, 
approximately equivalent to a 0.25 mg fixed dose) was the lowest effective dose on the dose-response 
plateau.  
In  double-blind,  randomised  controlled  trials,  a  single  i.v.  dose  of  palonosetron  0.25  mg  was  non 
inferior to ondansetron 32 mg (study PALO-99-03) and to dolasetron 100 mg (study PALO-99-04) in 
the  prevention  of  acute  (first  24  hours  after  chemotherapy)  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with 
moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Moreover, it was possible to switch from non-inferiority 
to  superiority  when  palonosetron  0.25  mg  was  compared  to  ondansetron  in  relation  to  Complete 
Response rates.  
In  a  double-blind,  randomised  controlled  trial  (study  PALO-99-05),  palonosetron  0.25 mg  was  non 
inferior to ondansetron 32 mg in the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with highly 
emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy.  Additional  supportive  evidence  of  efficacy  in  patients  receiving 
highly  emetogenic  chemotherapy  was  provided  by  a  phase  II  dose-ranging  trial  (study  2330/PALO-
00-01). 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The choice of the 15% non-inferiority margin set up in all three pivotal trials was chosen, based on the 
results of a meta-analysis of controlled phase II studies with historical placebo and active comparator 
in CINV.  
Corticosteroids are the most commonly used drugs for the prevention of delayed emesis. Data on the 
concomitant  use  of  corticosteroids  were  limited.  No  patients  in  study  PALO-99-03  received 
corticosteroids,  only  5%  of  the  patients  received  this  medication  in  study  PALO-99-04  (after  a 
protocol amendment) and only in study PALO-99-05, where 67% of patients received dexamethasone, 
corticosteroid use was permitted at the investigator discretion. It would have been more appropriate if 
use of corticosteroids had been introduced earlier, in all trials, as the evidence from many published 
studies and guidelines suggests that the addition of a corticosteroids to 5-HT3 antagonists significantly 
improves antiemetic efficacy with each of the agents [31, 35, 36]. The SPCs of both ondansetron and 
dolasetron  recommend  the  concurrent  use  of  steroids  to  increase  efficacy.  Published  data  have  led 
most  investigators  to  advise  that  a  corticosteroid  should  be  added  whenever  the  emetic  source  is 
thought  to  warrant  a  serotonin  antagonist,  unless  a  clearly  documented  reason  for  not  using  a 
corticosteroid in that patient has been demonstrated [6]. Therefore, the SPC of palonosetron mentions 
that  the  efficacy  of  palonosetron  in  the  prevention  of  nausea  and  vomiting  induced  by  highly 
emetogenic chemotherapy may be enhanced by the addition of a corticosteroid administered prior to 
chemotherapy (see section 4.2). 
Whilst  the  efficacy  of  palonosetron  in  the  treatment  of  acute  onset  nausea  and  vomiting  has  been 
demonstrated, the data provided for the demonstration of the efficacy of palonosetron in the treatment 
of delayed nausea and vomiting have been discussed.  
The efficacy data collected between 24 and 120 hours in the pivotal trials were in accordance with the 
data observed on study day 1 and showed a sustained efficacy of palonosetron. However, these results 
were analysed as secondary endpoints and therefore were considered with caution.  
Moreover, the choice of comparator and the treatment schedule used for the comparators did not allow 
assessment of the effectiveness of palonosetron in the prevention of delayed CINV. Ondansetron and 
dolasetron were under administered in inadequate doses for treatment of delayed emesis since patients 
received only one single dose before chemotherapy, which is not in line with the recommendations for 
the individual drugs. Data on the effect of  a single dose  of these  comparators in preventing delayed 
nausea  and  vomiting  are  limited.  Moreover,  comparators  have  shorter  half  lives  (4  and  7.3  hours 
respectively for ondansetron and dolasetron) than palonosetron (40 hours) and therefore comparative 
efficacy should not be mistaken by comparison of half lives.  
In the other hand, the neuropharmacologic mechanism of nausea and vomiting of late onset is poorly 
defined.  Risk  factors  for  delayed  emesis  are  mainly  related  to  control  of  early  emesis  and  to  the 
chemotherapeutic  agent  used.  In  highly  emetogenic  CINV  the  emesis  has  multiphasic  time  courses 
whereas, in moderately emetogenic settings, emesis is described as a continuous phenomenon lasting 
for days after chemotherapy and fading off in days 4 to 5 [3, 37].  
Therefore,  palonosteron  has  been  recommended  for  the  prevention  of  acute  nausea  and  vomiting 
associated  with  highly  emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy,  and  for  the  prevention  of  nausea  and 
vomiting  associated with moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (see SPC section 4.1). 
An open-label repeat cycle trial using the higher dose of 0.75 mg (study PALO-99-06) was performed 
to  assess  the  efficacy  of  palonosetron  over  repeat  chemotherapy  cycles.  No  differences  were  noted 
regarding the efficacy profile of palonosetron compared with the  other 5-HT3 antagonists.  However, 
from  the  efficacy  point  of  view,  this  study  was  considered  of  limited  value,  since  the  efficacy  of 
palonosetron was not assessed under controlled conditions, the higher dose investigated in the pivotal 
studies was used (0.75 mg) rather than the recommended dose (0.25 mg), and the number of patients 
with three or more courses was limited. The overall safety was maintained during all cycles (see SPC 
section 5.1). 
Moreover,  palonosetron  was  shown  to  have  a  half-life  considerably  longer  than  that  of  other  5-HT3 
antagonists  (approximately 40 hours compared  to 3-12  hours) and accumulation  occurred  with daily 
doses of 0.25 mg (see PK, study PALO-02-12 and 2330). While high exposure were shown to be safe 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  well tolerated, repeated dosing  of  palonosetron  within  a seven  day interval is not  recommended 
(see SPC section 4.2). 
No  formal  study  was  conducted  in  children.  The  final  study  report  of  an  ongoing  phase  III  trial 
(PALO-99-07) to assess the safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of single i.v. 3 or 10 µg/kg dose of 
palonosetron  in  paediatric  patients  receiving  moderately  or  highly  emetogenic  chemotherapy  should 
be submitted following completion of the study. The use of palonosetron in patients under 18 years of 
age is  not  recommended  until further  data  become  available (see SPC section 4.2 and post-approval 
commitment on study PALO-99-07).  
Clinical safety 
Clinical safety data were collected from 18 clinical studies conducted with i.v. and oral palonosetron 
administered to healthy volunteers, special populations, patients with CINV and PONV. Only the 16 
single-dose  studies  were  included  in  an  Integrated  Safety  Database.  The  two  non-integrated  studies 
included  a  Phase  I  crossover  interaction  study  (PALO-99-34)  in  which  healthy  volunteers  received 
two single i.v. doses of palonosetron, and a phase III uncontrolled repeat-cycle study (PALO-99-06), 
which involved patients with CINV, previously enrolled in a phase III study.  
Adverse  events  (AE)  occurring  during  the  14-day  study  period  in  the  16  integrated  studies  were 
included in the analysis of adverse events. Deaths and serious adverse events occurring during the 30 
days  post-dose,  as  well  as  discontinuations  due  to  AEs,  were  analysed  for  all  18  clinical  studies, 
including the two non-integrated studies PALO-99-34 and PALO-99-06. 
•  Patient exposure 
A total of 3125 individuals were observed in clinical trials and included in the integrated safety data 
base  studies.  Of  these,  2348  received  palonosetron,  while  410  and  194  received  ondansetron  32  mg 
and  dolasetron  100  mg,  respectively,  and  173  received  placebo.  Of  the  2348  patients  receiving 
palonosetron, 895 patients in pivotal phase III studies enrolled in an open label continuation study and 
received more than one dose. 
Of the 3125 individuals, 2348 received a single dose (1838 i.v. and 510 oral) of palonosetron (<0.25 
mg: 341; 0.25 mg: 841; 0.75 mg: 819; 347 > 0.75 mg: 347) and of these, 1545 were treated for CINV, 
605  for  PONV  and  198  were  healthy volunteers  and  special  populations.  The  0.25  mg and  0.75  mg 
doses represent 71% of palonosetron treated patients. 
Of  the  palonosetron  treated  patients,  1374  (59%)  were  enrolled  in  the  pivotal  phase  II/III  studies.  
1838  patients  (78%)  received  i.v.  doses,  and  510  (22%)  received  palonosetron  orally.  Thirty-three 
percent  of  palnosetron  patients  received  highly  emetogenic  chemotherapy  and  32%  received 
moderately emetogenic chemotherapy.  
In  the  integrated  Phase  I,  II  and  III  studies,  the  mean  age  of  palonosetron  treated  patients  was  49.7 
years  and  18%  patients  were  at  least  65  years  old.  More  females  (64%)  than  males  (36%)  received 
palonosetron  and  the  predominant  race  studied  was  Caucasian  (67%).  There  were  slightly  higher 
numbers of females in the dolasetron group. 
Safety  in  patients  receiving  repeat  cycles  of  palonosetron  was  evaluated  from  study  PALO-99-06, 
where 895 patients were treated with palonosetron 0.75 mg in at least one chemotherapy cycle.  There 
were 446 patients receiving two cycles (50,1%), 220 receiving three (24,1%), 82 receiving four (9%), 
46 receiving five (5,2%), 20 receiving six (2,2%), 14 receiving seven (1,6%), 7 receiving eight (0,8%) 
and  3  receiving  nine  cycles  (0,3%),  for  an  overall  total  of  1726  single  treatment  cycles.  The  mean 
number of cycles was of 1,9. Corticosteroids were used in approximately 20% of the subjects in every 
cycle. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events 
A total of 1693 of 2348 (72%) palonosetron treated patients reported at least one AE. 
Overall,  gastrointestinal  symptoms  were  most  common  in  all  treatment  groups,  regardless  of 
relationship  to  study  drug,  and  were  reported  in  30%  of  patients  treated  with  palonosetron  and 
dolasetron  (708/2348  and  58/194,  respectively),  in  25%  of  patients  taking  placebo  (43/173)  and  in 
20% of patients treated with ondansetron (83/410).  Gastrointestinal symptoms ranged from 27 % at 
the  0.25  mg  dose  to  39%  in  the  over  0.75mg  dose.  Constipation  was  most  commonly  reported, 
followed by diarrhoea and abdominal pain. 
Nervous  system  AEs  were  reported  for  27%  of  palonosetron  treated  patients  (632/2348),  25%  of 
placebo patients (44/173) and 29% of patients taking the active comparators (173/604). Headache was 
most commonly reported, followed by insomnia. 
Blood  and  lymphatic  system  disorders  were  reported  for  14%  of  the  palonosetron  treated  patients 
(317/2348)  and  more  frequently  for  the  patients  treated  with  the  active  comparators  (22%  for 
ondansetron,  25%  for  dolasetron).  Metabolic  disorders  were  also  more  commonly  reported  in  the 
active comparator groups (ondansetron 15%, dolasetron 12%) than in the palonosetron groups (11%). 
From pivotal II/III studies, the most commonly reported AEs were gastrointestinal in 28% of patients 
(including  constipation  in  11%,  diarrhoea  in  6%  and  abdominal  pain  in  4%  of  patients),  nervous 
system  AEs  in  25%  of  patients  (including  headache  in  19%  of  patients),  general  AEs  in  24%  of 
patients (including fatigue, pyrexia, asthenia and weakness) and blood and lymphatic events (21%). 
The  most  frequently  events  considered  related  to  study  drug  administration  were:  headache, 
constipation,  diarrhoea,  and  dizziness.  For constipation,  within  palonosetron  treatment  groups, 
incidences  ranged  from  5%  at  the  0.25 mg  dose  to  7%  at  the  0.75 mg  dose,  while  the  comparator 
incidences  ranged  from  2%  to  6%  in  the  ondansetron  and  dolasetron  groups,  respectively.  The 
incidence  of  diarrhoea  was  1%  in  both  palonosetron  groups  (0.25  mg  and  0.75  mg)  and  2%  in  the 
comparator  groups.  The incidence  of  headache  was  similar  and  ranged  from  9%  to  12%  in  the 
palonosetron groups (0.25 mg and 0.75 mg, respectively) and from 8% to 16% in the ondansetron and 
dolasetron  patients,  respectively.  Dizziness  occurred  in  1%  of  patients  treated  with  both  doses  of 
palonosetron, while its incidence was 2% for both active comparators.  
All  common  (>1/100  to  <1/10)  and  uncommon  (>1/1  000  to  <1/100)  adverse  events  reported 
inpatients treated with palonosetron 0.25 mg are summarised in table 23. 
50 
 
 
 
 
Table 23: Common and uncommon adverse events reported in patients treated with palonosetron 0.25 
mg in phase II/III studies by SOC. 
System Organ Class 
Common 
(>  1/100 to <1/10) 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Uncommon 
(>1/1 000 to < 1/100) 
Hyperkalaemia, metabolic disorders, 
hypocalcaemia, anorexia, hyperglycaemia, 
appetite decreased 
Anxiety, euphoric mood 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Somnolence, insomnia, paraesthesia, 
hypersomnia, peripheral sensory neuropathy 
Eye irritation, amblyopia 
Motion sickness, tinnitus 
Tachycardia, bradycardia, extrasystoles, 
myocardial ischaemia, sinus tachycardia, sinus 
arrhythmia, supraventricular extrasystoles 
Hypotension, hypertension, vein 
discolouration, vein distended 
Hiccups 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, abdominal pain 
upper, dry mouth, flatulence 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Dermatitis allergic, pruritic rash 
Arthralgia 
Urinary retention, glycosuria 
Asthenia, pyrexia, fatigue, feeling hot, 
influenza like illness 
With regard to constipation, within palonosetron treatment groups, incidences ranged from 5% at the 
0.25 mg dose to 7% at the 0.75 mg dose, while the comparator incidences ranged from 2% to 6% in 
the  ondansetron  and  dolasetron  groups,  respectively.  The  incidence  of  diarrhoea  was  1%  in  both 
palonosetron groups (0.25 mg and 0.75 mg) and 2% in the comparator groups.   
The intensity of adverse events (as assessed by the investigator) of phase II/III studies, regardless of 
treatment relationship is summarised in table 23, by system organ class and treatment group. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23: Intensity of AEs in pivotal phase II/III studies by SOC (number (%) of patients) 
Palonosetron (all doses) 
N = 1374 
Active comparators (combined)a 
N = 604 
System organ class  Mild (%)  Moderate (%)  Severe (%)  Mild (%)  Moderate (%)  Severe (%) 
No AEs 
Any AEs 
44 
360 (26%) 
25 
Blood 
Cardiac 
Ear 
Endocrine 
Eye 
Gastrointestinal 
General 
Hepatic 
Immune 
Infection 
Injury/Poison 
Investigational 
Metabolic 
Musculoskeletal 
Neoplasm 
Nervous 
Psychiatric 
Renal 
Reproductive 
Respiratory 
Skin 
Surgical 
Vascular 
 8 
 5 
 1 
<1 
 1 
18 
13 
 1 
<1 
 3 
<1 
 7 
 9 
 3 
<1 
18 
 2 
 2 
 1 
 4 
 4 
 1 
 2 
a Ondansetron 32 mg (n = 410), dolasetron 100 mg (n = 194) 
10 
  1 
<1 
<1 
<1 
  9 
  9 
<1 
<1 
  3 
<1 
  6 
  5 
  3 
<1 
  6 
  1 
  1 
<1 
  2 
  2 
  1 
  2 
5 
  3 
<1 
  0 
  0 
<1 
  2 
  2 
  0 
  0 
  1 
<1 
  1 
  1 
<1 
<1 
  1 
<1 
<1 
<1 
  1 
<1 
  0 
<1 
41 
  7 
  4 
  1 
  0 
<1 
15 
15 
  1 
  0 
  3 
<1 
  6 
10 
  4 
<1 
22 
  1 
  2 
<1 
  3 
  4 
  1 
  3 
172 (28%) 
26 
13 
  1 
<1 
  0 
<1 
  7 
  5 
<1 
<1 
  3 
  0 
  6 
  3 
  2 
  0 
  6 
<1 
<1 
<1 
<1 
  2 
<1 
  1 
4 
  3 
<1 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  1 
  1 
<1 
  0 
<1 
  0 
  1 
  1 
<1 
<1 
  1 
  0 
<1 
  0 
<1 
  1 
  0 
  1 
Dose repeat study 
The incidence of AEs by patients was 74.6%, and the incidence of adverse drug reactions was 23.5%.   
Overall, 2737 AEs were reported in 1113 cycles (64,5%) of 665 patients, and the incidence of study 
drug related AEs reported by 209 subjects was 16.1% (429 AEs in 278 cycles).   
The most frequently reported AEs were headache (total cycles 14.0%), lymphopenia, leucopenia and 
neutropenia (total cycles 10.8%, 8.0% and 6.2%, respectively). Of all AEs, 429 in 278 cycles (16,1%), 
reported by 209 patients were considered treatment related; headache and constipation were the most 
frequently reported drug-related adverse events (7.7% and 3.4%, respectively).  
There  was  no  relevant  difference  between  cycles  in  terms  of  the  rate  of  drug-related  AEs.  The 
frequency  of  related  AEs  in  the  first  three  cycles  was:  20,4%,  13,3%  and  10,4%  in  cycle  1,  2  or  3 
respectively. 
Cardiac safety 
Due to the fact that 5-HT3 receptor antagonists have shown to influence cardiac ion channel function, 
resulting  in  potential  clinical  effects  on  the  depolarisation  (QRS  duration)  and  repolarisation  (QTc 
duration)  phases  associated  with  varying  degrees  of  ECG  changes,  an  extensive  programme  was 
performed on palonosetron to assess its potential cardiac conduction effects. 
ECG data from the integrated selected Phase I, II and III palonosetron clinical studies (PALO-01-18) 
revealed that palonosetron and active comparators had no clinically relevant effects on heart rate, PR, 
QRS or QT intervals and did not cause any new ECG morphological changes (conduction blocks, ST-
T waves and myocardial infarction patterns). The ECG results of the studies that were not included in 
the integrated ECG analysis (Phase II PONV [2500 and 2502], early terminated CINV study 2120, and 
late  Phase  I  studies  PALO-99-39,  PALO-99-35  and  PALO-99-51)  were  not  submitted  as  they  were 
either not evaluated by the central facility or were considered outside the scope of the evaluation. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
Holter monitoring was collected in 193 patients. Palonosetron did not produce any clinically relevant 
supraventricular  or  ventricular  arrhythmias,  including  Torsades  de  Pointes,  or  atrio-ventricular 
conduction defects.  
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.  
•  Serious Adverse Events (SAE) 
In the 16 integrated studies, a total of 135 patients treated with palonosetron (6%), 21 in ondansetron 
group (5%), 9 treated with dolasetron (5%) and five with placebo (3%), reported SAEs considered or 
not  related  to  palonosetron.  The  most  common  SAEs  reported  by  the  patients  treated  with 
palonosetron,  were  general  (n  =  30),  and  gastrointestinal  (n  =  30),  metabolic  (n = 29),  infection 
(n = 27) and blood (n = 24) disorders. For each of these SAEs, the incidence was 1%.  There were no 
differences between dose groups (range 5% to 8%) or comparators (5%).  
Eight patients had SAEs which were considered possibly or probably related to palonosetron.  Six of 
these were involved in the single dose studies. Two cases of constipation have been reported (Study 
2502 and PALO-99-35). No SAEs were reported as probably or possibly related to active comparators 
or placebo.  
•  Deaths 
Overall,  35  patients  died,  including  31  who  had  received  palonosetron  (1%)  and  four  who  had 
received ondansetron as active comparator (1%). There were no deaths among dolasetron or placebo 
patients. No deaths were considered to be related to palonosetron. Among the 31 patients treated with 
palonosetron  who  died,  28  (1%,  28/2348)  were  enrolled  in  studies  included  in  the  Integrated  Safety 
Database and three (< 1%, 3/895) were enrolled in the non-integrated repeat-cycle study PALO-99-06.  
Deaths were reported during phase II and III studies. Two of the deaths occurred in phase II studies in 
patients treated for PONV and were caused by pulmonary embolism and ovarian cancer. The other 29 
deaths (13 in phase II and 16 in phase III) occurred in patients receiving moderately or highly 
emetogenic chemotherapy for cancer and were associated with conditions not unexpected in this 
population.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Changes in haematology parameters were no different between treatment groups, and were attributed 
to chemotherapy. The most common haematology-related AEs reported for the palonosetron patients in 
phase  II/III  studies,  regardless  of  dose,  were  lymphopenia  (9%),  leucopenia  NOS  (9%),  neutropenia 
(5%), anaemia NOS (3%) and thrombocytopenia (2%).  
Transient  alteration  in  hepatic  enzymes  (elevated  transaminases)  was  observed  across  all  treatment 
groups and was considered principally related to the type of chemotherapy.  
Hypokalaemia (2%) and hyperkalaemia (1%) were observed. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The differences in incidence of AEs observed in the phase II/III trials, between age, gender or race subgroups 
were not clinically significant. 
No  specific  safety  data  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  enrolled  in  phase  II/III  studies 
were  provided.  Further  to  the  request  of  the  CHMP,  the  applicant  stressed  that  in  Phase  II  studies, 
patients with renal or hepatic impairment were excluded from enrolment, and in phase III studies, no 
special  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  applied  for  enrolment  of  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  disorders, 
meaning  that  these  patients  could  have  been  enrolled  on  the  basis  of  the  investigator’s  medical 
opinion. The information relevant to the renal and hepatic impairment was systematically recorded in 
the CRF and presented to the CHMP.  
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Study  PALO-99-34  has  been  performed  to  investigate  the  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between 
palonosetron and metoclopramide. This study was not included in the Integrated Safety Database.  
No new safety concerns were raised form this study and the safety data were consistent with the safety 
profile described in the integrated phase I, II and III studies.  
The cardiovascular safety of patients exposed to doxorubicin at doses ranging from 1 mg to > 550 mg 
(cumulative  dose  within  12  months)  during  the  pivotal  phase  III  studies,  were  also  assessed.  This 
study did not raise any safety concerns. 
•  Discontinuation due to AES 
In integrated phase I, II, III studies the rate of early discontinuation due to adverse events, regardless 
of relation to the study medication, was 0.8% in the palonosetron group, with a similar incidence in 
the ondansetron group (<1%) and between different doses of palonosetron. No patient discontinued in 
the dolasetron group. Among AEs reported by the patients treated with palonosetron who discontinued 
(n=100), eight were considered related to the medication. 
Of the 18 palonosetron treated patients who discontinued due to AEs, 14 had an outcome of death. A 
review  of  the  narratives  of  the  14  cases  showed  that  most  of  the  patients  were  elderly  and  had 
concurrent illness or symptoms which suggested that palonosetron was not causing or contributing to 
their deaths.  
•  Post marketing experience 
Palonosetron (US brand: Aloxi®) has been on the market in the US since 15 September 2003. Since 
the introduction of palonosetron to the US market, 3 quarterly safety reports have been produced. In 
the period from 15 September 2003 to 24 April 2004 (the data lock point of the third quarterly report) 
approximately 285 000 units of palonosetron have been sold.  
The applicant has provided the CHMP with a safety update based on marketing in the United States 
and with copies of the first three quarterly adverse drug experience reports for the FDA.  
Of the 52 adverse drug reactions reported in that period, 51 are spontaneous post-marketing cases, and 
1 was received from a clinical study. Nine cases were reported as serious (6 were considered serious 
and unexpected and 3 serious expected) and the remaining 43 were reported as non-serious (24 non-
serious unexpected and 19 non-serious expected).  
In the FDA letter of approval dated 25 July 2003, it was also requested that an expedited 15-day report 
be provided for any of the following adverse reactions: 
- all spontaneous reports of constipation requiring hospitalisation or emergency room visit, 
-  all  spontaneous  reports  of  possible  complications  of  constipation  such  as  obstruction,  perforation, 
intestinal  ulceration,  toxic  megacolon,  ileus  or  impaction  resulting  in  hospitalisation  or  emergency 
room visit, 
- all spontaneous reports of any cardiovascular event. 
Of the 52 adverse drug reactions, 12 were reported as expedited 15-day reports and 6 of these were 
serious  unexpected  cases;  4  of  these  6  cases  were  hypersensitivity  reactions  and  2  were  reports  of 
convulsions (one in a patient with carcinomatous meningitis and brain metastases, and the other one a 
grand mal seizure in a patient with documented cerebral infarcts).  
Expected  cases  included  headache  with  bradycardia,  influenza  like  illness  and  4  non-serious 
unexpected  cases  of  hypersensitivity  (<1/10,000)  associated  with  hypotension,  palpitations,  and 
tachycardia. 
The majority of the non-expedited unexpected reports included hypersensitivity reactions and injection 
site reactions (burning, induration, discomfort and pain). 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety profile of palonosetron was similar to that of other 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. The most 
common  adverse  events  included  headache,  constipation,  fever,  abdominal  pain,  diarrhoea,  pruritus, 
pain, asthenia and insomnia. 
In the integrated safety database studies, the incidence of adverse events was comparable between the 
palonosetron  (72%),  ondansetron  (69%)  dolasetron  (77%)  and  placebo  (61%)  groups,  as  well  as 
among  patients  receiving  different  doses  of  palonosetron.  The  most  common  AEs  reported  in  all 
treatment  groups,  regardless  of  relationship  with  study  medication,  were  the  gastrointestinal  AEs, 
followed by nervous system AEs.  
No  case  of  overdose  has  been  reported.  In  the  unlikely  event  of  overdose,  patients  should  be 
monitored with supportive care (see SPC section 4.9). 
The  adverse  events  profile  of  a  single  dose  of  palonosetron  in  a  unique  cycle,  was  similar  to 
ondansetron and dolasetron, according to the safety data obtained from controlled clinical trials. The 
most frequently adverse events related to palonosetron in pivotal phase II/III studies were headache, 
constipation, dizziness and diarrhoea occurring in 11%, 6%, 1% and 1% of patients, respectively.  
Constipation  as  an  adverse  effect  could  be  a  class  effect  of  5-HT3  antagonists  on  bowel  smooth 
muscle.  The  applicant  was  requested  to  investigate  whether  there  was  any  evidence  of  drug  related 
effects on bowel transit times. A review of the cases of constipation has shown that the incidence of 
constipation was similar to that seen with other drugs of the same class used as comparators. Patients 
with  a  history  of  constipation  or  signs  of  subactute  intestinal  obstruction  should  be  monitored 
following the administration of palonosetron (see SPC section 4.4). 
In  all  controlled  studies,  the  control  medication  was  given  as  a  single  dose  and  for  a  single  cycle, 
which does not reflect the established use conditions, where antiemetics are usually given for repeat 
cycles. 
The profile of AEs from one non-controlled repeat cycle study was consistent with the data obtained 
from single dose studies. However, this was the only repeat dose study and only 155 patients (≤ 9%) 
experienced four or more cycles. In addition, the dose used in this trial (0,75mg) was higher than the 
dose claimed for the marketing authorisation (0,25mg).  
No dose-response effect on the ECG QTc interval has been shown with palonosetron.  
However,  considering  that  5-HT3  receptor  antagonists  have  shown  to  influence  cardiac  ion  channel 
function, resulting in potential clinical effects on the depolarisation (QRS duration) and repolarisation 
(QTc duration) phases associated with varying degrees of ECG changes, a warning has been included 
in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  for  patients  with  prolonged  QT  or  receiving  concomitantly,  medicinal 
products that cause prolongation of the QT. 
There was no evidence of an effect of age, gender or race on the palonosetron safety profile. Due to 
the  small  number  of  patients  with  various  degrees  of  renal  and  hepatic  impairment  enrolled  in  each 
study, it was not possible to draw any conclusions in terms of incidence or type of adverse event in 
these  populations.  Based  on  the  available  data,  frequency  and  type  of  adverse  event  were  similar  to 
those seen in the group as a whole.  
In the absence of data on the effects of palonosetron on the ability to drive and use machines, since 
palonosetron  may  induce  dizziness,  somnolence  or  fatigue,  the  CHMP  recommends  that  patients 
should be cautioned when driving or operating machines (see SPC section 4.7). 
Post marketing data did not raise any new serious safety concerns. Very rare cases of hypersensitivity 
reactions and injection site reactions were reported and were included in the SPC. Hypersensitivity to 
the  active  substance  or  to  any  of  the  excipients  of  the  formulation  of  the  finished  product  is  a 
contraindication of the use of the medicinal product (see SPC section 4.3). 
55 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Palonosetron  hydrochloride  is  a  potent  and  selective  5-HT3  receptor  antagonist.  In  in  vivo  studies 
conducted  in  the  rat,  dog  and  ferret,  palonosetron  ameliorated  the  emetic  effects  of  cisplatin, 
dacarbazine, actinomycin-D and mechlorethamine. Cardiovascular safety investigations did not show 
any other effects than the known class effects of 5-HT3 antagonists on IKr and INa currents and action 
potentials,  but  at  very  high  palonosetron  concentrations.  Safety  pharmacology  studies  raised  little 
concern  about  the  effects  of  palonosetron  on  respiratory,  GI,  renal,  central  and  autonomic  system 
functions  at  therapeutic  doses.  The  administration  of  palonosetron  alone  or  in  combination  with 
chemotherapeutic agents affected neither the course of tumor pathology nor the anti-tumor effects of 
the  drugs.  However,  the  non-clinical  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  studies  did  not  sufficiently 
address possible clinically-relevant adverse drug interactions. 
Non-clinical  pharmacokinetics  studies  showed  that  palonosetron  was  rapidly  absorbed,  with  a  low 
bioavailability, suggesting extensive pre-systemic metabolism and that it was extensively distributed. 
Protein  binding  was  approximately  48  %  in  rat  and  66  %  in  dog  plasma.  Although  a  range  of 
metabolites was identified from animal oral studies, many were not relevant to the clinical situation, 
being  products  of  first-pass  metabolisms.  In  humans,  after  i.v.  administration,  palonosetron  remains 
the  primary  plasma  and  urine  component.  Two  major  human  metabolites,  M4  and  M9,  have  been 
identified.  Elimination  of  palonosetron  from  tissues  was  parallel  to  plasma  clearance,  except  in  the 
eye. The results from genetic toxicology investigations showed that palonosetron was not genotoxic. 
Two long-term studies assessed the carcinogenicity of palonosetron administered by oral gavage in rat 
and mouse. Increase of liver weights, keratoacanthoma were found in rats and proliferative lesions in 
the  pancreas  and  pituitary  were  observed  in  males.  These  findings  were  not  relevant  to  human  and 
were considered acceptable. The reproductive and developmental studies conducted were appropriate 
and the NOAELs were high enough to allow a reasonable assumption of safety in human. 
Efficacy  
In double-blind randomised controlled trials, a single i.v. dose of palonosetron 0.25 mg was effective 
in  the  prevention  of  nausea  and  vomiting  with  moderately  emetogenic  chemotherapy  and  in  the 
control of acute nausea and vomiting with highly emetogenic chemotherapy.  
A  single  dose  of  ondansetron  32  mg  or  dolasetron  100  mg  were  used  as  comparators.  In  terms  of 
efficacy,  palonosetron  was  non-inferior  to  the  comparators  in  the  acute  phase  of  emesis  both  in 
moderately and highly emetogenic setting, independently of whether patients had been pre-treated or 
not. However, no data on the mean number of prior cycles and the response to prior antiemetic therapy 
were provided. These studies were not designed to show an effect in late onset nausea and vomiting, 
and there were limitations for the interpretation of the efficacy after day 1 due to a non optimal use of 
comparators.  However,  considering  the  neuropharmacology  of  chemotherapy-induced  emesis, 
palonosetron  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  acute  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with  highly 
emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy,  and  for  the  prevention  of  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with 
highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. 
An  open label repeat  cycle trial using  a higher  dose  (0.75  mg) of  palonosetron  has been  performed, 
however this study was of limited value since comparative efficacy was not assessed. 
Moreover,  palonosetron  has  a  half-life  considerably  longer  than  that  of  other  5-HT3  antagonists  and 
accumulation of palonosetron occurred with daily doses of 0.25 mg. Repeated dosing of palonosetron 
within seven day interval is therefore not recommended.  
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data on the concomitant use of corticosteroids were limited, as only in study PALO-99-05 its use was 
permitted at the investigator discretion. No patients in study PALO-99-03 received corticosteroids and 
only  5%  of  the  patients  received  this  medication  in  study  PALO-99-04,  after  an  amendment  to  the 
protocol.  However,  the  evidence  from  many  published  studies  and  guidelines  suggests  that  5-HT3 
receptor  antagonists  administered  in  combination  with  corticosteroids  afford  best  protection  from 
symptoms of acute and delayed emesis. The efficacy of palonosetron in the prevention of nausea and 
vomiting  induced  by  highly  emetogenic  chemotherapy  may  be  enhanced  by  the  addition  of  a 
corticosteroid administered prior to chemotherapy. 
No  efficacy  data  were  available  in  paediatric  patients  at  the  time  of  the  assessment.  The  use  of 
palonosetron in patients under 18 years of age is not recommended until further data become available 
(see SPC section 4.2 and post-approval commitments on study PALO-99-07). 
Safety 
The safety of palonosetron was similar to the currently available 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. The most 
common  adverse  events  included  headache,  constipation,  fever,  abdominal  pain,  diarrhoea,  pruritus, 
pain, asthenia and insomnia. Preclinical studies indicated a potential to cause prolongation of the QT 
interval.  At  all  dose  levels  tested  in  clinical  studies,  palonosetron  did  not  induce  clinically  relevant 
prolongation  of  the  QTc  interval.  However,  as  for  other  5-HT3  antagonists,  caution  should  be 
exercised in the concomitant use of palonosetron with medicinal products that increase the QT interval 
or in patients who have or are likely to develop prolongation of the QT interval. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
From  a  clinical  perspective,  the  benefit  risk  relationship  was  considered  favourable.  With  a  safety 
profile  that  was  similar  to  the  currently  available  5-HT3  receptor  antagonists,  palonosetron  was 
effective  in  the  control  of  nausea  and  vomiting  with  moderately  emetogenic  chemotherapy  and  of 
acute nausea  and vomiting with highly emetogenic  chemotherapy.  The design  of a  repeat cycle  trial 
did not allow to conclude on the efficacy of palonosetron over repeated chemotherapy cycles. 
Repeated  dosing  of  palonosetron  within  a  seven-day  interval  was  not  recommended  considering  its 
important half-life and the risk of accumulation of palonosetron with daily doses of 0.25 mg.  
The efficacy of palonostetron in the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by highly emetogenic 
chemotherapy  may  be  enhanced  by  the  addition  of  a  corticosteroid  administered  prior  to 
chemotherapy. 
The  indication: “Prevention  of  acute  nausea  and  vomiting  associated with  highly emetogenic  cancer 
chemotherapy and prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy”  was  readjusted  compared  with  the  initial  proposed  wording,  in  order  to  exclude 
“Prevention  of  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with  initial  and  repeat  course  of  emetogenic  cancer 
chemotherapy” from the scope of the indication, since the pivotal studies were not designed to show 
an effect over repeated chemotherapy cycles. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk ratio of  Aloxi (palonosetron) in: the prevention of acute nausea and  vomiting associated 
with  highly  emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy  and  the  prevention  of  nausea  and  vomiting  associated 
with  moderately  emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
Walton, S.M., Advances in use of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. Expert Opin Pharmacother, 
2000. 1(2): p. 207-23. 
Miguel, R., Controlling Chemotherapy-Induced and Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting. 
Cancer Control, 1999. 6(4): p. 393-397. 
Martin, M., The severity and pattern of emesis following different cytotoxic agents. Oncology, 
1996. 53 Suppl 1: p. 26-31. 
Aapro, M.S., V. Kirchner, and J.P. Terrey, The incidence of anticipatory nausea and vomiting 
after repeat cycle chemotherapy: the effect of granisetron. Br J Cancer, 1994. 69(5): p. 957-
60. 
Stewart, D.J., Nausea and vomiting in cancer patients, ed. N.a.v.r.r.a.c. advances. 1991: Boca 
Raton. 177. 
DeVita, Cancer principle and practice of oncology. 6th edition ed. 2001: Lippincott Williams 
& Wilkins. 
Young, Mechanisms and treatment of radiation-induced nausea and vomiting, ed. N.a.v.m.a. 
treatments. 1986: Springer-Verlag. 94. 
Kris, M.G., et al., Incidence, course, and severity of delayed nausea and vomiting following 
the administration of high-dose cisplatin. J Clin Oncol, 1985. 3(10): p. 1379-84. 
Goodman & Gilman's, The pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 10th edition ed. 2001: Joel 
G. Hardman; Lee E. Limbird. 
Palacios, J.M., et al., Distribution of serotonin receptors. Ann N Y Acad Sci, 1990. 600: p. 
36-52. 
Cubeddu, L.X., et al., Antagonism of serotonin S3 receptors with ondansetron prevents 
nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens. J Clin 
Oncol, 1990. 8(10): p. 1721-7. 
Khojasteh, A., et al., Ondansetron for the prevention of emesis induced by high-dose cisplatin. 
A multi-center dose-response study. Cancer, 1990. 66(6): p. 1101-5. 
Carden, P.A., et al., Prevention of cyclophosphamide/cytarabine-induced emesis with 
ondansetron in children with leukemia. J Clin Oncol, 1990. 8(9): p. 1531-5. 
Bonneterre, J., et al., A randomized double-blind comparison of ondansetron and 
metoclopramide in the prophylaxis of emesis induced by cyclophosphamide, fluorouracil, and 
doxorubicin or epirubicin chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol, 1990. 8(6): p. 1063-9. 
Gralla, R.J., et al., Antiemetic efficacy of high-dose metoclopramide: randomized trials with 
placebo and prochlorperazine in patients with chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. N 
Engl J Med, 1981. 305(16): p. 905-9. 
Eglen, R.M., et al., Pharmacological characterization of RS 25259-197, a novel and selective 
5-HT3 receptor antagonist, in vivo. Br J Pharmacol, 1995. 114(4): p. 860-6. 
Clark, R.D., et al., 2-(Quinuclidin-3-yl)pyrido[4,3-b]indol-1-ones and isoquinolin-1-ones. 
Potent conformationally restricted 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. J Med Chem, 1993. 36(18): p. 
2645-57. 
18.  Wong, E.H., et al., The interaction of RS 25259-197, a potent and selective antagonist, with 5-
19. 
HT3 receptors, in vitro. Br J Pharmacol, 1995. 114(4): p. 851-9. 
Kuryshev, Y.A., et al., Interactions of the 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 antagonist class of 
antiemetic drugs with human cardiac ion channels. J Pharmacol Exp Ther, 2000. 295(2): p. 
614-20. 
20.  Wu, W.H., et al., Evidence that 5-HT(2) Antagonism Elicits a 5-HT(3)-Mediated Increase in 
21. 
Dopamine Transmission. J Biomed Sci, 1995. 2(2): p. 174-182. 
Pei, Q., et al., 5-HT3 receptor antagonists inhibit morphine-induced stimulation of mesolimbic 
dopamine release and function in the rat. Eur J Pharmacol, 1993. 230(1): p. 63-8. 
22.  Warburton, E.C., et al., Antagonism of amphetamine-induced disruption of latent inhibition in 
rats by haloperidol and ondansetron: implications for a possible antipsychotic action of 
ondansetron. Psychopharmacology (Berl), 1994. 114(4): p. 657-64. 
CPMP, CPMP/SWP/2145/00 - Note for Guidance on Non-Clinical Local Tolerance Testing of 
Medicinal Products (Date for coming into operation: February 2001). 2001. 
23. 
58 
 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
CPMP, CPMP/ICH/141/95 - Note for guidance on Genotoxicity: Guidance on specific aspects 
of Regulatory Genotoxicity tests for Pharmaceuticals (Date for coming into operation: 1 April 
1996). 1995. 
CPMP, CPMP/SWP/4447/00 - Note for Guidance on Environmental Risk Assessment on 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (Released for consultation July 2003). 2003. 
Scholtysik, G., Evidence for inhibition by ICS 205-930 and stimulation by BRL 34915 of K+ 
conductance in cardiac muscle. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol, 1987. 335(6): p. 
692-6. 
de Lorenzi, F.G., T.R. Bridal, and W. Spinelli, Block of the delayed rectifier current (IK) by 
the 5-HT3 antagonists ondansetron and granisetron in feline ventricular myocytes. Br J 
Pharmacol, 1994. 113(2): p. 527-35. 
Dumaine, R., et al., Actions of dolasetron and its major metabolite on guinea-pig papillary 
muscle fibres and the alfa-subunit of human heart sodium channels expressed in Xenopus 
oocytes. Drug Dev Res., 1996. 37: p. 223-230. 
29.  Williams, P.D., M.L. Cohen, and J.A. Turk, Electrocardiographic effects of zatosetron and 
ondansetron, two 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, in anesthetized dogs. Drug Dev Res., 1991. 24: 
p. 227-284. 
Kris, M.G., et al., Phase II trials of the serotonin antagonist GR38032F for the control of 
vomiting caused by cisplatin. J Natl Cancer Inst, 1989. 81(1): p. 42-6. 
Kris, M.G., et al., Dose-ranging evaluation of the serotonin antagonist GR-C507/75 
(GR38032F) when used as an antiemetic in patients receiving anticancer chemotherapy. J 
Clin Oncol, 1988. 6(4): p. 659-62. 
Hesketh, P.J. and D.R. Gandara, Serotonin antagonists: a new class of antiemetic agents. J 
Natl Cancer Inst, 1991. 83(9): p. 613-20. 
Fleiss, J.L., Statistical methods for rates and proportions, ed. W.s.i.p.a.m. statistics. 1981, 
New York: John Wiley and sons. 321. 
Lindley, C.M., et al., Quality of life consequences of chemotherapy-induced emesis. Qual Life 
Res, 1992. 1(5): p. 331-40. 
The Italian Group for Antiemetic Trials, Dexamethasone, granisetron, or both for the 
prevention of nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy for cancer. N Engl J Med, 1995. 
332: p. 1. 
Roila, F., et al., Ondansetron vs. granisetron, both combined with dexamethasone in the 
prevention of cisplatin-induced emesis. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol, 1995. 14: p. 523. 
Borison, H.L. and L.E. McCarthy, Neuropharmacology of chemotherapy-induced emesis. 
Drugs, 1983. 25 Suppl 1: p. 8-17. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
59 
 
