Summary of risk management plan for Alprolix 
(eftrenonacog alfa)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Alprolix. The RMP details important risks 
of Alprolix, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Alprolix's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Alprolix's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Alprolix should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Alprolix should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Alprolix's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Alprolix is authorised for treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with hemophilia B 
(congenital factor IX deficiency). Alprolix can be used for all age groups (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains eftrenonacog alfa (recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein) as 
the active substance and it is given by intravenous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Alprolix’s benefits can be found in Alprolix’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise 
or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Alprolix, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Alprolix's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
• 
• 
• 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Alprolix is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Alprolix are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Alprolix. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Inhibitor development to factor IX 
Serious hypersensitivity 
Important potential risks 
Serious vascular thromboembolic events 
Missing information 
None  
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Inhibitor development to factor IX 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
This is a known risk for factor IX replacement therapy, 
including Alprolix. Inhibitor development have been observed in 
the completed study in previously untreated patients (Study 
998HB303) and in the postmarketing setting.  
The causes of inhibitor development to factor IX are not known. 
Hemophilia B patients are at highest risk of inhibitor 
development to factor IX during the first 50 exposure days. 
Mutations in the factor 9 gene that confer the highest risk of 
inhibitor formation are large or gross gene deletions, which 
account for less than one quarter of hemophilia B patients. 
Robust data on risk factors specific for factor IX inhibitors are 
lacking.  
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
Recommendation for monitoring development of inhibitors by 
appropriate clinical observation and laboratory tests are 
included in SmPC section 4.4 
How to detect early signs and symptoms of inhibitor 
development in PL section 2. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System (EUHASS) 
and European Pediatric Network (PedNet) registry participation 
and data collection. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Serious hypersensitivity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
This is a known risk for factor IX replacement therapy, 
including Alprolix. Serious hypersensitivity reactions considered 
to be related to Alprolix have been observed in the completed 
study in previously untreated patients in the setting of factor IX 
inhibitor (Study 998HB303) and postmarketing setting. 
Anaphylaxis related to Alprolix has been observed in the 
postmarketing setting.  
Allergic reactions in hemophilia B patients often occur prior to 
or concomitant with inhibitor formation. The occurrence tends 
to be associated with young age, few exposure days, and a 
high-risk genotype. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or excipients is a 
contraindication, SmPC section 4.3 
Recommendation to immediately discontinue use of product 
and contact their physician if symptoms of hypersensitivity 
occur are included in SmPC sections 4.4 
Instruction to not use product if allergic to active substance or 
any other ingredients in PL Section 2. 
How to detect and handle early signs and symptoms of allergic 
reactions and anaphylaxis in PL section 2. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information:  
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System (EUHASS) 
and European Pediatric Network (PedNet) registry participation 
and data collection. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Serious vascular thromboembolic events 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Elevated levels of factor IX have been associated with a risk of 
deep vein thrombosis in the non-hemophilia population and 
there is a potential risk of thromboembolic episodes following 
the administration of factor IX products. The overall incidence 
of thromboembolic events associated with the use of 
recombinant factor IX, such as Alprolix, has not been 
established. Case reports of venous thrombosis in hemophilia 
patients in the presence of surgery have been published; 
however, the incidence remains unclear. 
Surgery, continuous infusion, and use of activated prothrombin 
complex concentrates and plasma derived factor IX were 
identified from case reports as risk factors for thromboembolic 
events in hemophilia B patients. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
Information about risk of thrombotic complications are included 
in SmPC section 4.4 
Information about risk of cardiovascular events in patient with 
existing cardiovascular risk factors is included in SmPC section 
4.4 
Information about risk of catheter-related complications, 
including catheter site thrombosis is included in SmPC section 
4.4 
Information about risk of risk of blood clots and catheter-
related complications, including catheter site thrombosis is 
described in PL Section 2. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System (EUHASS) 
participation and data collection. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II: C. 1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Alprolix. 
II.C. 2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
•  Data collection from participation in the European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System 
(EUHASS) registry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purpose of the study: To monitor the treatment safety of hemophilia B. 
•  Data collection from participation in the European Pediatric Network (PedNet) registry. 
Purpose of the study: To monitor the treatment safety of hemophilia B. 
