EMA/171272/2016  
EMEA/H/C/004142 
EPAR summary for the public 
Alprolix 
eftrenonacog alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Alprolix. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Alprolix. 
For practical information about using Alprolix, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Alprolix and what is it used for? 
Alprolix is a medicine used to treat and prevent bleeding in patients with haemophilia B, an inherited 
bleeding disorder caused by lack of a clotting protein called factor IX. It can be used in patients of all 
ages.  
Because the number of patients with haemophilia B is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Alprolix 
was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 8 June 2007. 
Alprolix contains the active substance eftrenonacog alfa. 
How is Alprolix used? 
Alprolix can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be under the supervision of a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of haemophilia. 
Alprolix is available as a powder and solvent that are mixed together to make a solution for injection 
into a vein. The dose and frequency of treatment depend on the patient’s bodyweight and whether 
Alprolix is used to treat or prevent bleeding, as well as the severity of the patient’s factor IX deficiency, 
the extent and location of the bleeding and the patient’s age and health. For further information on 
how to use this medicine, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Patients or their carers may be able to inject Alprolix themselves at home once they have been trained 
appropriately. For full details, see the package leaflet. 
How does Alprolix work? 
Patients with haemophilia B lack factor IX, a protein needed for normal clotting of the blood, and as a 
result, they bleed readily. The active substance in Alprolix, eftrenonacog alfa, works in the body in the 
same way as human factor IX. It replaces the missing factor IX, thereby helping the blood to clot and 
giving temporary control of bleeding. 
What benefits of Alprolix have been shown in studies? 
Alprolix has been shown to be effective at both preventing and treating bleeding episodes in 2 main 
studies in patients with haemophilia B. 
In the first study involving 123 adults and adolescents aged 12 years or above, patients given Alprolix 
as a weekly preventive treatment had around 3 bleeding episodes a year, patients given Alprolix as an 
every 10 days preventive treatment had around 2 bleeding episodes per year, and patients given 
Alprolix for treating bleedings on demand had around 18 bleeding episodes a year. In addition, when 
bleeding did occur, around 90% of bleeding episodes resolved with one injection of Alprolix. 
In the second study in 30 children aged below 12 years, Alprolix was similarly effective: 2 bleeding 
episodes occurred per year on average and around 75% of bleeding episodes resolved with one 
injection. 
What are the risks associated with Alprolix? 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions are seen rarely with Alprolix and include: swelling, burning and 
stinging at the injection site, chills, flushing, itchy rash, headache, hives, low blood pressure, lethargy, 
nausea and vomiting, restlessness, a fast heartbeat, tightness of the chest and wheezing. In some 
cases these reactions can become severe. 
Some patients taking factor IX medicines may develop inhibitors (antibodies) against factor IX, causing 
the medicine to stop working and resulting in a loss of bleeding control. Factor IX medicines can also 
potentially cause problems due to the formation of blood clots in the blood vessels. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Alprolix, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Alprolix approved? 
Studies show that Alprolix is effective at preventing and treating bleeding episodes in patients with 
haemophilia B and its safety is comparable to that of other factor IX products. The Agency’s Committee 
for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) therefore decided that Alprolix’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Alprolix? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Alprolix is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Alprolix, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Alprolix  
EMA/171272/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Alprolix 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Alprolix on 12 May 2016. 
The full EPAR for Alprolix can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Alprolix, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Alprolix can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2016. 
Alprolix  
EMA/171272/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
