25 February 2016 
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Alprolix 
International non-proprietary name: eftrenonacog alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004142/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product- Powder.................................................................... 14 
2.2.4. Finished Medicinal Product- Solvent ................................................................... 16 
2.2.5. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 17 
2.2.6. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 18 
2.2.7. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 18 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 18 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 18 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 18 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 22 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 23 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 25 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 25 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 28 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 28 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 28 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 32 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 40 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 40 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 42 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 42 
2.5.1. Dose response study(ies) ................................................................................. 42 
2.5.2. Main study ...................................................................................................... 42 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 73 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 77 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 77 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 82 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................... 83 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 84 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 92 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 92 
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 92 
2.9.2. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 92 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 2/98 
  
  
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 92 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 97 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 3/98 
 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
ADA 
ADR 
AE 
aPTT 
BMI 
BU 
CI 
CL 
Cmax 
CNS 
CV 
DNAUC 
DP 
DS 
ED 
EPD 
FcRn 
Fc-sc 
FIXFc-sc 
HCV 
HEK-293 
HIV 
IgG 
IgG1 
IIV 
IR 
IU 
IV 
MRT 
anti-drug antibody 
adverse drug reaction 
adverse event 
activated partial thromboplastin time 
body mass index 
Bethesda unit 
confidence interval 
clearance 
maximum observed activity 
central nervous system 
coefficient of variation 
dose-normalized area under the plasma activity time curve 
drug product 
drug substance 
exposure day 
electronic patient diary 
neonatal Fc receptor 
Fc single chain 
factor IX Fc single chain 
hepatitis C virus 
human embryonic kidney 293 cell line 
human immunodeficiency virus 
immunoglobulin 
immunoglobulin G1 
interindividual variability 
incremental recovery 
International Unit 
intravenous 
mean residence time 
NONMEM 
nonlinear mixed effect modelling 
PD 
pharmacodynamic, pharmacodynamics 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 4/98 
  
  
pdFIX 
plasma-derived factor IX 
PTP 
PUP 
Q2 
Q3 
rFIX 
rFIXFc 
rFVIIIFc 
SAE 
t1/2 
TEAE 
V1 
V2 
V3 
Vss 
WFH 
previously treated patient 
previously untreated patient 
intercompartment clearance between compartments 1 and 2 
intercompartment clearance between compartments 1 and 3 
recombinant factor IX 
recombinant factor IX Fc fusion protein 
recombinant factor VIII Fc fusion protein 
serious adverse event 
half-life 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
central volume of distribution 
volume of peripheral compartment 2 
volume of peripheral compartment 3 
volume of distribution at steady state 
World Federation of Haemophilia 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 5/98 
 
 
 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Biogen Idec Ltd submitted on 4 June 2015 an application for Marketing Authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Alprolix, through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 
3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 18 December 2014.  
Alprolix was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/07/453 on 08 June 2007. Alprolix was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: Treatment of haemophilia B 
(congenital factor IX deficiency). 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
ALPROLIX is a recombinant coagulation factor for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 
with haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency). 
Following the CHMP positive opinion on this marketing authorisation, the Committee for Orphan Medicinal 
Products (COMP) reviewed the designation of Alprolix as an orphan medicinal product in the approved 
indication. The outcome of the COMP review can be found on the Agency's website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Rare disease designations. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated that 
eftrenonacog alfa was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical 
and clinical data based on applicants own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0303/2014 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0303/2014 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance eftrenonacog alfa contained in the above medicinal product 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 6/98 
  
  
to be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of 
a product previously authorised within the Union. 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 11 June 2008, 22 October 2009, 5 
November 2009 and 22 July 2010. The Protocol Assistance pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical 
aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
Alprolix has been given a Marketing Authorisation in United States on 28 March 2014, Australia on 17 April 
2014, Canada on 20 March 2014, Japan on 4 July 2014 and New Zealand on 3 September 2015. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Andrea Laslop 
Co-Rapporteur: Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 4 June 2015. 
•  The procedure started on 25 June 2015.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 September 
2015. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 17 
September 2015. 
•  The PRAC Rapporteur’s first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC and CHMP members on 
25 September 2015  
•  During the meeting on 22 October 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 26 November 
2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint CHMP/PRAC Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 6 January 2016. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 28 January 2016, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 2 February 2016. 
•  During the meeting on 25 February 2016, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Alprolix.  
• 
The New Active Substance Report was adopted at the CHMP on 25 February 2016  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 7/98 
 
  
  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Haemophilia B (coagulation factor IX [FIX] deficiency) is a rare inherited X-linked recessive bleeding 
disorder, caused by a missing or defective FIX protein. As haemophilia B is an X-chromosome linked 
recessive disorder it is more common in men (92%) than in women- affecting ~1 in 20,000 of the male 
population worldwide (Konkle et al. 2000).  The disease is caused by coagulation factor IX (FIX) deficiency 
and classified based on remaining in vitro clotting activity, which in turn is closely associated with the 
clinical phenotype (Giangrade 2005). It manifests clinically as bleeding into joints, muscles or internal 
organs, either spontaneously or as the result of accidental or surgical trauma.  
Signs and symptoms of haemophilia B are variable; depending on severity of the factor deficiency and the 
location of the bleeding. Thereby, bleeding is characterized by spontaneous or trauma-induced 
hemorrhage into joints, muscles and soft tissues. Haemophilia may be categorised based on endogenous 
factor activity levels as severe (<1% activity), moderate (1% to 5% activity), and mild (>5% to 40% 
activity). Severe haemophilia B is characterised by spontaneous or traumatic bleeding episodes into soft 
tissues and joints, but also life-threatening gastrointestinal or intracranial bleeding may occur. Recurrent 
joint bleeding may lead to chronic arthropathy and disability.  
The primary aim of care for patients with haemophilia B is to prevent bleeding, this can successfully be 
managed with FIX replacement therapy. Besides of acute treatment of bleeding episodes, prophylactic 
treatment with the deficient clotting factor should be the goal of haemophilia therapy to preserve normal 
musculoskeletal function (World Federation of Haemophilia 2013). Replacement therapy with exogenous 
FIX provides a temporary correction of the coagulation factor deficiency by increasing FIX levels and 
thereby reducing bleeding. Therapeutic formulations of FIX are available as both plasma-derived FIX 
(pdFIX) and recombinant FIX (rFIX) products for treatment. Half-life of both pdFIX and rFIX is ~18 hours 
and prophylactic treatment is usually required 2 to 3 times a week in order to achieve a significant 
reduction of bleeding episodes. 
Current replacement therapy includes plasma-derived (pdFIX) as well as recombinant FIX (rFIX) products. 
These products are indicated for both the prophylactic and acute treatment of bleeding episodes, 
including bleeding in the perioperative setting. Although these products are generally safe and effective, 
they are limited by relatively short half-lives, which require frequent infusions to prevent and control 
bleeding episodes. 
Alprolix was developed to have a longer half-life while maintaining the activity profile of FIX as a 
treatment for haemophilia B. 
ALPROLIX (eftrenonacog alfa) is a long-acting, fully recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein 
(rFIXFc) consisting of human coagulation factor IX (FIX) covalently linked to the Fc domain of human 
immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1).  
The fusion of Fc to human FIX is based on an approach for increasing the elimination half-life of 
therapeutic proteins [Jazayeri and Carroll 2012; Wu and Sun 2014]. While the FIX moiety of rFIXFc 
retains FIX coagulation activity, the Fc component of rFIXFc binds to neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn), which 
is expressed on many adult cell types. The Fc domain is responsible for the long circulating elimination 
half-life of IgG1 through interaction with the FcRn [Roopenian and Akilesh 2007]. The same naturally 
occurring pathway similarly delays lysosomal degradation of immunoglobulins by recycling the protein 
back into circulation, and is responsible for their long plasma half-life (Figure 1).   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 8/98 
  
  
The proposed indication is: Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia B 
(congenital factor IX deficiency). ALPROLIX can be used for all age groups. 
Calculation of the required dose of recombinant factor IX Fc for “on demand treatment” is based on the 
empirical finding that 1 International Unit (IU) factor IX per kg body weight raises the plasma factor IX 
activity by 1 % of normal activity (IU/dL). The required dose is determined using the following formula: 
Required units = body weight (kg) x desired factor IX rise (%) (IU/dL) x {reciprocal of observed recovery 
(IU/kg per IU/dL)} 
For long term prophylaxis against bleeding, the recommended starting regimens are either: 
•  50 IU/kg once weekly, adjust dose based on individual response or 
•  100 IU/kg once every 10 days, adjust interval based on individual response. 
The highest recommended dose for prophylaxis is 100 IU/kg, which can be used to guide dosing in 
bleeding episodes and surgery: 
Dosing for treatment of bleeding episodes and surgery is guided according to the degree of haemorrhage 
and corresponding factor IX level required. (See SmPC section 4.2.) 
The rFIXFc clinical development program was designed in accordance with regulatory advice and the EMA 
guideline on the clinical investigation of recombinant and human plasma-derived FIX products [EMA 
(EMA/CHMP/BPWP/144552/2009). Additionally, the EMA guideline on core Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) for human plasma-derived and recombinant coagulation FIX products is 
applicable to rFIXFc and provides recommendations for information to be included in the SmPC for 
products indicated for use in haemophilia B (CHMP/BPWP/1625/1999 rev 2).  
Protocol assistance from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) was sought on the 
clinical development program, including advice on the topic of significant benefit for orphan medicinal 
products. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder and solvent for injection. Each vial contains 250IU, 500IU, 
1000IU, 2000IU or 3000IU of eftrenonacog alfa (recombinant Factor IX fusion protein (rFIXFc)) as active 
substance. 
As described in section 6.1 of the SmPC, other ingredients are:  
Powder: Sucrose, L-Histidine, Mannitol, Polysorbate 20, Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment), 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment); 
Solvent: Sodium chloride solution. 
As described in section 6.5 of the SmPC , the product is available in a Type 1 glass vial with a chlorobutyl 
rubber stopper (powder) and in a Type 1 glass pre-filled syringe with a bromobutyl rubber plunger 
stopper (5 mL solvent). Additional equipment is provided for the administration of the product: a plunger 
rod, a sterile vial adapter for reconstitution, a sterile infusion set, alcohol swab(s), plaster(s) and gauze 
pad(s). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 9/98 
  
  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
ALPROLIX is a long-acting recombinant Factor IX - Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc). rFIXFc is comprised of the 
full length coagulation Factor IX (FIX) and an Fc domain of a human antibody (IgG1 isotype) with no 
intervening linker sequence. The rFIXFc molecule is heterodimeric with an rFIXFc single chain (rFIXFc-sc) 
and an Fc single chain (Fc-sc) bound together through two disulfide bonds in the hinge region of Fc. The 
FIX portion of the molecule contributes to the blood coagulation activity, and the IgG1 Fc portion binds to 
the neonatal Fc receptor, FcRn. 
The molecular weight of rFIXFc is approximately 98 kDa. 
Recombinant FIXFc requires two protein subunits, FIXFc-sc (641 amino acids) and Fc-sc (226 amino 
acids), to assemble within a transfected cell line to form the final protein product, rFIXFc.  
Recombinant FIXFc is a complex molecule, composed of a number of functional domains, which undergo 
extensive post-translational modifications, e.g. gamma-carboxylation of the propeptide domain, 
N-glycosylation, O-glycosylation, and β-hydroxylation of the FIX part of the molecule. Furthermore, 
N-glycosylation is also expected on the Fc portion of the molecule.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The rFIXFc active substance (AS) is manufactured at Biogen Inc, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 
United States using media that is free of animal-derived components and is stored at -70 ± 10°C. 
The eftrenonacog alfa manufacturing process is well described. The main steps are fermentation, 
recovery and purification. In-process controls are listed and the applicant confirms that no reprocessing 
is foreseen.  The active substance manufacturing process is considered acceptable.  
• 
 Cell line: 
Each batch of rFIXFc active substance is produced from a working cell bank (WCB) derived from a human 
embryonic kidney [HEK] cell line.  
• 
Process: 
After thawing of a WCB vial, the culture is expanded using a series of shake flask stages followed by 
expansion through progressively larger bioreactors, used to inoculate the production culture. The culture 
suspension is harvested for purification 
• 
Purification: 
  The purification process consists of several viral clearance steps before dispensing into storage 
containers (see container-closure section). 
Control of materials 
Sufficient information on raw materials used in the active substance manufacturing process has been 
submitted. 
Raw materials used in the manufacturing process are received, tested, and stored according to 
pre-determined item specifications and are sourced from Biogen approved suppliers.  No material of 
human or animal origin is used in the manufacture of rFIXFc (further details in section “Adventitious 
agents”). Water for injections (WFI) used throughout the rFIXFc active substance manufacturing process 
complies with Ph.Eur. requirements. 
Expression system: information about the expression system was provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 10/98 
  
  
Cell line: rFIXFc is produced in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells that have been stably transfected 
with expression plasmids.  Related products, from which the desired rFIXFc is purified, are secreted into 
the cell culture media.  
A two-tiered cell bank system consisting of a Master Cell Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) has 
been created for rFIXFc active substance manufacturing.  A second WCB has been generated (under the 
same conditions, using the same medium formulation) and is qualified for use as the current WCB. 
Additional working cell banks will be prepared from the MCB. The protocol has been provided. 
Adventitious agents testing were performed on the cell banks according to the requirements of ICH Q5A 
(R1). The analysis confirmed that the cell banks are of human origin and free of bacteria, fungi, 
mycoplasma, and adventitious viruses.  No adventitious agents were detected using in vitro assays and in 
vivo assays for viruses. 
Phenotypic characterisation and stability of the WCB was investigated.  
Information was also provided on the storage, handling and stability of the cell banks (MCB, WCB) as well 
as on cell bank testing and genotypic stability. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
A comprehensive overview of the process controls and the acceptable ranges for the operation of critical 
steps in the rFIXFc active substance manufacturing process is presented in the dossier. In addition, 
process intermediates were evaluated for stability to establish hold (storage) time limits and conditions.  
Control of critical steps is based on an initial risk assessment  which was conducted to identify critical 
quality attributes (CQAs) that could potentially impact product efficacy or safety, followed by a further 
process risk assessment to identify operating parameters that may be further investigated during 
subsequent process characterisation studies. Following process characterisation, another risk 
assessment was performed to identify potential modes of failure associated with controlled parameters 
that may affect process performance or the quality of the product.  
The control strategy for the controlled parameters is based on setting of action limits.  Exceeding an 
action limit requires a manufacturing deviation to be issued and the extensive process knowledge gained 
during process characterization informs the investigation, which requires identification of root cause and 
appropriate corrective actions to minimize future excursions. A specific process is established to inform 
whether the affected batch may be released for use or not.   In process measurements are also reported 
for some parameters, which require reporting of results and is not defined as process controls or tests. 
In conclusion, the control system in place to monitor critical steps and intermediates is considered 
adequate to guarantee the consistency of production. 
Process validation  
Process validation for the rFIXFc active substance process was performed in accordance with the ICH 
guideline “Q7 Good Manufacturing Practice Guidance for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients.” In addition, 
the principles outlined in the EMA’s “Guideline on process validation for the manufacture of 
biotechnology-derived active substances and data to be provided in the regulatory submission“ 
(EMA/CHMP/BWP/187338/2014)” have been applied. 
The rFIXFc active substance manufacturing process has been validated adequately. Process validation is 
comprised of the following activities: 
•  Cell culture in bioreactors  
•  Cell culture harvest  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 11/98 
  
  
• 
Purification process  
•  Clearance validation of process-related impurities including HCP and host cell DNA  
Small-scale studies were performed during process development to define the control strategy and 
identify the parameters for validation.    
Process validation as well as some additional relevant results was provided. All results presented in the 
validation sections indicate that the rFIXFc active substance manufacturing process provides sufficient 
clearance of potential process-related impurities and that the process performs consistently. 
Manufacturing process development 
During the course of the product development, rFIXFc active substance was manufactured at three 
different sites. Throughout development of the clinical and commercial process, the cell line used for the 
production of rFIXFc has remained unchanged. A comparative investigation (including comparison of 
release testing results as well as physicochemical and biological characterisation) between different scale 
processes was performed.  
Higher HCP levels were detected in the commercial scale process compared to earlier development 
processes, however they do not give reason for safety concerns. Indeed, the safety of the product with 
these higher HCP levels was confirmed in the Phase 3 studies, indicating the commercial process is 
capable of clearing HCP to safe levels.  
Characterisation 
Extensive physicochemical and in vitro biological characterisation was conducted on the primary 
reference standard and rFIXFc AS process validation batches, manufactured using the commercial 
process. Appropriate state-of-the-art and also several orthogonal techniques were applied. The results of 
the physicochemical and in vitro biological characterization presented demonstrate the integrity and 
consistency of the structural and biochemical characteristics of the rFIXFc active substance. 
Factor IX potency: FIX potency measurement is based on the Ph.Eur. one-stage clotting assay. 
Respective assay validation was performed and the method is suitable for the intended use.  
As part of validation, a comparative study was conducted in order to evaluate differences in the results 
when different activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) reagents and coagulation instruments were 
used. The results reveal an underestimation of FIX potency when kaolin-based reagents were used.   
The applicant states that the cleavage leading to different forms observed by reducing SDS-PAGE may 
occur non-enzymatically or by other enzyme(s) during rFIXFc manufacture. The applicant was asked to 
describe the investigations carried out to identify the mechanisms involved in this cleavage during the 
manufacturing process. Uncertainties in active/inactive cleavage forms of rFIXFc determined by SDS 
PAGE were clarified.  
• 
• 
Impurities ( that are present or potentially present in the rFIXFc active substance (AS) 
manufactured using the proposed commercial manufacturing process have been 
evaluated:.Product-related impurities 
Process-related impurities including HCP and host cell DNA 
•  Contaminants: endotoxin and bioburden. 
The characterisation results demonstrate that the impurity levels in the rFIXFc active substance are 
sufficiently low to ensure drug safety, and are consistent among the rFIXFc batches manufactured to 
date.  
Overall, the characterisation is considered appropriate for this type of molecule 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 12/98 
  
  
Specification 
The specifications were developed in line with ICH Guideline Q6B. Ph. Eur. 2522 Human Coagulation 
Factor IX (rDNA) Concentrated Solution has been taken into consideration when developing the 
specifications for the active substance, where relevant. The specifications adequately control the 
physicochemical characteristics, identity, purity and biological activity of the molecule.  
Detailed method descriptions for all non-compendial methods as well as for the FIX coagulation activity 
assay were provided.  
The applicant demonstrated that the levels of impurities did not significantly increase during the finished 
product manufacturing process (further details in paragraph “Product Specification”). Since the stated 
impurities have been present in product used in clinical trials, their presence in the commercial FP is 
considered clinically qualified.  The applicant was requested to tighten specified limits during the review 
process to ensure satisfactory product control and consistency. 
Although the CHMP considers the specifications adequate to control AS/FP, recommendations are made 
for submission of further batch data to determine, based on additional manufacturing experience, if 
certain specifications may be tightened further to assure enhanced product. 
Analytical Methods 
The analytical methods applied are adequately described and validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. 
In particular, the Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) method was successfully validated for 
determining the identity and biological activity of rFIXFc AS and FP for release and stability.  
Batch analysis 
The data of batch analyses for the batches manufactured at different scales, including commercial scale, 
are provided in the dossier.  
The release specifications were revised over the development of the product; all batches met their release 
specifications in place at the time of release  
Reference Standards 
Biogen has established a primary reference standard (PRS) and qualified two working reference standards 
(WRS) for use in the testing and characterisation of rFIXFc. Selection and qualification of future working 
reference standards is explained in the dossier and information on stability is given. 
A confirmation was given that newly established primary reference standards will be calibrated against 
the current WHO International Standard for FIX. 
Container closure system 
The rFIXFc active substance is stored at -70 ± 10 °C in containers that have been qualified for long-term 
storage, and shipping studies were performed in order to validate their use.   
Stability 
Stability data for rFIXFc active substance on batches manufactured using the commercial process were 
provided. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance is sufficiently stable and justify the proposed shelf 
life of 48 months at -70±10ºC for the active substance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 13/98 
  
  
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative 
trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA.  
New Active Substance 
The Applicant stated that eftrenonacog alfa is a biological substance not previously authorised as a 
medicinal product in the European Union and requested that eftrenonacog alfa contained in ALPROLIX to 
be considered a new active substance (NAS) in itself. 
Eftrenonacog alfa is a fully recombinant fusion protein comprising of the full length coagulation Factor IX 
(FIX) covalently linked to the Fc domain of human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1). 
Based on the assessment of the submitted data CHMP concluded that eftrenonacog alfa is a new active 
substance that has not been authorised European Union previously. From a quality perspective, it can be 
regarded as a NAS in itself.   
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product- Powder 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The rFIXFc finished product is a lyophilized powder in a vial which is reconstituted with 5ml sodium 
chloride solution from a pre-filled syringe. The finished product is supplied in strengths of 250, 500, 1000, 
2000, and 3000 IU per vial. The excipients chosen for rFIXFc finished product have a history of use in 
commercial biopharmaceutical formulations, and have been widely used for intravenous administration. 
All excipients are of compendial grade and tested as described in the current compendial monographs.   
The finished product is formulated with L-Histidine, mannitol, sucrose and polysorbate 20, sodium 
hydroxide (for pH adjustment) and hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment).   
The rFIXFc finished product is lyophilized in a USP/Ph. Eur. Type I glass vial.  The vials are closed with a 
chlorobutyl stopper.  The stoppered vials are sealed with aluminum seals with a flip off cap of various 
colours, dependent on vial strength. All strengths use the same container closure system.   
Representative Certificates of Analyses for each component have been submitted. Those parts which are 
in contact with the product comply with the respective Ph. Eur. monographs. 
The development of the rFIXFc finished product formulation was completed in several stages during 
clinical development. Pre-formulation studies were conducted to evaluate different parameters and 
degradation profiles.  
A liquid formulation of rFIXFc was developed for preclinical studies and Phase 1/2a clinical trials. A 
lyophilized rFIXFc powder for solution for injection was subsequently developed for Phase 3 pivotal clinical 
trials and commercial use. 
Development of the product for the Phase1/2a studies was performed at a development site, however 
product development for Phase 3 trials and commercial use occurred at a different site. The technology 
transfer included development and process optimizations in order to achieve a suitable manufacturing 
process for clinical and commercial finished product supply. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacturers and sites performing control testing and release on the finished product were provided. 
There are no product overages; however, there is an overfill to ensure the correct delivered dose. 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules 
Governing Medicinal products in the European Union 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 14/98 
  
  
                                                
The manufacturing process for the rFIXFc finished product consists of the following steps: buffer 
preparation, thawing and pooling of rFIXFc active substance, compounding, filling and lyophilization, final 
packaging and inspection, prior to shipping, labeling and secondary packaging. 
The applicant confirms that no reprocessing steps are foreseen for the manufacture of finished product. 
Shipping studies were used to qualify the method of transport for active substance, finished product, 
solvent syringes, and finished goods. In all instances, the shipping methods discussed demonstrated 
adequate robustness to qualify the method of transport. The shipping methods ensure that product 
temperature is maintained and package integrity is preserved. 
The process controls and the acceptable ranges for the operation of critical steps in the rFIXFc finished 
product manufacturing process are described. These controls have been established to direct the unit 
operations, monitor performance, and ensure that the process operates in a manner consistent within the 
process design parameters. The controls, action limits, in-process specifications, and rationale for 
parameters that are most important for maintaining process and product consistency are discussed. The 
process controls described in this section are those that have been identified as important to monitor 
consistent performance of the process. Hold times are listed and are supported by data generated using 
the validated process.  
Process Validation is comprised of the following activities: process consistency, hold times, and aseptic 
manufacturing conditions. 
Process consistency validation of the rFIXFc finished product manufacturing process was demonstrated 
by the acceptable completion of validation runs according to pre-specified protocols. Several lots of 
finished product were successfully manufactured at the proposed highest and lowest commercial doses.  
Lots were manufactured at maximum and minimum lot sizes.  Supplemental validation was also executed 
for the intermediate strengths.  These supplemental lots provided additional demonstration of process 
consistency.  
The applicant has sufficiently justified that the detected extractables (generated under worst case 
conditions) do not pose a toxicological concern or a risk to patient safety. 
Product specification 
The commercial release and stability specifications for all rFIXFc finished product strengths   include tests 
for: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
identity 
biological activity  
purity and impurities  
quantity 
safety 
physicochemical characteristics 
Specifications are common across all strengths of the finished product, with few exceptions. For these 
attributes, the appropriate adjustments have been made to the limits in the higher strength presentations 
compared to the lowest strength presentation. 
Impurities present or potentially present in rFIXFc finished product are the same as those present or 
potentially present in rFIXFc active substance. The release and characterisation test results indicate that 
the levels of impurities are low and consistent across rFIXFc finished product lots and strengths. In 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 15/98 
  
  
addition the results demonstrate that the levels of impurities did not significantly increase during the 
finished product manufacturing process.  
The acceptance criteria for release testing were established based on a combination of: clinical 
experience, rFIXFc finished product lot release data, manufacturing capability and consistency, analytical 
test method capability, developmental studies, regulatory guidelines, and pharmacopoeial monographs. 
For each quantitative quality attribute, the range of results seen in the rFIXFc finished product batches 
manufactured for commercial or clinical use was subjected to statistical analysis to confirm that the 
commercial specifications adequately reflect an acceptable level of consistency and process capability.  
Analytical methods 
The analytical procedures have been briefly described; all non-compendial analytical methods have been 
validated for all strengths of rFIXFc finished product testing in accordance with ICH principles. 
Batch analysis 
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  presented  for  finished  product  manufactured  from  active  substance 
produced  with  different  scale  processes  and  using  the  commercial  process  at  the  finished  product 
manufacturing  site.  All  batches  met  the  release  specification  valid  at  the  time  of  release  and  confirm 
consistency.  
Stability of the product 
Based on the provided data, a 48-month shelf-life is agreed for all rFIXFc lyophilized FP strengths at the 
long-term storage temperature of 2 to 8°C. Within the 48-month shelf-life period, storage of up to 6 
months at room temperature (not to exceed 30°C/86°F) is also agreed, to allow flexibility to the patient 
prior to dosing. After storage at room temperature, the product may not be returned to the refrigerator. 
A bracketed stability study design was applied to the finished product stability lots manufactured from the 
commercial scale active substance. The bracketing was designed in accordance with ICH Guideline Q1D 
Bracketing and Matrixing Designs for Stability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products to include 
process validation lots at the low and high end of the bracket. Additional strengths of finished product 
were introduced later in development, and the stability study bracket was expanded to accommodate 
these additional strengths.  
 Photo-stability studies were also performed, and have demonstrated that the secondary packaging 
provides acceptable protection from light exposure.  
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative 
trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA  
2.2.4.  Finished Medicinal Product- Solvent 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
All relevant information has been provided by the applicant about the solvent: an aseptically filled, 
terminally sterilized sodium chloride solution used for the reconstitution of all strengths of the rFIXFc 
lyophilized finished product. The solvent is supplied as a 5 mL fill in a single-use prefilled syringe.  
An extensive leachable and extractable study was performed for solvent syringes and demonstrates the 
suitability of the syringe components.   
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 16/98 
  
  
                                                
A container closure integrity test has shown that the seal integrity of the rFIXFc solvent syringe container 
closure system remains integral during long-term storage.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The rFIXFc solvent is manufactured, tested, stored, labeled, and packaged in accordance with current 
Good Manufacturing Practice. The rFIXFc solvent is filled into the syringes and terminally sterilized. Three 
commercial scale lots of solvent for rFIXFc were manufactured during the validation campaign.  
Specific parameters measured during the solvent manufacturing process are considered critical (CIPT, 
CCP or CIPC) and are controlled to ensure a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process. This 
results in finished product that meets quality release specifications. 
Product specification 
Analytical methods 
All used analytical procedures are consistent/comply with the respective Ph. Eur. monographs. 
Batch analysis 
Solvent  batch  release  results  are  provided.  The  data  indicate  consistent  manufacture  of  the  solvent, 
meeting its predefined specifications and quality attributes. 
Stability of the product 
Based on the stability data for all lots, a 48-month shelf life is proposed for the rFIXFc solvent from the 
date of manufacture when stored at 2 to 30°C. 
Solvent lots from the clinical and process validation campaigns put on stability were manufactured using 
the same formulation and filled in the same container closure as will be used for commercial manufacture.  
Comparability exercise for finished medicinal drug product 
N/A 
Adventitious agents 
The following efforts are taken by the manufacturer in order to ensure safety with regard to adventitious 
agents: no material of human or animal origin is used in the manufacture of rFIXFc; adventitious agents 
testing are performed on the cell banks; and the manufacturing process has sufficient capacity for the 
reduction of viral particles. The effectiveness of these process steps has been sufficiently demonstrated 
for their capacity to remove viruses. 
Viral safety is considered sufficiently assured for rFIXFc as appropriate overall reduction factors for all 
viruses investigated were presented.  
Virus validation reports were provided for all the viral clearance process steps investigated.  
GMO 
N/A 
2.2.5.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 17/98 
  
  
2.2.6.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.7.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends further points for investigation (see DS specifications). 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The pharmacology program utilized in vitro and in vivo assays to extensively characterize the coagulation 
properties of rFIXFc. The Fc domain was added to provide a longer elimination half-life for rFIXFc, but it 
was also critical to demonstrate that the Fc domain did not interfere with the ability of the FIX domain to 
properly interact with other members of the coagulation cascade. The recombinant coagulation factor IX 
Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc, BIIB029) was characterized in non-GLP single-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) 
studies performed in normal mice, FIX-knockout (haemophilia B [HemB]) mice, FcRn knockout mice, 
hFcRn transgenic mice, Sprague Dawley rats, HemB dogs, and cynomolgus monkeys. 
The toxicology program for the recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc, BIIB029) was 
designed to support chronic administration for the treatment of haemophilia B. rFIXFc has been evaluated 
for its toxicological effects in 2 species, Sprague Dawley rats and cynomolgus monkeys, as well as for 
local tolerance and thrombogenic potential in New Zealand White rabbits. The GLP toxicology studies in 
rats and monkeys were repeat-dose studies of up to 4 weeks and 27 weeks, respectively. No single-dose, 
acute toxicology, nor juvenile toxicology studies were conducted with rFIXFc. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In vitro characterization assays, including interactions with phospholipid surfaces, formation of the 
Tenase complex, and inhibition by ATIII, demonstrated that the post-translational modifications of rFIXFc 
were comparable to BeneFIX. The greater than 30-fold increase in residual activated FIXa in BeneFIX 
accounted for increased thrombin generation in the TGA assay. Although the specific activity of rFIXFc is 
approximately 2-fold lower on a molar basis when compared to BeneFIX, this should have no effect on the 
dosing of patients. 
In vivo Studies were performed to demonstrate that the prolonged elimination half-life of rFIXFc resulted 
in prolongation of PD effects and efficacy in FIX-deficient animals. Comparisons with BeneFIX were used 
to establish the relationships among PK, PD, and efficacy. 
The nonclinical PD evaluations of rFIXFc as a long-acting FIX were performed by dosing via intravenous 
(IV) infusion in HemB mice and dogs. IV infusion is the route of administration in the clinical treatment of 
haemophilia B. 
The recombinant protein rFIXFc of this replacement therapy is designed to restore native factor IX by 
genetic fusion of the native Thr148 allelic form of human plasma-derived factor IX with an IgG1 Fc single 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 18/98 
  
  
chain fragment, connected with a second Fc single chain through disulfide bonds. Genetic fusion of the FIX 
subunit with the Fc single chain is generated with no intervening sequence. This design of the construct 
aims to extend serum persistence of the construct due to pH dependent binding to FcRn, while 
maintaining FIX subunit activation by the same enzymes which activate FIX. The active ingredient carries 
quite complex posttranslational modifications.  
Table 1: in vivo Primary pharmacodynamic studies   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 19/98 
 
  
  
The clotting activity of the construct as measured in the one-stage clotting assay showed about 2-fold 
lower specific activity on a molar basis for rFIXFc in comparison to BeneFIX. Consequently a series of 
chromogenic assays characterized the enzymatic activity of rFIXFc. Titration of FXIa-activated FIXa-Fc 
and BeneFIXa with Antithrombin III showed that Antithrombin III inhibited the activity of FIXa-Fc when 
present at equal or greater molar ratios.  The same method determined the concentration at which the 
Antithrombin III inhibition of active FIX was relieved, and showed that that FXIa-activation of FIXFc and 
BeneFIX generated around 90% FIXa-Fc and around 97% BeneFIXa. Incubation of FVIIa/TF with FIXFc 
and BeneFIX converted FIX-Fc and BeneFIX completely to its activated forms. Only when FIXFc or 
BeneFIX was activated with FXIa, in the presence of FVIIIa and cephalin as a source of phospholipids, the 
Tenase complex formed with a significantly increased rate of FXa generation. In absence of FVIIIa, or 
prior activation with FXIa or in absence of phospholipids the rate of FXa generation was significantly 
decreased.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 20/98 
 
 
  
  
A 35-40 fold lower level of activated FIX in rFIXFc (in comparison to BeneFIX) was detected by measuring 
the rate of FXa generation by FVIIIa and FXIa-activated FIXFc or BeneFIX compared to that by FVIIIa and 
different levels of non-activated forms. BeneFIX seems to contain about 0.2-0.4% FIXa, which is 
consistent with result of the FIXa ELISA, detecting about 0.1% activated FIX in BeneFIX and <0.006% in 
FIXFc. 
Measuring the rate of FXa generation after addition of FIXa at increasing concentrations to fixed 
concentrations of phospholipids, FX, calcium ions and FVIIIa reflects the interaction between FIXa and 
FVIIIa and showed similar Kd values for FIXa-Fc (1.74 ± 0.1 nM) and BeneFIX (1.55 ± 0.1 nM) and both 
molecules exhibited similar Vmax (FIXa-Fc 4.4 ± 0.1 nM/min, and BeneFIXa 4.0 ± 0.1 nM/min).Further 
results generated by two variants of this method using cephalin or platelets instead of phospholipids 
generally confirmed similar affinities and Vmax values for the interaction of FIXa-Fc and BeneFIXa with 
FVIIIa.   
Kinetics of FX activation by FXIa-activated or FVIIa/TF-activated FIX/FVIIIa-based Tenase complex using 
phospholipids exhibited similar kinetics towards the FX substrate. These results were confirmed by 
assaying FX activation kinetics by FIXa-Fc and FVIIIa-based Tenase complex on platelets and on activated 
platelets. 
Additionally, the activity of FIXa towards the FIXa substrate was similar for FXIa-activated FIXFc and 
BeneFIX over a range of FIXa concentrations ranging from 0.025 to 12.5 nM. 
Thus in vitro studies confirmed that functionality of the FIX subunit was retained as shown with 
comparable activation kinetics, similar FXase complex formation and comparable affinity of Xase complex 
formed by FIXFc towards FX. Different in vitro thrombin generation activity per unit of FIX activity 
between rFIXFc and BeneFIX was shown to be based on minor amounts of activated FIX in BeneFIX, not 
present in rFIXFc.  
Comparable peak clotting activities are reported 15 minutes after single or multiple administration of 
equal activity doses of rFIXFc or BeneFIX to HemB mice, whereas prolonged PD effect was detectable only 
for rFIXFc, which correlated well with PK data (based on rFIXFc specific ELISA) (Report No. R-FIX-017). 
Prolonged clotting activity was confirmed by a study in HemB dogs, as measured by whole blood clotting 
time and aPTT (Report No. R-FIX-014). Acute efficacy studies in HemB mice finally indicated in vivo 
efficacy by simulating bleeding phenotypes ranging from normal to severe haemophilia with the tail clip 
bleeding model. Prophylactic efficacy study in HemB mice applying rFIXFc 72 hours prior tail vein 
transection (TVT), while infusing BeneFIX 24 hours prior TVT showed similar percentages of survival, 
supporting evidence for a longer duration of protection for rFIXFc.   
Binding of rFIXFc to FcRn from rats, monkeys and humans measured by surface plasmon resonance was 
comparable to binding of hIgG to FcRn of different species, indicating higher affinity toward rat FcRn 
(Report No. R-FIX-042) and supporting the selection of rats and monkeys for RDTSs. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No studies on secondary pharmacodynamics were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical 
pharmacology). 
Safety pharmacology programme  
Safety pharmacology studies were not submitted with rFIXFc, but relevant safety pharmacology 
parameters which included the cardiovascular system, central nervous system, or respiratory system 
were measured and included as part of the repeat-dose toxicology studies in rats or cynomolgus monkeys 
(See repeat toxicity studies). 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 21/98 
  
  
Non-clinical studies on interactions of rFIXFc with other drugs have not been submitted (see discussion on 
non-clinical pharmacology). 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc, BIIB029) was characterized in non-GLP 
single-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) studies performed in normal mice, FIX-knockout (haemophilia B 
[HemB]) mice, FcRn knockout mice, hFcRn transgenic mice, Sprague Dawley rats, HemB dogs, and 
cynomolgus monkeys. 
Different analytical methods were developed to support the nonclinical PK studies of rFIXFc, including 
assays to measure plasma levels of rFIXFc antigen (ELISA) and activity (one-stage aPTT assay). In rats 
and mice, direct comparisons were made with the PK of rFIX (BeneFIX®), while in dogs and monkeys only 
rFIXFc was tested and compared with previously published results with BeneFIX and plasma-derived FIX 
(Mononine®) 
In addition, PK parameters were determined in repeat-dose GLP toxicology studies, in which some 
animals developed anti-drug antibodies. Nonclinical PK comparability studies were also conducted to 
complement the assessment of analytical comparability to support rFIXFc manufacturing changes made 
during the course of development. 
FcRn knockout mice [Roopenian 2003] were used to demonstrate that the FcRn receptor is needed to 
achieve the longer elimination half-life observed for rFIXFc compared to rFIX, since the elimination 
half-life advantage of rFIXFc was lost in the absence of FcRn, while it was restored in human FcRn 
transgenic mice. 
Table 2: PK and toxicology studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 22/98 
 
 
  
  
In all species, rFIXFc showed more than a 3-fold longer elimination half-life than rFIX. Together, these 
studies support the potential of rFIXFc to provide a prolonged protective haemostatic effect, resulting in 
the need for less frequent dosing of rFIXFc as compared to FIX, while maintaining the protection needed 
for prophylaxis in humans with FIX deficiency. In a placental Transfer of rFIXFc in Pregnant Female Factor 
IX Deficient (HemB) Mice (R-FIX-048) the extent of rFIXFc transfer from pregnant females to her pups 
ranged from 1.7% to 3.7% with an average transfer of 2.6% ± 0.60%. at 24 or 48 hours post-infusion. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No single-dose toxicity studies were conducted with rFIXFc. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The toxicology program for the recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc, BIIB029) was 
designed to support chronic administration for the treatment of haemophilia B. 
Description and key findings from non-GLP and GLP studies are presented in the tables 8 and 9 below: 
Table 3: non-GLP pilot toxicology studies conducted with rFIXFc 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 23/98 
 
 
  
  
Table 4: GLP repeat-dose toxicology studies conducted with rFIXFc 
rFIXFc has been evaluated for its toxicological effects in 2 species, Sprague Dawley rats and cynomolgus 
monkeys, as well as for local tolerance and thrombogenic potential in New Zealand White rabbits. The GLP 
toxicology studies in rats and monkeys were repeat-dose studies of up to 4 weeks and 27 weeks, 
respectively.  
Male and female animals were used in the GLP toxicology studies in rats and monkeys. The highest dose 
used in the toxicology studies, 1000 IU/kg, was 10 times higher than the highest routine dose of 100 
IU/kg and 6.7 times higher than the highest dose of 150 IU/kg allowed for surgery or major bleeding 
episodes in the clinical studies. 
Liquid formulations of the drug substance were used in the GLP repeat-dose toxicology studies in rats and 
monkeys. The lots of rFIXFc used in these studies are representative of the material used in the clinical 
studies and intended for commercial use (specific activity was approximately 60 IU/mg for these 
toxicology lots). 
Following completion of the GLP repeat-dose toxicology studies, a lyophilized formulation of rFIXFc was 
developed which was compared to the liquid formulation in studies of local tolerance and thrombogenic 
potential in rabbits.  
Genotoxicity 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 24/98 
 
 
 
  
  
Genotoxicity studies have not been submitted (see discussion on non-clinical pharmacology).  
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been submitted (see discussion on non-clinical pharmacology.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental studies have not been submitted (see discussion on non-clinical 
pharmacology). 
Toxicokinetic data 
N/A 
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance was monitored in the 3 repeat-dose toxicology studies by gross and microscopic 
evaluations of the IV injection sites. In addition, a single-dose local tolerance study (ASL00018) was 
conducted in rabbits using IV and paravenous (PV) dosing. Two formulations (liquid and lyophilized) of 
rFIXFc were evaluated in this local tolerance study using 20 male New Zealand White rabbits. In 
comparison to microscopic findings in control animals or control injection sites, there were no 
exacerbated local reactions due to administration of rFIXFc.  
There were microscopic findings (mixed cell dermal inflammation and dermal edema) at some sites where 
lyophilized rFIXFc was administered; however, sites where vehicle or negative controls or frozen liquid 
rFIXFc (IV and PV) were administered were also affected at a similar incidence and severity. The 
microscopic findings were not attributed to IV or PV lyophilized rFIXFc administration. 
Lyophilized rFIXFc drug product administered at 566 IU/mL as a single IV injection or a single PV injection 
to New Zealand White rabbits was well tolerated and produced similar results compared to a single IV or 
PV injection of frozen liquid rFIXFc drug product or vehicle or negative controls. 
There were no adverse changes attributed to lyophilized rFIXFc administration. 
Other toxicity studies 
Relatively crude, plasma-derived FIX products have demonstrated thrombogenic activity in clinical use 
[Coppola 2012; Scharrer 1995]. Therefore, the thrombogenic potential of rFIXFc was evaluated in the 
Wessler stasis model using New Zealand White rabbits in 2 separate studies. In addition to saline and 
vehicle controls, BeneFIX, and a positive control (Profinine® SD, a plasma derived non-activated FIX 
concentrate that also contains prothrombin, factor X and low levels of factor VII) were used. rFIXFc seems 
to have a low thrombogenic risk as results from the Wessler stasis model indicate. Mean thrombi scores 
of rabbits treated with rFIXFc (liquid and lyophilized formulations) from both Wessler studies were similar 
to mean thrombi scores from rabbits treated with saline or vehicle. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The active substance is a protein, the use of which will not alter the concentration or distribution of the 
substance in the environment. Therefore, rFIXFc is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
In support of the nonclinical developmental program for the recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion 
protein (rFIXFc, BIIB029) the preclinical developmental program was designed to support chronic 
administration for the treatment of haemophilia B. The design of the product aims to extend serum 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 25/98 
  
  
persistence due to pH dependent binding to FcRn, while maintaining FIX subunit activation by the same 
enzymes which activate FIX. The active ingredient carries quite complex posttranslational modifications. 
rFIXFc behaves similarly to BeneFIX in a number of in vitro characterization assays. The comparisons 
between rFIXFc and BeneFIX were performed in FXa generation assays that utilized preformed Tenase 
complex.  
The in vivo studies demonstrated an improved PD profile that correlated with the enhanced PK properties 
(eg, increased half-life) observed for rFIXFc relative to BeneFIX. Dosing rFIXFc on an equal activity basis 
to BeneFIX produces comparable acute activity but prolonged ability to correct the clotting defect in the 
HemB mouse and HemB dog models. 
In an acute efficacy model in HemB mice, rFIXFc is comparable to BeneFIX, while in a prophylactic 
bleeding model, rFIXFc results in 3-fold longer lasting protection compared to BeneFIX. Thus, rFIXFc is 
comparable to BeneFIX when dosed on potency to treat acute bleeding episodes, but results in sustained, 
long-acting prophylactic procoagulant activity and survival relative to BeneFIX at later time points. The 
survival protection provided by rFIXFc and BeneFIX for HemB mice post-TVT activities also suggests that 
the plasma FIX activity determined by the one-stage clotting assay (FIX-specific aPTT) could be used to 
predict efficacy. 
Studies in HemB mice demonstrated similar sustained clotting activity (aPTT) for rFIXFc liquid DP from 
small clinical scale DS and lyophilized DP from large clinical scale DS. Similar acute clotting activity 
(ROTEM), but sustained activity in HemB mice compared to BeneFIX, was also shown for lyophilized DP 
from the large clinical and commercial DS scales. These PD studies demonstrated comparability, thus 
supporting the use of rFIXFc from the different manufacturing processes in GLP toxicology studies and 
clinical studies. 
The absence of secondary PD and PD drug interaction studies as well as the integration of safety 
pharmacology measurements into the RDTSs is acceptable in view of the nature of the compound. 
The primary PD studies demonstrated the long-acting clotting activity of rFIXFc in 2 animal models of 
haemophilia B compared to a currently licensed rFIX product (ie, BeneFIX). This prolonged clotting 
activity correlated with a prolonged survival benefit in haemophilia B bleeding model. Therefore, the 
results of the in vitro and in vivo PD studies support the clinical development of rFIXFc. Since no 
secondary pharmacodynamic effects are expected, the omission of studies on secondary 
pharmacodynamics is acceptable. 
In all nonclinical PK studies, rFIXFc was administered either by IV bolus injection or infusion in order to 
model the route of administration in the clinic. The analytical methods that were developed to support the 
nonclinical PK studies of rFIXFc include assays to measure plasma antigen concentrations of rFIXFc 
(ELISA) and assays to measure FIX activity (one-stage aPTT assay). 
FcRn knockout mice [Roopenian 2003] were used to demonstrate that the FcRn receptor is needed to 
achieve the longer elimination half-life observed for rFIXFc compared to rFIX, since the elimination 
half-life advantage of rFIXFc was lost in the absence of FcRn, while it was restored in human FcRn 
transgenic mice. 
The provided PK studies demonstrate that rFIXFc has an extended half-life and support the potential of 
rFIXFc to provide a prolonged protective haemostatic effect with less frequent dosing of rFIXFc compared 
to FIX. 
Non-GLP pilot studies were conducted in both rats (N-FIX-003) and monkeys (N-FIX-002A) to determine 
the tolerability of repeat dosing of rFIXFc and to assess the development of antibodies to rFIXFc. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 26/98 
  
  
Both rats and monkeys were selected as relevant toxicology species using several criteria: mechanism of 
action of rFIXFc (replacement clotting factor), slower plasma clearance of rFIXFc (binding to FcRn) 
compared to an rFIX comparator, BeneFIX, and historical database. Rabbits have historically been used 
for local tolerance and thrombogenicity studies. 
In both of these species, IV dosing was well-tolerated for up to 7 weeks (rats; twice weekly dosing) or 8 
weeks (monkeys; once weekly dosing). Antibodies against rFIXFc were detected in rats and monkeys in 
the three repeat-dose toxicity studies. In both species, the antibody response was dose-related (noted as 
an increase in incidence and endpoint titer). The detected antibodies were “clearing” antibodies, which 
resulted in more rapid elimination of administered rFIXFc later in the study, compared to the PK profile 
following the first dose on SD1. Following development of these antibodies, mean AUC remained 
dose-dependent in both rats and monkeys, although the absolute values were lower compared to SD1 
values. 
The development of antibodies to rFIXFc is an expected finding in rats and monkeys since the test article 
is a foreign protein to both species (rFIXFc consists of a single molecule of human FIX fused to the Fc 
domain of human IgG1 without any intervening sequence). Despite the development of antibodies to 
rFIXFc, the toxicology of rFIXFc was adequately assessed in these repeat dose studies. The dosing was 
frequent enough to maintain exposure throughout the dosing periods. 
The early death of 1 monkey at the lowest dose of 25 IU/kg was considered not to be related to the 
administration of rFIXFc. Although the cause of death was not determined for this animal, repeat dosing 
was well-tolerated in the same study at doses of 100 and 500 IU/kg. Furthermore, repeat dosing for 27 
weeks was well-tolerated at doses of 50, 200 and 1000 IU/kg in a GLP study in monkeys (N102015). 
Due to the lack of significant adverse toxicological findings in the 5-week study in monkeys, even with the 
development of antibodies, a 27-week study was conducted. In the 27-week study, there was no 
indication that the anti-rFIXFc antibodies cross-reacted with endogenous FIX. There was no evidence of 
organ toxicity due to antibody/antigen complex formation, as there were no histopathological changes in 
rats or monkeys treated with rFIXFc. 
The results of these 2 pilot studies provided sufficient information for selection of dose and frequency of 
administration of rFIXFc in repeat-dose GLP toxicology studies in rats and monkeys. Based on plasma 
elimination half-lives of approximately 1 day in rats and approximately 2 to 3 days in monkeys, dosing 
frequencies were chosen to be every 4 days in rats and weekly in monkeys. These dosing frequencies 
ensured that animals in all GLP repeat-dose studies were exposed to rFIXFc on a continuous basis, with 
concentrations fluctuating between Cmin and Cmax. 
Consistent with ICH S6 Guideline (1997) and Addendum (ICH S6(R1), 2012), genotoxicity tests have not 
been conducted with rFIXFc since there is no known mechanism by which rFIXFc can interact with DNA 
[Gocke 1999. Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with rFIXFc as based on a 
weight-of-evidence approach and consistent with the ICH S6 Guideline (1997) and Addendum (ICH 
S6(R1)). The lack of such data is addressed in the SmPC section 5.3. 
The active substance is a natural substance, the use of which will not alter the concentration or 
distribution of the substance in the environment. Therefore, rFIXFc is not expected to pose a risk to the 
environment. 
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with ALPROLIX. Based on the rare occurrence of 
haemophilia B in women, experience regarding the use of factor IX during pregnancy and breast-feeding 
is not available. Therefore, factor IX should be used during pregnancy and breast-feeding only if clearly 
indicated. In a placental Transfer of rFIXFc in Pregnant Female Factor IX Deficient (HemB) Mice 
(R-FIX-048) the extent of rFIXFc transfer from pregnant females to her pups ranged from 1.7% to 3.7% 
with an average transfer of 2.6% ± 0.60%. at 24 or 48 hours post-infusion. This information has been 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 27/98 
  
  
reflected in the SmPC section 5.3. The lack of information on fertility, embryo-foetal development, 
pregnancy and breastfeeding is reflected in the SmPC section 4.6.  
In a thrombogenicity study, rFIXFc seems to have a low thrombogenic risk as results from the Wessler 
stasis model indicate. Mean thrombi scores of rabbits treated with rFIXFc (liquid and lyophilized 
formulations) from both Wessler studies were similar to mean thrombi scores from rabbits treated with 
saline or vehicle (see SmPC section 5.3.). 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans in line with other products based on 
thrombogenicity test in rabbits (Wessler stasis model) and repeated dose toxicity studies (which included 
assessment of local toxicity, male reproductive organs and electrocardiographic parameters) in rats and 
monkeys. Studies to investigate genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, toxicity to reproduction or embryo-foetal 
development have not been conducted. In a placental transfer study, ALPROLIX has been shown to cross 
the placenta in small amounts in mice. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The primary PD studies demonstrated the long-acting clotting activity of rFIXFc and PK studies 
demonstrate that rFIXFc has an extended half-life. Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard in line with 
what would be expected from the type of product. The non-clinical aspects of Alprolix have been studied 
adequately and all relevant information has been included in the SmPC.    
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 28/98 
  
  
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
• 
Study ID 
No. of 
Design 
Study 
Study 
Subjs by 
Duration 
Gender 
Diagnosis 
Primary 
study 
centres / 
locations 
Posology 
Objective 
arm 
entered/ 
compl. 
M/F 
Incl. 
Endpoint 
criteria 
Median 
Age 
SYN-FIXFC-07-001  7 sites in the 
Phase I/II; 
1, 5, 12.5, 25, 
Safety, PK 
1 IU/kg: 
30 days after 
All male; 
PTPs ≥18 
Safety in all 
United 
States (6) 
and Hong 
Kong (1) 
Open-label, 
multicentre, 
safety, 
dose-escalation 
50 and 100 
IU/kg 
1/1 
administration 
18-76 
years of age 
treated patients 
of rFIXFc 
with severe 
evaluated by 
haemophilia 
physical 
B 
examination, vital 
signs, 
electrocardiogram 
(ECG), laboratory 
changes over 
time, adverse 
events (AEs), and 
antibody 
development. 
5 IU/kg: 
1/1 
12.5 
IU/kg: 
2/1 
50 IU/kg: 
5/5 
100 
IU/kg: 
5/5 
998HB102  
50 sites in 
Phase III; 
Starting dose: 
Efficacy and 
N=123 
Arm 1: Up to 
All male; 
PTPs ≥ 12 
Number of 
Australia, 
Open-label, 
Belgium, 
multicenter, 
Brazil, 
nonrandomized, 
Canada, 
uncontrolled; 
Arm 1 
safety 
Arm 1: 
(prophylaxis): 
(comparative 
63/59 
52 (±1) 
weeks 
30 
years old 
bleeding episodes 
(12-71); 
with severe 
(spontaneous and 
50 IU/kg 
PK) 
every 7 days 
Arm 2: At 
Arm 1: 
Haemophilia 
least 26 
28 
B 
China, 
France, 
Germany, 
Hong Kong, 
India, Italy, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Active 
comparator 
(BeneFIX) for 
(Interval kept 
steady) 
sequential PK 
Arm 2 
(prophylaxis): 
Arm 2: 
29/27 
weeks (up to 
Arm 3: 
~50 EDs) 
27/26 
Arm 3: Up to 
Arm 4: 
52 (±1) 
Page 29/98 
Arm 2: 
33 
Arm 3: 
traumatic) with 
rFIXFc per subject 
annualized over 
the study period 
(comparison 
between Arms 1 
and 2 versus Arm 
 
 
  
  
Japan, New 
subgroup 
100 IU/kg 
Arm 4 
weeks 
36 
3) 
Zealand, 
Russia, 
South 
Africa, 
Sweden, UK, 
USA 
every 10 days 
(Dose kept 
steady) 
Arm 3 (on 
demand):  
20 - 100 
IU/kg 
Arm 4 
(surgical): 40 
- 100 IU/kg 
only 
n=4/3 
Arm 4: 
During 
Arm 4: 
34.5 
Arm 4, 
preoperative 
then Arm 
period, 
1 n=2 
surgery, and 
rehabilitation 
period 
Joined 
from 
another 
arm n=6 
9HB02PED  
16 sites/ 
Phase III; 
Individualized 
Efficacy and 
30/27 
~50 weeks 
4.5/95.5; 
PTPs <12 
Occurrence of 
Australia, 
Open-label, 
prophylaxis 
safety 
Ireland, the 
multicenter, 
Netherlands, 
nonrandomized; 
South 
Uncontrolled 
Africa, UK, 
USA 
(starting 
regimen of 50 
to 60 IU/kg 
every 7 
days); 
and 
As needed for 
perioperative 
management; 
(at least 50 
46.2 
EDs) 
years old 
inhibitor 
with severe 
development 
haemophilia 
B 
9HB01EXT interim 
47 sites/ 
Phase III; 
Weekly 
Safety and 
~120 
At least 100 
~120 
Adult and 
Occurrence of 
CSR 
Australia, 
Open-label, 
prophylaxis 
efficacy   
planned; 
EDs (including 
planned; 
pediatric 
inhibitor 
Belgium, 
multicenter, 
with 20 to 100 
116 
parent study) 
116 
PTPs with 
development 
Brazil, 
long-term, 
IU/kg, 
enrolled 
enrolled 
Haemophilia 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 30/98 
 
 
  
  
as of 17 
October 
2014; 20 
completed 
as of 17 
B who have 
October 
completed 
2014; 20 
Study 
completed 
998HB102 
or Study 
9HB02PED 
Canada, 
extension 
or 
China, 
France, 
study; 
Uncontrolled 
Germany, 
Hong Kong, 
India, 
Ireland, 
Italy, Japan, 
the 
Netherlands, 
Poland, 
South 
Africa, 
Sweden, UK, 
USA 
individualized 
interval 
prophylaxis 
with 100 
IU/kg every 8 
to 16 days or 
2 times per 
month; 
or 
Episodic (on 
demand) 
regimen; 
and 
As needed for 
perioperative 
management 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 31/98 
  
  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
PK results are available from 3 completed studies: 
Study SYN-FIXFc-07-001 was a Phase 1/2a, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study designed to 
evaluate the safety and PK of rFIXFc given as single IV doses of 1 to 100 IU/kg to 14 previously treated 
patients (PTPs) ≥ 18 years of age with severe Haemophilia B (≤ 2 IU/dL or ≤ 2% endogenous FIX). 
Fifteen subjects were enrolled at 7 sites, and 14 subjects received an IV injection of rFIXFc. One subject 
each received 1, 5, 12.5, and 25 IU/kg; 5 subjects each received 50 and 100 IU/kg. Subjects receiving 1 
or 5 IU/kg did not undergo sampling for full PK profiles. Subjects receiving rFIXFc at dose levels of 12.5, 
25, 50, and 100 IU/kg underwent PK sampling at pre-dose; immediately after the dose; and 0.25, 1, 3, 
6, 9, 24, 48, 72, 96, 120, 168, and 240 hours (10 days) after the dose. After the 100 IU/kg dose, samples 
were also taken at 12 and 14 days. PK data for the subject receiving 12.5 IU/kg were not evaluable 
because his plasma FIX levels were detectable only up to 96 hours post-dose, resulting in a truncated 
terminal phase that was less than 3 times the estimated terminal t½. Of the 11 subjects dosed at 25 to 100 
IU/kg, 6 had baseline activities of ≤ 1 IU/dL, and the remaining 5 had baseline activities of 2 IU/dL. The 
estimated PK parameters included Cmax, AUCinf, CL, Vss, MRT, t½α, t½β, and IR. In addition, Time to 1% 
and Time to 3% were derived as surrogate measures for duration of therapeutic FIX activity. PK 
parameter summaries are provided for the 12.5, 25, 50, and 100 IU/kg dose groups. 
Study 998HB102 was a multiple-dose, open-label, Phase 3 study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, 
and efficacy of rFIXFc administered as an IV injection in 123 adult or adolescent PTPs ≥ 12 years of age 
with severe haemophilia B. 
The study had 4 treatment arms, comprising 2 prophylaxis arms (Arm 1: weekly prophylaxis, and Arm 2: 
individualized interval prophylaxis), an episodic (on-demand) treatment arm (Arm 3), and a perioperative 
management (surgery) arm (Arm 4). All subjects had PK assessments.  
In Arm 1, a subset of 23 subjects (the Sequential PK subgroup) received sequential single IV doses of 50 
IU/kg BeneFIX and rFIXFc at the beginning of the study (Baseline) for direct comparison of their 
respective PK.  
BeneFIX was selected as the comparator in the Sequential PK subgroup because it was the only 
recombinant FIX clotting factor commercially available for haemophilia B at the time of the study. The 
selection of the 50 IU/kg IV dose of rFIXFc in the Sequential PK subgroup was based on regulatory 
guidance and the clinical PK evaluation with rFIXFc at this dose in the Phase 1/2a study. 
One hundred twenty-three subjects, ≥ 12 years of age, were enrolled across 50 sites globally. 
The Sequential PK subgroup received sequential single IV doses of 50 IU/kg BeneFIX and rFIXFc at the 
beginning of the study (Baseline) for direct comparison of their PK. After a 5-day washout from their 
previous treatment, the subjects were dosed with 50 IU/kg of BeneFIX and underwent PK sampling 
scheduled at pre-dose; 10 minutes and 1, 3, 6, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours post-dose. After the completion 
of BeneFIX PK assessment and a minimum 120 hour (5 day) washout, the subjects received 50 IU/kg of 
rFIXFc, and PK samples were collected according to the schedule in Table 3. Sampling timepoints were 
optimized to cover the main parts of the activity time profile based on the expected longer terminal t½ for 
rFIXFc. Full PK profiles for BeneFIX and rFIXFc were assessed for 22 evaluable subjects at Baseline. The 
full PK profile of rFIXFc was further assessed in 21 evaluable subjects with the same dose and sampling 
scheme at Week 26 (1 subject in the Sequential PK subgroup did not complete the Week 26 visit). The PK 
assessment of rFIXFc at Baseline and Week 26 was performed using the 1000 IU vial strength. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 32/98 
  
  
To evaluate and assess the PK parameter estimates of rFIXFc and BeneFIX at baseline in the Sequential 
PK subgroup as well as rFIXFc at Week 26 (±1 week) and PK parameter estimates of rFIXFc in other arms, 
FIX activity (BeneFIX or rFIXFc) over time profiles were analyzed by compartmental and 
non-compartmental analysis (Activity PK). 
Study 9HB02PED was a multiple-dose, open-label, Phase 3, multicentre evaluation of the safety, PK, and 
efficacy of rFIXFc for routine prophylaxis and control of bleeding in PTPs <12 years of age with severe 
Haemophilia B. 
Thirty subjects were enrolled into the study (15 subjects <6 years of age and 15 subjects 6 to <12 years 
of age) and underwent an evaluation of the PK profile of prestudy FIX (50 IU/kg) and rFIXFc (50 IU/kg) 
sequentially. A washout period of 72 to 96 hours with no FIX treatment was required prior to 
administration of prestudy FIX and prior to the administration of rFIXFc. 
Blood sampling schedules were as follows: 
o  Samples for PK assessment of prestudy FIX were obtained pre-dose and at 30 (±5) minutes and 
3 (±0.5), 10 (±2), 24 (±3), and 48 (±4) hours following prestudy FIX dosing. 
o  Samples for PK assessment of rFIXFc were obtained pre-dose and at 30 (±5) minutes and 3 
(±0.5), 10 (±2), 24 (±3), 72 (±7), 120 (±12), and 168 (±16) hours following rFIXFc dosing. 
After completing the PK assessments, subjects began an individualized prophylaxis regimen with rFIXFc 
with a starting dose regimen of 50 to 60 IU/kg every 7 days. 
Non-compartmental PK analysis was implemented in all subjects with sufficient data (prestudy FIX and/or 
rFIXFc) to estimate at least 1 PK parameter. For incomplete or nonevaluable PK profiles, only a subset of 
the PK parameters were presented, as appropriate. NCA was conducted for FIX activity data from the 
one-stage aPTT clotting assay using Phoenix™ WinNonlin® (Version 6.2.1.51). 
In addition to the conventional PK analysis, a population PK model was initially developed for rFIXFc based 
on the clinical PK data from the Phase 1/2a study and the Phase 3 study in adults and adolescents using 
nonlinear mixed effects modeling. The population PK model was later updated with inclusion of the clinical 
PK data from children <12 years of age from Study 9HB02PED. 
Analytical methods 
The selected bioanalytical methods are in accordance with applicable guidelines and were appropriately 
validated and therefore endorsed. 
A Comparative Field Study conducted to evaluate the performance of rFIXFc aPTT activity assay in clinical 
hemostasis laboratories found some reagent dependent variability. Accordingly the applicant proposes to 
include wording in the rFIXFc SmPC to alert physicians to the fact that use of kaolin-based reagents can 
lead to an underestimation of rFIXFc. Reference is made to SmPC, section 4.2 Treatment monitoring.  
Results 
A summary of PK parameters by dose and by age category is presented in the following two tables. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 33/98 
  
  
Table 11: Phase 1/2a Study (SYN-FIXFc-07-001): FIX Activity PK Parameters (Arithmetic 
Mean ± SD) 
Table 12: Summary of PK Parameters of rFIXFc by Age Category: Geometric Mean (95% CI) – 
Noncompartmental Methods – One-Stage aPTT Clotting Assay 
In study 998HB102 the PK profiles of Benefix and Alprolix were compared in study Arm 1. The results are 
presented below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 34/98 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 13: Comparison of BeneFIX and rFIXFc PK Parameters – Non-Compartmental Methods – 
One-Stage Clotting Assay, Study 998HB102 
Figure 3: Mean Observed FIX Activity Over Time: One-Stage Clotting Essay (Linear Scale) – 
Sequential PK subgroup 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 35/98 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 4: Mean Observed FIX Activity Over Time: One-Stage Clotting Essay (Logarithmic 
Scale) 
In the paediatric study, the PK profile of Alprolix was compared to that of the patient´s previous products. 
Figure 5: Mean FIX activity over time following pre-study FIX and rFIXFc dosing (MDA): 
One-stage aPTT clotting assay (linear scale) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 36/98 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 6: Mean FIX activity over time following pre-study FIX and rFIXFc dosing: One-Stage 
aPTT Clotting Assay (MDA) (Logarithmic Scale; 9HB02PED) 
Repeat PK after 26 weeks: PK profiles from Baseline and after 26 weeks of dosing were compared to 
assess the predictability of exposure during chronic drug administration in Arm 1 of study 998HB102. 
Table 14: Comparison of rFIXFc PK Parameters  at Baseline and Repeat PK Visit After 26 
Weeks -  Non-Compartmental Methods – One-Stage Clotting Assay, Study 998HB102 
In Arm 2 of study 998HB102 patients received a dose of 100 IU/kg. PK parameters derived from this dose 
are presented below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 37/98 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 15: Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters for FIX activity - non-compartmental 
methods – one stage clotting assay; PK analysis set; ARM 2 - Individualized Interval: 
Results from population PK analyses 
CPP-12-019-BIIB029: A Population Pharmacokinetic Analysis of rFIXFc in Patients with Severe 
Haemophilia B 
Two studies that used rFIXFc for the treatment of severe Haemophilia B were included within this 
analysis. Study SYN-FIXFc-07-001 was a Phase 1/2a open-label, multi-center, safety, dose escalation 
study designed to evaluate the safety and PK of a single dose of FIXFc. Study 998HB102 was an 
open-label multi-center phase 3 study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, and efficacy of rFIXFc. 
A standard population pharmacokinetic approach was taken that included defining a base structure, 
inter-individual variability and inter-occasion variability, and covariate modeling. All analyses were 
conducted using NONMEM VII (version 1.0) by a first-order conditional estimation with an interaction 
term (FOCEI) and a combined additive and proportional residual error structure. Interindividual variability 
and inter-occasion variability were then tested on the PK parameters as exponential functions. Covariate 
modeling was performed in a stepwise forward addition and backward elimination manner. Tested 
covariates included body weight, age, race, blood type, HCT, IgG1concentration, albumin concentration, 
HCV status, HIV status, FIX genotype, drug product and study. Selection of significant covariate terms 
was based upon a χ2 -test comparison of a goodness-of-fit index (the OFV), as well as perceived clinical 
significance. Model checking included run output, goodness-of-fit plots, ETA and CWRES density plots, 
and individual PK profiles with population and individual predictions. 
The final model was further qualified with bootstrapping, visual predictive check, and external validation 
with the trough/peak dataset. 
Results: A three-compartment model described the data well. For a typical 73 kg subject, population 
predicted clearance (CL) is 2.39 dL/h, volume of central compartment (V1) is 71.4 dL, and volume of 
distribution at steady state is 198 dL. 
Inter-occasion variability (IOV) for CL and V1 were estimated to be 15.1% and 17.4%, respectively, 
which are smaller than the corresponding inter-individual variability (IIV) (17.7% and 21.7%, 
respectively). 
Body weight (BW) was found to be a covariate influencing CL and V1. The impact of BW on CL and V1 was 
limited: BW exponent of the power model on CL and V1 are 0.436 and 0.396, respectively. The inclusion 
of BW in the model reduced IIV for both CL and V1 by only 3.4% and 2.5%, respectively. 
Bootstrapping, visual predictive check, and external validation using trough/peak dataset supported the 
adequacy of the model. Parameter estimates using the modeling dataset were comparable to those 
obtained using the full dataset. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 38/98 
 
 
 
  
  
Simulations based on the model with and without IOV resulted in similar PK profiles at the population 
level. 
BW based and fixed dosing predicted similar PK profiles. The simulations of weekly dosing of 50 IU/kg or 
4000 IU of rFIXFc predicted that more than 95% of the population has trough/peak within target range 
i.e. trough ≥ 1% and peak < 150%, whereas more than 85% of the population was within the range of 
1% to 150% on 100 IU/kg ( 8000 IU) every 10 days, and more than 50% of the population within the 
range of 1% to 150% on 100 IU/kg or 8000 IU every 14 days. 
Simulation of dosing regimens for prophylaxis: 
Table 16: Simulation of PK Profile Following Single Dose of rFIXFc 
CPP-15-012-BIIB029: Population PK for RFIXFC  
Data were available from 3 clinical trials of rFIXFc in previously treated haemophilia B patients. The first 
study (SYN-FIXFc-07-001) was a Phase 1/2a open label, multi-center, safety, dose escalation study in 
adult patients (≥18 years). The second study (998HB102) was a Phase 3 open-label multi-center study to 
evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK and efficacy of rFIXFc in adult and adolescent patients (≥12 years). 
The third study (9HB02PED) was an open-label multicenter study evaluating the safety, PK, and efficacy 
of rFIXFc in pediatric patients (<6 years and 6 to <12 years). 
Nonlinear mixed effects modeling (NONMEM) was used to develop a population PK model to describe the 
PK profile in pediatric and adult haemophilia B subjects. Prior knowledge indicated that a 
three-compartment model described individual PK profiles for rFIXFc in adult and pediatric (>12 years) 
subjects with severe haemophilia B, based upon data from the Phase 1/2a Study SYN-FIXFc-07-001 and 
the Phase 3 Study 99HB102. Thus, the three-compartment model was evaluated as the base structural 
model. 
Results: A three-compartment disposition model with an additive and proportional residual error model 
adequately described the pharmacokinetic profile for FIX activity. The effect of weight, applied using a 
power model (allometric type), was found significant on all the PK model parameters. Additionally, a 
study effect for the Phase 1/2a study was found on clearance. 
CPP-13-014-BIIB029: Population PK Analysis of 3000IU and 1000IU Vial Strength Comparability 
The objectives of this analysis were to evaluate the availability of the pharmacokinetics (PK) data 
associated with 3000IU vial strength and assess the feasibility to compare 3000IU and 1000IU vial 
strength through population pharmacokinetic modeling; and to evaluate vial strength (3000IU vs 
1000IU) as a covariate in population PK modeling. 
This study was based on the previous population pharmacokinetic analysis (CPP-12-019- BIIB029). The 
data were from two studies that used rFIXFc for the treatment of severe haemophilia B. Study 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 39/98 
 
 
  
  
SYN-FIXFc-07-001 was a Phase 1/2a open-label, multi-center, safety, dose escalation study designed to 
evaluate the safety and PK of a single dose of rFIXFc. Study 998HB102 was an openlabel multi-center 
phase 3 study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, and efficacy of rFIXFc. 
FIX activity measurements associated with doses from solely either 3000IU or 1000IU vial strength in the 
phase 1/2a and phase 3 study were included in this analysis. Taking all the analyses into account, there 
seems to be no effect of vial strength (3000IU versus 1000IU) on the PK of rFIXFc. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No dedicated PD studies were submitted. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics data of rFIXFc are available from three completed clinical studies. Study 
SYN-FIXFc-07-001 was a phase I/II dose escalation study investigating PK of rFIXFc at doses of 1 (n=1), 
5 (n=1), 12.5 (n=1), 25 (n=1), 50 (n=5) and 100 (n=5) IU/kg.  
Study 998HB102 was a phase III clinical trial with 4 study arms (Arm 1: weekly prophylaxis, sequential 
PK subgroup; Arm 2: individualized interval prophylaxis; Arm 3: on-demand treatment; Arm 4: surgery 
arm) and a total of 123 patients ≥ 12 years of age were included with all patients undergoing PK 
evaluation of rFIXFc. A subset of the patients also underwent a PK evaluation of Benefix for comparison 
against rFIXFc. Furthermore, a subset of patients had a repeat PK evaluation after 26 weeks as requested 
by the guideline.  
Study 9HB02PED was the paediatric trial and PK parameters of rFIXFc at a dose of 50 IU/kg were 
investigated in a total of 24 children (11 patients were <6 years of age and 13 patients were 6-<12 years 
of age) fulfilling the guideline requirement regarding number of patients with available PK results. All 
patients underwent PK evaluation of their previous FIX and subsequently PK evaluation of rFIXFc.  
Moreover, three population PK reports were submitted. 
PK evaluation comprised estimation of the following parameters: Cmax, t1/2, CL, Vss, MRT, IR and AUC 
and time to 1% and 3% above baseline. The presented standard PK parameters comprise those relevant 
on a patient level for a clinical trial setting and are also in line with the FIX guideline. 
In study SYN-FIXFc-07-001 initially a non-compartmental PK analysis has been planned and this had 
been changed to a 2-compartmental analysis, with unknown justification. The former would have been 
preferred, but as the value of this trial is limited, no further issue is made. In study 998HB102 PK data 
were analyzed by compartmental and non-compartmental analysis. For description of PK data the 
apparent PK is of more interest in this assessment and therefore there is preference for the estimates 
from the NCA. This analysis requires fewer assumptions and treats the data as they are, rather than 
assuming a certain model. In the paediatric trial PK parameters were analyzed by NCA which is supported. 
PK results from the phase I study SYN-FIXFc-07-001 suggest that elimination half-life of rFIXFc was 
prolonged compared to other licensed FIX products and was more or less comparable between dose 
levels. Furthermore, a dose-proportional increase of Cmax and AUCinf was observed while CL, Vss and 
MRT appeared to be dose-independent.  
In the phase III trial 998HB102 the comparison against Benefix showed a prolonged t1/2 for rFIXFc and 
increased AUC, MRT and estimated time to trough levels of 1% and 3% while the CL was decreased.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 40/98 
  
  
The repeat PK evaluation in a subset of patients after 26 weeks demonstrate comparability to the PK after 
first dosing, and thus does not give rise to concern.  
Patients in Arm 2 (n=27) underwent a PK evaluation of 100 IU/kg. Sampling time points in this study arm 
exceed guideline requirements, which is expected for a new product with a prolonged half-life. However, 
the recommended sampling time point of 1 hour after administration is missing. Theoretically, this could 
be of concern with regards to assessment of incremental recovery which is determined as the peak factor 
level recorded in the first hour after infusion as well as determination of Cmax which could be missed with 
this sampling schedule (the first sampling time points in this study were 10 minutes and 3 hours after 
administration). Particularly, patients in Arm 2 received a dose of 100 IU/kg which is considerably high 
compared to usual dosing of FIX products. However, in study SYN-FIXFc-07-001 as well as in Arm 1 
sequential PK subgroup of Study 998HB102 (50 IU/kg), the sampling time point of one hour after 
administration was included. Data show that FIX activity at this time point was lower than at 10 minutes 
post-dose, suggesting that Cmax as well as IR are covered by sampling 10 minutes after administration. 
Therefore, Cmax and IR are not considered to be missed in Arm 2 of Study 998HB102 although the 
one-hour-post-dose sampling time point was skipped. 
In the paediatric trial PK results show that rFIXFc has a prolonged terminal half-life and reduced CL 
compared to pre-study FIX products. Generally, half-life was decreased in children <6 years of age 
compared to the older age cohort whereas CL was increased in younger children. This was also seen for 
other licensed FIX products. 
The guideline requirement to employ at least 3 different lots is fulfilled; an analysis according to lot 
showed no differences with regards to PK behavior. However, assessment of this analysis is limited by the 
small number of patients per lot. 
In total, three population PK analyses were submitted.  CPP-12-019-BIIB029 is based on PK data from 
studies SYN-FIXFc-o7-001 and 998HB102. The methodological approach chosen for modelling and 
simulation appears reasonable.  
The applicant concludes that simulations predict “that 50 IU/kg (or 4000 IU) once weekly, or 100 IU/kg 
(or 8000 IU) every 10-14 days would maintain FIX activity within 1-150% in the majority of the 
population”. This is not fully agreed as at a dose of 100 IU/kg the predicted trough levels are above one 
for only 50% of the patients (1.08 [0.125; 2.58]). No further issue is made since efficacy data are 
available and considered more relevant for assessing dosing recommendations of this product than data 
from population PK modelling. 
CPP-15-012-BIIB029 is based on PK data from three clinical trials (SYN-FIXFc-07-001, 998HB102, 
9HB02PED) including paediatric data. The methodological approach was to use the same model as 
identified when using only the data from SYN-FIXFc-07-001 and 99HB102 (see CPP-12-019-BIIB029 
above) as the basis. Results show that body weight has an influence on each of the PK parameters. 
Additionally, a description of the influence of underweight and overweight on the PK data in accordance 
with the FIX guideline was submitted. IR and DNAUC seem to be increased with increased body weight. 
This is considered to be covered by the general statement in the SmPC that dose based on bodyweight 
may require adjustment in underweight or overweight patients and no concerns arise from the presented 
data. 
In CPP-13-014-BIIB029 modelling is based on the model identified in CPP-12-019 (see above) and a 
covariate for vial strength (1000 IU and 3000 IU) was included. This population PK modelling suggests 
that there is no influence of the two different vial strengths on the PK of rFIXFc.  Furthermore, available 
safety data do not indicate that higher concentrated vial strengths have a negative influence on the local 
tolerability. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 41/98 
  
  
Furthermore, the FIX guideline requests that the pharmacokinetics of the lowest and highest 
concentration should be investigated unless otherwise justified. For PK evaluation of rFIXFc only the 1000 
IU and 3000 IU vial strengths were used. According to the applicant dosing with lower vial strengths at 50 
IU/kg would require multiple vials and larger injection volumes and therefore would result in longer 
injection times than appropriate for PK assessments. Thus, although not the lowest commercial vial 
strength, the 1000 IU vial represents the lowest practically evaluable vial strength for PK investigation. 
This justification is in principal considered acceptable. Moreover, higher concentrations are considered 
more likely to have an influence on PK and/or safety. From the 3000 IU vial PK data as well as safety data 
are available indicating no difference compared to lower vial strengths. There was only one patient 
undergoing PK evaluation after a dose consisting of only 250 IU vials. The applicant provided PK data of 
this patient compared to that of the remaining patients in the same age cohort. However, due to the small 
number (i.e. 1 patient) no conclusions can be drawn.  
The measurement of FIX activity is a pharmacodynamic marker that reflects the pharmacological activity 
of the rFIXFc molecule. FIX levels were measured in studies SYN-FIXFc-07-001, 998HB102, 9HB02PED 
and 9HB01EXT. The PD effects of FIX are closely associated with its’ PK parameters, therefore it is not 
necessary to conduct separate PD studies. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall, submitted PK data show that rFIXFc has an improved PK profile compared to other licensed FIX 
products supporting prolonged treatment intervals. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
N/A 
2.5.2.  Main study 
Pivotal Trial 998HB102 
This was an open-label multicenter phase 3 study with 4 treatment arms to evaluate the safety, 
tolerability, PK, and efficacy of rFIXFc in subjects ≥12 years of age with severe haemophilia B (defined as 
≤2 IU/dL [≤2%] endogenous FIX). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 42/98 
  
  
Figure 7: Study design (Pivotal Trial 998HB102) 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Inclusion Criteria 
Candidates were required to have met the following criteria at screening to be eligible for the study: 
1. Able to understand the purpose and risks of the study and to provide signed and dated informed 
consent and authorization to use protected health information in accordance with national and local 
subject privacy regulations. If the subject was younger than 18 years of age, then a parent or guardian 
was to have signed the ICF and the subject was to have signed the assent form as consistent with local 
authorities. 
2. Male, 12 years of age or older, and weighing at least 40 kg 
3. Severe haemophilia B, defined as ≤ 2 IU/dL (≤ 2%) endogenous FIX activity, as determined from the 
central laboratory at the time of screening. If the screening result was >2%, then the severity of 
haemophilia B was to have been confirmed by documented historical evidence from a certified clinical 
laboratory demonstrating ≤ 2% factor IX coagulant activity, by the medical record, or by a documented 
genotype known to produce severe haemophilia B. 
4. A PTP, defined as having at least 100 prior EDs to any recombinant or plasma-derived FIX product 
(fresh frozen plasma treatment was not to be considered in the count of the documented EDs) 
5. Bleeding events and/or treatment with FIX during the prior 12 weeks, as documented in the subject’s 
medical records 
6. Greater than or equal to 8 bleeding episodes in the 52 weeks prior to enrollment in the study, if treating 
with an on-demand (episodic) regimen 
7. A platelet count ≥ 100,000 cells/μL 
8. Immunocompetent, as determined by the Investigator’s review of the subject’s medical history 
9. Viral load of <400 copies/mL, if HIV antibody positive 
10. An international normalized ratio <1.40, as defined by the testing laboratory’s normal range 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 43/98 
 
 
  
  
11. Subjects entering directly into Arm 4 (Surgery) were to have met all other eligibility criteria AND 
required major elective surgery. 
Exclusion Criteria 
Candidates were to be excluded from study entry if any of the following exclusion criteria were noted at 
screening: 
1. Prior history of, or currently detectable inhibitor, as defined by the reporting laboratory (family history 
of inhibitors was not to be used to exclude the subject) with a positive inhibitor value ≥ 0.6 BU/mL (≥ 1.0 
BU/mL only for laboratories with a historical lower sensitivity cut-off for inhibitor detection of 1.0 BU/mL) 
2. Presence of any other coagulation disorder in addition to haemophilia B 
3. Prior history of anaphylaxis associated with any FIX or IV immunoglobulin administration 
4. Abnormal renal function, defined as serum creatinine >2.0 mg/dL 
5. Active hepatic disease defined as an aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine aminotransferase 
(ALT) greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal 
6. For Sequential PK subgroup receiving BeneFIX, an allergy to Chinese hamster proteins 
7. Any concurrent clinically significant major disease that, in the opinion of the Investigator, made the 
subject unsuitable for enrollment 
8. Inability or unwillingness to refrain from taking additional prophylactic doses of FIX prior to sports 
activity or increased physical activity 
9. Concurrent systemic treatment with immunosuppressant drugs within the last 12 weeks prior to the 
study entry (exceptions: ribavirin, treatment of HCV and HIV and/or systemic steroids [a total of 2 pulse 
treatments within 7 days ≤ 1 mg/kg] and/or inhaled steroids) 
10. Current enrollment (within the past 30 days) in any other clinical study involving investigational drugs 
Treatments 
Subjects enrolled in Arm 1 (weekly prophylaxis) received rFIXFc as a prophylactic individualized dose 
(initially 50 IU/kg) with a fixed weekly dosing interval. The dose could be modified, as guided by PK 
assessments, to target trough FIX activity levels at 1% to 3% above baseline, or higher as clinically 
indicated. Subjects continued on a fixed-weekly interval for up to 52 (±1) weeks. 
Subjects enrolled in Arm 2 (individualized interval prophylaxis) received a fixed prophylactic dose (100 
IU/kg rFIXFc) at a 10-day dosing interval initially, and thereafter, as guided by PK assessments, the 
interval could be adjusted to target a trough FIX activity level of 1-3% above baseline, or higher as 
clinically indicated. Following a 14-day PK assessment, all subjects continued on 100 IU/kg of rFIXFc on 
their individualized dosing interval for at least 26 weeks and up to 50 exposure days (EDs) overall. 
For subjects enrolled in Arm 3, an episodic (on-demand) regimen was initiated with a single dose of 
rFIXFc at 50 IU/kg followed by a 7-day PK sampling. After completing the PK evaluation, subjects treated 
bleeding episodes at doses ranging from 20 to 100 IU/kg (based on the severity of the bleeding episode) 
as needed for up to 52 (±1) weeks. 
Arm 4 (perioperative management) enrolled subjects requiring major surgery. Subjects who entered into 
Arm 4 were required to receive at least 4 rFIXFc doses before surgery. The prophylactic doses of rFIXFc 
and the interval of dosing for perioperative management were derived from the subject’s baseline PK 
assessment in addition to consideration of the type of planned surgery. Subjects could enroll from any of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 44/98 
  
  
the other treatment arms into Arm 4, or enroll as new subjects scheduled for major surgery that required 
FIX treatment. Subjects in Arm 4 could join another arm after completing surgery. 
Dosing Guidelines for rFIXFc Therapy in haemophilia B 
Objectives 
Primary Objectives 
The primary objectives of the study were as follows: 
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of rFIXFc 
To evaluate the efficacy of rFIXFc in all treatment arms 
To evaluate the effectiveness of prophylaxis over on-demand (episodic) therapy by comparing the 
annualized number of bleeding episodes between subjects receiving rFIXFc on each prevention 
(prophylaxis) regimen (Arm 1 and Arm 2) and subjects receiving rFIXFc on an episodic regimen (Arm 3) 
Secondary Objectives 
The secondary objectives of the study were as follows: 
To evaluate and assess the PK parameter estimates of rFIXFc and BeneFIX at baseline in the Sequential 
PK subgroup as well as rFIXFc at Week 26 (±1 week) 
To evaluate subjects’ response to treatment 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 45/98 
 
 
  
  
To evaluate rFIXFc consumption 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
•  Number of bleeding episodes (spontaneous and traumatic) with rFIXFc per subject annualized over 
the study period (comparison between Arms 1 and 2 versus Arm 3) 
The secondary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
•  Assessments of response to treatment with rFIXFc for bleeding episodes 
This assessment was to be made approximately 8 to 12 hours, if practical, from the time the injection was 
given to treat the bleeding episode, and prior to any additional doses of rFIXFc, if needed, for the same 
bleeding episode. Response could also have been assessed by the Physician for subjects who were treated 
in the hospital with rFIXFc for major bleeding episodes. Responses were to be recorded using the 
following 4-point scale: 
o  Excellent: Abrupt pain relief and/or improvement in signs of bleeding within approximately 8 
hours after the initial injection 
o  Good: Definite pain relief and/or improvement in signs of bleeding within approximately 8 
hours after an injection, but possibly requiring more than one injection after 24 to 48 hours 
for complete resolution 
o  Moderate: Probable or slight beneficial effect within 8 hours after the initial injection and 
requiring more than one injection 
o  No response: No improvement, or condition worsened, within approximately 8 hours after the 
initial injection 
• 
• 
Physicians’ global assessments of subjects’ response to treatment with rFIXFc 
Total annualized rFIXFc consumption per subject 
•  Dose per injection for subjects in Arm 1 
•  Dosing interval for subjects in Arm 2 
• 
• 
• 
The number of annualized spontaneous bleeding episodes (joint, soft tissue, and muscle) per subject 
The number of annualized joint bleeding episodes (spontaneous and traumatic) per subject 
Time from last injection of rFIXFc to the bleeding episode 
•  Number of injections and dose per injection of rFIXFc required to stop a bleeding episode (joint, soft 
tissue, and muscle) 
•  Quality-of-Life (QoL) via Haemophilia-Specific QoL index questionnaires for children (Haemo-QoL) or 
adults (Haem-A-QoL) for Arms 1 and 2 
The endpoints for Arm 4 were as follows: 
• 
Investigators’/Surgeons’ assessments of subjects’ response to surgery with rFIXFc. The 
Investigator/Surgeon who completed the surgical procedures was to assess the subject’s response to 
surgery with rFIXFc treatment using a 4-point clinical scale. This assessment was to  be completed 24 
hours following the surgical procedure, and was to include observations made during surgery and the 
24-hour postoperative time period. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 46/98 
  
  
o  Excellent: intraoperative and postoperative blood loss similar to (or less than) a 
nonhemophilic patient. 
  No extra doses of rFIXFc needed and 
  Blood component transfusions required were similar to a nonhemophilic patient 
o  Good: intraoperative and/or postoperative bleeding slightly increased over expectations for a 
nonhemophilic patient, but the difference was not clinically significant. 
 
Intraoperative blood loss no more than 250 mL greater than expected for a 
non-hemophilic patient and 
  No extra doses of rFIXFc needed and 
  Blood component transfusions required were similar to a non-hemophilic patient 
o  Fair: intraoperative and/or postoperative blood loss was increased over expectation for a 
nonhemophilic patient and additional treatment was needed. 
 
 
 
Intraoperative blood loss 250 mL to 500 mL greater than expected for person without 
Haemophilia or 
Extra dose of rFIXFc needed or 
Increased blood component transfusion requirement 
o  Poor/none: significant intraoperative and/or postoperative bleeding that was substantially 
increased over expectations for a nonhemophilic patient, required intervention, and was not 
explained by a surgical/medical issue other than haemophilia 
 
Intraoperative blood loss more than 500 mL greater than for a nonhemophilic patient 
or 
  Unexpected hypotension or unexpected transfer to intensive care unit due to bleeding 
or 
  Substantially increased blood component transfusion requirement 
•  Number of injections and dose per injection required to maintain hemostasis during the surgical 
period 
• 
Estimated blood loss during surgery 
•  Number of transfusions required for surgery 
Sample size 
Because of the limited number of subjects in the haemophilia B population, the sample size of this study 
was mainly based on clinical rather than statistical considerations. Taking into account the CPMP Note for 
Guidance [CPMP/BPWG/1625/99 2000], efforts were made to collect sufficient data for assessments of 
the efficacy and safety of rFIXFc. 
Approximately 100 subjects at 75 investigational sites were to be enrolled into 1 of the following 
treatment arms: 
Arm 1, Prevention Regimen (Weekly Prophylaxis): approximately 50 subjects 
Arm 2, Prevention Regimen (Individualized Interval Prophylaxis): approximately 25 subjects 
Arm 3, On-Demand (Episodic) Regimen: approximately 20 subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 47/98 
  
  
Arm 4, Surgery (Perioperative Management): at least 10 major surgeries in at least 5 subjects 
A key safety objective for any study of a new FIX product is the evaluation of inhibitor development. FDA 
guidance for adequate demonstration of acceptable inhibitor risk in clinical trials of previously treated FIX 
patients allows 1 out of 50 subjects to experience an inhibitor, with each subject requiring a minimum of 
50 EDs to the study treatment. Under the assumption that the occurrence of inhibitors in a clinical study 
can be adequately modeled using the binomial distribution, a minimum of 50 EDs would allow for a 
2-sided, 95% CI for the true inhibitor incidence of (0.05% to 10.65%) using the exact, Clopper-Pearson 
method if 1 case of inhibitor formation was observed. 
Another consideration in the study sample size was the evaluation of the effectiveness of prophylaxis over 
episodic therapy. Using a Poisson regression model with no overdispersion, the study sample size was 
projected to have greater than 95% power at the 2-sided 0.05 level of significance. This was considered 
based on the following: 
• 
• 
The power was calculated for hypothesis tests between Arm 1 and Arm 3.  
It was assumed that the minimum follow-up time for subjects in Arm 1 would be 48 weeks 
starting from the first prophylaxis dose (10 days after the first rFIXFc dose on study), and the 
minimum follow-up time for subjects in Arm 3 would be 26 weeks starting from Day 1. 
•  An 80% retention rate was assumed; therefore, the total follow-up time of each treatment arm 
was calculated as 1920 subject-weeks (40 subjects) for Arm 1 and 416 subject-weeks (16 
subjects) for Arm 3. 
• 
The annualized bleeding rate for subjects in this population using episodic treatment was at least 
8 bleeding episodes per subject per year. 
To be considered of clinical importance, there had to be at least a 50% reduction in annualized bleeding 
episodes. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were not randomized. Subjects were assigned to treatment arms according to the clinical site’s 
standard of care and Investigator decision, following discussion with each subject. 
Blinding (masking) 
This was an open-label study. 
Statistical methods 
The statistical methods planned in the protocol were further elaborated in a Statistical Analysis Plan 
(SAP), prior to database lock. 
The All-Enrolled Analysis Set was defined as subjects who were registered as enrolled by IXRS and 
assigned a unique subject identification number. 
The Full Analysis Set (FAS) was defined as subjects who received at least 1 dose of rFIXFc. The analysis 
of efficacy was performed in this population. Subjects who received a dose of BeneFIX, but did not receive 
any rFIXFc were not included in this population. 
The Safety Analysis Set was defined as subjects who received at least 1 dose of BeneFIX or at least 1 dose 
of rFIXFc. The analysis of safety was performed in this population. 
Statistical Analysis of Haemostatic Efficacy Endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the annualized number of breakthrough bleeding episodes during the 
efficacy period. Bleeding episodes classified as unknown were also included in the determination of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 48/98 
  
  
annualized bleeding rate. The comparison of annualized bleeding rates between the 2 prevention 
regimens (Arms 1 and 2) and the episodic regimen (Arm 3) were performed in a hierarchical, step-down 
fashion as follows: 
The analysis proceeded by comparing annualized bleeding rates between Arm 1 (Weekly Prophylaxis) and 
Arm 3 (Episodic Regimen) using a Poisson regression model with treatment arm as a covariate. If the 
treatment factor in the Poisson regression model failed to show statistical significance at the 2-sided 5% 
level based on a contrast between Arms 1 and 3, then testing was to stop and the study would have failed 
to demonstrate a difference between any prophylaxis regimen and the episodic regimen. If the estimated 
ratio of annualized bleeding episodes was less than 0.5 for Arm 1:Arm 3, then clinical importance of the 
weekly prophylaxis regimen would have been demonstrated. If the treatment factor in the model was 
significant at the 2-sided 5% level, then testing was to proceed to the comparison of Arm 2 
(Individualized Interval Prophylaxis) with Arm 3 (Episodic Regimen) in the same fashion. If the treatment 
contrast in the model for Arm 2 versus Arm 3 was significant at the 2-sided 5% level and the estimated 
ratio of the annualized bleeding rates was less than 0.5 for Arm 2:Arm 3, then clinical importance of the 
individualized interval prophylaxis regimen would have been demonstrated. A test for overdispersion was 
to be conducted to check the fit of the model. If no overdispersion was detected at the 2-sided 5% level 
of significance, results from the Poisson regression model were to be used. Otherwise, a negative 
binomial model, which accounts for overdispersion was to be used. Test results were tabulated by 
treatment arm along with the annualized bleeding rate ratios and the 95% CIs. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 8: Overview of Subject Disposition 
Recruitment 
The first subject was treated with rFIXFc on 22 January 2010 and the last subject received the last dose 
on 19 July 2012. The last subject completed the study on 29 July 2012. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 49/98 
 
 
  
  
Conduct of the study 
Five global protocol amendments and 1 administrative amendment were implemented during the course 
of this study. 
Main amendments were:  
Under Protocol Amendment 3: Primary objectives were added to further assess efficacy, starting dose, 
maximum dose and wash out periods were amended, PK timepoints were redefined, requirements to 
open Arm 4 to enrolment changed and definition of major surgery was clarified. 
Under Protocol Amendment 4: the sample size was increased, definition of bleeding episodes and their 
management clarified, some of the scales for bleeds and surgery were revised.  
Under Protocol Amendment 6: An additional interim analysis and further primary objectives were added. 
Sample size was also increased.  
Protocol Deviations 
There were subjects with deviations that were considered major: informed consent issues, investigational 
product (IP) issues, and subjects who took excluded medication. Informed consent issues included 
incomplete documentation of process, subject did not sign and date ICF/HIPAA, not completing all 
questions on the informed consent form, subjects initials not provided on all informed consent/HIPAA 
pages, site staff did not sign and date informed consent/HIPAA, incorrect informed consent version signed 
by the subject, procedures completed prior to informed consent process, subject not re-consented with 
revised informed consent/HIPAA in a timely manner, and approved informed consent/HIPAA manually 
altered. IP issues were incorrect treatment with study drug, primarily dosing non-compliance. 
Six subjects (4.9%) were identified who had major deviations that were considered to have a potential 
impact on the primary efficacy endpoint. Of these 6 subjects, 2 did not participate in the efficacy period 
and as such were already excluded. 
Baseline data 
The demographic profile for subjects in the Safety Analysis Set was similar across all treatment arms. All 
subjects were male. The median age was 30 years (range 12 to 71 years), with 11 subjects (8.9%) 12 to 
17 years old, 110 subjects (89.4%) 18 to 64 years old, and 2 subjects (1.6%) at least 65 years old. Of the 
subjects in the 12 to 17 year subgroup, 2 subjects were 12 years old, 2 were 14 years old, 3 were 15 years 
old, 1 was 16 years old, and 3 were 17 years old. 
Of the 123 subjects enrolled, 73 (59.3%) were white, 29 (23.6%) were Asian, 10 (8.1%) were black, 10 
(8.1%) were classified as other, and 1 (0.8%) was American Indian or Alaska Native. The median weight 
was 73.30 kg (range 45.0 to 186.7 kg) and median body mass index was 24.78 kg/m2 (range 15.2 to 
49.6 kg/m2). 
In general, the distribution of subjects was well balanced across the 3 main geographic regions of Europe 
(29.3%), North America (30.9%) and other countries (39.8%). When each region was examined by 
treatment arm, there were a smaller percentage of subjects in Arm 3 from Europe (7.4%) as compared 
with Arm 1 (33.3%) and Arm 2 (41.4%). At study entry, HIV status was positive in 9 subjects (7.3%) and 
HCV status was positive in 70 subjects (56.9%). HCV history was comparable and HIV history varied from 
3.4% to 16.7% across treatment arms. 
Baseline disease characteristics were representative of a population with severe haemophilia B. All 
subjects had a baseline FIX level ≤2%, 50.4% of subjects had target joints, and 40.2% of subjects had 
been treated with a prophylactic regimen as their most recent regimen prior to receiving treatment in this 
study. The range of FIX genotypes was also representative, with the most common mutations being 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 50/98 
  
  
missense (55.3%) and nonsense (18.7%). Treatment arms were examined for a balanced distribution of 
hHaemophilia history. There was a similar distribution in Arms 1 and 2 for prior treatment with 
prophylaxis (53.2% and 51.7%, respectively). All subjects in Arm 3 were previously treated with an 
episodic regimen at study entry. When the number of bleeding episodes within the last 12 months was 
examined by prior regimen, the median number of bleeding episodes reported in the subjects on a prior 
episodic regimen in Arms 1 and 2 was greater than the median number of bleeding episodes reported in 
subjects in Arm 3. The median number of bleeding episodes reported in subjects on a prior prophylaxis 
regimen was similar in Arms 1 and 2. 
Of the 123 subjects in the Full Analysis Set, the following 9 subjects did not contribute data for the efficacy 
period: 2 subjects in Arm 1, 3 subjects in Arm 2, and 4 subjects in Arm 4. The reasons for exclusion were 
as follows: 2 subjects received only 5K rFIXFc, 2 subjects withdrew after their PK evaluations, 1 subject 
had a single prophylaxis dose following his PK evaluation and withdrew from the study (no efficacy 
assessments could be made from a single dose), and 4 of the 6 subjects who entered directly into Arm 4 
did not transition to Arm 1, 2, or 3 following their surgical/rehabilitation period. 
Numbers analysed 
Analysis Populations 
The All-Enrolled Analysis Set was defined as subjects who were registered as enrolled by IXRS and 
assigned a unique subject identification number. 
The Full Analysis Set (FAS) was defined as subjects who received at least 1 dose of rFIXFc. The analysis 
of efficacy was performed in this population. Subjects who received a dose of BeneFIX, but did not receive 
any rFIXFc were not included in this population. 
The Safety Analysis Set was defined as subjects who received at least 1 dose of BeneFIX or at least 1 dose 
of rFIXFc. The analysis of safety was performed in this population. 
The Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set (PKAS) is described in the PK part of this AR. 
Efficacy endpoints were analyzed for 114 subjects (61 in Arm 1, 26 in Arm 2, and 27 in Arm 3). 
Of the 123 subjects in the Full Analysis Set, the following 9 subjects did not contribute data for the efficacy 
period: 2 subjects in Arm 1, 3 subjects in Arm 2, and 4 subjects in Arm 4. The reasons for exclusion were 
as follows: 2 subjects received only 5K rFIXFc, 2 subjects withdrew after their PK evaluations, 1 subject 
had a single prophylaxis dose following his PK evaluation and withdrew from the study (no efficacy 
assessments could be made from a single dose), and 4 of the 6 subjects who entered directly into Arm 4 
did not transition to Arm 1, 2, or 3 following their surgical/rehabilitation period. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Routine Prophylaxis 
• 
The weekly dose of rFIXFc for subjects on weekly prophylaxis (Arm 1) decreased from the 
starting regimen of 50 IU/kg to a median of 45.17 IU/kg (range 25.0 to 74.3 kg IU/kg) when 
averaged over all eligible doses administered during the efficacy period. The median dose when 
calculated for the last 6 months on study in subjects on study for at least 9 months (40.70 IU/kg, 
range 21.3 to 82.7 IU/kg) was similar to the median dose for the last 3 months on study in subjects 
on study for at least 6 months (40.52 IU/kg, range 16.7 to 87.6 IU/kg), when averaged over all 
eligible doses administered during the respective time intervals. The median number of prescribed 
dose changes was 1. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 51/98 
  
  
Table 17: Summary of prophylactic dose for subjects in Arm 1 - Full analysis set 
• 
The dosing interval of rFIXFc for subjects on individualized interval prophylaxis (Arm 2) started at 10 
days, with a median interval when averaged over all eligible dosing intervals during the efficacy 
period of 12.53 days (range 7.8 to 15.9 days). The median dosing interval calculated for the last 6 
months on study (in subjects on study for at least 9 months) was 13.81 days (range 7.8 to 19.1 days), 
and for the last 3 months on study (in subjects on study for at least 6 months) was 14.00 days (range 
7.7 to 20.8 days) when averaged over all eligible dosing intervals during the respective time intervals. 
The median number of prescribed interval adjustments was 2. A total of 12 subjects (46.2%) 
achieved a dosing interval of 14 days or longer for the last 6 months on study (in subjects on study for 
at least 9 months) and 14 subjects (53.8%) achieved this for the last 3 months on study (in subjects 
on study for at least 6 months). 
Table 18: Summary of prophylactic dosing interval for subjects in Arm 2 - Full analysis set 
• 
For subjects in Arm 1, the median monthly prophylactic dose was 193.57 IU/kg, and the median 
annualized consumption was 2447.11 IU/kg. For subjects in Arm 2, the median monthly prophylactic 
dose was 244.66 IU/kg, and the median annualized consumption was 3156.77 IU/kg. Consumption of 
rFIXFc appears broadly comparable with other FIX products. However, a calculation of total 
annualized consumption for treatment arms 1- 3 is missing and should be provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 52/98 
 
 
 
 
  
  
• 
The annualized bleeding rate estimated by the negative binomial model was 3.12 on weekly 
prophylaxis (Arm 1), 2.40 on individualized interval prophylaxis (Arm 2), and 18.67 on episodic 
treatment. This corresponded to reductions in estimated annualized bleeding rate of 83% (Arm 1) 
and 87% (Arm 2) as compared to on demand (episodic) treatment (Arm 3). 
Table 19: Comparison of Annualized Bleeding Episodes – Negative Binomial Model 
• 
• 
• 
The mean bleeding rates based on observed data (3.07, 2.45, and 18.70 in Arms 1, 2, and 3, 
respectively) were comparable to the rates estimated from the negative binomial model. 
The mean bleeding rates based on observed data for subjects on a prior episodic regimen were 3.16, 
2.07, and 18.70 for subjects in Arms 1, 2, and 3, respectively, and are comparable to the rates 
estimated from the negative binomial model. 
The mean bleeding rates based on observed data for subjects on a prior prophylactic regimen were 
2.99 and 2.83 for subjects in Arms 1 and 2, respectively, and are comparable to the rates estimated 
from the negative binomial model. 
Treatment of Bleeding Episodes 
•  Across Arms 1, 2, and 3, there were 636 bleeding episodes during the efficacy period. Overall, 97.3% 
of bleeding episodes were controlled with 2 or fewer injections of rFIXFc, with 90.4% controlled by 1 
injection. No bleeding episodes required more than 3 injections. 
•  A total of 714 rFIXFc injections were administered to treat the 636 bleeding episodes. Of these, 566 
rFIXFc injections (82.0%) were rated by subjects as producing an excellent or good response, and 
110 rFIXFc injections (15.9%) were rated as moderate. Of the 613 first injections evaluated for 
response, 513 first injections (83.7%) were rated by subjects as excellent or good, 90 (14.7%) were 
rated as moderate, and 10 (1.6%) were rated as having had no response. The assessment of the 
haemostatic response to injections for bleeding episodes should be provided for mild, moderate and 
severe bleedings from all treatment arms. 
• 
The median dose per injection to treat a bleeding episode in Arms 1, 2, and 3 was 47.1 IU/kg, 44.8 
IU/kg, and 46.0 IU/kg, respectively. The median total dose per bleeding episode was 51.5 IU/kg for 
subjects in Arm 1, 49.6 IU/kg for subjects in Arm 2, and 46.6 IU/kg for subjects in Arm 3. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 53/98 
 
 
  
  
Table 20:  Summary of Number of Injections Required for Resolution of a Bleeding Episode 
Perioperative Management 
• 
Investigators’/Surgeons’ assessments of hemostasis during surgery were excellent or good in 100% 
of the 14 major surgeries in 12 subjects. 
•  A total of 12 of the 14 major surgeries (85.7%) required only 1 injection to maintain hemostasis 
during the surgery, with a median dose per injection of 90.91 IU/kg (range 49.4 to 142.3 IU/kg). 
•  Median total rFIXFc consumption was 146.1 IU/kg on the day of surgery, 164.6 IU/kg on Day 1 to Day 
3 after surgery, and 277.1 IU/kg on Day 4 to Day 14 after surgery. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 54/98 
 
 
  
  
Table 21: Surgery Arm: Total rFIXFc Consumption (IU/kg) per Major Surgery 
•  A total of 15 minor surgeries were performed in 13 subjects while they were receiving rFIXFc 
treatment. The majority of subjects were treated with a single injection on the day of surgery (range 
39.7 IU/kg to 103.6 IU/kg) prior to the procedure. Hemostasis was assessed as excellent or good in 
11 minor surgeries, fair for 1 minor surgery, and not provided in 3 surgeries. 
Ancillary analyses 
Post hoc analysis comparing pre-study with on-study bleeding rates 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 55/98 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 22: Summary of Bleeding Episodes, Monthly Consumption and Injections in the 12 
Months Prior to Study and On-study for Subjects in Study 998HB102 Arms 1 and 2 Who Were 
on a Prophylaxis Regimen Prior to the Study Full Analysis Set 
In the Phase 3 study in adults and adolescents ≥12 years of age (Study 998HB102), of the 39 subjects 
who received prior prophylaxis, the mean annualized bleeding rates were 4.23 prestudy and 2.35 
on-study. In Arm 1, mean annualized bleeding rates were 4.83 prestudy and 2.60 on-study; and in Arm 
2, mean annualized bleeding rates were 2.50 prestudy and 1.63 on-study. 
Summary of main study(ies) 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 23: 
Title: An open-label, multicenter evaluation of safety, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of recombinant, 
long-acting coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc) in the prevention and treatment of bleeding in 
previously treated subjects with severe haemophilia B 
Study identifier 
998HB102 
Design 
Open-label multicenter study  
Duration of main phase: 
72 weeks 
Hypothesis 
To determine the clinical efficacy of rFIXFc in the treatment of bleeding, in routine 
prophylaxis, and in perioperative management; and to confirm the prolonged 
half-life observed in the Phase 1/2a 
Treatments groups 
Arm1; weekly prophylaxis 
50 IU/Kg once every 7 days, 63 patients 
Arm 2; individualized interval 
100IU/kg once every 10 days, 29 patients 
prophylaxis 
Arm 3; episodic regimen 
20-100 IU/kg, 27 patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 56/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Arm 4 perioperative 
40-100IU/kg as needed for surgical 
management  
prophylaxis, 12 patients 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Safety 
Incidence of inhibitors development 
Secondary  
Prophylaxis 
efficacy 
Secondary 
Efficacy to 
stop the 
bleeding 
Secondary 
Perioperative 
management 
Efficacy 
Number of bleeding episodes per subject 
annualized over study period, comparison 
between Arma1, and  2 versus 3  
Dose per injection for subjects in Arm 1, dosing 
interval for subject in Arm 2  
Number of injections and dose per injection 
required to stop a bleeding episode   
Surgeon´s assessment of subject’s response to 
surgery 
Consumption to maintain hemostasis 
Blood loss during surgery 
Number of transfusion required 
Database lock 
The last subject completed  the study on 29 July 2012 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
FAS; subjects who received at least 1 dose of rFIXFc 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment 
Arm 1  
Arm2  
Arm 3  
and estimate 
group 
variability 
Number of 
63 
29 
27 
subject 
ABR  
2.95 (IQR range 
1.38 (IQR range 
17.69 (IQR 
1.01-4.35)   
0.00-3.43)  
range 
10.77-23.24)  
45.17IU/Kg 
12.53 days (7.8 
(25.0IU/Kg-74.3IU/Kg)  
days-15.9 days 
Median 
(Range) 
Prophylactic 
dose 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 57/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
Median dose 
47.1 IU/Kg 
44.8IU/kg  
46.0IU/kg 
per injection to 
stop the 
bleeding event 
Median total 
51.5IU/kg 
49.6IU/kg 
46.6IU/kg 
dose to stop 
the bleeding 
event 
Haemostatic 
13 out 14 surgeries excellent , 1 surgery as good 
response in 14 
major surgery  
Blood loss 
during 14 
major surgery 
100ml 
Transfusion 
2 
during 14 
major surgeries 
Effect estimate per 
Primary 
Arm 1 versus Arm 2 
Arm 2 versus Arm 3  
comparison 
endpoint 
0.17 (83% of reduction) 
0.13 (87% of reduction) 
p<0.05 
P<0.5 
Trial 9HB02PED 
Methods 
The Phase 3 study in children <12 years of age (9HB02PED) was an open-label, multicenter study 
evaluating the safety, PK, and efficacy of rFIXFc in pediatric male PTPs with severe haemophilia B who had 
at least 50 EDs to FIX products prior to enrollment. The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the 
safety of rFIXFc in pediatric PTPs with haemophilia B. Secondary objectives of the study were to evaluate 
the efficacy and PK of rFIXFc and rFIXFc consumption in the prevention and treatment of bleeding 
episodes. 
Figure 9:  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 58/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
Prophylaxis 
After completing the PK assessments, subjects began weekly prophylactic treatment with rFIXFc for 
approximately 50 weeks, to obtain 50 EDs. One ED was defined as a 24-hour period in which a subject 
received 1 or more doses of rFIXFc, with the time of the first injection of rFIXFc defined as the start of the 
ED. 
The starting dose regimen for this study was rFIXFc administered weekly at 50 to 60 IU/kg. The dose 
could be increased to a maximum of 100 IU/kg, and the frequency of administration could be increased to 
a maximum of twice weekly, based on the subject’s enrollment PK data, subsequent FIX trough and peak 
levels, level of physical activity, and bleeding pattern, in accordance with local standards of care for a 
prophylactic regimen. 
Treatment of Bleeding Episodes 
The dose of rFIXFc to treat a bleeding episode was based on the subject’s clinical condition, known PK 
information, type and severity of the bleeding event, and input from the Sponsor, if necessary. Subjects’ 
caregivers were provided with a dosing guideline and instructed to treat at the first sign of a bleeding 
episode and with a single dose of rFIXFc.  
Surgery (Perioperative Management) 
Surgery was only allowed in the study after rFIXFc PK assessments had been completed and the subject 
had at least 3 EDs to rFIXFc without safety concerns. If a subject needed to undergo surgery prior to 3 
EDs, he was withdrawn from the study. Bleeding caused directly by surgery was not reported, although 
undesired or unexpected bleeding during or after surgery was recorded on the eCRF. 
Study participants  
Inclusion Criteria 
To be eligible to participate in this study, candidates must have met the following eligibility criteria at the 
time of screening. 
1. Ability of parent or legal guardian to understand the purpose and risks of the study and provide signed 
and dated informed consent and authorization to use protected health information (PHI) in accordance 
with national and local subject privacy regulations. Subjects could provide assent in addition to the 
parental/guardian consent, if appropriate. 
2. Male, <12 years of age at time of informed consent, and weight ≥ 13 kg. 
3. Severe haemophilia B defined as ≤ 2 IU/dL (≤ 2%) endogenous FIX as documented in medical records 
from a local clinical laboratory demonstrating ≤ 2% FIX:C or a documented genotype known to produce 
severe haemophilia B. 
4. Previously treated subject, defined as having at least 50 documented EDs to any recombinant or 
plasma-derived FIX product including prothrombin complex concentrate (blood products including fresh 
frozen plasma treatment were not considered in the count of the documented EDs). 
5. If known to be HIV positive, the following laboratory values were required, based on results within last 
6 months: 
a. platelet count ≥ 100,000 platelets/μL 
b. CD4 count ≥ 200 cells/μL 
c. viral load of <400 copies/mL 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 59/98 
  
  
6. No history of, or currently detectable, inhibitor. This included the following: 
a. at least 2 negative inhibitor tests from the reporting laboratory 
AND/OR 
normal recovery tests within the first 50 EDs to FIX products 
AND 
b. absence of clinical signs of decreased response to FIX administrations 
The historical positive inhibitor test was defined as per local laboratory Bethesda value for a positive 
inhibitor test (i.e., equal to or above lower level of detection). Family history of inhibitors did not exclude 
the subject. 
7. No measurable inhibitor activity at the Screening Visit, measured using the Nijmegen-modified 
Bethesda assay performed at the central laboratory. 
8. Willingness and ability of the subject’s parent or legal guardian to complete training in the use of the 
study electronic patient diary (EPD) and to use the EPD throughout the study. 
Exclusion Criteria 
Candidates were excluded from study entry if any of the following exclusion criteria existed at the time of 
screening. 
1. Other coagulation disorder(s) in addition to haemophilia B. 
2. History of anaphylaxis associated with any FIX or IV immunoglobulin administration. 
3. Active renal disease (per the discretion of the Investigator and medical records). 
4. Active hepatic disease (per the discretion of the Investigator and medical records). 
5. Any concurrent clinically significant major disease that, in the opinion of the Investigator, made the 
subject unsuitable for enrolment. 
6. Current systemic treatment with chemotherapy and/or other immunosuppressant drugs, with the 
following exceptions: use of steroids for treatment of asthma or management of acute allergic episodes, 
and routine immunizations. 
7. Participation within the past 30 days in any other clinical study involving investigational drugs. 
8. Surgery within 30 days prior to the Screening Visit (visit can be rescheduled and subject screened). 
Treatments 
Prophylaxis 
rFIXFc was injected intravenously over several minutes. The starting dose regimen for this study was 
rFIXFc administered weekly at 50 to 60 IU/kg. The dose could be increased to a maximum of 100 IU/kg, 
and the frequency of administration could be increased to a maximum of twice weekly, based on the 
subject’s enrollment PK data, subsequent FIX trough and peak levels, level of physical activity, and 
bleeding pattern, in accordance with local standards of care for a prophylactic regimen. 
Dose and interval adjustments were made as follows: 
• 
The dose could be increased or decreased in increments of at least 10 IU/kg. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 60/98 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
• 
The maximum prophylactic dose that was given was 100 IU/kg/injection. 
If weekly dosing at 100 IU/kg was not adequate, the dosing interval could be shortened based on 
the subject’s rFIXFc PK results, FIX trough level, and clinical bleeding profile. 
The maximum dosing frequency was twice weekly. 
The minimum dosing frequency was once weekly. 
The maximum dose for routine prophylaxis and treatment of bleeding episodes was 100 IU/kg, although 
higher doses of up to 150 IU/kg could be used to achieve FIX activity to prevent bleeding (e.g., for 
surgery). 
Additional visits could be scheduled at the Investigator’s discretion to repeat measurement of trough 
levels, if further dose adjustments were needed. 
Treatment of Bleeding Episodes 
The dose of rFIXFc to treat a bleeding episode was based on the subject’s clinical condition, known PK 
information, type and severity of the bleeding event, and input from the Sponsor, if necessary. 
Subjects’ caregivers were instructed to treat at the first sign of a bleeding episode and with a single dose 
of rFIXFc:  
Table 24: Dosing Guidelines for rFIXFc Therapy in haemophilia B 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 61/98 
 
 
 
  
  
Treatment of Subjects Undergoing Surgery (Perioperative Management) 
Surgery was only allowed in the study after rFIXFc PK assessments had been completed and the subject 
had at least 3 EDs to rFIXFc without safety concerns. If a subject needed to undergo surgery prior to 3 
EDs, he was withdrawn from the study. Surgeries, elective or emergent, were classified as major and 
minor as follows: 
•  Major surgery was defined as any surgical procedure in which a major body cavity was penetrated 
and exposed, or for which a substantial impairment of physical or physiological function was 
produced (e.g., laparotomy, thoracotomy, craniotomy, joint replacement, or limb amputation). 
•  Minor surgery was defined as any surgical procedure that did not typically involve general 
anesthesia and/or respiratory assistance (e.g., minor dental extractions, incision, and drainage of 
abscess, or simple excisions). 
Objectives 
Primary objective: 
• 
To evaluate the safety of recombinant coagulation factor IX Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc) in 
previously treated pediatric subjects with haemophilia B. 
Secondary objectives: 
• 
• 
• 
To evaluate the efficacy of rFIXFc for prevention and treatment of bleeding episodes. 
To evaluate and assess the pharmacokinetics (PK) of rFIXFc. 
To evaluate rFIXFc consumption for prevention and treatment of bleeding episodes. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint 
•  Occurrence of inhibitor development 
Secondary Endpoints 
Efficacy Endpoints 
• 
• 
The annualized number of bleeding episodes per subject 
The annualized number of spontaneous joint bleeding episodes per subject 
•  Assessments of response to treatment with rFIXFc for bleeding episodes, using the 4-point 
bleeding response scale 
• 
• 
• 
Total annualized rFIXFc consumption per subject for prevention of bleeding episodes 
Total annualized rFIXFc consumption per subject for treatment of bleeding episodes 
Time from last injection of rFIXFc to the bleeding episode 
•  Number of injections and dose per injection of rFIXFc required to resolve a bleeding episode 
Sample size 
The determination of the number of subjects was based on clinical rather than statistical considerations. 
Taking into account the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CHMP) Note for Guidance [EMA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 62/98 
  
  
(EMA/CHMP/BPWP/144552/2009) 2011], approximately 26 subjects (approximately 13 in each age 
cohort) would be dosed with rFIXFc to achieve a minimum of 10 subjects in each age cohort (<6 years and 
6 to <12 years) with at least 50 EDs and adequate prestudy FIX and rFIXFc PK data. This allowed for an 
approximate 20% dropout rate. 
Randomisation 
This was a single arm trial. 
Blinding (masking) 
This was an open-label study.  
Statistical methods 
Analysis Sets 
The Full Analysis Set (FAS) was defined as all subjects who received at least 1 dose of rFIXFc. Analyses of 
efficacy, patient reported outcomes, and health outcomes were performed in this population. 
The Safety Analysis Set was defined as all subjects who received at least 1 dose of their prestudy FIX 
treatment for the purpose of evaluating PK or at least 1 dose of rFIXFc. 
Statistical Analysis of Haemostatic Efficacy Endpoints 
Annualized Bleeding Rate 
The annualized bleeding rate was summarized using descriptive statistics for each age cohort and overall 
for the FAS. All types of bleeding episodes (spontaneous, traumatic, and type unknown) were included in 
determining the annualized number. 
The per-subject annualized bleeding rate was calculated for each subject using the following 
formula: 
Prestudy and On-study Comparison for Routine Prophylaxis 
The comparison of ABR between prestudy and on-study will be assessed using a repeated negative 
binomial model for the FAS. The log of the efficacy period in years will be fitted as an offset variable. An 
unstructured covariance matrix is used to model the correlation among repeated measures. The data will 
be presented by age cohort and overall. The model will have the total number of bleeding episodes during 
the efficacy period as the dependent variable and group, period (prestudy, on-study) and 
group-by-period interaction as fixed effects. The group variable has 4 levels for the analysis by age 
cohort: <6 years old on prophylaxis prestudy regimen, <6 years old on episodic prestudy regimen, 6 to 
<12 years old on prophylaxis prestudy regimen, and 6 to <12 years old on episodic prestudy regimen. For 
the overall analysis, the group variable has 2 levels: prophylaxis and episodic prestudy regimens. 
Assessments of Response to rFIXFc Injections for Bleeding 
Each subject’s caregiver provided an assessment of response to each administration of rFIXFc for each 
bleeding episode using the 4-point scale of excellent, good, moderate, and none. 
Response categories of excellent and good were presented combined as well as individually. The number 
and percentage of injections in each response category were tabulated based on all injections. Two 
summaries are provided; in the first summary percentages were based on the total number of injections 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 63/98 
 
 
  
  
administered for bleeding episodes for which a response was provided, and in the second summary 
percentages were based on the total number of bleeding episodes whether or not a response was 
provided. 
Results  
Participant flow  
Figure 10: Overview of Subject Disposition (N=30 Subjects Enrolled) 
Recruitment 
The first subject enrolled and received his first baseline prestudy dose of FIX on 11 May 2012. The first PK 
dose of the study drug, rFIXFc, was administered on 08 June 2012. In total, 30 subjects enrolled into 
study (15 subjects in the <6 years of age cohort and 15 subjects in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort). All 
30 subjects received study drug rFIXFc. Subjects were assigned to the appropriate age cohort (<6 years 
of age or 6 to <12 years of age) at the time of enrollment and were analyzed in that same age cohort 
throughout the duration of the study. The last subject received his last dose of rFIXFc on 24 November 
2014. The last subject completed the study on 24 November 2014. 
Conduct of the study 
Changes in the Conduct of the Study 
Two global protocol amendments were implemented during the course of this study.  
Protocol Amendment 1: 
The primary reason for this amendment was to minimise the number of pre-study FIX PK assessments.  
Protocol Amendment 2:  
The primary reasons for this amendment were: to add interim PK analyses required regionally, to 
recategorize patient reported outcomes to exploratory endpoints and increase the sample size.  
Protocol Deviations 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 64/98 
 
 
  
  
There were subjects with deviations that were considered major. These deviations included: informed 
consent issues and deviations categorised as other criteria. 
Every deviation associated with the completion of the ICF or the process of consent was considered major, 
regardless of the nature of the deviation. The majority of informed consent issues were administrative in 
nature, such as subjects not being re-consented with an updated ICF at the next scheduled study visit or 
subjects not signing assent forms prior to Screening. 
There were major deviations characterized as “other” which included: improper delegation of activities, 
training delays, delayed submission of amendments and improper reporting of SAEs.  No subjects were 
identified as having protocol deviations with a potential impact on the annualized bleeding rate.  
Baseline data 
At study entry, all 30 subjects had previously been treated prophylactically. Of these, 6 subjects (20.0%) 
reported a dosing frequency of 1 injection per week, 21 (70.0%) reported 2 injections per week, and 1 
(3.3%) reported 3 injections per week. The remaining 2 subjects reported dosing frequencies of every 3 
days (1 subject) and every 4 days (1 subject). All of the subjects dosed once weekly were in the <6 years 
of age cohort. The majority of subjects (16 [53.3%]) were on a prophylactic regimen of FIX for longer 
than 12 months prior to study entry, with a further 9 subjects (30.0%) on prophylaxis for between 6 and 
12 months. 
Demographic factors and baseline characteristics: All subjects were male. The median overall age was 5.0 
years (range, 1 to 11 years): in the <6 years of age cohort, the median age was 2.0 years (range, 1 to 4 
years), and in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort, the median age was 8.0 years (range, 6 to 11 years). The 
median weight was 15.60 kg (range, 13.5 to 25.4 kg) for subjects <6 years of age and 32.05 kg (range, 
20.7 to 54.5 kg) for subjects 6 to <12 years of age. The predominant races represented in the study were 
white (73.3%) and Asian (16.7%). The main geographic areas represented were North America (46.7%) 
and Europe (36.7%); 16.7% of the study population was from other geographic areas, which included 
Australia and South Africa. 
All enrolled subjects had severe haemophilia. A total of 25 subjects (83.3%) had a historical FIX activity 
of <1% and 5 subjects (16.7%) had historical FIX levels of 1% to 2%. Genotype data were determined for 
all 30 subjects. The distribution of genotypes was representative of a population with severe haemophilia 
B, i.e. the majority of subjects had missense mutations (13 subjects, 43.3%) or nonsense mutations (11 
subjects, 36.7%). A family history of inhibitors was reported in 1 subject (in the <6 years of age cohort). 
As would be expected for this pediatric population, there were no enrolled subjects who were known to be 
positive for HIV or HCV. All subjects were treated prophylactically prior to study entry. In the 12 months 
prior to the study, the median estimated total number of bleeding episodes across the overall study 
population was 2.5 (range: 0 to 72), with the majority of subjects (80.0%) experiencing 5 or fewer 
bleeding episodes. The median estimated number of bleeding episodes in the previous 12 months was 3.0 
(range: 0 to 17) in the <6 years of age cohort and 2.0 (range: 0 to 72) in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort. 
Summary of main efficacy results 
Prophylaxis 
The median average dosing interval during the Efficacy Period was 6.99 days (range: 5.9 to 10.8 days), 
with no difference in median average dosing interval between cohorts. The median average dosing 
interval calculated for the last 3 months on study (in subjects on study for at least 6 months) was 6.98 
days for the FAS (range: 5.0 to 76.8), the <6 years of age cohort (range: 6.8 to 76.8), and the 6 to <12 
years of age cohort (range: 5.0 to 10.1). The majority of subjects (29 subjects; 96.7%) made no changes 
to their prescribed dosing interval over the course of the study. The median number of prescribed interval 
adjustments was 0.0 (range: 0 to 1). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 65/98 
  
  
Table 25: Summary of last prescribed dose and dosing frequency, age cohort <6 years old 
(N=15) 
Table 26: Summary of last prescribed dose and dosing frequency, age cohort <12 years old 
(N=15) 
The median average weekly dose of rFIXFc for subjects <6 years of age was 59.40 IU/kg (range: 31.0 to 
68.6 IU/kg) across the study and 60.41 IU/kg (range: 5.4 to 72.1 IU/kg) over the last 3 months of the 
study for those who were in the study for at least 6 months. For subjects in the 6 to <12 years of age 
cohort, the median average weekly dose was 57.78 IU/kg (range: 46.5 to 110.1 IU/kg) across the study 
and 61.55 IU/kg (range: 37.1 to 142.7 IU/kg) over the last 3 months of the study for those who were in 
the study at least 6 months (Table 47). 
Over half of subjects (63.3%) made no changes to their prescribed starting dose over the course of the 
study, and 30.0% made 1 dose change during the study. The median number of prescribed dose changes 
per subject was 0.0 (range: 0 to 2).  
The mean annualized bleeding rate was 1.72 in the <6 years of age cohort, 2.80 in the 6 to <12 years of 
age cohort, and 2.26 in the total of both age cohorts. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 66/98 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 27: Summary of Annualized Bleeding Rates 
Overall, 10 subjects (33.3%) had no bleeding episodes reported during the Efficacy Period: 6 subjects 
(40.0%) in the <6 years of age cohort and 4 subjects (26.7%) in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort. No 
subjects had an annualized bleeding rate of more than 10 episodes per year. 
Treatment of Bleeding Episodes 
There were 60 bleeding episodes during the efficacy period. Overall, 91.7% of bleeding episodes were 
controlled with either 1 or 2 injections of rFIXFc, with 75.0% resolved with a single injection. No bleeding 
episodes required more than 3 injections. 
A total of 80 injections were administered to treat the 60 bleeding episodes. Of the 67 rFIXFc injections 
evaluated for response, 60 (89.6%) were rated by subjects as producing an excellent or good response, 
6 (9.0%) were rated as moderate, and 1 (1.5%) was rated as none. Of the 53 first injections evaluated 
for response, 47 first injections (88.7%) were rated by subjects as excellent or good, 5 (9.4%) were rated 
as moderate, and 1 (1.9 %) was rated as none. Of the 5 first injections assessed as moderate, 2 of the 5 
bleeding episodes were controlled with a single injection. A total of 15 bleeding episodes in 8 subjects 
required a second injection. However, the applicant is asked to clarify why an unusually high percentage 
of injections 13/80 (16.25 %) were not evaluated for response. 
Of the 80 injections administered to treat bleeding episodes, analysis per bleeding episode showed that 1 
injection of rFIXFc was adequate to resolve 86.4% of bleeding episodes in the <6 years of age cohort, 
68.4% in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort, and 75.0% for the total of both age cohorts. The majority were 
resolved by 2 or fewer injections (95.5%, 89.5% and 91.7% of subjects <6 years of age, subjects 6 to 
<12 years of age, and the total of both age cohorts, respectively). The applicant is asked to provide the 
assessment of bleeding events summarized by mild, moderate and severe bleeds. 
The median average dose per injection to treat a bleeding episode was 63.51 IU/kg. The median total 
dose per bleeding episode was 68.22 IU/kg.  
Perioperative Management 
No major surgeries were performed during the study. Three minor surgeries in 2 subjects were performed 
while they were receiving rFIXFc treatment (1 in the <6 years of age cohort and 2 in the 6 to <12 years 
of age cohort).  Investigators' assessments of hemostasis during minor surgery were excellent in all 3 
minor surgeries. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 67/98 
 
  
  
Table 28a:  Summary of main efficacy results 
Title: An Open-label Multicenter Evaluation of Safety, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of recombinant 
coagulation factor IX fusion protein, BIIB029, in the prevention and treatment of bleeding episodes in 
pediatric subjects with haemophilia B 
Study identifier 
9HB02PED 
Design 
Open-label, uncontrolled, multicenter 
Duration of main phase: 
The per-subject duration of 
study participation for the treatment and 
follow-up periods was approximately 54 weeks. 
The time 
required for screening and PK assessments was 
approximately 3 months. 
Hypothesis 
To determine the clinical efficacy of rFIXFc in the treatment of bleeding, in 
routine prophylaxis, and in perioperative management of pediatric patients, 
study the PK in the children. This study is part of approved PIP 
(EMA-000914-PIP01-10-M02 
Treatments groups 
6years of age 
50IU/kg-60IU/kg every 7 days, 15 patients 
6 to <12 years of age 
50IU/kg-60IU/kg every 7 days, 15 patients 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Safety 
Incidence of inhibitors development 
Efficacy 
Number of bleeding episodes per subject 
annualized over study period,   
Secondary  
Efficacy 
Dose per injection for subjects   
Prophylaxis 
efficacy 
Secondary 
Efficacy to 
stop the 
bleeding 
Number of injections and dose per injection 
Efficacy 
required to stop a bleeding episode   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 68/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Secondary 
Efficacy 
Surgeon´s assessment of subject’s response to 
Perioperative 
management 
surgery 
Consumption to maintain hemostasis 
Blood loss during surgery 
Number of transfusion required 
Database lock 
24 November 2014 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
FAS 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group  < 6 year  
6 to <12 years 
Total 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subjects 
15 
15 
30 
Median (IQR)ABR  1.09(0.00, 2.90)   2.13(0.00,4.17)  
1.97(0.00, 3.13)  
Median UI/kg 
59.40  (31.0  to  
57.78(46.5 to 
61.55(37.1 to 
(Range IU/kg) 
68.6)  
110.1  
142.7)  
Prophylactic 
weekly dose 
Median dose per 
63.70(30.1, 
62.92(16.7, 
63.51(16.7, 
injection to stop 
133.3) 
122.7) 
133.3) 
the bleeding 
event 
Median total dose 
65.37(30.1, 
89.77(16.7, 
68.22(16.7, 
to stop the 
266.7) 
362.7) 
362.7)  
bleeding event 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 69/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 28b: Annualized Bleeding Rates Compared With Bleeding Episodes on the Prestudy 
Regimen 
This analysis compared prestudy numbers of bleeding episodes (for subjects who were on a pre-existing 
prophylaxis regimen in the 12 months prior to the study) with the on-study annualized bleeding rate. The 
bleeding rate ratio was 0.42 for on-study prophylaxis versus pre-study prophylaxis in the overall study 
population (corresponding to a 58% reduction in annualized bleeding rate). Bleeding rate ratios in the <6 
years of age cohort and the 6 to <12 years of age cohort were 0.46 (a 54% reduction) and 0.39 (a 61% 
reduction), respectively. 
Even though the data are collected retrospectively, the comparison of annualized bleeding rates between 
prestudy and onstudy product is considered interesting. The incidence of bleeding events is likely 
underestimated in the prestudy dataset, because documentation is probably less accurate as during a 
clinical trial.  
An improvement in favour of the study product could be shown for the annualized bleeding rate. This is 
seemingly driven in no small part by a subject who experienced 72 bleeding events prestudy and only 4 
onstudy.  The applicant has provided a sensitivity analysis excluding this subject from the negative 
binomial regression model comparing pre- and on-study annualized bleeding rates in order to assess the 
impact of this patient on the study results. This subject is in the 6 to <12 years old age cohort. The 
prestudy and on-study estimated annualized bleeding rate (95% CI) is 2.57 (1.49, 4.45) and 2.68 (1.46, 
4.91), respectively, as compared to 7.20 (2.10, 24.66) and 2.80 (1.61, 4.85), respectively, in the original 
analysis. The bleeding rate ratio is 1.04 (0.52, 2.10) compared to 0.39 (0.11, 1.36) in the original 
analysis. The difference remained not statistically significant (p=0.9081 versus p=0.1397). In the <6 
years old cohort, the number of subjects included in the analysis and the results were unchanged. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
N/A  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 70/98 
 
 
 
  
  
Table 29: Clinical studies in special populations 
Age 65-74 
Age 75-84 
Age 85+ 
(Older subjects 
(Older subjects 
(Older subjects 
number /total 
number /total 
number /total 
number) 
number) 
number) 
Controlled Trials 
Non Controlled trials 
998HB102 
2/123 
Supportive study(ies) 
Trial 9HB01EXT 
This extension study evaluated the long-term safety and efficacy of rFIXFc in previously treated subjects 
with haemophilia B and allowed subjects from the Phase 3 studies (Study 998HB102 and Study 
9HB02PED), and from other rFIXFc studies to continue treatment with rFIXFc. This interim report for the 
extension study evaluated the long-term safety of rFIXFc in subjects with haemophilia B from the Phase 
3 studies (Study 998HB102 and Study 9HB02PED) as of the 17 October 2014 data cut-off. Of the 116 
subjects who participated in the parent studies, 93 (80.2%) were enrolled from Study 998HB102 and 23 
(19.8%) were enrolled from Study 9HB02PED. 
Subjects ≥12 years of age follow a prophylactic (weekly, individualized interval, or personalized) 
regimen, or an episodic regimen. Personalized prophylaxis is allowed for additional rFIXFc dosing, such as 
that given prior to physical activity, supplementing a background of any individualized interval regimen or 
weekly regimen. The starting dose in the extension study is based on the subject’s PK profile and dose 
from the parent study. All subjects ≥12 years of age are allowed to change treatment regimens (e.g., 
from prophylaxis regimen to episodic dosing or from episodic dosing to prophylaxis regimen) during the 
study after assessment by the Investigator. 
Subjects <12 years of age receive a prophylactic (weekly, individualized, or personalized) regimen and do 
not have the option to change to on-demand treatment until they reach the age of 12 years. 
If a subject requires surgery during this study, either emergent or elective, he may be treated with the 
dose and regimen of rFIXFc deemed appropriate for the type of surgery. Assessment of hemostasis is 
conducted in the same manner as the parent studies. Major and minor surgeries conducted during the 
extension study (9HB01EXT) through 17 October 2014 were evaluated for hemostatic efficacy.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 71/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 11: Overview of Subject Disposition (N=116 Subjects Enrolled in Extension Study) 
Haemostatic Efficacy 
Overall, in subjects enrolled from Study 998HB102, over 96% of bleeding episodes were controlled with 
2 or fewer injections of rFIXFc, with over 80% controlled by 1 injection, regardless of the treatment 
regimen. For weekly, individualized, personalized, and episodic treatment, the median doses per injection 
to treat a bleeding episode were 51.73, 39.14, 54.57, and 38.66 IU/kg, respectively, and the median total 
doses to treat a bleeding episode were 52.85, 47.91, 54.87, and 39.42 IU/kg, respectively. 
Overall, in subjects who enrolled from Study 9HB02PED and received weekly or individualized prophylaxis 
in both age cohorts, at least 90% of bleeding episodes were controlled with 2 or fewer injections of rFIXFc. 
The 1 subject on personalized prophylaxis had 3 bleeding episodes, 2 of which were controlled by 2 
injections. For weekly prophylaxis in the <6 years of age cohort, the median average dose per injection 
to treat a bleeding episode was 58.82 IU/kg, and the median total dose to treat a bleeding episode was 
58.82 IU/kg. (No subjects in the <6 years of age cohort received individualized or personalized 
prophylaxis.) For weekly, individualized, and personalized prophylaxis in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort, 
the median average doses per injection to treat a bleeding episode were 48.08 IU/kg, 69.44 IU/kg, and 
97.11 IU/kg, respectively; and the median total doses to treat a bleeding episode were 56.82 IU/kg, 
69.44 IU/kg, and 207.97 IU/kg, respectively. 
rFIXFc injections were rated as producing excellent or good responses in 70.5%, 83.3%, 73.8%, and 
96.3% of first injections evaluated for response in subjects enrolled from Study 998HB102 receiving 
weekly prophylaxis, individualized interval prophylaxis, personalized prophylaxis, and episodic 
treatment, respectively. 
In subjects in the <6 years of age cohort who enrolled from Study 9HB02PED, 100.0% of first injections 
evaluated for response were rated as excellent or good for the subjects receiving weekly prophylaxis. 
In subjects in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort who enrolled from Study 9HB02PED, 81.3%, 50%, and 
50% of first injections were rated as excellent or good for subjects receiving weekly prophylaxis (in 26 of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 72/98 
 
 
  
  
32 injections), individualized prophylaxis (in 6 of 12 injections), and personalized prophylaxis (1 of 2 
injections). 
Routine Prophylaxis 
Subjects from Study 998HB102 
The mean annualized bleeding rate was 3.73 for subjects on weekly prophylaxis; 3.90 for subjects on 
individualized prophylaxis; 3.97 for subjects on personalized prophylaxis; and 13.35 for subjects on 
episodic treatment.  
Six subjects had an annualized bleeding rate of more than 20 episodes per year. Of these 6 subjects, 3 
were on episodic treatment. The remaining 3 subjects were on prophylaxis and each had multiple target 
joints.  
Subjects from Study 9HB02PED 
For subjects on weekly prophylaxis, the mean annualized bleeding rate was 2.47 in the <6 years of age 
cohort (n=9) and 3.65 in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort (n=10). For subjects from the 6 to <12 years 
of age cohort who were on individualized prophylaxis (n=5), the mean annualized bleeding rate was 5.97. 
The annualized bleeding rate was 3.13 for the 1 subject on personalized prophylaxis in the 6 to <12 years 
of age cohort.  
Perioperative Management 
Among the total of 15 major surgeries (which included a laminectomy, total knee arthroplasty, 
craniotomy, etc) performed, evaluation of hemostasis was rated as excellent (13 surgeries) or good (1 
surgery) for the 14 major surgeries that were assessed for response. Total rFIXFc dose for the 14 days 
following major surgery had ranged from 118.6 IU/kg to 1947 IU/kg. Evaluation of hemostasis was rated 
as excellent (9 surgeries) or good (1 surgery) for the 10 minor surgeries that were assessed for response. 
Results in this interim study report are broadly comparable to those observed in the parent studies, 
demonstrating long-term efficacy of treatment with Alprolix. Mean bleeding rates in the enrolled 
paediatric population is reported to be higher than in the parent study, however, this could possibly be 
caused by low subject numbers included in the treatment modality and age subgroups. Nevertheless, the 
applicant is asked to discuss these results in light of the available data. A definitve assessment will only 
be possible once the final CSR has been provided.  
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The design of the two submitted pivotal clinical trials investigating the efficacy (998HB102 and 
9HB02PED) for Alprolix follows and exceeds the requirements of the currently valid guideline for 
recombinant FIX products (EMA/CHMP/BPWP/144552/2009 rev 1) regarding the number and age 
distribution of subjects included as well as the number of exposure days observed. In addition, an interim 
report of the extension trial 9HB01EXT provides data concerning the sustained efficacy after long term 
administration of rFIXFc. 
In the clinical trials the efficacy of Alprolix was explored for the prevention as well as for the treatment of 
bleeding events.  
Trial 998HB102 investigated the efficacy of Alprolix for prophylactic as well as on-demand treatment in 
123 PTPs ≥12 years of age (Arm 1: fixed prophylactic treatment interval i.e. once weekly with adapted 
dose; Arm 2: fixed prophylactic dose i.e. 100 IU with adapted interval; Arm 3: On demand treatment of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 73/98 
  
  
BEs). The applicant has justified the chosen dose with the results from the phase 1/2a study 
SYN-FIXFc-07-001 and with the simulations in the population PK analysis. Adjustment of doses were 
allowed to target a trough of 1%-3% during the prophylactic treatment. In addition when patients had at 
least 3 spontaneous bleeding episodes over a consecutive month period adjustment dose were allowed to 
target a trough of 3% to 5% above baseline. In arm, 1 dose adjustment was allowed; changes in dose 
were to be in increments no less than 10 IU/kg and the minimum and maximum dose allowed were 20 
IU/Kg and 100 IU/kg, respectively. In arm 2, the interval was adjusted to target trough levels for the 
subject. It is considered that the dose adjustment was adequately conducted and the threshold levels 
clinically justified. In general although the design is endorsed, further justification has been provided 
regarding the allocation of the patients in each arm and regarding sample size. More patients were weekly 
treated (arm 1) in order to increase the number of ED and enhance the safety database  
Trial 9HB02PED investigated the efficacy of Alprolix for the prophylaxis and treatment of bleeds in 30 PTPs 
<12 years age. Furthermore, in both pivotal as well as in the extension trial the efficacy of Alprolix during 
surgery was explored (for trial 998HB102 in the dedicated treatment Arm 4).  
The investigated patient population was multi-national and included previously treated children (0-<12 
years of age), adolescents (11 adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age) and adults suffering from 
severe to moderately severe haemophilia B defined as FIX levels ≤2%. Given that the patients were 
treated previously, the protocol of the studies established that patients had to have at least 100 ED to 
other factor IX in the adult population and 50 ED in the paediatric population. This is not in accordance 
with the current GL where it is established that a minimum of 150 ED previous to the administration of the 
new investigational product is needed in PTPs ≥12. However this is not expected to have an important 
impact on the safety or efficacy of the product. 
In trial 998HB102 in adults and adolescents the primary efficacy endpoint was defined as the number of 
bleeding episodes (spontaneous and traumatic) with rFIXFc per subject annualized over the study period 
(comparison between Arms 1 and 2 (= prophylactic treatment) versus Arm 3 (on demand treatment)). 
Relevant secondary efficacy endpoints encompassed the following: Assessments of response to 
treatment with rFIXFc for bleeding episodes (4 point scale); Physicians’ global assessments of subjects’ 
response to treatment with rFIXFc; Total annualized rFIXFc consumption per subject; Dose per injection 
for subjects in Arm 1; Dosing interval for subjects in Arm 2; The number of annualized spontaneous 
bleeding episodes (joint, soft tissue, and muscle) per subject; The number of annualized joint bleeding 
episodes (spontaneous and traumatic) per subject; Time from last injection of rFIXFc to the bleeding 
episode; Number of injections and dose per injection of rFIXFc required to stop a bleeding episode (joint, 
soft tissue, and muscle). 
For the evaluation of the effects in surgery, Investigators’/Surgeons’ assessments of subjects’ response 
to surgery with rFIXFc; Number of injections and dose per injection required to maintain hemostasis 
during the surgical period; Estimated blood loss during surgery and Number of transfusions required for 
surgery were defined as endpoints. 
In the paediatric study 9HB02PED, the annualized number of bleeding episodes per subject; The 
annualized number of spontaneous joint bleeding episodes per subject; Assessments of response to 
treatment with rFIXFc for bleeding episodes, using the 4-point bleeding response scale; Total annualized 
rFIXFc consumption per subject for prevention of bleeding episodes; Total annualized rFIXFc consumption 
per subject for treatment of bleeding episodes; Time from last injection of rFIXFc to the bleeding episode;  
Number of injections and dose per injection of rFIXFc required to resolve a bleeding episode represent the 
evaluated efficacy endpoints. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 74/98 
  
  
In all, 123 male subjects were enrolled into the pivotal trial 998HB102, 63 in arm 1, 29 in arm 2, 27 in arm 
3 and 12 were under perioperative management. Most of them (110) were 18-64 years old. Only 2 
subjects were 65 years old or older. 
40.2% (49/122) of the patients enrolled were on prophylaxis pre-study regimen and 59.8% (73/122) 
were under on demand pre-study regimen.   
In 998HB102 a statistically significant reduction in the annualized bleeding rate was observed for both the 
weekly prophylaxis regimen (Arm 1) and the individualized interval prophylaxis regimen (Arm 2) relative 
to the episodic regimen (Arm 3). However, as the benefits of prophylactic treatment are well established 
in the haemophilia B population, the evaluation of prophylactic treatment with Alprolix reduces the rate of 
bleeding events in comparison to on demand treatment is not considered relevant for this MAA. In 
addition, subjects were not randomized into arms 1 to 3 but assigned after discussion with the 
investigator, thus further weakening the strength of the evidence of this comparison. However, the mean 
bleeding rates based on observed data (3.07, 2.45, and 17.69 in Arms 1, 2, and 3, respectively) confirm 
the beneficial effect of prophylaxis with Alprolix observed in this trial. These annualized bleeding rates 
also compare favourably to published results from trials with other licensed FIX products.  
The percentage of patients without bleeding episodes was smaller (23.0%) in arm 1 than in arm 2 
(42.3%).  The majority of the subjects in the arm 2 who did not have any bleeding episodes were those 
without any target joints at baseline. This suggests that those patients with a more favourable phenotype 
may get clinical benefit from a longer dosing interval. However, considering that the therapy in 
haemophilia B is tailored on individual basis, both regimens can be relevant in the global approach to the 
diseases. The weekly dose of rFIXFc for subjects on weekly prophylaxis (Arm 1) decreased from the 
starting regimen of 50 IU/kg to a median of 45.17 IU/kg (range 25.0 to 74.3 kg IU/kg) when averaged 
over all eligible doses administered during the efficacy period.  The dosing interval of rFIXFc for subjects 
on individualized interval prophylaxis (Arm 2) started at 10 days, with a median interval when averaged 
over all eligible dosing intervals during the efficacy period of 12.53 days (range 7.8 to 15.9 days).  
Regarding the efficacy in the treatment of bleeding events, 97.3% of bleeding episodes were controlled 
with 2 or fewer injections of Alprolix, with 90.4% controlled by 1 injection. No bleeding episodes required 
more than 3 injections. 82.0% of injections were rated by subjects as producing an excellent or good 
response, and 15.9% of injections were rated as moderate. Of the 635 bleeding episodes that could be 
classified, 23 (3.6%), 589 (92.8%), and 23 (3.6%) bleeding episodes were classified as mild, moderate, 
and severe, respectively. Across all 3 treatment arms, bleeding episodes of mild, moderate, and severe 
degrees were controlled with a single injection in 91.3% (21/23), 91.5% (539/589), and 60.9% (14/23) 
of cases, respectively. The response to the first injection to treat mild, moderate, and severe bleeding 
episodes was rated as excellent or good in 85.0% (17/20), 85.1% (486/571), and 47.6% (10/21) of 
cases, respectively. 
Thirty subjects were enrolled into trial 9HB02PED; the median overall age was 5.0 years, 15 were enrolled 
in the <6 years of age cohort and 15 subjects were enrolled in the 6 to < 12 years cohort. This study 
enrolled children previously treated with 50 EDs to any recombinant or plasma-derived FIX product 
including prothrombin complex concentrate. This is not a usual prerequisite as only exposure to FIX is 
valid in order to minimize the risk of inhibitor formation. Additional information was therefore required in 
terms of ED. The applicant provided the median and IQR of the ED pre-study to FIX including prothombin 
complex and the ED to FIX (without prothrombin complex) as requested. Only two patients from South 
Africa received PCC (containing FIX from pooled fresh plasma). The remaining patients received 
concentrated FIX product (BeneFIX, AlphaNine and Immunonine). All the patients had been exposed at 
least 50 ED to previous FIX products and therefore the inclusion criteria have been met. 
In the paediatric population of trial 9HB02PED the mean annualized bleeding rate was 1.72 in the <6 
years of age cohort, 2.80 in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort, and 2.26 in the total of both age cohorts. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 75/98 
  
  
The median average dosing interval during the Efficacy Period was 6.99 days (range: 5.9 to 10.8 days), 
with no difference in median average dosing interval between cohorts. The majority of subjects (96%) 
needed no changes to their prescribed dosing interval and 63.3% needed 1 dose change during study. 
The ranges of doses and dosing interval are wide and thus reflecting the heterogeneity of the results.  
The median average weekly dose of rFIXFc for subjects <6 years of age was 59.40 IU/kg (range: 31.0 to 
68.6 IU/kg) across the study. For subjects in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort, the median average weekly 
dose was 57.78 IU/kg (range: 46.5 to 110.1 IU/kg) across the study. 
Of the 67 rFIXFc injections evaluated for response, 60 (89.6%) were rated by subjects as producing an 
excellent or good response, 6 (9.0%) were rated as moderate, and 1 (1.5%) was rated as none. The 
majority of bleeding episodes were resolved by 2 or fewer injections (95.5%, 89.5% and 91.7% of 
subjects <6 years of age, subjects 6 to <12 years of age, and the total of both age cohorts, respectively). 
Of the 60 bleeding episodes that could be classified, 12 (20.0%), 40 (66.7%), and 8 (13.3%) bleeding 
episodes in subjects <12 years of age were classified as mild, moderate, and severe, respectively. Across 
the 2 age cohorts, bleeding episodes of mild, moderate, and severe degrees were controlled with a single 
injection in 91.7% (11/12), 70.0% (28/40), and 75.0% (6/8) of cases, respectively. The response to the 
first injection to treat mild, moderate, and severe bleeding episodes was rated as excellent or good in 
100% (11/11), 86.5% (32/37), and 80.0% (4/5) of cases, respectively. The results have been 
appropriately reflected under SmPC section 5.1. 
The guideline requirement to submit data of a minimum of 5 patients undergoing at least 10 surgical 
procedures (comprising major surgeries) is exceeded. In all three trials the efficacy of Alprolix during 
surgery was investigated, resulting in 29 major surgeries performed in 19 subjects in the pivotal phase 3 
studies (998HB102 and 9HB02PED) and the ongoing extension study (9HB01EXT) as of 17 October 2014. 
In addition, 43 minor surgeries were undertaken in the same timeframe. The vast majority of evaluable 
surgeries were assessed as excellent or good by the surgeon or investigator. In the event of major 
surgeries the claimed posology in the SmPC is in line with non long-acting product, which is endorsed. 
Based on data of 40 minor surgeries in 24 subjects >12 years it is stated in the SmPC that the dose 
frequency should be 24 hours and that a prolonged interval is appropriate in certain patients and 
circumstances.   
The annualized bleeding rates in 9HB01EXT were for subjects enrolled from Study 998HB102 who were on 
weekly prophylaxis (median:2.28); individualized interval prophylaxis (median: 2.25), and personalized 
prophylaxis (median:2.42), for subjects enrolled from Study 9HB02PED who were on the weekly 
prophylaxis (medians: 0 for subjects <6 years of age and 2.65 for subjects 6 to <12 years of age); 
individualized prophylaxis (median: 2.37 for subjects 6 to <12 years of age); and personalized 
prophylaxis (3.13 in 1 subject in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort). In general these data are in line with 
those of the parent studies. According to the applicant the differences seen in the number of bleeding 
episodes are due to the differences in time that patients stayed in the parent study (median of 50.01 
weeks) and in the extension study (median of 119.48 weeks). Given the median of the ABR is comparable 
between parent and extension studies (2.61 and 2.21 respectively) it can be assumed that the efficacy is 
maintained in the long term treatment. 
The applicant has provided an analysis showing that ABR is similar or slightly improved with the treatment 
of rFIXFc compared to that of the previous prestudy prophylaxis regimen. The annualised consumption for 
the prophylaxis regimen and the annualized number of prophylaxis injections decreased. In the study 
998HB102 the percentage of patients with no bleeding episodes in the 12 months previous to study and 
on study was similar for the arm 1 (24.1% and 27.6% respectively). For the arm 2 there was a slight 
improvement with 20.0% in pre-study and 60.0% on-study. Those slightly better results were achieved 
with lower doses (UI/Kg) and a lower number of injections.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 76/98 
  
  
In the paediatric study, an improvement in favour of the study product could be shown for the annualized 
bleeding rate. This was seemingly driven in no small part by a subject who experienced 72 bleeding 
events pre-study and only 4 on-study. The applicant has provided a sensitivity analysis excluding this 
subject from the negative binomial regression model comparing pre- and on-study annualized bleeding 
rates in order to assess the impact of this patient on the study results. This subject is in the 6 to <12 years 
old age cohort. The pre-study and on-study estimated annualized bleeding rate (95% CI) is 2.57 (1.49, 
4.45) and 2.68 (1.46, 4.91), respectively, as compared to 7.20 (2.10, 24.66) and 2.80 (1.61, 4.85), 
respectively, in the original analysis. The bleeding rate ratio is 1.04 (0.52, 2.10) compared to 0.39 (0.11, 
1.36) in the original analysis. The difference remained not statistically significant (p=0.9081 versus 
p=0.1397). In the <6 years old cohort, the number of subjects included in the analysis and the results 
were unchanged (bleeding rate ratio 0.46). 
The expectation from a long-acting FIX to the therapeutic of the haemophilic patients is the reduction of 
treatment burden and the improvement of adherence to the treatment. Although this has not been 
systematically studied in this application, the above results are adequate to support starting regimens for 
a long term prophylaxis against bleeding, as either 50 IU/kg once weekly, or 100 IU/kg once every 10 
days, based on individual response. The highest recommended dose for prophylaxis is 100 IU/kg. (see 
section 4.2 of the SmPC).  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The submitted data are considered sufficient to demonstrate the efficacy of Alprolix for the prevention and 
treatment of bleeding events in patients with Haemophilia B as well as efficacy during surgery. The longer 
half-life of rFIXFc allows for a less frequent administration scheme, which eases the treatment burden.  
Data for both investigated dosing strategies (fixed interval and fixed dose approach) are reflected in the 
SmPC and allow individual tailoring of preventative therapy with Alprolix. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to efficacy: 
- Provide the final study report from study 998HB303 (PUPs study): An Open- Label, Multicenter 
Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of Recombinant Coagulation Factor IX Fc Fusion Protein (rFIXFc; 
BIIB029) in the Prevention and Treatment of Bleeding in Previously Untreated Patients with Severe 
haemophilia B  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The evaluation of safety data from 3 completed clinical studies (Studies SYN-FIXFc-07-001, 998HB102 
and 9HB02PED) and the study ongoing (9HB01EXT) was done according to relevant guidelines.  
Data from the phase 3 studies 998HB102 and 9HB02PED, and from the ongoing extension study 
9HB01EXT (interim data cut-off of 17 October 2014) were pooled for an integrated presentation. Data 
from the Phase 1/2a study (SYN-rFIXFc-07-001) and perioperative management period are discussed 
separately because of the relatively small number of subjects and study design differences, which is 
endorsed. 
Patient exposure 
For studies 998HB102, 9HB02PED, and 9HB01EXT (data cut-off 17 October 2014) patient exposure is 
presented in the following two tables: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 77/98 
  
  
Table 30: Cumulative Summary of Duration of Dosing With rFIXFc for All Subjects Enrolled in 
Studies 998HB102, 9HB02PED, and 9HB01EXT by Parent Study 
Table 31: Cumulative Summary of Injections and Days of Exposure to rFIXFc For All Subjects 
Enrolled in Studies 998HB102, 9HB02PED, and 9HB01EXT By Age 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 78/98 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
The number of patients largely exceeds the requirements of the guideline where it is stated that 40 PTPs 
should be investigated (20 ≥12 years, 10 between 6-<12 years and 10 <6 years of age). Safety data for 
patients  ≥ 65 years old are limited since only 2 patients of this age group participated in the trials. This 
is considered as missing information in the RMP.  
Since higher than the usual factor IX doses are proposed in the SmPC, patient exposure was also stratified 
by doseData on exposure for rFIXFc (<50 IU/kg, ≥50 to ≤75 IU/kg, >75 to ≤100 IU/kg, and >100 IU/kg) 
for each of the relevant age groups in adult and pediatric subjects revealed a sufficient number of subjects 
exposed in each of these dose groups to assess clinical safety. Additionally, the incidence of AEs and 
related AEs presented is generally similar for AEs within each dose group. The same applies for the 
incidence of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and adverse event assessed as related between 
the subjects who received doses ≤ 100 IU/kg and subjects who received doses >100 IU/kg,. The type and 
incidence of AEs observed in both dose groups are consistent with events typically observed in the 
haemophilia B population. Furthermore, no unique safety concerns and no vascular thrombotic events 
were identified in either dose group with respect to TEAES or related TEAEs. 
Adverse events 
Of the 153 subjects in the Integrated Safety Analysis, 133 subjects (86.9%) reported at least 1 TEAE for 
a total of 869 TEAEs - 106 subjects (86.2%) from Study 998HB102 and 27 subjects (90.0%) from Study 
9HB02PED. 
The most frequently reported TEAEs by SOC with an incidence of ≥10% were : infections and infestations 
(56.9%), gastrointestinal disorders and injury, poisoning, and procedural complications (35.3%); 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (32.7%); nervous system disorders (22.2%); general 
disorders and administration site conditions (19.6%); respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders 
(17.6%); and skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (16.3%). In summary,134 patients (87.6%) are 
mentioned to have at least 1 AE, including AEs during the perioperative management period for a major 
surgery.  
In the Phase 1/2a study (SYN-FIXFc-07-001) a total of 16 AEs were reported by 7 patients. These AEs 
were distributed evenly across treatment groups. Most AEs were mild. AEs considered to be related to the 
study drug were dysgeusia, and headache. 
No unexpected AEs emerged during the Perioperative Management Period. 
Adverse Drug Reactions:  
Most subjects had TEAEs that were judged by the Investigator as unrelated to the rFIXFc treatment. After 
medical review, a total of 19 AEs were considered as related to study treatment and 18 were included as 
adverse drug reactions (ADRs): palpitations, breath odour, paraesthesia oral, fatigue, infusion site pain, 
decreased appetite, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, hematuria, obstructive uropathy, renal colic, 
hypotension (Table 32). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 79/98 
 
 
  
  
Table 32: Cumulative Summary of Adverse Drug Reactions for All Subjects Enrolled in Studies 
998HB102, 9HB02PED, and 9HB01EXT 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Of the 153 subjects treated with rFIXFc, 39 subjects (25.5 %) experienced a total of 68 serious TEAEs. 
Two of the serious TEAEs (obstructive uropathy and renal colic) were assessed by the Investigator as 
related to rFVIXFc treatment. Six serious TEAEs were ongoing as of the interim data cutoff. The remaining 
serious TEAEs were considered resolved.  
No death occurred in any of the studies. 
Adverse events of Special Interest  
A review of AEs of special interest revealed 17 non-serious AEs of possible allergic reactions, thereof 2 
(dizziness and oral paresthesia) were assessed as related to treatment. All of these events were mild to 
moderate in severity, and none of the events led to treatment discontinuation or subject withdrawal from 
the study. One non-serious AE of thrombotic event occurred, which was assessed as not related. 
Serious bleeding events were reported as 13 serious TEAEs in 11 subjects, thereof I TEAE (renal colic) was 
assessed as related to rFIXFc treatment.  
No reports of inhibitor development, serious related allergic reactions or anaphylaxis and no serious 
vascular thrombotic events were observed. 
Laboratory findings 
Haematology and chemistry parameters were collected and urinalysis was conducted in the rFIX-Fc 
clinical development program and assessed for clinical significance. 
The haematology panel consisted of complete blood count [white blood cell (WBC) count and differential, 
hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit (HCT), and platelet count]. The clinical chemistry panel included 
electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride), glucose, total protein, total bilirubin, alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN), and serum creatinine. Measurements that were collected in Study 998HB102 and/or 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 80/98 
 
 
  
  
Study 9HB02PED but not in Study 9HB01EXT, i.e., red blood cell (RBC) count, phosphate, bicarbonate, 
direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, and gamma glutamyl transferase. 
Laboratory parameters, vital signs and physical findings revealed no particular safety concern.  
Nevertheless, several subjects showed abnormal post-baseline hemoglobin and hematocrit values both in 
the adult and the paediatric populations, that were deemed unrelated to rFIXFc. For study 998HB102 and 
its extension, Hb was below 115g/L in 5.14% of subjects and hematocrit below 37% in 10.2% of patients. 
Furthermore, 11 subjects each had ≥1 TEAE of hypertension. The majority of the 11 subjects who 
reported an AE of hypertension had hypertension in their medical history, reported ongoing treatment 
with antihypertensive drugs as concomitant medications, or had other potential risk factors such as HIV, 
HCV, diabetes, etc. None of the adverse events of hypertension were assessed as related to rFIXFc. In 
addition, the prevalence of hypertension may be increased in haemophilia patients compared to the 
general age-matched male population. 
Safety in special populations 
In the main, type and frequency of AEs were similar between subjects < 12 years of age and subjects ≥ 
12 years of age. Differences in the frequency of certain AEs are expected for the general population of that 
age group. 
No safety concern regarding rFIXFc treatment in subjects with medical history of hepatic diseases, 
HIV/HCV status or by geographic locations was identified. 
The clinical data from the completed studies 998HB102 and the ongoing extension study 9HB01EXT as of 
the data cut off of 17 October 2014, includes 2 subjects ≥65 years of age (2/153, 1.3%).  The 2 subjects 
each experienced at least one serious adverse event (SAE): One subject experienced 2 SAEs of angina 
pectoris; the second subject  experienced 1 SAE of arthralgia. None of the SAEs were assessed as related 
to rFIXFc and none resulted in study discontinuation. 
In total, the 2 subjects ≥65 years of age at time of enrollment into the parent study (Study 998HB102) 
experienced 10 non-serious adverse events (AEs) throughout the parent and extension study as of the 
data cutoff.  None of these AEs led to study discontinuation. The AEs reported included the following: 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (3 events); injury poisoning and procedural 
complications (3 events); infections and infestations (2 events); nervous systems disorders (1 event); 
and vascular disorders (1 event). 
Immunological events 
In trial 998HB102 coagulation activation parameters (prothrombin fragment 1 + 2, TAT complexes, 
D-dimer) were investigated and no changes were detected. 
No inhibitor against rFIXFc was reported in the combined total population of 153 subjects. 
Anti-rFIXFc binding antibodies (ADA)-positive test results were observed both prior to and following 
initiation of treatment with rFIXFc. The overall incidence of ADA-positive test results was 3.9% (6 
subjects; 2.6% [4/153] prior to treatment with rFIXFc and 1.4% [2/148] post treatment with rFIXFc). 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Formal drug-drug interaction studies are generally not applicable for biologic therapies based on 
mechanisms of degradation and elimination. Therefore, no formal drug-drug interaction studies were 
conducted. There were no AEs observed in subjects from Study 998HB102, 9HB02PED, or 9HB01EXT that 
were suggestive of any potential drug-drug interaction with rFIXFc. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 81/98 
  
  
Two subjects (1.3%) of 153, both from Study 998HB102, were reported to have experienced at least 1 
TEAE that led to premature discontinuation of rFIXFc treatment and withdrawal. This included an 
unrelated SAE of road traffic accident and unrelated SAE of device related infection. Both AEs occurred in 
areas where it was not possible to provide rFIXFc for the subjects. 
Post marketing experience 
rFIXFc is commercially available in the United States since 05 May 2014. rFIXFc was approved in Canada 
on 21 March 2014, in Australia on 01 May 2014, and in Japan on 04 July 2014. No new safety signals and 
no new potential or identified risks related to rFIXFc have been identified during the post marketing 
experience as of the DLP of 19 September 2014. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
All 3 completed clinical studies (SYN-FIXFc-07-001, 998HB102 and 9HB02PED) assessed safety of rFIXFc, 
with particular emphasis on immunogenicity and development of rFIXFc antibodies. To date, there have 
been no reports of virus transmission, serious related allergic reactions or anaphylaxis, thromboembolism 
or inhibitor-development related to rFIXFc. An extension study (9HB01EXT), in which subjects coming 
from the pivotal trials are included is currently ongoing 
Requirements of the EMA FIX Guideline for an application for marketing authorisation ask for 40 PTPs to 
be investigated, of whom 20 should be PTPs ≥12 years of age, who have at least 150 EDs, another 10 
PTPs in the age stratum 6 - <12 years and >50 EDs and an additional 10 should be PTPs <6 years of age 
and >50 EDs. Nevertheless, the company decided to allow inclusion of subjects with ≥ 100 EDs into Study 
998HB102 to improve the feasibility of the study (considering the rarity of haemophilia B patients). This 
altered definition might slightly increase the risk for the development of inhibitors. The principle of the 
EMA guidance is to follow a risk-based approach in assessing the immunogenicity of a new FIX product, 
testing in subjects at low risk initially (PTPs ≥ 150 EDs) and proceeding to PUPs only after inhibitor risk has 
been evaluated in PTPs. The company submitted several papers, which should show that the risk of 
inhibitor development in haemophilia patients tends to peak within the first 40 EDs, after which the risk 
plateaus. Despite some of these papers refer to haemophilia A, the risk of inhibitor development in 
haemophilia B patients is lower than in haemophilia A patients. Thus, inclusion of subjects with ≥ 100 EDs 
represents an increased risk for the applicant to observe unfavourable outcomes and therefore no issue 
is raised. 
Guideline requirements regarding patient exposure, with a sufficient number of patients out of the 
relevant age groups exposed over a sufficiently long period of time are fulfilled. The safety database, 
however, is limited with regard to elderly patients as only 2 patients older than 65 years of age were 
included in study 998HB102.  
Furthermore, since higher than the usual factor IX doses are proposed in the SmPC, patient exposure was 
also stratified by dose. Data on exposure for rFIXFc (<50 IU/kg, ≥50 to ≤75 IU/kg, >75 to ≤100 IU/kg, 
and >100 IU/kg) for each of the relevant age groups in adult and pediatric subjects revealed a sufficient 
number of subjects exposed in each of these dose groups to assess clinical safety. Additionally, the 
incidence of AEs and related AEs presented is generally similar for AEs within each dose group. The same 
applies for the incidence of TEAEs and treatment related AEs between the subjects who received doses ≤
100 IU/kg and subjects who received doses >100 IU/kg. The type and incidence of AEs observed in both 
dose groups are consistent with events typically observed in the haemophilia B population. Furthermore, 
no unique safety concerns and no vascular thrombotic events were identified in either dose group with 
respect to TEAES or related TEAEs.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 82/98 
  
  
Remaining listed adverse events from the main studies, which were considered to be related to rFIXFc 
treatment, are appropriately reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC. In the main, type and frequency of AEs 
were similar between subjects < 12 years of age and subjects ≥ 12 years of age. Differences in the 
frequency of certain AEs are expected for the general population of that age group. Of note, only 2 
patients were treated beyond the age of 65 years. 
In summary, 134 patients (87.6%) are mentioned to have at least 1 AE, including AEs during the 
perioperative management period for a major surgery. Two allergic reactions dizziness and paresthesia, 
were considered related by the Investigator and are tabularly depicted in section 4.8 of the SmPC, which 
is endorsed. 
The applicant has adequately assessed the adverse events of special interest for haemophila treatment: 
inhibitor development, allergic reactions and thrombotic events.  Adverse events related to bleeding, 
infections and hepatobiliary events were described but none of them were assessed as related to rFIXFc 
and none of them raised any particular safety concern.  
Laboratory parameters, vital signs and physical findings revealed no safety concern.  As the most 
important safety aspect of a factor IX product, inhibitor development has to be taken into account. 
Procedures and definitions regarding inhibitor testing, as conducted in the context of the clinical 
development programme of rFIXFc, meet the standards set out in the current EMA FIX guidance. 
Furthermore, it was tested for anti-rFIXFc binding antibodies (ADA), which is considered adequate for a 
novel recombinant factor IX product. ADA positive test results could be detected both prior to and 
following initiation of treatment with rFIXFc. The overall incidence of ADA-positive test results was 3.9% 
(6 subjects; 2.6% [4/153] prior to treatment with rFIXFc and 1.4% [2/148] post treatment with rFIXFc). 
The presence of an ADA-positive test result did not have an observed clinical impact on the safety of 
subjects in the parent studies (998HB102 and 9HB02PED) or the extension study and these findings are 
not indicative of a higher than expected inhibitor incidence under treatment with rFIXFc. A study in 
previously untreated patients (PUPs) is still ongoing. 
The theoretical concern, that a subject’s risk of infection might be increased because of saturation of the 
neonatal Fc receptor by rFIXFc, was addressed by the applicant. Neither evaluation of serum IgG levels 
nor review of the respective infection event terms showed any results out of the expected ranges.  
In the Phase 1/2a study (SYN-FIXFc-07-001) AEs were distributed evenly across treatment groups. Most 
AEs were mild in severity. No deaths occurred. No FIX inhibitors or anti- FIXFc antibodies were detected. 
Related AEs dysgeusia and headache are included in the SmPC section 4.8.  
No unexpected AEs emerged during the Perioperative Management Period.  
rFIXFc is commercially available in the United States since 05 May 2014 and approved in Canada, 
Australia and in Japan at around the same time. No new safety signals and no new potential or identified 
risks related to rFIXFc have been identified during the post marketing experience as of the DLP of 19 
September 2014. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The size of the safety database available at the moment exceeds guideline requirements, and the nature 
and frequency of the reported adverse events do not give rise to concern and do not reveal unexpected 
safety signals. rFIXFc was well tolerated in all age groups and safety results are consistent between all 
submitted clinical trials. Therefore the safety database is considered to be sufficient to support a MA. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 83/98 
  
  
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
•  Submission of the final study report from study 9HB01EXT: An Open- Label, Multicenter 
Evaluation of the Long- Term Safety and Efficacy of Recombinant Human Coagulation Factor IX 
Fusion Protein (rFIXFc) in the Prevention and Treatment of Bleeding Episodes in Previously 
Treated Subjects with haemophilia B (safety extension study) 
•  Submission of the final study report from study 998HB303: An Open- Label, Multicenter 
Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of Recombinant Coagulation Factor IX Fc Fusion Protein 
(rFIXFc; BIIB029) in the Prevention and Treatment of Bleeding in Previously Untreated Patients 
with Severe haemophilia B (PUPs study) 
•  Submission of Data collected from participation in the European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance 
System (EUHASS) registry to be provided on an ongoing basis with the PSUR 
•  Submission of data collected from participation in the European Pediatric Network (PedNet) 
registry to be provided on an ongoing basis with the PSUR 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Inhibitor development to rFIXFc 
Serious hypersensitivity, serious allergic reaction, 
and/or anaphylaxis 
Important potential risks 
Serious vascular thromboembolic events 
Medication errors 
Missing information 
Safety profile in patients >65 years old 
Safety profile in women (including pregnant and 
breast-feeding women) 
Safety profile in PUPs 
Use of rFIXFc for ITI 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Study/activity type, 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for submission 
title and category (1-3) 
concerns 
(planned, 
of interim or final 
addressed 
started) 
reports (planned or 
actual) 
9HB01EXT:  
The primary 
Long-term 
Ongoing 
Submission date 
An Open- Label, 
objective of 
safety 
Multicenter Evaluation of 
the study is 
evaluation 
the Long- Term Safety and 
to evaluate 
Safety 
Efficacy of Recombinant 
the 
Human Coagulation Factor 
long-term 
profile in 
patients 
IX Fusion Protein (rFIXFc) 
safety of 
≥65 years 
in the Prevention and  
Treatment of Bleeding 
rFIXFc in 
subjects 
old 
Episodes in Previously 
with 
Treated Subjects with 
Haemophilia 
dependent on study 
finish dates. Study 
last patient, last visit 
by Q4 2017. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 84/98 
  
  
Study/activity type, 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for submission 
title and category (1-3) 
concerns 
(planned, 
of interim or final 
addressed 
started) 
reports (planned or 
actual) 
Haemophilia B (safety 
B. 
extension study, Category 
3) 
998HB303:  
The primary 
Safety 
Ongoing 
Final: Submission 
An Open- Label, 
objective of 
profile in 
Multicenter Evaluation of 
the study is 
PUPs<18 
the Safety and Efficacy of 
to evaluate 
years old 
Recombinant Coagulation 
the safety of 
Factor IX Fc Fusion Protein 
rFIXFc in 
(rFIXFc; BIIB029) in the 
previously 
Prevention and Treatment 
untreated 
of Bleeding in Previously 
subjects 
Untreated Patients with 
with severe 
Severe Haemophilia B 
Haemophilia 
(PUPs study, Category 3) 
B. 
date dependent on 
study finish dates. 
Study last patient, 
last visit by June 2019 
as per the agreed PIP 
(EMEA-C1- 
000914-PIP01-10- 
M02). 
Data collected from 
Monitor the 
Inhibitor 
Planned – 
Not applicable.  
participation in the 
safety of 
development 
will start 
Data will be reviewed 
European Haemophilia 
treatments 
Safety Surveillance System 
for people 
Serious 
allergic 
upon 
on an ongoing basis 
product 
as a part of 
(EUHASS) registry to be 
with 
reactions or 
launch in 
pharmacovigilance 
provided on an ongoing 
haemophilia, 
anaphylaxis  
the EU 
signal detection and 
basis (Category 3) 
including 
Elocta. 
Serious 
vascular 
thrombotic 
events 
reported within the 
PSURs when 
available. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 85/98 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Study/activity type, 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for submission 
title and category (1-3) 
concerns 
(planned, 
of interim or final 
addressed 
started) 
reports (planned or 
actual) 
Data collected from 
To establish 
Inhibitor 
Ongoing 
Not applicable. 
participation in the 
large well 
development 
European Pediatric 
documented 
Network (PedNet) registry 
birth cohorts 
to be provided on an 
of patients 
ongoing basis (Category 3) 
with 
haemophilia, 
enabling 
studies on 
side effects 
and outcome 
of treatment 
Data will be reviewed 
on an ongoing basis 
as a part of 
pharmacovigilance 
signal detection and 
reported within the 
PSURs when 
available. 
*Category 1 are imposed activities considered key to the benefit risk of the product. 
Category 2 are specific obligations 
Category 3 are required additional PhV activity (to address specific safety concerns or to measure effectiveness of risk 
minimisation measures) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional risk minimization 
measures 
Inhibitor development 
Section 4.4 of SmPC: 
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed. 
to rFIXFc 
After repeated treatment with human 
coagulation factor IX products, patients 
should be monitored for the development of 
neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) that 
should be quantified in Bethesda Units (BU) 
using appropriate biological testing.  
There have been reports in the literature 
showing a correlation between the 
occurrence of a factor IX inhibitor and 
allergic reactions.  Therefore, patients 
experiencing allergic reactions should be 
evaluated for the presence of an inhibitor.  It 
should be noted that patients with factor IX 
inhibitors may be at an increased risk of 
anaphylaxis with subsequent challenge with 
factor IX.  
Because of the risk of allergic reactions with 
factor IX products, the initial administrations 
of factor IX should, according to the treating 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 86/98 
 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional risk minimization 
measures 
physician’s judgement, be performed under 
medical observation where proper medical 
care for allergic reactions could be provided. 
Section 4.8 of SmPC: 
Patients with haemophilia B may develop 
neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) to 
factor IX.  If such inhibitors occur, the 
condition will manifest itself as an insufficient 
clinical response.  In such cases, it is 
recommended that a specialised haemophilia 
centre be contacted. 
Package leaflet (warnings and 
precautions):  
Talk to your doctor if you think that your 
bleeding is not being controlled with the dose 
you receive, as there can be several reasons 
for this.  For example, the formation of 
antibodies (also known as inhibitors) to 
factor IX is a known complication that can 
occur during the treatment of haemophilia B.  
The antibodies prevent the treatment from 
working properly.  This would be checked by 
your doctor.  Do not increase the total dose 
of ALPROLIX to control your bleed without 
talking to your doctor. 
Serious 
hypersensitivity, 
serious allergic 
reactions, and/or 
anaphylaxis 
Section 4.4 of SmPC: 
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed. 
Allergic type hypersensitivity reactions are 
possible with ALPROLIX.  If symptoms of 
hypersensitivity occur, patients should be 
advised to discontinue use of the medicinal 
product immediately and contact their 
physician.  Patients should be informed of the 
early signs of hypersensitivity reactions 
including hives, generalised urticaria, 
tightness of the chest, wheezing, 
hypotension, and anaphylaxis.  
In case of anaphylactic shock, standard 
medical treatment for shock should be 
implemented. 
Inhibitors: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 87/98 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional risk minimization 
measures 
There have been reports in the literature 
showing a correlation between the 
occurrence of a factor IX inhibitor and allergic 
reactions.  Therefore, patients experiencing 
allergic reactions should be evaluated for the 
presence of an inhibitor.  It should be noted 
that patients with factor IX inhibitors may be 
at an increased risk of anaphylaxis with 
subsequent challenge with factor IX.  
Because of the risk of allergic reactions with 
factor IX products, the initial administrations 
of factor IX should, according to the treating 
physician’s judgement, be performed under 
medical observation where proper medical 
care for allergic reactions could be provided. 
Section 4.8 of SmPC: 
Hypersensitivity or allergic reactions (which 
may include angioedema, burning and 
stinging at the infusion site, chills, flushing, 
generalised urticaria, headache, hives, 
hypotension, lethargy, nausea, restlessness, 
tachycardia, tightness of the chest, tingling, 
vomiting, wheezing) have been observed 
rarely and may in some cases progress to 
severe anaphylaxis (including shock).  In 
some cases, these reactions have progressed 
to severe anaphylaxis, and they have 
occurred in close temporal association with 
development of factor IX inhibitors. 
Package leaflet (warnings and 
precautions): 
There is a small chance that you may 
experience an anaphylactic reaction (a 
severe, sudden allergic reaction) to 
ALPROLIX.  Signs of allergic reactions may 
include generalised itching, hives, tightness 
of the chest, difficulty breathing, and low 
blood pressure.  If any of these symptoms 
occur, stop the injection immediately and 
contact your doctor. 
Patients with a factor IX inhibitor may be at 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 88/98 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional risk minimization 
measures 
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed. 
an increased risk of anaphylaxis during 
future treatment with factor IX.  Therefore, if 
you experience allergic reactions such as 
those described above, you should be tested 
for the presence of an inhibitor. 
Vascular 
Section 4.4 of SmPC: 
thromboembolic 
events 
Because of the potential risk of thrombotic 
complications with factor IX products, clinical 
surveillance for early signs of thrombotic and 
consumptive coagulopathy should be 
initiated with appropriate biological testing 
when administering this product to patients 
with liver disease, to patients 
post-operatively, to new-born infants, or to 
patients at risk of thrombotic phenomena or 
disseminated intravascular coagulation 
(DIC).  The benefit of treatment with 
ALPROLIX in these situations should be 
weighed against the risk of these 
complications. 
Section 4.8 of SmPC: 
There is a potential risk of thromboembolic 
episodes following the administration of 
factor IX products, with a higher risk for low 
purity preparations.  The use of low purity 
factor IX products has been associated with 
instances of myocardial infarction, 
disseminated intravascular coagulation, 
venous thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism.  The use of high purity factor IX is 
rarely associated with thromboembolic 
complications.  ALPROLIX is a high purity 
factor IX product. 
Package leaflet (warnings and 
precautions) 
Factor IX products may increase the risk of 
forming abnormal blood clots in your body, 
especially if you have risk factors for 
developing blood clots.  Symptoms of a 
possible abnormal blood clot may include: 
pain and/or tenderness along a vein, 
unexpected swelling of an arm or leg, or 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 89/98 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional risk minimization 
measures 
sudden shortness of breath or difficulty 
breathing. 
Medication errors  
Section 4.2 of SmPC:  
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed 
Treatment monitoring 
During the course of treatment, appropriate 
determination of factor IX levels is advised to 
guide the dose to be administered and the 
frequency of repeated injections.  Individual 
patients may vary in their response to factor 
IX, demonstrating different half-lives and 
recoveries.  Dose based on bodyweight may 
require adjustment in underweight or 
overweight patients.  In the case of major 
surgical interventions in particular, precise 
monitoring of the substitution therapy by 
means of coagulation analysis (plasma factor 
IX activity) is indispensable. 
When using an in vitro thromboplastin time 
(aPTT)-based one stage clotting assay for 
determining factor IX activity in patients’ 
blood samples, plasma factor IX activity 
results can be significantly affected by both 
the type of aPTT reagent and the reference 
standard used in the assay.  This is of 
importance particularly when changing the 
laboratory and/or reagents used in the 
assay.  
Measurements with a one-stage clotting 
assay utilising a kaolin-based aPTT reagent 
will likely result in an underestimation of 
activity level. 
Package leaflet 
3. How to use ALPROLIX 
Treatment with ALPROLIX will be started by a 
doctor who is experienced in the care of 
patients with haemophilia.  Always use this 
medicine exactly as your doctor has told you 
(see section 7).  Check with your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
7. Instructions for preparation and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 90/98 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional risk minimization 
measures 
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed.  
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed. 
administration 
Check the name and strength of the package, 
to make sure it contains the correct product. 
Safety profile in 
Section 4.2 of SmPC: 
patients ≥65 years old 
There is limited experience in patients 
≥65 years. 
Safety profile in 
Section 4.6 of the SmPC: 
women, including 
pregnant and 
breast-feeding women 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Animal reproduction studies have not been 
conducted with ALPROLIX.  A placental 
transfer study in mice was conducted (see 
section 5.3).  Based on the rare occurrence 
of haemophilia B in women, experience 
regarding the use of factor IX during 
pregnancy and breast-feeding is not 
available.  Therefore, factor IX should be 
used during pregnancy and breast-feeding 
only if clearly indicated. 
Fertility 
There are no fertility data available.  No 
fertility studies have been conducted in 
animals with ALPROLIX. 
Package leaflet (warnings and 
precautions) 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think 
you may be pregnant or are planning to have 
a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for 
advice before taking this medicine. 
Safety profile in PUPs  Section 4.2 of the SmPC: 
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed. 
The safety and efficacy of ALPROLIX in 
previously untreated patients have not yet 
been established.  No data are available. 
Use of rFIXFc for ITI 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
No additional risk minimization 
measures are proposed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 91/98 
 
  
  
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.3 is acceptable.  
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) is included in the 
additional monitoring list as it contains a new active substance which, on 1 January 2011, was not 
contained in any medicinal product authorised in the EU.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Clinical data supporting this application are derived from three completed and one ongoing clinical study. 
Pharmacokinetic results show that rFIXFc has an improved PK profile compared to other licensed FIX 
products. In adults the comparison against Benefix showed a 2.42-fold prolonged t1/2 for rFIXFc and 
increased AUC (1.9 fold), MRT (2.39 fold) and estimated time to trough levels of 1% and 3% while the CL 
was decreased (0.51 fold). Also in the paediatric trial PK results show that rFIXFc has a prolonged terminal 
half-life and reduced CL compared to pre-study FIX products. The repeat PK evaluation in a subset of 
patients after 26 weeks demonstrates comparability to the PK parameters obtained after first dosing. 
The weekly dose of rFIXFc for subjects on weekly prophylaxis (Arm 1) decreased from the starting 
regimen of 50 IU/kg to a median of 45.17 IU/kg (range 25.0 to 74.3 kg IU/kg) when averaged over all 
eligible doses administered during the efficacy period.  The dosing interval of rFIXFc for subjects on 
individualized interval prophylaxis (Arm 2) started at 10 days, with a median interval when averaged over 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 92/98 
 
  
  
all eligible dosing intervals during the efficacy period of 12.53 days (range 7.8 to 15.9 days). Regarding 
the efficacy of rFIXFc in the treatment of bleeding events, 97.3% of bleeding episodes were controlled 
with 2 or fewer injections of Alprolix, with 90.4% controlled by 1 injection. No bleeding episodes required 
more than 3 injections.  
The mean bleeding rates based on observed data [3.07, 2.45, and 17.69 in Arms 1 (prophylaxis, fixed 7 
day interval), 2 (prophylaxis, fixed dose of 100 IU/kg), and 3 (on demand treatment), respectively] 
confirm the beneficial effect of prophylaxis with Alprolix observed in the pivotal trial in PTPs ≥ 12. These 
annualized bleeding rates also compare favourably to published results from trials with other licensed FIX 
products. The weekly dose of rFIXFc for subjects on weekly prophylaxis (Arm 1) decreased from the 
starting regimen of 50 IU/kg to a median of 45.17 IU/kg (range 25.0 to 74.3 kg IU/kg) when averaged 
over all eligible doses administered during the efficacy period.  The dosing interval of rFIXFc for subjects 
on individualized interval prophylaxis (Arm 2) started at 10 days, with a median interval when averaged 
over all eligible dosing intervals during the efficacy period of 12.53 days (range 7.8 to 15.9 days). 
Regarding the efficacy of rFIXFc in the treatment of bleeding events, 97.3% of bleeding episodes were 
controlled with 2 or fewer injections of Alprolix, with 90.4% controlled by 1 injection. No bleeding 
episodes required more than 3 injections.  
In the paediatric population of trial 9HB02PED the mean annualized bleeding rate was 1.72 in the <6 
years of age cohort, 2.80 in the 6 to <12 years of age cohort, and 2.26 in the total of both age cohorts. 
The median average dosing interval during the Efficacy Period was 6.99 days (range: 5.9 to 10.8 days), 
with no difference in median average dosing interval between cohorts. The majority of bleeding episodes 
were resolved by 2 or fewer injections (95.5%, 89.5% and 91.7% of subjects <6 years of age, subjects 
6 to <12 years of age, and the total of both age cohorts, respectively).  
Proof of efficacy of Alprolix during surgery is based on 29 major surgeries performed in 19 subjects in the 
pivotal phase 3 studies (998HB102 and 9HB02PED) and the ongoing extension study (9HB01EXT). In 
addition, 43 minor surgeries were undertaken in the same timeframe. The vast majority of evaluable 
surgeries were assessed as excellent or good by the surgeon or investigator. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Data regarding the use of Alprolix in previously untreated patients are currently missing; an Open- Label, 
Multicenter Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of rFIXFc in the Prevention and Treatment of Bleeding in 
Previously Untreated Patients with Severe haemophilia B (PUPs study) is expected to provide this 
information in the post authorisation setting (see RMP). 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The size of the safety database available at the moment is satisfactory and exceeds guideline 
requirements.  The nature and frequency of the reported adverse events do not give rise to concern and 
do not reveal unexpected safety signals.  
Only a small proportion of observed AEs (18/869) in 15 subjects were assessed as related and Adverse 
Drug Reactions to rFIX-Fc y the investigators: palpitations (1x), breath odour (1x), paraesthesia oral 
(2x), fatigue (1x), infusion site pain (1x), decreased appetite (1x), dizziness (1x), dysgeusia (1x), 
headache (2x), hematuria (1x), obstructive uropathy (2x), renal colic (1x), hypotension (1x).  
No related SAEs occurred and importantly, no inhibitor development, thromboembolic event or serious 
allergic reactions were observed. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 93/98 
  
  
Due to the rarity of the disease the safety database is relatively small although exceeds guideline 
requirements. Nonetheless, it is limited with regard to the elderly since only 2 patients older than 65 years 
of age participated in studies. This is included as missing information in the RMP. Apart from that, the 
database will be expanded by data gathered in the ongoing studies (9HB01EXT, 998HB303).  
Data on long-term safety will be obtained in the post-marketing phase through ongoing studies (final 
study report from study 9HB01EXT) and registries. These data will include information in the elderly 
which is currently missing.  
Data in previously untreated patients will be provided with the submission of the final study report from 
PUPs study 998HB303: An Open- Label, Multicenter Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of Recombinant 
Coagulation Factor IX Fc Fusion Protein (rFIXFc; BIIB029) in the Prevention and Treatment of Bleeding in 
Previously Untreated Patients with Severe Haemophilia B (PUPs study). 
Effects table 
Table 33. Effects Table for Alprolix 
Effect 
Short 
Description 
Favourable Effects 
Unit 
rFIX-Fc 
Control 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
References 
Benefix 
(998HB1
02) 
Previous 
FIX 
products 
(9HB02P
ED) 
- 
56.7 
Small number of subjects  PK in the 
77.6 
32.13 
66.49 (<6 
y.) 
70.34 
(6-<12 
y.) 
Different sampling time 
points rFIXFc - 
comparator 
Different sampling time 
points rFIXFc - 
comparator 
target 
population 
PK in the 
target 
population 
PK special 
population 
PK 
Half-life 
h 
Trial 
SYN-FIX
Fc-07-00
1 
Trial 
998HB1
02 
Trial 
9HB02P
ED 
Mean t 1/2ß 
(2-compartmen
tal model) 
Mean t ½ 
(non-compartm
ental methods) 
Mean t ½ 
(non-compartm
ental methods) 
h 
h 
h 
Prophylaxis 
Bleeding 
rate 
Annualized 
bleeding rate 
n/year 
(mean) 
Trial 998HB102 
Arm 1 
Arm 2 
Arm 3 
Prophylaxis, 
fixed 7 day 
interval 
Prophylaxis, 
fixed dose of 
100 IU/kg 
On demand 
treatment of 
BEs 
3.07 
63 
2.45 
29 
17.69  
27 
- 
- 
- 
Subjects not randomized 
but assigned to treatment 
arm after discussion with 
the investigator 
Summary of 
main efficacy 
results 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 94/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Effect 
Short 
Description 
Trial 9HB02PED 
Unit 
rFIX-Fc 
Control 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
References 
<6 years 
≥6 - <12 
Prophylaxis 
once weekly, 
starting dose of 
50-60 IU/kg 
1.72   
15 
2.80  
15 
- 
- 
Treatment of bleeding 
events 
% 
Trial 998HB102 
97.3%  
636 BEs 
- 
Trial 9HB02PED 
% controlled with ≤ 2 
infusions 
91.7 
60 BEs 
- 
Surgery 
% 
Trial 998HB102 
Major 
Minor 
% excellent or 
good 
100 
14 
91.66 
12 
Trial 9HB02PED 
Major 
Minor 
% excellent or 
good 
- 
100 
- 
3 
9HB01EXT 
Major  
Minor 
% excellent or 
good 
100 
14 
100 
10 
Unfavourable Effects 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Summary of 
main efficacy 
results 
Summary of 
main efficacy 
results 
Summary of 
main efficacy 
results 
Summary of 
main efficacy 
results 
Supportive 
Study 
Related 
AEs 
From a total of 
869 AEs in 
133/153 subj. 
palpitations 
Breath odour 
Paraesthesia 
oral 
Fatigue 
Infusion site 
pain 
Decreased 
appetite 
# 
18 
(none) 
Discussion on 
safety 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 95/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Effect 
Short 
Description 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia 
Headache  
Haematuria 
Obstructive 
uropathy 
Renal colic 
Hypotension  
Unit 
rFIX-Fc 
Control 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
References 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
FIX Inhibitor 
BU/ml 
AEs of 
special 
interest 
Thrombotic 
event 
AE 
incidenc
e 
(none) 
(none) 
No 
inhibitor 
could be 
observed 
1 case of 
device 
occlusion 
study procedures for 
inhibitor evaluation meet 
current standards  
All studies 
Abbreviations: 
Notes:  
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The submitted PK data show a prolonged half-life of rFIXFc compared to other non-prolonged FIX 
products. Furthermore, prophylactic as well as haemostatic efficacy of rFIXFc was demonstrated in clinical 
studies. From these data extended treatment intervals for prophylactic dosing are in general supported. 
The currently available treatments usually require multiples injections, 2-3 per week. The majority of the 
patients in the clinical trials have been treated with 50IU/Kg once per week.  The dose regimen of Alprolix 
can be further prolonged to administrations every 10 days with 100 IU/kg in individual patients. This can 
be considered as an advantage to the patient in this therapeutic area as it is expected to reduce the 
burden of prophylactic treatment and preserve the venous access.  
The safety profile of rFIXFc seems to be in line with other FIX products from the data presented so far. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The benefit – risk balance in the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia B is 
considered positive.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Overall, efficacy of rFIXFc for preventing bleeding episodes, treatment of breakthrough bleeds, 
on-demand treatment and surgical prophylaxis in adults and children is shown. PK results show that 
rFIXFc has an improved PK profile compared to other licensed FIX products (prolonged t1/2, increased 
AUC, MRT, decreased CL). Efficacy and safety were demonstrated in the prophylactic setting, in the 
on-demand treatment of bleeding events and break-through bleeds with different dosing regimens as well 
as in surgical interventions (29 major surgeries performed in 19 subjects).  
The safety profile of rFIXFc is comparable to other FIX products but due to the small haemophilia B 
population the safety database is rather small compared to other new medicinal products. Only a small 
proportion of observed AEs (18/869) in 15 subjects were assessed as related and Adverse Drug Reactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 96/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
to rFIX-Fc by the investigators. No related SAEs occurred and importantly, no inhibitor development, 
thromboembolic event or serious allergic reactions were observed. Additional information in long-term 
use and use in PUPs will be provided from ongoing studies and registries in the post-marketing.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the risk-benefit balance of Alprolix in the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency). ALPROLIX can be used for all age groups, is favourable 
and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 97/98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
No applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to 
be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP considers 
that eftrenonacog alfa is qualified as a new active substance. 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed Paediatric 
Investigation Plan P/0303/2014 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/196953/2016 
Page 98/98 
 
  
  
