Summary of RMP for Alunbrig (brigatinib) 
This is a summary of the RMP for Alunbrig. The RMP details important risks of Alunbrig, how 
these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about Alunbrig’s risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Alunbrig’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to HCPs and patients on how Alunbrig should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Alunbrig should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Alunbrig’s 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For
Alunbrig is authorized for the treatment of adult patients with ALK+ advanced NSCLC 
previously treated with crizotinib and as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with 
ALK+ advanced NSCLC previously not treated with an ALK inhibitor (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains brigatinib as the active substance and it is given by mouth. 
Further information about the evaluation of Alunbrig’s benefits can be found in Alunbrig’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medicines/004248/hum 
an_med_002314.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further Characterize 
the Risks
Important risks of Alunbrig, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Alunbrig's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and
SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs.
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging.
• The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly.
• The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of Alunbrig, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Alunbrig is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Alunbrig are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Alunbrig. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
•  Pulmonary toxicity (including EOPE and later-onset pneumonitis). 
Missing information 
•  None 
Abbreviation: EOPE, early onset pulmonary event(s) 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: Pulmonary Toxicity (including EOPE and later-onset pneumonitis) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
On the basis of clinical study results, there is sufficient evidence 
demonstrating potential causal association. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
Increasing age (>60 years) and shorter interval between last 
dose of crizotinib and first dose of brigatinib (<7-day interval) are 
considered to be specific risk factors for pulmonary events. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 
4.2 Posology and method of administration (ILD/pneumonitis) 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use (Pulmonary 
adverse reactions) 
4.8 Undesirable effects (Pulmonary adverse reactions) 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
PAC 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Brigatinib PASS 
Missing Information: None 
 
 
 
II.C. Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies Which Are Conditions of the MA 
•  There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Alunbrig. 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
Brigatinib PASS 
Purpose of the study: 
•  To describe the occurrence and risk factors of EOPE in patients with ALK+ NSCLC 
receiving brigatinib. 
•  To assess the receipt and use of the PAC in patients treated with brigatinib. 
 
