ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 30 mg of brigatinib. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 56 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 90 mg of brigatinib. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 168 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 180 mg of brigatinib. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 336 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
Round, white to off-white film-coated tablet of approximately 7 mm in diameter with debossed “U3” 
on one side and plain on the other side. 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
Oval, white to off-white film-coated tablet of approximately 15 mm in length with debossed “U7” on 
one side and plain on the other side. 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
Oval, white to off-white film-coated tablet of approximately 19 mm in length with debossed “U13” on 
one side and plain on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Alunbrig is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic lymphoma 
kinase (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously not treated with an 
ALK inhibitor. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alunbrig is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with ALK-positive advanced 
NSCLC previously treated with crizotinib. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Alunbrig should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer medicinal products. 
ALK-positive NSCLC status should be known prior to initiation of Alunbrig therapy. A validated 
ALK assay is necessary for the selection of ALK-positive NSCLC patients (see section 5.1). 
Assessment for ALK-positive NSCLC should be performed by laboratories with demonstrated 
proficiency in the specific technology being utilised. 
Posology 
The recommended starting dose of Alunbrig is 90 mg once daily for the first 7 days, then 180 mg once 
daily.  
If Alunbrig is interrupted for 14 days or longer for reasons other than adverse reactions, treatment 
should be resumed at 90 mg once daily for 7 days before increasing to the previously tolerated dose. 
If a dose is missed or vomiting occurs after taking a dose, an additional dose should not be 
administered and the next dose should be taken at the scheduled time. 
Treatment should continue as long as clinical benefit is observed. 
Dose adjustments 
Dosing interruption and/or dose reduction may be required based on individual safety and tolerability.  
Alunbrig dose reduction levels are summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1: Recommended Alunbrig dose reduction levels 
Dose 
90 mg once daily  
(first 7 days) 
180 mg once daily 
Dose reduction levels 
First 
reduce to 60 mg once 
daily 
reduce to 120 mg once 
daily 
Second 
permanently 
discontinue 
reduce to 90 mg once 
daily 
Third 
not applicable 
reduce to 60 mg once 
daily 
Alunbrig should be permanently discontinued if patient is unable to tolerate the 60 mg once daily dose. 
Recommendations for dose modifications of Alunbrig for the management of adverse reactions are 
summarised in Table 2. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Recommended Alunbrig dose modifications for adverse reactions 
Adverse reaction 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
(ILD)/pneumonitis 
Severity* 
Grade 1  
Grade 2  
Dose modification 
• 
If event occurs during the first 7 days of treatment, 
Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
baseline, then resumed at same dose level and not 
escalated to 180 mg once daily.  
If ILD/pneumonitis occurs after the first 7 days of 
treatment, Alunbrig should be withheld until 
recovery to baseline, then resumed at same dose 
level.  
If ILD/pneumonitis recurs, Alunbrig should be 
permanently discontinued.  
If ILD/pneumonitis occurs during the first 7 days of 
treatment, Alunbrig should be withheld until 
recovery to baseline, then resumed at next lower 
dose level as described in Table 1 and not escalated 
to 180 mg once daily.  
If ILD/pneumonitis occurs after the first 7 days of 
treatment, Alunbrig should be withheld until 
recovery to baseline. Alunbrig should be resumed at 
next lower dose level as described in Table 1.  
If ILD/pneumonitis recurs, Alunbrig should be 
permanently discontinued. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypertension 
Grade 3 or 4  
Grade 3 hypertension 
(SBP ≥ 160 mmHg or 
DBP ≥ 100 mmHg, 
medical intervention 
indicated, more than 
one anti-hypertensive 
medicinal product, or 
more intensive therapy 
than previously used 
indicated) 
Grade 4 hypertension 
(life threatening 
consequences, urgent 
intervention indicated)  
•  Alunbrig should be permanently discontinued. 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until hypertension has 
recovered to Grade ≤ 1 (SBP < 140 mmHg and 
DBP < 90 mmHg), then resumed at same dose. 
If Grade 3 hypertension recurs, Alunbrig should be 
withheld until hypertension has recovered to 
Grade ≤ 1 then resumed at the next lower dose level 
per Table 1 or permanently discontinued. 
• 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until hypertension has 
recovered to Grade ≤ 1 (SBP < 140 mmHg and 
DBP < 90 mmHg), then resumed at the next lower 
dose level per Table 1 or permanently discontinued. 
If Grade 4 hypertension recurs, Alunbrig should be 
permanently discontinued. 
• 
4 
 
Adverse reaction 
Bradycardia (heart 
rate less than 
60 bpm) 
Severity* 
Symptomatic 
bradycardia 
Bradycardia with 
life-threatening 
consequences, urgent 
intervention indicated 
Elevation of CPK 
Grade 3 or 4 elevation 
of CPK (> 5.0 × ULN) 
with Grade ≥ 2 muscle 
pain or weakness  
Elevation of lipase 
or amylase 
Grade 3 elevation of 
lipase or amylase 
(> 2.0 × ULN)  
Grade 4 elevation of 
lipase or amylase 
(> 5.0 x ULN)  
Dose modification 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
• 
• 
• 
asymptomatic bradycardia or to a resting heart rate 
of 60 bpm or above. 
If a concomitant medicinal product known to cause 
bradycardia is identified and discontinued, or its 
dose is adjusted, Alunbrig should be resumed at 
same dose upon recovery to asymptomatic 
bradycardia or to a resting heart rate of 60 bpm or 
above. 
If no concomitant medicinal product known to 
cause bradycardia is identified, or if contributing 
concomitant medicinal products are not 
discontinued or dose modified, Alunbrig should be 
resumed at the next lower dose level per Table 1 
upon recovery to asymptomatic bradycardia or to a 
resting heart rate of 60 bpm or above. 
If contributing concomitant medicinal product is 
identified and discontinued, or its dose is adjusted, 
Alunbrig should be resumed at the next lower dose 
level per Table 1 upon recovery to asymptomatic 
bradycardia or to a resting heart rate of 60 bpm or 
above, with frequent monitoring as clinically 
indicated.  
•  Alunbrig should be permanently discontinued if no 
contributing concomitant medicinal product is 
identified. 
•  Alunbrig should be permanently discontinued in 
case of recurrence. 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
• 
Grade ≤ 1 (≤ 2.5 × ULN) elevation of CPK or to 
baseline, then resumed at the same dose. 
If Grade 3 or 4 elevation of CPK recurs with 
Grade ≥ 2 muscle pain or weakness, Alunbrig 
should be withheld until recovery to 
Grade ≤ 1 (≤ 2.5 × ULN) elevation of CPK or to 
baseline, then resumed at the next lower dose level 
per Table 1. 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
Grade ≤ 1 (≤ 1.5 × ULN) or to baseline, then 
resumed at same dose. 
If Grade 3 elevation of lipase or amylase recurs, 
Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
Grade ≤ 1 (≤ 1.5 × ULN) or to baseline, then 
resumed at the next lower dose level per Table 1. 
• 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
Grade ≤ 1 (≤ 1.5 × ULN), then resumed at the next 
lower dose level per Table 1. 
5 
Adverse reaction 
Hepatotoxicity 
Hyperglycaemia 
Severity* 
Grade ≥ 3 elevation 
(> 5.0 × ULN) of 
either alanine 
aminotransferase 
(ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase 
(AST) with bilirubin 
≤ 2 × ULN 
Grade ≥ 2 elevation 
(> 3 × ULN) of ALT 
or AST with 
concurrent total 
bilirubin 
elevation > 2 × ULN 
in the absence of 
cholestasis or 
haemolysis 
For Grade 3 (greater 
than 250 mg/dL or 
13.9 mmol/L) or 
greater 
Visual disturbance  Grade 2 or 3 
Other adverse 
reactions 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Grade 4  
Dose modification 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
baseline or less than or equal to 3 × ULN, then 
resumed at next lower dose per Table 1. 
•  Alunbrig should be permanently discontinued. 
• 
If adequate hyperglycaemic control cannot be 
achieved with optimal medical management, 
Alunbrig should be withheld until adequate 
hyperglycaemic control is achieved. Upon recovery, 
Alunbrig may either be resumed at the next lower 
dose per Table 1 or permanently discontinued.  
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
Grade 1 or baseline, then resumed at the next lower 
dose level per Table 1. 
•  Alunbrig should be permanently discontinued. 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
baseline, then resumed at the same dose level. 
If the Grade 3 event recurs, Alunbrig should be 
withheld until recovery to baseline, then resumed at 
the next lower dose level as per Table 1 or 
permanently discontinued. 
• 
•  Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to 
• 
baseline, then resumed at the next lower dose level 
as per Table 1. 
If the Grade 4 event recurs, Alunbrig should be 
withheld until recovery to baseline, then resumed at 
the next lower dose level as per Table 1 or 
permanently discontinued. 
bpm = beats per minute; CPK = Creatine Phosphokinase; DBP = diastolic blood pressure; SBP = systolic blood pressure; 
ULN = upper limit of normal 
*Graded per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Version 4.0 (NCI CTCAE v4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
The limited data on the safety and efficacy of Alunbrig in patients aged 65 years and older suggest that 
a dose adjustment is not required in elderly patients (see section 4.8). There are no available data on 
patients over 85 years of age. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment of Alunbrig is required for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
class A) or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). A reduced starting dose of 60 mg once 
daily for the first 7 days, then 120 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh class C) (see section 5.2). 
6 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment of Alunbrig is required for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment 
(estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ≥ 30 mL/min). A reduced starting dose of 60 mg once 
daily for the first 7 days, then 90 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe renal 
impairment (eGFR < 30 mL/min) (see section 5.2). Patients with severe renal impairment should be 
closely monitored for new or worsening respiratory symptoms that may indicate ILD/pneumonitis 
(e.g., dyspnoea, cough, etc.) particularly in the first week (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Alunbrig in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established. No 
data are available. 
Method of administration 
Alunbrig is for oral use. The tablets should be swallowed whole and with water. Alunbrig may be 
taken with or without food. 
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice may increase plasma concentrations of brigatinib and should be avoided 
(see section 4.5).  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Pulmonary adverse reactions 
Severe, life-threatening, and fatal pulmonary adverse reactions, including those with features 
consistent with ILD/pneumonitis, can occur in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8).  
Most pulmonary adverse reactions were observed within the first 7 days of treatment. Grade 1-2 
pulmonary adverse reactions resolved with interruption of treatment or dose modification. Increased 
age and shorter interval (less than 7 days) between the last dose of crizotinib and the first dose of 
Alunbrig were independently associated with an increased rate of these pulmonary adverse reactions. 
These factors should be considered when initiating treatment with Alunbrig. Patients with a history of 
ILD or drug-induced pneumonitis were excluded from the pivotal trials.  
Some patients experienced pneumonitis later in treatment with Alunbrig. 
Patients should be monitored for new or worsening respiratory symptoms (e.g., dyspnoea, cough, etc.), 
particularly in the first week of treatment. Evidence of pneumonitis in any patient with worsening 
respiratory symptoms should be promptly investigated. If pneumonitis is suspected, the dose of 
Alunbrig should be withheld, and the patient evaluated for other causes of symptoms (e.g., pulmonary 
embolism, tumour progression, and infectious pneumonia). The dose should be modified accordingly 
(see section 4.2). 
Hypertension 
Hypertension has occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). 
Blood pressure should be monitored regularly during treatment with Alunbrig. Hypertension should be 
treated according to standard guidelines to control blood pressure. Heart rate should be monitored 
more frequently in patients if concomitant use of a medicinal product known to cause bradycardia 
cannot be avoided. For severe hypertension (≥ Grade 3), Alunbrig should be withheld until 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypertension has recovered to Grade 1 or to baseline. The dose should be modified accordingly (see 
section 4.2). 
Bradycardia 
Bradycardia has occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). Caution should be 
exercised when administering Alunbrig in combination with other agents known to cause bradycardia. 
Heart rate and blood pressure should be monitored regularly.  
If symptomatic bradycardia occurs, treatment with Alunbrig should be withheld and concomitant 
medicinal products known to cause bradycardia should be evaluated. Upon recovery, the dose should 
be modified accordingly (see section 4.2). In case of life-threatening bradycardia, if no contributing 
concomitant medication is identified or in case of recurrence, treatment with Alunbrig should be 
discontinued (see section 4.2). 
Visual disturbance 
Visual disturbance adverse reactions have occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). 
Patients should be advised to report any visual symptoms. For new or worsening severe visual 
symptoms, an ophthalmologic evaluation and dose reduction should be considered (see section 4.2). 
Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevation 
Elevations of CPK have occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). Patients should be 
advised to report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. CPK levels should be 
monitored regularly during Alunbrig treatment. Based on the severity of the CPK elevation, and if 
associated with muscle pain or weakness, treatment with Alunbrig should be withheld, and the dose 
modified accordingly (see section 4.2). 
Elevations of pancreatic enzymes 
Elevations of amylase and lipase have occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). 
Lipase and amylase should be monitored regularly during treatment with Alunbrig. Based on the 
severity of the laboratory abnormalities, treatment with Alunbrig should be withheld, and the dose 
modified accordingly (see section 4.2). 
Hepatotoxicity 
Elevations of hepatic enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase) and bilirubin 
have occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). Liver function, including AST, ALT 
and total bilirubin should be assessed prior to the initiation of Alunbrig and then every 2 weeks during 
the first 3 months of treatment. Thereafter, monitoring should be performed periodically. Based on the 
severity of the laboratory abnormalities, treatment should be withheld, and the dose modified 
accordingly (see section 4.2). 
Hyperglycaemia 
Elevations of serum glucose have occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig. Fasting serum glucose 
should be assessed prior to initiation of Alunbrig and monitored periodically thereafter. 
Antihyperglycaemic treatment should be initiated or optimised as needed. If adequate hyperglycaemic 
control cannot be achieved with optimal medical management, Alunbrig should be withheld until 
adequate hyperglycaemic control is achieved; upon recovery reducing the dose as described in Table 1 
may be considered or Alunbrig may be permanently discontinued. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug-drug interactions 
The concomitant use of Alunbrig with strong CYP3A inhibitors should be avoided. If concomitant use 
of strong CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided, the dose of Alunbrig should be reduced from 180 mg 
to 90 mg, or from 90 mg to 60 mg. After discontinuation of a strong CYP3A inhibitor, Alunbrig 
should be resumed at the dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the strong CYP3A inhibitor. 
The concomitant use of Alunbrig with strong and moderate CYP3A inducers should be avoided (see 
section 4.5). If concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inducers cannot be avoided, the dose of Alunbrig 
may be increased in 30 mg increments after 7 days of treatment with the current Alunbrig dose as 
tolerated, up to a maximum of twice the Alunbrig dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the 
moderate CYP3A inducer. After discontinuation of a moderate CYP3A inducer, Alunbrig should be 
resumed at the dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the moderate CYP3A inducer. 
Photosensitivity and photodermatosis 
Photosensitivity to sunlight has occurred in patients treated with Alunbrig (see section 4.8). Patients 
should be advised to avoid prolonged sun exposure while taking Alunbrig, and for at least 5 days after 
discontinuation of treatment. When outdoors, patients should be advised to wear a hat and protective 
clothing, and to use a broad-spectrum Ultraviolet A (UVA)/ Ultraviolet B (UVB) sunscreen and lip 
balm (SPF ≥ 30) to help protect against potential sunburn. For severe photosensitivity reactions 
(≥ Grade 3), Alunbrig should be withheld until recovery to baseline. The dose should be modified 
accordingly (see section 4.2). 
Fertility 
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective non-hormonal contraception 
during treatment with Alunbrig and for at least 4 months following the final dose. Men with female 
partners of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
and for at least 3 months after the last dose of Alunbrig (see section 4.6). 
Lactose 
Alunbrig contains lactose monohydrate. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Agents that may increase brigatinib plasma concentrations 
CYP3A inhibitors 
In vitro studies demonstrated that brigatinib is a substrate of CYP3A4/5. In healthy subjects, 
coadministration of multiple 200 mg twice daily doses of itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with 
a single 90 mg brigatinib dose increased brigatinib Cmax by 21%, AUC0-INF by 101% (2-fold), and 
AUC0-120 by 82% (< 2-fold), relative to a 90 mg brigatinib dose administered alone. The concomitant 
use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with Alunbrig, including but not limited to certain antivirals (e.g., 
indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir), macrolide antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, telithromycin, 
troleandomycin), antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, voriconazole), and nefazodone should be avoided. If 
concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided, the dose of Alunbrig should be 
reduced by approximately 50% (i.e. from 180 mg to 90 mg, or from 90 mg to 60 mg). After 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinuation of a strong CYP3A inhibitor, Alunbrig should be resumed at the dose that was 
tolerated prior to the initiation of the strong CYP3A inhibitor. 
Moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem and verapamil) may increase the AUC of brigatinib by 
approximately 40% based on simulations from a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model. No 
dose adjustment is required for Alunbrig in combination with moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Patients 
should be closely monitored when Alunbrig is coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors. 
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice may also increase plasma concentrations of brigatinib and should be 
avoided (see section 4.2). 
CYP2C8 inhibitors 
In vitro studies demonstrated that brigatinib is a substrate of CYP2C8. In healthy subjects, 
coadministration of multiple 600 mg twice daily doses of gemfibrozil, a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, 
with a single 90 mg brigatinib dose reduced brigatinib Cmax by 41%, AUC0-INF by 12%, and AUC0-120 
by 15%, relative to a 90 mg brigatinib dose administered alone. The effect of gemfibrozil on the 
pharmacokinetics of brigatinib is not clinically meaningful and the underlying mechanism for the 
decreased exposure of brigatinib is unknown. No dose adjustment is required during coadministration 
with strong CYP2C8 inhibitors. 
P-gp and BCRP inhibitors 
Brigatinib is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in vitro. 
Given that brigatinib exhibits high solubility and high permeability, inhibition of P-gp and BCRP is 
not expected to result in a clinically meaningful change in the systemic exposure of brigatinib. No 
dose adjustment is required for Alunbrig during coadministration with P-gp and BCRP inhibitors. 
Agents that may decrease brigatinib plasma concentrations 
CYP3A inducers 
In healthy subjects, coadministration of multiple 600 mg daily doses of rifampicin, a strong CYP3A 
inducer, with a single 180 mg brigatinib dose decreased brigatinib Cmax by 60%, AUC0-INF by 80% 
(5-fold), and AUC0-120 by 80% (5-fold), relative to a 180 mg brigatinib dose administered alone. The 
concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with Alunbrig, including but not limited to rifampicin, 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, and St. John’s wort should be avoided.  
Moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50% based on 
simulations from a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model. The concomitant use of moderate 
CYP3A inducers with Alunbrig, including but not limited to efavirenz, modafinil, bosentan, etravirine, 
and nafcillin should be avoided. If concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inducers cannot be avoided, 
the dose of Alunbrig may be increased in 30 mg increments after 7 days of treatment with the current 
Alunbrig dose as tolerated, up to a maximum of twice the Alunbrig dose that was tolerated prior to the 
initiation of the moderate CYP3A inducer. After discontinuation of a moderate CYP3A inducer, 
Alunbrig should be resumed at the dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the moderate 
CYP3A inducer. 
Agents that may have their plasma concentrations altered by brigatinib 
CYP3A substrates 
In vitro studies in hepatocytes have shown that brigatinib is an inducer of CYP3A4. In patients with 
cancer, coadministration of multiple 180 mg daily doses of Alunbrig with a single 3 mg oral dose of 
midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate, decreased midazolam Cmax by 16%, AUC0-INF by 26%, and 
AUC0-last by 30%, relative to a 3 mg oral dose of midazolam administered alone. Brigatinib reduces 
plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYP3A. Therefore, coadministration of Alunbrig with CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic 
index (e.g., alfentanil, fentanyl, quinidine, cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus) should be avoided as 
their effectiveness may be reduced. 
Alunbrig may also induce other enzymes and transporters (e.g., CYP2C, P-gp) via the same 
mechanisms responsible for induction of CYP3A (e.g., pregnane X receptor activation). 
Transporter substrates 
Coadministration of brigatinib with substrates of P-gp (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran, colchicine, 
pravastatin), BCRP (e.g., methotrexate, rosuvastatin, sulfasalazine), organic cation transporter 
1 (OCT1), multidrug and toxin extrusion protein 1 (MATE1), and 2K (MATE2K) may increase their 
plasma concentrations. Patients should be closely monitored when Alunbrig is coadministered with 
substrates of these transporters with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran, 
methotrexate). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing age being treated with Alunbrig should be advised not to become pregnant and 
men being treated with Alunbrig should be advised not to father a child during treatment. Women of 
reproductive potential should be advised to use effective non-hormonal contraception during treatment 
with Alunbrig and for at least 4 months following the final dose. Men with female partners of 
reproductive potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment and for at 
least 3 months after the last dose of Alunbrig. 
Pregnancy 
Alunbrig may cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). There are no clinical data on the use of Alunbrig in 
pregnant women. Alunbrig should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the 
mother requires treatment. If Alunbrig is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant 
while taking this medicinal product, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Alunbrig is excreted in human milk. Available data cannot exclude potential 
excretion in human milk. Breast-feeding should be stopped during treatment with Alunbrig. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of Alunbrig on fertility are available. Based on repeat-dose toxicity 
studies in male animals, Alunbrig may cause reduced fertility in males (see section 5.3). The clinical 
relevance of these findings to human fertility is unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Alunbrig has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, caution should be 
exercised when driving or operating machines as patients may experience visual disturbance, 
dizziness, or fatigue while taking Alunbrig. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions (≥ 25%) reported in patients treated with Alunbrig at the 
recommended dosing regimen were increased AST, increased CPK, hyperglycaemia, increased lipase, 
hyperinsulinaemia, diarrhoea, increased ALT, increased amylase, anaemia, nausea, fatigue, 
hypophosphataemia, decreased lymphocyte count, cough, increased alkaline phosphatase, rash, 
increased APTT, myalgia, headache, hypertension, decreased white blood cell count, dyspnoea, and 
vomiting. 
The most common serious adverse reactions (≥ 2%) reported in patients treated with Alunbrig at the 
recommended dosing regimen other than events related to neoplasm progression were pneumonia, 
pneumonitis, dyspnoea and pyrexia.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
The data described below reflect exposure to Alunbrig at the recommended dosing regimen in three 
clinical trials: a Phase 3 trial (ALTA 1L) in patients with advanced ALK-positive NSCLC previously 
not treated with an ALK-inhibitor (N = 136), a Phase 2 trial (ALTA) in patients treated with Alunbrig 
with ALK-positive NSCLC who previously progressed on crizotinib (N = 110), and a phase 1/2 dose 
escalation/expansion trial in patients with advanced malignancies (N = 28). Across these studies, the 
median duration of exposure in patients receiving Alunbrig at the recommended dosing regimen was 
21.8 months. 
Adverse reactions reported are presented in Table 3 and are listed by system organ class, preferred 
term and frequency. Frequency categories are very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) and 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented 
in order of frequency. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported in patients treated with Alunbrig (per Common 
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03) at the 180 mg regimen 
(N = 274) 
System organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders  
Frequency 
category 
Very 
common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very 
common 
Common 
Adverse reactions†  
all grades 
Pneumoniaa,b 
Upper respiratory tract infection  
Anaemia 
Lymphocyte count decreased 
APTT increased 
White blood cell count decreased 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Decreased platelet count 
Adverse reactions 
Grade 3-4 
Pneumoniaa 
Lymphocyte count decreased 
APTT increased 
Anaemia 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Hyperglycaemia 
Hyperinsulinaemiac 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hypercalcaemia  
Hyponatraemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hyperglycaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Headached  
Peripheral neuropathye 
Dizziness 
Visual disturbancef 
Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Bradycardiag 
Hypertensioni 
Pneumonitisk 
Dyspnoeaj 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders  
Eye disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders  
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
 Common 
Insomnia 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Headached 
Peripheral neuropathye 
Dizziness 
Memory impairment 
Dysgeusia 
Visual disturbancef 
Bradycardiag 
Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Tachycardiah 
Palpitations 
Uncommon 
Very 
common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Hypertensioni 
Cough 
Dyspnoeaj 
Pneumonitisk 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ 
class 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders  
Frequency 
category 
Very 
common 
Common 
Adverse reactions†  
all grades 
Lipase increased 
Diarrhoea 
Amylase increased 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal painl 
Constipation 
Stomatitism 
Dry mouth 
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Uncommon  Pancreatitis 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Very 
common 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders  
Common 
Uncommon 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Very 
common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
AST increased 
ALT increased 
Alkaline phosphatase increased 
Blood lactate dehydrogenase 
increased 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Rashn 
Prurituso 
Dry skin 
Photosensitivity reactionp 
Blood CPK increased 
Myalgiaq 
Arthralgia 
Musculoskeletal chest pain  
Pain in extremity 
Musculoskeletal stiffness 
Blood creatinine increased 
Fatiguer 
Oedemas 
Pyrexia 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Chest discomfort 
Pain 
Adverse reactions 
Grade 3-4 
Lipase increased 
Amylase increased 
Nausea 
Abdominal painl 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Stomatitism 
Dyspepsia 
Pancreatitis 
ALT increased 
AST increased 
Alkaline phosphatase increased 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Rashn 
Photosensitivity reactionp 
Dry skin 
Prurituso 
Blood CPK increased  
Pain in extremity  
Musculoskeletal chest pain  
Myalgiaq 
Fatiguer 
Pyrexia 
Oedemas 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ 
class 
Investigations  
Frequency 
category 
Common 
Adverse reactions†  
all grades 
Blood cholesterol increasedt 
Weight decreased 
Adverse reactions 
Grade 3-4 
Uncommon 
Weight decreased 
† The frequencies for ADR terms associated with chemistry and haematology laboratory changes were determined based on 
the frequency of abnormal laboratory shifts from baseline. 
a Includes atypical pneumonia, pneumonia, pneumonia aspiration, pneumonia cryptococcal, lower respiratory tract infection, 
lower respiratory tract infection viral, lung infection 
b Includes Grade 5 events 
c Grade not applicable 
d Includes headache, sinus headache, head discomfort, migraine, tension headache 
e Includes paraesthesia, peripheral sensory neuropathy, dysaesthesia, hyperaesthesia, hypoaesthesia, neuralgia, neuropathy 
peripheral, neurotoxicity, peripheral motor neuropathy, polyneuropathy, burning sensation, post herpetic neuralgia 
f Includes altered visual depth perception, cataract, colour blindness acquired, diplopia, glaucoma, intraocular pressure 
increased, macular oedema, photophobia, photopsia, retinal oedema, vision blurred, visual acuity reduced, visual field defect, 
visual impairment, vitreous detachment, vitreous floaters, amaurosis fugax 
g Includes bradycardia, sinus bradycardia 
h Includes sinus tachycardia, tachycardia, atrial tachycardia, heart rate increased 
i Includes blood pressure increased, diastolic hypertension, hypertension, systolic hypertension 
j Includes dyspnoea, dyspnoea exertional  
k Includes interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis 
l Includes abdominal discomfort, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, abdominal pain upper, 
epigastric discomfort 
m Includes aphthous stomatitis, stomatitis, aphthous ulcer, mouth ulceration, oral mucosal blistering 
n Includes dermatitis acneiform, erythema, exfoliative rash, rash, rash erythematous, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash 
papular, rash pruritic, rash pustular, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, dermatitis contact, generalised erythema, rash follicular, 
urticaria, drug eruption, toxic skin eruption 
o Includes pruritus, pruritus allergic, pruritus generalised, pruritus genital, vulvovaginal pruritus 
p Includes photosensitivity reaction, polymorphic light eruption, solar dermatitis 
q Includes musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, muscle spasms, muscle tightness, muscle twitching, musculoskeletal discomfort 
r Includes asthenia, fatigue 
s Includes eyelid oedema, face oedema, oedema peripheral, periorbital oedema, swelling face, generalised oedema, peripheral 
swelling, angioedema, lip swelling, periorbital swelling, skin swelling, swelling of eyelid 
t Includes blood cholesterol increased, hypercholesterolemia 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Pulmonary adverse reactions 
In ALTA 1L, 2.9% of patients experienced any Grade ILD/pneumonitis early in treatment (within 
8 days), with Grade 3-4 ILD/pneumonitis in 2.2% of patients. There were no fatal ILD/pneumonitis. 
Additionally, 3.7% of patients experienced pneumonitis later in treatment. 
In ALTA, 6.4% of patients experienced pulmonary adverse reactions of any grade, including 
ILD/pneumonitis, pneumonia and dyspnoea, early in treatment (within 9 days, median onset: 2 days); 
2.7% of patients had Grade 3-4 pulmonary adverse reactions and 1 patient (0.5%) had fatal 
pneumonia. Following Grade 1-2 pulmonary adverse reactions, treatment with Alunbrig was either 
interrupted and then restarted or the dose was reduced. Early pulmonary adverse reactions also 
occurred in a dose escalation study in patients (N = 137) (Study 101) including three fatal cases 
(hypoxia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia). Additionally, 2.3% of patients in 
ALTA experienced pneumonitis later in treatment, with 2 patients having Grade 3 pneumonitis (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Elderly 
Early pulmonary adverse reaction was reported in 10.1% of patients ≥ 65 years of age compared with 
3.1% of patients < 65 years of age.  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypertension 
Hypertension was reported in 30% of patients treated with Alunbrig at the 180 mg regimen with 11% 
having Grade 3 hypertension. Dose reduction for hypertension occurred in 1.5% at the 180 mg 
regimen. Mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure, in all patients, increased over time (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Bradycardia 
Bradycardia was reported in 8.4% of patients treated with Alunbrig at the 180 mg regimen.  
Heart rates of less than 50 beats per minute (bpm) were reported in 8.4% of patients at the 180 mg 
regimen. (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Visual disturbance 
Visual disturbance adverse reactions were reported in 14% of patients treated with Alunbrig at the 
180 mg regimen. Of these, three Grade 3 adverse reactions (1.1%) including macular oedema and 
cataract were reported. 
Dose reduction for visual disturbance occurred in two patients (0.7%) at the 180 mg regimen (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Peripheral neuropathy 
Peripheral neuropathy adverse reactions were reported in 20% of patients treated at the 180 mg 
regimen. Thirty-three percent of patients had resolution of all peripheral neuropathy adverse reactions. 
The median duration of peripheral neuropathy adverse reactions was 6.6 months, with a maximum 
duration of 28.9 months. 
Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevation 
In ALTA 1L and ALTA, elevations of CPK were reported in 64% of patients treated with Alunbrig at 
the 180 mg regimen. The incidence of Grade 3-4 elevations of CPK was 18%. The median time to 
onset for CPK elevations was 28 days. 
Dose reduction for CPK elevation occurred in 10% of patients at the 180 mg regimen (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Elevations of pancreatic enzymes 
Elevations of amylase and lipase were reported in 47% and 54% of patients treated with Alunbrig, 
respectively at the 180 mg regimen. For elevations to Grade 3 and 4, the incidences for amylase and 
lipase were 7.7% and 15%, respectively. The median time to onset for amylase elevations and lipase 
elevations was 16 days and 29 days, respectively. 
Dose reduction for elevation of lipase and amylase occurred in 4.7% and 2.9% of patients, respectively 
at the 180 mg regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Elevation of hepatic enzymes 
Elevations of ALT and AST were reported in 49% and 68% of patients treated with Alunbrig, 
respectively at the 180 mg regimen. For elevations to Grade 3 and 4, the incidences for ALT and AST 
were 4.7% and 3.6%, respectively. 
Dose reduction for elevation of ALT and AST occurred in 0.7% and 1.1% of patients, respectively at 
the 180 mg regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hyperglycaemia 
Sixty one percent of patients experienced hyperglycaemia. Grade 3 hyperglycemia occurred in 6.6% of 
patients.  
No patients had dose reductions due to hyperglycaemia. 
Photosensitivity and photodermatosis 
A pooled analysis from seven clinical trials with data from 804 patients, treated with Alunbrig at 
different dosing regimens, showed that photosensitivity and photodermatosis was reported in 5.8% of 
patients and Grade 3-4 occurred in 0.7% of patients. Dose reduction occurred in 0.4% of patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with Alunbrig. In the event of an overdose, the patient 
should be monitored for adverse reactions (see section 4.8) and appropriate supportive care should be 
provided. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agent, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01ED04 
Mechanism of action 
Brigatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets ALK, c-ros oncogene 1 (ROS1), and insulin-like 
growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R). Brigatinib inhibited autophosphorylation of ALK and 
ALK-mediated phosphorylation of the downstream signalling protein STAT3 in in vitro and in vivo 
assays.  
Brigatinib inhibited the in vitro proliferation of cell lines expressing EML4-ALK and NPM-ALK 
fusion proteins and demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of EML4-ALK-positive NSCLC 
xenograft growth in mice. Brigatinib inhibited the in vitro and in vivo viability of cells expressing 
mutant forms of EML4-ALK associated with resistance to ALK inhibitors, including G1202R and 
L1196M. 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
In Study 101, the QT interval prolongation potential of Alunbrig was assessed in 123 patients with 
advanced malignancies following once daily brigatinib doses of 30 mg to 240 mg. The maximum 
mean QTcF (corrected QT by the Fridericia method) change from baseline was less than 10 msec. An 
exposure-QT analysis suggested no concentration-dependent QTc interval prolongation.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
ALTA 1L 
The safety and efficacy of Alunbrig was evaluated in a randomised (1:1), open-label, multicentre trial 
(ALTA 1L) in 275 adult patients with advanced ALK-positive NSCLC who had not previously 
received an ALK-targeted therapy. Eligibility criteria permitted enrolment of patients with a 
documented ALK rearrangement based on a local standard of care testing and an ECOG Performance 
status of 0-2. Patients were allowed to have up to 1 prior regimen of chemotherapy in the locally 
advanced or metastatic setting. Neurologically stable patients with treated or untreated central nervous 
system (CNS) metastases, including leptomeningeal metastases, were eligible. Patients with a history 
of pulmonary interstitial disease, drug-related pneumonitis, or radiation pneumonitis were excluded.  
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive Alunbrig 180 mg once daily with a 7-day lead-in at 
90 mg once daily (N = 137) or crizotinib 250 mg orally twice daily (N = 138). Randomisation was 
stratified by brain metastases (present, absent) and prior chemotherapy use for locally advanced or 
metastatic disease (yes, no). 
Patients in the crizotinib arm who experienced disease progression were offered crossover to receive 
treatment with Alunbrig. Among all 121 patients who were randomised to the crizotinib arm and 
discontinued study treatment by the time of the final analysis, 99 (82%) patients received subsequent 
ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Eighty (66%) patients who were randomised to the crizotinib 
arm received subsequent Alunbrig treatment, including 65 (54%) patients who crossed over in the 
study. 
The major outcome measure was progression-free survival (PFS) according to Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST v1.1) as evaluated by a Blinded Independent Review Committee 
(BIRC). Additional outcome measures as evaluated by the BIRC include confirmed objective response 
rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), time to response, disease control rate (DCR), intracranial 
ORR, intracranial PFS, and intracranial DOR. Investigator-assessed outcomes include PFS and overall 
survival. 
Baseline demographics and disease characteristics in ALTA 1L were median age 59 years old (range 
27 to 89; 32% 65 and over), 59% White and 39% Asian, 55% female, 39% ECOG PS 0, and 56% 
ECOG PS 1, 58% never smokers, 93% Stage IV disease, 96% adenocarcinoma histology, 30% CNS 
metastases at baseline, 14% prior radiotherapy to the brain, and 27% prior chemotherapy. Sites of 
extra-thoracic metastases include brain (30% of patients), bone (31% of patients), and liver (20% of 
patients). The median relative dose intensity was 97% for Alunbrig and 99% for crizotinib. 
At the primary analysis performed at a median follow-up duration of 11 months in the Alunbrig arm, 
the ALTA 1L study met its primary endpoint demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in 
PFS by BIRC. 
A protocol-specified interim analysis with cut-off date of 28 June 2019 was performed at a median 
follow-up duration of 24.9 months in the Alunbrig arm. The median PFS by BIRC in the ITT 
population was 24 months in the Alunbrig arm and 11 months in the crizotinib arm (HR = 0.49 [95% 
CI (0.35, 0.68)], p < 0.0001). 
The results from the protocol-specified final analysis with last patient last contact date of 29 January 
2021 performed at a median follow-up duration of 40.4 months in the Alunbrig arm are presented 
below. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy results in ALTA IL (ITT population)  
Efficacy parameters 
Median duration of follow-up (months)a 
Primary efficacy parameters 
PFS (BIRC)  
Number of patients with events, n (%) 
Progressive disease, n (%) 
Death, n (%) 
Median (in months) (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Log-rank p-valued 
Secondary efficacy parameters  
Confirmed objective response rate (BIRC) 
Responders, n (%)  
(95% CI) 
p-valued,e 
  Complete response, % 
Partial response, % 
Duration of confirmed response (BIRC) 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
Overall survivalf 
Number of events, n (%) 
Median (in months) (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Log-rank p-valued 
Overall survival at 36 months 
Alunbrig 
N = 137 
40.4 
(range: 0.0–52.4) 
Crizotinib 
N = 138 
15.2 
(range: 0.1–51.7) 
73 (53.3%) 
66 (48.2%)b 
7 (5.1%) 
24.0 (18.5, 43.2) 
93 (67.4%) 
88 (63.8%)c 
5 (3.6%) 
11.1 (9.1, 13.0) 
0.48 (0.35, 0.66) 
< 0.0001 
102 (74.5%) 
(66.3, 81.5)  
86 (62.3%) 
(53.7, 70.4)  
0.0330 
24.1% 
50.4% 
13.0% 
49.3% 
33.2 (22.1, NE) 
13.8 (10.4, 22.1) 
41 (29.9%) 
NE (NE, NE) 
51 (37.0%)  
NE (NE, NE)  
0.81 (0.53, 1.22)  
0.3311 
70.7% 
67.5% 
BIRC = Blinded Independent Review Committee; NE = Not Estimable; CI = Confidence Interval 
Results in this table are based on final efficacy analysis with last patient last contact date of 29 January 2021. 
a duration of follow up for the whole study 
b includes 3 patients with palliative radiotherapy to the brain 
c includes 9 patients with palliative radiotherapy to the brain 
d Stratified by presence of iCNS metastases at baseline and prior chemotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic disease for 
log-rank test and Cochran Mantel-Haenszel test, respectively  
e From a Cochran Mantel-Haenszel test 
f Patients in the crizotinib arm who experienced disease progression were offered crossover to receive treatment with Alunbrig. 
19 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier plot of progression-free survival by BIRC in ALTA 1L 
Results in this figure are based on final efficacy analysis with last patient last contact date of 29 January 2021. 
BIRC assessment of intracranial efficacy according to RECIST v1.1 in patients with any brain 
metastases and patients with measurable brain metastases (≥ 10 mm in longest diameter) at baseline 
are summarised in Table 5.  
20 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: BIRC-assessed intracranial efficacy in patients in ALTA 1L 
Patients with measurable brain metastases at 
baseline 
Efficacy parameters 
Confirmed intracranial objective response rate  
Responders, n (%)  
(95% CI) 
p-valuea,b 
Complete response % 
Partial response % 
Alunbrig  
N = 18 
14 (77.8%)  
(52.4, 93.6)  
27.8% 
50.0% 
Crizotinib 
N = 23 
6 (26.1%)  
(10.2, 48.4)  
0.0% 
26.1% 
0.0014 
Duration of confirmed intracranial responsec 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
27.9 (5.7, NE)  
9.2 (3.9, NE)  
Patients with any brain metastases at baseline 
Confirmed intracranial objective response rate  
Responders, n (%)  
(95% CI) 
p-valuea,b 
Complete response (%) 
Partial response (%) 
Duration of confirmed intracranial responsec 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
Intracranial PFSd  
Number of patients with events, n (%) 
Alunbrig  
N = 47 
31 (66.0%)  
(50.7, 79.1)  
44.7%  
21.3% 
Crizotinib 
N = 49 
7 (14.3%)  
(5.9, 27.2)  
2.0% 
12.2% 
< 0.0001 
27.1 (16.9, 42.8)  
9.2 (3.9, NE)  
35 (71.4%)  
32 (65.3%)f 
3 (6.1%) 
5.5 (3.7, 7.5)  
27 (57.4%)  
27 (57.4%)e 
0 (0.0%) 
24.0 (12.9, 30.8)  
Progressive disease, n (%) 
Death, n (%) 
Median (in months) (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Log-rank p-valuea 
CI = Confidence Interval; NE = Not Estimable 
Results in this table are based on final efficacy analysis with last patient last contact date of 29 January 2021. 
a Stratified by presence prior chemotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic disease for log-rank test and Cochran 
Mantel-Haenszel test, respectively  
bFrom a Cochran Mantel-Haenszel test 
c measured from date of first confirmed intracranial response until date of intracranial disease progression (new intracranial 
lesions, intracranial target lesion diameter growth ≥ 20% from nadir, or unequivocal progression of intracranial nontarget 
lesions) or death or censoring 
d measured from date of randomisation until date of intracranial disease progression (new intracranial lesions, intracranial 
target lesion diameter growth ≥ 20% from nadir, or unequivocal progression of intracranial nontarget lesions) or death or 
censoring. 
e includes 1 patient with palliative radiotherapy to the brain 
f includes 3 patients with palliative radiotherapy to the brain 
0.29 (0.17, 0.51)  
< 0.0001  
ALTA 
The safety and efficacy of Alunbrig was evaluated in a randomised (1:1), open-label, multicenter trial 
(ALTA) in 222 adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC who had 
progressed on crizotinib. Eligibility criteria permitted enrolment of patients with a documented ALK 
rearrangement based on a validated test, ECOG Performance Status of 0-2, and prior chemotherapy. 
Additionally, patients with central nervous system (CNS) metastases were included, provided they 
were neurologically stable and did not require an increasing dose of corticosteroids. Patients with a 
history of pulmonary interstitial disease or drug-related pneumonitis were excluded. 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive Alunbrig either 90 mg once daily (90 mg regimen, 
N = 112) or 180 mg once daily with 7-day lead-in at 90 mg once daily (180 mg regimen, N = 110). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median duration of follow-up was 22.9 months. Randomisation was stratified by brain metastases 
(present, absent) and best prior response to crizotinib therapy (complete or partial response, any other 
response/unknown).  
The major outcome measure was confirmed objective response rate (ORR) according to Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST v1.1) as evaluated by investigator. Additional outcome 
measures included confirmed ORR as evaluated by an Independent Review Committee (IRC); time to 
response; progression free survival (PFS); duration of response (DOR); overall survival; and 
intracranial ORR and intracranial DOR as evaluated by an IRC.  
Baseline demographics and disease characteristics in ALTA were median age 54 years old 
(range 18 to 82; 23% 65 and over), 67% White and 31% Asian, 57% female, 36% ECOG PS 0 and 
57% ECOG PS 1, 7% ECOG PS2, 60% never smoker, 35% former smoker, 5% current smoker, 
98% Stage IV, 97% adenocarcinoma, and 74% prior chemotherapy. The most common sites of 
extra-thoracic metastasis included 69% brain (of whom 62% had received prior radiation to the brain), 
39% bone, and 26% liver. 
Efficacy results from ALTA analysis are summarised in Table 6. and the Kaplan-Meier (KM) curve 
for investigator-assessed PFS is shown in Figure 2 
Table 6: Efficacy results in ALTA (ITT population) 
Efficacy parameter 
Investigator assessment 
180 mg 
90 mg 
regimen† 
regimen* 
N = 110 
N = 112 
IRC assessment 
90 mg 
regimen* 
N = 112 
180 mg 
regimen† 
N = 110 
56% 
(47, 66) 
1.9 
15.7 
(12.8, 21.8) 
16.7 
(11.6, 21.4) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.8 
1.9 
1.8 
46% 
(35, 57) 
56% 
(45, 67) 
51% 
(41, 61) 
12.0 
(9.2,17.7) 
Objective response rate 
(%)  
CI‡ 
Time to response 
Median (months) 
Duration of response 
Median (months) 
95% CI 
Progression-free survival 
Median (months) 
95% CI 
Overall survival 
Median (months) 
95% CI 
12-month survival 
probability (%) 
CI = Confidence Interval; NE = Not Estimable; NA = Not Applicable 
*90 mg once daily regimen 
†180 mg once daily with 7-day lead-in at 90 mg once daily  
‡Confidence Interval for investigator assessed ORR is 97.5% and for IRC assessed ORR is 95% 
34.1 
(27.7, NE) 
80.1% 
29.5 
(18.2, NE) 
70.3% 
13.8 
(10.2,19.3) 
9.2 
(7.4, 11.1) 
15.6 
(11.1, 21) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
16.4 
(7.4, 24.9) 
9.2 
(7.4, 12.8) 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Investigator-assessed systemic progression-free survival: ITT population by treatment 
arm (ALTA) 
Abbreviations: ITT = Intent-to-treat 
Note: Progression-Free survival was defined as time from initiation of treatment until the date at which disease progression 
was first evident or death, whichever comes first. 
*90 mg once daily regimen 
†180 mg once daily with 7-day lead-in at 90 mg once daily  
IRC assessments of intracranial ORR and duration of intracranial response in patients from ALTA 
with measurable brain metastases (≥ 10 mm in longest diameter) at baseline are summarised in 
Table 7.  
Table 7 Intracranial efficacy in patients with measurable brain metastases at baseline in ALTA 
IRC-assessed efficacy parameter 
Patients with measurable  
brain metastases at baseline 
90 mg regimen* 
(N = 26) 
180 mg regimen† 
(N = 18) 
50% 
(30, 70) 
67% 
(41, 87) 
Intracranial objective response rate  
(%) 
95% CI 
Intracranial disease control rate  
(%) 
95% CI 
Duration of intracranial response‡, 
Median (months)  
95% CI 
% CI = Confidence Interval; NE = Not Estimable 
*90 mg once daily regimen 
†180 mg once daily with 7-day lead-in at 90 mg once daily  
‡Events include intracranial disease progression (new lesions, intracranial target lesion diameter growth ≥ 20% from nadir, or 
unequivocal progression of intracranial non-target lesions) or death. 
9.4 
(3.7, 24.9) 
16.6 
(3.7, NE) 
85% 
(65, 96) 
83% 
(59, 96) 
In patients with any brain metastases at baseline, intracranial disease control rate was 77.8% 
(95% CI 67.2-86.3) in the 90 mg arm (N = 81) and 85.1% (95% CI 75-92.3) in the 180 mg 
arm (N = 74).  
Study 101 
In a separate dose finding study, 25 patients with ALK-positive NSCLC that progressed on crizotinib 
were administered Alunbrig at 180 mg once daily with 7-day lead-in at 90 mg once daily regimen. Of 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these, 19 patients had an investigator-assessed confirmed objective response (76%; 95% CI: 55, 91) 
and the KM estimate median duration of response among the 19 responders was 26.1 months 
(95% CI: 7.9, 26.1). The KM median PFS was 16.3 months (95% CI: 9.2, NE) and the 12-month 
probability of overall survival was 84.0% (95% CI: 62.8, 93.7). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Alunbrig in all subsets of the paediatric population in lung carcinoma (small cell and non-small cell 
carcinoma) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
In Study 101, following administration of a single oral dose of brigatinib (30-240 mg) in patients, the 
median time to peak concentration (Tmax) was 1-4 hours postdose. After a single dose and at steady 
state, systemic exposure was dose proportional over the dose range of 60-240 mg once daily. Modest 
accumulation was observed upon repeated dosing (geometric mean accumulation ratio: 1.9 to 2.4). 
The geometric mean steady state Cmax of brigatinib at doses of 90 mg and 180 mg once daily was 
552 and 1,452 ng/mL, respectively, and the corresponding AUC0-τ was 8,165 and 20,276 h∙ng/mL, 
respectively. Brigatinib is a substrate of the transporter proteins P-gp and BCRP. 
In healthy subjects, compared to overnight fasting, a high fat meal reduced brigatinib Cmax by 13% 
with no effect on AUC. Brigatinib can be administered with or without food.  
Distribution 
Brigatinib was moderately bound (91%) to human plasma proteins and binding was not 
concentration-dependent. The blood-to-plasma concentration ratio is 0.69. In patients given brigatinib 
180 mg once daily, the geometric mean apparent volume of distribution (Vz/F) of brigatinib at steady 
state was 307 L, indicating moderate distribution into tissues. 
Biotransformation 
In vitro studies demonstrated that brigatinib is primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4, and to 
a much lesser extent by CYP3A5. 
Following oral administration of a single 180 mg dose of [14C]brigatinib to healthy subjects, 
N-demethylation and cysteine conjugation were the two major metabolic clearance pathways. In urine 
and faeces combined, 48%, 27%, and 9.1% of the radioactive dose was excreted as unchanged 
brigatinib, N-desmethyl brigatinib (AP26123), and brigatinib cysteine conjugate, respectively. 
Unchanged brigatinib was the major circulating radioactive component (92%) along with AP26123 
(3.5%), the primary metabolite also observed in vitro. In patients, at steady state, the plasma AUC of 
AP26123 was < 10% of brigatinib exposure. In in vitro kinase and cellular assays, the metabolite, 
AP26123, inhibited ALK with approximately 3-fold lower potency than brigatinib. 
Elimination 
In patients given brigatinib 180 mg once daily, the geometric mean apparent oral clearance (CL/F) of 
brigatinib at steady state was 8.9 L/h and the median plasma elimination half-life was 24 h. 
The primary route of excretion of brigatinib is in faeces. In six healthy male subjects given a single 
180 mg oral dose of [14C]brigatinib, 65% of the administered dose was recovered in faeces and 25% of 
the administered dose was recovered in urine. Unchanged brigatinib represented 41% and 86% of the 
total radioactivity in faeces and urine, respectively, the remainder being metabolites. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific populations 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of brigatinib was characterised in healthy subjects with normal hepatic function 
(N = 9), and patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, N = 6), moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh class B, N = 6), or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C, N = 6). 
The pharmacokinetics of brigatinib was similar between healthy subjects with normal hepatic function 
and patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment. 
Unbound AUC0-INF was 37% higher in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) as 
compared to healthy subjects with normal hepatic function (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of brigatinib is similar in patients with normal renal function and in patients 
with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥ 30 mL/min) based on the results of population 
pharmacokinetic analyses. In a pharmacokinetic study, unbound AUC0-INF was 94% higher in patients 
with severe renal impairment (eGFR < 30 mL/min, N = 6) as compared to patients with normal renal 
function (eGFR ≥ 90 mL/min, N = 8) (see section 4.2). 
Race and gender 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses showed that race and gender had no impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of brigatinib.  
Age, body weight, and albumin concentrations 
The population pharmacokinetic analyses showed that body weight, age, and albumin concentration 
had no clinically relevant impact on the pharmacokinetics of brigatinib. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology studies with brigatinib identified potential for pulmonary effects (altered 
respiration rate; 1-2 times the human Cmax), cardiovascular effects (altered heart rate and blood 
pressure; at 0.5 times the human Cmax), and renal effects (reduced renal function; at 1-2.5 times the 
human Cmax), but did not indicate any potential for QT prolongation or neurofunctional effects. 
Adverse reactions seen in animals at exposure levels similar to clinical exposure levels with possible 
relevance to clinical use were as follows: gastrointestinal system, bone marrow, eyes, testes, liver, 
kidney, bone, and heart. These effects were generally reversible during the non-dosing recovery 
period; however, effects in the eyes and testes were notable exceptions due to lack of recovery. 
In repeated dose toxicity studies, lung changes (foamy alveolar macrophages) were noted in monkeys 
at ≥ 0.2 times the human AUC; however, these were minimal and similar to those reported as 
background findings in naive monkeys, and there was no clinical evidence of respiratory distress in 
these monkeys. 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with brigatinib.  
Brigatinib was not mutagenic in vitro in the bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) or the mammalian cell 
chromosomal aberration assays, but slightly increased the number of micronuclei in a rat bone marrow 
micronucleus test. The mechanism of micronucleus induction was abnormal chromosome segregation 
(aneugenicity) and not a clastogenic effect on chromosomes. This effect was observed at 
approximately five fold the human exposure at the 180 mg once daily dose.  
Brigatinib may impair male fertility. Testicular toxicity was observed in repeat-dose animal studies. In 
rats, findings included lower weight of testes, seminal vesicles and prostate gland, and testicular 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tubular degeneration; these effects were not reversible during the recovery period. In monkeys, 
findings included reduced size of testes along with microscopic evidence of hypospermatogenesis; 
these effects were reversible during the recovery period. Overall, these effects on the male 
reproductive organs in rats and monkeys occurred at exposures ≥ 0.2-times the AUC observed in 
patients at the 180 mg once daily dose. No apparent adverse effects on female reproductive organs 
were observed in general toxicology studies in rats and monkeys.  
In an embryo-foetal development study in which pregnant rats were administered daily doses of 
brigatinib during organogenesis; dose-related skeletal anomalies were observed at doses as low as 
approximately 0.7-times the human exposure by AUC at the 180 mg once daily dose. Findings 
included embryo-lethality, reduced foetal growth, and skeletal variations.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Sodium starch glycolate (type A) 
Silica colloidal hydrophobic 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coating 
Talc 
Macrogol 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Titanium dioxide 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
Round wide mouth high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with two-piece polypropylene child 
resistant screw cap closures with foil induction seal liner, containing either 60 or 120 film-coated 
tablets, together with one HDPE canister containing a molecular sieve desiccant. 
Clear thermoformable poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene (PCTFE) blister with heat sealable 
paper-laminated foil lidding in a carton, containing either 28, 56 or 112 film-coated tablets. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
Round wide mouth high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with two-piece polypropylene child 
resistant screw cap with foil induction seal liner closures, containing either 7 or 30 film-coated tablets, 
together with one HDPE canister containing a molecular sieve desiccant. 
Clear thermoformable poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene (PCTFE) blister with heat sealable 
paper-laminated foil lidding in a carton, containing either 7 or 28 film-coated tablets. 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
Round wide mouth high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with two-piece polypropylene child 
resistant screw cap with foil induction seal liner closures, containing 30 film-coated tablets, together 
with one HDPE canister containing a molecular sieve desiccant. 
Clear thermoformable poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene (PCTFE) blister with heat sealable 
paper-laminated foil lidding in a carton, containing 28 film-coated tablets. 
Treatment initiation pack Alunbrig 90 mg and 180 mg film-coated tablets 
Each pack consists of an outer carton with two inner cartons containing: 
• 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
1 clear thermoformable poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene (PCTFE) blister with heat sealable 
paper-laminated foil lidding in a carton, containing 7 film-coated tablets. 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
3 clear thermoformable poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene (PCTFE) blisters with heat sealable 
paper-laminated foil lidding in a carton, containing 21 film-coated tablets. 
• 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Patients should be advised to keep the desiccant canister in the bottle and not to swallow it. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/18/1264/001 
EU/1/18/1264/002 
EU/1/18/1264/011 
EU/1/18/1264/003 
EU/1/18/1264/004 
60 tablets in bottle 
120 tablets in bottle 
28 tablets in carton 
56 tablets in carton 
112 tablets in carton 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/18/1264/005 
EU/1/18/1264/006 
EU/1/18/1264/007 
EU/1/18/1264/008 
7 tablets in bottle 
30 tablets in bottle 
7 tablets in carton 
28 tablets in carton 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/18/1264/009 
EU/1/18/1264/010 
30 tablets in bottle 
28 tablets in carton 
Alunbrig treatment initiation pack 
EU/1/18/1264/012 
7 x 90 mg + 21 x 180 mg tablets in carton 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 November 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter-Strasse 25 
4020 Linz  
Austria 
Takeda Ireland Limited 
Bray Business Park 
Kilruddery  
Co. Wicklow  
A98 CD36 
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Alunbrig in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Alunbrig is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use Alunbrig have access to/are 
provided with the following educational package: 
• 
A patient alert card 
The patient alert card shall contain the following key messages:  
o 
o 
o 
o 
A warning message for health care professionals treating the patient at any time, 
including in conditions of emergency, that the patient is using Alunbrig 
That Alunbrig treatment may increase the risk of early onset pulmonary events (including 
interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis) 
Signs or symptoms of the safety concern and when to seek attention from a HCP 
Contact details of the Alunbrig prescriber 
31 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 30 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Outer carton: 
Do not swallow the desiccant canister found in the bottle. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/001 
EU/1/18/1264/002 
60 tablets 
120 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer Carton: 
Alunbrig 30 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Outer Carton: 
PC 
SN 
NN 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 30 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
112 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/011 
EU/1/18/1264/003 
EU/1/18/1264/004 
28 tablets 
56 tablets 
112 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Alunbrig 30 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 90 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
7 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Outer carton: 
Do not swallow the desiccant canister found in the bottle. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/005 
EU/1/18/1264/006 
7 tablets 
30 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer Carton: 
Alunbrig 90 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Outer Carton 
PC 
SN 
NN 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 90 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
7 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/007 
EU/1/18/1264/008 
7 tablets 
28 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Alunbrig 90 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR TREATMENT INITIATION PACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 90 mg film-coated tablet contains 90 mg brigatinib. 
Each 180 mg film-coated tablet contains 180 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
Treatment initiation pack 
Each pack contains two cartons in an outer carton. 
7 film-coated tablets of Alunbrig 90 mg 
21 film-coated tablets of Alunbrig 180 mg 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Take only one tablet per day. 
Alunbrig 90 mg once daily for the first 7 days, then Alunbrig 180 mg once daily. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/012 
7 x 90 mg + 21 x 180 mg tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Alunbrig 90 mg, 180 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON FOR TREATMENT INITIATION PACK – 7 TABLETS, 90 MG – 7 DAY 
TREATMENT (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 90 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
Treatment initiation pack 
Each pack contains 7 film-coated tablets of Alunbrig 90 mg 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Take only one tablet per day. 
Day 1 to Day 7 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/012 
7 x 90 mg + 21 x 180 mg tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Alunbrig 90 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
BLISTER – TREATMENT INITIATION PACK – 90 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON FOR TREATMENT INITIATION PACK – 21 TABLETS, 180 MG – 
21 DAY TREATMENT (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 180 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
Treatment initiation pack 
Each pack contains 21 film-coated tablets of Alunbrig 180 mg 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
Take only one tablet per day. 
Day 8 to Day 28 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/012 
7 x 90 mg + 21 x 180 mg tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Alunbrig 180 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER – TREATMENT INITIATION PACK – 180 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 180 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Outer carton: 
Do not swallow the desiccant canister found in the bottle. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/009 
30 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer Carton: 
Alunbrig 180 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Outer Carton 
PC 
SN 
NN 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 180 mg brigatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1264/010 
28 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Alunbrig 180 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Alunbrig 30 mg film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
brigatinib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Alunbrig is and what it is used for  
What you need to know before you take Alunbrig  
How to take Alunbrig  
Possible side effects  
How to store Alunbrig  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Alunbrig is and what it is used for 
Alunbrig contains the active substance brigatinib, a type of cancer medicine called a kinase inhibitor. 
Alunbrig is used to treat adults with advanced stages of a lung cancer called non-small cell lung 
cancer. It is given to patients whose lung cancer is related to an abnormal form of a gene called 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK). 
How Alunbrig works 
The abnormal gene produces a protein known as a kinase that stimulates the growth of the cancer 
cells. Alunbrig blocks the action of this protein and thus slows down the growth and spread of the 
cancer. 
2. 
What you need to know before you take Alunbrig  
Do not take Alunbrig 
• 
if you are allergic to brigatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Alunbrig or during treatment if you have: 
• 
lung or breathing problems 
Lung problems, some severe, are more frequent within the first 7 days of treatment. Symptoms 
may be similar to symptoms from lung cancer. Tell your doctor of any new or worsening 
symptoms including breathing discomfort, shortness of breath, chest pain, cough and fever. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood pressure 
a slow heartbeat (bradycardia) 
vision disturbance 
Inform your doctor of any visual disturbance that occurs during treatment, such as seeing 
flashes of light, blurry vision or light hurting your eyes. 
muscle problems 
Report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness to your doctor. 
pancreas problems 
Tell your doctor if you have upper abdominal pain, including abdominal pain that gets worse 
with eating and may spread to the back, weight loss or nausea.  
liver problems 
Tell your doctor if you have pain on the right side of your stomach area, yellowing of your skin 
or the whites of your eyes, or dark urine. 
high blood sugar 
sensitivity to sunlight 
Limit your time in the sun during treatment and for at least 5 days after your last dose. When 
you are in the sun, wear a hat, protective clothing, a broad-spectrum Ultraviolet A (UVA)/ 
Ultraviolet B (UVB) sunscreen and lip balm with a Sun Protection Factor (SPF) of 30 or 
greater. These will help to protect against potential sunburn. 
Tell your doctor if you have kidney problems or you are on dialysis. Symptoms of kidney problems 
may include, nausea, changes in volume or frequency of urination, abnormal blood tests (see section 
4). 
Your doctor may need to adjust your treatment or stop Alunbrig temporarily or permanently. See also 
the beginning of section 4. 
Children and adolescents 
Alunbrig has not been studied in children or adolescents. Treatment with Alunbrig is not 
recommended in persons under 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Alunbrig 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
The following medicines can affect or be affected by Alunbrig: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole: medicines to treat fungal infections 
indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir: medicines to treat HIV infection 
clarithromycin, telithromycin, troleandomycin: medicines to treat bacterial infections 
nefazodone: a medicine to treat depression 
St. John’s wort: a herbal product used to treat depression 
carbamazepine: a medicine to treat epilepsy, euphoric/depressive episodes and certain pain 
conditions 
phenobarbital, phenytoin: medicines to treat epilepsy 
rifabutin, rifampicin: medicines to treat tuberculosis or certain other infections 
digoxin: a medicine to treat heart problems 
dabigatran: a medicine to inhibit blood clotting 
colchicine: a medicine to treat gout attacks 
pravastatin, rosuvastatin: medicines to lower elevated cholesterol levels 
methotrexate: a medicine to treat severe joint inflammation, cancer and the skin disease 
psoriasis 
sulfasalazine: a medicine to treat severe bowel and rheumatic joint inflammation 
efavirenz, etravirine: medicines to treat HIV infection  
modafinil: a medicine to treat narcolepsy 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
bosentan: a medicine to treat pulmonary hypertension 
nafcillin: a medicine to treat bacterial infections 
alfentanil, fentanyl: medicines to treat pain 
quinidine: a medicine to treat irregular heart rhythm 
cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus: medicines to suppress the immune system 
Alunbrig with food and drink 
Avoid any grapefruit products during treatment as they may change the amount of brigatinib in your 
body. 
Pregnancy 
Alunbrig is not recommended during pregnancy unless the benefit outweighs the risk to the baby. If 
you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, talk to your doctor to 
discuss the risks of taking Alunbrig during pregnancy. 
Women of childbearing age being treated with Alunbrig should avoid becoming pregnant. Effective 
non-hormonal contraception must be used during treatment and for 4 months after stopping Alunbrig. 
Ask your doctor about the birth control methods that may be right for you.  
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with Alunbrig. It is unknown if brigatinib passes into breast milk 
and could potentially harm the baby. 
Fertility 
Men receiving treatment with Alunbrig are advised not to father a child during treatment and to use 
effective contraception during treatment and for 3 months after stopping treatment. 
Driving and using machines 
Alunbrig may cause visual disturbances, dizziness or tiredness. Do not drive or use machines during 
treatment if such signs occur. 
Alunbrig contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
Alunbrig contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Alunbrig 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is 
One 90 mg tablet once daily for the first 7 treatment days; thereafter, one 180 mg tablet once daily. 
Do not change the dose without talking to your doctor. Your doctor may adjust your dose according to 
your needs and this may require use of a 30 mg tablet to achieve the new recommended dose. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment initiation pack 
At the beginning of your treatment with Alunbrig your doctor may prescribe a treatment initiation 
pack. To help you start treatment each treatment initiation pack consists of an outer pack with two 
inner packs containing 
• 
• 
The required dose is printed on the treatment initiation pack. 
7 Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
21 Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
Method of use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Take Alunbrig once daily at the same time each day. 
Swallow the tablets whole, with a glass of water. Do not crush or dissolve the tablets. 
The tablets can be taken with or without food. 
If you vomit after taking Alunbrig, do not take any more tablets until your next scheduled dose. 
Do not swallow the desiccant canister contained in the bottle. 
If you take more Alunbrig than you should 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist right away if you have taken more tablets than recommended. 
If you forget to take Alunbrig 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Take your next dose at your regular time. 
If you stop taking Alunbrig 
Do not stop taking Alunbrig before talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist immediately if you have any of the following serious side effects: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood pressure 
Tell your doctor if you get headaches, dizziness, blurred vision, chest pain or shortness of 
breath. 
vision problems 
Tell your doctor if you experience any visual disturbances, such as seeing flashes of light, blurry 
vision or light hurting eyes. Your doctor may stop Alunbrig treatment and refer you to an 
ophthalmologist. 
increased blood level of creatine phosphokinase in tests – may indicate muscle damage, such 
as of the heart. Tell your doctor if you have any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or 
weakness. 
increased blood levels of amylase or lipase in tests – may indicate inflammation of the 
pancreas 
Tell your doctor if you have upper abdominal pain, including abdominal pain that gets worse 
with eating and may spread to the back, weight loss or nausea.  
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
increased blood levels of liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine 
aminotransferase) in tests -may indicate liver cell damage. Tell your doctor if you have pain 
on the right side of your stomach area, yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, or 
dark urine. 
increased blood sugar 
Tell your doctor if you are feeling very thirsty, need to urinate more than usual, feeling very 
hungry, sick to your stomach, weak or tired, or confused. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
lung inflammation 
Tell your doctor if you have any new or worsening lung or breathing problems, including chest 
pain, cough, and fever, especially within the first week of taking Alunbrig, as they may be a sign 
of serious lung problems. 
slow heartbeat 
Tell your doctor if you have chest pain or discomfort, changes in heartbeat, dizziness, 
light-headedness or fainting. 
sensitivity to sunlight 
Tell your doctor if you develop any skin reaction. 
See also section 2, “Warnings and precautions”. 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
inflammation of pancreas which may cause severe and persistent stomach pain, with or without 
nausea and vomiting (pancreatitis) 
Other possible side effects are: 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of the following side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
lung infection (pneumonia) 
cold-like symptoms (upper respiratory tract infection) 
reduced number of red blood cells (anaemia), in blood tests 
reduced number of white blood cells, called neutrophils and lymphocytes, in blood tests 
increased blood clotting time shown by test of activated partial thromboplastin time 
blood tests may show increased blood level of; 
- insulin 
- calcium 
blood tests may show reduced blood level of; 
-  phosphorus 
-  magnesium 
-  sodium 
-  potassium 
decreased appetite 
headache 
symptoms such as numbness, tingling, prickling sensation, weakness or pain in hands or feet 
(peripheral neuropathy) 
dizziness 
cough 
shortness of breath 
diarrhoea 
nausea 
vomiting 
abdominal (belly) pain 
constipation 
inflammation of the mouth and lips (stomatitis) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
62 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increased level of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase in blood tests– may indicate organ 
malfunction or injury 
rash 
skin itching 
joint or muscle pain (including muscle spasms) 
increased  level of creatinine in blood tests– may indicate reduced kidney function 
fatigue 
tissue swelling caused by excess fluid 
fever 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low platelet counts in blood tests, which may increase the risk of bleeding and bruising 
difficulty sleeping (insomnia) 
memory impairment 
change in sense of taste 
abnormal electrical activity of the heart (prolonged electrocardiogram QT interval) 
rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) 
palpitations 
dry mouth 
indigestion 
flatulence 
increased level of lactate dehydrogenase in blood tests – may indicate tissue breakdown 
increased level of bilirubin in blood tests 
dry skin 
musculoskeletal chest pain 
pain in arms and legs 
muscle and joint stiffness 
chest pain and discomfort 
pain 
increased level of cholesterol in blood tests 
weight loss 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Alunbrig 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on either the bottle label or blister and 
carton after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via waste water or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Alunbrig contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is brigatinib. 
Each 30 mg film-coated tablet contains 30 mg brigatinib. 
Each 90 mg film-coated tablet contains 90 mg brigatinib. 
Each 180 mg film-coated tablet contains 180 mg brigatinib. 
The other excipients are lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, sodium starch 
glycolate (type A), silica colloidal hydrophobic, magnesium stearate, talc, macrogol, polyvinyl 
alcohol, and titanium dioxide (see also section 2 ‘Alunbrig contains lactose’ and ‘Alunbrig 
contains sodium’). 
What Alunbrig looks like and contents of the pack 
Alunbrig film-coated tablets are white to off-white, oval (90 mg and 180 mg) or round (30 mg). They 
are convex on the upper and lower side. 
Alunbrig 30 mg:  
• 
• 
Each 30 mg tablet contains 30 mg brigatinib.  
The film-coated tablets are approximately 7 mm in diameter with “U3” on one side and plain on 
the other side. 
Alunbrig 90 mg:  
• 
• 
Each 90 mg tablet contains 90 mg brigatinib. 
The film-coated tablets are approximately 15 mm long with “U7” on one side and plain on the 
other side. 
Alunbrig 180 mg:  
• 
• 
Each 180 mg tablet contains 180 mg brigatinib. 
The film-coated tablets are approximately 19 mm long with “U13” on one side and plain on the 
other side. 
Alunbrig is available in plastic foil strips (blisters) packed in a carton with: 
• 
• 
• 
Alunbrig 30 mg: 28, 56 or 112 film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 90 mg: 7 or 28 film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 180 mg: 28 film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig is available in plastic bottles with child resistant screw top closures. Each bottle contains one 
canister of a desiccant and is packed in a carton with: 
• 
Alunbrig 30 mg: 60 or 120 film-coated tablets 
• 
Alunbrig 90 mg: 7 or 30 film-coated tablets 
• 
Alunbrig 180 mg: 30 film-coated tablets 
Keep the desiccant canister in the bottle.  
Alunbrig is available as a treatment initiation pack. Each pack consists of an outer carton with two 
inner cartons containing: 
• 
Alunbrig 90 mg film-coated tablets 
1 plastic foil strip (blister), containing 7 film-coated tablets 
Alunbrig 180 mg film-coated tablets 
3 plastic foil strips (blisters), containing 21 film-coated tablets 
• 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter-Strasse 25 
4020 Linz  
Austria 
Takeda Ireland Limited 
Bray Business Park 
Kilruddery  
Co. Wicklow  
A98 CD36 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
България 
Такеда България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Lietuva 
Takeda, UAB 
Tel: +370 521 09 070 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Česká republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 722 722 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Magyarország 
Takeda Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 270 7030 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Danmark 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Deutschland 
Takeda GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)800 825 3325 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Malta 
Drugsales Ltd  
Tel: +356 21419070  
safety@drugsalesltd.com 
Nederland 
Takeda Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 203 5492 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
Takeda Pharma AS 
Tel: +372 6177 669 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ελλάδα 
Τakeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Tηλ: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
España 
Takeda Farmacéutica España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 917 90 42 22 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
France 
Takeda France SAS 
Tél: + 33 1 40 67 33 00 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Norge 
Takeda AS 
Tlf: +47 800 800 30 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Österreich 
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel: +43 (0) 800-20 80 50  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Polska 
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48223062447 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Portugal 
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 120 1457 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Hrvatska 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
România 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL 
Tel: +40 21 335 03 91 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ireland 
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd 
Tel: 1800 937 970 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Italia 
Takeda Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 06 502601 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Κύπρος 
A.POTAMITIS MEDICARE LTD 
Τηλ: +357 22583333 
a.potamitismedicare@cytanet.com.cy 
Slovenija 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 (0) 59 082 480 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenská republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 (2) 20 602 600 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Takeda Oy 
Puh/Tel: 0800 774 051 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Sverige 
Takeda Pharma AB 
Tel: 020 795 079 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Latvija 
Takeda Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 67840082 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Takeda UK Ltd 
Tel: +44 (0) 3333 000 181 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
