PART VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Alymsys 
(bevacizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Alymsys. The RMP details important risks 
of  Alymsys, how these  risks can be minimised,  and how more  information will be obtained about 
Alymsys’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Alymsys’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Alymsys should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Alymsys should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Alymsys’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Alymsys is authorised for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, metastatic breast cancer, 
advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer, advanced and/or metastatic renal cell 
cancer, and cervical cancer (see SmPC for the full indication). 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Alymsys’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Alymsys’s  EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/alymsys  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Alymsys, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Alymsys’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
−  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
− 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
−  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
−  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied to  the  patient  (e.g.  with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Alymsys is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Alymsys  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Alymsys. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term 
use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks
Since there are no safety concerns identified in summary of safety concerns, no summary of 
routine risk minimization measures is applicable. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Alymsys. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no studies required for Alymsys. 
