EMA/64590/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005286 
Alymsys (bevacizumab) 
An overview of Alymsys and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Alymsys and what is it used for? 
Alymsys is a cancer medicine that is used to treat adults with the following cancers: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cancer of the colon (large bowel) or the rectum, when it has spread to other parts of the body; 
breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body; 
a type of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer when it is advanced or has spread or come 
back, and cannot be treated with surgery. Alymsys can be used in non-small cell lung cancer 
unless the cancer originates in cells called squamous cells; 
cancer of the kidney (renal cell carcinoma) that is advanced or has spread elsewhere; 
cancer of the ovary or associated structures (the fallopian tube that carries the egg from the ovary 
to the womb, and the peritoneum, the membrane that lines the abdomen) that is advanced or has 
come back after treatment; 
• 
cancer of the cervix (the neck of the womb) that has persisted or come back after treatment, or 
has spread to other parts of the body. 
Alymsys is used in combination with other cancer medicines, depending on the nature of any previous 
treatments or the presence of mutations (genetic changes) in the cancer that affect how well particular 
medicines work. 
Alymsys is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Alymsys is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Alymsys is Avastin. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Alymsys contains the active substance bevacizumab. 
How is Alymsys used? 
Alymsys can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who 
has experience in the use of cancer medicines. 
Alymsys is given by infusion (drip) into a vein. The first infusion of Alymsys should last 90 minutes, but 
subsequent infusions may be given more quickly if the earlier infusion has not caused unacceptable 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
side effects. The dose depends on the patient’s weight, the type of cancer being treated and the other 
cancer medicines being used. Treatment is continued for as long as the patient benefits from it. The 
doctor may interrupt or stop treatment if the patient develops certain side effects. 
For more information about using Alymsys, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Alymsys work? 
The active substance in Alymsys, bevacizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to attach to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a protein that circulates in the 
blood and makes new blood vessels grow. By attaching to VEGF, Alymsys stops its effect. As a result, 
the cancer cannot develop its own blood supply and cancer cells are starved of oxygen and nutrients, 
helping to slow down the growth of tumours. 
What benefits of Alymsys have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Alymsys with Avastin have shown that the active substance in Alymsys 
is highly similar to that in Avastin in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Alymsys produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving 
Avastin. 
In addition, a study involving 627 patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer showed that 
Alymsys was as effective as Avastin when given with the cancer medicines paclitaxel and carboplatin. 
The cancer responded to treatment in 40% of those given Alymsys and 45% of those given Avastin, 
which was considered comparable. 
Because Alymsys is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of bevacizumab 
carried out with Avastin do not all need to be repeated for Alymsys. 
What are the risks associated with Alymsys? 
The safety of Alymsys has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Avastin. 
The most common side effects with bevacizumab (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
hypertension (high blood pressure), tiredness or asthenia (weakness), diarrhoea and abdominal (belly) 
pain. The most serious side effects are gastrointestinal perforation (hole in the gut wall), haemorrhage 
(bleeding) and arterial thromboembolism (blood clots in the arteries). For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Alymsys, see the package leaflet. 
Alymsys must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to bevacizumab or any of the 
other ingredients, to Chinese hamster ovary cell products or other recombinant (genetically 
engineered) antibodies. It must not be given to pregnant women. 
Why is Alymsys authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Alymsys has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Avastin and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in non-small cell lung cancer have shown 
that the safety and effectiveness of Alymsys is equivalent to that of Avastin in this indication. 
Alymsys (bevacizumab)  
EMA/64590/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Alymsys will behave in the same way as 
Avastin in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Avastin, the benefits of Alymsys outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Alymsys? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Alymsys have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Alymsys are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Alymsys are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Alymsys 
Alymsys received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 March 2021. 
Further information on Alymsys can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/alymsys.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2021.  
Alymsys (bevacizumab)  
EMA/64590/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
