SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures,  which 
have  been  finalised  before  approval  of  AMBIRIX.  This  scientific  discussion  has  been  updated  until    
1 April 2004. For information on changes after this date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Ambirix is a combined viral vaccine that contains no live viral particles. The hepatitis A virus (HAV) 
component  is  inactivated  and  the  hepatitis  B  virus  (HBV)  surface  antigen  component  (HBsAg)  is  a 
product of recombinant technology. The composition of Ambirix is identical to the applicant's licensed 
vaccine Twinrix Adult, given as 3 dose primary schedule to subjects 16 years of age and above. 
Ambirix is now proposed for use in children and adolescents from 1-15 years according to a two-dose 
primary  schedule.  A  different  name  has  been  proposed  for  the  product  when  used  in  children  and 
adolescents from 1 to 15 years so as to differentiate the two modes of use of the same antigen content 
vaccine. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Ambirix  is  a  suspension  for  injection  and  will  be  supplied  only  in  pre-filled  syringes,  with  or 
without separate needles, in pack sizes of 1, 10 and 50 syringes. 
A 1 ml dose of Ambirix contains not less than 720 ELISA Units of purified inactivated HA virus and 
20 µg of purified recombinant HBsAg protein. 
The  total  amount  of  aluminium  (Al)  is  0.45mg  per  dose.  (specification  0.35  –  0.65  mg/ml).  The 
amount of aluminium per dose is well below the Ph. Eur. limit. 
2-phenoxyethanol  is  used  as  preservative.  This  preservative  is  also  used  in  Havrix,  the  Company’s 
Hepatitis A monovalent vaccine. 
The  vaccine  is  formulated  in  150  mM  sodium  chloride  to  ensure  isotonicity  and  contains  trace 
amounts of neomycin, carried over from the HA virus production process.  
The proposed vaccine composition is identical to that of the currently registered Twinrix Adult vaccine 
for  which  the  EU  Commission  granted  a  Marketing  Authorisation  (EU/1/96/020/001-009)  on 
September 20, 1996. 
Active substance 
The active substances are the same as those already authorised in Twinrix Adult. 
Other ingredients 
The  other  ingredients  and  primary  packaging  materials  are  the  same  as  those  already  authorised  in 
Twinrix Adult. 
Product development and finished product 
The  manufacturing  process  and  specifications  remain  unchanged  compared  to  Twinrix  Adult.  The 
applicant  has  submitted  the  currently  approved  specifications  of  Twinrix  Adult,  which  will  also  be 
applicable to Ambirix. All sites proposed are currently registered for the stated purposes for Twinrix 
Adult.  
1/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the Product 
Given the identical composition and primary packaging materials, a shelf life of 36 months at 2-8 °C, 
which is the shelf life currently approved for Twinrix adult, can be accepted. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Ambirix  is  in  all  aspects  identical  to  the  already  approved  product  Twinrix  Adult.  The  currently 
approved  specifications  and shelf life  of Twinrix  Adult will  also  be  applicable to  Ambirix.  All sites 
proposed are currently registered for the stated purposes for Twinrix Adult. Ambirix will be supplied 
only in pre-filled syringes, with or without separate needles, in pack sizes of 1, 10 and 50 syringes. 
. All follow up measures (FUMs) have been fulfilled except for one, regarding the formulation of the 
media used in the production of a constituent of Ambirix. The Company has accepted to report on this 
FUM also in the context of it’s Ambirix file application. 
Regarding  compliance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  Transmitting  Animal 
Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agent  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal  Products  (EMEA/410/01-
Rev.  1),  the  Company  submitted  a  Type  II  variation  on  12  December  2000  to  its  Twinrix  Adult 
marketing authorisation. A positive opinion has been adopted for this variation during the September 
2001 CHMP meeting.  
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
This  was  entirely  cross-referenced  to  the  Twinrix  Adult  dossier  since  Ambirix  is  identical  to  this 
product. There is no new information.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  data  submitted  by  the  company  to  support  the  use  of  Ambirix™,  administered  in  a  two-dose 
schedule, with an interval between doses of 6 to 12 months, in children and adolescents aged from 1 to 
15 years inclusive, is reviewed and summarised. 
The reports for 7 clinical studies are evaluated. The studies set out to assess the feasibility of the two-
dose schedule. There were three pivotal studies , a  fourth study which examined a flexible schedule 
with  an  interval  between  doses  of  6  to  12  months.  During  the  post-authorisation  phase,  one 
comparative study in which Ambirix and Twinrix adult were compared and two studies in which the 
concomitant  administration  of  a  DTPa-IPV/Hib  vaccine  (Infanrix  IPV  Hib)  and  a  MMR  vaccine 
(Priorix) were submitted. Investigations included:  
• 
• 
safety, tolerability and immunogenicity, 
evaluation of an inter-vaccination interval of 6 to 12 months.  
The design of each study took into consideration the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines in operation at 
the time of the initiation of the study. 
Altogether, 1222 subjects aged ≥ 1 year old were enrolled, of which 983 were assessed for safety and 
911 for immunogenicity.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Since  this  is  a  vaccine,  there  are  no  relevant  data.  All  immunogenicity  data  were  provided  in  the 
discussion of the clinical trials. 
2/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity  
Seven clinical trials evaluated the immunogenicity of Ambirix in 911 healthy children (aged ≥ 1 years 
old)  and  adolescents  proven  to  be  sero-negative  at  baseline.Antibody  titres  have  been  expressed  in 
mIU/ml by reference to a WHO reference serum, for both antigens. 
Results  for  both  anti-HAV  and  anti-HBs  have  been  expressed  as  seroconversion  (SC)  and/or 
seroprotection  (SP)  rates,  at  the  given  time  points.  Geometric  mean  titres  (GMTs)  have  also  been 
computed. 
Anti-HAV  antibody  was  measured  in  the  primary  phases  of  these  trials  using  a  commercial  ELISA 
assay with a cut-off for seronegativity/positivity at 33 mIU/mL. In the follow-up phases to 24 months 
in two trials, the new EIA used for anti-HAV assays had a cut-off at 15 mIU/ml. The EIA was also 
used to re-test month 7 samples so as to  directly compare with  month 24 results. Seropositivity rate 
(S+/SC)  for  Anti-HAV  was  defined  as  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  titre  greater  than  the  cut-off 
point. 
Anti-HBs antibody was measured in the primary phases by a commercial radioimmunoassay (with a 
cut-off of 1 mIU/ml) whereas an ELISA that had a cut-off at 3.3 mIU/mL assayed month 24 samples. 
Seropositivity was defined in both cases as a result above the cut-off. For both assays, seroprotection 
was defined as ≥ 10 mIU/mL. 
All  assays  were  performed  blinded  to  vaccine  treatment  using  validated  procedures  with  adequate 
controls. 
Analyses for each of the studies reported are based upon the “According to Protocol” (ATP) cohorts.  
ATP results were consistent with “Intention to Treat” (ITT) analyses. 
Main studies  
Pivotal studies included HAB-075, HAB-076 and HAB-084. 
• 
Children of 6-11 years 
HAB-076 was an open study that evaluated the immunogenicity of two doses of Ambirix at 0 and 6 
months in 203 evaluable subjects of 1-11 years of age, of which 132 were ≥ 6 years old. 
In subjects ≥ 6 years old, seropositivity rates for anti-HBs antibodies were 73.8% one month after the 
first  dose  and  100%  after  the  second  dose  given  at  month  6  (i.e.  month  7).    The  anti-HBs 
seroprotection rates (titers ≥ 10 mlU/ml) at both time points were 34.6% and 98.5% respectively.  
Seropositivity rates for anti-HAV antibodies were 99.2% one month after the first dose and 100% after 
the second dose given at month 6 (i.e month 7). 
The GMCs for anti-HAV and anti-HBs antibodies were 11293 mIU/ml and 7622 mIU/ml respectively 
after completion of the 2 dose schedule. 
• 
Adolescents  
HAB-084  was an  open, randomised study that compared  Ambirix at  the  proposed two-dose regimen 
with  a  standard  course  of  Twinrix  Paediatric;  with  a  long  term  follow  up  of  the  immune  response. 
There were 142 subjects in the Ambirix group and 148 in the Twinrix Paediatric group evaluable for 
immunogenicity at month 7. 
Anti-HBs  seropositivity  rates  increased  from  80%  in  the  Ambirix  group  and  58%  in  the  Twinrix 
Paediatric group at one month after the first dose, to 93% and 99% immediately before the last dose at 
month 6, and to 100% after the last dose of each regimen. 
3/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Seroprotection  rates  increased  over  time  from  43%  in  the  Ambirix  group  and  29%  in  the  Twinrix 
Paediatric group at month 1, to 38% and 86% respectively at month 2 (reflecting the second dose of 
Twinrix  Paediatric),  and  to  68%  and  98%  immediately  before  the  last  dose.  Rates  were  98%  and 
100% after the final doses. 
GMCs were 4-fold and 15-fold higher at months 2 and 6, respectively, in the Twinrix Paediatric group 
but were very similar between groups after the final dose (4949 and 5054 mIU/ml). 
At month 24, 94% and 98% of the subjects who returned were still seropositive for anti-HBs and 93% 
and 96%, respectively, were seroprotected, with GMCs of 359 and 337 mIU/ml. Data from the kinetics 
cohort showed a decrease in antibody from months 7 to 24 by 93% in both groups. 
Anti-HAV seropositivity rates were 99% and 93% at month 1, 100% and 99% at both months 2 and 6, 
and 100% in both groups at month 7. After the last dose of each regimen, GMCs were 5487 mIU/ml 
and 4174 mIU/ml in the Ambirix and Twinrix Paediatric groups respectively.  
The immune response elicited by Ambirix at month 7 (i.e. after completion of the vaccination course) 
was non-inferior to that of the three dose Twinrix Paediatric vaccine for both antigen components.  
A similar persistence of the immune response was observed with Ambirix and Twinrix Paediatric up 
to month 24:  
- 
- 
At  month  24,  94%  and  98%  of  the  subjects  who  returned  were  still  seropositive  for  anti-HBs 
and 93% and 96%, respectively, were seroprotected, with GMCs of 359 and 337 mIU/ml.  
At  month  24,  all  subjects  were  still  seropositive  for  anti-HAV,  with  GMCs  of  943  and  725 
mIU/ml.  
A  similar  decline  in  anti-HAV  and  anti-HBs  antibody  titres  was  observed  in  both  groups  between 
months 7 and 24. 
HAB-082 was an open, randomised study that compared the immunogenicity of two doses of Ambirix 
when given at either six or twelve months apart, with a long term follow up of the immune response. 
There were 106 subjects in the Ambirix 0, 6 month group and 102 in the 0, 12 month group evaluable 
for immunogencity at month 7 or month 13. 
The  immune  response  elicited  by  Ambirix  was  demonstrated  to  be  non-inferior  for  the  0,12  month 
schedule, versus the 0,6 month schedule.  
Seropositivity  rates  for  anti-HAV  antibodies  immediately  prior  to  the  second  dose  of  vaccine  were, 
respectively  95  %  (0,  6  schedule)  and  84  %  (0,  12  schedule).  All  subjects  except  one  (in  the  0,  12 
schedule) were seropositive after completion of the vaccination course. The GMCs for the two groups 
were 5992 and 8472 mIU/ml respectively after the second doses. 
At month 24, all subjects in the previous 0, 6 month group and 80/81 in the 0, 12 month group were 
seropositive, with GMCs at 744 and  1075  mIU/ml, representing  decreases in anti-HAV between the 
second dose and month 24 of the study by 91% and 83% in the two initial groups. 
Seroprotection rates against HBV immediately prior to the second dose of vaccine were 59 % and 51 
%, respectively for the 0, 6 and 0, 12-month schedule. After the second dose, 98 % (0, 6) and 97 % (0, 
12) of subjects had antibody titres of ≥ 10 mIU/ml. The GMCs for the two groups were 2791 and 4340 
mIU/ml respectively after the second doses. 
At month 24, 93% and 99% were still seropositive, 91% and 94% were seroprotected, and GMCs were 
248 and  570  mIU/ml, representing decreases in anti-HBs between the second  dose  and  month  24 of 
the study by 95% and 92% in the two initial groups. 
4/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The persistence of anti-HAV and anti-HBs antibodies at month 24 was shown to be similar following 
a 0, 6 or a 0, 12 month schedule. 
HAB-075  was  a  double-blind  study  in  which  Ambirix  (67  subjects)  was  compared  with  an 
experimental combined hepatitis A and B vaccine containing a higher antigen content (55 subjects) in 
11-18 year-olds at 0 and 6 months. Both vaccines were administered in a schedule of 0 and 6 months.  
In both groups, all subjects were seropositive for anti-HAV antibodies and were seroprotected against 
hepatitis  B  after  the  second  dose  (i.e  at  month  7).  The  immune  response  observed  with  Ambirix  at 
intermediate time-points was consistent with that seen in previous studies described above. 
Long-term antibody persistence 
In  adolescents,  seropositivity  with  respect  to  both  viral  components  and  seroprotection  to  HBV  was 
almost uniformly maintained at month 24. Anti-HBs and anti-HAV GMCs were similar to those seen 
after the Twinrix Paediatric regimen.  These findings and the kinetics of decreases in antibody, were 
comparable with the results of HAB-039, a previously reported trial in which Twinrix Paediatric was 
administered to 1-6 year-olds.  
Additional Studies submitted after initial approval: 
HAB-120  was  an  open  multi-centre  comparative  trial  that  primarily  compared  the  reactogenicity  of 
Ambirix  (at  0,  6  months)  with  Twinrix  Paediatric  (at  0,  1,  6  months)  in  subjects  aged  1  to  11 years 
(inclusive).  For  an  early  assessment  of  grade  3  solicited  symptoms,  a  descriptive  interim  safety 
analysis was performed at one month after the first vaccine dose. Eligible subjects were not known to 
be seropositive for antibodies to hepatitis A virus (anti-HAV), hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc) or 
hepatitis  B  virus  (anti-HBs)  and  or  to  have  detectable  hepatitis  B  surface  antigen  (HBsAg).  In  this 
study  249  healthy  children  received  Ambirix,  while  250  were  vaccinated  with  Twinrix  paediatric. 
Randomisation  employed  a  standard  validated  program  and  stratification  by  age  group  (1  to  5  year 
olds vs 6 to 11 year olds) and by centre.  
In both the ATP and total cohorts, the GMT for anti-HBsAg antibody was higher (with no overlap of 
95% CI) in the group that received three doses of Twinrix Paediatric rather than Ambirix. However, 
the  GMTs  in  both  groups  were  so  very  high  that  this  difference  is  not  likely  to  be  of  any  clinical 
significance.  
Following a CHMP request, the MAH provided the proportion of children achieving anti-HBs levels 
 ≥  100  mIU/ml  for  the  two  age  groups  (1-5  years  old  and  6-11  years  old)  and  for  the  overall  study 
cohort. The proportion of children with anti-HBs levels ≥ 100 mIU/ml was confirmed to be similar in 
both vaccine groups and close to 100% in the two age cohorts.  
HAB-085 was an open and non-comparative study that was planned to evaluate the immunogenicity of 
Ambirix when the first dose was administered concomitantly with a DTaP-IPV/Hib vaccine. A single 
lot of each vaccine was used throughout the study. For the concomitant administration, injections were 
given into opposite thighs. The second dose of Ambirix was given into the same thigh as the first dose. 
Blood samples were obtained at months 0, 1 and 7. Safety data were collected in a similar fashion to 
that described for HAB-120. 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  designated  as  the  proportion  of  previously  seronegative  subjects 
with anti-HAV antibody ≥ 33 mIU/ml and with anti-HBs antibody ≥ 10 mIU/ml one month after the 
second dose (i.e. the combined response rate). 
The  ATP  cohort  for  analysis  of  immunogenicity  included  all  previously  seronegative  subjects  for 
whom assay results were available for antibody against at least one antigen after vaccination. 
 All  60  subjects  enrolled  completed  the  study.  Of  these,  53  subjects  were  eligible  for  the 
immunogenicity  analysis.  The  data  do  not  suggest  that  there  should  be  any  detrimental  effect  of 
Ambirix  on  responses  to  DTaP-IPV/Hib  vaccines  when  given  in  the  second  year  of  life.  Similarly, 
such vaccines would not be expected to interfere with responses to the HAV and HBsAg antigens in 
Ambirix. 
HAB 087 was an open clinical study that was designed to investigate concomitant administration of 
Ambirix  and  Measles-Mumps-Rubella  (MMR)  vaccine  to  healthy  infants  aged  12-15  at  time  of  the 
5/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
first  dose  of  each  vaccine.  The  plan  was  to  enrol  60  eligible  healthy  children  in  order  to  obtain  50 
evaluable  subjects.  Eligible  subjects  had  to  have  completed  the  primary  course  of  DTP  and  OPV  at 
least 30 days before study entry. 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects with anti-HAV antibody titres ≥ 33 mIU/ml and 
with anti-HBs antibody titres ≥ 10 mIU/ml one month after the second dose, calculated at month 7 for 
all  initially  seronegative  subjects.  Patient  cohorts  were  defined  as  in  HAB-085.  Out  of  57  enrolled 
patients,  52  completed  the  study.  Out  of  these,  37  were  included  in  the  ATP  analysis  of 
immunogenicity.  For  the  ATP  immunogenicity  cohort,  all  subjects  were  seroprotected  for  anti-HBs, 
such  that  all  subjects  had  at  least  100  mIU/ml  antibody.  This  applies  also  to  the  seroprotection 
regarding anti-HAV with a GMT value of 11016 mIU/ml. Concerning the immunogenicity results of 
the  concomitantly administrated MMR  vaccine, all subjects  were  seropositive for  anti-measles, anti-
mumps and anti-rubella antibodies after Priorix was given at the same time as Ambirix, this is also the 
case for the total cohort at month 1. 
Discussion on immunogenicity 
• 
Dose and dose regimen  
Pooled  data  from  all  subjects  of  1-15  years  who  received  Ambirix  at  0,  6  months,  showed  that  this 
regimen resulted in uniform seropositivity with respect to HAV and HBsAg, and that almost all (98%) 
subjects were also seroprotected against HBV.  
In  adolescents,  Ambirix  at  0,  6  months  gave  100%  seropositivity  for  both  viruses  and  an  HBV 
seroprotection rate of 98% after the second dose, compared with 100% for all three parameters after a 
standard three-dose regimen of Twinrix Paediatric.  
In  adolescents,  final  seropositivity  and  seroprotection  rates  and  GMCs  were  comparable  when  the 
second dose was delayed for up to 12 months. The pre-second dose seropositivity/seroprotection rates 
and GMCs were similar or only slightly higher for 6 months vs 12 months, indicating that a delay in 
the second dose is not likely to have a huge impact on susceptibility to infection.    
In study HAB-075 in adolescents, there was some advantage for the higher strength vaccine (eg. for 
seropositivity at month 6, and higher HBV seroprotection rates at months 2 and 6), but the differences 
vs Ambirix were not marked and the dose that has been proposed is considered to be supported. 
Throughout the administration period, Ambirix is expected to provide the same degree of protection as 
Twinrix Paediatric against HAV, but not against HBV. As expected, a  higher proportion  of subjects 
were  seroprotected  against  hepatitis  B  by  month  2  following  two  doses  of  Twinrix  Paediatric  (at 
months  0  and  1)  than  after  a  single  dose  of  Ambirix  (at  month  0),  when  measured  at  the  same  time 
point. This finding of lower intervening seroprotection rates for Ambirix compared with the three-dose 
regimen of Twinrix Paediatric before the final dose is likely to be applicable throughout the 1-15 year 
age range.  
However, the final protection rates are indistinguishable. Ambirix should therefore be used only when 
there is a relatively low risk of hepatitis B infection during the vaccination course. It is recommended 
that Ambirix should be administered in settings where completion of the two-dose vaccination course 
can be assured. 
It is pointed out that the epidemiology of Hepatitis B infection in Europe is such that rapid protection 
is generally not needed in the target age group for Ambirix (1-15 years). That is, the peak incidence of 
hepatitis B infection in the EU is 20 to 30 acute cases per 100,000, and this occurs in the 20-30 years 
age group, in which the majority of infections are acquired through sexual activity and parenteral drug 
abuse.  Therefore,  rapid  protection  against  hepatitis  B  infection  in  1  to  15  year-olds  should  only  be 
required in somewhat exceptional circumstances.  These  might include subjects travelling to areas of 
high  endemicity,  those  housed  in  certain  types  of  institutions,  and  subjects  in  close  contact  with 
HBsAg carriers. 
6/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Symptoms were recorded as general and local. Solicited general symptoms included fatigue, salivary 
gland  swelling,  rash,  fever,  gastrointestinal  symptoms  including  loss  of  appetite,  drowsiness, 
irritability/fussiness,  meningism  and  headache.  Local  symptoms  included  redness,  soreness/pain  and 
swelling. 
Patient exposure 
In total, 983subjects aged ≥ 1 years received at least one of the two allotted doses of Ambirix and were 
evaluable for safety. There were 295 children of 6-11 years of age, and 459 adolescents. 
Adverse events 
• 
Children 1-5 years 
In HAB 120: 
The main reported local adverse events in the age group of 1-5 years of age  were pain (approximately 
33  %  of  injections)  redness  (approximately  17%  of  injections)  and  swelling    (approximately  13%of 
injections)  at  the  injection  site.  The  number  and  severity  of  these  events  did  not  increase  after  the 
second dose.  In terms of systemic effects, the most commonly reported was irritability/fussiness (18% 
of doses) followed by drowsiness (12% of doses). Loss of appetite was reported in less than 10 % of 
all doses, while fever was reported following approximately 7% of all doses. 
In HAB 85 
Pain  at  the  injection  site  was  reported  following  11.7-15%  of  Ambirix  doses,  while  redness  ocurred 
after 3.3-5%  of the injections. One subject showed a swelling after the first (1,7%), but not after the 
second  dose.    The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  symptom  following  all  doses  was 
irritability  but  no  general  symptom  was  of  grade  3.  Fever  was  reported  much  more  frequently 
following  dose  1  (concomitant  -  25%  vs  1.7%).  There  were  17  subjects  who  reported  a  total  of  25 
unsolicited  symptoms  during  the  30-day  follow-up  period,  all  of  which  were  considered  general  in 
nature  and  none  was  of  grade  3  or  was  determined  by  the  investigator  to  have  a  probable/suspected 
relationship to the study vaccine.  Six subjects reported one SAE each. These were determined by the 
investigators  to  have  no  relationship  to  vaccination.  These  included  instances  of  gastroenteritis, 
gastritis,  bronchitis  and  hypoglycaemia  after  the  first  dose  of  vaccine  but  all  subjects  received  the 
second dose as planned. 
In HAB 87, which was performed in children 12 to 15 months of age, 45.9% of doses were followed 
by general symptoms and 47.7% of doses were followed by local symptoms (solicited and unsolicited) 
during the 4-day follow-up period after vaccination. 
The breakdown for local symptoms by vaccine shows no appreciable difference between the two doses 
of  Ambirix  but  a  higher  rate  than  with  Priorix.  In  the  4-day  follow-up  period,  redness  (31.2%)  and 
pain  (27.5%)  were  commonest  and  more  subjects  reported  solicited  local  symptoms  at  the  Ambirix 
than  at  the  Priorix  injection  site.  However,  none  were  grade  3.  Over  the  4-day  follow-up  period, 
irritability (49.1%) and loss of appetite (40.4%) were the most prevalent solicited general symptoms 
reported  by  subject.  Fever  was  reported  by  15.8%  of  subjects  but  only  one  case  was  grade  3  and 
determined by the investigator to have a probable relationship to vaccine. 
• 
Children 6-11 years 
In HAB-076,  
Local  adverse  reactions  were  reported  after  approximately  49%  of  injections  whereas  systemic 
reactions  were  reported  after  approximately  28%  of  doses.  The  most  common  local  side  effect  was 
7/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pain at the injection site (47% of doses). Only 4 cases of pain graded as severe were reported, which 
all resolved within the four-day follow up period. Other local side effects were redness and swelling. 
In  terms  of  systemic  effects,  the  most  commonly  reported  was  fatigue  (15%  of  doses)  followed  by 
headache (11% of doses). Fever was reported following less than 5% of all doses; temperature > 39°C 
was reported with an overall incidence of <0.3%. 
No increase was observed in the reactogenicity profile with the subsequent dose. 
• 
Adolescents 
In HAB-084, in comparison with Twinrix Paediatric, overall differences between regimens were 55% 
vs  43%  for  local  and  37%  vs  29%  for  general  reactions  but  the  by-subject  rates  were  very  similar 
between groups. These differences were mainly due to the higher incidence of local pain (51% vs 39% 
for all doses) and the higher rate of fatigue (29% vs 19%) with Ambirix. 
In  HAB-082,  administration  of  two  doses  of  the  same  antigen  content  vaccine  at  either  a  6  or  12 
month interval did not result in notably different rates for local and general reactions after the first or 
second doses.  
In HAB-075, local and general reaction rates were higher in the higher strength vaccine group after the 
second dose (51% and 76% subjects for local; 30% and 48% subjects for general reactions) but not the 
first dose. These differences between groups were due to the incidence of soreness (45% vs 76%) and 
the  higher  rates  of  headache  (14%  vs  36%)  and  fatigue  (19%  vs  31%)  after  the  second  dose  of  the 
higher strength vaccine. 
Serious adverse events 
23 subjects ≥ 1 years old  vaccinated with  Ambirix reported a SAE  during the  primary course  of the 
seven  studies...  One  case  was  determined  by  the  investigator  to  have  a  probable  relationship  to  the 
study vaccine(s). This involved a case of febrile convulsions plus unrelated rhinopharyngitis. 
Withdrawals due to Adverse Events 
Two subjects from the Twinrix Paediatric group dropped out of the study due to an adverse event. One 
subject was withdrawn due to erythematous rashes considered to be probably vaccine-related, and one 
was withdrawn due to purpura presumed to be allergic but not vaccine-related.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
• 
Children (1-5 years) 
The solicited local and systemic symptoms for the 1-5 years age cohort only show no notable excess 
of any local or systemic reaction in the Ambirix group in this age group. The analyses did not raise 
any additional concerns regarding the safety of Ambirix in children aged 1-5 years. It appears that the 
safety profile of Ambirix in 1-5 year old children is similar to that of Twinrix Paediatric. 
• 
Children (6-11 years) 
Local  reaction  rates,  predominantly  pain  at  the  injection  site,  were  the  most  frequently  reported 
symptoms. However, the majority of local symptoms were mild to moderate in intensity and did not 
show a difference between the first and second dose. General symptoms were uncommonly reported 
(frequency <16% of all doses for each solicited symptom). 
8/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Ambirix vs Twinrix Paediatric 
Local  and  general  reaction  rates  were  higher  for  Ambirix  vs  Twinrix  Paediatric  after  the  first  and 
second  doses  of  the  two  regimens  in  adolescents,  mainly  due  to  the  incidences  of  local  pain  and 
fatigue, although there was no difference between regimens in the by-subject analysis.  
In  children  1  –  11  years  of  age,  incidence  of  local  and  general  symptoms  after  vaccination  with 
Ambirix or Twinrix Paediatric was similar, with Ambirix being non-inferior to Twinrix Paediatric in 
terms of percentage of subjects reporting solicited local or general symptoms considered as severe. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
As Ambirix is in all aspects identical to the already licensed Twinrix Adult vaccine, and is produced 
and released in exactly the same way, the quality of this product is considered acceptable. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
This  was  entirely  cross-referenced  to  the  Twinrix  Adult  dossier  since  Ambirix  is  identical  to  this 
product. There is no new information. 
Immunogenicity 
SC, SP rates and GMTs at one month following completion of the 2 dose primary course were within 
the  ranges  seen  in  children  vaccinated  with  Twinrix  Paediatric  in  the  3-dose  regime.  However  as 
expected a higher proportion of subjects are protected by month 2, following two doses of Twinrix 
Paediatric (at months 0 and 1) than after a single dose of Ambirix, when measured at the same time 
point.  Thus  if  more  rapid  protection  against  hepatitis  B  is  required,  the  three  dose  regime  with 
Twinrix Paediatric would be the preferred option.  
Extending  the  inter-vaccination  interval  from  6-12  months  did  not  appreciably  change  the  immune 
response to the second dose of vaccine.  
Safety 
In  the  target  age  group  (1  to  15  yrs  old),  the  incidence  of  local  and  general  symptoms  was  overall 
similar after Ambirix and Twinrix Paediatric, the only exceptions being a higher incidence of pain and 
fatigue (both on a per dose basis) after Ambirix. However, by-subject rates for all symptoms including 
pain and fatigue were overall similar to those of the Twinrix Paediatric vaccine. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the review of the data submitted in the registration file, additional information provided by 
the applicant in response to the Consolidated List of Questions and the data that was submitted after 
the  initial  approval,  the  CHMP  considers  that  Ambirix  may  be  approved  for  use  in  non  immune 
children  and  adolescents  from  1  years  up  to  and  including  15  years  for  protection  against  hepatitis 
 A and hepatitis B infection. Protection against hepatitis B infections may not be obtained until after 
the second dose. 
Therefore  Ambirix  should  be  used  only  when  there  is  a  relatively  low  risk  of  hepatitis  B  infection 
during the vaccination course. 
It is recommended that Ambirix should be administered in settings where completion of the two- dose 
vaccination course can be assured. The approved two-dose regimen is for immunisation at months 0 
and months 6-12. 
9/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Ambirix  in  the  prophylaxis  of  non-immune  children  and 
adolescents from 1 years up to and including 15 years against hepatitis A and hepatitis B infection, is 
favourable.  
10/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
