26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Ambrisentan Mylan  
International non-proprietary name: ambrisentan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004985/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Ambrisentan Mylan 
Applicant: 
  MYLAN S.A.S 
117 Allee des Parcs 
69800 Saint-Priest 
FRANCE 
Active substance: 
AMBRISENTAN 
International non-proprietary 
name/Common name: 
ambrisentan 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
other antihypertensives, antihypertensives for 
(ATC Code): 
pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(C02KX02) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Ambrisentan Mylan is indicated for treatment 
of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in 
adult patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) II 
to III, including use in combination treatment.  
Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH 
(IPAH) and in PAH associated with connective 
tissue disease. 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Film-coated tablet 
Strength(s): 
5 mg and 10 mg 
Route(s) of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
blister (PVC/PVdC/alu) 
Package size(s): 
30 tablets and 30 x 1 tablets (unit dose) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 2/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
1.3. Steps taken for the re-examination procedure ............. Error! Bookmark not defined. 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Active substance ................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ...................................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .. Error! Bookmark not defined. 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects Error! Bookmark 
not defined. 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ... Error! Bookmark not defined. 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 13 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 13 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 13 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 13 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 14 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 16 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 21 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 21 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 21 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 21 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 22 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 23 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 23 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 23 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 23 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 23 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 3/25 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ANOVA   
AE  
ASMF 
BCS  
BE  
% CV    
CI  
CMAX    
CQA  
CV  
EC 
EU  
FC  
GLM  
GLP 
GC   
GCP  
HIV  
HDPE 
HPLC     
ICH 
IEC  
IR 
KEL 
KF  
LDPE 
NMR 
Ph. Eur. 
PK  
PAH  
PVC 
PVDC    
QSAR 
QTPP    
QWP 
RH 
SD  
S E  
SmPC    
SAS  
TMAX    
T1/2  
TLC 
TMAX    
TSE 
VD  
UV 
WHO  
XRPD 
Analysis of Variance 
Adverse event 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Bioequivalence 
% Coefficient of Variation 
Confidence Intervals 
Maximum Plasma Concentration 
Critical Quality Attribute 
Coefficient of Variation 
European Commission 
European Union 
Functional class 
General linear model 
Good laboratory practice 
Gas Chromatograph 
Good clinical practice 
Human immunodeficiency virus 
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical 
Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Institutional ethical committee 
Infrared 
Elimination Rate Constant 
Karl Fischer titration 
Low density polyethylene 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension 
Polyvinyl chloride 
Polyvinylidene chloride 
Quantitative structure activity relationship 
Quality target product profile 
Quality Working Party 
Relative Humidity 
Standard Deviation 
Standard Error 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Statistical Analysis Software 
Plasma Concentration Reaches a Peak 
The Elimination Half-Life 
Thin layer chromatography 
Time of The Maximum Measured Plasma Concentration 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Volume of Distribution 
Ultraviolet 
World health organization 
X-Ray Powder Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 4/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant MYLAN S.A.S submitted on 30 April 2018 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ambrisentan Mylan, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility 
to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 January 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Ambrisentan Mylan is indicated for treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adult patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III, including 
use in combination treatment.  Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH associated 
with connective tissue disease. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Volibris instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 8 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Volibris 5/10 mg film-coated tablets 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd 
•  Date of authorisation: (21-04-2008) 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/451 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Volibris 5/10 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd 
Date of authorisation: (21-04-2008) 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/451 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Volibris 5/10 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd 
Date of authorisation: (21-04-2008) 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 5/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/08/451/001-004 
•  Bioavailability study number: C17139 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Eleftheria Nikolaidi 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
30 April 2018 
24 May 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
7 August 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
28 August 2018 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
20 September 2018 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
 4 January 2019 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
 4 February 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
14 February 2019 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
28 February 2019 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
28 March 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
09 April 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 6/25 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
26 April 2019 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Ambrisentan Mylan on  
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Adempas and Opsumit 
26 April 2019 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Ambrisentan Mylan is a proposed generic product of Volibris which is indicated for pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) in adult patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III, including use in combination 
treatment.  
The proposed product is an immediate release film-coated 5mg and 10 mg tablets containing ambrisentan 
as an active substance and the recommended dose is 5 mg once daily which may be increased to 10 mg 
daily depending upon clinical response and tolerability.  
Ambrisentan was first introduced into the market in Europe not less than eight years ago as Volibris film 
coated tablets. This Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) is made on the basis that Ambrisentan 
film-coated tablets 5/10 mg is essentially similar to Volibris 5/10 mg film-coated tablets in accordance 
with Article 10(1) (a) (iii) of Directive 2001/83/EC. The indications sought are the same as those for 
Volibris 5/10 mg film-coated tablets. 
As this is an abridged license application claiming essential similarity to a currently marketed product, no 
clinical studies have been undertaken to support the application. One bioequivalence study was 
undertaken comparing Ambrisentan Mylan film coated tablets 10 mg against Volibris 10 mg film coated 
tablets under fasting conditions. 
In addition, the Applicant made reference to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1 – January. 2010) and provided justification in order to prove that  
Ambrisentan 5 mg film-coated tablets satisfy the conditions for waiver of bioequivalence studies 
conducted with Ambrisentan 10 mg film-coated tablets.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 5 and 10 mg of Ambrisentan as active 
substance.  
Other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: lactose, microcrystalline cellulose (E460i), croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. 
Film coat: poly(vinyl alcohol) partly hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol, talc (E553b), allura 
red AC aluminium lake (E129) and indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132). 
The product is available in PVC/PVDC blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 7/25 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active  substance 
General information 
The chemical name of ambrisentan is (+)-(2S)-2-[(4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy]-3- 
methoxy-3,3-diphenylpropanoic acid corresponding to the molecular formula C22H22N2O4. It has a 
relative molecular mass of 378.42 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of ambrisentan was elucidated by a combination of IR, UV, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, mass 
spectrometry and elemental analysis. The solid state properties of the active substance were measured 
by XRPD, melting point and laser diffraction. 
Ambrisentan is a white to off-white powder, non-hygroscopic, slightly soluble in methanol and practically 
insoluble in water. It is slightly soluble in alkaline buffers (pH 6.8 and 8.0). The active substance is 
considered to be a “low solubility and high permeability drug” (BCS Class 2). 
Ambrisentan exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of one chiral centre. The material 
manufactured is consistently S (+) isomer. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by chiral HPLC and 
specific optical rotation.  
Polymorphism has been observed for the active substance. Different forms Form-M, Form-R, Form-V, 
Form-VI, crystalline form, Form-I, DMSO co-crystal form and stabilized amorphous form are reported in 
the literature. Consistent manufacture of the same polymorphic form is confirmed by the manufacturer, 
at release, during storage and under stress (high temperature, humidity and photolytic) conditions.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
The active substance is synthesized using commercially available well defined starting materials with 
acceptable specifications. The manufacturing process has been validated. Adequate in-process controls 
are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, 
starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Specifications for the reagents, solvents and processing aids are included. The limits proposed are found 
sufficient to comply with the ICH Q3C (R6) requirements. Details on the origin of process related 
impurities and degradation products including formation pathways have been provided and it has been 
demonstrated that all potential impurities (including the chiral and genotoxic impurities) are controlled in 
isolated intermediates or the final active substance. All compounds involved in the synthesis of the active 
substance, including starting materials, intermediates, solvents and reagents have been assessed for 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 8/25 
 
 
 
 
QSAR Alerts. Application of the guideline ICH M7 and an adequate control strategy for each compound 
have been presented. Discussion and risk assessment on elemental impurities as per ICH Q3D guideline 
has been submitted.  
The active substance is packed in a LDPE bag, which complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 
10/2011 as amended, inserted in a black polythene bag and further placed in HDPE drums.  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for: appearance, solubility, identity (IR, HPLC, XRPD, 
specific optical rotation), water content (KF), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.) assay (HPLC), related substances 
(HPLC), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), impurities (UPLC), residual solvents (GC) and particle size (laser 
diffraction). 
Although the active substance is non-sterile and the finished product is an oral dosage form, three 
consecutive production scale batches of ambrisentan were tested for total aerobic microbial count, total 
combined molds and yeast count and specified microorganisms. Microbial growth was not observed for 
specified microbial species justifying the omission of a test for microbial limits in the active substance 
specification. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data of 3 commercial scale batches of the active substance are provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on 3 commercial scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer stored 
in the intended commercial package for up to 60 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) 
and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines 
were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification (IR, HPLC), water content, related 
substances, enantiomeric purity, and assay. Samples stored under accelerated conditions were also 
tested for polymorphic form (XRPD) and impurities by UPLC. The analytical methods used were the same 
as for release. Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch. Results 
on stress conditions were also provided. It is concluded that the active substance is not sensitive to base, 
oxidation, thermal and UV radiation conditions. In the acidic conditions, the only degradation peak 
corresponds to decarboxylate impurity. These results demonstrate the stability indicating nature of the 
HPLC method used for the determination of assay and related substances. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The immediate release, film-coated tablets are packaged in PVC/PVDC blister packs comprised of clear to 
almost clear, transparent PVC coated with PVDC on one side and hard tempered aluminium foil coated 
with heat seal lacquer on other side. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 9/25 
 
 
 
The 5 mg tablet is a pink, film-coated, round, biconvex tablet debossed with ‘M’ on one side of the tablet 
and ‘AN’ on the other side. Diameter: approximately 5.7 mm. 
The 10 mg tablet is a pink, film-coated, capsule shaped, biconvex tablet debossed with ‘M’ on one side of 
the tablet and ‘AN1’ on the other side. Dimensions: approximately 9.9 mm × 4.8 mm. 
The purpose of the pharmaceutical development studies was to develop an essentially similar, generic 
version of the branded formulation (Volibris). The product should be suitable for large-scale manufacture 
and demonstrate acceptable stability performance in the proposed marketing pack.  
The quality target product profile (QTPP) was based on the properties of the active substance, 
characterisation of the reference product, consideration of the reference product label and intended 
patient population. The QTPP was defined as 5 mg and 10 mg oral immediate release tablets, 
bioequivalent to the reference product, with a shelf-life of at least 24 months at room temperature in a 
blister or HDPE bottle with defined quality attributes (identification, assay, content uniformity, related 
substances, dissolution, water content and microbial tests). 
Identification of critical quality attributes (CQAs) was based on the severity of harm to a patient (safety 
and efficacy) resulting from failure to meet that quality attributes of the finished product. Risk assessment 
was performed to identify the formulation variables affecting the proposed CQAs. The identified 
formulation variables were studied at various levels and the optimized level of each variable was selected 
based on the desired values of the CQAs. An updated formulation risk assessment was found to be 
satisfactory as the high and medium formulation risks were reduced to low. 
Following formulation risk assessment, a similar risk assessment was conducted to evaluate the risk 
associated with various manufacturing process variables like blending, lubrication and compression. 
Formulations were prepared employing different levels of each process variable and evaluated for the 
affected CQAs. The final ranges for each process parameters were determined based on the results of 
these studies. Subsequently, the risk assessment was updated after process development to capture the 
reduced level of risk based on improved process understanding. 
Various physico-chemical characteristics of the active substance were considered during the development 
of the product: particle size distribution, apparent density, tapped density, compressibility index, Hausner 
ratio, flowability (very poor), solubility (increasing as pH increases), melting point, pKa (4.0), 
polymorphism isomerism is controlled in the active substance specification), hygroscopicity 
(non-hygroscopic) and compatibility with the excipients selected (in terms of the insignificant increase of 
the total impurities after 4 weeks accelerated storage of different binary mixtures of the active substance 
and each excipient). 
The excipients used in ambrisentan tablets were selected based on the excipients used in the reference 
product, drug-excipient compatibility study and their functionality. The drug-excipient compatibility study 
showed that active substance is compatible with all the excipients used for the study. Except film coating 
material, all the excipients used are conventional pharmaceutical ingredients that comply with the 
requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. The film coating materials is proprietary material 
purchased from an established commercial supplier, to an agreed specification. The individual compendial 
components used in the manufacturing of Opadry coating material comply with the monograph in Ph. Eur. 
The colorants used in Opadry coating material comply with directive (EU) No.231/2012. There are no 
novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 
of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
Various formulation optimization studies were also conducted (regarding diluents, disintegrant, lubricant, 
active substance particle size and filmcoating weight). The formula selected was the one that showed 
comparable disintegration time and dissolution profile to that of reference product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 10/25 
 
 
 
Comparative dissolution profiles of the Applicant’s ambrisentan 5 mg and 10 mg film-coated tablets and 
the reference product Volibris 5 and 10 mg film-coated tablets were generated in different dissolution 
media  
The comparison of the test product strength used in the bioequivalence study (10 mg) and the other 
strength (5mg) showed that the in vitro release profile of test product is similar to that of reference 
product and also as demonstrated in the in vivo bio-equivalence study. Based on the results and similarity 
factor (f2 values), it is concluded that dissolution profiles of test product used in bioequivalence study (10 
mg) and other strength of test product (5 mg) was found to be similar in all the media covering the pH 
range of 1.2 to 6.8 at 50 rpm as per the requirement of the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence and hence request the Agency to grant biowaiver for Ambrisentan 5mg film-coated 
tablets. 
The release profile of lower strength across the physiological pH (1.2, 4.5 to 6.8) at 50 rpm as per the 
requirements of Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr 
**) is found to be similar as that of release profile of bio-test strength and reference product. Hence the 
requirement of bio-waiver for the lower strength is fulfilled.  
The formulation used during clinical studies is the same as that intended for marketing.  
In order to assess the ability of the selected dissolution method to discriminate between good 
(bio-equivalent) and bad formulations, the applicant has performed dissolution studies on different 10 mg 
batches formulated with slightly modified composition, and manufactured using different conditions.  The 
batches formulated with variation in composition or manufactured using different processing conditions 
showed comparable dissolution with the intended batch formula. The discriminatory power of the 
dissolution method has been demonstrated. 
Biowaiver justification for Ambrisentan 5 mg film-coated tablets was provided based on the fact: 
-both the strengths of Ambrisentan film-coated tablets (5 mg and 10 mg) are manufactured by the same 
manufacturer at the same manufacturing site using the same manufacturing process; 
-the excipients included on the formulation are well established and no interaction with the 
pharmacokinetics of the active substance is expected;  
-the qualitative composition of both strengths is the same. Both the strengths are direct scale up/scale 
down formulations and the ratio between the amounts of each excipient to the amount of the active 
substance is the same for both the strengths; 
-both strengths exhibit similar in-vitro performance. The dissolution profiles are similar; and  
-the absorption kinetics of ambrisentan is linear within the therapeutic dose range.  
The bio-equivalence study results of Ambrisentan 10 mg film-coated tablets can be extended to 
Ambrisentan 5 mg film-coated tablets. 
The manufacturing process was optimized for blending time for both pre-lubrication stage and lubrication 
stage with regard to blend uniformity, and tablet hardness (resistance to crushing) range, with regard to 
dissolution profile and in comparison with reference product. 
To achieve this, trials were taken with different blending times and optimized based on blend uniformity. 
To evaluate the effect of tablet hardness on product characteristics, tablets were compressed at different 
hardness range and evaluated for physical parameters and dissolution. 
There are no overages in the finished product. 
Discussion and risk assessment on elemental impurities as per ICH Q3D guideline has been submitted.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 11/25 
 
 
 
The primary packaging is PVC/PVDC blisters. The material complies with Ph.Eur. and EC requirements. 
The choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the 
intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The in-process controls are adequate for this manufacturing process. A process validation protocol and 
relevant data are provided in the documentation. Additional commitment on the future validation of 
production scale batches and relevant process validation protocols at the higher edge of the proposed 
batch size are also provided. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: 
description, identification (HPLC, UV), dissolution (HPLC), uniformity of dosage (content uniformity), 
related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), water (KF), microbiological control (Ph. Eur.) and color 
identification (TLC).  
Exactly the same specifications apply also for the 5 mg strength, except for appearance (a pink, film- 
coated, round, biconvex tablet debossed with `M' on one side of the tablet and `AN' on the other side)  
No skip testing (other than colour identification and microbiological testing) is proposed. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 pilot scale batches (half of production scale) confirming the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product 
specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 3 pilot scale batches (half of production scale) of each strength of finished product 
stored for up to 36 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of 
medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for the same tests as in Shelf life specifications. Stability indicating parameters 
studied include description, assay, dissolution, water content, related substances and microbiological test.  
The results found are well within the set specification limits and material balance (regarding assay and 
impurities results) is maintained at all times under all tested conditions. 
One batch of ambrisentan tablets of each strength was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on 
Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. The study results indicated they were no out 
of specification results for assay, related substances and dissolution of tablets in the tablets exposed or 
protected from light, when compared to initial results. Thus, it can be concluded that ambrisentan tablets 
are photostable. 
Bulk packs are proposed for holding the finished product before packaging or for transportation to any 
other approved re-packaging site in Europe. The data submitted supports a 12 months of holding time for 
the bulk package 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 36 months and “This medicinal product does 
not require any special storage condition” as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 12/25 
 
 
 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented 
to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.   
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant considered that consumption and population data over the last 4 years across 25 different 
Member States provide adequate justification for the absence of specific ERA study for Ambrisentan Mylan 
5 and 10 mg. At the request of the CHMP, and using a prevalence for PAH of 26.0 per million, as the worst 
case scenario, based on available published data, the obtained PECSURFACEWATER the action limit of 0.01 
μg/L.  
The partition coefficient (LogP) of Ambrisentan in Octanol/Water at 25°C was experimentally determined 
to be 1.21 ± 0.20, indicating a low potential for bioaccumulation. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
As ambrisentan is a well-known active substance, no further studies concerning pharmacodynamic, 
pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of this active substance are required. Therefore the 
submitted overview based on literature review was considered appropriate by the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 13/25 
 
 
 
A valid justification for not submitting a full ERA was given. The estimated PECSURFACEWATER for 
ambrisentan in Ambrisentan Mylan tablets was below the action limit of 0.01 μg/L as defined in the ‘EMA 
Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMA/CHMP/SWP/44609/2010)’. Furthermore, the partition coefficient (LogP) of Ambrisentan in 
Octanol/Water indicated a low potential for bioaccumulation and therefore it was agreed that no further 
evaluation of the environmental toxicity was needed.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP agreed that there are no objections to the approval of Ambrisentan Mylan from a non-clinical 
point of view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for tablets containing ambrisentan. To support the marketing authorisation 
application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with a cross-over design under fasting 
conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as well as the EMA Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09) are of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
The applicant requested a waiver of the bio-study for the lower (5 mg) strength.  This requested was 
considered possible, as both strengths of the Ambrisentan Mylan film-coated tablets (5 mg and 10 mg) 
are manufactured by the same manufacturer at the same manufacturing site using the same 
manufacturing process, have the same qualitative composition. Furthermore, both strengths are direct 
scale up/scale down formulations and the ratio between the amounts of each excipient to the amount of 
the active substance is the same for both the strengths. 
In order to demonstrate that both strengths exhibit similar in vitro performance, dissolution profiles of 
Ambrisentan 5 mg and 10 mg film-coated tablets (manufactured by Mylan Laboratories Limited, Nashik, 
India), were generated in different dissolution media i.e. 0.05M acetate buffer, pH 5.0 (Release media), 
0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 Acetate buffer and pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer, covering the pH range of pH 1.2 to pH 6.8. 
The similarity factor (F2 value) between the test product used in bioequivalence study, Ambrisentan 
Mylan 10mg, and the other strength of the test product, Ambrisentan Mylan 5mg in 0.1N HCl was found 
to be greater than 50 (81.49). More than 85% of the labeled amount of the drug is released within 15 
minutes from both strengths tested in pH 4.5 Acetate buffer and pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer. Thus 
acccording to the applicant the dissolution profiles could be considered similar. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 14/25 
 
 
 
However, the CHMP noted that the rotation speed used was 75rpm instead of the recommneded 50rpm in 
the BE Guideline. As this could have resulted in a rapid drug release, and thus a reduced discriminating 
power of the dissolution test, the applicant was requested to carry out appropriate dissolution tests of 
both strengths and  submit the relevant dissolution data in all dissolution media (pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8) 
using the apparatus II-paddle at the rotation speed of 50rpm. These were provided by the applicant,  and 
the F2 values between both strengths  tested in 0.1N HCl  and pH 4.5 Acetate buffer  were found to be 
greater than 50 (53.79 and 56.64 respectively). More than 85% of the labeled amount of the drug is 
released within 15 minutes from both products tested in 0.05M acetate buffer pH 5.0 and pH 6.8 
Phosphate buffer. Thus the dissolution profiles can be considered similar without further mathematical 
calculations 
The applicant also noted that the absorption kinetics of ambrisentan is  linear within the therapeutic dose 
range, as stated in the SmPC of the referecne product, and therefore one bioequivalence study performed 
on 10 mg strength would allow the in vivo performance to be extended to 5 mg strength.  
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted a bioequivalence study.  
Table 1. Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 15/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study C17139: An open-label, balanced, randomized, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single 
dose, crossover, oral bioequivalence study of Ambrisentan Tablets 10 mg of Mylan Laboratories Limited, 
India with Volibris (Ambrisentan) film-coated tablets 10 mg of Glaxo Group Ltd 980 Great West Road 
Brentford Middlesex TW8 9GS United Kingdom in normal healthy adult male human subjects under 
fasting conditions. 
Methods 
Study design  
The study was an open-label, randomized, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single-dose, 
crossover oral bioequivalence study in normal healthy adult male human subjects under fasting 
conditions. 
Allocation of treatment sequence for each subject in each study period was carried out as per the 
randomization schedule. 
In each period, all subjects had fasted overnight for at least 10.00 hours prior to dosing till at least 04.00 
hours after dosing. In each study period, a single oral dose of either test product (T) or reference product 
(R) were administered orally to the subjects in sitting posture with 240 mL of water at ambient 
temperature on the day of dosing as per the randomization schedule.  
Serial blood sampling from pre-dose 0.00 hour (within 1.50 hour prior to drug administration) up to 
post-dose 72.00 hours (after drug administration) was collected in each period.  
The total duration of the study was 12 days from period-1 check-in till the last blood sample collection of 
period-2 including a washout period of 07 days between each dosing. 
Test and reference products  
Table 2. Test and reference product information in Study C17139 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 16/25 
 
 
 
 
Population studied 
From the eligible volunteers reported to the facility for participation in the study, 36 subjects were 
enrolled into the study. Two additional subjects (standby-I & standby-II) were enrolled in the study to 
compensate any dropout/withdrawn prior to dosing in period-1. 
The disposition of the subjects in the study is depicted in Figure 4.  
Figure 2. Disposition of subjects in Study C17139 
Subjects were included based on the following criteria: 
•  Normal healthy male adult human subjects, aged between 18 to 45 years (inclusive of both) 
•  Body mass index of ≥18.5 kg/m2 and ≤ 30.0 kg/m2 and weight ≥ 50.00 kg with hemoglobin 
levels ≥ 12 g/dL. 
•  Healthy according to the laboratory results and physical examination, performed within 21 days 
prior to the commencement of the dosing in Period-1. 
•  Subject whose clinical laboratory values are within normal limits or clinically insignificant as 
determined by physician or principal investigator to be of no clinical significance. 
•  Had normal ECG, Chest X-ray and vital signs 
•  Non-smokers and Non-alcoholics 
•  Subject able to communicate effectively and provide written informed consent. 
•  Willing to avoid sexual contact during the study including the washout period. 
•  Subject willing to adhere to protocol requirements as evidenced by written informed consent 
approved by an Independent Ethics Committee (IEC). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 17/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects were excluded based on the following criteria: 
•  Any history of allergy or hypersensitivity to Ambrisentan, to soya, or to any of the excipients 
and/or related products. 
• 
Positive test result for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs Ag), hepatitis C virus antibody (HCV Ab) 
or HIV-1 antibody or HIV Type 2 (HIV-2) antibody (HIV Ab) or VDRL / syphilis. 
The study drug is contraindicated for medical reasons (as stated in protocol). 
• 
•  Any history or presence of significant cardiovascular, pulmonary, hepatic, renal, gastrointestinal, 
endocrine, dermatological, neurological, psychiatric diseases or disorders. 
•  History or presence of drug abuse in the past one year. 
•  Difficulty in swallowing tablets or capsules. 
•  Any history of difficulty in donating blood. 
•  Has clinically significant abnormal values of laboratory parameters. 
•  Blood pressure is < 100/60 and > 140/90 millimeters of mercury (Systolic blood pressure/ 
Diastolic blood pressure). 
Pulse rate less than 60 beats / minute and more than 100 beats / minute. 
• 
•  Usage of any prescribed medication during last 14 days and for OTC medicinal products, herbal 
products during the last 7 days preceding the first dosing. 
•  Any clinically significant illness during 3 months before screening. 
• 
•  Consideration by the investigator, for any reason that the subject is an unsuitable candidate to 
Participation in a drug research study/donation of blood within past 90 days. 
receive study drug. 
Analytical methods 
The plasma samples of subjects were analyzed using LC/MS/MS method for Ambrisentan in Human 
Plasma using High Performance Liquid Chromatography Method with Tandem mass spectrometry over a 
Concentration range of 9.974 to 1595.838 ng/mL. The analytical method was developed and validated 
over a concentration range of 10.024 to 1603.814 ng/mL at the Bioanalytical laboratory of CRC, Mylan 
Laboratories Ltd. 
A validation report of the analytical method entitled: "Determination of Ambrisentan in Human Plasma 
using Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography Method with Tandem Mass Spectrometry "was submitted 
by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
As the objective of the study was to compare and evaluate the bioequivalence and characterize the 
pharmacokinetic profile of the test and reference formulations of Ambrisentan Tablets 10 mg to assess its 
bioequivalence and the following primary pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated: 
Primary Variables: Cmax and AUC0-t 
Secondary Variables: AUC0-inf, Tmax , T1/2, Kel and AUC_%Extrap_obs 
Statistical methods 
For pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis, actual time of blood sample collection was used for 
estimation of pharmacokinetic parameters, which was computed using non-compartmental model of 
Phoenix WinNonlin version 6.3. 
Statistical analysis was performed on the data obtained assaying the ambrisentan concentration in the 
plasma samples collected, using SASR Software (Version 9.2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 18/25 
 
 
 
Descriptive statistics of all the primary pharmacokinetic parameters were computed and reported for 
ambrisentan. The ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax AUC0-t and AUC0-inf for 
ambrisentan were subjected to Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). ANOVA model was included Sequence, 
Formulation, Period and Subject (Sequence) as fixed effects. Sequence effect was tested using Subject 
(Sequence) as error term. 
An F-test was performed to determine the statistical significance of the Formulation and Period effects 
involved in the model at a significance level of 5% (alpha= 0.05) and Sequence effect involved in the 
model at a significance level of 10% (alpha= 0.10). 
Determination of sample size 
The maximum observed intra-subject variability for Ambrisentan among primary pharmacokinetic 
parameters (Cmax) was found to be 22%. Hence, considering the CV of 23% the following estimates were 
considered for the computation of sample size: 
T/R ratio (expected between) = 95-105.3% 
Intra-Subject C.V (%) = 23% 
Significance Level = 5% 
Power = >90% 
Bioequivalence Limit=80-125.00% 
Based on the above estimates, a sample size of 32 subjects would be sufficient to establish 
bioequivalence between formulations with adequate power. To account for withdrawals and dropouts due 
to adverse events or non-compliance or due to personal reasons 36 subjects were randomized and dosed. 
Results 
Table 3. Pharmacokinetic parameters for Ambrisentan (non-transformed Mean values, Study C17139) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
Reference  
arithmetic 
SD 
arithmetic 
SD 
mean 
mean 
AUC(0-72h)  
AUC(0-∞)  
Cmax  
Tmax* 
8624.866 
1740.403
8688.705 
1967.4531 
6 
8904.053 
1764.156
9002.069 
1991.2844 
1 
1313.281 
236.5773  1293.649 
271.4848 
1.25 
(0.50-4.00) 
1.25 (0.75-3.50) 
AUC 0-72h                      area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 hours post dose 
AUC 0-∞    
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
C max  
T max  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 19/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Summary Statistics of Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ambrisentan for Test Product (T) and 
Reference Product (R) are presented in Table 8. 
Table 4. Statistical analysis for Ambrisentan (ln-transformed values, Study C17139) 
Safety data 
Thirty six (36) subjects in period-1 and Thirty five (35) subjects in period-2 were administered with the 
study drug on 03 Aug 2017 and 10 Aug 2017 respectively with a washout period of 07 days between the 
dosing days as per the randomization schedule. 
No AE’s were reported during the study and in post study safety assessment. No SAEs and deaths were 
reported during the study and in post study safety assessment. 
Additional safety data were submitted from two additional bioequivalence studies conducted for 
submissions to other regulatory authorities. In the first one (34 participants), four adverse events were 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 20/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reported and all of them were possibly related to the study drug. Two adverse events were reported for 
one subject (increased eosinophils, increased ABS (eosinophils)) and two adverse events for another 
subject (increased SGOT, increased SGPT).  
In the second BE study (48 participants) ten 10 AEs reported by six subjects over the course of the study. 
There was only one (1) AE (Headache) that was considered possibly related to the oral administration of 
Ambrisentan Mylan Tablets 10 mg.  
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Ambrisentan Mylan is considered bioequivalent with 
Volibris. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
This is a generic application for the marketing authorisation of Ambrisentan 5 and 10 mg tablets which 
was supported by one bioequivalence study. 
With regard to the bioequivalence study submitted by the Applicant, selection of PK parameters, 
determination of sample size, statistical evaluation of the PK parameters and the acceptance ranges for 
bioequivalence are in accordance with the bioequivalence guideline (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 
Cor**). The statistical methods chosen were considered appropriate. 
Median range of the observed tmax was comparable between the two treatments.  The t1/2 was also 
similar between the two treatments (9.53 hours for Ambrisentan Mylan and 9.75 hours for Volibris). 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Ambrisentan 10 mg tablets are considered bioequivalent 
with Volibris 10 mg tablets. 
The applicant also requested a waiver for the in vivo bioequivalence study for the lowest strength of 5mg.  
The two pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturing process, the qualitative 
composition of the different strengths is the same and the composition of the strengths are quantitatively 
proportional. The applicant also provided data for the two different srengths, which demonstrated that 
their corresponding dissolution profiles were similar in all  dissolution media. Therefore, the request for 
waiver of the bio-study on the 5 mg was accepted by the CHMP.  
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The application contains an adequate review of published clinical data and bioequivalence has been shown 
between Ambrisentan Mylan and Volibris 10 mg tablets based on the presented bioequivalence study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 21/25 
 
 
 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important 
• 
Teratogenicity 
identified risks 
•  Decreased haemoglobin, haematocrit, anaemia 
including anaemia requiring transfusion  
•  Hepatotoxicity 
• 
Testicular tubular atrophy/male infertility  
None 
Important 
potential risks 
Missing 
information 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine pharmacovigilance activities are sufficient to characterise the risks associated with ambrisentan 
use.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Teratogenicity 
Routine risk minimization measures in SmPC 
sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.6 and 5.3 and PL 
section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational materials (Patient Reminder Card). 
Decreased haemoglobin, 
Routine risk minimization measures in SmPC 
haematocrit, anaemia 
sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 and PL sections 2 and 
including anaemia 
4  
requiring transfusion 
Hepatotoxicity  
Routine risk minimization measures in sections 
4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC and 
sections 2 and 4 of the PL  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials (Patient Reminder Card). 
Testicular tubular 
Routine risk minimization measures in sections 
atrophy/male infertility 
4.6 and 5.3 of the SmPC and section 2 of the PL  
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.4 is acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 22/25 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of ambrisentan tablets. The reference product, Volibris, is 
indicated for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adult patients of WHO Functional 
Class (FC) II to III, including use in combination treatment. No nonclinical studies have been provided for 
this application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance 
was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain 
new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active 
substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published 
literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with an open-label, randomized, two-treatment, 
two-period, two-sequence, single-dose, crossover design in normal healthy adult male human subjects 
under fasting conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of 
this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling 
points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was 
validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Ambrisentan Mylan met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Volibris. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters 
AUC0-t,, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 
80.00 to 125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Ambrisentan Mylan is favourable in the following indication: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 23/25 
 
 
 
for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adult patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) 
II to III, including use in combination treatment. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to use of Ambrisentan in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree 
the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution 
modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Ambrisentan Mylan is marketed, all patients who 
are expected to use Ambrisentan Mylan are provided with the following educational material: 
• 
• 
Patient reminder card 
Patient reminder card should include the following key elements: 
o  That Ambrisentan Mylan is teratogenic in animals; 
o  That pregnant women must not take Ambrisentan Mylan; 
o  That women of reproductive potential must use effective contraception; 
o  The need for monthly pregnancy tests; 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
o  The need for regular monitoring of liver function because Ambrisentan Mylan may cause 
liver injury. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/294468/2019  
Page 25/25 
 
 
 
