20 October 2011 
EMA/CHMP/484377/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Ameluz 
International non-proprietary name: 5-aminolaevulinic acid  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002204 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Ameluz 
Applicant: 
Biofrontera Bioscience GmbH 
Hemmelrather Weg 201  
D-51377 Leverkusen 
Germany 
Active substance: 
5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride   
International Non-proprietary 
Name/Common Name: 
5-aminolaevulinic acid  
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Sensitizers used in photodynamic/radiation therapy  
(L01XD04) 
Therapeutic indication: 
Treatment of actinic keratosis of mild to moderate 
intensity on the face and scalp (Olsen grade 1 to 2; 
see section 5.1) 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Gel 
Strength: 
78 mg/g  
Route of administration: 
Cutaneous use 
Packaging: 
Package size: 
tube (alu) 
1 tube  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 2/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
Background information on the procedure
1. 
............................................ 6 
1.1 Submission of the dossier..................................................................................... 6 
1.2 Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
Scientific discussion
2. 
.............................................................................. 7 
2.1 Introduction ....................................................................................................... 7 
2.2 Quality aspects ................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1 Introduction .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2 Active Substance.............................................................................................. 9 
2.2.3 Finished Medicinal Product ............................................................................... 11 
2.2.4 Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 14 
2.2.5 Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6 Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 14 
2.3 Non-clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 14 
2.3.1 Introduction .................................................................................................. 14 
2.3.2 Pharmacology ................................................................................................ 15 
2.3.3 Pharmacokinetics ........................................................................................... 18 
2.3.4 Toxicology ..................................................................................................... 19 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 23 
2.3.6. Discussion and conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ......................................... 23 
2.4 Clinical aspects ................................................................................................. 24 
2.4.1 Introduction .................................................................................................. 24 
2.4.2 Pharmacokinetics ........................................................................................... 25 
2.4.3 Pharmacodynamics ......................................................................................... 26 
2.4.4 Discussion and conclusions on clinical pharmacology ........................................... 26 
2.5 Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................. 26 
2.5.1 Dose response study....................................................................................... 27 
2.5.2 Main studies .................................................................................................. 28 
2.5.3 Discussion on clinical efficacy ........................................................................... 43 
2.5.4 Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 43 
2.6 Clinical safety ................................................................................................... 43 
2.6.1 Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................. 52 
2.6.2 Conclusions on the clinical safety ...................................................................... 53 
2.7 Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 53 
2.8 User consultation .............................................................................................. 54 
3. 
4. 
Benefit-Risk Balance
........................................................................... 55 
Recommendations
............................................................................... 56 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
percent 
infinity 
                       singlet oxygen 
                       Good Laboratory Practice 
5-fluorouracil 
alternative hypothesis 
actinic keratosis 
5-aminolaevulinic acid 
body mass index 
chi square 
Caucasian 
complete clinical clearance rate 
confidence interval 
centimetre 
square centimetre 
Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
clearance rate 
Ethics committee 
for example 
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
women 
full-analysis set 
gram 
microgram 
Good Clinical Practice 
%  
∞  
1O2  
5-FU  
A1  
AE                                          adverse event 
AK  
ALA  
ALAD                                      aminolaevulinic acid dehydratase 
ATP                                        adenosine triphosphate 
BMI 
χ2  
C  
CCCR    
CI  
cm  
cm2  
CHMP    
CR  
EC 
e.g. exempli gratia,  
EMA        
EU  
F  
FAS  
g  
μg  
GCP 
GLP  
H 
H0  
H1  
HIV  
ICH  
i.e.  
ITT 
J  
kg  
LOCF                                      last observation carried forward  
M  
m2  
mm  
mm2  
MAL  
MedDRA  
mg  
μg  
mL  
mW 
n  
N/A  
nm  
OR  
P  
PBG                                        porpobilinogen 
PDT  
PK                                          pharmacokinetics 
PP 
PpIX 
r  
square millimetre 
methyl-aminolaevulinic acid 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
milligram 
microgram 
millilitre 
milliwatt 
number 
not applicable 
nanometre 
odds ratio 
probability 
hour 
null hypothesis 
(alternative) hypothesis 
Human immunodeficiency virus 
International Conference on Harmonization 
id est,   that is 
intent-to-treat 
Joule 
kilogram 
per-protocol 
protoporphyrin IX 
randomized 
                              millimetre 
men 
square meter 
photodynamic therapy 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectively 
                              reactive oxygen species 
second 
squamous cell carcinoma 
standard deviation 
solar keratosis 
Resp 
ROS  
sec  
SCC  
SD 
SK 
SmPC   
Target area A 
Target area B 
TEAE                                       treatment emergent adverse event 
unit 
U  
UV                                          ultraviolet 
vs.  
                       Summary of Product Characteristics 
face and forehead 
bald scalp 
versus, as opposed to 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1 Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Biofrontera  Bioscience  GmbH  submitted  on  2  September  2010  an  application  for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ameluz, through the centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (2)  (b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 September 2008. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3(2)  (b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on  demonstration  of 
significant technical innovation.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: treatment of actinic keratosis of mild to moderate 
intensity on the face and scalp (Olsen grade 1 to 2). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/157/2009 on the granting of a (product-specific) waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/57
 
 
 
1.2 Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Harald Enzmann  
Co-Rapporteur: Patrick Salmon 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 2 September 2010. 
The procedure started on 22 September 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 December 
2010. The Co-Reporter’s first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 
December 2010.   
  During the meeting on 17-20 January 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 21 
January 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 6 July 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 21 July 2011, the CHMP agreed on a List of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 19 September 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 6 October 2011. 
  During the meeting on 17-20 October 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Ameluz on 20 October 2011.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1 Introduction 
Problem statement 
Actinic keratosis (AK) is an ultraviolet-light-induced lesion of the skin that may progress to invasive 
squamous cell carcinoma (Glogau, 2000). It is the most common lesion with malignant potential to 
arise on the skin. AK is mostly seen in fair-skinned persons on skin areas that have had long-term sun 
exposure (Salasche, 2000). 
Epidemiological data show a high occurrence rate of AK.  Regions with higher ultraviolet exposure have 
a higher prevalence of AK. In Europe, a prevalence of 15% in men and 6% in women has been 
documented. Over the age of 70 years, 34% of men and 18% of women were found to have AK 
(Memon et al., 2000). 
An AK may regress, persist unchanged, or progress to invasive squamous cell carcinoma. The actual 
percentage that progress to invasive SCC remains unknown, and estimates vary from 5% to 20% 
within 10 to 25 years with reported annual transformation rate ranging widely from as low as 0.25% to 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/57
 
 
 
 
as high as 16% (Braathen et al., 2007). Furthermore, predicting which course each individual lesion 
will follow is impossible. 
AK treatment options belong to 2 broad categories: surgical destruction of the lesions (e.g. using 
cryosurgery or curettage with or without electrosurgery) and medical therapy. Medicinal products 
approved in the EU include 5-fluorouracil cream, imiquimod cream, diclofenac gel, and photodynamic 
therapy (PDT) with 5-aminolaevulinic acid (ALA) or methyl-aminolaevulinic acid (MAL).  
Two products containing ALA or ALA derivates have been available since several years. The two ALA-
PDT products use different ways to address the problem around the inherent instability of ALA in 
aqueous formulations. Levulan is provided as a 2-component system to be mixed immediately before 
use, ALAcare takes advantage of the attachment of solid ALA crystals to the plaster (Hauschild et al., 
2009) and Metvix uses the more stable methyl-ester derivative MAL. 
A second drawback is the fact that ALA is a dipolar ion at physiologic pH with low lipid solubility and 
limited ability to penetrate the stratum corneum. The use of more lipophilic ALA derivatives such as 
MAL is an attempt to overcome this problem, but skin penetration is only improved with esters with an 
even higher number of carbon ions (≥C4). Short-chained ALA-esters (C1-C3) induced 5 to 10 times 
lower PpIX accumulation than ALA as shown in several cell lines (Gaullier et al., 1997).  
The rationale to develop Ameluz was to provide a novel ALA formulation for PDT which increases the 
stability of the active ingredient and improves the delivery of the active ingredient into the target cells 
of the AK lesions within the epidermis. 
About the product 
Ameluz  (known  as  BF-200  ALA)  is  a  gel  formulation  containing  ALA  in  a  nanoemulsion  developed  for 
topical  treatment  of  actinic  AK  in  combination  with  PDT.  The  nanoemulsion  formulation  provides 
chemical stabilization of ALA and enhances its penetration into the epidermis.  
Following topical application of 5-aminolaevulinic acid, the substance is metabolized to protoporphyrin 
IX,  a  photoactive  compound  which  accumulates  intracellularly  in  the  treated  actinic  keratosis  lesions. 
Protoporphyrin IX is activated by illumination with red light of a suitable wavelength and energy. In the 
presence  of  oxygen,  reactive  oxygen  species  are  formed.  The  latter  causes  damage  of  cellular 
components and eventually destroys the target cells.  
The Applicant applied for the indication: Treatment of actinic keratosis of mild to moderate intensity on 
the face and scalp (Olsen grade 1 to 2). The finally approved indication was: Treatment of actinic 
keratosis of mild to moderate intensity on the face and scalp (Olsen grade 1 to 2; see section 5.1 of 
the SmPC).  
The gel should cover the lesions and approximately 5 mm of the surrounding area with a film of about 
1 mm thickness. The entire treatment area will be illuminated with a red light source, either with a 
narrow spectrum around 630 nm and a light dose of approximately 37 J/cm2
continuous spectrum in the range between 570 and 670 nm with a light dose between 75 and 
200 J/cm2. 
 or a broader and 
One session of photodynamic therapy should be administered for single or multiple lesions. Actinic 
keratosis lesions should be evaluated three months after treatment. Non- or partially responding 
lesions should be re-treated in a second session. The gel should cover the lesions and approximately 
5 mm of the surrounding area with a film of about 1 mm thickness. The entire treatment area will be 
illuminated with a red light source, either with a narrow spectrum around 630 nm and a light dose of 
approximately 37 J/cm2
with a light dose between 75 and 200 J/cm2.  It is important to ensure that the correct light dose is 
 or a broader and continuous spectrum in the range between 570 and 670 nm 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 8/57
 
 
 
administered. The light dose is determined by factors such as the size of the light field, the distance 
between lamp and skin surface, and the illumination time. These factors vary with lamp type. The light 
dose delivered should be monitored if a suitable detector is available.  
Before administration of Ameluz scales and crusts should be removed accurately. In addition, all lesion 
surfaces should be roughened gently. Care should be taken to avoid bleeding. Thereafter, all lesions 
should be carefully wiped-off with an ethanol or isopropanol-soaked cotton pad to ascertain degreasing 
of the skin.  
Ameluz should be applied to the entire lesion area using glove protected fingertips or a spatula. The 
gel can be administered to healthy skin around the lesions, whereas application near the eyes, nostrils, 
mouth, ears or mucosa should be avoided (keep a distance of 1 cm). Direct contact of Ameluz with the 
eyes or mucous membrane should be avoided. In case of accidental contact, rinsing with water is 
recommended. The gel should be allowed to dry for approximately 10 minutes, before an occlusive 
light-tight dressing is placed over the treatment site. Following 3 hours of incubation, the dressing 
should be removed and the remnant gel wiped off. 
Immediately after cleaning the lesions, the entire treatment area will be illuminated with a red light 
source. During illumination the lamp should be fixed at the distance from the skin surface that is 
indicated in the user manual. A narrow spectrum lamp is recommended to achieve higher clearance 
rates. Symptomatic treatment of transient adverse site reactions may be considered. A broader and 
continuous spectrum may be used if narrow-spectrum light sources are not tolerated. 
Lesions should be re-assessed after three months, at which point any residual lesions may be retreated. 
2.2 Quality aspects 
2.2.1 Introduction 
Ameluz 78mg/g is a gel for cutaneous use, presented in a 2g tube, for the photodynamic treatment of 
actinic keratosis of mild to moderate intensity on the face and scalp. The active substance, is 5-
aminolaevulinic acid (as 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride), which is of synthetic chemical origin.  
Ameluz is a white to yellowish gel containing 78mg/g of 5-aminolaevulinic acid (as hydrochloride) filled 
in aluminium tubes with epoxyphenol inner lacquer and a latex seal and a screw cap of high density 
polyethylene. 
The excipients used in the preparation of Ameluz are xanthan gum, soybean phosphatidylcholine, 
polysorbate 80, medium-chain triglycerides, isopropyl alcohol, disodium phosphate dihydrate, sodium 
dihydrogen phosphate dihydrate, propylene glycol, sodium benzoate and purified water. 
The gel is intended to be applied to prepared skin lesions and covered with an occlusive dressing to aid 
absorption. The gel contains an o/w nanoemulsion which enhances skin penetration of the active 
substance. The active substance is metabolised within the dermis to protoporphyrin IX which 
accumulates intracellularly within the actinic keratosis lesion. The photoactive protoporphyrin IX is then 
activated by a defined CE-marked red-light source to produce reactive oxygen species which destroy 
the target cells to produce the required effect. 
2.2.2 Active Substance 
The active substance is 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride, an achiral substance which is crystalline 
and readily soluble in water, ethanol and dimethylformamide. The active substance is not covered by a 
pharmacopoeial monograph. The figure below shows the chemical structure of 5-aminolaevulinic acid 
hydrochloride. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/57
 
 
 
O
H2N
OH
O
· HCl
The octanol/water partition coefficient (P) illustrates the hydrophile/lipophile balance of 5-
aminolaevulinic acid and has been experimentally determined as 0.03. The log P value is -1.5. No 
specific permeability studies have been carried out for 5-aminolaevulinic acid, however, the partition 
coefficient between the stratum corneum and water (KSC/W) was determined to be 0.04 (log KSC/W -
1.37). The partition coefficient and corresponding log P values determined for 5-aminolaevulinic acid 
for octanol/water and stratum corneum/water reflect the high water solubility of 5-aminolaevulinic 
acid.  
Manufacture 
5-Aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride is manufactured in two steps from 5N-(phthaloyl) amino-
laevulinic acid methyl ester, consisting of ester hydrolysis and recrystalllisation of crude 5-
aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride. A description of the manufacture and a list of materials used for 
manufacture of 5N-(phthaloyl)amino-laevulinic acid methyl ester as well as the specification of 
laevulinic acid and the intermediate of the synthesis of 5N-(phthaloyl)amino-laevulinic acid methyl 
ester have been provided,  the starting material should be redefined. A request has been included in 
the list of recommendations.  
Details on the control of the materials used, both for manufacture of 5N-(phthaloyl)amino-laevulinic 
acid methyl ester and the final active substance, including specifications for raw materials and details 
and justification of the control of the starting material including analytical methods and validation were 
satisfactorily provided. Details were also provided on critical in-process tests during manufacture 
together with control limits during manufacture and validation of analytical methods.  
The results from 1H-NMR and 13C-NMR spectra, elemental analysis and the mass spectrum are 
consistent with the structure of the active substance. 
Synthesis related impurities, degradation pathways and residual solvents were satisfactorily presented. 
Batch results were presented for six production scale batches and one pilot scale batch. All batch 
results are in accordance with the specification of 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride.  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description (visual examination), identification (IR 
spectroscopy, HPLC, test on chloride and melting point), assay (HPLC and argentometric), related 
substances (HPLC), water content (Karl Fisher), loss on drying (Ph.Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur.) and 
residual solvents (GC).  
The specification was found to be justified. Impurities have been evaluated and found to be acceptable 
from the point of view of safety. However, based on batch data results, the limit for the sum of total 
impurities should be further tightened once further batch experience is gained. This request is included 
in the list of recommendations. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/57
 
  
 
 
 
 
All analytical procedures of the active substance were described and were generally sufficiently 
validated. However, a request for a full validation of the HPLC method applied for the control of 
impurities in the starting material, 5N-(phthaloyl) amino-laevulinic acid methyl ester,  is included in the 
list of recommendations.  
The finished product manufacturer controls the active substance according to the specification and 
analytical procedures of the active substance manufacturer. 
Validation in line with ICH requirements has been carried out for the HPLC method. The validation 
included specificity for impurities from the active substance specification and those arising in the active 
substance starting material.  The HPLC method was found to be stability indicating as it is able to 
detect impurities arising out of forced degradation. Range, linearity and accuracy have been 
determined for the active and specified impurities of the active substance specification. The ranges 
studied are appropriate for assay and known impurities respectively.  Linearity, accuracy and 
repeatability of the assay of 5-aminolaevulinic acid were validated from 80 to 120% of label claim. 
Intermediate precision was verified at 100% of the active substance.  
Batch analytical data provided on six production scale batches demonstrated compliance with the 
specification and showed the active to be of good quality. 
Impurities have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
The reference standards for 5-aminolaevulinic acid were presented in adequate detail. Identity and 
purity of the impurity reference standards were sufficiently characterized. There is a remaining point 
for clarification regarding standards for two unspecified impurities which is included in the list of 
recommendations.  
Stability 
Long-term stability studies at -15°C, at 5°C and at 25 °C / 60% RH were performed on three 
production scale batches for 36 months. Storage at 40°C/75% RH (accelerated conditions) for 12 
months led to discoloration of the active substance and to out of specification results of related 
substances.  
The stability studies showed that the active substance is stable when stored in a freezer and confirm 
the proposed re-test period. 
Comparability exercise for Active Substance 
Not applicable. 
 2.2.3 Finished Medicinal Product 
Ameluz is a non-sterile gel formulation for the topical treatment of actinic keratosis lesions. It is 
presented in aluminium tubes with epoxyphenol inner lacquer and latex seals which are closed with 
screw caps made of high density polyethylene. The product is intended for single use and each tube 
contains 2g of gel.  Ameluz 78mg/g gel contains 7.8% of 5-aminolaevulinic acid which is equivalent to 
10% of 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride salt. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The active substance is hydrophilic, unstable in aqueous solutions and has limited ability to penetrate 
the outer epidermal layer (stratum corneum) which is more permeable for lipophilic compounds. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/57
 
 
 
The objective of the pharmaceutical development was to provide a novel formulation of 5-
aminolaevulinic acid, which increases the stability and improves the delivery of the active substance 
through the stratum corneum and into the target cells of the lesions of actinic keratosis within the 
epidermis. 
A gel formulation was selected, containing a nanoscale oil in water emulsion. Soybean 
phosphatidylcholine-containing nanoemulsions are able to stabilize 5-aminolaevulinic acid in the gel, 
significantly contributes to the enhancement of the permeation of 5-aminolaevulinic acid through the 
skin. Soybean-derived phospholipids have high affinities to epidermal tissue and change the skin lipid 
fluidity leading to enhanced percutaneous drug absorption. Therefore, it is possible to reduce the 
concentration of the active ingredient, while maintaining an efficient uptake of the active substance 
into neoplastic cells.  
The data submitted suggested that 5-aminolaevulinic acid is not included in the nanoemulsion core. 5-
Aminolaevulinic acid is a strongly hydrophilic molecule. Therefore, it is not expected that 5-
aminolaevulinic acid is included in the core of the nanoemulsion. Further, indirect evidence is provided 
by the cell culture experiments, which have shown that the uptake of 5-aminolaevulinic acid in cell 
culture is also increased when the nanoemulsion and 5-aminolaevulinic acid are added successively, 
indicating that the effect is not the consequence of a direct interaction of the nanoemulsion and 5-
aminolaevulinic acid. 
The excipients used in the preparation of Ameluz are xanthan gum (gel forming agent), soybean 
phosphatidylcholine (surfactant), polysorbate 80 (co-surfactant), medium-chain triglycerides (lipid 
core), isopropyl alcohol (solvent), disodium phosphate dehydrate (buffering agent), sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate dehydrate (buffering agent), propylene glycol (solvent), sodium benzoate (preservative) 
and purified water (solvent). All excipients are of Ph. Eur. quality with exception of soybean 
phosphatidylcholine which is controlled for identity, purity and assay with an in-house monograph. 
The antimicrobial effectiveness of the preservative has been confirmed and complies with Ph. Eur. 
5.1.3 criteria A. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients used in the formulation of Ameluz are of animal origin.  
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process of Ameluz comprises (1) preparation of an aqueous buffer phase, (2) 
preparation of the gel phase, (3) preparation of the nanoemulsion, (4) preparation of the bulk product 
by adding the preservative, the active substance and the gel phase, (5) filling into aluminium tubes 
and secondary packaging.  
The critical quality attributes of the drug product appear to be the particle size and viscosity. The 
physico-chemical characterization of the drug product, including characterization of the particle size 
distribution by photon correlation spectroscopy and electron microscopy, has been sufficiently detailed.  
There are several in process controls such as determination of the pH of the buffer, viscosity of the gel 
phase, pH, particle size and size distribution of the nanoemulsion and the bulk product, check of the fill 
weight at the end of the filling operation. All parameters of the release specification were analysed. 
The results indicated homogeneity of macroscopic appearance, pH, viscosity, assay of active 
substance, content of preservative, related substances (specified impurities below 0.1%, unspecified 
impurities at or below 0.1%, respectively), microbial purity and filling weight. Intra-batch homogeneity 
of the nanoparticle size distribution has been confirmed on a fourth process validation batch. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/57
 
 
 
Nonetheless, further data should be generated documenting intra-batch homogeneity with regard to 
the particle size of the nanovesicles for the first two batches to be manufactured after granting of the 
marketing authorisation. This request is included in the list of recommendations. 
Three full scale batches were manufactured using the same manufacturing facilities, manufacturing 
process and same equipment as the batches intended for marketing. The batches fully met the quality 
control specifications, and results of IPC and additional testing show that the manufacturing process is 
robust. Each of the drug product batches was manufactured with a different batch of the drug 
substance. Therefore it can be concluded that the batches can be manufactured reproducibly at 
commercial scale. 
Product specification 
The specification for Ameluz includes tests for appearance (visual examination), identification of 5-
aminolaevulinic acid (HPLC and TLC), identification of sodium benzoate (HPLC), assay of 5-
aminolaevulinic acid and sodium benzoate (HPLC), extractable mass, pH (Ph.Eur.), viscosity 
(vibroviscosimetry), particle size (laser light scattering), related substances (HPLC-MS) and microbial 
purity (Ph.Eur.). 
The release and shelf-life specification for the drug product were found to be justified. However, based 
on batch data results, the limit for the sum of total impurities should be further tightened in line with 
long term stability results. In addition, the shelf life limit for a specified impurity should be tightened 
when further batch data become available. These requests are included in the list of recommendations.  
All methods have been satisfactorily validated. The HPLC method has been validated for specificity, 
linearity, range, accuracy, intermediate precision and robustness. The validation data demonstrated 
that the method is suitable for the identification and assay test of 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride. 
For methods described in the Ph. Eur. validation was deemed to be unnecessary. The microbial purity 
of the drug product was compliant with Ph. Eur. requirements for preparations for cutaneous use.  
Stability of the product 
The stability of the drug product has been investigated with three production scale batches from the 
manufacturer proposed for marketing. The batches were stored in the packaging as proposed for 
manufacture in accordance with the requirements of the ICH stability guideline ICH Q1A (R2).  Long-
term stability data (5°C) for 24 months showed no significant change in the product quality. Storage at 
25°C, 30°C and 40°C resulted in out of specification results.   
The stability results support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC 
Comparability Exercise for Finished Medicinal Drug Product  
Not applicable 
GMO 
Not applicable 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/57
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4 Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The excipients used in the 
preparation of the finished product and the manufacturing process selected are typical of a cutaneous 
preparation. The results of the tests indicate that the active substance and the finished product can be 
reproducibility manufactured and therefore the product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance. 
2.2.5 Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6 Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1. 
The Committee recommends to re-define the starting material further back and to implement 
the GMP requirements at an earlier stage of the synthesis of the active substance.  
2. 
The Committee recommends determining the limit of quantitation for the GC method used to 
control impurities of the redefined starting material.  
3. 
The Committee recommends that the applicant fully validates the HPLC method for control of 
impurities in the starting material, 5-N-(phthaloyl)-aminolaevulinic acid methyl ester, in accordance 
with the agreed validation plan 
4. 
The Committee recommends tightening the limit for the sum of total impurities in the active 
substance in light of further experience and based on the results obtained form batch analysis.  
5. 
The Committee recommends further verification of the purity of reference standards for 
impurities by determining their chromatographic purity.  
6. 
The Committee recommends that the applicant generate data documenting the intra-batch 
homogeneity with regard to the particle size of nanovesicles for the first two batches of the finished 
product manufactured after granting the Community marketing authorisation. 
7. 
The Committee recommends tightening the limit for the sum of total impurities in the finished 
product specification in accordance with results from the long-term stability studies at 5°C. 
8. 
The Committee recommends revision and tightening of the limit for a specified impurity in the 
finished product specification when the results from the ongoing stability program are available. 
2.3 Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1 Introduction 
In  support  of  this  application,  the  applicant  has  provided  a  literature  review  that  describes  the 
mechanism  of  action  and  activity  of  ALA  in  combination  with  PDT  as  well  as  pharmacokinetics  and 
toxicology  given  its  extensive  clinical  experience.    The  non-clinical  testing  primarily  focuses  on  the 
pharmacokinetic properties and local tolerability of the new nanoemulsion formulation. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/57
 
 
 
The  majority  of  pivotal  pharmacokinetic,  toxicology  and  local  tolerance  studies  conducted  by  the 
applicant were stated as conducted to GLP criteria.   
2.3.2 Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The  applicant  has  provided  an  overview  of  the  literature  with  respect  to  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
ALA, evidence of potential efficacy as well as known pharmacological aspects associated with ALA-PDT 
treatment.   
Low  levels  of  ALA  as  a  precursor  in  the  synthesis  of  heme  are  found  in  all  metabolically  active 
eukaryotic cells (Figure 1.) 
Figure 1: Pathway of Hemesynthesis (modified after Pang et al., 1997a) 
The biochemical pathway leading to heme synthesis involves the metabolism of ALA to protoporphyrin 
IX  (PpIX),  the  late  steps  of  which  occur  within  mitochondria.  The  administration  of  ALA  or  MAL  to 
fibroblasts  or  keratinocytes  in  vitro  or  to  mammalian  skin  in  vivo  leads  to  an  accumulation  of  PpIX. 
MAL  is  an  ALA  methyl-ester  that  is  cleaved  by  cellular  esterases,  thereby  producing  ALA.  Thus,  the 
mechanism of action of MAL is identical with that of ALA with the exception of this additional metabolic 
step.  Photodynamic  therapy  of  AK  with  ALA  or  MAL  is  based  on  the  therapeutic  use  of  phototoxic 
effects induced by the illumination of accumulated PpIX. Energy from ultraviolet or visible light is first 
absorbed via the extensive system of conjugated double bonds in PpIX, causing a shift of the molecule 
from the ground state to the extremely unstable excited state. 
The excited photosensitizer can react directly with tissue constituents (type I process) yielding direct or 
indirect cellular damage. Alternatively, cellular damage is induced through the type II process in which 
energy  is  transferred  to  molecular  oxygen  forming  highly  reactive  1O2.  The  lysis  of  intracellular 
organelles  caused  by  the  reaction  of  1O2  with  structural  proteins,  enzymes,  protein-lipids  and 
membranes, can subsequently trigger the release of inflammatory mediators and activate the classical 
complement cascade.  PpIX may progress through  multiple cycles of activation and energy transfer, a 
process that takes place in a time scale of microseconds. Since the PpIX is synthesized in mitochondria, 
the damage is mostly limited to these sites. Consequently, the damage occurs within a cell or at most 
the immediate proximity of that cell. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/57
 
 
 
 
While slightly increased PpIX formation subsequent to ALA exposure is observed in nearly all nucleated 
cells,  PpIX  accumulation  is  far  more  pronounced  (10-  to  90-fold)  in  neoplastic  cells,  leading  to  a 
marked selectivity of the damage for tumour cells.  
Since  low  levels  of  PpIX  are  present  in  every  cell,  some  ROS  are  permanently  formed  during  light 
exposure.  Such  minor  levels  are  neutralized  by  the  cell’s  antioxidant  capacity.  Based  on  cell  culture 
experiments  interstitial  threshold-concentrations  of  ALA  of  0.01-0.17  mg/mL  have  been  estimated  to 
be required to successfully eradicate lesions via the generation of PpIX in combination with illumination. 
A  complex  interaction  of  several  factors,  including  the  cellular  uptake  of  ALA  and  the  cell’s  metabolic 
activity,  may  be  involved  in  the  selectivity  of  ALA-mediated  PpIX  formation.  The  activity  of  two  key 
enzymes of the heme synthesis pathway, porphobilinogen deaminase and ferrochelatase, is changed in 
neoplastic  cells,  which  could  explain  why  PpIX  accumulates  in  tumours  and  neoplastic  lesions.  The 
tumour selectivity of PDT with ALA may furthermore be due to a lower, reduced ability of tumour cells 
to neutralize reactive oxygen or to a reduced capacity to repair the damage caused by reactive oxygen 
species. After topical application of ALA the modified stratum corneum on the skin surface of AK lesions 
may further contribute to the selectivity of the uptake in tumour cells. 
PpIX can be activated by the absorption of energy at several different wave lengths, ranging from blue 
to red light. Red light may be advantageous for the treatment of deeper lesions because of its better 
tissue penetration compared to light with shorter wave lengths. For this reason, the registered product 
Metvix is commonly used in combination with red light of a wavelength range around 630 nm or with a 
light source emitting light in the broader range between 570 and 670 nm. The same light sources have 
been chosen for the clinical use of Ameluz. 
A  photo  bleaching  effect  of  PpIX  is  observed  during  the  illumination  applied  in  PDT,  leaving  no 
detectable PpIX fluorescence within the treatment field (Kennedy et al., 1992). 
The light-induced damage triggers cell death via necrosis or apoptosis, depending on the applied doses 
and  incubation  periods.  Preneoplastic  and  neoplastic  cells  are  eliminated  and  the  epidermis  is 
regenerated  after  healing  of  the  induced  local  inflammation.  Photodynamic  damage,  occurring  mostly 
in  mitochondria,  results  in  the  loss  of  the  mitochondrial  membrane  potential  and  the  release  of 
proapoptotic factors (AIF, SMAC, cytochrome C) into the cytosol. This may trigger immediate necrotic 
cell death or the activation of caspases, resulting in apoptotic cell death. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
 
Pain during PDT 
Investigation of PDT-induced pain was studied in two experiments designed to examine the reaction to 
PDT of the two cell types involved in pain generation in the skin, namely peripheral nerve endings and 
keratinocytes.  These  studies  are  summarised  below  where  it  appears  that  PDT  pain is  caused  by  two 
mechanisms acting in parallel. 
In  a  secondary  pharmacology  study  (ALA—AK-PT022)  the  impact  of  ALA-PDT  on  cultured  dorsal  root 
gaglion  (DRG)  sensory  neurons  of  new  born  rats  has  been  examined.  The  aim  of  this  study  was  to 
characterise  the  uptake  of  ALA  or  MAL  into  sensory  neurons  and  subsequently  monitor  calcium 
transients  and  thereby  cellular  activation  following  exposure  at  an  ALA/PpIX  level  similar  to  that 
reached in the skin. 
Primary sensory neuron cultures derived from newborn rat DRG were maintained for 48 h before use in 
the  study.  Prior  to  PDT  experiments,  PpIX  formation  was  confirmed  photometrically  (excitation:  390 
nm,  emission:  620  nm)  in  methanol:  dose-dependent increase  in  ALA-derived  PpIX  was  confirmed  in 
cell culture lysates as well as in single cells, including neurons, Schwann cells and fibroblasts. Studies 
disclosed  sensory  neurons  as  the  main  contributors  of  PpIX  fluorescence.  The  effect  of  ALA-PDT  on 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 16/57
 
 
 
sensory neurons was studied by calcium imaging. After loading the cells with 1.8 mM ALA for 30 min 
and  a  further  incubation  for  PpIX  formation  for  1  h,  a  10  min  illumination  was  applied  utilizing  the 
fluorescence light source of an inverted microscope. 
Calcium  (Ca2+)  imaging  analysis  was  performed  by  microfluorimetric  measurements  of  cells 
additionally  preloaded  with  Fura-2/AM  (3  μm;  45  min).  A  10  s  pulse  of  a  depolarizing  (45  mM  KCl) 
extracellular  solution  was  added  via  the  application  system  in  order  to  verify  the  neuronal  identity  of 
the  cells  to  be  recorded  from.  Cellular  calcium  was  then  allowed  to  return  to  baseline  for  another  10 
min.  Whenever  p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone  (FCCP)  or  thapsigargin  were  used  (for  the 
depletion  of  intracellular  Ca2+  stores),  their  application  took  place  during  this  interval.  Data  set  was 
recorded  after  the  cells  had  regained  a  stable  baseline.  Then  the  illumination  program  was  started. 
Cells  were  superfused  during  illumination  either  by  standard  extracellular  buffer,  extracellular  buffer 
containing calcium channel blockers, or calcium free buffer. Afterwards, a new measurement sequence 
was initiated. The new calcium content was recorded as dataset xII.  
Illumination  induced  a  rise  in  cytosolic  calcium  in  ALA-loaded  neurons  to  a  level  comparable  to  the 
depolarizing  test  pulse,  which  is  1.53  ±  0.044  compared  to  baseline  0.29±  0.009  w/o  ALA.  Neurons 
not previously exposed to ALA showed no alteration. Pre-depletion of calcium stores in the endoplasmic 
reticulum  (ER)  by  thapsigargin  (10  μM)  did  not  alter  the  cellular  response  to  PDT,  ruling  out  the  ER 
compartment as major Ca2+ contributor.  
The  second  study  (ALA—AK-PT023)  was  performed  to  investigate  the  uptake  mechanisms  of  ALA  in 
tumours  and  healthy  keratinocytes  and  to  determine  if  ATP  is  released  from  cells  upon  ALA-PDT 
treatment  in  human.  ATP  has  been  identified  as  a  messenger  molecule  that  can  be  released  from 
keratinocytes andirritate sensory nerves. Extracellular ATP generates action potentials in the peripheral 
nerve fibers through binding to P2X receptors located on the nerve endings. Upon binding of ATP, P2X 
receptors open a cation-permeable channel, allowing sodium and calcium to flow into the cells, thereby 
depolarizing the membrane and triggering action potentials. 
A431  cells  (human  squamous  tumour  cells)  and  CCD1106KERTr  cells  (human  keratinocytes 
transformed with HPV-16 E6/E7) were preloaded with ALA ( 0, 1.8 and 6 mM) for 30 min. ATP release 
was triggered by illuminating the cells with red light for 20 min following the 4-h PpIX formation phase 
(lamp  device:  PhotoDyn  (Hydrosun);  equipped  with  a long-pass  filter  (BTE  41,  Hydrosun),  irradiation 
wavelength  of  >590  nm  with  an  average  fluence  rate  of  200  mW/cm2).  ATP  content  in  the  medium 
was measured by a commercial ATP assay (CellTiterGlo), and results are shown below (Figure 2). 
Figure 2. ATP release upon irradiation in keratinocytes 
A : A431 cells and B : CCD cells  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/57
 
 
 
 
 
ATP release was only seen after loading with 6 mM ALA, whereas the lower dose (1.8 mM ALA) was 
ineffective. Inhibition of ALA uptake by ß-alanin resulted in reduced ATP release.  
Effects observed in patients with porphyria 
Porphyria  has  been  considered  a  human  model  system  of  secondary  pharmacological  effects  possibly 
induced  by  increased  concentrations  of  ALA  or  PpIX.  In  the  various  extremes  of  porphyrias  patients 
with  increased  ALA  can  suffer  from  skin  photosensitization  with  associated  burning  and  itching  to 
neurotoxic  effects  leading  to  abdominal  pain,  peripheral  neuropathy  and  psychiatric  disturbances. 
Increased levels of PpIX have also been associated with skin photosentisation as well as more serious 
hepatic  complications.    However,  there  is  evidence,  that  the  various  clinical  findings  reported  for 
porphyria patients are not only related to high ALA or PpIX levels but rather to the sum of physiological 
changes caused by the defect in the heme pathway (Gorchein et al., 1987; Mustajoki et al., 1992).  
Normal ALA concentrations in the plasma are in the range of 24-270 nmol/L. More than 30-fold higher 
levels  of  up  to  9  and  12  μmol/L  were  reported  for  two  cases  of  acute  intermittent  porphyria  patients 
with overwhelming neuropathy.  
The sustained infusion of high doses of ALA (50-80 mg/h) to a male volunteer for over 92.5 h induced 
ALA  plasma  levels  which  are  normally  only  seen  in  porpyhria  patients  (9-12  μmol/L).  However,  no 
symptoms reported for porphyria were observed in this case (Mustajoki et al., 1992). 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No studies were submitted (see discussion of non-clinical aspects). 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were submitted (see discussion of non-clinical aspects). 
2.3.3 Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  reviewed  general  PK  from  literature,  whereas  the  new  experimental  studies  in  human 
keratinocytes  and  skin  (human  and  pig)  explants  focused  on  the  properties  of  the  new  formulation 
Ameluz with respect to ALA uptake and tissue penetration compared to MAL (Metvix). 
The  in  vitro  studies  focused  on  ALA  uptake  in  a  keratinocyte  cell  line  of  human  origin  (HaCat),  a  cell 
line  derived  from  a  human  squamous  tumour  (A431),  a  keratinocyte  cell  line  derived  from  human 
keratinocytes  transformed  with  HPV-16  E6/E7  (CCD1106KERTr),  and  primary  human  keratinocytes. 
Then,  the  influence  of  the  BF-200  nanoemulsion  on  the  cellular  uptake  of  ALA  and  the  formation  of 
PpIX  was  explored.  It  was  shown  that  the  cell  penetration  of  ALA  is  enhanced  in  the  presence  of  the 
nanoemulsion Ameluz and a time restricted influence on membrane permeability was identified. 
In ex-vivo study, pig skin explants were used to investigate the penetration behaviour of Ameluz 10% 
in  comparison  to  methyl-ALA  ester  (16%  free  acid  corresponding  to  21%  ALA  ester  hydrochloride, 
Metvix  cream)  after  topical  application.  The  aim  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  the  fluorescence 
induction  of  protoporphyrin  IX  (PpIX)  as  a  function  of  time  (0h,  3h,  5h,  8h,  and  12h).  The  study 
showed  that  PpIX  formation  was  more  rapid  and  reached  deeper  regions  of  the  epidermis  after 
application  of  Ameluz  gel  than  after  Metvix  at  any  time  point  tested.  No  PpIX  formation  was  visible 
below the basal membrane at any time point. Furthermore the fluorescence in the deeper layers of the 
epidermis  was  considerably  stronger  for  Ameluz  than  for  Metvix  cream.  The  basal  membrane  limited 
the extent of PpIX associated fluorescence so an undesirable effect and damage to dermal structures 
as a result of photoactivation of PpIX present in the dermis, and the associated risk of scarring, is not 
to be expected. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/57
 
 
 
In order to investigate the absorption and penetration capacity of Ameluz gel in humans the applicant 
initiated two studies in Franz cell diffusion chambers: one study utilized fresh full thickness human skin 
for  the  administration  of  Ameluz  1,  3  and  10%  gel;  in  a  previous  pilot  study  frozen  human  full-
thickness  skin  was  used  with  Ameluz  10%  gel.  In  both  studies  most  of  the  applied  dose  remained 
unabsorbed  (>98%  and  >90%,  respectively)  (dislodgeable  dose  and  stratum  corneum).  In  the  first 
study,  the  absorbed  dose  increased  with  time  for  all  concentrations  tested  and  showed  a  relatively 
linear  dose-dependency.  The  absorbed  dose  indicated  the  ALA  amount  analysed  in  the  receiver  fluid 
and  together  with  the  accumulation  seen  in  the  dermis  is  a  measure  for  systemic  exposure.  The 
highest  absorbed  dose  (receiver  +  dermis)  was  found  after  24  h  application  and  was  calculated  at 
about 0.2% of the applied dose (~20 mg/cm² Ameluz 10% gel). The epidermis as relevant target area 
accumulated  amounts  of  ALA  that  increased  up  to  the  24  h  time  point.  With  the  Ameluz  10%  dose 
about 0.08% were present in the epidermis after 3 h and 0.15% after 24 h, respectively. In the pilot 
study with frozen human tissue the highest absorbed dose was seen 24 h after application of Ameluz 
10%  gel  and  no  obvious  correlation  existed  between  the  absorbed  dose  and  the  time  after  drug 
delivery. 
Based  on  the  results  of  absorption  studies  it  was  concluded  that  no  relevant  changes  of  endogenous 
ALA  concentrations  are  expected  after  topical  treatment  with  Ameluz  10%  gel.  This  assumption  was 
confirmed by the analysis of ALA and PpIX levels in plasma and urine samples of patients treated with 
Ameluz.  Therefore,  no  kinetic  studies  in  animals  were  conducted  by  the  applicant  due  to  the  low 
systemic  exposure  expected,  but  data  from  the  scientific  literature  provide  information  on  the  basic 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of ALA after IV or PO application or after instillation into the bladder. 
Extensive  knowledge  on  ALA  pharmacokinetics  exists  in  the  scientific  literature.  Factors  affecting  ALA 
uptake  were  extensively  studied  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  As  expected,  ALA  dose,  incubation  time,  pH, 
temperature or formulation are essential parameters in this context. Exogenous ALA can be taken up 
and  metabolized  by  many  tissues,  although  the  uptake  and  metabolization  capacities  may  differ 
between different organs. Protein binding of exogenous ALA after systemic exposure was up to12%. 
With topical application, no first pass metabolism is to be expected and the metabolism of ALA will take 
place  mainly  in  keratinocytes.  Consequently,  no  P-450  in  vitro  studies  or  studies  exploring  enzyme 
induction or inhibition were performed.  
2.3.4 Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No single dose toxicity studies were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
Repeat dose toxicity 
A  repeat-dose  dermal  tolerance  and  toxicity  study  (ALA-AKPT017)  was  performed  in  mini  pigs  (2M, 
2F).  The  aim  of  this  study  was  to  obtain  information  on  the  local  and  systemic  toxicity  of  Ameluz 
following repeated dermal applications on minipig skin once monthly for 3 months.  
Goettingen  mini  pigs  (4-months  old,  2/sex/  group)  were  treated  with  Ameluz  10%  with  and  without 
PDT. Treatment and application were applied 4 times with 1-month intervals, with a recovery period of 
28  days  following  the  forth  application.  For  histopathological  assessment  of  the  healing  process, 
biopsies  were  taken  on  test  day  88  (3  days  after the  last  administration),  test  day  99  (14  days  after 
the last administration), and test day 114 (29 days after the last administration before sacrifice). 
Treatment  with  Ameluz  with  illumination  resulted  3  hours  after  illumination  in  pronounced  erythema 
(comparable  to  severe  sunburn),  lasting  until  the  next  treatment.  Starting  on  test  day  3,  (slight) 
eschar  formation  was  noted,  and  additionally  indurated  and  thickened  application  site  was  noted  for 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/57
 
 
 
one  male  animal  from  test  day  107  onwards.  Incidence  and  severity  of  these  findings  were  more 
pronounced  for  illuminated  application  sites,  however,  some  intolerance  reactions  were  also  seen  on 
non-illuminated areas, probably due to insufficient light protection (Figure 3). 
Figure 3. Time-dependent scoring of erythema, eschar and induration after multiple 
 ALA treatments 
Examples of ALA-treated sites with (areal 1, upper panel) and without PDT (areal 2, lower panel). Bars indicate the 
sum of scores from 4 animals along a time scale of up to 114 days. Repeated application is indicated on the x-axis 
(month 1 to 4). 
No  edema  formation  was  noted.  No  aggravation  of  symptoms  was  noted  during  the  course  of  the 
study. 
Histopathology revealed a mild to moderate superficial purulent dermatitis with inflammatory reactions 
in  the  dermis  on  day  88  (3-days  after  the  last  administration).  The  intensity  of  these  changes 
decreased on test day 99 and even further by day 114. The morphological structure of the skin treated 
with  Ameluz  10%  and  illuminated  was  comparable  to  placebo-treated  skin  29  days  after  the  last 
application. No obvious differences were noted between males and females (Table 1).  
Table 1: Summary of the histological severity (mean values of males and females combined)  
Treated day biopsies were taken  
Treated area 
TD 88 
TD99 
TD114 
TD114 
Verum with illumination 
Verum without illumination 
Placebo with illumination 
Placebo without illumination 
13.64 
13.40 
1.26 
0.88 
7.52 
3.25 
1.26 
1.26 
2.01 
2.76 
0.00 
2.00 
4.01 
2.00 
1.00 
0.00 
Genotoxicity 
No genotoxicity studies were submitted (see discussion of non-clinical aspects). 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/57
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were submitted (see discussion of non-clinical aspects). 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No studies on reproductive toxicity were submitted (see discussion of non-clinical aspects). 
Local Tolerance  
Local  tolerance  studies  were  explored  in  the  following  species:  mice,  rabbits  and  minipigs.  Results  of 
local tolerance studies are summarised in table 2. 
Study No./ 
Reference: 
T7076581 
(ALA-
AKPT001) 
T2077909 
(ALA-
AKPT012) 
Table 2. Local tolerance studies performed with BF-200 ALA 
Species/Strain:  Gender 
and No. 
per Group 
Method of 
Administration  
Duration 
(mg/kg) 
Dosing 
Doses 
of 
Noteworthy Findings 
CRL:KBL(NZW)B 
R rabbits (GLP) 
5F Topical 
-4 h 
CRL:KBL(NZW)B 
R rabbits (GLP) 
5F Topical 
-4 h 
80 mg 
ALA 
HCl/cm² 
(0.5 g 
BF-200 
ALA 
10%)a, b 
80 mg 
ALA 
HCl/cm² 
(0.5 g 
BF-200 
ALA 10%) 
• No indication for 
erythema, eschar 
formation or edema during 
the test or 14 observation 
period 
• Slightly yellowish 
discoloration of the 
treated skin up to 7 days 
post dosing (cause: 
residues of the test 
substance which could be 
removed by tepid water). 
• Clinical signs: 
Soft stool in 4/5 animals 
and reduced intake of food 
in 1/5 animals; most likely 
indicative of the 
application stress with 
fixation (on day 1) or 
incidental (1 finding in 1F 
on day 9). Findings are not 
regarded as test substance 
related. 
No edema, very slight 
erythema/eschar formation 
(grade 1) in 1 animal at 24 
and 48 h post dose. 
Slightly yellowish 
discoloration of the 5-ALA-
treated skin to 7 days post 
dosing (cause: residues of 
the test substance which 
could be removed by 
water). 
• Clinical signs: 
Soft faeces in 5/5 animals, 
reduced intake of food in 
2/5 animals and water in 
1/5 animals up to the end 
of the study (day 2 - day 
7); most likely due to the 
stress of handling and not 
drug-related. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 21/57
 
 
 
 
Himalayan 
3M Topical 
24 h 
Rabbits (GLP) 
(Conjunctival 
Sac of the 
right eye) 
Hsd Win:NMRI 
Mice (GLP) 
6F Topical 
3 days 
Hsd Win:NMRI 
Mice (GLP) 
6F Topical 
3 days 
0.1 mL 
(100 
μg BF-
200 
ALA 
10% ; 10 
mg ALA 
HCl) 
50 
μg/animal 
(0.5; 1.5, 
and 
5 mg 
ALA/HCl 
in 1%, 
3%, 
and 10% 
BF- 
200 ALA 
gela 
50 
μg/animal 
(5 mg 
ALA/HCl 
in BF-200 
ALA 
10%gel ) 
• No findings 
25849 
(ALAAK- 
PT027) 
T8077338/T70 
77346 
(ALA-
AKPT007) 
T9077393 
(ALA-
AKPT013) 
• No significant increase 
(>1.4) in lymph node 
indices. 
• Significant increase in 
ear swelling index after 
application of 3% gel: 
1.15, 10% 1.15, and 10% 
(dark): 1.11 (significant if 
values are >1.1) 
• Significant increase in 
ear weight after 
application of 3% gel: 
1.19, 10% gel: 
1.27, and 10% gel (dark): 
1.18.) (significant if values 
are >1.1) 
• Indication of a non-
specific (irritating) 
immunostimulating 
potential of the test 
substance at the mid and 
high dose. Avoiding light 
exposure does not reduce 
the irritant potential 
significantly. 
• Significant increase in 
the weights of the draining 
lymph nodes (1.72) and in 
the stimulation index for 
cell counts (1.83) 
compared to control 
animals after 
application of the test 
substance (significant if 
index >1.4). 
• Significant increase in 
ear swelling (1.39) and ear 
weight (1.40). (Indication 
of acute response if values 
are >1.1.)  
• Calculation of the 
differentiation index 
revealed DI <1 (eg 0.53) 
pointing to an irritating 
rather than sensitizing 
potential. 
Other toxicity studies 
In  Ameluz  10%  gel  three  major  impurities  have  been  characterized.  Specific  studies  have  been 
conducted  to  evaluate  the  local  tolerance  and  sensitization  of  Ameluz  i.e.  a  patch  test  performed  in 
rabbits  and  a  local  lymph  node  assay  in  mice  and  have  been  found  to  demonstrate  no  sensitization 
potential with minimal irritation potential observed to be slightly increased by stressed sample.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 22/57
 
 
 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
ALA is readily soluble in water and therefore not a potential PBT. 
The PEC surfacewater  was calculated according to the guideline EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 and the Q&A 
EMA/CHMP/SWP/44609/2010. 
Taking into account the frequency of administration (twice/year according to the SPC), the calculation 
of PECsurfacewater gives a value of: 
PEC default (1g/L) * 2/365 days= 0.005 g/L which is below the action limit of 0.01 g/L 
In addition, as ALA is a product of normal metabolism ubiquitously found in living organisms, the 
exposure to the environment following administration to patients is not expected to alter significantly 
the presence of this substance in the environment.  
2.3.6. Discussion and conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  applicant  has  provided  an  overview  of  the  literature  with  respect  to  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
ALA, evidence of potential efficacy as well as known pharmacological aspects associated with ALA-PTD 
treatment.  The  therapeutic  principle  is  established  and  no  further  pharmacodynamic  studies  are 
required  in  light  of  the  long  –term  clinical  experience  with  PDT  in  combination  with  the  topical 
application  of  ALA  and  its  use  in  the  treatment  of  AK.  The  development  of  Ameluz,  a  nanoemulsion-
based  gel  is  considered  to  improve  penetration  of  ALA  into  the  skin  and  thereby  increase  efficacy  as 
well as improving the stability. 
No  relevant  secondary  systemic  pharmacological  effects  are  expected  to  occur  following  topical 
application  due  to  the  negligible  systemic  absorption  observed  in  humans.  An  aspect  of  secondary 
pharmacology that appears relevant is local pain. PDT pain may reflect long-term damage to the skin 
and  the  origin  of  the  pain  sensation  was  investigated.  Examinations  suggest  the  secretion  of 
substances  irritates  sensory  nerve  endings  in  the  neighbourhood  of  keratinocytes.  Investigation  of 
PDT-induced pain was studied in two experiments designed to examine the reaction to PDT of the two 
cell types involved in pain generation in the skin, namely keratinocytes and peripheral nerve endings.  
Based that there is evidence to support mechanisms leading to PDT-related pain based on both indirect 
(via the release of ATP) and direct (activation of peripheral neurons). Both phenomena are considered 
to be short term effects. The conditions under which the study to investigate direct effects on neurons 
differed  from  that  of  other  cell  types  and  was  not  performed  with  Ameluz    improved  penetrance  and 
uptake  enhancer.  It  is  unclear  if  Ameluz  applied  locally  may  result  in  excessive  activation  of  neurons 
with adverse effects; however no adverse effects other than pain have been reported clinically.  
There are considered to be no concerns regarding systemic safety pharmacology effects. 
No pharmacodynamic drug interactions studies have been performed. Based on the negligible systemic 
exposure  following  Ameluz  treatment,  no  potential  drug  interaction  studies  are  considered  to  be 
required. 
The cellular uptake of ALA was investigated in vitro in cultivated keratinocytes or keratinocyte cell lines 
by  measuring  PpIX  fluorescence.  It  was  shown  that  the  cell  penetration  of  ALA  is  enhanced  in  the 
presence  of  the  nanoemulsion,  and  a  time  restricted  influence  on  membrane  permeability  was 
identified. 
Ex-vivo  studies  demonstrated  a  good  ALA/PpIX  penetration  down  to  the  basal  membrane  of  the 
epidermis  within  12  h  of  incubation  was  demonstrated  in  pig  skin  explants  with  Ameluz  10%  gel. 
Ameluz  10%  gel  displayed  superior  penetration  compared  to  Metvix  in  terms  of  PpIX  fluorescence 
intensity and penetration  depth at all time points tested. Human explants were studied and reviewed 
however it is indicated that absorption was found to be low, with minimal potential systemic exposure.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 23/57
 
 
 
Based  on  the  negligible  systemic  exposure  no  new  metabolism  or  elimination  studies  have  been 
performed.  It  is  considered  that  the  metabolism  and  elimination  of  ALA  is  well  know  and  understood 
within the literature.  
The systemic effects of ALA are considered to be well known within the literature. Based on the clinical 
observations there is considered to be limited potential for an increase systemic exposure to ALA above 
endogenous levels via the new formulation.  
A  4-time  administration  of  Ameluz  10%  with  1-month  interval  demonstrated  the  expected  adverse 
effects (erythema, eschar) which are mostly of mild to moderate intensities in Ameluz treated sites. The 
symptoms  were  more  pronounced  in  PDT  treated  areas.  No  aggravation  of  symptoms  was  observed, 
and  the  healing  process  was  more  rapid  from  the  second  application  onwards.  Histopathological 
evaluation confirmed a rapid healing process. No obvious differences were noted 28 days after the last 
treatment when compared to placebo treated skin. The illumination of the skin appeared to be painful; 
however,  a  veterinary  intervention  was  not  considered  to  be  necessary.  No  systemic  toxicity  was 
observed.   
In conjunction with this, several local tolerance studies were performed in mice, rabbits and mini pigs 
with or without PDT and these studies revealed some skin irritation potential in both the light and dark 
which  was  more  pronounced  following illumination but  was  observed  to  be  reversible.  No  sensitization 
potential was noted and there were no observed ocular irritation effects. 
Topical therapy with Ameluz 10% is limited to a single application of the gel to lesional skin and ALA-
PDT is an established treatment for AK. Therefore, the lack of carcinogenicity studies is considered to 
be acceptable.  
No studies were conducted by the applicant on the mutagenic and clastogenic potential of ALA or PpIX 
as part of the development program for Ameluz. Based on published data, the likelihood of sustained 
genetic damage in surviving cells after ALA-PDT is considered to be low (Fuchs et al., 2000). 
ALA has shown no impact on fertility or early embryonic development in mice, however due to the 
negligible systemic absorption above endogenous levels it is considered that there is limited potential 
for reproductive effects either on fertility or exposure to the foetus either directly during development 
or post-natal via the milk.  
All impurities have been toxicologically qualified up to the respective specification limit. 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on dermal toxicity studies or studies 
reported in the literature of repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and reproductive toxicity. 
The use of 5-aminolaevulinic acid is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.4 Clinical aspects 
2.4.1 Introduction 
The  clinical  documentation  submitted  in  support  of  this  application  comprises  data  from  one  dose-
finding study (ALA-AK-CT001) and two confirmatory studies in AK (ALA-AK-CT002 and ALA-AK-CT003). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant.  
Moreover, the applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 24/57
 
 
 
2.4.2 Pharmacokinetics 
Due to the topical administration of Ameluz 10% gel and the negligible systemic exposure, no studies 
were performed regarding distribution and binding with plasma proteins, metabolism, comparative PK 
in healthy subjects and patients, PK related to intrinsic or extrinsic factors, time dependent changes in 
pharmacokinetics, stereochemistry issues or clinically relevant PK interactions with other medicinal 
products or substances. Pharmacokinetic data with Ameluz nanoemulsion gel were collected in the 
dose-ranging study ALA-AK-CT001. 
Absorption 
ALA is rapidly absorbed after oral administration. Terminal half-lives after oral, intravenous or 
intravesical administration are short and similar. The non-renal clearance of ALA occurs mainly due to 
hepatic metabolism. Hepatic first-pass metabolism is not the major factor limiting the oral 
bioavailability of ALA, but rather gastrointestinal conversion of ALA to PpIX (Dalton et al., 2002). 
PpIX concentrations after intravenous administration of ALA were not significantly higher than those 
observed after oral administration, despite the fact that only 60% of the oral dose of ALA was 
absorbed. This suggests that the short MRT of ALA in the systemic circulation after intravenous and 
oral administration of 100 mg ALA does not allow for significant conversion to PpIX in the systemic 
circulation (Dalton et al., 2002). 
Distribution 
Not investigated for the topical administration of Ameluz 1%, 3% or 10% in clinical studies.  
Metabolism 
Aminolaevulinic  acid  dehydratase  (ALAD)  condenses  2  molecules  of  5-ALA  to  form  the  monopyrrole 
porphobilinogen  (PBG).  PBG  deaminase  catalyses  the  polymerization  of  four  molecules  of  PBG  to 
hydroxymethylbilane.  Hydroxymethylbilane  is  further  metabolized  to  uroporphyrinogen  I  and  III  (by 
uroporphyrinogen  cosynthase).  Uroporphyrinogen  decarboxylase  sequentially  removes  a  carboxylic 
group  from  the  acetic  side  chains  of  each  of  the  pyrrole  rings  to  yield  coproporphyrinogen. 
Coproporphyrinogen oxidase removes a carboxyl group from the propionic groups on 2 of the pyrrole 
rings to yield protoporphyrinogen IX (Peng et al., 1997), (Kappas et al., 1995).  
Protoporphyrinogen  oxidase  forms  PpIX  by  removing  6  hydrogen  atoms  from  protoporphyrinogen  IX. 
Finally,  ferrochelatase  mediates  the  insertion  of  ferrous  iron  into  the  porphyrin  macrocycle,  forming 
heme.  PpIX  is  the  last  step  before  incorporation  of  ferrous  iron  and  is  located  in  the  mitochondrium 
(Peng et al., 1997). 
Elimination 
In study ALA-AK-CT001, urine excretion of ALA was determined after drug application. No increase in 
urinary excretion of ALA was observed after dosing with Ameluz 1%, 3% or 10% gel confirming the 
low or negligible exposure after topical administration. 
After oral and intravenous ALA administration, ALA seems to be excreted renally and porphyrins 
formed in the liver are excreted via urine and bile and partially reabsorbed enterally (Mustajoki et al., 
1992; O’Flaherty et al., 1980). Saturable renal tubular re-absorption occurs (O’Flaherty et al., 1980). 
The ALA re-absorption mechanism in man is therefore capable of handling normal to moderately 
elevated filtered plasma ALA loads. 
Dose proportionality and time dependency 
Not investigated. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 25/57
 
 
 
Special populations 
In chronic renal failure, serum ALA was elevated to a maximum of three to four times the normal 
amounts, but its urinary excretion was reduced. The clearance of ALA was on average approximately 
12% lower than that of creatinine. In measurement of circadian values in normal subjects, plasma 
concentrations of ALA appeared reasonably constant (Gorchein et al., 1987). 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No studies were submitted. It is, however, possible that concomitant use of medication with known 
phototoxic or photoallergic potential such as St. John’s wort, griseofulvin, thiazide diuretics, 
sulfonylureas, phenothiazines, sulphonamides, quinolones and tetracyclines may enhance the 
phototoxic reaction to PDT. This is reflected in section 4.5 on the SmPC.  
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
No studies were submitted. 
2.4.3 Pharmacodynamics 
Proof-of-concept studies were not conducted by the applicant, since ALA is approved for photodynamic 
therapy of AK. A literature review has been performed by the applicant. 
Mechanism of action 
No clinical pharmacodynamic studies have been submitted. 
2.4.4 Discussion and conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Study ALA-AK-CT001 provides the only pharmacokinetic in vivo data after application of the new nano-
emulsion. Systemic exposure is considered irrelevant which is in line with published data and 
confirmed by in vitro penetration experiments. Therefore, it is reasonable to waive further in depth 
pharmacokinetic investigations. 
Ameluz does not increase 5-aminolaevulinic acid or protoprophyrin IX plasma levels following topical 
application. 
No interaction studies have been performed.  
2.5 Clinical efficacy  
The applicant conducted one dose-finding and two confirmatory studies in AK encompassing a total of 
798 patients and 357 patients (2114 lesions) exposed to Ameluz 10%. The summary of efficacy 
studies conducted by the applicant is presented in table 3. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/57
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Summary of efficacy studies 
Study 
objectives 
Study 
Design 
Dosing 
Regimen 
Treatment 
Duration 
No. of 
subjects  
Study ID 
(centers/ 
locations) 
ALA-AK-
CT001 
(Germany: 
11) 
dose-
finding, 
safety, 
tolera-
bility 
ALA-AK-
CT002 
efficacy, 
safety 
(Ger-
many: 23, 
Austria: 2, 
Switzer-
land: 1) 
ALA-AK-
CT003 
efficacy, 
safety 
(Germany: 
8) 
rando-
mized, 
double-
blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel-
group 
rando-
mized, 
observer-
blind, 
active-
compa-
rator- 
controlled, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel-
group 
(3:3:1 
ratio) 
rando-
mized, 
double-
blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel-
group  
(2:1 ratio) 
1 PDT, no 
re-treat-
ment 
1 PDT, Re-
treatment 
12 weeks 
after 1st 
PDT for not 
or partially 
responding 
lesions 
single-
dose 
appli-
cation of 
1, 3, 10% 
ALA HCl 
and 
placebo 
for 3 h 
single-
dose 
appli-
cation of 
10% ALA 
HCl, 
Metvix 
and 
placebo 
for 3 h 
single-
dose 
appli-
cation of 
10% ALA 
HCl and 
placebo 
for 3 h 
1 PDT, Re-
treatment 
12 weeks 
after 1st 
PDT for not 
or partially 
responding 
lesions 
1% gel: 
  25 r 
3% gel: 
  25 r 
10% gel: 
  28 r 
Placebo: 
  27 r 
10% gel: 
  248 r 
  248 SP 
  248 ITT 
  238 PPS 
Metvix: 
  247 r 
  246 SP 
  246 ITT 
  236 PPS 
Placebo: 
  76 r 
  76 SP 
  76 ITT 
  65 PPS 
10% gel: 
  81 r 
  81 SP 
  80 FAS 
  77 PPS 
Placebo: 
  41 r 
  41 SP 
  40 FAS 
  37 PPS 
Primary 
endpoint 
Total 
lesion 
clearance 
12 weeks 
after PDT 
Subjects 
with total 
lesion 
clearance 
12 weeks 
after last 
PDT 
Subjects 
with total 
lesion 
clearance 
12 weeks 
after last 
PDT 
Diagnosis 
incl. 
criteria 
AK, 3-10 
lesions on 
face 
and/or 
scalp, 
diameter 
0.5-1.5 
cm, 
minimal 
distance 
1.5 cm 
Mild to 
moderate 
AK (Olsen 
I-II), 4-8 
lesions on 
face 
and/or 
scalp, 
diameter 
0.5-1.5 
cm, 
minimal 
distance 
1.0 cm 
Mild to 
moderate 
AK (Olsen 
I-II), 4-8 
lesions on 
face 
and/or 
scalp, 
diameter 
0.5-1.5 
cm, 
minimal 
distance 
1.0 cm 
2.5.1 Dose response study 
  Study ALA-AK-CT001 
A  placebo-controlled,  randomized,  4-armed  study  was  performed  to  determine  an  effective,  safe  and 
tolerable dose of Ameluz gel for the treatment of AK.  
In  total  105  patients  were  treated  with  either  Ameluz  1%,  3%  or  10%  or  placebo,  104  patients 
completed  the  study,  one  patient  dropped  out  prior  to  the  week  8  assessment  due  to  a  planned 
surgery. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 27/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two  illumination  devices  with  a  broad  light  spectrum  were  applied  in  this  study  (Hydrosun/PhotoDyn 
505  and  Waldmann  PDT1200L).  With  the  low  number  of  subjects  irradiated  with  a  Waldmann  PDT 
1200L (overall 10.5% of the subjects), similar clearance rates were observed for both devices. 
The  total  clearance  rate  of  AK  lesions,  defined  as  the  percentage  of  baseline  lesion  count  within  the 
target treatment areas showing complete remission at week 12 post treatment was defined as primary 
endpoint. 
The  main  secondary  endpoint  was  the  reduction  in  AK  lesion  area  per  subject.  Additional  secondary 
endpoints included the number of totally cleared subjects, the safety and the cosmetic outcome. 
The table below gives an overview of the main treatment characteristics and the efficacy results. 
Table 4: Baseline characteristics and efficacy rates of phase II study ALA-AK-CT001 (FAS 
population) 
Variable 
Number of lesions, n 
Size, mm2 (mean  SD) 
Overall 
             Face and forehead 
             Bald scalp  
Severity grade, n (%) 
BF-200 ALA 
1%, N=25 
128 
BF-200 ALA 
3%, N=25 
134 
BF-200 ALA 10%, 
N=28 
147 
Placebo 
N=27 
135 
62.6  41.9 
64.8  40.9 
 56.8  44.5 
70.7  51.2 
62.1  44.6 
73.3  50.6 
67.4  52.1 
69.2  47.6 
52.6  38.6 
57.3  40.3 
55.5  40.9 
59.7  39.8 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
41 (32.0) 
83 (64.8) 
4 (3.1) 
71 (53.0) 
62 (46.3) 
1 (0.7) 
70 (47.6) 
76 (51.7) 
1 (0.7) 
51 (37.8) 
74 (54.8) 
10 (7.4) 
Efficacy  
(12 weeks after PDT) 
Total lesion clearance. 
 n (%) 
Lesion size, mm²  
(mean  SD)  
(% reduction) 
35/128 (27.3) 
29/134 (21.6) 
79/144 (54.9) a  
28/135 (20.7) 
Face and forehead 
Bald scalp  
18.8  21.9 
(71) 
45.2  40.6 
(20) 
26.1  33.2 
(64) 
29.7  35.3 
(56) 
16.8  26.4  
(76) 
16.9  29.6  
(68) 
32.2  43.2 
(42) 
39.1  39.4 
(35) 
Total patient clearance 
N(%) 
a: P<0.0001 (chi-square test, and CMH) to Placebo 
1 ( 4.0) 
4 (16.0) 
7 (25.9) 
1 ( 3.7) 
Only for the Ameluz 10% treated patients a significant difference to placebo was achieved with respect 
to the primary endpoint. At week 12 after treatment 54.9% of the lesions showed complete remission 
for  10%  ALA  (50.6%  of  the  lesions  on  the  face  and  forehead  and  60.3%  of  the  lesions  on  the  bald 
scalp).  Lower  clearance  rates  were  observed  for  placebo  (20.7%),  1%  ALA  (27.3%)  and  3%  ALA 
(21.6%). Statistically significant differences between Ameluz 10% to the other treatment groups were 
also  seen  regarding  the  subgroups  of  patients  >68  years,  patients  with  skin  type  III  and  lesions  of 
moderate intensity. 
Concerning secondary endpoints, Ameluz 10% gel showed the highest total patient clearance, and the 
largest reduction in lesion number and lesion size in face and forehead (50% and 76%, respectively) 
and bald scalp (60.4% and 68%, respectively) compared to the other treatments 12 weeks after PDT. 
2.5.2 Main studies  
  Study ALA-AK-CT002 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 28/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This was a randomised, observer-blind, multinational, controlled parallel-group (3:3:1 ratio) phase III 
study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  a  nanoemulsion  gel  formulation  Ameluz,  in  comparison 
with Metvix and placebo, for the treatment of actinic keratosis with photodynamic therapy. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main inclusion criteria were male and female subjects between  18 and  85 years of age,  diagnosed to 
have at least 4 but not more than 8 lesions of mild to moderate AK (Olsen grade I or II) in their face 
and / or on the bald scalp, confirmed by a pre-study biopsy.  
The scale described by Olsen et al.,1991 is the following: 
Grade 
Clinical description of intensity grading  
0 
I 
none 
no AK lesion present, neither visible nor palpable 
mild 
flat,  pink  maculae  without  signs  of  hyperkeratosis  and  erythema,  slight 
palpability, with AK felt better than seen 
II 
moderate 
pink  to  reddish  papules  and  erythematous  plaques  with  hyperkeratotic 
surface, moderately thick AK that are easily seen and felt 
III 
severe 
very thick and / or obvious AK 
The diameter of each AK lesion was to be not less than 0.5 cm and not greater than 1.5 cm. Adjacent 
AK lesions had to show a distance of more than 1.0 cm to one another.  
The following main criteria excluded subjects from study participation: known hypersensitivity to ALA, 
current  immunosuppressive  therapy,  porphyria,  hypersensitivity  to  porphyrins,  photodermatoses, 
inherited  or  acquired  coagulation  defects,  clinically  significant/unstable  medical  conditions,  other 
malignant  or  benign  tumours  of  the  skin  within  the  treatment  area,  women  of  child-bearing  potential 
without reliable contraception, and pregnant or breast-feeding women. 
Treatments 
For  each  subject,  one  of  three  formulations  (Ameluz  10%,  placebo  (the  nanoemulsion  gel  vehicle 
without the active ingredient ALA), and the marketed product Metvix (a cream containing 16% methyl-
aminolevulinate)) was applied to the target AK lesions.  
After  thorough  preparation  of  the  lesions,  including  removal  of  all  scabs,  crusts  and  hyperkeratotic 
parts  by  curettage,  the  skin  sites  were  to  be  cleaned  with  alcohol  (ethanol  or  isopropanol.  1  tube 
containing  2  g  of  test  drug  was  dispensed  for  1  PDT  session,  enough  to  cover  up  to  8  distinct  AK 
lesions with a maximum diameter of 1.5 cm. 
The gel was allowed to dry for approximately 10 min. Thereafter, an occlusive, light-tight dressing was 
placed over the lesions. After the incubation time of 3 h ± 10 min, the occlusion was removed and the 
remnant  gel  wiped  off  with  a  0.9%  saline  solution  immediately  before  illumination  of  the  target  area 
with a suitable red light source for 8 to 15 min depending on the device used. 
Subjects with non-responding AK lesions were re-treated with the same medication after 12 weeks. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  compare  the  efficacy  of  a  nanoemulsion  gel  formulation 
containing 10% 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride (5-ALA) as active ingredient (also referred to as 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 29/57
 
 
 
 
 
Ameluz)  with  the  marketed  product  Metvix  and  with  placebo,  for  the  treatment  of  AK  with  PDT. 
Secondary objective was to evaluate the safety and secondary  efficacy parameters related to Ameluz 
gel for treatment of AK with PDT. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  variable  was  the  overall  subject  complete  response  rate  assessed  12 
weeks after the last PDT. A subject was classified as an overall complete responder if all treated lesions 
were cleared after either PDT1 or PDT2, if re-treated. A missing 12-week assessment was imputed by 
the preceding 4-week assessment using a LOCF approach. In case no assessment was available at all, 
the subject was regarded as a non-responder. 
The main secondary efficacy endpoints were the subject complete response (complete clearance of all 
treated lesions) at each assessment, the subject partial response (complete clearance of at least 75% 
of the treated lesions) at each assessment the  lesion complete response (completely cleared individual 
lesions) at each assessment and the overall cosmetic outcome 12 weeks after the last PDT. 
Sample size 
To  establish  non-inferiority  of  BF-200  ALA  10%  to  Metvix,  the  one-side  lower  97.5%  confidence 
interval for  the  difference  in  overall  subject  complete  response  rate  assessed  12  weeks  after  the  last 
PDT  was  compared  to  the  pre-specified  non-inferiority  margin  of  –15%.  The  sample  size  of  210 
subjects per treatment arm has a power of at least 90% to establish non-inferiority of Ameluz 10% to 
Metvix  using  a  non-inferiority  margin of  –15%  and assuming  response  rates  of  70%  for both  Ameluz 
10% and Metvix. Assuming a dropout rate of 20%, 264 subjects per active treatment group needed to 
be randomized in order to achieve 210 evaluable subjects per treatment group in the PP population. 
To  establish  superiority  of  Ameluz  10%  over  placebo,  a  sample  size  of  264:88  subjects 
(Ameluz:placebo) has a power of more than 90%, even if very conservative response rates of 65% for 
the  Ameluz  UZ  group  and  40%  for  placebo  are  assumed  using  a  chi-square  test  with  continuity 
correction and a two-sided significance level of 0.05. 
Randomisation 
The randomization schedule linked sequential numbers to treatment codes allocated at random with a 
3:3:1 randomization ratio. 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was an observer-blinded study design. 
Statistical methods 
Two primary hypotheses were tested using a hierarchical testing procedure as follows: 
The first primary null hypothesis was that the overall complete responder rate assessed 12 weeks after 
the last PDT for subjects treated with Ameluz was equal to that of subjects treated with placebo.  
The superiority of Ameluz over placebo was tested using a chi-square test with a 2-sided significance 
level  of  0.05.  Superiority  of  Ameluz  over  placebo  was  established  if  the  first  primary  null  hypothesis 
could be rejected. 
•The second primary null hypothesis was that the overall subject complete responder rate assessed 12 
weeks after the last PDT for subjects treated with Ameluz was inferior compared to the corresponding 
responder rate for subjects treated with Metvix as specified by a non-inferiority margin of Δ=15%.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 30/57
 
 
 
The  difference  in  response  rates,  together  with  a  1-sided  lower  97.5%  CI,  was  calculated  to  assess 
non-inferiority. Non-inferiority of Ameluz in comparison to Metvix was established if the second primary 
null hypothesis could be rejected. 
Following the hierarchical testing strategy, the second primary null hypothesis was only planned to be 
tested if the first primary null hypothesis was rejected.  
Both primary hypotheses were to be tested 2-sided at a significance level of 0.05.  
The hierarchical testing procedure controls for type I error inflation due to multiple testing. Therefore, 
no adjustment of the significance level was necessary. The first primary analysis was performed on the 
ITT population and the second primary analysis on the PP population. 
No interim analysis was performed. 
Results 
Participant flow   
The patient disposition is presented in Figure 4. 
Figure 4. Patient disposition, study ALA-AK-CT002 
Recruitment 
The  trial  was  initiated  8-April-2008  (first  informed  consent  signed)  and  finalised  in  21-August-2009 
(last subject completed clinical part of study). 
Conduct of the study 
The original protocol was amended twice. 
The first amendment, dated Jan 17th, 2008 concerned the addition of a second, optional biopsy of AK 
lesions at the end of the clinical part of the study. 
The second amendment, dated Aug 20th, 2008 incorporated changes concerning the handling of new 
lesions in the treatment area after the first PDT and the definition of concomitant medication.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic characteristics and disease characteristics of the patients are presented in the 
table 5. 
 Table 5: Baseline demographic characteristics and disease characteristics  at baseline (ITT 
population) 
Numbers analysed 
The number of subjects in each of the study populations is given by treatment group in Table 6. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 32/57
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Number of subjects in the patient populations 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint  
The results of the primary endpoint are presented in table 7. 
Table  7:  Study  ALA-AK-CT002-  Efficacy  results  Primary  endpoint  –  Subjects  with  total 
AK lesion clearance 12 weeks after last PDT 
Study 
Analysis 
population 
Number (%) of subjects 
Difference to 
BF-200 ALA 10% 
Placebo   BF-200 ALA 
Metvix  
Placebo 
Metvix 
ITT population 
13/76  
(17.1%) 
10%  
194/248  
(78.2%) 
158/246  
(64.2%) 
PP population 
13/65 
(20.0%) 
189/238  
(79.4%) 
154/236  
(65.3%) 
61.1% 
95% CI: 51.2; 71.0a 
P0.0001b 
59.4% 
95% CI: 48.4; 70.4a 
P0.0001b 
14.0% 
97.5% CI: 5.9; c 
14.2% 
97.5% CI: 6.0; c 
a  2-sided 
b  2 test 
c  1-sided 
Main secondary efficacy endpoint 
The  total  AK  lesion  clearance  with  BF-200  ALA  was  90.4%  vs  37.1%  with  placebo  and  83.2%  with 
Metvix (Table 8). 
Table  8:  Study  ALA-AK-CT002-Efficacy  results-Main  secondary  endpoint  –  Total  AK  lesion 
clearance 12 weeks after last PDT 
Study 
Population 
ITT population 
Number (%) of lesions 
Difference to  
BF-200 ALA 10% 
Metvix  
Placebo 
Metvix 
Placebo  
182/490  
(37.1%) 
BF-200 ALA 
10%  
1359/1504 
(90.4%) 
1295/1557 
(83.2%) 
53.2% 
7.2% 
Other secondary efficacy endpoints 
  Subject complete response (complete clearance of all treated lesions) at each assessment 
Ameluz  10%  was  superior  to  placebo  in  total  AK  lesion  clearance  per  subject  at  each  assessment. 
Differences  vs  placebo  ranged  between  32.0  and  61.1%  (ITT  analysis)  and between  31.8  and  59.4% 
(PP analysis); all differences were statistically significant (P<0.0001) in secondary analyses. 
Differences  between  Ameluz  10%  and  Metvix  ranged  between  4.6  and  14.6%  (ITT  analysis)  and 
between 4.8 and 15.3% (PP analysis) in favour of Ameluz 10%.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 33/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Subject partial response (complete clearance of at least 75% of the treated AK lesions) at each 
Assessment 
Ameluz  10%  was  superior  to  placebo  in  clearing  at  least  75%  of  AK  lesions  at  each  assessment. 
Differences  vs  placebo  ranged  between  45.7  and  60.8%  (ITT  analysis)  and between  45.8  and  58.6% 
(PP analysis); all differences were statistically significant (P<0.0001) in secondary analyses. 
Differences  between  Ameluz  10%  and  Metvix  ranged  between  4.1  and  14.2%  (ITT  analysis)  and 
between 4.2 and 14.8% (PP analysis) in favour of Ameluz 10%.  
  Reduction in total AK lesion area per subject at each assessment  
Ameluz 10% was superior to placebo in reducing total AK lesion area at each assessment. Differences 
vs placebo ranged between 42.2 and 52.0% (ITT analysis); all differences were statistically significant 
(P<0.0001) in secondary analyses. 
Differences  between  Ameluz  10%  and  Metvix  ranged  between  2.8  and  4.5%  (ITT  analysis);  all 
differences except 3-4 weeks after PDT2 were statistically significant (between P=0.04 and 0.0007) in 
secondary analyses. 
  Overall cosmetic outcome 12 weeks after the last PDT 
“Very  good”  or  “good”  cosmetic  outcomes  12  weeks  after  last  PDT  were  more  frequent  with  Ameluz 
10%  (43.1%)  than  with  placebo  (36.4%)  and  similar  to  Metvix  (45.2%).  ‘‘Unsatisfactory’’  or 
‘’impaired’’ cosmetic outcome observed in 7.9%, 8.1 % and 18.2 % of subjects in Ameluz, Metvix and 
placebo group respectively. 
  Skin quality assessment 
Improvements in skin quality from baseline to 12 weeks after the last PDT occurred in all 3 treatment 
groups; with subjects experiencing most improvements in “roughness, dryness, scaling” (improvement 
in 40.0% subjects with Ameluz 10%, 46.4% with Metvix and 27.3% with placebo). Regarding 
hyperpigmentation (independent of texture change or hypopigmentation) and atrophy values improved 
from baseline 13.6 and 27.3% with placebo, 22.8 and 38.2% with Ameluz and 29.5 and 34.6% with 
Metvix. 
Recurrence rates at Follow-up for study ALA-AK-CT002 
Patients who completed ALA-AK-CT002 study were followed up at for two additional visits scheduled 6 
± 0.5 months after last PDT and 12 ± 1 month after the last PDT in order to evaluate recurrent AK 
lesions developing within the treatment area since the end of the study visit.  
549 subjects completed the clinical study part of whom 78.2% showed complete clearance in the 
Ameluz 10% group and 64.2% and 17. 1% in the Metvix and placebo groups, respectively. 92.6% of 
the patients completed the 12 months follow-up phase: 84.2% in the placebo group, 94% in the 
Ameluz 10% group and 93.9% in the Metvix group.  
Recurrence rates after 12 months were 41.6% for Ameluz (95% CI: 34.4-49.1) and 44.8% for MAL 
(95% CI: 36.8-53.0) and were dependent on the light spectrum used for illumination, in favour of 
narrow spectrum lamps. Prior to  the decision to undergo photodynamic therapy it should be taken into 
consideration that the probability of a subject to be completely cleared 12 months after the last 
treatment was 53.1% or 47.2% for treatment with Ameluz and 40.8% or 36.3% for MAL treatment 
with narrow spectrum lamps or all lamp types, respectively. The probability of patients in the Ameluz 
group to require only 1 treatment and remain completely cleared 12 months after the photodynamic 
therapy was 32.3%, that of patients in the MAL group 22.4% on average with all lamps.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 34/57
 
 
 
 
  Study ALA-AK-CT003 
This  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  inter-individual,  two-armed  phase  III  multi-centre  study 
evaluating the safety and efficacy of Ameluz versus placebo in the treatment of actinic keratosis when 
using PDT. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main inclusion criteria were male and female subjects between  18 and  85 years of age,  diagnosed to 
have at least 4 but not more than 8 lesions of mild to moderate AK (Olsen grade I or II) in their face or 
on the bald scalp, confirmed by a pre-study biopsy. The diameter of each AK lesion was to be not less 
than 0.5 cm and not greater than 1.5 cm. Adjacent AK lesions had to show a distance of more than 1.0 
cm to one another.  
The following main criteria excluded subjects from study participation: known hypersensitivity to ALA, 
current  immunosuppressive  therapy,  porphyria,  hypersensitivity  to  porphyrins,  photodermatoses, 
inherited  or  acquired  coagulation  defects,  clinically  significant/unstable  medical  conditions,  other 
malignant  or  benign  tumours  of  the  skin  within  the  treatment  area,  women  of  child-bearing  potential 
without reliable contraception, and pregnant or breast-feeding women. 
Treatments 
For  each  subject,  one  of  two  formulations  (Ameluz  10%  or  placebo  (the  nanoemulsion  gel  vehicle 
without the active ingredient ALA), was applied to the target AK lesions.  
Scabs, crusts, or hyperkeratosis were thoroughly removed from the AK lesions. In addition, all lesion 
surfaces  were  abraded  using  a  curette  or  scalpel  blade  avoiding  bleeding  and  were  cleaned  with  an 
ethanol-soaked cotton pad prior to drug application and incubation. 1 tube containing 2 g of test drug 
was  dispensed  for  1  PDT  session,  enough  to  cover  up  to  8  distinct  AK  lesions  with  a  maximum 
diameter of 1.5 cm. 
After application, the gel was allowed to dry for approximately 10 min. Thereafter, an occlusive, light-
tight dressing was placed over the lesions. After the incubation time of 3 h ± 10 min, the occlusion was 
removed and the remnant gel wiped off with a 0.9% saline solution immediately before illumination of 
the target area with a suitable red light source for 11 to 15 min. 
Objectives 
The  objectives  of  the  study  were  to  assess  the  efficacy,  safety,  tolerability  and  cosmetic  outcome  of 
topical PDT with a new nanoemulsion formulation of 5-aminolaevulinic acid hydrochloride (Ameluz) in 
the treatment of AK. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the total AK clearance rate, defined as the number of subjects with 
complete remission of all AK lesions in the target area(s) assessed 12 weeks after the last PDT.  
The main secondary efficacy endpoints were the subject complete response (complete clearance of all 
treated lesions) at each assessment, the subject partial response (complete clearance of at least 75% 
of  the  treated  lesions)  at  each  assessment,  the    lesion  complete  response  (completely  cleared 
individual lesions) at each assessment and the overall cosmetic outcome 12 weeks post-treatment. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 35/57
 
 
 
Sample size 
Based  on  the  phase  IIb  study  ALA-AK-CT001  the  applicant  assumed  clearance  rates  of  35%  (active) 
and 10% (placebo), respectively, a total number of 67 (active) and 34 (placebo) subjects would suffice 
for 80% power to show statistically significant superiority over placebo with a one-sided type I error of 
2.5% . Accounting for possible drop-outs, a total of 120 subjects were to be included in this study. 
Randomisation 
The patients were randomly assigned to receive Ameluz or placebo in a 2:1 ratio.  
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double blinded. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  endpoint  (clearance  rate)  was  estimated  as  a  relative  frequency  separately  for  BF-  200 
ALA  and  placebo  treatments  and  it  was  tested  if  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  clearing 
rates existed between Ameluz and placebo. 
A Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, accounting for centres as stratifying variable, was used. The test was 
evaluated as two-sided test at an alpha-level of 0.05, but superiority of active treatment over placebo 
could only be concluded if, besides statistical significance, the clearance for the active treatment was 
higher than for the placebo treatment. 
This evaluation corresponds to a one-sided test of superiority evaluated at α=0.025.  
Furthermore,  95%  CIs  according  to  the  method  of Pearson-Clopper  were  calculated  for  the  clearance 
rates of each of the treatments.  
The analysis of the primary endpoint was performed for the FAS population (all subjects who received 
treatment and had at least one post-dose assessment of the clearance of the AK lesions in the target 
area  of  the  primary  variable)  and  the  PP  population  (all  subjects  who  had  no  significant  protocol 
violations and for whom clearance of all lesions present at baseline could be assessed after 12 weeks 
of  treatment).  The  analysis  of  the  secondary  endpoints  was  performed  for  the  FAS  and  the  PP 
population. 
No interim analysis was performed. 
Results 
Participant flow   
The patient disposition is presented in Figure 5. 
Figure 5. Disposition of subjects 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 36/57
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The  trial  was  initiated  13-December-2007  (first  informed  consent  signed)  and  finalised  in  1-October-
2008 (last subject completed clinical part of study). 
Conduct of the study 
The  original  protocol  was  amended  once.  The  amendment  (dated  November  2nd,  2007)  included 
changes to the criteria for a second PDT (criteria were given in more detail). 
Baseline data 
Baseline  demographics  and  baseline  disease  characteristics  and  prior  therapy  information  are 
summarised in tables 9 and 10. 
Table 9. Summary of demographic characteristics (FAS population) 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 37/57
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. AK lesion numbers and severity grade (according to OLSEN) at baseline (safety 
population) 
Numbers analysed 
The number of subjects in each of the study populations is given by treatment group in table 11. 
Table 11. Study populations 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint  
The results of the primary endpoint are presented in table 12. 
Table  12.  Study  ALA-AK-CT003-Efficacy  results-Primary  endpoint-Subjects  with  total 
AK lesion clearance 12 weeks after last PDT 
Main secondary efficacy endpoint 
Total  AK  lesion  clearance  with  Ameluz  10%  was  81.1%  vs  20.9%  with  placebo  (FAS  population)  and 
81.3% vs 22.0%, respectively (PP population) (table 13). 
Table  13.  Study  ALA-AK-CT003-Efficacy  results-Main  secondary  endpoint-Total  AK  lesion 
clearance 12 weeks after last PDT 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 38/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other secondary efficacy endpoints 
  Subject complete response (complete clearance of all treated lesions) at each assessment 
Ameluz  10%  was  superior  to  placebo  in  total  AK  lesion  clearance  per  subject  at  each  assessment. 
Differences  vs  placebo  ranged  between  31.3  and  53.8%;  all  differences  were  statistically  significant 
(P<0.0001 or 0.0002) in secondary analyses. 
  Subject  partial  response  (complete  clearance  of  at  least  75%  of  the  treated  AK  lesions)  at  each 
assessment 
Ameluz  10%  was  superior  to  placebo  in  clearing  at  least  75%  of  AK  lesions  at  each  assessment. 
Differences  vs  placebo  ranged  between  46.3  and  61.3%  (FAS  analysis);  all  differences  were 
statistically significant (P<0.0001) in secondary analyses. 
  Reduction in total AK lesion area per subject at each assessment: 
Mean  lesion size  of  the lesions  on  the face  and  forehead  per  subject  was  reduced  from  70.8  mm2  at 
baseline to 6.3 mm2 at the end of the study in the Ameluz 10% group.  
On the bald scalp mean lesion size decreased from 71.3 mm2 to 10.0 mm2.  
The corresponding reductions in the placebo group were for face and forehead from 77.3 mm² to 58.4 
mm² and for bald scalp from 63.8 mm² to 41.7 mm². 
Until  the  end  of  the  study  the  mean  total  lesion  area  within  the  target  treatment  area  per  subject 
decreased  after  treatment  with  Ameluz  by  360.2  mm2  (from  403.8  mm2  to  43.6  mm2)  and  after 
treatment with placebo by 110.1 mm2 (from 399.3 mm2 to 289.2 mm2, P<0.0001). 
  Overall cosmetic outcome 12 weeks after the last PDT 
“Very good” and “good” cosmetic outcomes were more frequent with Ameluz 10% (47.6%) than with 
placebo (25.0%). ‘‘Unsatisfactory’’ or ‘‘impaired’’ outcome has been reported in 3.8 % and 22.5 % of 
subjects in AMELUZ and placebo group respectively. 
  Skin quality assessment 
Skin  quality  improved  during  the  course  of  the  study  in  the  Ameluz  10%  group,  especially  for 
“roughness,  dryness,  scaling”  (improvement  in  41.3%  subjects  with  Ameluz  10%  and  15.0%  with 
placebo; P=0.0123) and “hyperpigmentation” (improvement in 20.1% subjects with Ameluz 10% and 
17.5% with placebo; P=0.0389).  
For  all  other  skin  irritation  parameters,  more  than  80%  of  all  subjects  showed  no  changes  from 
baseline to the end of the study. 
Recurrence rates at Follow-up for study ALA-AK-CT003 
Seventy-seven of the Ameluz 10% treated patients were followed up, of whom 53 subjects had shown 
complete clearance at the end of the study. All subjects comprised 353 cleared lesions which were 
followed up. 
At month 6 after the last PDT, 25 out of 353 cleared lesions (7.1%) in Ameluz 10% treated patients 
showed a recurrent AK and further 28 lesions (7.9%) were recurrent in month 12, i.e. overall 53 
lesions were recurrent at the end of the follow-up period (15.0%). Prior to  the decision to undergo 
photodynamic therapy it should be taken into consideration that the probability of a subject to be 
completely cleared 12 months after the last treatment was 67.5% or 46.8% for treatment with Ameluz 
with narrow spectrum lamps or all lamp types, respectively. The probability to require only one 
treatment with Ameluz and remain completely cleared 12 months later was 34.5% on average with all 
lamps. 
42 subjects (79.2%) who had shown complete clearance 3 months after the last PDT remained without 
any recurrent AK lesions until month 6, and 34 subjects (64.2%) were still completely cleared at the 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 39/57
 
 
 
 
 
end of the 12-month follow-up period. Nine subjects (17.0%) showed at least 1 recurrent lesion in 
month 6 and further 6 subjects (11.3%) in month 12. 
Ancillary analyses 
The efficacy results (ITT and FAS analysis of studies ALA-AK-CT002 and ALA-AK-CT003) were analyzed 
in subpopulations with regard to the primary efficacy endpoint “subjects with total AK lesion clearance” 
These included analyses by sex, age, number of AK lesions at baseline, maximum AK baseline severity, 
AK lesion area, skin type, target areas, lamp type, and illumination source  
The overall superior efficacy of Ameluz 10% over placebo observed in the overall subject populations 
was confirmed in all subpopulations analyzed. In addition, Ameluz 10% had numerically higher AK 
clearance rates per subject than Metvix in most of the subpopulation analyzed (data not shown). 
In addition, the applicant performed sub analyses in studies ALA-AK-CT002 and ALA-AK-CT003 
concerning the primary efficacy endpoint stratified by illumination lamps and wavelength spectra. 
In study ALA-AK-CT002 the use of illumination sources with a narrow wavelength spectrum resulted in 
higher proportion of responders with Ameluz or Metvix, but not with placebo, than sources with a 
broad wavelength spectrum: 84.8% vs 71.5% with Ameluz 10% and 67.5% vs 61.3% with Metvix, but 
12.8% vs 21.6% with placebo. In general Ameluz 10% leads to better results than Metvix with any of 
the illumination sources. An exception is the Waldmann lamp which yielded slightly better results with 
Metvix compared to Ameluz 10% (92.3% vs 86.7%), but was used in few subjects only (5.4%). 
In study ALA-AK-CT003 the use of illumination sources with a narrow wavelength spectrum resulted in 
higher proportion of responders with placebo or Ameluz than sources with a broad wavelength 
spectrum: 13.3% vs 12.0% with placebo and 87.1% vs 53.1% with Ameluz 10%. 
Irrespective of the illumination source, Ameluz 10% was generally superior to the other 
two treatments. The overall effects of narrow-spectrum illumination were more pronounced than those 
observed with broad-spectrum illumination. 
Summary of Main Efficacy Results 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 14. Summary of Efficacy for trial ALA-AK-CT002 
Title: A randomized, observer-blind, multinational phase III study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of a nanoemulsion gel formulation BF-200 ALA, in comparison with Metvix and 
placebo, for the treatment of actinic keratosis with photodynamic therapy.  
Study identifier 
ALA-AK-CT002, 2007-006854-24 
Design 
Randomized, observer blind, multinational, comparator and placebo-controlled 
parallel-group (3:3:1 ratio) phase III study  
Duration of main phase: 
12 weeks after 1st photodynamic therapy 
(PDT) 
not applicable 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
12 weeks after 2nd PDT 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Superiority  of BF-200-ALA over placebo and non-inferiority of BF-200-ALA to 
Metvix 
BF-200-ALA 
BF-200-ALA: 248 
Placebo 
Metvix 
Placebo: 76 
Metvix : 247 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 40/57
 
 
 
 
An overall complete responder was defined as 
a subject in whom all treated lesions were 
cleared after the last PDT. 
Lesion complete response (completely cleared 
individual lesions) assessed 12 weeks after 
the last PDT. 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Primary 
endpoint: 
Overall 
subject 
complete 
response 
assessed 12 
weeks after 
the last PDT 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Actinic 
Keratosis (AK) 
lesion 
clearance 
7 December 2009 
Complete 
responder 
rate 
Complete 
lesion 
response 
rate 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat (ITT, for the comparison of BF-200-ALA vs. placebo) and per 
protocol (PP, BF-200-ALA vs. Metvix). 
12 weeks after last PDT 
Treatment group 
BF-200-ALA 
Placebo 
Metvix 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subjects (ITT) 
Complete 
responder rate 
(proportion 
responders) 
95% CI 
Number of 
subjects (PP) 
Complete 
responder rate 
(proportion 
responders) 
95% CI 
248 
76 
246 
78.2% 
17.1% 
64.2% 
(72.6, 83.2) 
(9.4, 27.5) 
(57.9, 70.2) 
238 
65 
236 
79.4  
20.0 
65.3 
(73.7, 84.4)  
(11.1, 31.8)  
(58.8, 71.3) 
Comparison groups 
BF-200-ALA vs. placebo 
Difference in proportions 
(BF-200-ALA -placebo) 
95% CI two-sided 
61.1% 
(51.2, 71.0) 
P-value (Chi-square test) 
P<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
BF-200-ALA v.s. Metvix 
Difference in proportions 
(BF-200-ALA -Metvix) 
95% CI two-sided 
P-value (Chi-square test, 
2-sided, alpha=5%) 
14.0% 
 [6.0; Inf] 
.0006 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(Complete 
responder rate, 
ITT) 
Primary endpoint 
(Complete 
responder rate, 
PP) 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 41/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15. Summary of Efficacy for trial ALA-AK-CT003 
Title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Phase III Multi-Center Study evaluating the safety and efficacy 
of BF-200 ALA versus Placebo in the treatment of actinic keratosis when using photodynamic 
therapy 
Study identifier 
ALA-AK-CT003, 2007-003371-39 
Design 
Randomized, doubled-blind, placebo-controlled, inter-individual, 2-armed, 
multicenter phase III study (verum/placebo ratio of 2:1) 
Duration of main phase: 
12 weeks after 1st photodynamic therapy 
(PDT) 
not applicable 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Hypothesis 
Superiority  of BF-200-ALA over placebo  
Duration of Extension phase:  12 weeks after 2nd PDT 
Treatments groups 
BF-200-ALA 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Database lock 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint:  
AK Clearance 
Rate (CR) 
Results and Analysis  
BF-200-ALA:81 
Placebo:41 
Total 
clearance 
rate 
The number of subjects with complete 
remission of all AK lesions in the target 
area(s) assessed 12 weeks after the last 
PDT. 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
The analysis of the efficacy parameter was performed for the full analysis 
set (FAS)  
12 weeks after last PTD 
Treatment group 
BF-200-ALA 
placebo 
Number of 
subjects (FAS) 
Total clearance 
rate (proportion 
responders) 
80 
40 
66.3% 
12.5% 
95% CI 
(54.8, 76.4) 
(4.2, 26.8) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(Total clearance 
rate, FAS) 
Comparison groups 
BF-200-ALA v.s. placebo 
A Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel test statistic  
95% CI 
P-value  
32.3619 
Not applicable 
P<.0001 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No analyses across trials were submitted. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies have been conducted in special populations. 
Supportive studies 
No supportive studies have been submitted.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 42/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.3 Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The  statistical  methods  used  for  the  phase  III  studies  are  in  general  considered  appropriate.  Many 
aspects of the statistical methods are similar between the studies. Missing data are not an issue due to 
the low number of protocol violations and drop-outs from the studies. 
Demographics  were  balanced  between  placebo  and  BF-200  ALA  10%  in  terms  of    Gender,  race,  age, 
height, weight, BMI, duration of AK lesions, severity and previous treatment in both pivotal studies. 
Study  ALA-AK-CT002  was  designed  as  three  arm  study  with  Ameluz  10%,  placebo  and  Metvix  as 
approved active treatment in the treatment arms. Due to formulation differences in the active arms the 
study was conducted as observer blinded and this approach is considered acceptable. 
Study  ALA-AK-CT002  showed  superiority  of  Ameluz  10%  compared  to  placebo  and  non-inferiority  of 
Ameluz  10%  compared  to  Metvix  in  terms  of  overall  subject  complete  response  assessed  12  weeks 
after the last PDT.  
Study  ALA-AK-CT003  showed  superiority  of  BF-200-ALA  over  placebo  in  terms  of  AK  Clearance  Rate 
(CR). 
Data  exceeding  12  months  are  not  available;  therefore  a  comparison  of  the  long  term  results  with 
other  established  treatment  modalities  is  not  possible  at  present.  However,  this  is  general  an 
uncertainty for PDT and not only for Ameluz treatment. 
2.5.4 Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Overall,  the  efficacy  results  are  considered  compelling  enough  to  establish  the  clinical  efficacy  of  the 
product. 
2.6 Clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  was  based  on  the  three  clinical trials  with Ameluz  (ALA-AK-CT1001,  ALA-AK-CT002 
and ALA-AK-CT003) and a literature survey on the safety of topical treatments with other ALA or MAL 
formulations. 
Patient exposure 
Safety data for Ameluz 10% have been derived from studies which were completed and reported as of 
cut-off date August 30th, 2010 (Table 16). 
Table 16. Overview of clinical studies of phase II and phase III completed as of cut off-date 
August 30th, 2010 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 43/57
 
 
 
 
In  ALA-AK-CT002  the  safety  population  was  defined  as  all  subjects  treated  at  least  once  with 
investigational product. 
In ALA-AK-CT003 the safety population was defined as all randomized subjects who received treatment 
with study medication (independent whether verum or placebo). Within the safety population a subject 
was,  in  case  such  differences  occurred,  classified  according  to  the  treatment  actually  received  rather 
than to the treatment assigned by randomization. 
In  the  phase  II  and  phase  III  clinical  trial  program,  the  safety  population  comprised  of  797  patients, 
357 subjects were exposed to treatment with BF-200 ALA 10% nanoemulsion gel (Table 17). In total, 
2114 AK lesions received PDT in this population. 
Table 17. Patient exposure to BF-200 ALA 
The clinical studies contain demographic variables from a large study population and reflect the typical 
characteristics of subjects undergoing PDT for AK lesions. Limitations due to the criteria as defined in 
the respective study protocols were applicable for subjects with known hypersensitivity to ALA, current 
immunosuppressive  therapy,  porphyria,  hypersensitivity  to  porphyrins,  photodermatoses,  inherited  or 
acquired  coagulation  defects,  clinically  significant/unstable  medical  conditions,  other  malignant  or 
benign tumours of the skin within the treatment area, women of child-bearing potential without reliable 
contraception, and pregnant or breast-feeding women. 
The  safety  population  of  confirmatory  studies  comprised  a  wide  range  of  body  weights  and  also 
included  a  sufficient  number  of  subjects  older  than  65  years  (Placebo  treated  patients:  98,  Ameluz 
10%  treated  patients:  262).  With  respect  to  race  it  was  a  Caucasian  population  only.  No  relevant 
differences were observed between the two confirmatory studies with respect to demographic variables. 
Adverse events 
The incidence of adverse reactions in the population exposed to treatment with Ameluz (357 subjects) 
is  listed  below.  Frequencies  are  defined  as  very  common  (≥1/10),  common  (≥1/100  to  <1/10), 
uncommon  (≥1/1,000  to  <1/100),  rare  (1/10,000  to  <1/1,000),  Very  rare  (<1/10,000),  and  not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data).  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 44/57
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18. Overview of adverse reactions  
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and infestations 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
precedural complications 
Study ALA-AK-CT001 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
At application site: Rash pustular 
Nervousness 
Headache 
At application site: Dysaesthesia 
At application site: Eyelid oedema  
Common 
At application site: Skin tightness 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
At application site: Dry skin, petechiae, 
hyperkeratosis 
At application site: Irritation, erythema, pain, 
pruritus, oedema, exfoliation, scab, induration 
At application site: Vesicles, paraesthesia, 
hyperalgesia, erosion, warmth 
At application site: Bleeding, discomfort, 
discharge, discoloration, ulcer 
Not at application site: Chills, feeling hot, pyrexia, 
pain  
Uncommon 
Wound secretion 
An overview of adverse events (AEs) is shown in table 19. 
Table 19. Phase II study ALA-AK-CT001-Overview of treatment-emergent adverse events 
(population valid for safety analysis) 
The  majority  of  adverse  events  were  non-serious  application  site  disorders  associated  with  PDT,  that 
occur in 77.8% of subjects receiving placebo, 80% receiving Ameluz 1%, 92.0% receiving Ameluz 3%, 
and 96.4% receiving Ameluz 10%.  
The  most  common  TEAE  other  than  application  site  disorders  was  nasopharyngitis  occurring  in  3 
subjects receiving Ameluz 10%. All other events did not occur in more than 1 subject in any treatment 
group.  
All  drug-related  adverse  events  were  non-serious  application  site  disorders  associated  with  PDT. 
Application site erythema was the most frequently reported application site disorder. Table 20 presents 
the most frequent drug-related TEAEs. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 45/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20. Phase II study ALA-AK-CT-001-Incidence of drug-related treatment-emergent 
adverse events (population valid for safety analysis) 
Study ALA-AK-CT002 
An overview of TEAEs is presented in table 21.   
Table 21. Overview of treatment-emergent adverse events in subjects (safety population) 
The majority of TEAEs were non-serious application site disorders associated with PDT, which occurred 
in 64.5% of subjects receiving placebo, 94.8% receiving Ameluz 10%, and 96.7% receiving Metvix. 
Adverse events were more frequent in subjects receiving active treatment than in those receiving 
placebo. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 46/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table 22 presents the most frequent drug-related TEAEs by MedDRA system organ class and 
preferred term. 
Table 22. Phase III study ALA-AK-CT002 – Incidence of drug-related, treatment-emergent 
adverse events occurring in 4 subjects in any treatment group (population valid for safety 
analysis) 
Primary system organ class 
Preferred term 
Any subject with drug-related adverse events 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Any event a 
Application site discharge 
Application site edema 
Application site erosion 
Application site erythema 
Application site exfoliation 
Application site hypersensitivityb 
Application site induration 
Application site irritation 
Application site pain 
Application site paresthesia 
Application site pruritus 
Application site scab 
Application site vesicles 
Nervous system disorders 
Any event a 
Headache 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Any event a 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Scab 
Skin exfoliation 
Placebo 
n=76 
50 (65.8%) 
BF-200 ALA 
10% 
n=248 
236 (95.2%) 
Metvix 
n=246 
240 (97.6%) 
49 (64.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (1.3%) 
1 (1.3%) 
31 (40.8%) 
5 (6.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
25 (32.9%) 
19 (25.0%) 
2 (2.6%) 
6 (7.9%) 
2 (2.6%) 
1 (1.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (3.9%) 
1 (1.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (1.3%) 
1 (1.3%) 
235 (94.8%) 
2 (0.8%) 
62 (25.0%) 
8 (3.2%) 
198 (79.8%) 
44 (17.7%) 
10 (4.0%) 
24 (9.7%) 
219 (88.3%) 
175 (70.6%) 
17 (6.9%) 
59 (23.8%) 
27 (10.9%) 
22 (8.9%) 
238 (96.7%) 
5 (2.0%) 
61 (24.8%) 
6 (2.4%) 
199 (80.9%) 
44 (17.9%) 
3 (1.2%) 
21 (8.5%) 
222 (90.2%) 
179 (72.8%) 
18 (7.3%) 
60 (24.4%) 
30 (12.2%) 
23 (9.3%) 
6 (2.4%) 
5 (2.0%) 
6 (2.4%) 
6 (2.4%) 
26 (10.5%) 
7 (2.8%) 
5 (2.0%) 
3 (1.2%) 
17 (6.9%) 
22 (8.9%) 
5 (2.0%) 
1 (0.4%) 
4 (1.6%) 
15 (6.1%) 
a: Data for all treatment emergent adverse events in this category are given. Details are only shown when 
occurring in 4 subjects in any treatment group. 
b: faulty classification in one clinical center, should be hyperalgesia 
Non-serious application site irritation, application site erythema, and application site pain were the 
most frequently reported application site disorders.  
The most common drug-related TEAE other than application site disorders or skin disorders was 
headache (placebo 0.0%, Ameluz 2.0%, Metvix 2.4%). 
The more intense and higher number of adverse reactions correlated when patients were irradiated 
with the narrow spectrum device (Table 23). 
Table 23. Main adverse effects achieved by different lamp devices in Study AL-AK-CT0002 
Light source 
Drug 
Application site Erythema  
(%) 
moderate 
severe 
mild 
Application site pain  
(%) 
moderate 
severe 
mild 
Narrow 
spectrum  
Broad 
spectrum 
BF-200 
ALA10% 
Metvix® 
BF-200 
ALA10% 
Metvix® 
13 
18 
32 
31 
43 
43 
29 
33 
35 
29 
6 
3 
12 
12 
17  
20 
33 
33  
25 
23 
46 
48 
5 
8 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 47/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ALA-AK-CT003 
The incidence of AEs in Study ALA-AK-CT003 is presented in table 24. 
  Table 24. Incidence of Adverse events 
The majority of TEAEs were non-serious application site disorders associated with PDT, which occurred 
in 39.0% of subjects receiving placebo and in 96.3% of those receiving Ameluz 10%.  
TEAEs were mainly of mild to moderate intensity; the overall incidences of events with severe intensity 
were 2.4% (placebo) and 16.0% (Ameluz 10%). 
The  table  25  presents  the  most  frequent  drug-related  TEAEs  by  MedDRA  system  organ  class  and 
preferred term. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 48/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25. Phase III study ALA-AK-CT003 – Incidence of drug-related, treatment-emergent 
adverse events (population valid for safety analysis) 
Primary system organ class 
Preferred term 
Any subject with any drug-related adverse 
events 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Any event 
Application site discomfort 
Application site edema 
Application site erythema 
Application site induration 
Application site irritation 
Application site pain 
Application site pruritus 
Application site reaction 
Application site scab 
Application site vesicles 
Pyrexia 
Infections and infestations 
Any event 
Application site pustules 
Nasopharyngitisa 
Nervous system disorders 
Any event 
Headache 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Placebo 
n=41 
16 (39.0%) 
BF-200 ALA 10% 
n=81 
78 (96.3%) 
16 (39.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (2.4%) 
15 (36.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
10 (24.4%) 
4 (9.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (4.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
78 (96.3%) 
1 (1.2%) 
32 (39.5%) 
72 (88.9%) 
12 (14.8%) 
70 (86.4%) 
44 (54.3%) 
27(33.3%) 
9 (11.1%) 
1 (1.2%) 
1 (1.2%) 
1 (1.2%) 
2 (2.5%) 
1 (1.2%) 
1 (1.2%) 
1 (1.2%) 
1 (1.2%) 
Any event 
Pruritus 
1 (1.2%) 
1 (1.2%) 
a Patient suffered from a cold starting 69 days after the PDT and lasting for 8 days. Classified as “possibly 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
related” by the investigator. 
Nearly all drug-related adverse events were non-serious application site disorders associated with PDT. 
Application site erythema, application site irritation, and application site pain were the most frequently 
reported application site disorders. Incidence rates were 36.6% (placebo) and 88.9% (Ameluz 10%) 
for application site erythema; 24.4% (placebo) and 86.4% (Ameluz 10%) for application site irritation; 
and 9.8% (placebo) and 54.3% (Ameluz 10%) for application site pain. 
Other drug-related treatment-emergent adverse events were rare and occurred in the Ameluz 10% 
group only. 
The more intense and higher number of adverse reactions observed when patients were irradiated with 
the narrow spectrum device (Table 26). 
Table 26. Main adverse effects achieved by different lamp devices in Study AL-AK-CT0003 
Light source 
Drug 
Narrow  
Broad  
BF-200 
ALA10%® 
BF-200 
ALA10%® 
Application site Erythema 
(%)  
moderate 
mild 
severe 
26 
47 
67 
19 
7 
0 
30 
35 
Application site pain 
(%) 
mild 
Moderate 
35 
14 
severe 
16 
0 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 49/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Only  1  serious  TEAE  was  reported  in  Study  ALA-AK-CT001.  This  concerned  a  subject  of  the  placebo 
group  who  experienced  2  syncopes  about  8  weeks  after  receiving  PDT.  The  event  resolved  and  was 
considered unrelated to study drug.  
No  related  serious  TEAEs  were  reported  in  Study  ALA-AK-CT002.  No  TEAEs  resulting  in  death  were 
reported during the clinical part of the study. Overall frequencies of serious TEAEs were low and similar 
in the Metvix and Ameluz 10% groups (10 [4.1%] and 11 [4.4%] subjects, respectively); and were 3 
(3.9%)  subjects  in  the  placebo  group.  The  following  serious  TEAEs  were  reported  in  2  or  more 
subjects: arrhythmia (1 subject in the placebo group and 1 in the Ameluz10% group), contusion (1 in 
the Metvix and 1 in the Ameluz 10% group) and cerebrovascular accident (both in the Metvix group). 
All of the serious TEAEs were assessed as not related to study medication by the investigator. 
During the follow-up study, 10 serious TEAEs were reported in 8 subjects; 3 subjects were treated with 
Ameluz  10%,  5  subjects  received  Metvix.  Four  SAEs  were  fatal.  The  serious  TEAEs  occurred  between 
about  6  weeks  after  the  last  PDT  (subject  115/38)  and  about  1  year  after  the  last  PDT  (subjects 
120/31 and 102/06). None of the serious adverse events were assessed as drug-related.  
Study  ALA-AK-CT003  had  2  serious  TEAEs  that  occurred  during  the  study  in  2  subjects  receiving 
placebo.  No  events  occurred  in  the  Ameluz  10%  group.  None  of  the  serious  TEAEs  were  assessed  as 
drug-related. 
Deaths 
No  death  occurred  in  the  phase  II  trial.  No  death  occurred  in  the  phase  III  trials  during  the  actual 
study duration. In study ALA-AK-CT002, 4 subjects died during the follow-up period, one in the Ameluz 
10% group and 3 in the Metvix group. All deaths were considered unrelated to the study medication.  
Laboratory findings 
In all studies, laboratory monitoring showed no clinically relevant drug-related changes. 
Safety in special populations 
Geriatric use 
Altogether 284 patients >65 years were treated with Ameluz 10%, 262 of whom participated in the 
pivotal studies (Table 27).  
Table 27. Geriatric population treated with BF-200 ALA 10% (safety population) 
Patients’ age 
ALA-AK-CT001 
ALA-AK-CT002 
ALA-AK-CT003 
Total n (%) 
≤65 years 
n (%) 
6 (21.4%) 
55 (22.2%) 
12 (14.8%) 
73 (20.4%) 
>65 years 
n (%) 
22 (78.6%) 
193 (77.8%) 
69 (85.2%) 
284(79.6%) 
Total 
n (%) 
28 (100%) 
248 (100%) 
81 (100%) 
357 (100%) 
When the safety data of the 2 pivotal studies were analyzed in age groups ≤ 65, >65 to 75 and >75 
years, no meaningful difference was identified with respect to treatment emergent adverse events. As 
the  adverse  events  identified  were  usually  non-serious  application  site  reactions  no  pooled  analysis 
was performed for the studies. 
Pregnancy and lactation 
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ameluz 10%. It is also not known whether 
Ameluz  10%  can  cause  foetal  harm  when  administered  topically  to  a  pregnant  woman  or  can  affect 
reproductive capacity. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 50/57
 
 
 
Literature experience on the potential influence of ALA on pregnancy is described in a case report of a 
patient  suffering  from  porphyria  described  a  porphyric  attack  precipitated  by  pregnancy.  Pregnancy 
continued  to  full  term  with  spontaneous  delivery.  The  neonate  was  apparently  normal,  despite  high 
levels of ALA in maternal plasma (up to 12 μmol/L) throughout gestation and high level of ALA in the 
cord blood. 
There are no data from the use of ALA in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive 
toxicity.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  Ameluz  10%  is  not  recommended  during  pregnancy  and  in 
women of childbearing potential not using contraception. This is reflected in section 4.6 of the SmPC. 
The  levels  of  ALA  or  its  metabolites  in  the  milk  of  subjects  treated  with  Ameluz  10%  have  not  been 
measured. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when Ameluz 
10%  is  administered  to  a  nursing  woman.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  breast  feeding  should  be 
interrupted  for  12  hours  (corresponding  to  more  than  five  half-lives  of  ALA  following  systemic 
administration)  following  a  PDT  treatment  with  the  BF-  200  ALA  10%  gel.  This  is  reflected  in  section 
4.6 of the SmPC. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Not investigated. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In study ALA-AK-CT002, discontinuation rates for any reason were higher in the placebo group 
(10.5%) than in the two active groups (both 2.8%). In the other 2 studies, no relevant differences 
were observed between placebo and Ameluz 10% (Table 28). 
Table 28. Study subject withdrawals in controlled studies (safety population) 
Phase 
Study number 
Reason for withdrawal 
ALA-AK-CT001 
Premature termination total 
Scheduled surgery 
ALA-AK-CT002 
Premature termination total 
Adverse event 
Lack of efficacy 
Lost to follow-up 
Protocol violation 
Subject’s decision 
Sponsor’s request due to  
violation of an exclusion 
criterion 
ALA-AK-CT003 
Premature termination total 
Protocol deviation 
Consent withdrawn 
Placebo 
n (%) 
BF-200 ALA 10% 
n (%) 
27 (100.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
76 (100.0%) 
8 (10.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (2.6%) 
1 (1.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (5.3%) 
1 (1.3%) 
41 (100.0%) 
4 (9.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (9.8%) 
28 (100.0%) 
1 (3.6%) 
1 (3.6%) 
248 (100.0%) 
7 (2.8%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (1.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
81 (100.0%) 
4 (4.9%) 
1 (1.2%) 
3 (3.7%) 
Metvix 
n (%) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
246 (100.0%) 
7 (2.8%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.8%) 
3 (1.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
The rate of discontinuation during the follow-up phases of Studies ALA-AK-CT002 and ALA-AK-CT003 
were similar in the treatment groups (5.3%, 3.2% and 3.7% in ALA-AK-CT002 for placebo, Ameluz 
10% and Metvix and in ALA-AK-CT003 13.5% and 9.1% for placebo and Ameluz 10%, respectively). 
The main reason for withdrawal was lost to follow up (Table 29). 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 51/57
 
 
 
 
 
Table 29. Study subject withdrawals in follow-up studies 
Placebo 
n (%) 
76 (100.0%) 
64 (84.2% 
4 (5.3%) 
0 (0.0% 
0 (0.0% 
3 (3.9%) 
1 (1.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
41 (100.0%) 
32 (86.5%) 
5 (13.5%) 
4 (10.8%) 
1 (2.7%) 
BF-200 ALA 
10% 
n (%) 
248 (100.0%) 
233 (94.0%) 
8 (3.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
3 (1.2%) 
3 (1.2%) 
81 (100.0%) 
70 (90.9%) 
7 (9.1%) 
6 (7.8%) 
1 (1.3%) 
Metvix 
n (%) 
246 (100.0%) 
231 (93.9%) 
9 (3.7%) 
1 (0.4%) 
3 (1.2%) 
3 (1.2%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Phase 
Study number 
Reason for withdrawal 
ALA-AK-CT002 
Completion of follow-up 
Premature termination total 
Adverse event 
Death 
Lost to follow-up 
Subject’s decision 
Missing reason 
ALA-AK-CT003 
Completion of follow-up 
Premature termination total 
Lost to follow-up 
Subject’s decision 
Abbreviations: N/A = not applicable 
Post marketing experience 
Not available. 
2.6.1 Discussion on clinical safety 
High  rates  of  application  site  disorders  were  seen  with  treatment  with  BF  200-ALA  which  is  expected 
based on the known mechanism of action as a locally acting treatment (PDT) for AK lesions. 
The  most  common  adverse  events  reported  were  erythema,  irritation,  oedema  and  pain.    Similar 
application  site  disorders  TEAE  rates  were  seen  between  BF-200-ALA  vs  Metvix  and  it  therefore 
appears to have a similar safety profile. However, a single patient discontinued study participation due 
to the occurrence of TEAE following treatment with Ameluz 10% (non-serious application site pain and 
non-serious application site irritation (both severe) after treatment in PDT1). 
In ALA AK CT002 study rates of severe TEAEs were similar in the Ameluz 10% and Metvix treatment 
groups, 41.9% and 41.5% respectively.  
Most  adverse  reactions  occur  during  illumination  or  shortly  afterwards.  The  symptoms  are  usually  of 
mild or moderate intensity, and last for 1 to 4 days in most cases; in some cases, however, they may 
persist for 1 to 2 weeks or even longer. In rare cases, the adverse reactions may require interruption 
or discontinuation of the illumination.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). 
The incidence of adverse events was higher in the first PDT versus a subsequent treatment. However 
not  all  patients  required  a  second  PDT  treatment.  It  could  be  that  the  cohort  requiring  a  second 
treatment were less likely to experience an adverse event rather than that the likelihood of an adverse 
event fell with repeated treatment.  
There does not appear to be strong evidence showing any relationship between age and the frequency 
of application site disorders 
There  appears  to  be  a  relationship  between  application  site  disorders  and  narrow  spectrum  light 
source. As a higher incidence of applications site reactions occurred for first and second PDT sessions 
in patients receiving narrow beam versus broad beam light sources.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 52/57
 
 
 
The  cohort  of  patients  included  in  the  clinical  trials  programme  excluded  patients  who  were 
immunosuppressed  or  receiving  immunosuppressant  drugs  or  with  a  confirmed  diagnosis  of  HIV. 
People  who  are  immune-suppressed  are  more  likely  to  undergo  malignant  transformation  of  their 
actinic keratosis and therefore more likely to need treatment to prevent transformation.  
No experience exists for the treatment of basal cell carcinoma and Bowens’s disease, which should 
therefore not be treated with the product. 
Furthermore there is no experience of treating severe actinic keratoses or lesions which are pigmented 
or highly infiltrating and treating actinic keratosis lesions in patients with dark brown or black skin 
(skin sun sensitivity type V or VI according to Fitzpatrick). 
The success and assessment of treatment may be impaired if the treated area is affected by the 
presence of skin diseases (skin inflammation, located infection, psoriasis, excema, and benign or 
malignant skin cancers) as well as tattoos. No experience exists with these situations. 
Any UV-therapy should be discontinued before treatment. As a general precaution, sun exposure on 
the treated lesion sites and surrounding skin should be avoided for approximately 48 hours following 
treatment. 
Ameluz is contraindicated in patients with porphyria and known photodermatoses of varying pathology 
and  frequency,  e.g.  metabolic  disorders  such  as  aminoaciduria,  idiopathic  or  immunological  disorders 
such  as  polymorphic  light  reaction,  genetic  disorders  such  as  xeroderma  pigmentosum,  and  diseases 
precipitated  or  aggravated  by  exposure  to  sun  light  such  as  lupus  erythematoides  or  phemphigus 
erythemtoides.  
Overdose following topical administration is unlikely and has not been reported in clinical studies. If 
Ameluz is accidentally ingested, systemic toxicity is unlikely. Protection from sun light exposure for 48 
hours and observation are nevertheless recommended. 
2.6.2 Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The safety profile of BF-ALA-200 is considered acceptable. Overall the majority of adverse events were 
localised skin reactions, erythema, pain, oedema and irritation which were usually mild to moderate in 
severity and self limiting.  
The  more  intense  and  higher  number  of  adverse  reactions  correlated  with  the  higher  efficacy  rates 
observed when patients were irradiated with the narrow spectrum device. 
The  adverse  events  recorded  appear  to  be  consistent  between  the  studies  and  are  expected  as  a 
localised form of PDT treatment of AK lesions. 
2.7 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 53/57
 
 
 
Table 30: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern  
Important identified risk: 
  Application site 
reactions 
Important potential risks: 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional)  
Proposed risk minimization 
activities  
(routine and additional)  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities are considered 
sufficient and no further actions 
are required. 
Important identified and 
potential risks are adequately 
described in the product 
information.  
  Severe application site 
reaction in combination 
with photosensitizing 
medication or in 
patients with 
photodermatoses 
The use in elderly patients and 
the respective safety profile will 
be discussed as part of the 
overall safety evaluation in post 
authorization PSURs 
  Application site 
hypersensitivity 
  Rate of infections/ 
infestations: 
nasopharyngitis 
  Recurrence rate in 
treated lesions 
Case reports associated with 
potential risks will be evaluated 
as events of special interest in 
the PSUR. 
Application site reactions are 
described in section 4.8 of the 
SmPC.  
Hypersensitivity to ALA, 
porphyrins and excipients is 
listed as contraindication in 
section 4.3 of the SmPC.   
Photodermatoses and porphyria 
are listed as contra-indication in 
section 4.3 of the SmPC.  
Risks associated with 
concomitant treatment with 
photosensitizing medication are 
described in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC.  
None for rate of 
infections/infestations: 
nasopharyngitis.  
None for recurrence rate in 
treated lesions. 
Important missing information: 
 
Treatment of patients 
with 
immunosuppression 
  Safety in patients with 
skin type I 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities are considered 
sufficient and no further actions 
are required.  
Lack of experience in the 
immunosuppressed patient 
group is described in section 4.4 
of the SmPC.  
Case reports in patients 
receiving immune-suppression 
and in patients with skin type I 
will be evaluated as events of 
special interest in the PSUR. 
None for safety in patients with 
skin type I.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.8 User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 54/57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Two pivotal trials were submitted in support of the efficacy of Ameluz in patients with actinic keratosis 
of mild to moderate intensity on the face and scalp.  
In  study  ALA-AK-CT002  the  61.1%  (95%  CI:  51.2;  71.0)  difference  on  complete  clearance  12  weeks 
after the last PDT treatment between the two treatment groups was statistically significant (p0.0001), 
demonstrating superiority of Ameluz to placebo. This effect was further substantiated by results in the 
main secondary efficacy endpoint: total clearance rates were higher for Ameluz (90.4%) compared to 
Metvix (83.2%) and placebo (37.1%).  
In study ALA-AK-CT003, 53 (66.3%) subjects in the Ameluz group and 5 (12.5%) in the placebo group 
showed complete clearance 12 weeks after the last PDT treatment. In the PP population, 49 (63.6%) 
subjects in the Ameluz group and 4 (10.8%) in the placebo group showed complete clearance. In both 
analysis, the difference between the 2 treatment groups (53.8% points in the FAS population and 52.8 
% in the PP population) was statistically significant (P<0.0001) demonstrating superiority of Ameluz to 
placebo. 
This effect supported by the results in the main secondary efficacy endpoint: total lesion clearance was 
higher for Ameluz (81.1%) compared to placebo (20.9%). 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
There are adequate data to assess the beneficial effects of the product. There are no important 
uncertainties in the knowledge about beneficial effects. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The  most  common  adverse  events  reported  were  erythema,  irritation,  oedema  and  pain.    For  the 
majority, the localised skin reactions were mild to moderate, self limiting and recovered after 1 week.  
Using  a  narrow  spectrum  red  light  source  resulted  in  a  higher  rate  of  skin  irritation  at  the  treatment 
site; however this results also in better efficacy. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
There are adequate data to assess the unfavourable effects of the product. There are no important 
uncertainties in the knowledge about unfavourable effects. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Clinical  benefits  of  Ameluz  treatment  of  actinic  keratosis  clearly  exceed  the  few  and  mostly  mild 
adverse effects. With better efficacy and slightly better safety profile than the standard treatment with 
the licensed comparator product the benefit-risk balance for Ameluz is clearly positive.  
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 55/57
 
 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Complete  AK  clearance  is  a  relevant  clinical  endpoint.  The  results  are  considered  to  be  robust, 
consistent, and of clinical relevance.  
The safety profile is considered acceptable. Local adverse effects like irritation with erythema and pain 
were  the  most  predominant  unfavourable  effects  after  treatment  with  Ameluz.  In  most  of  the  cases, 
only mild or moderate degree effects which were completely reversible were noted.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Clinical  benefits  of  Ameluz  treatment  of  actinic  keratosis  clearly  exceed  the  few  and  mostly  mild 
adverse effects. The benefit-risk balance for Ameluz is clearly positive.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers that the risk-
benefit balance of Ameluz in the treatment of actinic keratosis is favourable and therefore recommends 
the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in version 3 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 56/57
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Braathen, L. R., Szeimies, R. M., Basset-Seguin, N., Bissonnette, R., Foley, P., Pariser, D., Roelandts, 
R., Wennberg, A. M., and Morton, C. A. Guidelines on the use of photodynamic therapy for 
nonmelanoma skin cancer: an international consensus. J.Am.Acad.Dermatol. 56(1), 125-143. 2007. 
2. Dalton, J. T., Yates, C. R., Yin, D., Straughn, A., Marcus, S. L., Golub, A. L., and Meyer, M. C. 
Clinical pharmacokinetics of 5-aminolaevulinic acid in healthy volunteers and patients at high risk for 
recurrent bladder cancer. J Pharmacol.Exp.Ther. 301(2), 507-512. 2002. 
3. Fuchs, J., Weber, S., and Kaufmann, R. Genotoxic potential of porphyrin type photosensitizers with 
particular emphasis on 5-aminolevulinic acid: implications for clinical photodynamic therapy. Free 
Radic.Biol.Med 28(4), 537-548. 2000. 
4. Gaullier, J. M., Berg, K., Peng, Q., Anholt, H., Selbo, P. K., Ma, L. W., and Moan, J. Use of 5 
aminolaevulinic acid esters to improve photodynamic therapy on cells in culture. Cancer Res. 57(8), 
1481-1486. 1997. 
5. Glogau, R. G. The risk of progression to invasive disease. J Am.Acad.Dermatol 42(1 Pt 2), 23-24. 
2000. 
6. Gorchein, A. and Webber, R. delta-Aminolaevulinic acid in plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva and 
erythrocytes: studies in normal, uraemic and porphyric subjects. Clin Sci.(Lond) 72(1), 103-112. 1987. 
7. Hauschild, A., Stockfleth, E., Popp, G., Borrosch, F., Bruning, H., Dominicus, R., Mensing, H., 
Reinhold, U., Reich, K., Moor, A. C., Stocker, M., Ortland, C., Brunnert, M., and Szeimies, R. M. 
Optimization of photodynamic therapy with a novel self-adhesive 5-aminolaevulinic acid patch: results 
of two randomized controlled phase III studies. Br J Dermatol 160(5), 1066-1074. 2009. 
8. Kappas, A., Sassa, S., Galbraith, R. A., and Nordmann, Y. The Porphyrias. The metabolic basis of 
inherited disease 1(66), 2103-2159. 1995. 
9. Kennedy, J. C. and Pottier, R. H. Endogenous protoporphyrin IX, a clinically useful photosensitizer 
for photodynamic therapy. J Photochem.Photobiol.B 14(4), 275-292. 1992. 
10. Memon, A. A., Tomenson, J. A., Bothwell, J., and Friedmann, P. S. Prevalence of solar damage and 
actinic keratosis in a Merseyside population. Br J Dermatol 142(6), 1154-1159. 2000. 
11. Mustajoki, P., Timonen, K., Gorchein, A., Seppalainen, A. M., Matikainen, E., and Tenhunen, R. 
Sustained high plasma 5-aminolaevulinic acid concentration in a volunteer: no porphyric symptoms. 
Eur J Clin Invest 22(6), 407-411. 1992. 
12. O'Flaherty, E. J., Hammond, P. B., Lerner, S. I., Hanenson, I. B., and Roda, S. M. The renal 
handling of delta-aminolaevulinic acid in the rat and in the human. Toxicol.Appl.Pharmacol. 55(3), 423-
432. 1980. 
13. Peng, Q., Berg, K., Moan, J., Kongshaug, M., and Nesland, J. M. 5-Aminolaevulinic acidbased 
photodynamic therapy: principles and experimental research. Photochem.Photobiol. 65(2), 235-251. 
1997. 
14. Salasche, S. J. Epidemiology of actinic keratoses and squamous cell carcinoma. Am.Acad.Dermatol 
42(1 Pt 2), 4-7. 2000. 
BF-200 ALA 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 57/57
 
 
 
 
