EMA/196798/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004212 
EPAR summary for the public 
Amgevita 
adalimumab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Amgevita. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Amgevita. 
For practical information about using Amgevita, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Amgevita and what is it used for? 
Amgevita is a medicine that acts on the immune system and is used to treat the following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin)  
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin with inflammation of the joints) 
rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints) 
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain), including ankylosing 
spondylitis and when there is no damage on X-ray but clear signs of inflammation 
•  Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the gut) 
•  ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut) 
• 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and active enthesitis-related arthritis (both rare diseases 
causing inflammation in the joints) 
•  hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa), a chronic skin disease that causes lumps, abscesses 
(collections of pus) and scarring on the skin 
•  non-infectious uveitis (inflammation of the layer beneath the white of the eyeball). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Amgevita is mostly used in adults when their conditions are severe, moderately severe or getting 
worse, or when patients cannot use other treatments. For detailed information on the use of Amgevita 
in all conditions, including when it can be used in children, see the summary of product characteristics 
(also part of the EPAR). 
Amgevita contains the active substance adalimumab and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that 
Amgevita is highly similar to a biological medicine (also known as the ‘reference medicine’) that is 
already authorised in the European Union (EU). The reference medicine for Amgevita is Humira. For 
more information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Amgevita used? 
Amgevita can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by 
specialist doctors experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of the conditions for which it is 
authorised. Doctors treating uveitis should also take advice from doctors who have experience of using 
Amgevita.  
The medicine is available as a solution for injection under the skin in a pre-filled syringe or pen. The 
dose depends on the condition to be treated and in children is usually calculated according to the 
child’s weight and height. After the starting dose, Amgevita is most often given every two weeks, but it 
may be given every week in certain situations. After training, patients or their carers may inject 
Amgevita if their doctor considers it appropriate. Patients may be given other medicines during 
treatment with Amgevita, such as methotrexate or corticosteroids (other anti‑inflammatory 
medicines). 
For information on the doses to be used for each condition and other information on the use of 
Amgevita, see the package leaflet. 
How does Amgevita work? 
The active substance in Amgevita, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to a chemical messenger in the body called tumour necrosis 
factor (TNF). This messenger is involved in causing inflammation and is found at high levels in patients 
with the diseases that Amgevita is used to treat. By attaching to TNF, adalimumab blocks its activity, 
thereby reducing inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Amgevita have been shown in studies? 
Extensive laboratory studies comparing Amgevita with Humira have shown that adalimumab in 
Amgevita is highly similar to adalimumab in Humira in terms of chemical structure, purity and 
biological activity.  
Because Amgevita is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety carried out for 
Humira do not all need to be repeated for Amgevita. 
The medicine has been shown to have similar effects to Humira in one main study involving 526 
patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis that had not responded adequately to 
methotrexate, and in another main study in 350 patients with moderate to severe psoriasis.  
In the rheumatoid arthritis study, response was measured as a 20% or more improvement in symptom 
score after 24 weeks of treatment: 75% of those given Amgevita responded, compared with 72% of 
those given Humira. In the psoriasis study, which looked at the degree of improvement after 16 
Amgevita  
EMA/196798/2017 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
weeks, there was an 81% improvement in symptom score with Amgevita compared with an 83% 
improvement with Humira. 
What are the risks associated with Amgevita? 
The most common side effects with adalimumab (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are infections in 
the nose and throat, sinuses and upper respiratory tract, injection site reactions (redness, itching, 
bleeding, pain or swelling), headache and muscle and bone pain. 
Amgevita and other medicines of its class may also affect the ability of the immune system to fight off 
infections and cancer, and there have been some cases of serious infections and blood cancers in 
patients using adalimumab. 
Other rare serious side effects (seen in between 1 in 10,000 and 1 in 1,000 patients) include failure of 
bone marrow to produce blood cells, disorder of the nerves, lupus and lupus-like conditions (where the 
immune system attacks the patient’s own tissues, causing inflammation and organ damage), and 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (a serious skin condition). 
Amgevita must not be used in patients with active tuberculosis or other severe infections, or in 
patients with moderate to severe heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump enough blood around 
the body). For the full list of restrictions with Amgevita, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Amgevita approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that, in accordance 
with EU requirements for biosimilar medicines, Amgevita has a highly similar structure, purity and 
biological activity to Humira and is distributed in the body in the same way.  
In addition, studies in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis have shown that the effects of the medicine 
are equivalent to those of Humira in these conditions. All these data were considered sufficient to 
conclude that Amgevita will behave in the same way as Humira in terms of effectiveness and safety in 
its approved indications. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Humira, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Amgevita be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Amgevita? 
The company that markets Amgevita must provide educational packs for doctors who will prescribe the 
medicine. These packs will include information on the safety of the medicine and an alert card to be 
given to patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Amgevita have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Amgevita 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Amgevita on 22 March 2017. 
The full EPAR for Amgevita can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Amgevita, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Amgevita  
EMA/196798/2017 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 03-2017. 
Amgevita  
EMA/196798/2017 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
