24 May 2018 
EMA/172099/2018  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
of an orphan medicinal product submitted for marketing authorisation 
application 
Amglidia (glibenclamide) 
Treatment of neonatal diabetes 
EU/3/15/1589 (EMA/OD/149/15) 
Sponsor: AMMTeK  
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage .......................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 27 February 2018 .......................................... 8 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Glibenclamide 
Glibenclamide 
Treatment of neonatal diabetes 
Oral suspension   
Oral use 
A10BB01 
AMMTeK  
15 rue Béranger 
75003 Paris 
France 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
AMMTeK  
12 November 2015 
15 January 2016 
EU/3/15/1589 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from AMMTeK to Pharma Services - EC 
decision of 27 September 2016 
2nd transfer from Pharma Services to AMMTeK - EC 
decision of 10 February 2017 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
M. Weise, A. Gyurasics 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
AMMTeK  
6 October 2016 
27 October 2016 
EMA/H/C/004379 
Amglidia 
AMGLIDIA is indicated for the treatment of neonatal 
diabetes mellitus, for use in newborns, infants and 
children. Sulphonylureas like AMGLIDIA have been 
shown to be effective in patients with mutations in 
the genes coding for the β-cell ATP-sensitive 
potassium channel and chromosome 6q24-related 
transient neonatal diabetes mellitus 
Further information on Amglidia can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public 
CHMP opinion date 
assessment reports.  
22 February 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
F. Nauman-Winter, K. Westermark 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
6 October 2016 
COMP discussion  
5-7 December 2017 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
COMP opinion date 
27 February 2018 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2016 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing glibenclamide was 
considered justified based on preliminary data in paediatric patients with the condition showing 
improved glycaemic control without increasing hypoglycaemia risk;  
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to hyperglycemia which include 
symptoms such as thirst, frequent urination, and dehydration. In severe cases this is associated 
with ketoacidosis which can led to death;   
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 0.01 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing may be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The sponsor has 
provided clinical data that demonstrate that when glibenclamide is used in the treatment of 
patients with neonatal diabetes there is a reduction or elimination of the use of insulin. The 
Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) is a rare form of diabetes characterized by hyperglycemia occurring 
in the first few months of life. It can present as either transient NDM (TNDM), which resolves by a few 
months, or permanent NDM (PNDM), which continues throughout life. The etiology of this disease 
remained unclear until recently, when advances in molecular genetic techniques illuminated the 
mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. While most TNDM cases are caused by the 
overexpression of chromosome 6q24, the majority of PNDM cases are due to mutations in the 
adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel. (Research and Reports in Neonatology 
2014:4 55–64). The condition is well described in the literature which clearly differentiates it from Type 
1 and Type 2 diabetes linking the condition to a dysfunctioning of the beta cell due to a specific gene 
mutation. The aetiology of the condition is therefore different from the more commonly diagnosed 
forms of diabetes. 
The COMP designated this condition as a distinct medical entity. 
The approved therapeutic indication “AMGLIDIA is indicated for the treatment of neonatal diabetes 
mellitus, for use in newborns, infants and children. Sulphonylureas like AMGLIDIA have been shown to 
be effective in patients with mutations in the genes coding for the β-cell ATP-sensitive potassium 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
channel and chromosome 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus.” falls within the scope of 
the designated orphan indication “neonatal diabetes”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment the intention to treat the condition has been justified.  
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Symptoms of Neonatal diabetes include thirst, frequent urination, and dehydration. NDM can be 
diagnosed by finding elevated levels of glucose in blood or urine. In severe cases, the deficiency of 
insulin may cause the body to produce an excess of acid, resulting in a potentially life-threatening 
condition called ketoacidosis. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has provided a literature search covering 5 publications ranging from 1999 to 2012. Of 
these 5 publications only 4 were considered as the one from Bappal et al from 1999 was based on data 
from Oman which although supportive does not directly reflect data collected in Europe as the 
incidence reported in Oman is 1 in 45,000 and is one of the highest in the world. The other four 
publications where based on data collected in Germany, Austria, Italy, Slovakia, UK, the Netherlands 
and Poland. The sponsor highlighted that few publications exist on the prevalence of NDM and that 
they describe transient and permanent forms of neonatal diabetes each representing half of the 
reported cases. Transients cases have been reported to last up to 6 months from birth, permanent 
cases may last longer with some reports stating they may go into adulthood. Many transient forms 
have been linked to mutations of ABCC8 while permanent forms to mutations of KCNJ11 (although 
some transient forms have been associated with this mutation).  
The data used in the 4 publications are derived from:  
•  A large representative database for paediatric diabetes patients in Germany and Austria (Grulich-
Henn, 2010). Based on the continuous diabetes data acquisition system for prospective 
surveillance, which includes 51,587 patients with onset of diabetes before the age of 18 years from 
299 centres in Germany and Austria. 
• 
Iafusco et al in 2012 reported reviewing patients referred to the Italian reference laboratory for 
neonatal diabetes between years 2005 and 2010 and screened for mutations in common NDM 
genes (KCNJ11 , ABCC8 , and INS ) and for uniparental isodisomy of chromosome 6 (UDP6). A 
questionnaire aimed at identifying ND cases investigated in other laboratories was sent to 54 
Italian reference centres for paediatric diabetes.  
•  A Slovakian team having reviewed the Slovak Children Diabetes Registry to find NDM patients 
(Stanik, 2007). 
•  Slingerland et al 2009 report data obtained from the Exeter Peninsula Molecular Genetics 
Laboratory based at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital (Exeter, UK) which began recruiting 
patients worldwide prior to the discovery reported in 2004 that KCNJ11 mutations are the most 
common cause of NDM. The highest referral rates are in the UK, the Netherlands and Poland, 
where there have been considerable educational initiatives to inform clinicians of the free-of-charge 
diagnostic service. 
The sponsor derives from these publications that the highest reported incidence of neonatal diabetes is 
1 in 90,000 with the lowest reported incidence being 1 in 260,000 for the KCNJ11 mutation which is 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
the most common type reported by Slingerland et al. The highest reported incidence is still half of the 
reported incidence in Oman which is 1 in 45,000.  
The sponsor then makes an assumption of the population of the 59 children born each year with the 
condition will make it to 18 years of age. They mix “transient” and “permanent” forms in these 59 
children born each and assume all will survive to the age of 18 years. From this they establish that 
1062 patients could represent the highest point prevalence for all the mutations associated with the 
condition whether they are clinically manifesting or not. The 1062 patients were then divided by the 
total population of the European Union which they propose to be 512 million in 2016. A prevalence of 
0.02 in 10,000 was then proposed which was accepted by the COMP.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
At the time of designation the COMP was of the opinion that insulin was indicated for use in this 
condition although it was acknowledged that the SmPCs do not specifically identify the condition in the 
wording of the indication. As this form of diabetes occurs within the first 6 months of life and insulin is 
the only product authorised for use in children it was considered that the indication of insulin in section 
4.1 of the SmPC for Humalog which states: “For the treatment of adults and children with diabetes 
mellitus who require insulin for the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis. Insulin is also 
indicated for the initial stabilisation of diabetes mellitus.” and Section 4.2 which covers posology and 
the population to be treated states: “Paediatric population Humalog can be used in adolescents and 
children” would cover this population. The COMP was of the opinion that an indication for “diabetes 
mellitus” would cover the term neonatal diabetes mellitus.  
The use of glibenclamide and other sulphylureas is specifically contraindicated for use in the paediatric 
population. Section 4.2 of the SmPC for glibenclamide for example states that: “Children: 
Glibenclamide is not recommended for use in children”. This contraindication in children is also found 
for other sulphonylureas. 
Significant benefit 
The marketing authorisation application to the CHMP is based on well-established use.  
To support the significant benefit the sponsor used the same bibliographic data used at the time of 
orphan designation. Indeed, the submission for the market authorisation includes this same publication 
which is based on work done by the sponsor. Two articles are of interest for the purpose of 
understanding the impact of using a sulphonylurea in the treatment of this condition on top of insulin 
use. Both articles were published in the New England Journal of Medicine (Babenko et al N Engl J Med 
2006;355:456-66 and Pearson et al N Engl J Med 2006;355:467-77).  
Babenko et al describes the use of glibenclamide in a section of patients which make up a cohort of 34 
patients who were treated with either glibenclamide or glipizide. In the article the authors describe first 
the identification of patients with a specific mutation for this condition. The patients were on insulin at 
the time of inclusion and were given glibenclamide. The efficacy of glibenclamide was measured based 
on glucose levels and insulin was discontinued when satisfactory metabolic control was achieved. The 
authors’ state in this paper: “Initial insulin treatment was required for 1, 2.5, 3, 4, 4, 8.5, and 10 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
months in probands with transient neonatal diabetes in Families 16, 34, 17, 19, 13, 36, and 28, 
respectively. The last documented dose of insulin varied from 0.12 to 1.2 U per kilogram per day, with 
a mean of 0.67 U per kilogram per day. After identification of the mutations in the patients with 
permanent neonatal diabetes, glyburide (also known as glibenclamide) therapy was initiated and found 
to be successful and insulin was discontinued after 2 days in the proband from Family 12 and after 15 
days in the proband from Family 16. The current doses of glyburide are 0.59 and 0.22 mg per 
kilogram per day, respectively.” 
In Pearson et al the authors report that they assessed glycaemic control in 49 consecutive neonatal 
diabetes patients with Kir6.2 mutations who received appropriate doses of sulfonylureas. In the result 
section the authors report: “A total of 44 patients (90 percent) successfully discontinued insulin after 
receiving sulfonylureas. The extent of the tolbutamide blockade of KATP channels in vitro reflected the 
response seen in patients. Glycated hemoglobin levels improved in all patients who switched to 
sulfonylurea therapy (from 8.1 percent before treatment to 6.4 percent after 12 weeks of treatment, 
P<0.001). Improved glycemic control was sustained at one year. Sulfonylurea treatment increased 
insulin secretion, which was more highly stimulated by oral glucose or a mixed meal than by 
intravenous glucose. Exogenous glucagon increased insulin secretion only in the presence of 
sulfonylureas”. 
The COMP noted a third study published in 2015 by Beltrand et al, (GlidKir study). In this study, which 
included 19 patients diagnosed with this condition, patients were switched from insulin to a 
sulphonylurea. The authors of this paper report: “At baseline, hypotonia, deficiencies in gesture 
conception or realization, and attention disorders were common. SU improved HbA1c levels (median 
change 21.55% [range 23.8 to 0.1]; P < 0.0001), intelligence scores, hypotonia (in 12 of15 patients), 
visual attention deficits (in 10 of 13 patients), gross and fine motor skills (in all patients younger than 
4 years old), and gesture conception and realization (in 5 of 8 older patients). Electrophysiological 
muscle and nerve tests were normal. Cerebral MRI at baseline showed lesions in 12 patients, 
suggesting that the impairments were central in origin.” This third paper further substantiates the 
findings of the earlier two papers cited by the sponsor.  
All three papers show that the use of glibenclamide can reduce and eliminate the use of insulin and 
improve the metabolic control (HbA1c). This was shown in patients with both the transient and 
permanent forms of the condition. This can be considered as a clinically relevant advantage in the 
treatment of patients with the condition. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 27 February 2018 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of neonatal diabetes (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be 0.02 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria;the condition is life-threatening and 
chronically debilitating due to hyperglycemia which include symptoms such as thirst, frequent 
urination, and dehydration. In severe cases this is associated with ketoacidosis which can lead to 
death; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Amglidia may be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the 
orphan condition still holds. The sponsor has provided clinical data that demonstrate that when the 
age appropriate formulation of glibenclamide is used in the treatment of patients with neonatal 
diabetes, their metabolic control is improved and the need to use insulin is reduced or eliminated. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Amglidia, glibenclamide, 
EU/3/15/1589 for treatment of neonatal diabetes is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/172099/2018 
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
