EMA/123611/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004379 
Amglidia (glibenclamide) 
An overview of Amglidia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Amglidia and what is it used for? 
Amglidia is a medicine used to treat newborns and children with neonatal diabetes, a form of diabetes 
that occurs in the first 6 months of life and that requires treatment with insulin. Amglidia was shown to 
be effective in patients with whose disease was caused by certain genetic mutations.  
Amglidia contains the active substance glibenclamide. 
Neonatal diabetes is rare, and Amglidia was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 15 January 2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation 
Amglidia is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but is available in a different formulation. While the reference medicine Daonil 
is given as tablets, Amglidia is available as a liquid (suspension). 
How is Amglidia used? 
Amglidia should be started by a specialist experienced in the treatment of patients with very early 
onset diabetes and can only be obtained with a prescription. The medicine is available as a liquid to be 
taken by mouth using a syringe. It can be used with insulin and the recommended dose depends on 
the child’s bodyweight and blood glucose levels, and is split into two daily administrations. The dose is 
increased over the first 4 weeks until blood glucose levels are under control and as the dose is 
increased, it is usually possible to reduce and even stop the regular insulin. 
For more information about using Amglidia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Amglidia work? 
In many newborn babies with neonatal diabetes, the cells in the pancreas produce insulin but they are 
not able to release it into the blood to control the level of blood glucose. The lack of insulin in the blood 
causes symptoms of diabetes.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The active substance in Amglidia, glibenclamide, is a diabetes medicine that belongs to the class of 
sulfonylureas. It works on insulin-producing cells in the pancreas and attaches to channels on their 
surface called KATP channels, involved in triggering the release of insulin. By attaching to these 
channels, glibenclamide restores the cells`ability to release insulin into the blood, reducing the 
symptoms of diabetes. 
What benefits of Amglidia have been shown in studies? 
The company provided data from the published literature on glibenclamide given as crushed tablets. 
These data show that in patients who were switched from insulin to glibenclamide, blood glucose 
remained controlled over time (measured as glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c)). 
A study evaluated 10 children with neonatal diabetes who were treated with glibenclamide given as 
crushed tablets and who were switched to the oral suspension. Blood glucose remained under control 
whether patients were taking crushed tablets or oral suspension. 
In addition, a study involving 18 healthy adults showed that glibenclamide given as a suspension 
produced a similar level of glibenclamide in the body as glibenclamide given as crushed tablets.  
What are the risks associated with Amglidia? 
The most common side effects with Amglidia (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels), diarrhoea and abdominal pain (stomach ache). The most 
serious side effect is hypoglycaemia. For the full list of side effects of Amglidia, see the package leaflet. 
Amglidia must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to glibenclamide, other 
sulphonylureas or any of the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have complications 
of diabetes (diabetic ketoacidosis), take the medicine bosentan, have porphyria (an inability to break 
down chemicals called porphyrins) or have severe problems with their liver or kidneys. For the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Amglidia authorised in the EU? 
Glibenclamide has been used to treat neonatal diabetes for many years, however it was not licensed 
for this use and an age-appropriate formulation was not available. Although limited, available data 
show that sulfonylureas such as glibenclamide have beneficial effects on blood glucose levels in 
patients with neonatal diabetes and allow their regular insulin use to be reduced or stopped. In terms 
of side effects, these are widely known and considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency 
therefore decided that Amglidia’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Amglidia? 
The company that markets Amglidia will issue educational materials for healthcare professionals with 
detailed information on the different presentations available and how to avoid mix-ups between them.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Amglidia have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Amglidia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Amglidia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Amglidia (glibenclamide)  
EMA/123611/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Amglidia 
Amglidia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24.05.2018. 
Further information on Amglidia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2018. 
Amglidia (glibenclamide)  
EMA/123611/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
