22 August 2018 
EMA/133231/2018 
Guide to be given to prescribers to ensure Amglidia is 
used correctly  
Guide will increase awareness on the different medicine presentations and 
help avoid medication errors  
All healthcare professionals who are expected to prescribe Amglidia (glibenclamide oral suspension) 
will be provided with a guide to help ensure that the medicine is prescribed and used correctly.  
Amglidia is a medicine used for the treatment of neonatal diabetes, a form of diabetes that occurs in 
the first 6 months of life.  
Amglidia is available as an oral suspension in two strengths: 0.6 mg/ml and 6 mg/ml, and each 
strength is available in two presentations: either with a 1-ml oral syringe or with a 5-ml oral 
syringe.The strength and the size of the oral syringe to be used depends on the dose prescribed. It is 
important that only the syringe provided with the pack is used to measure Amglidia. 
Dosing errors may occur due to confusion between milligram (mg) and millilitre (ml), or use of 
incorrect strength or size of syringe and how the dose is measured, which may result in too high or too 
low blood sugar levels.  
To avoid medication errors, prescribers will be given a guide specifying which strength and 
presentation to use and what details to include on each prescription. 
Information for parents and carers 
•  Amglidia is used to treat neonatal diabetes, a form of diabetes that occurs in the first 6 months of 
life. It is a liquid to be given by mouth and is available in two strengths: 0.6 mg/ml and 6 mg/ml. 
Each strength is available in two presentations: either with a 1-ml oral syringe or with a 5-ml oral 
syringe (see picture below). 
•  Amglidia is given twice a day. The dose is prescribed in millilitre (ml) according to body weight. 
When prescribing the medicine, the doctor will also specify the strength of Amglidia and the correct 
size of the oral syringe to give this dose accurately.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amglidia 0.6 mg/ml, with 1 ml syringe        
 Amglidia 0.6 mg/ml, with 5 ml syringe  
Amglidia 6 mg/ml, with 1 ml syringe  
Amglidia 6 mg/ml, with 5 ml syringe  
• 
• 
• 
Parents and carers will be advised by their healthcare professional on how to draw up the medicine 
into the oral syringe and give a dose to the child. 
Parents and carers should use only the oral syringe provided with the package to measure the dose 
of Amglidia. 
Parents and carers should always use Amglidia as advised by the doctor. Parents and carers should 
speak to a doctor or pharmacist if they have any questions about the treatment. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  Amglidia is an oral suspension available in two strengths: 0.6 mg/ml and 6 mg/ml. There are two 
presentations for each strength: one with an oral syringe of 1 ml and one with an oral syringe of 5 
ml (see picture above).  
•  Amglidia 0.6 mg/ml strength should only be used for doses up to 0.6 mg/kg daily. This is to limit 
the exposure to the sodium benzoate excipient. Amglidia 6 mg/ml should be used for doses higher 
than 0.6 mg/kg daily. 
Guide to be given to prescribers to ensure Amglidia is used correctly  
EMA/133231/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The choice of the oral syringe depends on the volume per dose: 
− 
− 
If the volume per dose is equal to or less than 1 ml, the 1-ml oral syringe should be 
prescribed; 
If the volume per dose is more than 1 ml, the 5-ml oral syringe should be prescribed. 
•  Only the oral syringe provided with the package should be used to measure the dose of Amglidia. 
• 
The prescription should include all of the following details: 
− 
strength of Amglidia, 
−  daily dose of Amglidia in ml, 
− 
volume in ml to be given for each dose, 
−  how many doses are given each day, 
− 
size of the oral syringe to be used.  
•  Healthcare professionals should explain to the parent or carer that the dose of Amglidia is 
prescribed in ml according to the patient’s body weight. Healthcare professionals should also 
explain that the dose is to be given with the oral syringe graduated in ml, provided in the pack.  
• 
• 
Pharmacists should ensure that the correct strength of Amglidia and the correct size of oral syringe 
are dispensed. 
If the patient is switched to a different strength or a different oral syringe is appropriate, the 
prescriber should highlight to the parent or carer the packaging differences and carefully explain 
how to measure the new dose.  
More about the medicine 
Amglidia is a diabetes medicine used for neonatal diabetes, a form of diabetes that occurs in the first 6 
months of life and that requires treatment with insulin. Once Amglidia is started, it is usually possible 
to reduce and even stop the dose of insulin the patient is already receiving. Amglidia is effective in 
patients with specific genetic mutations (beta-cell ATP-sensitive potassium channel and chromosome 
6q24).  
The active substance in Amglidia, glibenclamide, is a diabetes medicine that belongs to the class of 
sulfonylureas. It works on insulin-producing cells in the pancreas and attaches to special channels on 
their surface called ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP channels), through which potassium ions 
normally enter the cells and trigger the release of insulin. Glibenclamide's effect on the KATP channel 
restores the cells' ability to release insulin into the blood.  
More information on Amglidia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine. 
Guide to be given to prescribers to ensure Amglidia is used correctly  
EMA/133231/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
