EMA/196211/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005839 
Amifampridine Serb (amifampridine) 
An overview of Amifampridine Serb  and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Amifampridine Serb and what is it used for? 
Amifampridine Serb is a medicine used to treat the  symptoms of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome 
(LEMS)  in adults. LEMS  is a disease in which  patients have muscle weakness because of a failure of the 
nerves to transmit electrical impulses to  the muscles. 
Amifampridine Serb contains the  active substance amifampridine and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that  Amifampridine Serb contains the  same active substance and works in the same way as a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the  EU called Firdapse. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Amifampridine Serb used? 
Amifampridine Serb can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment with  this  medicine should 
only be started under the supervision of a doctor experienced in treating LEMS. 
The recommended starting dose of Amifampridine Serb is 15 mg per day, which can be increased by 5 
mg every four to five days up to a maximum of 60 mg per day. Amifampridine Serb is taken in divided 
doses, three or four times a day, and a single dose should not be more than  20 mg. Amifampridine 
Serb should be taken with  food.  
For more information about using Amifampridine Serb, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Amifampridine Serb work? 
For muscles to  contract, nerves have to transmit electrical impulses to  the muscles through  a chemical 
messenger called acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is released from the nerve endings during a period of 
‘depolarisation’. The active substance in Amifampridine Serb, amifampridine, is a potassium channel 
blocker, which prevents charged potassium particles from leaving the nerve cells. This prolongs the 
period of depolarisation, allowing more time for the nerves to release acetylcholine and so stimulate 
the muscles to contract.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Amifampridine Serb been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with  the reference medicine, Firdapse, and do not need to  be repeated for Amifampridine 
Serb.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality  of Amifampridine Serb. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Amifampridine Serb is absorbed similarly to 
the reference medicine to produce the  same level of the active substance in the  blood. This is because 
the composition of Amifampridine Serb is the same as the reference medicine and the active substance 
in both  products is expected to  be absorbed in the  same way. 
What are the benefits and risks of Amifampridine Serb? 
Because Amifampridine Serb is a generic medicine, its  benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Amifampridine Serb authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with  EU requirements, Amifampridine 
Serb has been shown to  be comparable to Firdapse. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that,  as for 
Firdapse, the benefits of Amifampridine Serb outweigh the identified  risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Amifampridine Serb? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Amifampridine Serb have been included in the  summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Amifampridine Serb are continuously monitored. Suspected 
side effects reported with  Amifampridine Serb are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken 
to protect patients. 
Other information about Amifampridine Serb 
Amifampridine Serb received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  EU on <date of issue of 
the Marketing Authorisation>. 
Further information on Amifampridine Serb can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/amifampridine-serb. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in  MM-YYYY. 
Amifampridine Serb (amifampridine)  
EMA/196211/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
