24 March 2022 
EMA/216122/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Amifampridine SERB  
International non-proprietary name: amifampridine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005839/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Legal basis, dossier content ................................................................................... 4 
1.3. Information on paediatric requirements................................................................... 5 
1.4. Information relating to orphan market exclusivity ..................................................... 5 
1.5. Scientific advice ................................................................................................... 5 
1.6. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 11 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 12 
2.5. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 14 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 15 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 15 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 16 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 16 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
BCS 
CFU 
DSC 
FT-IR 
GC 
HPLC 
ICH 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Colony Forming Units 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy 
Gas Chromatography 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International  Conference  on  Harmonisation of  Technical  Requirements  for 
Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
ICP-MS 
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry 
KF  
LEMS 
NMR 
Karl Fischer titration 
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
PVC 
PVDC 
SmPC 
USP 
UV 
Polyvinyl chloride 
Polyvinylidene chloride 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
XR(P)D 
X-Ray (Powder) Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  Applicant  SERB  SA  submitted on  29  April  2021  an  application  for  marketing  authorisation  to  the 
European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Amifampridine  SERB,  through  the  centralised  procedure  under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility 
to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 29 January 2021. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, 
for  which  a  marketing  authorisation  is  or  has  been  granted  in  the  Union  on  the  basis  of  a  complete 
dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The Applicant applied for the following indication Symptomatic treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic 
syndrome (LEMS) in adults. 
1.2.  Legal basis, dossier content  
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not 
less than 10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Firdapse, 10 mg, tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Serb SA 
Date of authorisation: 23.12.2009  
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/09/601/001 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Firdapse, 10 mg, tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Serb SA 
Date of authorisation: 23.12.2009  
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/09/601/001 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Not applicable as this application is submitted as a duplicate version of the reference medicinal product 
Firdapse 10 mg tablets, under the generic legal basis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.  Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
1.4.  Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
1.4.1.  Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the Applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan  medicinal  products  because  there  is  no  authorised  orphan  medicinal  product  for  a  condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
1.5.  Scientific advice 
The Applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
1.6.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and appointed by the CHMP were: Nevenka Trsinar Brodt 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
29 April 2021 
20 May 2021 
The CHMP Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP and 
9 August 2021 
PRAC members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC and 
23 August 2021 
CHMP members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the Applicant 
16 September 2021 
during the meeting on 
The  Applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of 
25 November 2021 
Questions on 
The  CHMP  Rapporteur  circulated  the  CHMP  and  PRAC  Rapporteurs  Joint 
29 December 2021 
Assessment Report on the Applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all 
CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP during 
13 January 2022 
the meeting on 
The  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding  issues  in  writing  and/or  in  an  oral 
27 January 2022 
explanation to be sent to the Applicant on 
The  Applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of 
22 February 2022 
Outstanding Issues on  
The  CHMP  Rapporteur  circulated  the  CHMP  and  PRAC  Rapporteurs  Joint 
09 March 2022 
Assessment  Report  on  the  responses  to  the  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  to  all 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP and PRAC members on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific discussion 
24 March 2022 
within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  marketing 
authorisation to Amifampridine SERB on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application for a marketing authorisation of Amifampridine SERB 10 mg tablets, concerns a generic 
application  according  to  Article  10(1)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  of  the  centrally  authorised  medicinal 
product Firdapse 10 mg tablets. This is the 1st generic application of the reference product Firdapse. 
SERB  S.A.  is  the  Applicant  of  this  generic  marketing  authorisation  application  and  the  marketing 
authorisation holder of the reference medicinal product. Therefore, this application is also a duplicate MA 
under the scope of Article 82(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The request for a duplicate MA on the 
ground of public health reasons was submitted to the European Commission (EC) on 21 January 2021 
and was granted on 19 March 2021. 
The Applicant has applied for the same indication as the originator: 
•  Amifampridine  SERB  is  indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  Lambert-Eaton  myasthenic 
syndrome (LEMS) in adults. 
To  support  this  application,  the  Applicant  has  justified  exemption  of  a  bioequivalence  study  for 
Amifampridine  SERB  10  mg  tablets  as  the  proposed  generic  medicinal  product  is  a  duplicate  of  the 
reference  medicinal  product  Firdapse  10  mg  tablets.  Amifampridine  SERB  10  mg  tablets  are 
manufactured  using  the  same  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  in  active  substance  and 
excipients, the same pharmaceutical form and are manufactured at the same manufacturing sites and 
to the same quality standards as the reference medicinal product. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction  
The finished product is presented as tablets containing 10 mg of  amifampridine. The product contains 
the amifampridine phosphate salt. 
Other ingredients are: microcrystalline cellulose, anhydrous colloidal silica and calcium stearate. 
The product is available in perforated unit dose blisters composed of thermoformed aluminium-PVC/PVDC 
laminate sheets as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
2.2.2.1.  General Information 
The chemical name of the active substance amifampridine phosphate is pyridine-3,4-diamine, phosphate 
salt corresponding to the molecular formula C5H10N3O4P (C5H7N3 x H3PO4). It has a relative molecular 
mass of 207.1 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of  amifampridine phosphate was elucidated by a combination of spectroscopic 
methods (1H- and 13C-NMR, FT-IR, UV spectroscopy), thermal analysis (Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
(DSC) and Thermal Gravimetric Analysis) and qualitative phosphate analysis. The solid-state properties 
of the active substance were measured by X-ray powder diffraction. 
The  active  substance  is  a  white  crystalline  powder.  Amifampridine  phosphate  is  soluble  in  water  and 
slightly soluble in organic solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide, glacial acetic acid and methanol. 
Amifampridine phosphate has a non - chiral molecular structure.  
Polymorphism has not been observed for the active substance.  
2.2.2.2.  Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Amifampridine phosphate is synthesized in four main steps using a well-defined starting material with 
acceptable  specifications.  The  active  substance  is  manufactured  by  one  manufacturing  site,  with 
additional sites involved for testing. 
The manufacturing process has been described in sufficient detail and the overall control strategy and 
the risk mitigation measures are adequate to control the process and ensure active substance of intended 
and consistent quality. Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications 
and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
Critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  proven  acceptable  ranges  were  established  for 
those process parameters. Intermediates are isolated after each step and are subject to release testing 
prior to use in the next step.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities is in accordance with the EU guideline on 
the Chemistry of Active Substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to 
their origin and characterised. Potential genotoxic impurities were addressed; The starting material and 
intermediates are considered structural alerts for possible genotoxicity and are all controlled as identified 
impurities in the active substance specification. 
Information  in  relation  to  residual  solvents  has  been  provided.  Residual  solvents  are  sufficiently 
controlled. Benzene, a possible contaminant in the solvents used, is adequately controlled. 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes  introduced  during  the  development  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  described  in 
sufficient detail and have been justified. The quality of the active substance used in the various phases 
of the development is comparable to that produced by the proposed commercial process. 
The primary packaging material complies with EC directive EC 10/2011 as amended.  
2.2.2.3.  Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for identity (FT-IR and identification of phosphates acc. 
Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), crystal polymorph (XRPD), appearance (visual), clarity and colour of solution 
(visual), solubility in water (visual), water content (KF), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC, 3 methods), 
residual solvent Ethanol (GC), palladium (ICP-MS), total aerobic count (Ph. Eur.) and yeasts and mould 
(Ph. Eur.). 
Limits for impurities have been set below the qualification threshold according to ICH Q3A and in line 
with the threshold of toxicological concern according to ICH M7. 
The  analytical  methods  proposed  are  suitable  to  control  the  quality  of  the  active  substance  and 
non-compendial  methods  have  been  appropriately  validated  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines. 
Satisfactory  information  regarding  the  reference  standards  used  for  assay  and  impurities  testing  has 
been presented. 
Batch analysis data (10 production scale batches) of the active substance has been provided. The results 
are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
2.2.2.4.  Stability 
Stability  data  from  six  production-scale  batches  of  active  substance  from  the proposed  manufacturer 
stored in a container closure system representative of that intended for marketing for up to 36 months 
under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 12 months under accelerated conditions (40 
ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: pH, appearance, clarity and colour of solution, loss on drying, 
assay and related substances. The microbiological quality (total aerobic count, yeast and mould (fungi)) 
will be tested at 48 months. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were found 
stability  indicating.  All  tested  parameters  were  within  the  specifications  and  no  trends  or  significant 
changes were observed. 
Photostability testing following ICH guideline Q1B was performed on three batches. 
The  stability  results  indicate  that  the  active  substance  manufactured  by  the  proposed  supplier  is 
sufficiently  stable.  The  stability  results  justify  the  proposed  retest  period  of  24  months  and  storage 
conditions in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
2.2.3.1.  Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as tablets containing 10 mg of amifampridine.  
Amifampridine  SERB  is  a  generic  of  the  reference  medicinal  product  Firdapse,  the  Applicant’s  own 
product. Amifampridine SERB is pharmaceutically identical to the reference product. It is manufactured 
using the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active ingredient and excipients and has the 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
same pharmaceutical form. The generic medicinal product is manufactured by the same manufacturing 
sites and to the same quality standards as the reference medicinal product. 
The formulation development is described in sufficient detail. The chosen formulation has been qualified 
by the use of the reference product.  
All  excipients  are  well  known  pharmaceutical  ingredients  and  their  quality  is  compliant  with  Ph.  Eur. 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients 
is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
A  bioequivalence  study  for  Amifampridine  SERB  tablets  was  not  conducted.  The  justification  that  the 
product is identical to the reference product in every aspect apart from the trade name (composition, 
pharmaceutical formulation, strength, manufacturing process, testing) was accepted. Dissolution results 
and  dissolution  profiles  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Guideline  on  investigation  of 
bioequivalence have been provided. The development of the dissolution method was based on empirical 
knowledge. A discussion on the discriminatory power of the dissolution method has been provided. As 
the active substance is BCS class III with very high solubility over the physiological pH range and with 
rapid dissolution, the method is considered to be adequate without further justification.  
There is only one known crystal form of amifampridine phosphate and therefore further discussion on 
polymorph control was not required. As amifampridine phosphate is freely soluble in water, a possible 
influence  of  the  active  substance  particle  size  on  bioavailability  and  dissolution  performance  can  be 
excluded. 
A discussion on the optimisation of manufacturing process and the critical process parameters has been 
presented and was found acceptable.  
The primary packaging is perforated unit dose  blisters (thermoformed aluminium-PVC/PVDC laminate 
sheets). The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure 
system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
2.2.3.2.  Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  six  main  steps:  weighing,  sieving,  mixing,  lubrication, 
compression  and  packaging.  A  dry  blending  process  and  direct  compression  is  used.  The  process  is 
considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
Satisfactory information on storage and packaging material of the bulk tablets has been provided. 
The critical steps of the manufacturing process have been appropriately identified (mixing, compression 
and packaging) and the critical steps are adequately controlled. 
The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  on  three  consecutive  production  scale  batches.  It  has 
been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the  finished  product  of 
intended quality in a reproducible manner. 
2.2.3.3.  Product specifications 
The finished product release and shelf-life specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage 
form. They include identity (2 tests acc. Ph. Eur.), appearance (visual), subdivision of tablets (Ph. Eur.), 
disintegration 
(Ph.  Eur.),  dissolution 
(Ph.  Eur.),  content  uniformity 
(Ph.  Eur.),  assay 
(spectrophotometric), microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
 
In line with the control strategy of the reference product, related substances are controlled in the active 
substance specification and formation of related substance through degradation is controlled in the shelf-
life specification. 
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed following a risk-
based approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. In the risk assessment all 
potential  sources  have  been  considered  (active  substance,  excipients,  manufacturing  equipment, 
container closure system). Based on the risk assessment it can be concluded that it is not necessary to 
include any elemental impurity controls. 
A  risk  evaluation  concerning  the  presence  of  nitrosamine  impurities  in  the  finished  product  has  been 
performed considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with the “Questions and answers for 
marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion for the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020) and 
the  “European  Medicines  Regulatory  Network  approach  for  the  implementation  of  the  CHMP  Opinion 
pursuant to Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) Nº 726/2004 for nitrosamine impurities in human medicines 
(EMA/425645/2020). Based on the information provided the risk of presence of nitrosamine impurities 
in the finished product is negligible and therefore, no specific control measures are deemed necessary. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch  analysis  results  are  provided  for  three  commercial  batches  confirming  the  consistency  of  the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification. 
2.2.3.4.  Stability of the product 
Stability data from commercial batches of finished product stored for up to 36 months under long term 
conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH), for up to 12 months under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 75 % RH) and 
for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were 
provided.  The  batches  of  medicinal  product  are  identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were 
packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for appearance, subdivision of tablets, resistance to crushing/hardness (Ph. Eur.), 
mean mass (Ph. Eur.), assay, related substances (HPLC) and microbiological quality.  
During the stability studies a decrease of hardness was observed at all storage conditions. However, all 
results were within the specification limits. No other trends were observed. 
In addition, three batches of finished product were exposed to light in accordance with the ICH Guideline 
on Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. The tablets are photosensitive, however 
the primary package protects the tablets from light exposure.  
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 3 years with the special precaution for storage 
“Store in the original package in order to protect from light.” as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3 and 6.4) 
are acceptable. 
2.2.3.5.  Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance  in  clinical use.  Amifampridine SERB is a 
generic of the reference medicinal product Firdapse, the Applicant’s own product. Amifampridine SERB 
is  pharmaceutically  identical  to  the  reference  product  having  the  same  qualitative  and  quantitative 
composition  in  active  ingredient  and  excipients  and  has  the  same  pharmaceutical  form.  The  generic 
medicinal product is manufactured by the same manufacturing sites using the same process and to the 
same quality standards as the reference medicinal product. On this basis it was considered acceptable 
that  a  bioequivalence  study  for  Amifampridine  SERB  tablets  was  not  conducted  since  the  product  is 
identical to the reference product in every aspect apart from the trade name. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No  environmental  risk  assessment  studies were submitted.  This was justified by  the  Applicant  as the 
introduction of Amifampridine  SERB manufactured by  SERB SA is considered unlikely to result in any 
significant  increase  in  the  combined  sales  volumes  for  all  amifampridine  containing  products  and  the 
exposure  of  the  environment  to  the  active  substance.  Thus,  the  environmental  risk  assessment  is 
expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The product Amifampridine SERB 10 mg tablets is a generic product and a duplicate of the reference 
medicinal product Firdapse 10 mg tablets, SERB S.A.  
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant has not provided additional studies and further studies are not required. This is acceptable 
since amifampridine is well-known active substance clinically used in humans for more than 10 years. 
The presented pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and toxicology data are in line with the requirements 
for  generic  products.  The  review  of  the  presented  literature  data  did  not  provide  any  additional 
information relative to the nonclinical safety profile of amifampridine. It can be concluded that the safety 
of amifampridine remains unchanged.  
The  non-clinical  aspects  of  the  SmPC  are  in  line  with  the  SmPC  of  the  reference  medicinal  product 
(Firdapse SmPC, 2020). As a precaution, the following statement has been added to section 6.6 of the 
SmPC: 
Any  unused  product  or  waste  material  should  be  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  local 
requirements. The wording in SmPC is considered acceptable. 
Based on the presented environmental risk assessment data of Firdapse and the extreme rarity of the 
disease and low prevalence of LEMS in Europe (i.e., 1:100,000 inhabitants), it can be concluded that an 
increase in environmental exposure of amifampridine is not expected after the introduction of a generic, 
but  rather  the  product  already  available  on  the  market  will  be  replaced  and  in  those  member  states 
where the introduction of a generic may increase market access, shall have a negligible impact on the 
environment as consumption of amifampridine remains similar since the first introduction to the market. 
No  additional  studies  need  to  be  performed.  Thus,  the  justification  provided by  the  Applicant  for  the 
omission of the environmental risk assessment is considered acceptable and it is in accordance with the 
Guideline  on 
the  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products 
for  Human  Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00).  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Amifampridine SERB 10 mg tablets from a non-clinical point of 
view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
The  proposed  generic  product  Amifampridine  SERB  is  a  duplicate  of  the  reference  medicinal  product 
Firdapse,  is manufactured using the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance 
and excipients, the same pharmaceutical form, and both are manufactured at the same manufacturing 
sites. Therefore, new clinical studies are neither required nor submitted. This product is identical in all 
aspects apart from the name to the reference product Firdapse 10 mg tablets  with the active substance 
amifampridine phosphate, which is the Applicant’s own product approved in the European Union EU since 
23 December 2009 (Marketing authorisation number EU/1/09/601/001) under the centralised procedure 
for the  symptomatic treatment of LEMS in adults.  
Since  the  initial  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances  was  granted  for  Firdapse 
(amifampridine  phosphate  tablets)  on  23  December  2009,  post-approval  clinical  commitments  as 
Specific Obligations (SOBs) relating to the safety and efficacy of Firdapse were conducted during annual 
re-assessments, some of which led to SmPC updates to reflect the available clinical information. On 18 
September 2020, the CHMP adopted the 10th annual re-assessment report (EMEA/H/C/001032/S/0066) 
on efficacy and safety of Firdapse in LEMS with a new SOB and approved by the EC on 18 November 
2020. On 23 March 2021, the MAH applied for 11th annual re-assessment of the marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances on efficacy and safety of Firdapse in LEMS (EMEA/H/C/001032/S/0071) 
and CHMP adopted a positive opinion recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation  on 22 
July 2021. The review of the postmarketing data along with the scientific published literature concerning 
efficacy and safety of the product in patients with LEMS confirmed its positive benefit-risk balance in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
approved indication(s). 
The clinical overview is adequate and covers the pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of the product.  
As this is a generic abridged application and a duplicate of the reference product marketing authorisation, 
no bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Firdapse 10 mg tablets has been carried 
out. The clinical data in support of the Amifampridine SERB 10 mg tablets application are identical to the 
up-to-date clinical data of the Firdapse 10 mg tablets, which has been assessed and approved (including 
all  post-marketing  procedures  stated  above).  The  present  application  is  based  on  published  data 
available since the initial marketing authorisation of Firdapse 10 mg tablets that support the SmPC.  
Relevant 
for 
the  assessment 
is 
the  Guideline  on 
the 
Investigation  of  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1). 
LEMS is an ultra-rare disease in which patients have muscle weakness because of a failure of the nerves 
to transmit electrical impulses to the muscles with a worldwide prevalence estimated between 1/250 000 
and  1/333  300  (Orphanet  Database).  Firdapse  was  designated  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  18 
December  2002  and  was  withdrawn  from  the  Community  Register  of  designated  orphan  medicinal 
products in December 2019 at the end of the 10-year period of market exclusivity. 
Amifampridine  blocks  voltage-dependent  potassium  channels,  thereby  prolonging  pre-synaptic  cell 
membrane  depolarisation.  Prolonging  the  action  potential  enhances  the  transport  of  calcium  into  the 
nerve  ending.  The  resulting  increase  in  intra-cellular  calcium  concentrations  facilitates  exocytosis  of 
acetylcholine-containing  vesicles,  which  in  turn  enhances  neuromuscular  transmission.  It  improves 
muscle strength and resting compound muscle action potential amplitudes with an overall weighted mean 
difference of 1.69 mV (95% CI 0.60 to 2.77).  
The pharmacodynamic profile of amifampridine has been studied for a range of doses. A prospective, 
placebo-controlled,  randomised  study  in  26  patients  with  LEMS  reported  clinical  efficacy  for 
amifampridine at the standard recommended maximum dose of 60 mg/day (Sanders et al 2000). Two 
further studies in a total of 57 patients with LEMS have reported data from higher doses of amifampridine. 
McEvoy et al 1989 reported data from a short-term study in 12 patients with LEMS, which demonstrated 
that administration of amifampridine at doses up to 100 mg/day for a period of 3 days was effective in 
treating the autonomic and motor symptoms of LEMS. Sanders et al 1998 presented data on efficacy 
and safety of amifampridine treatment at doses up to 100 mg/day in 45 patients with LEMS who were 
treated  for  an  average  of  31  months.  Therefore,  in  exceptional  circumstances  higher  doses  up  to  a 
maximum  of  80  mg/day  may  be  of  benefit  when  given  with  the  appropriate  safety  monitoring.  It  is 
recommended that dose titration from 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day is performed in 5 mg increments every 
7  days.  Upward  dose  titration  should  be  discontinued  if  any  adverse  reaction  or  ECG  abnormality  is 
observed.  
The effect of a single dose of  30 mg or 60 mg of amifampridine phosphate was used to evaluate the 
pharmacokinetic-QTc relationship of amifampridine concentration on cardiac repolarization exposure in 
healthy volunteers. This evaluation was conducted  in  a Phase  1, double-blind,  randomized, crossover 
study to define the ECG effects of amifampridine phosphate at these doses compared to placebo and 
moxifloxacin (a positive control) in healthy men and women who are slow acetylators (n=52). There was 
no effect of amifampridine phosphate on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction or cardiac depolarization 
as  measured  by  the  heart  rate,  PR  and  QRS  interval  durations.  No  subjects  developed  new  clinically 
relevant ECG morphological changes following administration of amifampridine phosphate. No effect was 
observed of amifampridine phosphate on cardiac repolarization as assessed using the QTc interval. 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
 
2.4.1.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
This application is an identical (duplicate)  version of  the  reference  medicinal  product  Firdapse  10  mg 
tablets under the generic legal basis.  The Applicant is also the marketing authorisation holder for the 
reference product Firdapse 10 mg tablets.  
According to the  justification  submitted by the  Applicant,  Amifampridine SERB 10  mg tablets  has the 
same  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  in  active  substance  and  excipients,  the  same 
pharmaceutical form and are manufactured by the same process and on the same manufacturing sites 
as the reference medicinal product Firdapse 10 mg tablets. Therefore, the proposed product is considered 
bioequivalent to the reference product according to the Guideline of Investigation of Bioequivalence as 
they are pharmaceutically equivalent, and their bioavailability is univocally the same. This justifies that 
the product is exempt from bioequivalence studies and no further data are required for clinical studies. 
The Applicant’s justification for non-submission of bioequivalence study is thus considered acceptable.  
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  active  substance  amifampridine  is  well  documented  for  the  reference 
medicinal product Firdapse 10 mg tablets. The Applicant has provided bibliographical  data to address 
this section. The available efficacy and safety data are appropriately reflected in the SmPC. 
A positive benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference medicinal product Firdapse 10 mg tablets can 
be concluded.  
2.4.2.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Amifampridine SERB 10 mg tablets from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk Management Plan 
2.5.1.  Safety concerns  
Table 1: Table SVIII.1: Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important 
identified 
Seizures 
risks 
Important 
potential 
risks 
Food-drug interaction 
Movement disorders 
Cardiac toxicity including QTc prolongation. 
Peripheral vascular disorders/Raynaud's phenomenon 
Respiratory disorders including bronchospasm. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Serious gastrointestinal conditions 
Missing information 
Risk of nerve sheath tumour development (Schwannoma in rats) 
Limited information on use in patients with renal impairment 
Lack of information on use in patients with hepatic disease 
Lack of information on use during pregnancy and lactation 
Lack of information on potential drug-drug interactions (DDI) (including QTc prolonging 
drugs,  seizure  threshold  reducing  drugs,  atropinic  and  cholinergic  drugs,  and 
depolarizing and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants) 
Lack of photosafety data 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.  Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  are  considered  adequate  to  monitor  the  safety  of  the  medicinal 
product. 
Some  additional  pharmacovigilance  activities  are  ongoing/completed  with  the  originator  products. 
However, those will not be requested or obligations for this generic application.   
2.5.3.  Risk minimisation measures 
In line with the reference product, the proposed risk minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise 
the risks of the product in the proposed indication 
The safety information in the PI is aligned to the reference medicinal product.  
Routine risk minimisation activities are sufficient to manage the safety concerns of the medicinal product. 
No additional are deemed necessary. 
2.5.4.  Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.1 is acceptable 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.6.1.  Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the Applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.6.2.  Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet 
has been submitted by the Applicant and has been found acceptable for the following reasons: 
• 
The proposed MAH of Amifampridine SERB is the same as the MAH of reference product Firdapse 
(EMEA/H/C/001032), the Package leaflet will be identical to that of the reference product with 
regards to the content (apart from the product name) and layout. Therefore, the User Testing 
performed for Firdapse that has been reviewed in the original MAA is relevant for the current 
initial MAA 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application is an identical (duplicate)  version of  the  reference  medicinal  product  Firdapse  10  mg 
tablets  under  the  generic  legal  basis.  The  reference  product  Firdapse  10  mg  tablets  is  indicated  for 
symptomatic treatment of LEMS in adults.  
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
non-clinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient.  
From  a  clinical  perspective,  this  application  does  not  contain  new  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and 
pharmacodynamics  as  well  as  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  active  substance;  the  Applicant’s  clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature is considered sufficient. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The originator product was authorised under exceptional circumstances, with the specific obligation of 
submitting  yearly  updates  on  any  new  information  concerning  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  product  in 
patients  with  LEMS.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  this  specific  obligation  should  not  be  imposed  on  this 
application. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Amifampridine SERB is favourable in the following indication: 
Symptomatic treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) in adults  
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted  medical  prescription  (see  Annex  I:  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/216122/2022  
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
 
