SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Ammonpas.  This 
scientific discussion has been updated until 1 November 2001. For information on changes after 
this date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
in 
the  chronic  management  of  urea  cycle  disorders, 
Ammonaps,  sodium  phenylbutyrate  (PB),  is  a  new  active  substance.  It  is  indicated  as  adjunctive 
involving  deficiencies  of 
therapy 
carbamylphosphate  synthetase,  ornithine  transcarbamylase,  or  argininosuccinate  synthetase.  It  is 
indicated  in  all  patients  with  neonatal-onset  presentation  (complete  enzyme  deficiencies,  presenting 
within the first 28 days of life). It is also indicated in patients with late-onset disease (partial enzyme 
deficiencies,  presenting  after  the  first  month  of  life)  who  have  a  history  of  hyperammonaemic 
encephalopathy. 
The  dossier  submitted  in  support  of  the  application  comprises  data  generated  by  the  applicant:  all 
chemical/pharmaceutical  data,  the  two  mutagenicity  studies  for  Part  III,  and  for  Part  IV,  the 
bioequivalence  study  and  a  review  of  the  US  IND/NDA  programme.  Additional  information  was 
available from published literature. 
Urea  cycle  disorders  (UCD)  are  inherited  deficiencies  of  one  of  the  enzymes  involved  in  the  urea 
cycle,  by  which  ammonium  is  converted  to  urea.  Ammonium  is  highly  toxic  to  nerve  cells  and 
hyperammonaemia  may  result  in  metabolic  derangement,  leading  to  anorexia,  lethargy,  confusion, 
coma, brain damage, and death. 
The  most  severe  forms  of  UCDs  occur  early  in  life  (complete  enzyme  deficiencies).  The  classic 
neonatal presentation of all the UCD (with the exception of arginase deficiency) is quite uniform and 
includes,  after  a  short  symptom-free  interval  of  one  to  five  days,  poor  feeding,  vomiting,  lethargy, 
muscular  hypotonia,  hyperventilation,  irritability  and  convulsions.  Without  rapid  intervention,  coma 
prevails as the condition worsens and leads eventually to deaths. Later onset forms of UCD occur in 
infancy, at puberty, and in adults subject to physiological stress. In the late onset forms, more subtle 
symptoms  have  been  described  including  vomiting,  migraine-like  headache,  changes  in  the  level  of 
consciousness  and  neurological  signs,  such  as 
irritability,  agitation, 
combativeness, disorientation, ataxia and visual impairment. Seizures are a late complication. Finally, 
delayed  physical  growth  and  delay  in  mental  development  are  common.  In  female  patients  with 
ornithine  transcarbamylase  deficiency,  who  are  heterozygous,  the  condition  is  less  severe  and  they 
may remain undiagnosed well into adult life. 
lethargy,  somnolence, 
In  the  absence  of  systematic  screening,  the  incidence  of  UCD  is  difficult  to  assess  and  various 
estimates are found in the literature. On this basis, it is estimated that the overall incidence of all urea 
cycle disorders has been defined as 1 per 8,200 births.  
The treatment strategies used are to reduce dietary protein intake, and to provide an alternative vehicle 
to  urea  for  the  excretion  of  nitrogen  waste.  Currently  none  of  the  possible  treatments  for 
hyperammonaemia are approved in Europe. Enzyme replacement therapy through liver transplantation 
provides an additional treatment option. In most patients this procedure has markedly improved their 
metabolic abnormalities and permitted a normal protein intake, however, transplantation for UCD is a 
relatively recent treatment option and its long-term benefits are as yet unknown.  
Sodium  phenylbutyrate  is  a  prodrug  and  is  rapidly  metabolised  to  phenylacetate.  It  promotes  the 
synthesis  of  phenylacetylglutamine,  which  then  serves  as  a  substitute  vehicle  for  waste  nitrogen 
excretion.  The recommended dose is: 
• 
• 
450 - 600 mg/kg/day in neonates, infants and children weighing less than 20 kg 
9.9 - 13.0 g/m2/day in children weighing more than 20 kg, adolescents and adults. 
The safety and efficacy of doses in excess of 20 g/day has not been established. 
1/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Ammonaps is presented as tablets and granules containing sodium phenylbutyrate. Two standard and 
simple  pharmaceutical  formulations  of  sodium  phenylbutyrate  were  produced  with  commonly  used 
excipients. The tablets (500 mg) contain approximately 74% active substance and the granules provide 
940 mg sodium phenylbutyrate/g granules. 
In  order  to  dose  accurately  and  especially  for  smaller  amounts  required  for  infants,  three  measuring 
spoons  have  been  introduced  for  the  granules,  giving  doses  of  0.95  g,  2.9  g  and  8.6  g.  The  overall 
uniformity of doses obtained from the three measuring spoons is acceptable and the individual weights 
are within the Ph. Eur. limit of 10% for single-dose powders.  
The  proposed  container  for  both  granules  and  tablets  is  a  high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottle 
with  a  desiccant  unit,  closed  with  a  polypropylene  caps  (child  resistant).  The  materials  have  been 
adequately tested for conformance to USP requirements. 
Active substance 
Pharmaceutical data on the active substance have been presented in an EDMF (European Drug Master 
File). Sodium phenylbutyrate is off-white to slightly yellow powder, which is soluble in water. A four-
step  synthetic  process  with  acceptable  in-process  controls  manufactures  it.    Process  validation  data 
show  the  synthesis  to  be  under  control.    Satisfactory  specifications  were  provided  for  the  starting 
material,  solvents,  reagents  and  intermediates.  The  manufacturer  of  the  active  substance  has 
adequately validated the analytical methods used.  The manufacturer of the finished product to re-test 
the  active  substance  uses  the  same  methods;  full  re-validation  is  to be  carried  out  on  these  methods 
and results provided. 
Sodium  phenylbutyrate  has  a  simple  structure  and  presents  no  polymorphic  forms.  The  pathway  of 
synthesis has confirmed the evidence of its chemical structure, by elemental analysis, 1H-NMR and IR 
spectroscopy.  
The  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  bulk  density,  water  content,  identifcation  by  IR  and 
HPLC,  heavy  metals,  pH,  assay  and  impurities.    Three  main  related  substances  are  specified:  α-
tetralone, 3-benzoylpropionic acids and 4-cyclohexylbutyric acids. Further impurities (e.g. isomer 2-
phenylbutyric acid) can be detected by a GC or HPLC assay method but have not been found in the 
active  substance.  While  the  limits  for  impurities  have  been  toxicologically  accepted,  it  is  suggested 
that in view of the high doses to be given (> 2 g/day), limits should be reviewed and tightened when 
further  batch  data  are  available.  Residual  solvents  are  also  specified  at  a suitable  limit in agreement 
with CPMP/ICH guidance. 
Analytical  results  from  three  batches  show  compliance  with  the  specification  and  indicate  suitable 
uniformity.  
The active substance (3 batches) was tested for up to 12 months under real-time (25°C/60%RH) and 
accelerated condition (40°C/75%RH). It was also tested in solvent and solution, under the influence of 
pH  and  oxidative  conditions.  The  shelf-life  specification  includes  appearance,  assay,  impurities,  pH 
and  water.  Increases  in  water  content  were  observed  but  are  not  linked  to  the  increases  in  3-
benzoylpropionic acid also seen in stability batches and are not detrimental to the stability of sodium 
phenylbutyrate. A 12-month retest period can be approved. 
Other ingredients 
Satisfactory information has been provided on the excipients. All excipients will be released against 
relevant Ph.Eur. Monographs. For those excipients derived from tallow (i.e. magnesium and calcium 
stearate),  a  TSE  declaration  was  provided  in  accordance  with  the  EU  requirements  (Commission 
Decision 97/534/EC). 
2/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
No detailed pre-formulation studies were performed. The tablets and granules are manufactured using 
simple  formulations  based  on  commonly  used  excipients,  standard  pharmaceutical  equipment  and 
processes. The function of the excipients is stated.  
Forced  degradation  studies  have  been  conducted  under  extreme  temperature  and  acidic  conditions. 
They  indicate  a  rise  in  3-benzoylpropionic  acid  level,  as  well  as  some  degradants  not  detectable  by 
HPLC, but these extreme conditions do not reflect the product as marketed. Results of up to 0.006% 
w/w were found from batches tested for 3-benzoylpropionic acids.  
Batches  manufactured  at  different  sites  have  been  used  in  clinical  trials  and  bioequivalence  studies. 
Results  of  a  three-way  crossover  study  in  healthy  volunteers  receiving  5  grams  doses  of  tablets  or 
granules indicate that the bioavailability of the granule formulation is less than that of the tablets, but 
remains within the usual criterion of ± 20%. This will be further discussed in Part IV. 
The  manufacturing  processes  for  both  granules  and  tablets  consist  of  multi-stage  blending, 
compaction, granulation, and compression as the final step for tablets. The processes are satisfactorily 
described. 
Mixing  times,  equipment  conditions  and  in-process  controls  are  described  for  both  formulations 
accordingly (weight, thickness, hardness, friability for the tablets, fill volume for the granules and bulk 
and tapped density testing for both tablet and the granules) and their parameters are specified within 
acceptable  limits.  Results  from  clinical  (7  and  5  batches  for  granules  and  tablets,  respectively)  and 
production (2 batches for granules and tablets) batches indicate acceptable batch-to-batch consistency. 
A revised finished product specification (for both the site of manufacture and the site of batch release) 
has  been  provided  in  compliance  with  EU  requirements.  Control  tests  on  the  finished  product  use 
adequately  validated  methods  and  include  requirements  for  appearance,  identification  of  active 
substance, assay and impurities determination, bulk density testing for granules, and average weight, 
uniformity  of  weight,  disintegration  and  dissolution  for  the  tablets.  The  microbiological  quality  is 
controlled in accordance with Ph. Eur., but is proposed as a non-routine method.  
The  dissolution  medium,  previously  simulated  intestinal  fluid,  has  been  changed  to  water.  The 
dissolution specification has been tightened to 80% in 45 minutes but this should be reviewed again in 
the  light  of  further  data.  Dissolution  results  using  both  media  show  slightly  greater  dissolution  in 
water, but dissolution is essentially complete in both media at the same time.  The disintegration limit 
is set slightly higher than usual (at 20 min); this is acceptable as the results do not impact adversely on 
dissolution.  
A commitment is given by the applicant to submit certificates of analysis for the first three production 
batches, tested to the EU specifications. Limits for impurities will be reviewed when further batch data 
are available.  
On the basis of the inspection carried out at Pharmaceutics International Inc on 13-15 May 1998, the 
inspection  report  confirmed  that  the  operations  are  in  general  compliance  with  the  principles  and 
guidelines of GMP (see the Annex II). 
Stability studies have been carried out at 25ºC/60%RH up to 24 and 36 months on batches of granules 
and tablets made by Pharmaceutics International, and at 40ºC/75%RH for 6 months. Shelf-life content 
limits  of  93-107%  have  been  accepted  for  the  finished  products  on  the  basis  of  the  variability  in 
results,  though  no  degradation  appears  to  occur.  The  limits  should  be  reviewed  again  when  further 
stability data are available. The analytical methods used are those for routine finished product testing 
or  similar,  validated  methods.  No  change  of  appearance  was  observed.  Content  and  impurity  levels 
remain  within  the  proposed  limits  as  specified.  Satisfactory  stability  data  for  the  full  shelf-life  have 
been provided and based on the resulting data, a 2-year shelf life is acceptable for both granules and 
tablets when stored below 30ºC. 
• 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Ammonaps  granules  and  tablets  are  conventionally  formulated  and  manufactured  using  standard 
pharmaceutical technology. A suitable specification has been submitted for the active substance. The 
limits for impurities have been toxicologically accepted (see Part III). A single specification for each 
3/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
finished  product  formulation  is  also  proposed,  with  revised  specification  for  dissolution  parameters 
and impurity limits. In line with the requirements for the active substance, the impurity limits should 
be reviewed when further data are available.   
Overall,  the  chemical-pharmaceutical  dossier  is  generally  acceptable.  The  company  was  however 
requested to provided, within the agreed timeframe, additional data, which have not been satisfactorily 
resolved; these are defined in the follow-up measures as listed in the company's undertaking letter (see 
section II.3 of this report).  
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  relating  to  the  proposed  indications  are  as  outlined  in  section  4  (Clinical 
pharmacology/Pharmacodynamics). 
General pharmacodynamics - A number of studies seem to indicate the ability of PB to inhibit tumour 
growth  in  vitro,  and  that  phenylacetate  and  probably  phenylbutyrate  have  neuroinhibitory  and 
neurotoxic potential under the in vitro and ex-vivo conditions studied. 
Two rat models of human phenylketonuria were developed, one involved exposure to PA injected s.c. 
twice  daily  from  day  2-28  of  life.  In  the  other,  pregnant  rats  were  exposed  to  PA  during  gestation. 
Reduced  brain  weight,  abnormalities  in  learning,  and  in  neurotransmitter  uptake  are  consistently 
noted.  It  was  argued  that  high  concentrations  are  unlikely  during  therapeutic  use  of  PB  because  of 
poor  transfer  across  the  adult  blood-brain  barrier. The  implications  of  these  findings  with  respect  to 
human foetal brain are unknown (see also below - Reproductive and development toxicity studies) 
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies in the juvenile rat, where subcutaneous administration  was used, and in the adult cat, where 
intravenous  administration  was  used,  have  been  performed.  Even  though  pharmacokinetic  data  after 
oral administration are not available, it can be expected that being an organic acid, PB will be rapidly 
and extensively absorbed after oral administration. It is converted to its active metabolite, PA by beta-
oxidation.  In  single  subcutaneous  dose  studies  from  birth  to  maturity  in  rats,  PA  penetrated  tissues 
rapidly  and  extensively,  with  tissue  levels  usually  equivalent  to  those  in  blood.  Like  other  organic 
acids, PA is actively excreted in urine by tubular secretion as the amino acid conjugate. 
Toxicology  
Single  dose  toxicity  -  No  single  dose  toxicity  studies  have  been  carried  out.  However,  sufficient 
information is available from the animal pharmacology above. The doses of PA given in these studies 
were  low.  Taken  together,  the  results  of  the  studies  suggest  that  single  doses  of  PA  by  both  the 
intravenous and subcutaneous routes are well tolerated. 
Repeated-dose toxicity - There are no repeated dose studies available. However, information available 
from  the  animal  pharmacology  above  makes  a  convincing  case  that  parenteral  administration  of 
phenylacetate causes impairment of brain development in the immature rodent. Because phenylacetate 
can cross into human CNS, the observations in rodents should be considered a potential hazard for the 
therapeutic use of PB. 
Carcinogenicity  -  Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  performed.  These  deficiencies  are  not 
considered  to  be  an  impediment  to  the  granting  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation  in  view  of  ICH-S1A: 
guideline on the need for carcinogenicity studies of pharmaceuticals. 
Genotoxicity  and  mutagenicity  -  A  bacterial  reverse  mutation  assay  (Ames  test,  plate  incorporation 
method) was conducted with PB at concentrations in the range of 52-5000 µg/plate, using five strains 
of Salmonella Typhimurium, in the presence and  absence  of rat  liver microsomal enzymes (S9). No 
cytotoxicity  or  revertant  colonies  were  observed  at  the  top  dose.  A  bone  marrow  micronucleus  test 
was  also  conducted  using  rats  of  both  sexes  (5  animals/sex/group;  PB  878-1568-2800  mg/kg  single 
oral gavage). Deaths occurred in top dose (7/10, at 2800 mg/kg) and mid-dose (2/10, at 1568 mg/kg) 
groups.  The  frequency  of  micronucleated  cells  was  not  significantly  different  from  the  negative 
control at any dose level at either the 24 hour or the 48 hour harvest.  
4/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attention should  be  drawn  to the fact that the Ames test did not comply with the ICH-requirements 
(i.e.  two  recommended  strains  of  E.  coli  were  not  included  to  pick-up  A-T  and  G-C  base  pair 
mutations) and there are no pharmacokinetic data in either rat or man to validate the in vivo study in 
terms of reaching adequate plasma levels. Despite these deficiencies, the results of both studies did not 
give raise to any evidence of mutagenic potential.  
Reproductive and development toxicity studies - Studies on administration to pregnant rodents indicate 
that  CNS  damage  may  occur  in  animals  exposed  in  utero.  However,  as  drug  administration  did  not 
commence  until  day  9  of  gestation,  after  the  main  period  of  organogenesis,  these  studies  are  not 
optimal  for  the  assessment  of  teratogenic  potential.  In  female  pregnant  rats,  spontaneous  abortions 
occurred,  birth  weight  of  the  offspring  was  significantly  lower  than  in  controls,  weight  gain  of  the 
pups over the lactation period was reduced, and brain weight at sacrifice was low. It also seems likely 
that spermatogenesis and therefore fertility would be affected in the male rat. 
Impurities - In the active substance, α-tetralone, 3-benzoylpropionic acid and 4-cyclohexylbutyric acid 
are  the  potential  impurities  identified.  According  to  the  ICH  requirements,  the  threshold  for 
toxicological qualification of impurities is 0.05% (w/w) and of degradation products is 0.1%, when the 
total daily intake exceeds 2 g, as in the case of Ammonaps. The limits for cyclohexylbutyric acid and 
for other impurities in the active substance and in the release specification for the tablets and granules 
are  higher  than  the  threshold  (at  0.1%),  but  the  limits  have  been  found  to  be  toxicologically 
acceptable. No adverse events would be expected as a result of these impurities, but the applicant is 
required to submit further data from manufacturing batches and these data will be reviewed (see also 
Part II). 
• 
Summary and conclusion on preclinical pharmacology and toxicology: 
There are no formal toxicity studies; no overt toxicity was noted in a review of the data available. A 
bacterial reverse mutation and a rat bone marrow micronucleus test have been carried out with sodium 
phenylbutyrate  and  did  not  give  rise  to  any  evidence  of  mutagenic  potential.  The  available  data 
indicate  that  PB  is  fetotoxic,  affecting  mainly  the  brain;  effects  on  reproduction  and  organogenesis 
have not been conventionally investigated. This has been dealt with in the SPC, where pregnancy is 
contra-indicated and an explanation is given in the appropriate section of the document. 
The deficiencies of the pre-clinical section of the dossier should be viewed in the light of the CPMP 
recommendation  for  an  approval  under  exceptional  circumstances.  As  required  for  an  authorisation 
under  exceptional  circumstances,  appropriate  information  is  provided  in  the  product  information  to 
draw the attention of the medical practitioner to the fact that the currently available data concerning 
the medicinal product in question is inadequate in certain specified respects. The conditions for which 
this  medicinal  product  would  be  indicated  would  fall  within  the  scope  of  the  Proposed  European 
Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) on Orphan Medicinal Products.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Ammonaps,  sodium  phenylbutyrate  (PB),  is  a  new  active  substance  with  the  proposed  therapeutic 
indication  “adjunctive  therapy  in  the  chronic  management  of  urea  cycle  disorders,  involving 
deficiencies  of  carbamyl  phosphate  synthetase,  ornithine  transcarbamylase  or  argininosuccinate 
synthetase”. Urea Cycle Disorders (UCD) are inherited deficiencies of one of the enzymes involved in 
the urea cycle, by which ammonium is converted to urea. Excess dietary protein and the nitrogenous 
substances produced by endogenous protein turnover are normally metabolised to yield energy and the 
by-product ammonium, which is excreted in the urine as urea. Each pass through this cycle results in 
the  elimination  of  one  molecule  of  urea,  which  contains  two  atoms  of  waste  nitrogen.  Due  to 
deficiencies of the urea cycle, the conversion of ammonium ion to urea is impaired to varying degrees, 
and  consequently  its  excretion  is  reduced.  Ammonium  is  highly  toxic  to  nerve  cells  and 
hyperammonaemia can damage the central nervous system leading to cerebral oedema and death. 
The elimination of nitrogen from the human body by a moiety other than urea was first proposed in 
1914, when Lewis described the stoichiometric relationship between the decrease in urine nitrogen as 
urea  and  the  appearance  of  hippurate  nitrogen  in  a  normal  subject  given  sodium  benzoate. 
Subsequently,  Sherwin  in  1919  demonstrated  the  quantitative  elimination  of  nitrogen  in  humans  via 
5/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
phenylacetylglutamine following treatment with oral doses of phenylacetic acid (PA). The amino acid 
acylation  products  of  sodium  benzoate  and  sodium  phenylacetate  may  substitute  for  urea  nitrogen 
excretion in all UCD. 
The  investigational  use  of  PA  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  urea  cycle  disorders  was  started  in 
clinical  trials  performed  at  Johns  Hopkins  University,  USA,  in  1980.  Subsequently,  the  relevant 
permission was amended to include the investigational use of the combination of sodium benzoate and 
PA at several dosages. In 1983, a further amendment permitted the use of PB as a substitute for PA. 
Finally,  in  1987,  the  use  of  PB  only  was  introduced  as  a  monotherapy  replacing  the  combination 
therapy. 
The  Office  of  Orphan  Products  Development  supported  the  trial  conducted  with  PB  and  the  US 
Orphan status designation was granted on 22 November 1993. The results of this trial constitute the 
basis of the clinical part of the dossier. Although this trial does not comply with the requirements of 
Good  Clinical  Practice,  it  seems  that  the  study  population  represents  a  significant  proportion  of 
patients with these rare disorders treated in the USA.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics  –  PB  is  a  pro-drug,  which  is  rapidly  converted  to  PA  by  beta-oxidation  in 
mammalian liver and kidneys. In higher primates, PA is enzymatically conjugated with glutamine in 
the  liver  and  kidneys  to  form  phenylacetylglutamine  (PAG),  which  is  readily  excreted  in  the  urine. 
The  glutamine  required  to  excrete  the  PA  will  have  to  be  synthesised  and  the  reversible  reaction: 
glutamine  ↔glutamic  acid  +  NH4
+  will  proceed  to  the  left  and  therefore  ammonia  will  be  excreted 
This  cannot  be  demonstrated  in  animals  due  to  species  differences  in  the  metabolic  pathway  of 
nitrogen  elimination.  On  a  molar  basis,  PAG  is  comparable  to  urea  (each  containing  two  nitrogen 
atoms) and provides an alternative vehicle for waste nitrogen disposal. Thus therapeutic administration 
of PB has the potential to divert nitrogen away from the blocked or impaired urea cycle and to provide 
an alternative pathway of excretion. 
Experimental support for the hypothesis outlined above is provided by the work of Prof. Brusilow’s 
group  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  school  of  Medicine.  Brusilow  demonstrated  in  1991  in  a  child  with 
carbamyl  phosphate  synthetase  deficiency  that  administration  of  PA  or  PB  resulted  in  the  urinary 
excretion of PAG equivalent to 38-44% of the predicted normal nitrogen excretion. In other children 
with  UCD,  administration  of  PB  or  PA  resulted  in  a  decrease  of  25-50%  of  baseline  glutamine.  
Similar results were found in an adult male patient with ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, whose 
plasma ammonium and glutamine levels significantly declined with PB therapy.  
Pharmacokinetics  –  No  formal  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  with  PB.  Data  from 
bioequivalence studies, and pilot studies in patients with cancer and haemoglobinopathies are cited.  
Studies in cancer patients have been performed where intravenous infusion of PB or PA has been used 
for  anti-tumour  activity.  After  intravenous  bolus  infusion,  PB  and  PA  display  non-linear 
pharmacokinetics with a saturable elimination, which is consistent with an enzymatic process. During 
treatment with repeated doses of phenylacetate there is evidence of an induction of drug clearance as 
shown  by  a  significant  decrease  (27%)  in  the  AUCs  obtained  at  the  beginning  (days  1-3)  compared 
with  those  in  the  end  (days  12-14)  of  therapy,  which  the  authors  attribute  to  enzyme  induction. 
Concentrations over 900 µg/ml were associated with sedation, confusion, nausea and vomiting. 
Pharmacokinetics after oral administration of PB have been studied in healthy volunteers (single dose 
of 2.5 g, n=2; single dose of 5 g, n= 21), in one patient with ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency and 
in 8 patients with haemoglobinopathies. PB is rapidly absorbed: measurable plasma levels of PB are 
detected 15 min after oral administration. Peak concentrations of approximately 1 mmol/l are reached 
after 1 h. In one study, the elimination half-life was estimated to be 0.8 h. Measurable plasma levels of 
PA and PAG are detected 30-60 min after oral dosing of PB (the mean peak concentration is 45.3 and 
62.8 µg/ml, respectively). The time to peak concentration increases with the dose of PB and is around 
3.5 h for both metabolites after a dose of 5 g of PB. The elimination half-life was estimated to be 1.3 
and 2.4 hours, respectively for PA and PAG. Recovery of PB and PAG from serial collections of urine 
has been evaluated in some of the cited studies. It is demonstrated that in most subjects, the kidneys 
within  24h  excrete  approximately  80-100%  of  the  drug  as  the  conjugated  product,  PAG.  After  oral 
administration, unchanged drug is not detected in the urine of normal subjects or patients with UCD. It 
6/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has  not  been  determined  if  PA  is  secreted  in  human  milk,  therefore  Ammonaps  is  contraindicated 
during breast-feeding. 
For all formulations used in the bioequivalence studies, the total exposure was greater in female than 
in  male  subjects,  being  about  20-25%  and  40%  higher  for  PB  and  PA,  respectively.  This  gender 
difference has been mentioned in the SPC. This may be due to the lipophilicity of the drug and gender 
differences  in  volume  of  distribution.  For  PAG  the  difference  was  only  about  10%.  The  principal 
indices  of  plasma  pharmacokinetics  of  PB,  PA  and  PAG  in  healthy  male  and  female  subjects  are 
tabulated below (Table 1). 
Table 1 - Plasma pharmacokinetics (mean values) in healthy male (m) and female (f) subjects: 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
M 192.5 
F 242.6 
M 39.2 
F 55.1 
M 67.4 
F 66.9 
AUC (µg·h/ml) 
M 480.1 
F 622.1 
M 154.4 
F 245.8 
M 282.7 
F 297.7 
Phenylbutyrate 
(PB) 
Phenylacetate 
(PA) 
Phenylacetyl 
glutamine (PAG) 
t1/2 (h) 
M 0.78 
F 0.82 
M 1.2 
F 1.26 
M 2.12 
F 2.66 
tmax (h) 
M 1.18 
F 1.21 
M 3.62 
F 3.73 
M 3.25 
F 3.43 
Bioequivalence studies - In a single dose three-way crossover study, healthy male (n=10) and female 
(n=11)  volunteers  received a) PB 500 mg tablets, American Drug Development Inc., b) PB powder, 
Pharmaceutical  services  University  of  Iowa  or  c)  PB  500  mg  tablets,  Pharmaceutical  Services 
University  of  Iowa.  In  all  cases  the  dose  was  5  grams.  A  and  B  were  considered  the  test  and  C  the 
reference formulations. Results are  tabulated below (Table 2) and indicate that the bioavailability of 
the powder formulation is less than that of the tablets, but remains within the usual regulatory criterion 
of  ± 20 %. 
Table 2 - Relative bioavailability  (mean values) of test tablets (a) and powder (b) compared to 
reference tablets (c): 
Phenylbutyrate 
(PB) 
Phenylacetate 
(PA) 
Phenylacetyl 
glutamine (PAG) 
tmax (h) 
a)  1.4 
b)  1.0 
c)  1.2 
d)  3.7 
e)  3.6 
f)  3.7 
g)  3.4 
h)  3.2 
i)  3.4 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
a)  218 
b)  195 
c)  240 
d)  49 
e)  45 
f)  54 
g)  69 
h)  63 
i)  69 
AUC (µg·h/ml) 
a)  577 
b)  494 
c)  586 
d)  211 
e)  188 
f)  231 
g)  306 
h)  268 
i)  301 
t1/2 (h) 
a)  0.77 
b)  0.76 
c)  0.85 
d)  1.15 
e)  1.29 
f)  1.25 
g)  2.41 
h)  2.36 
i)  2.56 
All  formulations  in  the  bioequivalence  study  contained  approximately  the  same  amount  of  active 
substance and relatively minor differences in excipients. No safety problems have been observed from 
clinical  experience  with  the  proposed  commercial  formulation,  as  distinct  from  development 
formulations. 
Interaction studies - No studies of drug interactions are included in support of the application. There 
have been publications reporting that: renal excretion of the PB conjugation product may be affected 
by  concurrent  administration  of  probenecid;  hyperammonia  may  be  induced  by  haloperidol  and  by 
valproate; corticosteroid may cause increase in plasma ammmonia levels. More frequent monitoring of 
plasma ammonia levels is advised in the SPC when using these medications. 
There  is  no  formal  food  interaction  study  available.  The  suggestion  for  administration  with  food  is 
based on experience gained in clinical practice. In addition, the dose is to be titrated against metabolic 
states  and  an  important  principle  would  seem  to  be  that  the  administration  with  or  without  is  kept 
constant. 
Special patient groups - The pharmacokinetics of PB have been studied in male patients with hepatic 
cirrhosis  (oral  administration,  20  g/day  in  three  doses).  Plasma  levels  of  PB  followed  the  peak  and 
7/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trough  pattern  familiar  from  healthy subjects  and UCD patients. The  conversion of PA  to PAG was 
relatively  slower  in  these  patients  with  impaired  hepatic  function  as  evidenced  by  progressive 
accumulation  of  PA  in  the  plasma  of  3  out  of  the  6  patients  studied;  this  pattern  is  not  found  in 
subjects with normal liver function. In addition, PB and PA were detected in urine. This suggests that 
in patients with cirrhosis the capacity of the metabolic pathway of PA is reduced.  
The pharmacokinetics of PB have not been studied in patients with renal impairment. 
Appropriate information concerning these high risk groups is contained in the SPC. 
Dosage - No formal dose finding study has been performed. The proposed daily dosage was derived 
on  the  basis  that  one  mole  of  PB  will  be  metabolised  to  one  mole  of  PAG,  and  from  the  estimated 
nitrogen to be excreted on a restricted intake. Excretion of 0.09 g/kg/d of PAG nitrogen would require 
a  dose  of  0.6  g/kg/d  of  PB.  It  is  likely  that  the  efficiency  of  excretion  varies  between  patients  and 
individual titration is recommended on the basis of therapeutic monitoring. Based on this reasoning, 
the following regimen is proposed: 
• 
• 
450 - 600 mg/kg/day in neonates, infants and children weighing less than 20 kg 
9.9 - 13.0 g/m2/day in children weighing more than 20 kg, adolescents and adults. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  most  important  efficacy  data  are  derived  from  the  Phase  III  clinical  trial,  based  on  the  US-
IND/NDA program. In this study, patients with UCDs [deficiency of carbamyl phosphate synthetase 
(CPS), ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) or argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS)] were enrolled in an 
open,  non-comparative  multicentre  study.  The  first  patient  was  enrolled  in  1985  and  the  cut-off  for 
data  analysis  was  February  1996.  The  IND  program  consisted  of  two  cohorts  of  data,  as  outlined 
below. 
Study  population  -  The  first  treatment  program  (1985-1994)  consists  of  162  patients,  of  which  148 
were evaluable (87 with prior therapy and 61 without prior therapy). The following UCDs had been 
diagnosed: OTC 99 patients, ASS 31 patients and CPS 18 patients. The distribution of the evaluable 
patients and classification of the population according to time of diagnosis is presented in Table 3. Of 
this  population,  55%  of  patients  were  less  than  twelve  years  old  at  the  time  of  the  last  visit  to  the 
investigator and 15% had received PB therapy for five years or more. 
Table 3 - Treatment population by time of onset and enzyme deficiency (1985-1994):  
DIAGNOSIS/ONSET 
Neonatal rescue 
Prospectively treated 
Late onset 
OTC females 
Total = 148 
OTC 
19 
4 
21 
55 
99 
CPS 
12 
4 
2 
0 
18 
ASS 
27 
4 
0 
0 
31 
Total 
58 (39%) 
12 (8%) 
23 (16%) 
55 (37%) 
Notes:  rescue  =  neonates  rescued  from  hyperammonaemic  encephalopathy  (HE);  prospective  = 
neonates  known  to  be  at  risk  of  UCD  and  treated  immediately  after  birth;  late-onset  =  patients 
presenting with HE after 28 days of age; OTC females = mutation at the OTC locus of one of their X-
chromosomes. 
Further information supplied in support of this application relates to a cohort of 208 patients, of which 
183 were evaluable (cut-off date: February 1996). The patient population comprised 95 (52%) females 
and  88  (48%)  males.  The  following  UCDs  had been diagnosed: OTC  122 patients, ASS  39 patients 
and  CPS  22  patients.  The  distribution  of  the  evaluable  patients  and  classification  of  the  population 
according to time of diagnosis was as follows: 
-  
-  
-  
-  
rescue 
: 72 (39%) 
prospective: 14 (8%) 
late-onset: 29 (16%) 
OTC females: 68 (37%) 
8/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results: 
The  efficacy  criteria  evaluated  were:  survival,  incidence  of  hyperammonaemic  episodes,  cognitive 
development, growth, plasma ammonia and glutamine levels. The development of a coherent overview 
is  hindered  by  the  heterogeneity  of  the  UCDs  patients,  with  different  age  of  onset  and  the  possible 
effect of the presence or absence of prior treatment. 
Patient  survival  -  If  the  meaning  of  no  prior  therapy  is  taken  as  indicating  stabilisation  at  birth  and 
maintenance on PB, the results of the first treatment program indicate that 4 of 16 rescue patients died 
in  approximately  15  months.  Four  of  6  prospectively  diagnosed  patients  and  treated  at  birth  ceased 
treatment within the first two and a half years of life. Three of 13 late onset patients ceased treatment 
after  an  unknown  time.  Patients  classified  as  OTC  females  have  a  better  outlook  than  others;  there 
were no deaths in a total of 26 patients and only 3 withdrawals from therapy. 
At  the  time  of  the  last  reporting,  82  patients  had  been  treated  with  PB  only,  whereas  101  of  the 
patients  had  already  been  treated  according  to  previous  protocols.  Overall  survival  rate  was 
approximately  80%.  Eighteen  patients  (15  in  the  rescue  group)  died  during  an  hyperammonaemic 
episode, sometimes after the decision to discontinue the therapy had been taken by the parents.  
Hyperammonaemic  episodes  -  Data  on  HA  episodes  were  initially  presented  as  adverse  events. 
However,  because  they  clearly  relate  to  the  underlying  disease  and  because  therapy  with  PB  is 
designed to prevent their occurrence, a reduction in frequency might be taken as evidence of efficacy 
of PB; the HA data has therefore been reviewed in that light. 
Of the 148 evaluable patients, 34 (23%) did not experience any HA episodes requiring hospitalisation 
during  the  course  of  their  follow-up  (up  to  9  years)  and  114  experienced  at  least  one  episode.  An 
overview of the occurrence of HA episodes based on 118 patients is given in Table 4.  
Table 4 - The occurrence of hyperammonaemia - events/patients - (frequency per patient): 
No antecedent treatment 
Antecedent treatment 
Neonatal 
Rescue 
5/11 (0.45) 
6/31 (0.1) 
Neonatal 
prospective Rx 
3/2  (1.5) 
0/5  
Late  
onset 
4/10 (0.4) 
3/8 (0.38) 
OTC 
female 
7/23 (0.30) 
6/28 (0.2) 
Patients having received antecedent treatment seem to do better. It is likely that patients in the PB only 
group  (no  antecedent  treatment)  would  have  been  recruited  later  than  those  having  received  antecedent 
treatment. Considering the small number of patients, a conclusion could not be drawn. 
In the last up-to date report, this number had increased to 51 out of the 183 evaluable patients (28%). 
Among the group of patients (n=115) treated for more than one year, the annual incidence (expressed 
as  average  per  patient)  of  hyperammonaemic  episodes  was  1.1  in  the  rescue  group,  1.9  in  the 
prospective group, 0.6 in the late-onset group and 0.8 in the OTC-females group. Seventy-eight out of 
these 115 patients (68%) had one or less than one hyperammonaemic episode per year. 
Cognitive  development  -  Cognitive  performance  was  evaluated  using  IQ  measuring  scales  when 
possible. As different scales were used for different patients, results were converted into a functional 
scoring system: average (score 4), average/borderline (score 4/3), mentally retarded (score 2), severely 
retarded (score 1). The most severely affected patients (non-verbal and/or non-responsive) were also 
placed in the last category. Results indicate that even for the best group, i.e. OTC females, only 6/25 
patients had a normal mental capacity; the IQs of the OTC-females were distributed in all categories. 
The  patients  in  the  rescue  group  showed  the  greatest  impairment  in  cognitive  performance.  In  the 
prospective group, none of the patients exceeded the score of low average/borderline, but none was in 
the severely retarded category either. Data on mental status of OTC patients on antecedent treatment 
and on PB are shown, no evident difference between treatments emerges. 
The significance of the results in cognitive development is difficult to estimate because only some of 
the  patients  were  evaluated  repeatedly,  the  reliability  of  estimates  during  the  first  months  of  life  is 
unknown and different types of tests were sometimes used to assess the same patient. However, this 
population is vulnerable to episodes of hyperammonaemic encephalopathy, each of which may result 
in neurological damage. Historical data suggest that untreated patients with UCDs are on a trajectory 
of cognitive decline.  
9/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth - Both height and weight of these patients were lower than average upon entry into the study. 
Rescue  patients  showed  the  largest  deviations  from  normal.  Height  and  weight-for-age  z  scores 
remained  relatively  stable  over  time,  demonstrating  that  PB  does  not  alter  the  expected  growth 
trajectory. 
Plasma ammonium and glutamine levels - Plasma ammonium values (excluding those obtained during 
hospitalisation for an hyperammonaemic episode) of 85 patients during periods of stable disease (281 
measurements)  have  been  reported.  A  total  of  45  patients  (53%)  had  at  least  one  measurement 
exceeding the upper limit of normal and 6% of the values were more than two times higher than the 
upper  limit  for  normal.  Plasma  glutamine  concentration  has  been  shown  to  correlate  with  plasma 
ammonium  concentration  and  should  be  maintained  at  levels  less  than  1000  µmol/l.  Higher  levels 
indicate  that  dietary  or  drug  therapy  requires  modification.  Glutamine  levels  (mean  ±  SD  in  µmol/l, 
normal range, 337-673) during treatment with PB according to the type of enzyme deficiency were the 
following: 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
• 
rescue and prospective group <18 y (n=77) 
late-onset OTC males <18 y (n=17) 
late-onset OTC and CPS >18 y (n=8) 
OTC females > 18 y (n=19) 
OTC females <18 y (n=47) 
677 ± 343 
700 ± 331 
1001 ± 426 
1004 ± 298 
1074 ± 369 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
No controlled trials have been done to test the effect of alternative medication (e.g. sodium benzoate, 
sodium phenylacetate). The superiority, if any, of phenylbutyrate over phenylacetate remains a matter 
for conjecture. A study against placebo is not feasible for ethical reasons. 
Published data indicate that treatment with PA and/or PB resulted in less HA episodes than did treatment 
with sodium benzoate alone. From historical data on female heterozygous patients with undiagnosed OTC 
deficiency, 11 of 61 patients (18%) had experienced episodes of encephalopathy and 9 had died during or 
subsequent  to  those  episodes.  For  symptomatic  OTC  deficiency  females  having  had  at  least  one  HA 
episode,  29  of  32  patients  survived  at  least  five  years.  The  comparison  suggests  an  effect  of  PB  on 
mortality, albeit details of treatment duration are not sufficient to allow a direct comparison. 
A number of patients with various UCDs have received orthotopic liver transplant to provide enzyme 
replacement  therapy.  A  review  of  the  results  from  a  US  survey  on  16  UCD  patients  transplanted 
between  1986  and  1996  (10  OTC,  3  CPS  and  3  ASS)  indicates  a  survival  rate  of  88%  (14  patients 
were alive) in a follow-up period of approximately 1-6 years. Liver transplantation may offer a better 
outcome;  however,  insufficient  time  has  elapsed  for  the  adverse  effects  of  immunosuppression  to 
emerge. The possibility of liver transplantation has been mentioned in the SPC. 
Clinical safety 
Safety  exposure  data  has  been  acquired  from  the  case  reports  prepared  by  the  investigators 
participating in the clinical study. The data presented below have been taken from the last-up-to date 
individual data listings covering 183 patients.  
Deaths - One patient died from metabolic acidosis and cerebral oedema following accidental overdose of 
sodium benzoate and PA after mis prescription of an intravenous rescue regimen. 
Withdrawal from studies due to adverse events - The reasons for withdrawal from PB therapy often do not 
relate  to  adverse  events  but  to  the  difficulties  of  follow  up  and  to  alternative  therapies  such  as  liver 
transplantation. Fifteen patients (8%) had a liver transplant. Thirteen other patients withdrew from the 
study because of poor compliance or upon parent’s request, which was often related to poor tolerance 
or poor  acceptance of the drug  by the child. The adverse events leading to discontinuation seem to be 
nausea, vomiting, headache, unpleasant taste, behavioural changes, and unsteadiness/dizziness. 
Serious  adverse events and adverse events - Given the dependence of  the PB protocols on  spontaneous 
reporting,  the  lack  of  a  questionnaire  or  diary  and  the  mental  retardation  of  many  of  the  patients, 
assessment of AEs is bound to be incomplete, and the frequency of adverse events must be regarded as 
an approximation. Among 183 patients, 102 patients (56%) reported at least one adverse event; a total 
of  248  events  were  reported.  Among  these  248  events,  90  were  related  to  central  nervous  system 
10/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(36%), such as hyperactivity, speech disorder, seizures, and mental retardation; but many of these are 
likely to be due to the neurological condition of the patients associated with UCDs. 
The other most frequent adverse events were reported as follows: amenorrhoea and irregular menstrual 
cycles  (23 %  of  menstruating  female  patients),  decreased  appetite  (4 %  of  all  patients),  body  odour 
probably caused by the metabolite, phenylacetate (3 %) and bad taste or taste aversion (3 %). 
Cases of the following were reported in 2 % or fewer patients: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea/vomiting, constipation, rectal bleeding, peptic 
ulcer disease, pancreatitis 
haematological: aplastic anaemia and ecchymoses 
cardiovascular: arrhythmia and oedema 
renal: renal tubular acidosis 
psychiatric: depression 
skin: rash. 
miscellaneous: headache, syncope and weight gain. 
Laboratory abnomalities - It is difficult to discriminate between changes associated with PB and those 
due to UCD. They were reported as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
metabolic: acidosis (14 %), alkalosis (7 %), hyperchloremia (7 %), hypophosphatemia (6 %), 
hyperuricemia (2 %), hyperphosphatemia (2 %), hypernatremia (1 %) and hypokalemia (1 %) 
nutritional: hypoalbuminemia (11 %) and decreased total protein (3 %) 
hepatic: increased alkaline phosphatase (6 %), increased liver transaminases (4 %) and 
hyperbilirubinemia (1 %) 
haematological: anaemia (9 %), leucopenia (4 %), leucocytosis (4 %), thrombocytopenia (3 %) 
and thrombocytosis (1 %) 
Reversible neurotoxicity - In the Phase I pharmacokinetic studies conducted in cancer patients and in 
children with lysinuric protein intolerance where PA has been administered intravenously, symptoms 
of  neurotoxicity  have  been  observed.  These  manifestations  were  predominantly  somnolence  and 
dizziness. They were rapidly reversible and clearly related to plasma concentrations of PA higher than 
3.5 mmol/l. As expected for such a small and lipophilic molecule, PA readily penetrates into the CNS. 
Pregnancy and lactation - Regarding the use of PB during pregnancy, concerns have been raised in 
view of its effect on rapidly dividing cells and of the results of animal toxicity studies. PB should not 
be used during pregnancy and breast-feeding because pre- and postnatal exposure studies in rat pups 
have shown that PA produces CNS lesions. Appropriate information has been given in the SPC. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Long-term  data  on  the  safety  of  PB  in  the  treatment  of  UCD  are  sparse.  Since  patients  were  not 
monitored under controlled conditions and were not provided a diary for recording adverse events, the 
documentation of the events was not consistent. Many events could be a consequence of the diseases; 
the  often-profound  mental  retardation  of  the  patients  and  the  difficulty  of  separating  possible  side 
effects of treatments from those of the underlying diseases make evaluation difficult. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality - The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. However, the impurity limits and the dissolution specification will be 
reviewed in the light of the data from future production batches of the active substance and finished 
products. The shelf-life content limits for both finished products will also be reviewed in the light of 
further stability results. 
Preclinical  pharmacology  and  toxicology  -  Toxicological  evaluation  is  particularly  difficult  to 
interpret  because  of  differences  between  humans  and  animals.  Available  data  indicate  that  sodium 
phenylbutyrate  acts  as  a  pro-drug,  and  the  mechanism  of  action  of  the  active  metabolite, 
phenylacetate, is dependent on the biochemical mechanisms used to metabolise and excrete nitrogen. 
11/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since  these  differ  significantly  between  mammalian  species,  a  suitable  animal  model  is  difficult  to 
achieve.  
In a review of the available data, no overt toxicity was noted. A bacterial reverse mutation and a rat 
bone  marrow  micronucleus  test  have  been  carried  out  with  sodium  phenylbutyrate  and  did  not  give 
rise  to  any  evidence  of  mutagenic  potential.  Carcinogenicity  and  fertility  studies  have  not  been 
conducted. The available data indicate that PB is foetotoxic, affecting mainly the brain. Appropriate 
information has been included in the SPC and pregnancy is contra-indicated. 
The deficiencies of the pre-clinical section of the dossier should be viewed in the light of the CPMP 
recommendation  for  an  approval  under  exceptional  circumstances.  As  required  for  an  authorisation 
under  exceptional  circumstances,  appropriate  information  is  provided  in  the  product  information  to 
draw the attention of the medical practitioner to the fact that the currently available data concerning 
the medicinal product in question is inadequate in certain specified respects. The conditions for which 
this  medicinal  product  would  be  indicated  would  fall  within  the  scope  of  the  Proposed  European 
Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) on Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Efficacy  -  Clinical  data  from  the  US  IND  program,  supported  by  data  from  the  published  literature, 
have  been  used  to  demonstrate  that  sodium  phenylbutyrate  is  a  safe  and  effective  treatment  for  the 
chronic  treatment  of  UCD.  No  controlled  trials  have  been  done  to  test  the  effect  of  alternative 
medication.  A  study  against  placebo  is  not  feasible  for ethical reasons. However,  the  data  presented 
suggest  a  treatment  effect  of  PB  but  its  merits  relative  to  other  pharmacological  intervention  are 
undecided.  
Safety - Long-term safety exposure data of PB in the treatment of UCD are sparse, but in view of the 
rarity  of  the  diseases,  the  often-profound  mental  retardation  of  the  patients  and  the  difficulty  of 
separating possible side effects of treatments from those of the underlying diseases, the safety profile 
was accepted as being sufficient to allow authorisation. Monitoring of laboratory parameters, plasma 
ammonium and glutamine levels are recommended in the SPC. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Taking  into  account  the  fact  that  UCDs  is  a  rare  disease,  with  limited  treatment  options,  and 
potentially  devastating  consequences,  the  CPMP  considered  that,  despite  the  limited  data  available 
with  respect  to  pre-clinical  and  clinical  sections  of  the  dossier,  PB  offers  an  acceptable  adjunctive 
therapy in the chronic management of the UCDs. 
Overall, progressive improvement in the prevention of hyperammonaemic episodes has been achieved 
in  the  successive  therapeutic  protocols  that  have  resulted  in  the  use  of  PB.  At  present,  the  overall 
survival rate is approximately 80% for a disease, which in its neonatal presentation was almost always 
fatal within the first year of life. Clinical results indicate that early diagnosis and immediate initiation 
of therapy are important in minimising developmental disabilities. The experience to date is suggestive 
that  stabilisation  of  cognitive  performance  can  be  obtained  by  preventing  episodes  of 
hyperammonaemic encephalopathy. 
For optimal results, PB should be combined as adjunctive therapy with dietary management and amino 
acid supplementation. Nutritional management is essential in these patients and their diet needs to be 
custom-designed by their physician. 
Regarding  the  use  of  PB  during  pregnancy  and  lactation,  concerns  have  been  raised  in  view  of  the 
results of animal toxicity studies. PB is contra-indicated during pregnancy and breast-feeding because 
exposure studies in rat pups have shown that PA produces CNS lesions.  
In  view  of  its  high  sodium  content,  PB  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  a  risk  of 
developing oedema. Similarly patients with impaired hepatic function are in a higher risk of toxicity, 
since the neurotoxic product PA may accumulate. 
In conclusion, based on the available data on quality, safety and efficacy, and despite the deficiencies 
in  the  documentation  provided  and  considering  the  favourable  benefit/risk  ratio  for  this  medicinal 
product intended for a fatal and very rare disease, the CPMP recommended a Marketing Authorisation 
should  be  granted  for  this  medicinal  product  under  exceptional  circumstances  in  accordance  with 
Article  13  (2)  of  Council  Regulation  (EEC)  No  2309/93,  as  amended,  and  Part  4  G  of  the annex  to 
Council Directive 75/318/EEC. 
12/12 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
