EMA/682333/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004879 
Amsparity (adalimumab) 
An overview of Amsparity and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Amsparity and what is it used for? 
Amsparity is a medicine that acts on the immune system (the body’s natural defences) and is used to 
treat the following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin); 
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin with inflammation of the joints); 
rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints); 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis (both rare diseases causing 
inflammation in the joints); 
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain), including ankylosing 
spondylitis and when there are clear signs of inflammation but X-ray does not show disease; 
•  Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the gut); 
•  ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut); 
•  hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa), a chronic skin disease that causes lumps, abscesses 
(collections of pus) and scarring on the skin; 
•  non-infectious uveitis (inflammation of the layer beneath the white of the eyeball). 
Amsparity is mostly used in adults when their condition is severe, moderately severe or getting worse, 
or when patients cannot use other treatments. For more information on the use of Amsparity in all 
conditions, including when it can be used in children, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Amsparity contains the active substance adalimumab and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that 
Amsparity is highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already 
authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Amsparity is Humira.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How is Amsparity used? 
Amsparity is available for injection under the skin in a vial or pre-filled syringe or pen and is usually 
given every 2 weeks. The dose and frequency of injection depend on the condition to be treated and 
the dose for a child is usually calculated according to the child’s weight. After training, patients or their 
carers may inject Amsparity if their doctor considers it appropriate. 
Amsparity can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of the diseases for which Amsparity is used. Eye specialists 
treating uveitis should also take advice from doctors who have experience of using adalimumab. 
For more information about using Amsparity, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Amsparity work? 
The active substance in Amsparity, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to attach to a substance in the body called tumour necrosis factor (TNF). TNF is 
involved in causing inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with the diseases that 
Amsparity is used to treat. By attaching to TNF, adalimumab blocks its activity, thereby reducing 
inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Amsparity have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Amsparity with the reference medicine Humira have shown that the 
active substance in Amsparity is highly similar to that in Humira in terms of structure, purity and 
biological activity. Studies have also shown that giving Amsparity produces similar levels of the active 
substance in the body to giving Humira. 
In addition, a main study involving 597 patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis 
whose disease had not responded well enough to methotrexate has shown that Amsparity is as 
effective as Humira in reducing symptoms of the disease. The study compared the two medicines, each 
given with methotrexate. After 12 weeks, the proportion of patients with a 20% improvement in 
symptom score (called ACR20) was 68% (203 of 297 patients) with Amsparity and 71% (214 of 300 
patients) with Humira. 
Because Amsparity is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of adalimumab 
carried out with Humira do not all need to be repeated for Amsparity. 
What are the risks associated with Amsparity? 
The safety of Amsparity has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Humira. 
The most common side effects with adalimumab (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
infections (including in the nose, throat and sinuses), injection site reactions (redness, itching, 
bleeding, pain or swelling), headache and muscle and bone pain. 
Like other medicines of its class, Amsparity may affect the ability of the immune system to fight off 
infections and cancer, and there have been some cases of serious infections and blood cancers in 
patients using adalimumab. 
Other rare serious side effects of adalimumab (which may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) include 
failure of bone marrow to produce blood cells, disorder of the nerves, lupus and lupus-like conditions 
(where the immune system attacks the patient’s own tissues, causing inflammation and organ 
Amsparity (adalimumab)  
EMA/682333/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
damage), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and painful 
rash affecting the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals). 
Amsparity must not be used in patients with active tuberculosis or other severe infections, or in 
patients with moderate to severe heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump enough blood around 
the body). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Amsparity, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Amsparity authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Amsparity has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Humira and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, a study in rheumatoid arthritis has shown that 
the effectiveness of Amsparity is equivalent to that of Humira. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Amsparity will behave in the same way as 
Humira in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Humira, the benefits of Amsparity outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Amsparity? 
Patients treated with Amsparity must be given a reminder card with information on the safety of the 
medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Amsparity have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Amsparity are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Amsparity are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Amsparity 
Amsparity received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 February 2020. 
Further information on Amsparity can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/amsparity.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2020. 
Amsparity (adalimumab)  
EMA/682333/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
