Summary of risk management plan for Amversio 1 g 
(betaine anhydrous) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Amversio 1 g. The RMP details important 
risks of Amversio 1 g and how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be 
obtained about risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Amversio 1 g’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Amversio 1 g should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Amversio 1 g should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Amversio 1 g's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Amversio 1 g is authorised for adjunctive treatment of homocystinuria, involving deficiencies or defects 
in: 
- cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS), 
- 5,10-methylene-tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), 
- cobalamin cofactor metabolism (cbl). 
Betaine anhydrous should be used as supplement to other therapies such as vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), 
vitamin B12 (cobalamin), folate and a specific diet. (see SmPC for the full indication). 
It contains betaine anhydrous as the active substance and it is given by oral route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Amversio 1 g’s benefits can be found in Amversio 1 g’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/amversio.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Amversio 1 g, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Amversio 1 g are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of Amversio 1 g. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet 
and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Amversio 1 g. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Amversio 1 g. 
Rev.2.0.1 accompanying GVP Module V Rev.2 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
