EMA/669739/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005852 
Amvuttra (vutrisiran) 
An overview of Amvuttra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Amvuttra and what is it used for? 
Amvuttra is a medicine used to treat polyneuropathy (nerve damage) caused by hereditary 
transthyretin-mediated (hATTR) amyloidosis, a disease in which abnormal proteins called amyloids 
build up in tissues around the body including around the nerves. 
Amvuttra is used in adult patients in the first two stages of the nerve damage (stage 1, when the 
patient has weakness in the legs but is able to walk unaided, and stage 2, when the patient can still 
walk but needs help). 
hATTR amyloidosis is rare, and Amvuttra was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 25 May 2018. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here. 
Amvuttra contains the active substance vutrisiran. 
How is Amvuttra used? 
Amvuttra can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by 
a doctor experienced in the treatment of patients with amyloidosis. Treatment should begin as early as 
possible after diagnosis, to avoid further progression of the disease. 
The medicine is available as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous) in the abdomen, thigh, or 
upper arm. The recommended dose is 25 mg once every 3 months. Patients should also take vitamin A 
supplements during treatment with Amvuttra. 
For patients whose disease progresses to stage 3 polyneuropathy, the doctor may continue treatment 
if the benefits outweigh the risks.  
For more information about using Amvuttra, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Amvuttra work? 
In patients with hATTR amyloidosis, a protein called transthyretin which circulates in the blood is 
defective and breaks easily. The broken protein forms amyloid deposits in tissues and organs around 
the body, including around nerves, where it interferes with the normal organ function. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Amvuttra, vutrisiran, is a ‘small interfering RNA’ (siRNA), a very short piece of 
synthetic genetic material, that has been designed to attach to and block the genetic material of the 
cells responsible for producing transthyretin. This reduces production of defective transthyretin, 
thereby reducing the formation of amyloids and relieving the symptoms of hATTR amyloidosis. 
What benefits of Amvuttra have been shown in studies? 
In one main study involving 164 patients with hATTR amyloidosis with stage 1 or 2 nerve damage, 
Amvuttra was shown effective at slowing down the nerve damage caused by the disease.  
The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the patients’ nerve damage, as measured by a 
standard scale called ‘mNIS+7’, where a decreased score indicates an improvement and an increased 
score indicates worsening nerve damage. After 18 months of treatment, the mNIS+7 score decreased 
on average by around 0.5 points with Amvuttra. This was compared with an average increase of 28 
points seen with placebo (a dummy treatment) in another study involving 225 patients comparing 
Onpattro (another hATTR amyloidosis medicine) with placebo.  
The study also showed that treatment with Amvuttra was at least as effective as Onpattro at reducing 
transthyretin levels. 
What are the risks associated with Amvuttra? 
The most common side effects with Amvuttra (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are pain in 
the extremities (arms and legs) and arthralgia (joint pain). 
For the full list of side effects of Amvuttra, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Amvuttra authorised in the EU? 
Amvuttra was shown to be effective at slowing down nerve damage in patients with hATTR amyloidosis 
with stage 1 or stage 2 nerve damage. Regarding safety, the side effects are considered manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that Amvuttra’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Amvuttra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Amvuttra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Amvuttra are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Amvuttra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Amvuttra 
Amvuttra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2022. 
Further information on Amvuttra can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/amvuttra.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2022. 
Amvuttra (vutrisiran)  
EMA/669739/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
