ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
Each mL of solution for injection contains 800 MBq of florbetapir (18F) at the date and time of 
calibration (ToC). 
The activity per vial ranges from 800 MBq to 12,000 MBq at the ToC. 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
Each mL of solution for injection contains 1,900 MBq of florbetapir (18F) at the ToC.  
The activity per vial ranges from 1,900 MBq to 28,500 MBq at the ToC.  
Fluorine (18F) decays to stable oxygen (18O) with a half-life of approximately 110 minutes by emitting 
a positron radiation of 634 keV, followed by photonic annihilation radiation of 511 keV. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each dose contains up to 790 mg of ethanol and 37 mg of sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Amyvid is a radiopharmaceutical indicated for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of 
β-amyloid neuritic plaque density in the brains of adult patients with cognitive impairment who are 
being evaluated for Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and other causes of cognitive impairment. Amyvid 
should be used in conjunction with a clinical evaluation.  
A negative scan indicates sparse or no plaques, which is not consistent with a diagnosis of AD. For the 
limitations in the interpretation of a positive scan, see sections 4.4 and 5.1.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
A PET scan with florbetapir (18F) should be requested by physicians skilled in the clinical 
management of neurodegenerative disorders. 
Amyvid images should only be interpreted by readers trained in the interpretation of PET images with 
florbetapir (18F). A recent co-registered computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance (MR) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
imaging of the patient to get a fused PET-CT or PET-MR image is recommended in cases of 
uncertainty about the location of grey matter and of the grey/white matter border in the PET scan (see 
section 4.4. Image interpretation).  
Posology 
The recommended activity for an adult weighing 70 kg is 370 MBq florbetapir (18F). The volume of 
the injection should not be less than 1 mL and not exceed 10 mL. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is recommended based on age. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Careful consideration of the activity to be administered is required since an increased radiation 
exposure is possible in these patients (see section 4.4). 
Extensive dose-range and adjustment studies with the medicinal product in normal and special 
populations have not been performed. The pharmacokinetics of florbetapir (18F) in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment have not been characterised. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Amyvid in the paediatric population. 
Method of administration 
Amyvid is for intravenous use and multidose use. 
The activity of florbetapir (18F) has to be measured with an activimeter (dose calibrator) immediately 
prior to injection.  
The dose is administered by intravenous bolus injection, followed by a flush of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure full delivery of the dose. 
Injection of florbetapir (18F) through a short intravenous catheter (approximately 4 cm or less) 
minimises the potential for adsorption of the active substance to the catheter. 
The injection of florbetapir (18F) must be intravenous in order to avoid irradiation as a result of local 
extravasation, as well as imaging artefacts. 
Image acquisition 
A 10 minute PET image should be acquired starting approximately 30 to 50 minutes after intravenous 
injection of Amyvid. Patients should be supine with the head positioned to centre the brain, including 
the cerebellum, in the PET scanner field of view. Reducing head movement with tape or other flexible 
head restraints may be employed. Reconstruction should include attenuation correction with resulting 
transaxial pixel sizes between 2.0 and 3.0 mm. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Limitations of use 
A positive scan does not independently establish a diagnosis of AD or other cognitive disorder since 
neuritic plaque deposition in grey matter may be present in asymptomatic elderly and some 
neurodegenerative dementias (Alzheimer’s disease, Lewy body dementia, Parkinson’s disease 
dementia).  
For the limitations of use in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), see section 5.1. 
The efficacy of Amyvid for predicting development of AD or monitoring response to therapy has not 
been established (see section 5.1). 
Some scans may be difficult to interpret due to image noise, atrophy with a thinned cortical ribbon, or 
image blur, which could lead to interpretation errors. For cases in which there is uncertainty about the 
location of grey matter and of the grey/white matter border on the PET scan, and a co-registered recent 
CT or MR image is available, the interpreter should examine the fused PET-CT or PET-MR image to 
clarify the relationship of the PET radioactivity and the grey matter anatomy. 
Increased uptake has been identified in extracerebral structures such as salivary glands, skin, muscles 
and bone in some cases (see section 5.2). Examination of sagittal images and co-registered CT or MR 
images could help to distinguish occipital bone from occipital grey matter. 
Individual benefit/risk justification 
For each patient, the radiation exposure must be justifiable by the likely benefit. The activity 
administered should, in every case, be as low as reasonably achievable to obtain the required 
diagnostic information. 
Renal impairment and hepatic impairment 
Careful consideration of the benefit risk ratio in these patients is required since an increased radiation 
exposure is possible. Florbetapir (18F) is excreted primarily through the hepatobiliary system and 
patients with hepatic impairment have the potential of increased radiation exposure (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
For information on the use in the paediatric population, see sections 4.2 or 5.1. 
Interpretation of Amyvid images 
Amyvid images should only be interpreted by readers trained in the interpretation of PET images with 
florbetapir (18F). A negative scan indicates sparse or no density of cortical β-amyloid plaques. A 
positive scan indicates moderate to frequent density. Image interpretation errors in the estimation of 
brain β-amyloid neuritic plaque density, including false negatives, have been observed.  
Review of images should be primarily in the transaxial orientation with access as needed to the sagittal 
and coronal planes. It is recommended that review of images include all transaxial slices of the brain 
using a black-white scale with the maximum intensity of the scale set to the maximum intensity of all 
brain pixels.  
Interpretation of the image as negative or positive is made by visually comparing the activity in 
cortical grey matter with activity in adjacent white matter (see Figure 1). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Negative scans have more activity in white matter than in grey matter, creating clear grey-white 
contrast. Positive scans will have either: 
a)  Two or more brain areas (each larger than a single cortical gyrus) in which there is reduced 
or absent grey-white contrast. This is the most common appearance of a positive scan; or 
b)  One or more areas in which grey matter activity is intense and clearly exceeds activity in 
adjacent white matter. 
Figure 1: Amyvid PET cases showing examples of negative scans (top two rows) and positive 
scans (bottom two rows). Left to right panels show sagittal, coronal, and transverse PET image 
slices. Final panel to right shows enlarged picture of the brain area in the box. The top two 
arrows are pointing to normal preserved grey-white contrast with the cortical activity less than 
the adjacent white matter. The bottom two arrows indicate areas of decreased grey-white 
contrast with increased cortical activity that is comparable to the activity in the adjacent white 
matter. 
Adjunctive use of quantitative information for image interpretation: 
Adjunctive use of amyloid PET quantitative information should only be used by readers trained in the 
application of quantitative information to aid visual image interpretation, including recommendations 
for selection of appropriate software to support the methods. Incorporation of quantitative information 
generated by CE-marked image quantitation software as an adjunct to the visual interpretation method 
may improve readers’ accuracy. Readers should visually interpret the scan, then perform quantitation 
according to manufacturer’s instructions, including quality checks of the quantitative process, and 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compare quantitation of scan with typical ranges for negative and positive scans. If the quantitation 
result is inconsistent with the initial visual interpretation: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
The spatial normalisation and fit of the scan to the template should be re-checked to confirm the 
accuracy of the placement of the regions of interest (ROIs), search for CSF or bone within the 
ROI, and evaluate the potential impact of atrophy or ventriculomegaly on quantitation. 
The basis for making a visual positive or negative determination should be reviewed: 
a. 
In the case of an amyloid positive initial visual read and negative quantitation, the 
physician should consider whether the positive visual interpretation might be based on 
tracer retention in regions outside the ROIs that contribute to the cortical average 
standardised uptake value ratio (SUVR). 
In the case of an amyloid negative initial visual read and an amyloid positive quantitation, 
the regions corresponding to the ROIs with elevated SUVR should be examined to 
determine whether there is a loss of grey/white contrast in these areas. 
b. 
The cerebellum region should be examined to confirm the fit of the ROI and the level of 
grey/white contrast, which provides a standard for visual comparison to cortex. Possible 
structural anomalies that could influence quantitation of the cerebellar region should be 
considered. 
A final interpretation of the scan should be made based on the final visual read after conducting 
resolution steps 1-3 above. 
After the procedure 
Close contact with infants and pregnant women should be restricted during the initial 24 hours 
following the injection. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains up to 37 mg sodium per dose, equivalent to 1.85 % of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
Ethanol 
This medicinal product contains 790 mg of alcohol (ethanol) in each 10 mL dose, which is equivalent 
to 11.3 mg/kg (administered to an adult with 70 kg). The amount in 10 mL of this medicinal product is 
equivalent to less than 20 mL beer or 8 mL wine.  
The small amount of alcohol in this medicinal product will not have any noticeable effects. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No in vivo interaction studies have been performed.  
In vitro binding studies have not shown interference of florbetapir (18F) binding to β-amyloid plaques 
in the presence of other common medicinal products taken by AD patients. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential  
When an administration of radiopharmaceuticals to a woman of childbearing potential is intended, it is 
important to determine whether or not she is pregnant. Any woman who has missed a period should be 
assumed to be pregnant until proven otherwise. If in doubt about her potential pregnancy (if the 
woman has missed a period, if the period is very irregular, etc.), alternative techniques not using 
ionising radiation (if there are any) should be offered to the patient. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
Radionuclide procedures carried out on pregnant women also involve radiation dose to the foetus. 
Only essential investigations should therefore be carried out during pregnancy, when the likely benefit 
far exceeds the risk incurred by the mother and foetus. 
No studies have been conducted in pregnant women. No animal studies have been conducted to 
investigate the reproductive effects of florbetapir (18F) (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether florbetapir (18F) is excreted in human milk during breast-feeding. Before 
administering radiopharmaceuticals to a mother who is breast-feeding consideration should be given to 
the possibility of delaying the administration of radionuclide until the mother has ceased 
breast-feeding, and to what is the most appropriate choice of radiopharmaceuticals, bearing in mind 
the secretion of activity in breast milk. If the administration is considered necessary, breast-feeding 
should be interrupted for 24 hours and the expressed feeds discarded.  
Close contact with infants should be restricted during the initial 24 hours following injection. 
Fertility 
No studies on fertility have been performed. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Amyvid has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety profile of Amyvid is based on its administrations to 2,105 subjects in clinical trials. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are defined as very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon 
(≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). While they may in reality occur at lower frequencies than indicated 
below, the size of the source database did not allow for the assignment of frequency categories lower 
than the category “uncommon” (≥1/1,000 to <1/100). 
System organ class 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Headache 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Uncommon 
Dysgeusia 
Flushing 
Nausea 
Pruritus 
Urticaria 
Injection site reactiona 
Infusion site rash 
aInjection site reaction includes injection site haemorrhage, injection site irritation, and injection site 
pain 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to ionising radiation is linked with cancer induction and a potential for development of 
hereditary defects. As the effective dose is 7 mSv when the recommended activity of 370 MBq of 
florbetapir (18F) is administered, these adverse reactions are expected to occur with low probability.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Due to the small quantity of florbetapir (18F) in each dose, overdose is not expected to result in 
pharmacological effects. In the event of administration of a radiation overdose, the absorbed dose to 
the patient should be reduced where possible by increasing the elimination of the radionuclide from 
the body by frequent micturition and defaecation. It might be helpful to estimate the effective dose that 
was applied. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: diagnostic radiopharmaceutical, central nervous system, ATC code: 
V09AX05 
Mechanism of action  
Florbetapir (18F) binds to β-amyloid neuritic plaques. Binding studies using traditional 
neuropathological staining methods in post-mortem AD brains demonstrated statistically significant 
(p < 0.0001) correlations between in vitro florbetapir (18F) binding and β-amyloid aggregate 
deposition. In vivo, correlation was assessed in end-of-life patients between florbetapir (18F) uptake in 
cortical grey matter and the total β-amyloid burden using 4G8 anti-amyloid antibody that stains 
β-amyloid found in both neuritic and diffuse plaques. The in vivo binding of florbetapir (18F) to other 
β-amyloid structures or other brain structures or receptors remains unknown. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
At the low chemical concentrations present in Amyvid, florbetapir (18F) does not have any detectable 
pharmacological activity.  
In completed clinical trials, uptake of florbetapir (18F) in 6 predefined cortical areas of the brain 
(precuneus, frontal, anterior cingulate, posterior cingulate, parietal and temporal) was measured 
quantitatively using standardised uptake values (SUV). Cortical average SUV ratios (SUVRs, relative 
to cerebellum) are higher in AD patients compared with those of healthy volunteer subjects. The 
average cortical to cerebellar SUVR values in AD patients show continual substantial increases from 
time zero through 30 minutes post-administration, with only small changes thereafter up to 90 minutes 
post-injection. No differences in SUVR results were noted in subjects taking common AD treatments 
relative to those not taking AD treatments. 
Clinical efficacy  
A pivotal study in 59 end-of-life patients was aimed at establishing the diagnostic performance of 
Amyvid to detect the cortical neuritic plaque density (no or sparse vs. moderate or frequent). The PET 
results were compared with the maximal neuritic plaque density measured on sections of frontal, 
temporal or parietal cortex at the patient’s autopsy within 24 months of PET scan. The cognitive status 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the subjects could not be reliably measured. In all 59 subjects, a blinded PET reading by 5 nuclear 
medicine physicians resulted in a majority read sensitivity of 92% (95% CI: 78-98%) and specificity 
of 100% (95% CI: 80-100%). In a study of 47 young (<40 years) healthy volunteers, presumed to be 
free of β-amyloid, all Amyvid PET scans were negative. 
Sensitivity and specificity to detect the cortical neuritic plaque density of Amyvid was further 
investigated in two additional studies, in which different sets of readers interpreted images from some 
subjects followed to autopsy in the pivotal study. Their results closely paralleled the results obtained in 
the pivotal trial. Inter-rater agreement using Fleiss’ kappa values ranged from 0.75 to 0.85.  
In a longitudinal study, 142 subjects (clinically diagnosed as MCI, AD or cognitively normal) 
underwent baseline florbetapir (18F) PET scans, and were followed for 3 years to evaluate the 
relationship between Amyvid imaging and changes in diagnostic status.  
Diagnostic performance values of florbetapir (18F) PET are tabulated below: 
Agreement with baseline 
diagnosis of MCI 
N=51 
19/51 = 37.3% 
(95% CI: 24.1-51.9%) 
Using non-MCI cases 
(cognitively normal & clinical AD) 
69/100 = 69.0% 
(95% CI: 59.9-78.1%) 
Agreement with baseline 
diagnosis of clinical AD 
N=31 
21/31 = 67.7% 
(95% CI: 51.3-84.2%) 
Using non-AD cases 
(cognitively normal & MCI) 
91/120 = 75.8% 
(95% CI: 68.2-83.5%) 
1.20 (95% CI: 0.76-1.91) 
2.80 (95% CI: 1.88-4.18) 
Sensitivity 
Specificity 
Positive  
likelihood ratio 
Of the patients who had been clinically diagnosed with MCI at study entry, 9 (19%) converted to 
clinical AD 36 months later. Of the 17 MCI patients who had a positive PET scan, 6 (35%) were 
diagnosed with clinical probable AD 36 months later compared to 3 (10%) of 30 who had a negative 
scan. Sensitivity of Amyvid scan to show the MCI conversion rate to AD in 9 converters was 66.7% 
(95% CI: 35-88%), specificity in 38 non-converters was 71.0% (95% CI: 55-83%) and positive 
likelihood ratio was 2.31 (95% CI: 1.2-4.5). The design of this study does not allow estimating the risk 
of MCI progression to clinical AD. 
Adjunctive use of quantitative information for image interpretation  
The feasibility and reliability of using CE-marked quantitative software as an adjunct to clinical 
qualitative interpretation was investigated in two studies using three different commercially available 
quantitative software packages. Participating readers first evaluated a set of 96 PET scans, including 
46 scans with autopsy standard of truth, using the visual qualitative read method to establish a baseline 
and were subsequently asked to re-evaluate the same set of scans with or without access to quantitative 
software information. Across all participating readers who had access to quantitative information, 
average reader accuracy on the scans with autopsy standard of truth improved from 90.1% at baseline 
to 93.1% (p-value <0.0001), with no observed decrease in either sensitivity or specificity. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Amyvid in all subsets of the paediatric population as there is no intended use in the paediatric 
population. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Distribution  
Florbetapir (18F) is distributed throughout the body within several minutes of injection, and then is 
rapidly metabolised.  
Organ uptake 
Maximal brain uptake of florbetapir (18F) occurs within several minutes of injection, followed by rapid 
brain clearance during the first 30 minutes following injection. The organs of greatest exposure are 
organs of elimination, mainly the gallbladder, liver, and intestines.  
Healthy controls show relatively low levels of florbetapir (18F) retention in cortex and cerebellum. 
Regional analyses show slightly higher levels of retention in the caudate, putamen and hippocampus. 
The highest level of uptake is in regions mainly composed of white matter (pons and centrum 
semiovale). In AD subjects, cortical regions and putamen show significantly greater uptake compared 
to controls. In AD subjects, as in controls, there is low retention in cerebellum and hippocampus and 
high retention in pons and centrum semiovale. 
The biophysical basis of the white matter retention of florbetapir (18F) in the living human brain 
cannot be definitively explained. It is hypothesised that slower clearance of the radiopharmaceutical 
may contribute to white matter retention since regional cerebral blood flow in white matter is less than 
half of that of cortex. Uptake has also been identified in some cases in extracerebral structures such as 
scalp, salivary glands, muscles and cranial bone. The reason for this uptake is unknown, but may be 
due to accumulation of florbetapir (18F) or to any of its radioactive metabolites or to blood 
radioactivity. 
Elimination 
Elimination occurs primarily by clearance through the liver and excretion into the gallbladder and the 
intestines. Some accumulation/excretion is also observed in the urinary bladder. Radioactivity in urine 
is present as polar metabolites of florbetapir (18F). 
Half-life 
Florbetapir (18F) is very rapidly cleared from circulation post-intravenous injection. Less than 5% of 
the injected 18F radioactivity remains in blood 20 minutes following administration, and less than 2% 
is present 45 minutes after administration. The residual 18F in circulation during the 30-90 minute 
imaging window is principally in the form of polar 18F species. The radioactive half-life of 18F is 
110 minutes.  
Renal/hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics in patients with renal or hepatic impairment have not been characterised. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Animal toxicology and safety pharmacology 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology and single and repeated dose toxicity, in which florbetapir [the non-radioactive form of 
florbetapir (18F)] was used. An acute dose study was conducted in rats, and the NOAEL (no 
observable adverse effect level) was determined to be at least 100 times maximum human dose. The 
potential toxicity of 28 days of repeated intravenous injections of florbetapir was tested in rats and 
dogs, and the NOAEL was found to be at least 25 times the maximum human dose. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames test), increases in the number of revertant 
colonies were observed in 2 of the 5 strains exposed to florbetapir. In a chromosomal aberration in 
vitro study with cultured human peripheral lymphocyte cells, florbetapir did not increase the percent 
of cells with structural aberrations with 3 hour exposure with or without activation; however, 22 hour 
exposure produced an increase in structural aberrations at all tested concentrations. Potential in vivo 
genotoxicity of florbetapir was evaluated in a rat micronucleus study. In this assay, florbetapir did not 
increase the number of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes at the highest achievable dose 
level, 372 µg/kg/day, when given twice daily for 3 consecutive days. This dose is approximately 
500 times the maximum human dose, and showed no evidence of mutagenicity. 
No studies have been conducted in animals to investigate the potential long term carcinogenicity, 
fertility, or reproductive effects of florbetapir (18F). 
No animal toxicology and safety pharmacology studies have been performed with florbetapir (18F). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Ethanol, anhydrous 
Sodium ascorbate 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
7.5 hours from the ToC 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
10 hours from the ToC. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Storage of radiopharmaceuticals should be in accordance with national regulation on radioactive 
materials. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Amyvid is supplied in 10 mL or 15 mL clear Type I borosilicate glass vials with FluroTec-coated 
chlorobutyl elastomeric stoppers and aluminium seals.  
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
One multidose vial of 10 mL capacity contains 1 to 10 mL of solution, corresponding to 800 to 
8,000 MBq at ToC. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One multidose vial of 15 mL capacity contains 1 to 15 mL of solution, corresponding to 800 to 
12,000 MBq at ToC. 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
One multidose vial of 10 mL capacity contains 1 to 10 mL of solution, corresponding to 1,900 to 
19,000 MBq at ToC. 
One multidose vial of 15 mL capacity contains 1 to 15 mL of solution, corresponding to 1,900 to 
28,500 MBq at ToC. 
As a result of differences in the manufacturing process, it is possible that vials of some product 
batches are distributed with punctured rubber stoppers. 
Each vial is enclosed in a shielded container of appropriate thickness to minimise external radiation 
exposure. 
Pack size: 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
General warning 
Radiopharmaceuticals should be received, used and administered only by authorised persons in 
designated clinical settings. Their receipt, storage, use, transfer and disposal are subject to the 
regulations and/or appropriate licences of the competent official organisation.  
Radiopharmaceuticals should be prepared in a manner which satisfies both radiation safety and 
pharmaceutical quality requirements. Appropriate aseptic precautions should be taken. 
If the integrity of the vial is compromised it should not be used. 
Administration procedures should be carried out in a way to minimise risk of contamination of the 
medicinal product and irradiation of the operators. Adequate shielding is mandatory. 
The administration of radiopharmaceuticals creates risks for other persons (including pregnant 
healthcare professionals) from external radiation or contamination from spill of urine, vomiting etc. 
Radiation protection precautions in accordance with national regulations must therefore be taken. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83 
3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/805/001 
EU/1/12/805/002 
EU/1/12/805/003 
EU/1/12/805/004 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14 January 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 21 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
11.  DOSIMETRY 
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to organs and tissues of an average adult patient (70 kg) per 
370 MBq of florbetapir (18F) using standard methods for dosimetry calculations (ICRP Volume 30) is 
tabulated below. No assumptions were made regarding urinary bladder voiding. 
Organ/tissue 
Adrenal 
Brain 
Breasts 
Gallbladder wall 
Lower large intestine wall 
Small intestine 
Stomach wall 
Upper large intestine wall 
Heart wall 
Kidneys 
Liver 
Lungs 
Muscle 
Ovaries 
Pancreas 
Red marrow 
Osteogenic cells 
Skin 
Spleen 
Testes 
Thymus 
Thyroid 
Urinary bladder wall 
Uterus 
Total body 
Effective Dose [µSv/MBq]a 
a  Assumed quality factor (Q) of 1 for conversion of absorbed dose to effective dose for 18F. 
Dose absorbed per activity administered 
(µGy/MBq) 
Average 
13.6 
10.0 
6.2 
143.0 
27.8 
65.5 
11.7 
74.4 
12.7 
13.0 
64.4 
8.5 
8.6 
17.6 
14.4 
14.3 
27.6 
5.9 
8.9 
6.8 
7.3 
6.8 
27.1 
15.6 
11.6 
18.6 
The effective dose resulting from the administration of a 370 MBq dose for an adult weighing 70 kg is 
about 7 mSv. If a CT scan is simultaneously performed as part of the PET procedure, exposure to 
ionising radiation will increase in an amount dependent on the settings used in the CT acquisition. For 
an administered activity of 370 MBq the typical radiation dose to the target organ (brain) is 3.7 mGy. 
For an administered activity of 370 MBq the typical radiation doses delivered to the critical organs, 
gallbladder, upper large intestine wall, lower large intestine wall, small intestine and liver are 53 mGy, 
27.5 mGy, 10.3 mGy, 24.2 mGy and 23.8 mGy, respectively. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS 
Method of preparation 
The package must be checked before use and the activity measured using an activimeter. 
Withdrawals should be performed under aseptic conditions. The vials must not be opened before 
disinfecting the stopper, the solution should be withdrawn via the stopper using a single dose syringe 
fitted with suitable protective shielding and a disposable sterile needle or using an authorised 
automated application system. Only polypropylene/HDPE syringes should be used. If the integrity of 
the vial is compromised, the product should not be used. 
Amyvid may be diluted aseptically with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to a 
maximum dilution of 1:5. Diluted product must be used within 4 hours of dilution. 
Quality control 
The solution should be inspected visually prior to use. Only clear solutions, free of visible particles 
should be used. 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Germany GmbH 
Saime-Genc-Ring 18 
53121 Bonn 
Germany  
Advanced Accelerator Applications (Italy), S.r.l. 
Via Piero Maroncelli 40 
47014 Meldola (FC) 
Italy 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Ibérica, S.L. 
Polígono Industrial la Cuesta-Sector 3. Parcelas 1 y 2 
La Almunia de Doña Godina, 50100 Zaragoza 
Spain  
PETNET Solutions SAS 
ZAC du Bois Chaland  
15 rue des Pyrénées 
91090 Lisses 
France 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch in each Member State the MAH shall agree the final educational programme with the 
National Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussions and agreement with the National Competent 
Authorities in each Member State where Amyvid is marketed, at launch and after launch, all 
physicians who are expected to use Amyvid have access to a training course in order to ensure 
accurate and reliable interpretation of the PET images.  
The physician training course should contain the following key elements:  
•  Information on amyloid pathology in Alzheimer Disease; relevant information on Amyvid as an 
β-amyloid PET tracer, including the approved indication according to the SmPC, limitations of 
Amyvid use, interpretation errors, safety information and the results of clinical trials informing 
on the diagnostic use of Amyvid 
•  Review of the PET reading criteria, including method of image review, criteria for 
interpretation, and images demonstrating the binary read methodology 
•  The material should include Amyvid PET demonstration cases with correct PET scan 
interpretation by an experienced reader; Amyvid-PET scans for self-assessment; and a self-
qualification procedure to be offered to each trainee. Training should include a sufficient 
number of clearly positive and negative cases as well as intermediate level cases. Cases should 
be histopathologically confirmed, if possible.  
•  Expertise and qualification of trainers in both electronic and in-person training should be 
ensured.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
SHIELD LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
florbetapir (18F) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of solution for injection contains 800 MBq of florbetapir (18F) at date and time of calibration 
(ToC). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Anhydrous ethanol, sodium ascorbate, sodium chloride, water for injections. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 vial 
Volume: {Z} mL  
Activity: {Y} MBq in {Z}mL  
ToC: {DD/MM/YYYY} {hh:mm}{Time Zone} 
Vial No. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intravenous use 
Multidose 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
 Radioactive material 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 53121, Bonn, Germany 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 47014, Meldola, Italy 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 50100, Zaragoza, Spain 
PETNET Solutions SAS, 91090, Lisses, France  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {DD/MM/YYYY} {hh:mm}{Time Zone} 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/805/001 (10 mL) 
EU/1/12/805/002 (15 mL) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable.  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
florbetapir (18F) 
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: ToC + 7.5 h  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
Vial No. 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
≤ 12,000 MBq at ToC (see outer packaging) 
6. 
OTHER 
 Radioactive material 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 53121, Bonn, Germany 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 47014, Meldola, Italy 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 50100, Zaragoza, Spain 
PETNET Solutions SAS, 91090, Lisses, France  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
SHIELD LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
florbetapir (18F) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of solution for injection contains 1,900 MBq of florbetapir (18F) at date and time of 
calibration (ToC). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Anhydrous ethanol, sodium ascorbate, sodium chloride, water for injections. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 vial 
Volume: {Z} mL  
Activity: {Y} MBq in {Z}mL  
ToC: {DD/MM/YYYY} {hh:mm}{Time Zone} 
Vial No. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intravenous use 
Multidose 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
 Radioactive material 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 53121, Bonn, Germany 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 47014, Meldola, Italy 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 50100, Zaragoza, Spain  
PETNET Solutions SAS, 91090, Lisses, France  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {DD/MM/YYYY} {hh:mm}{Time Zone} 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/805/003 (10 mL) 
EU/1/12/805/004 (15 mL) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
florbetapir (18F) 
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: ToC + 10 h  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
Vial No. 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
≤ 28,500 MBq at ToC (see outer packaging) 
6. 
OTHER 
 Radioactive material 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 53121, Bonn, Germany 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 47014, Meldola, Italy 
Advanced Accelerator Applications, 50100, Zaragoza, Spain 
PETNET Solutions SAS, 91090, Lisses, France  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL solution for injection 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL solution for injection 
florbetapir (18F) 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your nuclear medicine doctor who will supervise the 
procedure. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your nuclear medicine doctor. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
- 
What is in this leaflet:  
1.  What Amyvid is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before Amyvid is used 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How Amyvid will be used 
Possible side effects 
How Amyvid is stored 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Amyvid is and what it is used for  
This medicine is a radiopharmaceutical product for diagnostic use only. 
Amyvid contains the active substance florbetapir (18F). 
Amyvid is given to adults with memory problems so that doctors can perform a type of brain scan, 
called a PET scan. Amyvid, along with other brain function tests, may help your doctor find the reason 
for your memory problems. An Amyvid PET scan can help your doctor determine whether or not you 
may have β-amyloid plaques in your brain. β-amyloid plaques are deposits present in the brains of 
people with Alzheimer’s disease, but may also be present in the brain of people with other dementias.  
You should discuss the results of the test with the doctor that requested the scan. 
The use of Amyvid does involve exposure to small amounts of radioactivity. Your doctor and the 
nuclear medicine doctor have considered that the benefit of this procedure with the 
radiopharmaceutical outweighs the risk of being exposed to radiation.  
2.  What you need to know before Amyvid is used  
Amyvid must not be used 
- 
if you are allergic to florbetapir (18F) or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your nuclear medicine doctor before you are given Amyvid if you: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
have kidney problems 
have liver problems 
are pregnant or think you may be pregnant  
are breast-feeding 
Children and adolescents 
Amyvid is not intended for use in children and adolescents. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Amyvid  
Tell your nuclear medicine doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines since they may interfere with the interpretation of the images obtained from the brain scan. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You must inform the nuclear medicine doctor before you are given Amyvid if there is a possibility you 
might be pregnant, if you have missed your period or if you are breast-feeding. When in doubt, it is 
important to consult your nuclear medicine doctor who will supervise the procedure.  
If you are pregnant 
The nuclear medicine doctor will only give this medicine during pregnancy if a benefit is expected 
which would outweigh the risks.  
If you are breast-feeding 
You must stop breast-feeding for 24 hours after the injection and the maternal milk pumped must be 
discarded. Resuming breast-feeding should be in agreement with the nuclear medicine doctor who will 
supervise the procedure.  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your nuclear medicine doctor for advice before you are given this medicine.  
Driving and using machines  
Amyvid will not affect your ability to drive or to use machines. 
Amyvid contains ethanol and sodium 
This medicine contains 790 mg of alcohol (ethanol) in each 10 mL dose, which is equivalent to 
11.3 mg/kg (administered to an adult with 70 kg). The amount in 10 mL of this medicine is equivalent 
to less than 20 mL beer or 8 mL wine.  
The small amount of alcohol in this medicine will not have any noticeable effects. 
This medicine also contains up to 37 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each dose. 
This is equivalent to 1.85 % of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an 
adult. 
3. 
How Amyvid will be used  
There are strict laws on the use, handling and disposal of radiopharmaceutical products.  
Amyvid will only be used in specially controlled areas. This medicine will only be handled and given 
to you by people who are trained and qualified to use it safely. These persons will take special care for 
the safe use of this medicine and will keep you informed of their actions.  
Dose 
The nuclear medicine doctor supervising the procedure will decide on the quantity of Amyvid to be 
used in your case. It will be the smallest quantity necessary to get the desired information.  
The usual amount recommended for an adult is 370 MBq. Megabecquerel (MBq) is the unit used to 
express radioactivity. 
Administration of Amyvid and conduct of the procedure  
Amyvid is given as an injection into your vein (intravenous injection) followed by a flush of sodium 
chloride solution to ensure full delivery of the dose.  
One injection is usually sufficient to carry out the scan that your doctor needs. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of the procedure  
Your nuclear medicine doctor will inform you about the usual duration of the procedure. A brain scan 
is usually taken about 30 to 50 minutes after the Amyvid injection is given. 
After administration of Amyvid, you should  
Avoid any close contact with young children and pregnant women for the 24 hours following the 
injection. 
The nuclear medicine doctor will inform you if you need to take any special precautions after 
receiving this medicine. Contact your nuclear medicine doctor if you have any questions.  
If you have been given more Amyvid than you should 
An overdose is unlikely because you will only receive a single dose of Amyvid precisely controlled by 
the nuclear medicine doctor supervising the procedure. However, in the case of an overdose, you will 
receive the appropriate treatment. In particular, the nuclear medicine doctor in charge of the procedure 
may provide ways to increase the passing of urine and stools in order to help remove radioactivity 
from your body. 
If you have any further question on the use of Amyvid, please ask your nuclear medicine doctor who 
supervises the procedure. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
headache 
The following side effect of Amyvid is common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
The following side effects of Amyvid are uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
feeling sick, 
altered taste, 
flushing, 
itching, 
rash, bleeding or pain where the injection is given or rash in other places. 
This radiopharmaceutical will deliver low amounts of ionising radiation associated with the least risk 
of cancer and hereditary abnormalities (i.e. genetic diseases). See also section 1.  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects talk to your nuclear medicine doctor. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How Amyvid is stored  
You will not have to store this medicine. This medicine is stored under the responsibility of the 
specialist in appropriate premises. Storage of radiopharmaceuticals will be in accordance with national 
regulation on radioactive materials.  
The following information is intended for the specialist only.  
Amyvid must not be used after the expiry date which is stated on the shield label after EXP. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Amyvid Contains 
- 
The active substance is florbetapir (18F).  
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL: 1 mL of solution for injection contains 1,900 MBq of florbetapir (18F) 
at the date and time of calibration.  
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL: 1 mL of solution for injection contains 800 MBq of florbetapir (18F) at 
the date and time of calibration.  
The other ingredients are anhydrous ethanol, sodium ascorbate, sodium chloride, water for 
injections (see section 2 “Amyvid contains ethanol and sodium”). 
- 
What Amyvid looks like and contents of the pack 
Amyvid is a clear, colourless solution for injection. It is supplied in a 10 mL or 15 mL clear glass vial. 
Pack size 
Amyvid 1,900 MBq/mL: One multidose vial of 10 mL capacity containing 1 to 10 mL of solution, 
corresponding to 1,900 to 19,000 MBq at date and time of calibration. 
One multidose vial of 15 mL capacity containing 1 to 15 mL of solution, corresponding to 1,900 to 
28,500 MBq at date and time of calibration. 
Amyvid 800 MBq/mL: One multidose vial of 10 mL capacity containing 1 to 10 mL of solution, 
corresponding to 800 to 8,000 MBq at date and time of calibration. 
One multidose vial of 15 mL capacity containing 1 to 15 mL of solution, corresponding to 800 to 
12,000 MBq at date and time of calibration. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
For information on the manufacturer, see vial and shield label. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
Belgique/België/Belgien 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Lietuva 
Eli Lilly Lietuva 
Tel. +370 (5) 2649600 
България 
ТП "Ели Лили Недерланд" Б.В. - България 
тел. + 359 2 491 41 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Česká republika 
ELI LILLY ČR, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 234 664 111 
Danmark 
Eli Lilly Danmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 45 26 60 00 
Deutschland 
Lilly Deutschland GmbH 
Tel. + 49-(0) 6172 273 2222 
Eesti 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +372 6 817 280 
Ελλάδα 
ΦΑΡΜΑΣΕΡΒ-ΛΙΛΛΥ Α.Ε.Β.Ε.  
Τηλ: +30 210 629 4600 
España 
Lilly S.A. 
Tel: + 34-91 663 50 00 
France 
Lilly France 
Tél: +33-(0) 1 55 49 34 34 
Hrvatska 
Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2350 999 
Magyarország 
Lilly Hungária Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 328 5100 
Malta 
Charles de Giorgio Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 25600 500 
Nederland 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.  
Tel: + 31-(0) 30 60 25 800 
Norge 
Eli Lilly Norge A.S.  
Tlf: + 47 22 88 18 00 
Österreich 
Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel: + 43-(0) 1 711 780 
Polska 
Eli Lilly Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 440 33 00 
Portugal 
Lilly Portugal Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: + 351-21-4126600 
România 
Eli Lilly România S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 21 4023000 
Ireland 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
Slovenija 
Eli Lilly farmacevtska družba, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 580 00 10 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39- 055 42571 
Slovenská republika 
Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 220 663 111 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Eli Lilly Finland Ab  
Puh/Tel: + 358-(0) 9 85 45 250 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
Phadisco Ltd  
Τηλ: +357 22 715000 
Sverige 
Eli Lilly Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46-(0) 8 7378800 
Latvija 
Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A Pārstāvniecība Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67364000 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
The complete SmPC of Amyvid is provided as a separate document in the medicinal product package, 
with the objective to provide healthcare professionals with other additional scientific and practical 
information about the administration and use of this radiopharmaceutical.  
Please refer to the SmPC {SmPC should be included in the box}. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
