Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules 
(Anagrelide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg 
hard capsules. The RMP details important risks of Anagrelide, how these risks can be minimised, 
and how more information will be obtained about Anagrelide 's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules should be read 
in  the  context  of  all  the  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Anagrelide 
Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules 's RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Anagrelide  Mylan  0.5  mg  and  1  mg  hard  capsules  is  authorised  for  the  reduction  of  elevated 
platelet  counts  in  patients  at  risk  essential  thrombocythaemia  (ET)  who  are  intolerant  to  their 
current therapy or whose elevated platelet counts are not reduced to an acceptable level by their 
current therapy. It contains Anagrelide as the active substance and it is given by oral route as 0.5 
mg and 1 mg hard capsule.  
Further information about the evaluation of Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules ’s 
benefits can be found in Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules ’s EPAR, including in 
its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage link 
to 
EMA  webpage: 
landing 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/anagrelide-mylan   
product’s 
summary 
EPAR 
page 
the 
on 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise 
the Risks  
Important risks of Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules, together with measures to 
minimise such risks Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  (include  PSUR  statement  only  if  product  has 
PSUR  requirements,  as  per  EURD  list),  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important risks of Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules are risks that need special 
risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal 
product  can  be  safely  administered  to/taken  by  patients.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as 
identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is  currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Table 1: Part VI.1- Summary of safety concerns 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks 
•  None  
Important Potential Risks 
•  None 
Missing Information 
•  None  
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules.  
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Anagrelide Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg hard capsules. 
 
 
