Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions 
1 
Scientific conclusions  
As part of the assessment of the Art. 31 referral procedure for sartans with a tetrazole ring, the 
Committee recommended that the conditions for sartans with a tetrazole ring should be reviewed to 
take into account the recommendations from the Art. 5(3) on nitrosamines. On 29 July 2020 the EC 
sent a letter to EMA requesting the assessment of the impact of the outcome of the Article 5(3) 
assessment on nitrosamines adopted on 25 June 2020 on the CHMPs opinion of 31 January 2019 for 
the scientific assessment and review under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC regarding angiotensin-
II-receptor antagonists (sartans) containing a tetrazole group (EMEA/H/A-31/1471). 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation 
Based on the knowledge acquired on the presence of nitrosamines in medicinal products since the 
sartans referral and taking into account the data assessed within the Art. 5(3) review, in particular 
related to the methodology to calculate the limits in case of (poly)contamination and potential root 
causes, the CHMP considered that the outcome of the sartans referral should be amended to take into 
account the outcome of the Art. 5(3) review. Having considered that the sartan case is very well 
studied and the API processes were identified as the main and often only root-cause, the CHMP is of 
the view that there is no specific aspect that would warrant a general exception for sartans with a 
tetrazole ring.  
In the Art. 5(3) review, the CHMP did not support the approach to control nitrosamines based on 
analytical capability (i.e., technical limit applied at active pharmaceutical ingredient level), as this does 
not take into account toxicological data, and limits may be different for different nitrosamines, 
furthermore it could lead to different actual exposures depending on the daily dose of the medicinal 
product. Nitrosamines should also be controlled usually at the level of the finished product, as several 
root causes emerged that are related to finished product manufacturing. The control point for 
nitrosamines should be selected in such a way that it will give assurance of presence of the impurity 
below the acceptable limit in the finished product. 
The CHMP therefore considers that the recommendations adopted in the Art 5(3) review are also 
relevant to sartans with tetrazole ring. 
In view of the above, the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk balance of angiotensin-II-receptor 
antagonists (sartans) containing a tetrazole group (candesartan, irbesartan, losartan, olmesartan, 
valsartan) is favourable subject to changes to the conditions to the Marketing Authorisations as 
described above. 
Grounds for CHMP opinion 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
The CHMP considered the letter from EC to EMA dated 29 July 2020  
The CHMP reviewed the conditions from the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC for angiotensin-II-receptor antagonists (sartans) containing a tetrazole group 
(candesartan, irbesartan, losartan, olmesartan, valsartan) in the frame of the 
recommendations from the review under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 on 
Nitrosamines impurities in human medicinal products 
The CHMP considered that there is no specific aspect that would warrant a general exception 
for sartans with a tetrazole ring, and agreed moving the NDMA and NDEA specifications from 
2 
 
 
 
• 
• 
the active substance to the finished product, with a limit according to ICH M7(R1) principles for 
cohort of concern substances for lifelong exposure. 
In addition, the Art 5(3) recommendations on multiple nitrosamine contaminations, omission of 
testing and the option of skip testing are also applicable. 
In general, the risk assessment for finished products sartans with a tetrazole ring can follow 
the timelines of the call for review for products containing chemically manufactured active 
substances, considering the effort needed to fully elucidate any potential risks and carry out 
testing, e.g. for other nitrosamines. The deadline for providing risk assessment for the active 
substance can however be maintained as two years following initial Commission Decision, as it 
can be expected that MAHs have already progressed fulfilling this condition. 
CHMP opinion 
The CHMP, as a consequence, considers that the benefit-risk balance of angiotensin-II-receptor 
antagonists (sartans) containing a tetrazole group (candesartan, irbesartan, losartan, olmesartan, 
valsartan) remains favourable subject to the amendments to the conditions described above. 
Therefore, the CHMP recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations for 
angiotensin-II-receptor antagonists (sartans) containing a tetrazole group (candesartan, irbesartan, 
losartan, olmesartan, valsartan) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
