15 September 2022 
EMA/896677/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010264/202112 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 December 2018 – 17 December 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol, 
the scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows: 
1) In view of available data on risk of muscle spasm from spontaneous reports in post-marketing 
surveillance, including in some cases a positive de-challenge and re-challenge, and in view of the known 
relation between muscle spasm/cramps and other LABAs, the PRAC considers a causal causality between 
umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol and muscle spasm is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC 
concluded that the product information of medicinal products containing umeclidinium bromide / 
vilanterol should be amended accordingly. 
Update of section 4.8 of the SmPC to add the adverse reaction Muscle spasm under the SOC 
“Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders” is deemed necessary, with the frequency uncommon. 
The Package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
2) In view of available data on risk of eye pain from spontaneous reports in post-marketing surveillance, 
including in some cases a time to onset (TTO) plausible with a drug effect and a positive de-challenge and 
re-challenge, and in view of the known relation between ocular effects and other LAMAs, the PRAC 
considers a causal causality between umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol and eye pain is at least a 
reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of medicinal products containing 
umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol should be amended accordingly. 
Update of section 4.8 of the SmPC to add the adverse reaction Eye pain under the SOC “Eye disorders” is 
deemed necessary, with the frequency rare. The Package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol the CHMP is of the opinion 
that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol is 
unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/896677/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
