(the fallopian tube that connects the ovary to the womb, or the peritoneum, the membrane that lines 
Apealea is a cancer medicine used to treat women with cancer of the ovary or surrounding structures 
the abdomen).  
EMA/791927/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004154 
Apealea contains the active substance paclitaxel.  
What is Apealea and what is it used for? 
responds to platinum-based cancer medicines and has come back after initial treatment.  
Apealea is given along with a platinum-based medicine, carboplatin, to patients whose disease 
Apealea (paclitaxel) 
An overview of Apealea and why it is authorised in the EU 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
For more information about using Apealea, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
should not be interchanged with other medicines containing paclitaxel.  
The active substance in Apealea, paclitaxel, is a cancer medicine that has been used in the EU for 
Apealea is formulated in tiny particles, called micelles, to help it dissolve in the infusion solvent. It 
given by infusion over about 1 hour, once every 3 weeks, for 6 cycles of treatment. Doses may be 
treated with a platinum-based medicine, carboplatin. 
How does Apealea work? 
delayed or reduced by the doctor, or treatment may be stopped, if severe side effects occur; doses 
many years. It belongs to the group of cancer medicines known as the ‘taxanes’. Paclitaxel blocks a 
specialist in the treatment of cancer.  
How is Apealea used? 
pharmacist. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given under the supervision of a 
The dose of Apealea is 250 mg per square metre (calculated based on height and body weight) and is 
Apealea is available as a powder to make up a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. The paclitaxel in 
should also be reduced in patients with moderate or severe reduction in liver function. Patients are also 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
stage of cell division in which the cell’s internal ‘skeleton’ is dismantled to allow the cell to divide. By 
keeping this structure intact the cells cannot divide and they eventually die.  
What benefits of Apealea have been shown in studies? 
study involving further treatment of 789 women whose ovarian, fallopian tube or peritoneal cancer had 
of time that patients lived without their disease coming back yet again was 10.3 months with Apealea, 
feet), joint and muscle pain, and reactions such as redness, soreness and inflammation of the veins at 
come back. Patients also received a platinum-based cancer medicine, carboplatin. The average length 
neutropenia (low numbers of white blood cells called neutrophils), stomach and gut disorders such as 
Supportive data from the study showed that the average time that patients lived after treatment was 
Apealea must not be used in patients who are breast feeding or those who already have low levels of 
25.7 months among those given Apealea and 24.8 months for those given conventional paclitaxel. 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting, peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage in hands and 
Apealea has been shown to be as effective as a conventional formulation of paclitaxel in one main 
and 10.1 months with conventional paclitaxel.  
Why is Apealea authorised in the EU? 
What are the risks associated with Apealea? 
neutrophils in the blood. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
the site of infusion. For the full list of side effects of Apealea, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Apealea (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Apealea? 
Apealea received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 November 2018. 
Apealea are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Other information about Apealea 
and effective use of Apealea have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
The European Medicines Agency considered that Apealea was as effective as conventional paclitaxel, 
be associated with more infusion site reactions, and studies suggested stronger effects on blood cells 
and could be a valuable alternative in combination with carboplatin. While the new formulation might 
those of other paclitaxel medicines. The Agency therefore decided that Apealea’s benefits are greater 
and the gut, these were considered manageable and the overall benefits and risks are consistent with 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Apealea are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
Further information on Apealea can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/apealea.   
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Apealea (paclitaxel)  
EMA/791927/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
