Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): paclitaxel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002264/201812 
25 July 2019 
EMA/637582/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Period covered by the PSUR: 27/12/2015 To: 27/12/2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for paclitaxel, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows: 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for paclitaxel the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing paclitaxel is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
Neuropathy is a known ADR with the use of paclitaxel. Review of the post-marketing data revealed that 
neuropathy can persist after discontinuation of paclitaxel treatment. Data from published literature and 
administrative claims databases confirmed the persistence of neuropathy with paclitaxel exposure beyond 
12 months. Based on the data provided, it is recommended to update the current information on 
neuropathy in the SmPC, by adding information concerning persistent neuropathy after paclitaxel 
discontinuation.  
Based on a cumulative review of data from all the MAHs, the causal role of paclitaxel for palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia syndrome is at least a reasonable possibility. From the cases of palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia syndrome and symptoms received by the MAHs, there were several cases with a 
positive dechallenge and with a positive rechallenge. In addition, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia 
syndrome associated with paclitaxel treatment has been reported in clinical trials and in the published 
literature. Therefore, the SmPC of paclitaxel should be updated with the inclusion of palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia syndrome as an ADR in section 4.8 under SOC Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders. A frequency of ‘not known (cannot be estimated from available data)’ is considered 
appropriate. The PL should be updated accordingly. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/637582/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
