25 July 2018 
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Apealea, Paclitaxel (micellar) 
Treatment of ovarian cancer 
EU/3/06/422 (EMA/OD/061/06) 
Sponsor: Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Note 
deleted. 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of commercially confidential nature 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 9 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage .......................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 7 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Sweden 
L01CD01 
EU/3/06/422 
Vallongatan 1 
Intravenous use 
9 November 2006 
SE 753 17 Uppsala 
18 December 2006 
Paclitaxel (micellar) 
Paclitaxel (micellar) 
Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB 
Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB 
Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB  
Treatment of ovarian cancer 
Powder for solution for infusion 
B. Van der Schueren, E. Balkowiec Iskra 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
medicines/European public assessment reports. 
peritoneal cancer and fallopian tube cancer. 
20 September 2018 
F. Naumann-Winter 
EMA/H/C/0004154 
25 February 2016 
17 February 2016 
19-21 June 2018  
5 February 2016 
19 July 2018 
Apealea 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
the treatment of adult patients with first relapse of 
Further information on Apealea can be found in the 
platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer, primary 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
Following communication of the outcome of the discussion, the sponsor formally requested the 
CHMP opinion date 
COMP Co-ordinator 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
questions  
Oral explanation  
Apealea in combination with carboplatin is indicated for 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
withdrawal of the orphan designation on 24 July 2018 prior to final opinion. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2006 was 
• 
• 
• 
Condition 
application is made 
based on the following grounds: 
benefit to those affected by the condition. 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
approximately 2.9 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is life threatening in particular due to poor long term survival; 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that paclitaxel (micellar) may be of significant 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
stable and are characterised by mutations of KRAS, BRAF, ERBB2, PTEN, PIK3CA and ARID1A.  
Type 2 tumours are high-grade, aggressive tumours comprising high-grade serous, high-grade 
endometrioid, malignant mixed mesodermal tumours and undifferentiated tumours, frequently 
cancer” designation. This is not specifically addressed in the old 2006 summary report for the 
peritoneal tumours originate in the fimbria of the fallopian tube (Lederman et al 2013, Newly 
ovarian tumours are epithelial and WHO classification of ovarian tumours recognizes the following 
Type 1 cancers tend to be low-grade and indolent tumours and include low-grade serous, 
disease has emerged which divides epithelial tumours into type 1 and type 2 ovarian carcinomas.  
endometrioid, mucinous, clear-cell and malignant Brenner tumours; they are relatively genetically 
histotypes: serous, mucinous, endometrioid, clear cell, Brenner (transitional cell), mixed epithelial, 
peritoneal cancer and Fallopian tube cancer in combination with carboplatin as second- or third-line 
designation step. However it is important to note that the majority of high-grade serous ovarian and 
undifferentiated, and unclassified. In the last few years a dualistic model for the pathogenesis of this 
mutations.  
therapy”.  
The issue therefore arises as to whether primary peritoneal and faloppian are spanned by the “ovarian 
associated with TP53 mutations, and BRCA1/2 mutation due to a combination of germline and somatic 
The orphan condition affects predominantly postmenopausal women. About 90% of primary malignant 
The proposed indication is: “Apealea is indicated for the treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer, primary 
diagnosed and relapsed epithelial ovarian carcinoma: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, 
treatment and follow-up, Annals of Oncology 24 (S6): vi24–vi32, 2013)”. This has been the basis that 
the inclusion of fallopian and primary peritoneal cancer has been explicitly included in other “ovarian 
cancer” orphan procedure, on the basis of common tissue origin, molecular pathology, clinical 
characteristics and natural history leading to the same staging and treatment.  
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
Therefore the propsoed therapeutic indication “Apealea is indicated for the treatment of epithelial 
ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer and Fallopian tube cancer in combination with carboplatin as 
second- or third-line therapy” may be eventually considered to fall within the scope of the designated 
orphan indication “treatment of ovarian cancer”. 
between the cycles. The treatment period started at day of first dose and ended 22 days after the sixth 
evaluated according to RECIST 1.0 by blinded central review, or death from any cause. The study met 
Primary endpoint was PFS, defined as the time from randomisation to progression, based on CT scans 
its primary endpoint for non-inferiority of efficacy in terms of PFS based on central review of CT scans 
dose. During the follow-up period, which started on cycle 6 day 23, the patients were followed on a 
justified. Study OAS-07OVA was an open-label, parallel group, randomised, comparator-controlled, 
evaluated according to RECIST.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
relapsing > 6 months after end of first or second line treatment. 
monthly basis with start at six months after first dose until progression or leaving the study. 
non-inferiority, Phase III study in patients with ovarian fallopian or primary peritoneal cancer, 
Conditional to a positive CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition will be considered 
Figure 1.  Adopted from the sponsor’s application. Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS based on CT scans 
Eligible subjects were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either Apealea 250 mg/m2 plus 
carboplatin 5-6 AUC or Taxol 175 mg/m2 plus carboplatin 5-6 AUC during 6 cycles with 3 weeks 
according to RECIST – ITT population  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
loss, ascites and vaginal bleeding, and life-threatening with approximately half of the patients 
It can be acknowledged that the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to pain, weight 
The applicant refers to EUCAN data citing annual mortality rates of approximately 9 per 1000 for 2012. 
surviving less than five years.  
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor states that the prevalence is “not expected to increase the estimates to more than 3 
patients per 10,000”. This is based on a 5 year partial prevalence for ovarian cancer, calculated in two 
peritoneal. 
There are however some limitations to be further explored: 
Table 1.   (Adopted from the sponsor’s maintenance report, second methodology) 
ways a) directly from EUCAN 2012 data (2.08 per 10,000), and b) from incidence by assuming a 38% 
5 year survival (2.82 per 10,000). The sponsor explicitly cannot be specific about fallopian and primary 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
late relapses and it is not justified why these patients are not considered as affected by the 
ovary, clear cell adenocarcinoma of ovary, adenocarcinoma with variants of fallopian tube) 
Cancer Inst. 2017 Oct 1;109(10) which argues that “with most studies capturing exposure 
Nov 29, cited a 5.9 per 10,000 including ovarian and fallopian cancer.  
women, which gives approximately 9 in 10,000 people altogether.  
will be needed. 
condition. 
information from 10 or more years ago, evaluation of how changing patterns of exposures, such as 
new oral contraceptive formulations and increased intrauterine device use, might influence ovarian 
cancer risk and survival is difficult”. The use of updated data is relevant in that regard. A newer 
In RARECARE a combined complete prevalence for subsets of epithelial rare tumours of ovary and 
fallopian tube (which includes adenocarcinoma with variants of ovary, mucinous adenocarcinoma of 
There is substantial uncertainty regarding the epidemiology of the condition in the literature (J Natl 
challenges the statutory threshold and cites a figure of 5.32 per 10,000. The Rarecare website on 
detection and/or treatment advancements, are not taken into consideration. Updated calculations 
In NORDCAN the number of people living with the diagnosis of ovarian cancer is 17.1 per 10,000 
There is no account of the alleged 38% of patients that are alive after 5 years. Literature reports 
The data used go up to 2012. As such, any recent changes in survival, because of diagnostic earlier 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
epidemiological report that was published from Rarecare in November 2017 could also have been 
commented on. (Rare ovarian tumours: Epidemiology, treatment challenges in and outside a 
network setting,Ray-Coquard et al, EJSO November 2017). 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, who have been treated with two or more prior lines of 
platinum-sensitive relapsed BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high grade serous epithelial 
relapsed or progressive, BRCA mutated (germline and/or somatic), high-grade epithelial ovarian, 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete response or 
irinotecan, mephalan, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, paclitaxel, treosulphan, pazopanib, trabectedin, 
peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) to platinum based chemotherapy.  
Existing methods 
olaparib, niraparib and rucaparib. 
those affected by the condition. 
bevacizumab, carboplatin, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, docetaxel, doxorubicin, epirubicin, 5FU, 
Several medicinal products are authorised in the EU for the treatment of ovarian cancer such as 
•  Olaparib is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
•  Rucaparib is indicated as monotherapy treatment of adult patients with platinum sensitive, 
•  Niraparib is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
platinum sensitive relapsed high grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary 
partial response) to platinum-based chemotherapy. 
platinum based chemotherapy, and who are unable to tolerate further platinum based 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
high probability to respond again to platinum compounds, but salvage chemotherapy in platinum 
standard of care. Adjuvant carboplatin single-agent chemotherapy is considered for patients with 
cytoreduction in relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer remains controversial and is not regarded as 
shown to be associated with a significantly increased survival. However, the value of surgical 
2013, Annals of Oncology 24 (S6): vi24–vi32, 2013). 
refractory patients’ results in low response rates. 
intermediate and high-risk stage I disease. 
carcinoma: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up Lederman et al 
stage primary treatment the role of surgery is also important for staging, while for advanced disease 
European Guidelines have been published by ESMO (Newly diagnosed and relapsed epithelial ovarian 
chemotherapy consists of a combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin every 3 weeks. With regards to 
Chemotherapy is recommended for all patients with FIGO stage II–IV disease post-surgery. Standard 
As per these guidelines, the role of surgery is important for both early and advanced disease. In early 
treatment of recurrent disease, patients experiencing a durable response to platinum induction have a 
complete cytoreduction of all macroscopically visible disease, after a maximal surgical effort, has been 
chemotherapy 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
Significant benefit 
Significant benefit is argued mainly on the basis of improved safety versus the authorised paclitaxel. 
Several arguments are put forward in that regard: 
population affected, should be further elaborated. 
a)  Improved hypersensitivity reactions based on Study OAS-07OVA  
carboplatin in the Apealea group than in the Paclitaxel (Taxol) group (p=0.0296). The sponsor however 
that developed during or after the infusion of carboplatin. Additionally, the incidence of hypersensitivity 
With regards to the first point, it is reported that there was no difference in incidence of 
b)  No need for routine premedication to avoid frequent or severe hypersensitivity reactions 
to wear off. This argument is in effect a major contribution to patient care argument, which is not 
hypersensitivity reactions overall. In the study, the Investigator was given an opportunity to assess 
events during carboplatin could have been influenced by a carry-over of the effects of premedication 
is difficult to accept, and the gravity and outcomes of the adverse reactions, as well as the size of the 
prescribed to control the risks with Taxol. Therefore the argument for improved hypersensitivity profile 
qualified or documented by any patient reported outcomes or other means. This would be necessary in 
The sponsor notes freedom from the need to provide premedication potentially shortens patient visits 
to the hospital, as no time needs to be allowed for the effect of the pre-medications or for their effect 
whether the hypersensitivity reactions were caused by paclitaxel (Apealea or Paclitaxel (Taxol)) or by 
the carboplatin. It is reported that more patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions attributed to 
notes that interpretation of the data should be made with caution as the 30 minutes between the 
infusions of paclitaxel and carboplatin could have made it difficult to assess the relation of reactions 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
reduce alopecia (a recognised adverse reaction to paclitaxel) such as “cold caps” become feasible. 
Shorter infusion times are also a benefit to the hospital, which can accommodate more patients 
reconstituted Apealea solution. The product information warns that compatibility with di-(2-ethylhexyl) 
phthalate (DEHP) containing administration sets has not been demonstrated. The use of administration 
their hospital or infusion centre. It is argued that with a shorter infusion time, some measures that can 
sets with an in-line filter with a microporous membrane of 5 to 15 micrometres is recommended.  The 
freedom to use non-specialised infusion sets may be of benefit to the hospital or infusion centre. As in 
information warns that to minimise patient exposure to DEHP, which may be leached from plasticised 
formulations such as Taxol is a benefit for the patient, reducing the time that they need to spend at 
The sponsor recommends use of an ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA) bag for the administration of the 
is not qualified or documented by any patient reported outcomes or other means. This would be 
PVC infusion bags, sets, or other medical instruments. It is considered by the applicant that the 
applicant goes on to argue that in the case of the classical paclitaxel formulation, the product 
The reduction of the duration of the infusion with Apealea compared with classical paclitaxel 
necessary in order to appreciate the size of any effect and prescribe significant benefit. 
needing infusions. Again the argument is in effect a major contribution to patient care argument, which 
order to appreciate the size of any effect. 
d)  No need for a special infusion set 
c)  Shorter infusion times 
the above cases, clinical data are missing to on the one hand document the serious problems with the 
available formulations as well as data to document the expected improvements. 
In the absence of clinical data to justify any of the claims put forwards, the significant benefit cannot 
be considered met. Furthermore, the discussion versus other comparators authorised for the targeted 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
indication is also pending. A previous protocol assistance recommendation on SB also informed the 
sponsor that a clinically relevant difference in hypersensitivity reactions would be required (and the 
product otherwise equivalent to authorised paclitaxel) and that merely reducing premedication/infusion 
time would not be sufficient to maintain orphan status. 
point prevalence estimate at the time of the orphan maintenance procedure taking into consideration 
COMP has noted that the data submitted do not support improvement in hypersensitivity reactions in 
clinical data to justify serious and documented difficulties arising from the claimed issues and clinical 
Prevalence 
data with the product to confirm that they would be addressed, also in the setting of a combination 
requirements and technical aspects of the proposed paclitaxel formulation.  The committee expects 
Significant benefit 
the pivotal study presented.  
should be presented and discussed.    
4.  COMP list of issues 
The applicant discusses perceived issues regarding infusion of paclitaxel, including premedication 
ongoing demographic change. Recent time trends in crude incidence or improvements of survival 
Significant benefit is argued on the basis of improved safety versus the authorised paclitaxel. The 
The applicant is invited to: a) justify the epidemiological index used taking into consideration the 
duration of the condition b) comment on the available European databases and c) provide a crude 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
therapy with carboplatin. 
considered met.  
In the absence of clinical data to justify any of the claims put forwards, significant benefit may not be 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/COMP/138404/2016  
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
