European Medicines Agency 
London, 12 January 2010 
Doc.Ref. : EMEA/CHMP/662154/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Apidra 
International Nonproprietary Name:Insulin glulisine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/557/X/0023 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
Introduction 
The applicant Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH submitted on 8 January 2009 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Apidra under Annex II, 
point 2 (v) to Commission  Regulation  (EC) No  1085/2003.  
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH is the Marketing Authorisation Holder for Apidra which was 
authorised on 27 September 2004 through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and 
point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. Apidra is currently approved for subcutaneous use, 
and the extension is sought for the addition of the intravenous use (applicable to the vial presentation). 
Insulin glusilin (Apidra) displays a time-concentration and time-action profile with a more rapid onset, 
earlier peak effect in lowering blood glucose levels, and a shorter duration of action than the short-
acting insulin preparation of regular insulin. However, when administered intravenously, insulin 
glusiline and regular insulin show equipotent glucose lowering activity, and thus, Apidra may provide 
an alternative approach for treating hyperglycaemia in a hospital setting. 
The intravenous injection of Apidra should be performed after dilution of insulin glusiline 100 
Units/ml in an infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Apidra is supplied as a 100 Units/ml clear, colourless solution in the following containers: vial, 
cartridge, pre-filled pen OptiSet, pre-filled pen SoloStar and cartridge for OptiClick. 
The present application for a new administration route concerns only the vial presentation.  
All aspects of the manufacture, formulation, release testing and immediate packaging are identical to 
that already approved for the original marketing authorisation. Consequently no new quality data have 
been submitted to support this except compatibility and stability data to support the choice of infusion 
fluid in which Apidra is to be diluted for this new route of administration and the in-use stability of 
diluted Apidra during i.v. infusion. 
Reference is made to the Module 3 data submitted and already assessed for the initial application. 
Active Substance 
The active substance used in this formulation is identical with the one in the manufacture of the 
approved Apidra, thus no new information or assessment is required. 
Medicinal Product 
The applicant has confirmed that the medicinal product intended to be marketed is identical in all 
respects as that already approved. No changes have been made to the manufacturing process and the 
immediate container and consequently only the new information regarding pharmaceutical 
development and stability has been assessed as discussed below: 
2/11 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Pharmaceutical Development 
Microbiological Attributes 
The applicant has not presented any additional studies of the microbiological attributes of Apidra for 
this new route of administration. Given that the formulation is designed for the current subcutaneous 
route for a multidose vial and has been shown to be adequate for this purpose, it is reasonable to rely 
on the preservatives present and the established procedures for hospital aseptic transfer from the vial 
to the infusion bag without any further data.  
Compatibility with Diluent 
Given that the intravenous product is intended to be used diluted in a pre-prepared intravenous 
infusion bag, the key aspect of this application is the demonstration that an appropriate choice of 
recommended infusion fluid has been made and that compatibility of Apidra with potential infusion 
fluids has been appropriately demonstrated.  
The applicant has studied compatibility of diluted Apidra with three potential infusion fluids. Stability 
studies have confirmed that Apidra is not compatible with Glucose 5% solution or Ringer’s solution 
due to the detection of visible and subvisible particles and these infusions fluids were excluded.  
The applicant considered dilution practices for infusions across all Member States and confirmed 
compatibility with 40 mM potassium chloride solution. 
  Stability of the Product 
The applicant has provided a stability report which contains a stability study covering dilution of the 
insulin product with a sterile solution for infusion, under aseptic conditions within a hospital setting. 
The aim was to create the conditions with respect to microbiological attributes as for any sterile 
infusion preparation process. Pre-defined in-use tests were performed based on accepted common 
practice for i.v. administration including the concentration of insulin diluent used, duration of infusion 
and administration device. The infusion bags and tubing used in these studies were justified as 
representative. 
The applicant has provided data from three batches of Apidra solution for injection prepared from 
three different drug substance batches. The requested concentration of 1 U/ml was prepared in 250 ml 
or 1000 ml plastic containers with sterile 0.9% sodium chloride solution.  
The stability study was performed up to 48 hours at room temperature according to a pre-defined 
protocol. The Apidra containing solutions were tested for appearance, pH, content, impurities and 
particulate matter. Likewise, testing was performed on 1000 ml bags connected with administration 
sets with representative tubing and fitted with needles. Stability in this administration set up was 
studies for up to 8 hours with continuous infusion.  
In conclusion additional stability data, including multiple lots, have been provided which justify the 
proposed in-use shelf life. 
3. 
Clinical aspects 
3.1 
Introduction 
The Apidra phase I programme included two PK/PD studies evaluating intravenous administration in 
healthy male volunteers (Table 1). No new studies were conducted to support this application. 
3/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Summary of intravenous PK/PD studies 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
3.2 
Pharmacokinetics 
Study 1004 
Intravenous and subcutaneous doses of 0.1 U/kg Apidra each were administered in a randomised, 
open-label, four-way cross over study in 16 healthy male subjects using a euglycemic clamp 
technique.  The highest systemic glulisine exposure was reached after intravenous bolus 
administration.  The Cmax after intravenous bolus administration was approximately 40 times that 
after any of the subcutaneous injections (Table 2). 
Table 2 
Summary of PK results - Study 1004 
4/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After intravenous administration, Apidra demonstrated a faster onset and shorter duration of action, as 
well as a greater peak response (GIRmax) with a smaller total glucose disposal (AUC (0-clamp end)) 
as compared with subcutaneous administration (Table 3).  
Table 3 
Summary of PD results - Study 1004 
Study 1016 
The glucodynamic efficacy (potency) of Apidra versus regular human insulin using a euglycemic 
clamp technique was assessed in a single centre, randomised, open-label, two-way cross over study in 
16 healthy male subjects.  Subjects received an intravenous infusion of Apidra or regular human 
insulin with saline diluent at a rate of 0.8m U/kg/min for two hours.  The glucodynamic efficacy 
(potency) of Apidra and regular human insulin was assessed by comparing the glucodynamic efficacy 
under steady state condition. 
Infusion of the same dose of Apidra or regular human insulin produced equivalent glucose disposal at 
steady state as displayed by equivalent glucose infusion rates (GIRSS) and equivalent glucose 
utilisation (AUCSS).  Also, the total glucose disposal [AUC(0-clamp end)] was equivalent after either 
insulin (Table 4).  Apidra and regular human insulin showed equivalent potency on a molar basis (at 
the same dose) as attested by superimposable glucose infusion rate time profiles, leading to equivalent 
glucose disposal under steady state conditions (Figure 1). 
Table 4 
Summary of PD results - Study 1016 
5/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Steady state pharmacodynamics of 0.8 mIU/kg/min glulisine and regular human 
insulin - Study 1016 
The comparative bioanalytical quantification of insulin glulisine and human insulin posed an 
analytical challenge as different RIAs had to be applied. Cross-reactivity and matrix effects in serum 
samples from clinical studies are potential limiting factors for any comparison of analytes determined 
with different RIAs, and so, quantitative comparisons of insulin glulisine and human insulin 
concentrations have to be viewed with caution. 
The AUCSS values of insulin glulisine were measured higher by about 30% than that of regular 
human insulin.  The insulin concentration at steady state (CSS) and the total systemic exposure 
(AUC(0-clamp end)) of insulin glulisine were also measured higher, both by about 21% compared to 
regular human insulin (Table 5). 
Table 5 
Summary of PK results - Study 1016 
The inter-individual variability of insulin concentrations at steady state (90, 105 and 120 min) was 
about twice as high for regular human insulin than for insulin glulisine with coefficients of variation of 
13%, 9%, and 19% for insulin glulisine and 40%, 19% and 17% for regular human insulin. 
The mean total insulin clearance (CLtot) was similar for insulin glulisine and regular human insulin 
with 915 mL/min and 1113 mL/min, indicating similar elimination rates for insulin glulisine and 
regular human insulin.  As a result from the higher measured exposure the total insulin glulisine 
clearance (CLtot) is somewhat lower.  The volume of distribution (VSS) for both insulin glulisine (13 
L) and regular human insulin (22 L) approximate the volume of the extra cellular fluid. 
6/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
These data have already been assessed with the initial application.  In the current SPC, PD and PK 
data for the intravenous route are already described.  “The glucose-lowering activities of insulin 
glulisine and regular human insulin are equipotent when administered by intravenous route. One unit 
of insulin glulisine has the same glucose-lowering activity as one unit of regular human insulin.”  “The 
distribution and elimination of insulin glulisine and regular human insulin after intravenous 
administration is similar with volumes of distribution of 13 l and 22 l and half-lives of 13 and 18 
minutes, respectively.” 
Overall, these data support the effective use of Apidra via the intravenous route. 
3.3 
Clinical efficacy 
No efficacy data have been submitted.  This is acceptable since the pharmacodynamic study showed 
no difference in the activity of insulin glulisine compared to human insulin when given intravenously. 
Of note, the intravenous route was not tested in diabetes patients.  However, pharmacodynamic studies 
showed similar PD profile in healthy volunteers and in diabetes patients when using the subcutaneous 
route.  Pharmacodynamic and clinical data using the subcutaneous route support the equipotency of 
insulin glulisine and regular human insulin.  Therefore, it is considered acceptable to bridge with the 
subcutaneous data and to extrapolate the equipotency of insulin glulisine and regular human insulin to 
diabetes patients. 
3.4 
Clinical safety 
Clinical trials 
In study 1004, 9 adverse events were reported in 6 subjects.  None were considered to be related to the 
study drug. No serious adverse events were reported.  The most frequently reported adverse event was 
headache (8 events were reported by 5 subjects), a side-effect frequently observed in clamp studies 
and most probably procedure-related (not drug related). 
Observed decreases in haemoglobin concentrations (and correspondingly hematocrit and erythrocyte 
counts) were due to the significant blood loss during the study.  No clinically relevant changes in 
clinical variables were observed. 
Local tolerance was regarded to be good. No reactions were observed apart from a slight burning 
sensation that lasted only during injection and was reported in a total of 2 cases. 
In study 1016, one case of headache of moderate intensity 6 days after administration of insulin 
glulisine was reported and assessed not related to the study medication by the investigator. 
Observed decreases in haemoglobin concentrations (and correspondingly hematocrit and erythrocyte 
counts) were due to the blood sampling during the study.  No evidence of study medication related 
changes in the repolarisation patterns was seen in any of the subject’s ECG during the study.  No 
clinically relevant changes in clinical variables were observed. 
Post-marketing experience 
A cumulative search of the sanofi-aventis Pharmacovigilance database through 12 December 2008 
was conducted in order to identify all spontaneous reports of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) 
associated with IV administration of insulin glulisine. 
This database search identified a total of two cases, both non-serious, one medically confirmed and 
one reported by a consumer.  The consumer report (200711380GDDC), although reported as IV route 
7/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of administration, the insulin glulisine dose was injected using an insulin delivery device (Autopen) 
which is used for subcutaneous (SC) administration.  The reported event was “injection site 
irritation”, which seems consistent with SC administration. 
The medically confirmed report (200712646FR) involved a female patient, age unknown, who 
received IV insulin glulisine in error with no adverse reaction observed.  The hospital pharmacist used 
to supply the hospital with a rapid acting insulin that can be used IV.  When the rapid acting insulin 
was changed to insulin glulisine, the pharmacist did not realise insulin glulisine was authorised only 
for subcutaneous route. 
3.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The applicant submitted version 2.2 of the Detailed Description of the Pharmacovigilance System, 
dated 09 October 2008. Minor clarifications were requested on its content, therefore version 2.4 dated 
31 July 2009 was submitted as part of the responses to the request for supplementary information. 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements and provides adequate evidence that the MAH has the services of a qualified 
person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of any 
adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted version 1.2 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP), dated 20 January 2009. In 
this version, the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis was considered exclusively as a result of medication 
error. While it is acknowledged by the CHMP that medication errors may be a cause of 
hyperglycaemia leading to diabetic ketoacidosis, it is also possible for the condition to occur as a 
result of increased insulin requirements due to the development of anti-insulin antibodies. 
Therefore,the MAH was requested to amend the RMP to reflect the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in 
such context. Version 1.3 dated 8 July 2009 was submitted and considered as satisfactory. 
8/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 Summary of the risk management plan 
9/11 
 
 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
As a consequence of the approval of the new route of administration, the PSUR cycle for Apidra 
should be re-started as follows: 
  Six-monthly PSURs until two full years of experience with the intravenous route in the EU 
has been gained 
  Yearly PSUrs for the following two years 
  Thereafter submission at 3-yearly intervals 
3.6 
Changes to the Product Information 
Changes were introduced to sections 4.2, 4.4, 5.1, 5.2, 6.2, 6.3 and 6.6 of the SPC for the vial 
presentation, to reflect the new administration route. The labelling and package leaflet were updated 
accordingly. 
As for the remaining presentations (cartridge and pre-filled pens), information on the intravenous use 
was inserted in section 5.2 to complete the pharmacokinetic profile of Apidra. 
Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line with the current EMEA/QRD template and SPC 
guideline, which were reviewed by QRD and accepted by the CHMP. 
4. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
As all aspects of manufacture, formulation, release testing and immediate packaging of Apidra are 
identical to that already approved for the original marketing authorisation application, only 
compatibility and stability data was submitted to support the choice of infusion fluid. The product was 
shown to be incompatible with Glucose 5% solution but compatible with 40 mM potassium chloride 
solution. Stability data supports the proposed in-use shelf life. 
Efficacy 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data were already submitted with the initial application and 
do support the use of the intravenous use route. Indeed, this route may be necessary in the hospital 
setting for the control of blood glucose levels in acute conditions e.g. during ketoacidosis, acute 
illnesses or during intra and post operative periods. 
10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported both in clinical trials and post-marketing 
setting are appropriately reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics. While limited data is 
available for the intravenous route of administration, no specific safety concern is foreseen. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.4 adequately addressed the risks. 
As a consequence of the approval of the new route of administration, the PSUR cycle for Apidra 
should be re-started.   
User consultation was recently performed for Apidra, for a type II variation (EMEA/H/C/201/II/19) 
which was approved on 20 June 2008. As no significant changes are introduced to the package leaflet 
as a consequence of this extension application, no user testing was conducted, which was considered 
acceptable by the CHMP. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in version 
1.3 of the RMP. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality and safety, the CHMP considered by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of the intravenous administration of Apidra in the treatment of adults, adolescents 
and children, 6 years or older with diabetes mellitus, where treatment with insulin is required, was 
favourable (for the vial presentation) and therefore recommended the modification of the marketing 
authorisation. 
11/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
