European Medicines Agency 
London, 20 June 2008 
EMEA/378467/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
APIDRA 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
insulin glulisine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/557/II/0017 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Insulin  glulisine  (Apidra,  3B  Lys-29B  Glu  –human  insulin)  is  a  recombinant  rapid-acting  insulin 
analog produced by recombinant DNA technology in Escherichia coli (E. coli). It differs from human 
insulin  by  two  amino-acid  substitution  on  the  B  chain  of  the  protein  (replacement  of  asparagine  in 
position B3 by lysine and lysine in position B29 by glutamic acid). Thus, insulin glulisine is a close 
structural relative to human insulin. 
Apidra  was  authorised  by  the  centralised  procedure  (EU/1/04/285)  in  27  September  2004  for  the 
treatment of adult patients with diabetes mellitus. 
In this Type II variation the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) applied to add a new indication 
to the Apidra SPC. The proposed therapeutic indication was for the use of Apidra in: “adolescents and 
children  of  4  years  or  above  with  diabetes  mellitus,  where  treatment  with  insulin  is  required”.  
The  MAH  proposed  to  make  changes  to  sections  4.1,  4.2  and  5.1  of  the  SPC  to  reflect  the  new 
indication. 
In support of the indication results of two clinical trials have been submitted (Study HMR1964D/3001 
and HMR1964A/1017). 
2 
Clinical aspects 
2.1 Clinical efficacy 
The clinical documentation consists of two clinical studies: 
Study HMR1964D/3001 that investigated the efficacy and safety of insulin glulisine compared with 
insulin lispro in children and adolescents with type I diabetes mellitus: a 26-week, multicentre, open, 
parallel-group clinical trial. 
Study  HMR1964A/1017  that  studied  the  pharmacokinetics  and  safety  of  0.15  IU/kg  HMR1964 
(insulin  glulisine)  and  regular  human  insulin  injected  subcutaneously  as  a  single  dose  in  paediatric 
subjects with type 1 diabetes in a single-centre, double-blind, randomised, two-way crossover study. 
2.1.1 Study HMR1964D/3001 
This  study  was  a  multicentre,  multinational,  open,  parallel-group,  controlled,  1:1  randomised  study 
with a run-in phase of 4 weeks, and a treatment phase of 26 weeks with a total of 572 male and female 
patients  with  type  1  diabetes  (aged  4  to  17  years),  carried  out  between  12  April  2005  and  03 
November 2006. 
The  MAH  stated  that  “According  to  Article  8.3  (ib)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  the 
applicant confirms that clinical trials carried out outside the European Union met ethical requirements 
of the Declaration of Helsinki and good clinical practice, applicable national laws and regulations and 
the ethical principles of Directive 2001/20/EC.” 
2.1.1.1 Study design 
Study HMR1964D/3001 was a multicentre, multinational, open-label, controlled, centrally randomised 
(1:1),  stratified,  parallel-group  study  in  children  and  adolescents  with  type  1  diabetes  mellitus  aged 
between  4  and  17  years.  The  study  consisted,  after  a  screening  period  of  about  1  week,  of  a  run-in 
phase of 4 weeks followed by a 26-week treatment phase, and by a 24-hour follow-up period. 
2
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study design 
Subjects  were  stratified  within  each  centre  according  to  whether  they  were  taking  NPH  or  insulin 
glargine  as  basal  insulin  at  the  time  of  randomisation.  During  the  study,  insulin  glulisine  or  insulin 
lispro  was  given  at  least  twice  daily  within  15  minutes  prior  to  a  meal  in  combination  with  NPH 
insulin administered twice daily or insulin glargine administered once daily in the evening. Total study 
duration was approximately 31 weeks. Male and female patients aged 4-17 years with established type 
1  diabetes  mellitus  with  an  onset  of  at  least  one  year  prior  to  screening,  an  uninterrupted  insulin 
therapy for at least one year on a stable insulin regimen consisting of either NPH or insulin glargine as 
the  basal  insulin,  willing  to  have  multiple  daily  injections  of  insulin,  with  a  glycated  haemoglobin 
(HbA1c)  value  in  the  range  of  ≥  6.0  and  ≤11.0%,  able  and  willing  to  perform  blood  glucose  (BG) 
monitoring, were eligible to participate in the study.  
A total of 646 subjects were screened, 572 randomised with 276 subjects randomised into the glulisine 
group and 295 randomised into the lispro group. Of these, a total of 265 subjects completed the study 
with  glulisine  and  287  subjects  completed  with  lispro.  One  subject  randomised  in  the  insulin  lispro 
group  was treated by error in the insulin glulisine group; he was therefore considered in the insulin 
glulisine group for all analyses and excluded from the PP population. Thus, 277 subjects were treated 
in the insulin glulisine group and 295 in the insulin lispro group. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  insulin  glulisine  compared  to  insulin 
lispro in the change in total glycated haemoglobin (GHb) from baseline to endpoint (week 26 or last 
type  1  diabetes  mellitus.  
in  children  and  adolescents  with 
observation  on 
treatment) 
Secondary  objectives  were  to  compare  insulin  glulisine  with  insulin  lispro  in  terms  of  secondary 
efficacy parameters (change in GHb at week 12 and week 26, self-monitored blood glucose [SMBG] 
parameters, symptomatic hypoglycaemia and insulin doses) and safety (adverse events [AEs], serious 
symptomatic  hypoglycaemia,  clinical  chemistry  and  haematology,  as  well  as  insulin  antibodies),  in 
children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
Overall, the mean age of subjects was 12.5 years. Approximately 7 % of subjects were <8 years (1.6% 
<6 years), 26% were between 8 and 12 years old, and 67% were above 12 years. Overall, the mean 
BMI was 20.6 kg/m². 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject Demographics 
Treatments 
Insulin  glulisine  (3mL  cartridges  and  10mL  vials),  individual  titration  based  on  the  BG  values. 
Subjects were administered a subcutaneous injection between 0 to 15 minutes prior to a meal, at least 
twice daily, in association with basal insulin therapy (NPH insulin or insulin glargine). 
Insulin lispro (3mL cartridges and 10mL vials), individual titration based on the BG values. Subjects 
were  administered  a  subcutaneous  injection  between  0  to  15  minutes  prior  to  a  meal,  at  least  twice 
daily, in association with basal insulin therapy (NPH insulin or insulin glargine). 
BG targets were adapted to the age of the subjects (<8 years or ≥8 years) and to the BG meters used 
(plasma-referenced or whole blood-referenced). Details are provided below. 
The doses of insulin glulisine or insulin lispro were to be titrated based on the pre-meal BG values and 
those of insulin glargine or NPH insulin based on the fasting BG (FBG) and pre-meal BG values. 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Titration goals (Blood glucose targets) 
The  two  treatment  groups  had  a  similar  distribution  for  diabetes  duration  (5.2  to  5.3  years),  age  at 
diagnosis (7.2 to 7.5 years), and duration of insulin treatment (5.2 to 5.3 years).  
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  design,  which  is  similar  to  that  of  the  adult  studies  submitted 
previously, and analysis of the study are in accordance with the European Guidelines. 
2.1.1.2 Results 
Primary Efficacy Variable Analysis 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  the  change  in  GHb  from  baseline  to  endpoint  using  the  mITT 
population,  where  endpoint  was  defined  as  the  subject’s  last  available  measurement  during  the 
treatment phase. The PP population was analysed to check for the consistency of the results with the 
mITT population. 
GHb (%): Change from baseline at endpoint (mITT and PP populations) 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results  appear  to  support  the  non-inferiority  conclusion  of insulin  glulisine  compared  to  insulin 
lispro. Nevertheless, CHMP initially had some concern over the effect on the analysis of the algorithm 
used for pooling small centres and whether the analysis was affected by empty strata within centres. 
The concern was in particular related to the fact that the results might be biased in favour of Apidra 
due to the chosen method of handling small centres.  
In their responses to this concern the MAH provided a number of analyses of the primary variable that 
indicated  that  the  upper  limit  of  the  95%  CIs  for  the  difference  in  adjusted  means  for  change  from 
baseline  at  endpoint  in  HbA1c  are  well  below  the  non-inferiority  limit  of  0,4%.  These  results  were 
consistent  with  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  and  with  previous  results  of  sensitivity  analyses.  The 
MAH  therefore  concluded  that  the  strategy  of  pooling  centres  did  not  induce  any  bias  in  favour  of 
Apidra. The CHMP agreed with the MAH conclusions. 
Secondary Efficacy Variable Analysis 
There  were  no  changes  from  baseline  in  GHb  at  week  12  and  a  minimal  increase  in  GHb  in  both 
groups  at  week  26  (+0.08%  in  the  insulin  glulisine  group,  +0.17%  in  the  insulin  lispro  group).  
The  change  from  baseline at  each time-point  in the two  treatment  groups  was  similar to the  change 
observed for the primary analysis at endpoint. The 95% CIs of the between-treatment difference are 
consistent with the conclusion of non-inferiority as defined for the primary efficacy variable. 
GHb (%): change from baseline at weeks 12 and 26 – mITT population 
Proportion of subjects reaching different pre-specified GHb thresholds 
The  proportion  of  subjects  reaching  two  different  pre-specified  GHb  thresholds:  GHb  <8.5%,  and 
decrease in GHb from baseline ≥0.7% are displayed below. 
Number of subjects reaching GHb categories (mITT population) 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was a greater percentage of adolescents (13 to 17 years) in the insulin glulisine group reaching a 
GHb  level  <7.5%  (31.1% versus  21.1%).  Globally,  the  number  of  subjects  reaching  their respective 
GHb  goals  according  to  their  age  category  was  significantly  higher  in  the  insulin  glulisine  group 
(38.4% versus 32.0%, p=0.0386). 
Number (%) of subjects reaching GHb age-categories (mITT population) 
Insulin Doses 
The mean daily insulin doses are shown below. 
Mean daily insulin dose (in U) during the treatment phase (mITT population) 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-prandial glycaemic control, as assessed by self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) values and BG 
excursions,  was  similar  in  the  two  treatment  groups  at  endpoint,  with  no  statistically  significant 
difference  between  the  treatment  groups.  At  endpoint,  subjects  treated  with  insulin  lispro  required 
significantly greater increases from baseline in basal, rapid-acting and total insulin daily doses in order 
to achieve similar glycaemic control than subjects treated with insulin glulisine.  
There  were  no  noteworthy  differences  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  incidence  of  all 
symptomatic hypoglycaemia, severe symptomatic hypoglycaemia, and severe nocturnal symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia.  The  incidence  of  nocturnal  symptomatic  hypoglycaemia  was  higher  in  the  insulin 
glulisine group than the insulin lispro group in the time period “entire treatment phase”; this between-
group difference was mainly observed in the first month of treatment and decreased in the latter part of 
the treatment phase.  
Number (percentage) of subjects with all symptomatic hypoglycaemia (Safety population) 
Number of subjects with severe symptomatic hypoglycaemia (Safety population) 
Number (percentage) of subjects with nocturnal symptomatic hypoglycaemia (Safety population) 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number (percentage) of subjects with severe nocturnal symptomatic hypoglycaemia (Safety population) 
When  GHb  and  hypoglycaemia  were  analysed  in  subgroups  of  subjects  based  on  age,  sex,  race, 
duration  of  diabetes,  basal  insulin,  and  baseline  GHb,  the  results  observed  in  each  subgroup  were 
consistent with those seen in the population as a whole. 
Summary of subgroup factor analyses of GHb (mITT population) 
2.1.2 Study HMR1964A/1017 
This study was a single-centre, double-blind, randomised, two-way crossover study to investigate the 
pharmacokinetics  and  safety  of  0.15  IU/kg  HMR1964  (insulin  glulisine)  and  regular  human  insulin 
injected subcutaneously as a single dose in paediatric subjects with type I diabetes. 
2.1.2.1 Study design 
Study  HMR1964A/1017  was  a  single-centre,  single-dose,  double-blind,  randomised,  two-way 
crossover study design in subjects with type 1 diabetic. All subjects were to be girls or boys aged 5-11 
years and 12-17 years with established type 1 diabetes mellitus with an onset of at least one year prior 
to screening and stable insulin regimen for at least two years prior to study conduct, body weight not 
less than 20kg, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) ≤11.0%, daily insulin dose ≥0.5 U/kg, normal findings 
in  medical  history  and  physical  examination  and  normal  laboratory  values.  The  subjects  were 
randomised to treatment sequences in a stratified manner with age class as the stratification factor. 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects treated with common individualised paediatric antidiabetic regimen employing insulins were 
to be included. The study consisted of four trial periods as follows: Trial period 0 (screening), Trial 
periods 1 and 2 (treatment) and Trial period 3(follow-up examination). At trial periods 1 and 2 each 
subject  received  0.15  IU/kg  insulin  glulisine  or  0.15  IU/kg  regular  human  insulin,  injected 
subcutaneously in the periumbilical abdomen, according to the randomisation schedule.   
A total of 20 subjects were enrolled and treated in the study. Ten subjects were children aged between 
5 and 11 years and 10 subjects were adolescents aged between 12 and 17 years. All 20 subjects were 
evaluable  for  safety  and  pharmacodynamics.  Nineteen  subjects  were  fully  evaluable  for 
pharmacokinetics. 
The primary objective was to investigate the pharmacokinetics of insulin glulisine and regular human 
insulin  (HOE31HPR100)  in  paediatric  type  1  diabetic  subjects.  The  secondary  objectives  were  to 
investigate prandial glucose profiles of insulin glulisine and regular human insulin (HOE31HPR100) 
administered  before  a  standardised  meal  in paediatric  type  1  diabetic  subjects  and  to investigate the 
safety following a single subcutaneous dose of insulin glulisine in paediatric type 1 diabetic subjects. 
Overall, the mean age of subjects was 12.4 years and the mean BMI was 20.9 kg/m². 
Subject Demographics 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1.2.2 Results  
Pharmacokinetic data 
The serum insulin profile was characterised by the following pharmacokinetic parameters: 
• 
Area under the insulin concentration-time curve between 
− 
0 h and 1 h after injection (AUC(0-1h), µIU.min/mL) 
0 h and 2 h after injection (AUC(0-2h), µIU.min/mL) 
- 
0 h and 4 h after injection (AUC(0-4h), µIU.min/mL) 
- 
- 
0 h and 6 h after injection (AUC(0-6h), µIU.min/mL) 
Maximum concentration (Cmax, µIU/mL) 
Time to maximum concentration (Tmax, min) 
Mean residence time (MRT, min) 
• 
• 
• 
Comparison of pharmacokinetic results for all subjects 
In  both  age  classes,  children  (5  to  11  years,  inclusive)  and  adolescents  (12  to  17  years,  inclusive), 
insulin  glulisine  was  more  rapidly  absorbed  than  RHI.  The  concentration  time  profile  of  insulin 
glulisine showed initial fractional areas under the curves (AUCs) being higher after insulin glulisine. 
The maximum concentration (Cmax) of insulin glulisine was 71% higher and was reached earlier, with 
a median Tmax of 54 minutes, compared to 66 minutes after regular insulin (RHI). The mean residence 
time  (MRT)  for  insulin  glulisine  was  distinctly  shorter,  at  88  minutes  compared  to  137  minutes  for 
RHI. 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic Data 
The analysis variables were taken from profiles up to 6 hours: 
• 
Area under the baseline subtracted glucose concentration time curve between 
-  0 h and 1 h (AUC(0-1h), mg.h/dL) 
-  0 h and 2 h (AUC(0-2h), mg.h/dL) 
-  0 h and 4 h (AUC(0-4h), mg.h/dL) 
-  0 h and 6 h (AUC(0-6h), mg.h/dL) 
Time to maximum baseline subtracted blood glucose concentration (tmax,   min) 
Maximum blood glucose concentration (GLUmax, mg/dL) 
Maximum blood glucose excursion from baseline (∆GLUmax, mg/dL) 
Minimum blood glucose concentration (GLUmin, mg/dL) 
Time to minimum blood glucose concentration (tmin, min) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Additional analyses of glucose exposure and excursion were confined to data obtained within 4 hours 
after injection. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Time to maximum baseline subtracted glucose concentration within 4 hours (tmax-4h, min) 
Maximum blood glucose concentration within 4 hours (GLUmax-4h, mg/dL) 
Maximum blood glucose excursion from baseline within 4 hours   (∆GLUmax-4h, mg/dL) 
Minimum blood glucose concentration after GLUmax-4h within 6 hours (GLUmin-4h, mg/dL) 
Time to minimum blood glucose concentration after GLUmax-4h within 6 hours (tmin-4h, min) 
Comparison of pharmacodynamic results for all subjects: baseline corrected data 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic results: Children versus Adolescents 
Comparison of pharmacodynamic results for insulin glulisine: baseline corrected data 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison of pharmacodynamic results for regular human insulin: baseline corrected data, children 
versus adolescents 
Blood  glucose  exposure  and  excursions  were  lower  (AUCs,  GLUmax-4h  and  ∆GLUmax-4h)  after 
insulin glulisine than after RHI, when given immediately before meal, in the paediatric population as a 
whole as well as in both age classes, children and adolescents. 
2.1.2.3 Conclusions on pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic  
Insulin  glulisine  displays  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  properties  in  paediatric  type  1 
diabetic  patients,  which  in  this  population  also,  classify  insulin  glulisine  as  a  rapid-acting  insulin 
analogue  and  which  do  not  differ  from  adult  data.  The  CHMP  considered  that  there  is  adequate 
evidence to show that the results from this study are in agreement with those of the adult population. 
2.2.  Clinical safety 
2.2.1.  Study HMR1964D/3001 
Extent of Exposure 
A  total  of  572  subjects  were treated  with  study  medication:  277  with insulin  glulisine  and  295  with 
insulin lispro. The mean treatment duration was 176.6 (±27.0) days in the insulin glulisine group and 
178.9 (±18.7) days in the insulin lispro group. 
Adverse Events 
In general, both insulin glulisine and insulin lispro were well tolerated and overall, the kind, intensity 
and  frequency  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs)  were  similar  in  the  two  treatment 
groups.  A  total  of  148  (53.4%)  glulisine  subjects  and  173  (58.6%)  lispro  subjects  had  at  least  one 
reported  TEAE.  Possibly  related  TEAEs  were  reported  in  25  (9.0%)  glulisine  and  28  (9.5%)  lispro 
subjects. A total of 30 (10.8%) glulisine and 37 (12.5%) lispro subjects reported at least one serious 
TEAE. 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no noteworthy differences between treatment groups in the number of subjects reporting 
hypoglycaemia  as  a  serious  adverse  event  (SAE),  including  events  of  coma/unconsciousness  or 
seizures associated with hypoglycaemia. The percentage of subjects with hypoglycaemia reported as 
SAEs was 7.2% in the insulin glulisine group, and 8.1% in the insulin lispro group. 
A summary of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) is presented below. 
Overview of TEAEs (Safety population) 
Note: all hypoglycemia reported as serious adverse events were by the Sponsor’s definition, assessed as possibly related to the study 
medication (insulin glulisine, or insulin lispro).  
TEAE preferred terms occurring in ≥3% of subjects in either treatment group (Safety population) 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar  percentages  of  subjects  in  the  two  treatment  groups  had  possibly  related  TEAEs.  The  most 
common  possibly  related  preferred  terms  were  related  to  the  underlying  disease  (hypoglycaemic 
seizure, hypoglycaemia NOS, and hypoglycaemic coma) or to treatment of the disease (injection site 
hypertrophy). Similar percentages of subjects in the two treatment groups experienced these possibly-
related  preferred  terms.  All  other  possibly  related  preferred  terms  occurred  in  ≤2  subjects  in  either 
treatment group. 
TEAE  preferred  terms  considered  possibly  related  to  study  medication  occurring  in  ≥1%  of  subjects  in 
either treatment group (Safety population) 
Deaths, serious adverse events and other significant adverse events 
There  were  no  deaths. The  number  of  SAEs  reported  for  two  treatment  groups  was  similar  with  30 
subjects  (10.8%)  in  the  insulin  glulisine  group  and  37  subjects  (12.5%)  in  the  insulin  lispro  group. 
There  were  no  noteworthy  differences  between  the  two  groups  with  respect  to  the  types  of  SAEs. 
None  of  the  SAEs  led  to  discontinuation  of  the  subjects  from  the  study.  There  were  no  noteworthy 
differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  numbers/percentages  of  subjects  experiencing 
hypoglycaemia  reported  as  SAEs,  including  events  of  coma/unconsciousness  or  seizures  associated 
with hypoglycaemia. The overall frequency of serious hypoglycaemic events was 7.2% (20 subjects) 
in the insulin glulisine group, and 8.1% (24 subjects) in the insulin lispro group. 
Hypoglycaemia reported as serious adverse event (Safety population) 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events other than hypoglycaemia are presented below. 
Serious adverse events other than hypoglycaemia (Safety population) 
Withdrawals 
One subject in the insulin glulisine group was withdrawn from this study due to a non-serious adverse 
event of injection site swelling, which was possibly related to study medication. 
Other  AES 
A slightly higher percentage of subjects in the insulin glulisine group experienced potential systemic 
hypersensitivity reactions (8 subjects, i.e. 2.9% insulin glulisine, versus 3 subjects, i.e. 1.0% insulin 
lispro). All potential systemic hypersensitivity events were mild or moderate in intensity. None were 
considered possibly related to study medication, and no subjects discontinued treatment due to a 
hypersensitivity reaction. In all but two cases, the outcome was coded as recovered without sequelae; 
in the remaining two cases, the outcome was unknown (TEAEs of asthma and seasonal allergy). 
Potential systemic hypersensitivity reactions are summarised below. 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects with potential systemic hypersensitivity reactions (Safety population) 
Significant overdose 
Three subjects reported accidental overdoses during the treatment phase of the study. 
Clinical Laboratory Evaluations 
Comparison  of  mean  and median  values  for  clinical  laboratory  values,  as  well as  mean  and  median 
change in values, showed no relevant differences between the treatment groups. 
Cross-reactive insulin antibodies 
In the insulin glulisine group, there was an increase in the median cross-reactive antibody values 
which was maximal at week 12 (+0.540% B/T) and then decreased between week 12 and endpoint 
(+0.260% B/T). In the insulin lispro group, there was a decrease in the median value at endpoint (–
0.190% B/T). Overall, no correlation was found between cross-reactive antibody levels and changes 
seen in GHb levels, insulin doses, or in symptomatic and severe symptomatic hypoglycemia. 
2.2.2   Study HMR1964A/1017 
Adverse Events 
A total of 19 AEs were reported by nine patients (seven adolescents and two children) over the entire 
study  period.  The  most  common  adverse  events  were  upper  respiratory  infection  (five  events)  and 
rhinitis (four events). All events were mild in intensity and patients recovered without sequelae. Only 
one AE was assessed as possibly related: this was a case of mild urticaria on the face, which occurred 
after RHI administration. 
Only hypoglycaemia confirmed by a BG value below 50 mg/dL (=2.8 mmol/L), whether symptomatic 
or  not,  was  recorded  and  analysed.  Twelve  patients  had  symptomatic  hypoglycaemia  (18  events) 
during  the  study,  which  in  nine  patients  occurred  before  administration  of  study  medication. 
Countermeasures were confined to oral carbohydrates with the exception of one patient, who received 
an electrolyte-glucose infusion to prevent imminent nocturnal hypoglycaemia about nine hours before 
administration of insulin glulisine. There were no cases of severe hypoglycaemia. 
Deaths, serious adverse events and other significant adverse events 
There  were  no  deaths,  no  SAEs,  no  AEs  leading  to  withdrawal,  no  hypoglycaemia  reported  as  a 
serious TEAE, no eye abnormalities and no episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis reported in this study. 
No clinically relevant abnormalities in laboratory variables were observed. 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3 Conclusions on safety 
The CHMP considered that there was sufficient evidence to characterise the safety profile of Apidra in 
the  paediatric  population  aged  8  to  17  years  of  age  and  that  this  safety  profile  was  acceptable. 
However,  only  22  and  19  patients  under  the  age  of  8  years  old  had  been  randomised  to  insulin 
glulisine and lispro, respectively. The CHMP therefore considered that the analysis of the subgroup of 
younger patients did not provide reliable evidence for the consistency of the results in patients at the 
lower end of the range studied. 
In  their  response  to  this  concern  the  MAH  proposed  to  lower  this  age  limit  to  6  years  instead  of  8 
years, arguing that in the age category ≥6 and < 8 years the number of subjects studied was 32 (18 in 
the glulisine group and 14 in the lispro group). Although relatively low, this number corresponds to 
6.5% of the population exposed in the glulisine group and is consistent with the current epidemiologic 
data available for this  age category.  The  MAH  argued  that  it  seems  possible  to  extrapolate  the  data 
observed for the population over 8 years exposed in the study to the particular age category ≥6 and < 8 
years. The MAH also put forward that according to general experience in insulin therapy, there is no 
medical rationale supporting a difference in efficacy when considering the paediatric population below 
or above the age of 8 years. 
The CHMP acknowledged the MAH arguments and agreed to an indication in the age group 6 to 17 
years  of  age.  However,  since  experience  in  the  younger  children  is  regarded  as  limited  while  the 
incidence of serious hypoglycaemia was somewhat higher in the younger subgroups of the trial, the 
MAH was requested to undertake certain activities as defined in the RMP (section 2.4) and in the list 
of follow-up measures in order to gain further knowledge in the younger patients. 
2.3 SPC and PL 
Further to the new indication, the SPC sections 4.1, 4.2 and 5.1 have been updated. Sections 1 and 2 of 
the PL have been updated accordingly. Annex II has been updated to include the revised PSUR cycle.  
2.4   Pharmacovigilance and Risk Management Plan 
The MAH did not consider there was a need for a Risk Management Plan (RMP) for this application, 
as  it  was  to  extend  the  target  population  in  an  approved  indication,  and  there  were  no  new  or 
unexpected safety signals identified in the newly submitted data. However, within this type II variation 
procedure the CHMP considered a RMP to be necessary in view of the still limited data in the younger 
population. The MAH was therefore requested to submit a RMP. A summary of the RMP is presented 
in the table below. 
The CHMP, having assessed the data submitted in the application, was of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the RMP 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
Hypoglycaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Description of ADRs reported in children aged between 6 
and 12 years in the section “Specific populations” of the 
planned 6-month PSURs 
Post-marketing observational prospective cohort study of 
diabetic children in Europe 
Injection site reaction 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Systemic 
hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Description of ADRs reported in children aged between 6 
and 12 years in the section “Specific populations” of the 
planned 6-month PSURs 
Post-marketing observational prospective cohort study of 
diabetic children in Europe 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Description of ADRs reported in children aged between 6 
and 12 years in the section “Specific populations” of the 
planned 6-month PSURs 
Post-marketing observational prospective cohort study of 
diabetic children in Europe 
Medication error 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Analyse in the section “Drug abuse or misuse” of the 
planned 6-month PSURs 
Post-marketing observational prospective cohort study of 
diabetic children in Europe 
SPC sections 4.4, 4.8 and 4.9: provide description 
of the risk, and give full considerations of conditions 
that may cause hypoglycaemia and require dosage 
reduction 
SPC sections 4.8 (skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders): informs about this risk 
SPC section 4.3: known hypersensitivity to insulin 
glulisine or to any of the excipients is a 
contraindication to its use SPC 
SPC section 4.8 (general disorders): informs about 
this risk 
Medical devices issues are being handled in the 
SPC of the relevant presentations 
Antigenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Theoretical risk only, not described in the SPC 
Off-label use in 
children below 6 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Analyse in the section “Off-label use” of the planned 6-
month PSURs 
Monitoring of insulin glulisine prescriptions through a 
prescription survey 
Use in pregnancy 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
SPC sections 4.2 and 5.1: states that there is 
insufficient clinical information on the use of 
APIDRA® in children younger than the age of 6 
years 
SPC section 4.6: informs about the lack of 
adequate data in pregnancy 
3.   OVERALL CONCLUSION AND BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT 
The MAH submitted one pharmacokinetic study and one safety and efficacy clinical trial in support of 
the  proposed  extension  of  indication  to  the  treatment  of  adolescents  and  children  of  4  years  old  or 
above with diabetes mellitus where treatment with insulin is required.   
The data provided for children below 6 years of age were regarded by the CHMP as too limited but it 
was considered acceptable to extrapolate the results observed in the study population over 8 years to 
the subgroup of children aged between 6 and 8 years. 
The CHMP was therefore of the opinion that the benefit-risk is positive for the treatment of diabetes 
mellitus  in  the  adolescents  and  children  from  the  age  of  6  years.  However,  in  order  to  gain  further 
knowledge in the younger patients the MAH is to undertake certain activities as defined in the RMP 
(section  2.4)  and  in  the  list  of  follow-up  measures.  In  particular  the  MAH  is  to  submit  6  monthly 
PSURs until the renewal of the marketing authorisation. 
20
 
 
 
 
