SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects 
For information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
initial  scientific  discussion 
the 
for 
the  approval  of  Apidra.  
1. 
Introduction 
This  is  a  complete  application  for  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Apidra 
submitted in accordance with Article 8.3 (i) of Directive 2001/83/EEC. 
Apidra  contains  the  new  active  substance  insulin  glulisine,  an  analogue  of  human  insulin.  
Insulin glulisine is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Escherichia coli (E. coli) and differs 
from human insulin by two amino acid substitutions on the B chain of the protein. These give insulin 
glulisine  a  faster  onset  of  action  as  they  prevent  the  formation  of  inactive  hexamers  when  injected. 
Insulins  have  a  pronounced  tendency  to  form  hexamers  that  need  to  disintegrate  to  dimers  and 
monomers to be pharmacologically active. The amino acid substitutions in insulin glulisine destabilise 
the hexamers and therefore enable a faster onset of action than that achieved with human insulin. 
Apidra is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with diabetes mellitus. 
Diabetes  Mellitus  is  a  chronic  disorder  characterised  by  hyperglycemia  resulting  from  defects  in 
insulin  secretion,  insulin  action,  or  both.  Type 1  diabetes  mellitus  is  characterised  by  little  or  no 
insulin  secretory  capacity,  and  patients  with  type 1  diabetes  mellitus  require  insulin  for  survival.  
In  type 2  diabetes  mellitus  the  combined  effects  of  impaired  insulin  secretion  and  insulin  resistance 
result in elevated blood  glucose  levels. In at least one-third of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
the  disease  progresses  to  an  absolute  requirement  for  insulin  therapy.  In  types 1  and  2  diabetes 
mellitus,  hyperglycemia is a risk factor  for microvascular complications  exemplified by retinopathy, 
nephropathy, and neuropathy. Studies have shown that improving the control of blood glucose levels 
in  patients  with  type 1  or  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  reduces  the  risk  of  microvascular  complications. 
Combinations of insulin preparations that differ both in their time of onset and duration of action are 
used  to  optimally  control  blood  glucose  concentrations  in  patients  with  diabetes  mellitus.  The  most 
commonly  used  insulin  regimens  include  a long-acting  insulin to provide basal insulin  requirements 
and control fasting and preprandial blood glucose values in combination with a short-acting insulin to 
control prandial blood glucose excursions.  
Insulin glulisine displays a time-concentration and time-action profile with a more rapid onset, earlier 
peak  effect  in  lowering  blood  glucose  levels,  and  a  shorter  duration  of  action  than  the  short-acting 
insulin  preparation  of  regular  human  insulin.  The  time-concentration  and  time-action  profiles  of 
insulin  glulisine  define  it  as  a  member  of  the  rapid-acting  insulin  subfamily  of  short-acting  insulin 
preparations.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Introduction 
Apidra  is  a  clear  colourless  solution  for  injection  containing  100  units/ml  of  the  active  substance 
insulin glulisine. Apidra 100 units/ml is available in the following presentations: 
1/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 ml injection vials  
3 ml cartridges (for e.g. OptiPen Pro pen device) 
pre-filled pen, OptiSet (containing one 3 ml cartridge) 
• 
• 
• 
Vials and cartridges can also be used to refill external insulin infusion pumps. 
The  medicinal  product  contains  as  excipients  metacresol,  trometamol,  sodium  chloride,  polysorbate 
20, and water for injections. Hydrochloric acid (concentrated) and/or sodium hydroxide may be used 
to adjust the pH. 
The  two  containers  selected  for  this  product  are:    (1)  10-ml  injection  vials  made  of  colourless  glass 
(Ph.Eur. Type 1), with aluminium cap and tear-off lid, and inserted rubber gasket; (2) 3-ml cartridges 
made of colourless glass (Ph.Eur. Type 1) with rubber stopper and aluminium cap, and inserted rubber 
gasket. Both, injection vials and cartridges are overfilled to ensure an adequate extractable volume. 
Active Substance  
General Information  
Recommended INN:   Insulin glulisine 
Chemical name:  
Manufacturer’s code:  HMR 1964 
3BLys-29BGlu -human insulin  
Description of the active substance 
Insulin glulisine is an analogue of human insulin and is manufactured from a fusion protein produced 
by  Escherichia  coli  using  recombinant  DNA  technology.  The  rapid  acting  time-action  profile  of 
insulin glulisine is achieved by exchange of two amino acids in the B –chain of human insulin. Asn is 
replaced  by  Lys  at  position  3B  and  Lys  is  replaced  by  Glu  at  position  29B.  The  molecular  mass  of 
insulin glulisine is 5923 Dalton. 
The active substance is a powder of fine white to nearly clear white color. It is hygroscopic and shows 
a  reversible  uptake  of  atmospheric  water.  The  solubility  of  the  active  substance  is  pH  dependent. 
Insulin glulisine is practically insoluble in aqueous media around the isoelectric point of 5.1 and, as 
well, practically insoluble in methanol and ethanol.  
•  Manufacture 
Development genetics 
The genetic development has been extensively described and the rationale for the construction of the 
vector/host  system  has  been  given.  The  preparation  of  the  production  strain  (E.  coli)  has  been 
adequately described. In addition, the production strain has been described in sufficient detail. 
Cell bank system 
Description 
For the production of insulin glulisine a two-tiered cell bank system has been established. The master 
cell  bank  (MCB)  was  prepared  from  the  production  strain.  An  aliquot  of  this  MCB  was  used  to 
prepare  the  first  working  cell  bank  (WCB)  under  the  same  culture  conditions  as  for  the  MCB.  All 
operations were performed under controlled conditions.  
Testing 
The  identity,  the  microbiological  purity,  the  viability  of  cells  as  well  as  the  plasmid  retention  were 
determined  for  all cell banks. The  growth characteristic  and the ability to express the fusion protein 
were  verified  on  the  basis  of  lab-scale  fermentation  runs.  Also,  the  identity  of  the  plasmid  and  the 
maintenance  of  the  correct  coding  sequence  of  the  fusion  protein  and  the  relevant  elements  of  the 
promoter and operator regions were verified by means of restriction enzyme and nucleic acid sequence 
analyses. Each subsequent working cell bank will be prepared and stored in the same manner as the 
current WCB.  
2/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
The cell bank system is considered stable under defined storage conditions. The storage stability of the 
MCB  and  the  WCB  was  determined  by  investigating  relevant  cell  bank  parameters,  including 
microbiological,  physiological,  and  molecular  biological  characteristics.  After  5  years  of storage, no 
changes have been observed in the investigated parameters. The product formation and growth of the 
production  strain  was  adequately  proven  to  be  stable.  No  microbial  contamination  was  detected.  
No decrease in product formation, viable cell count or plasmid retention was observed. The results of 
restriction  enzyme  analyses  confirmed  that  the  restriction  patterns  of  the  plasmid  DNA  remained 
unchanged.  No  insertions  or  deletions  of  the  plasmid  DNA  were  detected  in  the  analyses.  
The complete sequence of the fusion protein and the sequence of the relevant elements of the promoter 
and operator region were confirmed for the master and the first working cell bank. The stability of the 
cell bank system will be controlled ongoing. 
Genetic stability 
The genetic stability of the production strain was proven during production and storage on the master 
and  first  working  cell  bank  where  the  genetic  stability  of  the  expression  system  was  adequately 
demonstrated  by  investigating  production  cells  up  to  and  beyond  the  generation  number  used  in 
regular  production.  Cells  from  several  regular  fermentations  and  from  two  extended  fermentations 
were examined for the genetic stability. The rate of plasmid retention was found to be 100 % during 
the  complete  cultivation  time.  The  end  of  production  cells  were  investigated  by  polyacrylamide  gel 
electrophoresis,  restriction  enzyme,  and  nucleic  acid  sequence  analysis  demonstrating  the  genetic 
stability during production. 
Fermentation and purification 
The  manufacturing  process  of  insulin  glulisine  consist  of  15  steps  which  can  be  divided  into  three 
major parts: cell culture and harvest, basic downstream processing and final purification. In summary, 
the insulin glulisine fusion protein is expressed by E. coli and stored in inclusion bodies within E. coli 
cells.  The  fusion  protein  is  folded  and  then  enzymatically  converted  during  downstreaming 
processing. The product is thoroughly purified by chromatography.  
Cell culture and harvest 
The  cell  culture  process  (from  WCB  to  harvest)  has  been  adequately  described  and  a  flow  chart 
submitted.  In-process  controls  (IPC)  assure  appropriate  cell  growth  and  the  absence  of  microbial 
contamination.  In  addition,  the  correct  overall  performance  of  the  fermentation  is  verified  by 
monitoring the production yield for which a lower limit has been set. Specifications for raw materials 
and a description of cell culture media have been provided. No human or animal derived materials are 
used in the cell culture process. 
Basic downstream processing and final purification 
The  recovery  and  purification  processes  have  been  adequately  described  and  flow  charts  have  been 
submitted. Appropriate IPC have been justified and limits set to ensure consistency. In addition, upper 
and  lower  limits  for  the  critical  steps  have  been  provided.  All  relevant  buffers  and  reagents  used 
during the purification process are described and specifications are presented.   
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The manufacturing process of the active substance is monitored by appropriate in-process controls.  
The basic downstream processing and final purification of the active substance are performed at two 
different  plants.  The  transport  of  the  intermediate  to  the  final  purification  plant  is  carried  out  under 
controlled  temperature  conditions  to  maintain  the  quality  of  the  product.  Sufficient  downstream  in-
process controls are in place to monitor the product in subsequent manufacturing.  
3/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Process validation 
Adequate  validation  data  derived  from  4  consecutive  production  scale  batches  have  been  presented. 
All specifications were consistently met. The submitted data confirm that the applied procedures are 
adequately designed and controlled to yield a consistent quality of insulin glulisine. Studies to validate 
holding  times  of  intermediates  were  provided  and  the  presented  data  justify  the  proposed  holding 
times.  A  sufficient  cleaning  validation  study  was  performed  for  the  active  substance  manufacturing 
process.  
Viral validation studies were carried out on the production processes of the enzymes and on the insulin 
glulisine  manufacturing  process  obtaining  satisfactory  results  (see  Adventitious  Agents  safety 
Evaluation). 
Characterisation 
The  structure  of  insulin  glulisine  was  satisfactorily  characterised  by  state  of  the  art  methods    using 
insulin  glulisine  primary  reference  standard:  mass  spectrometry,  NMR  spectrometry,  infrared 
absorption  spectrometry,  ultraviolet  absorption  spectrometry,  X  ray  diffractometry,  amino  acid 
sequence (Edman sequencing), UV circular dichroism spectrometry. 
Impurities 
A thorough discussion on process- and product-related impurities, e.g. host cell and vector DNA, host 
(HMWP))  and  21A-
cell  protein,  enzymes,  aggregates 
Desamido-HMR1964)  has  been  presented.  The  documentation  submitted  has  sufficiently 
demonstrated  the  removal  of  the  impurities.  Further  on,  the  impurities  are  either  controlled  by  in 
process testing or by specification testing of the active substance. Alternatively adequate justification 
is  provided.  The  tests  used  have  been  adequately  described  and  validated.  The  results  from  the 
removal of the precursors and truncated forms during the purification steps of the process evaluation 
campaign 2002 have been submitted, which show that these impurities are also efficiently removed.  
(high  molecular  weight  proteins 
Specification of the active substance 
Appropriate  specifications  have  been  set  and  justified  for  the  active  substance.  Additional  test 
parameters have  been included in the active substance specification. The testing of these parameters 
may  be  discontinued,  if  supported  by  commercial  scale  data  and  after  approval  by  a  variation.  
The  methods  for  release  testing  of  the  active  substance  are  adequately  described  and  validated 
according  to  ICH  guidelines.    Batch  results  presented  show  a  high  degree  of  batch-to-batch 
consistency.  
Primary  and  secondary  reference  standards  have  been  established  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q6B 
requirements.  Test  results  of  both  standards  fully  comply  with  the  current  active  substance 
specifications. The stability of both reference standards is monitored ongoing.  
Batch analysis 
Batch results from 29 batches of insulin glulisine active substance used for toxicological and clinical 
trials as well as for primary stability studies were submitted including all batches manufactured at pilot 
and production scale. The results demonstrate a high degree of batch-to-batch consistency in the active 
substance manufacturing process. 
Stability 
The  stability  of  the  active  substance  is  being  investigated  in  an  ongoing  extensive  study.  
The  submitted  results  sufficiently  show,  that  insulin  glulisine  is  stable  under  long-term  storage 
conditions (-20°C) and predict a 24-month storage period at –20°C.  
4/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Product development 
The  development  of  the  formulation  and  the  choice  of  excipients  has  been  fully  described  and 
justified.  The  excipients  used  in  Apidra  are  well  known,  of  pharmacopoeial  grade  and  approved  for 
parenteral use. Compatibility of insulin glulisine and the excipients has been satisfactorily addressed. 
The  final,  optimised  formulation  contains  as  excipients  metacresol  (antimicrobial  preservative), 
trometamol (buffering agent), sodium chloride (tonicity agent), polysorbate 20 (stabilising agent) and 
water  for  injection  (solvent).  During  the  final  formulation  step,  sodium  hydroxide  (alkalizing  agent) 
and concentrated hydrochloric acid (acidifying agent) may be used for adjustment of pH. 
Clinical trial formulations vs. intended market formulation 
Four different formulations were used during development for the first pre-clinical and phase I clinical 
studies.  Later  phase  I  and  all  phase  III  studies  were  performed  with  batches,  which  qualitative  and 
quantitative composition is identical to the medicinal product intended for the market. 
Manufacturing process development 
The  manufacturing  process  remained  largely  unchanged  throughout  the  process  development.  
Only  minor  changes  were  introduced  to  simplify  the  process  and  to  allow  scaled  up  batch  sizes. 
Stability studies show that these minor changes have no impact on the overall quality of the medicinal 
product. 
Container closure system 
Insulin  glulisine  solution  for  injection  is  supplied  in  two  multiple-dose  packages:  10 mL  vials  and 
3 mL cartridges. Adequate specifications and routine tests have been established for these components 
and satisfactory batch analysis data have been submitted. 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  based  on  conventional  dissolving,  mixing,  pH  adjusting,  filtration, 
filling and packaging techniques. These steps have been described in sufficient detail and a flow chart 
has been presented. Some Steps are performed under aseptic conditions. Sufficient data are provided 
to  demonstrate  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  removing  endotoxins  and  controlling 
bioburden levels. Critical steps have been identified and are controlled. Recent certificates of analyses 
have been provided for all excipients besides water, for which the specification including frequency of 
testing was submitted. Appropriate in process controls have been set. All parts of the equipment and 
the  primary  packaging  components  that  come  in  contact  with  the  product  are  sterilised  using  a 
validated procedure.  
Medicinal Product Specification 
All  methods  for  release  testing  of  the  medicinal  product  have  been  adequately  described  and  are 
validated according to ICH guidelines. Appropriate medicinal product specifications have been set and 
justified.  The  acceptance  criterion  for  total  related  impurities  will  be  reviewed  when  24  months 
stability data will be available. Any future changes to the limits for total related impurities and high 
molecular  weight  proteins  in  the  medicinal  product  specification  should  be  approved  through  a 
variation.  
The  activity  of  insulin  glulisine  will  be  labelled  in  units.  The  applicant  has  provided  bioassay  data 
which  were  obtained  with  the  rabbit  blood  sugar  method  from  the  USP.  Insulin  human  G  USP  was 
used as reference standard in the bioassay, and was used to calibrate the primary reference standard for 
insulin  glulisine.  In  compliance  with  Ph.Eur.  and  ICH  recommendations  the  activity  of  insulin 
glulisine will be labelled in units. The  Ph.Eur. recommends the use of international units for human 
insulins but not for insulin analogues. ICH Q6B states that in case there is no international reference 
standard  for  a  biological  molecule,  the  potency  of  the  molecule  should  be  calculated  against  a 
characterised in-house reference material and the results should be reported as in-house units. 
5/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Process Validation 
For process validation three consecutive batches of the bulk solution were manufactured at production 
scale and filled into 10 ml vials and 3 ml cartridges. The results from the validation study showed that 
the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  consistently  producing  Apidra  100  units/ml  batches  in 
production scale of the required quality.  
Batch analysis data 
Batch analysis data have been provided for laboratory, pilot and production scale batches of medicinal 
product manufactured between February 1998 and December 2002. Results have also been submitted 
for  three  process  validation  batches.  All  batches  complied  with  the  requirements  of  the  medicinal 
product specification. 
Stability of the Medicinal Product  
The  proposed  shelf  life  for  the  10  ml  injection  vials  and  the  3  ml  cartridges  is  24  months  at  5°C.  
The  applicant  is  carrying  out  an  extensive,  ongoing  stability  study  over  24  months.  Stability  is 
monitored by a variety of test methods and results support the proposed shelf-life. 
Based on results from the in-use stability study and in compliance with CPMP/QWP/159/96 corr., an 
in-use shelf life of 28 days at 25°C is approved for both, cartridges and vials. 
According  to  the  outcome  of  the  photostability  study,  which  revealed  the  photosensitivity  of  the 
medicinal product, Apidra should be stored protected from light. 
Facilities and Equipment 
Flow charts of the manufacturing process have been provided together with appropriate details of the 
equipment and facilities used for manufacture.  
Adventitious Agents Safety Evaluation 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used in the product manufacture and therefore there is no 
risk of contamination with viral or TSE agents by these ingredients. No animal ingredients are used for 
preparation of the cell banks or in the fermentation process. During downstream processing, enzymes 
are used, which are derived from porcine pancreas. All pigs used are suitable for human consumption 
and  each  batch  of  product  must  contain  a  certificate  of  animal  origin  and  species  in  addition  to  the 
certificate  of  analysis.  Viral  validation  studies  were  carried  out  to  test  the  ability  of  the  production 
process  of  the  enzymes  to  remove  and  inactivate  viruses.  The  submitted  viral  clearance  study  data 
demonstrate  that  the  enzyme  manufacturing  processes  are  capable  of  inactivating/removing  viruses. 
The choice of viruses, production steps investigated and the validity of the scale down process have 
been  satisfactorily  addressed.  Based  on  these  results,  the  possibility  of  viral  contamination  with  the 
use of these enzymes in the production process of insulin glulisine is considered negligible. 
Furthermore,  a  study  on  the  viral  clearance  of  the  production  process  of  insulin  glulisine  has  been 
conducted.  The  study  is  adequately  described  and  justified.  Results  demonstrate  the  ability  of  the 
insulin  glulisine  production  process  to  significantly  reduce  possible  viral  contamination.  Assurance 
has been provided that viruses potentially retained during chromatography will be eliminated by the 
sanitisation procedure. Data confirm the robustness of the production process. Parameters influencing 
the effectiveness of a production step on the inactivation and/or removal of viruses are controlled by 
appropriate  process  parameter  ranges  and  acceptance  limits.  Based  on  the  data  provided  Apidra  is 
considered virologically safe. 
Pen Devices 
Insulin glulisine solution for injection filled into 3 mL cartridges can either be used in a reusable pen, 
e.g. OptiPen Pro, which is a medical device or be assembled in a disposable pen OptiSet. OptiPen Pro 
is  a  class  IIb  medical  device,  approved  in  the  EU  since  1998  under  CE  mark  0123.  It  is  already 
commercialised for other insulins marketed by Aventis Pharma Deutschland GmbH. A copy of the EC 
certificate  issued  by  the  German  Notified  Body  TÜV  Product  Service  GmbH  has  been  provided  as 
well as an EC Declaration of conformity from Aventis Pharma.  
6/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  dose  accuracy  study  has  been  carried  out  with  Apidra  in  OptiPen  Pro  and  OptiSet.  The  results 
obtained with both devices showed compliance with the requirements of ISO 11608-1 under the test 
conditions uesd. Based on these data, both Optiset and OptiPen Pro may be used with insulin glulisine 
solution for injection filled in cartridges.  
Preservative  efficacy  in  compliance  with  Ph.Eur.  criteria  A  requirements  was  proven  for  cartridges 
stored  at  25  °C  for  6  months  and  37  °C  for  one  month.  The  content  of  M-cresol  did  not  show  a 
significant  change  during  the  in-use  period,  regardless  of  the  storage  conditions.  No  microbial 
contamination  was  detected.  At  the  end  of  the  in-use  period  the  total  viable  aerobic  count  remained 
unchanged at < 1 cfu/ml. 
The cartridges for use in the Optiset devices should be stored at 2 - 8 °C before use, and below 25 °C 
during use. 
Pump Devices 
Insulin  glulisine  solution  for  injection  can  be  infused  subcutaneously  by  external  insulin  pumps. 
Compatibility  studies  were  performed  to  support  the  use  of  Apidra  in  infusion  pumps  and  their 
corresponding infusion sets, when transferred into the cartridges and reservoirs recommended by the 
pump  manufacturers.  The  results  of  the  compatibility  studies  confirm  the  chemical  and  physical 
integrity of Apidra under the ordinary use in these pumps and infusion systems. 
• 
Insulin Pumps and Infusion Sets Used in Compatibility Studies 
Pump  
(manufacturer and type) 
Disetronic D-Tron 
Delivery System 
(Reservoir/Cartridge) 
3ml cartridge (colourless 
glass) 
Disetronic H-Tron plus V100  3.15ml Cartridge 
(polypropylene) 
3ml Reservoir 
(Polypropylene) 
Medtronic Minimed 508 
Infusion Set  
(manufacturer and type) 
Disetronic Rapid D CR12 
Disetronic Ultraflex soft 
Disetronic Tender 
Disetronic Tender 
Medtronic Minimed Sof-Set 
Ultimate QR 
Medtronic Minimed Quick 
Set QR 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The information provided in the application demonstrated consistent batch-
to-batch  production  of  Apidra  achieving  a  well-defined  quality  for  the  active  substance  and  the  
medicinal  product.  The  fermentation,  basic  down-stream  processing  and  purification  of  the  active 
substance,  insulin  glulisine,  are  adequately  controlled  and  validated.  Appropriate  active  substance 
specifications  have  been  set.  The  active  substance  has  been  well  characterised  using  state-of  the-art 
methods  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical  characteristics.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the 
medicinal product has been described and validated in sufficient detail. The quality of the medicinal 
product is controlled by adequate test methods and specifications. No excipients of human or animal 
origin are used in the product manufacture and therefore there is no risk of contamination with viral or 
TSE agents by these ingredients. No animal ingredients are used for the cell culture process, the basic 
downstream  processing  and  purification  with  the  exception  of  porcine  enzymes.  Sufficient  virus 
validation data were provided for the manufacturing processes of porcine enzymes and, as well, for the 
manufacturing  process  of 
is  virologically  safe.  
On  the  basis  of  the  data  provided  and  the  agreed  follow-up  measures,  the  quality  of  the  product  is 
satisfactory for the grant of a Marketing Authorisation.  
insulin  glulisine 
that  Apidra 
to  consider 
7/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  non-clinical  development  program  was  primarily  designed  to  compare  the  pharmacological  and 
toxicological properties of insulin glulisine to soluble human insulin. In some studies, the rapid-acting 
insulin analogues insulin lispro and/or insulin aspart and/or AspB10 were used as comparators as well. 
The  applicants  point  out  that  the  program  was  performed  in  compliance  with  the  ICH  guideline  on 
"Preclinical  Safety  Evaluation  of  Biotechnology-Derived  Pharmaceuticals",  the  CHMP  "Points  to 
Consider  Document  on  the  Non-Clinical  Assessment  of  the  Carcinogenic  Potential  of  Insulin 
Analogues", the CHMP "Points to Consider on the Need for Assessment of Reproductive Toxicity of 
Human Insulin Analogues" and other applicable guidelines. 
The  Applicant  states  that  all  non-clinical  safety  studies  were  GLP-compliant,  except  for  the  safety 
pharmacology  study  in  conscious  telemeter  dogs.  This  study,  which  was  completed  before  the 
effective  date  of  the  CHMP  "Note  for  Guidance  on  Safety  Pharmacology  Studies  for  Human 
Pharmaceuticals",  was  not  audited  but  meets  all  other  principles  of  current  GLP  regulations.  
Scientific advice was previously requested to the CHMP in 2000, regarding non-clinical aspects. 
Pharmacology 
Insulin glulisine (3BLys-29BGlu-human insulin) is a rapid-acting analogue of human insulin in which 
the asparagine moiety at position  B3 is replaced  by lysine and the lysine moiety at position B29 by 
glutamic  acid.  Thus,  insulin  glulisine  is  a  close  structural  relative  of  human  insulin.  1  U  of  insulin 
glulisine equals 34.9 µg, and 1 ng equals 28.6 µU. 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
-In vitro 
Primary  pharmacodynamics  included  in  vitro  tests  for  insulin  receptor  binding,  effects  on  glucose 
transport and lipogenesis.  
Insulin glulisine and human insulin had comparable insulin receptor association kinetics and maximal 
binding in transformed rat embryo fibroblasts over-expressing the insulin receptor.  Insulin glulisine 
had  a  slightly  lower  affinity  for  the  insulin  receptor  than  human  insulin  in  human  insulin  receptor 
preparations.  
Lipogenic  activity  and  glucose  transport  in  isolated  rat  adipocytes  was  slightly  lower  than  human 
insulin, but reached the same maximum obtainable effect as human insulin at higher concentrations.  
In contrast to human insulin, which exerted a prominent and equal activation of IRS-1 and IRS-2 in rat 
and  human  cardiomyoblasts  and  adult  rat  cardiomyoctyes,  insulin  glulisine  produced  a  marginal 
activation of IRS-1 in all three cell systems, and showed a predominant activation of IRS-2 in adult rat 
cardiomyocytes expressing a high level of insulin receptors as well as in cardiomyoblasts with a high 
density of IGF-1 receptors.  Stimulation of glucose transport was equal for both insulin glulisine and 
human insulin in this cellular assay system independent of the IRS-1 or IRS-2 pathway. 
-In vivo 
Primary pharmacodynamics included in vivo tests for evaluating the effects on blood.  
Insulin  glulisine  administered  to  rats  s.c.  was  as  effective  as  insulin  lispro  and  showed  a  slightly 
greater  hypoglycaemic  activity  than  human  insulin.    In  euglycaemic  clamp  studies  in  dogs  insulin 
glulisine  demonstrated  the  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  rapid-acting  insulin.    The  time-action 
profile of insulin glulisine displayed a faster onset and shorter duration of action than regular human 
insulin and was not statistically different from the profile of insulin lispro.  
8/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Based on hypoglycaemic activity of various mixtures of human regular insulin or rapid-acting insulin 
analogues  with  human  NPH  insulin,  it  appears  that  insulin  glulisine  is  suitable  to  be  mixed  with 
human NPH insulin immediately before injection 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary pharmacodynamics investigated the effects on IGF-1 and mitogenic activity. 
Insulin and  IGF-I have a high degree of sequence homology and share a spectrum of metabolic and 
mitogenic activities.  At very high concentrations, insulin can bind to the IGF-I receptor and mediate 
the effects of IGF-1.  Such concentrations are not reached in human therapy. 
The IGF-1 receptor affinity of insulin glulisine was significantly lower than that of human insulin in 
human  osteosarcoma  cells  and  slightly  reduced  in  rat  cardiomyoblasts.    Insulin  glulisine  induced  a 
higher  IGF-1  receptor  autophosphorylation  than  human  insulin  in  rat  cardiomyoblasts  at  a 
concentration of 500 nmol/L.  
Stimulation  of  MAP  kinases  activation  (related  to  mitogenic  effects)  was  even  lower  for  insulin 
glulisine  relative  to  human  insulin.    In  the  final  pathway,  stimulation  of  Shc  protein  and  DNA 
synthesis (thymidine incoporation) was equal for insulin glulisine and human insulin, and lower than 
Asp(B10) insulin.  In rat fibroblasts over-expressing the human insulin receptor, insulin glulisine and 
human insulin did not differ with respect to stimulation of thymidine incorporation at concentrations 
of  0.01  nmol/L  and  0.1  nmol/L.    By  contrast  Asp  (B10) insulin enhanced mitogenesis.  In a  human 
breast cancer cell line (MCF10) over a concentration range from 0.01 to 100 nmol/L insulin glulisine 
showed lower mitogenic activity than human insulin at concentrations above 1 nmol/L. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
The safety pharmacology tests investigated the effects on the CVS and respiratory system. The clamp 
studies in conscious telemetered dogs did not reveal any clinically relevant effect on vital functions.  
Subcutaneous injection of up to 1.0 U/kg insulin glulisine caused a decrease in systolic blood pressure 
and an increase in heart rate and breathing rate. These inotropic and chronotropic effects are known to 
be caused by insulin-induced hypoglycaemia.   
The observed increase in QTc is well known from insulin-induced hypoglycaemia in man. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
When insulin glulisine was mixed with human NPH insulin immediately before s.c. administration in 
healthy  dogs  there  were  no  adverse  effects.  The  mixture  had  a  later  onset  and  MTA  but  no  loss  of 
hypoglycaemic effect. 
Insulin glulisine is expected to behave like other insulins. The class labelling applied to section 4.5 of 
the proposed SPC on interactions with other medicinal products is appropriate.  
• 
Summary of salient findings 
Primary  pharmacodynamics  comprised  in  vitro  tests  for  insulin  receptor  binding,  effects  on  glucose 
transport and lipogenesis. In vivo studies evaluated effects on blood glucose. In vitro, insulin glulisine 
behaved  similarly  to  human  insulin  with  respect  to  insulin  receptor  binding,  insulin  receptor 
autophosphorylation  and  single-cell  carrier-mediated  glucose  transport  and  lipogenesis,  although 
generally with a slight shift to the right of the dose-response curve. 
In vivo, insulin glulisine caused a slightly more pronounced hypoglycaemia than human insulin in rats 
and had an earlier onset of action in dogs. 
Secondary  pharmacodynamics  investigated  the  effects  on  IGF-1  and  mitogenic  activity.  The  results 
did not raise concern at the expected concentrations in human therapy 
The  safety  pharmacology  tests  investigated  the  effects  on  the  CVS  and  respiratory  system,  and  the 
results  did  not  raise  any  major  concern.  Because  of  close  similarity  between  insulin  glulisine  and 
9/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
human  insulin,  other  tests  for  adverse  pharmacodynamic  effects  on  other  vital  organs  were  not 
considerd necessary. 
It can be concluded that the general pharmacological profile of Insuline glulisine is favourable.  
Pharmacokinetics  
Pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  dogs  using  unlabelled  insulin  glulisine  or  drug 
substance  labelled  with  I125  in  the  tyrosine  residue  at  position  A14.  The  in-vitro  stability  of  insulin 
glulisine was determined in human and rat plasma. 
Hepatic  metabolism  and  biodegradation  pathways  were  not  investigated  on  the  grounds  that  insulin 
glulisine  differs  little  from  human  insulin  and  such  differences  do  not  involve  the  known  cleavage 
sites. 
The studies conducted were single dose only.  Information on the pharmacokinetics of insulin glulisine 
following  repeated  administration  was  obtained  from  toxicokinetic  investigations  conducted  during 
toxicology studies. 
Serum concentrations of insulin, including insulin glulisine and endogenous insulin, were determined 
by  a  RIA  method.  This  method  was  validated  with  regard  to  human,  rat  and  dog  serum.  The  cross-
reactivities  with  human  insulin,  rat  insulin  and  insulin  lispro  were  80.2%,  106.9%  and  75.7%, 
respectively.  Anti-insulin  glulisine  antibodies  were  determined  by  a  validated  semi-quantitative  125I-
insulin glulisine tracer test.  
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Insulin  glulisine  was  rapidly  and  completely  (rat)  or  well  (dog)  absorbed  following  subcutaneous 
administration to male animals, and has a short elimination half-life in all relevant species.  
The  absolute  bioavailability,  Tmax  and  T½  were  105%,  0.17  hours  and  0.35  hours  in  the  rat;  42%,  
1.0 hours and 1.1 hours in the dog; and 71%, 1.0 hours and 0.70 hours in healthy human volunteers. 
Dose-proportionality  and  accumulation  were  not  studied  formally  in  animals;  however,  in  the 
toxicokinetic  studies  discussed  below,  AUC  and  Cmax  generally  increased  with  dose  without  gender 
differences or cumulative effects.  
• 
Distribution 
Following  125  I-insulin  glulisine  administration  to  rats,  radioactivity  was  distributed  throughout  the 
body,  with  low  radioactivity  in  the  CNS.    The  highest  levels  of  radioactivity  were  found  at  the 
injection site, followed by the thyroid gland.  This study may be of uncertain value due to the rapid 
metabolism  or  degradation  of  the  radiolabelled  substance  in  the  rat.  Data  from  published  literature 
indicated a similar distribution pattern in rats after administration of  125 I human insulin by the same 
route. However, there  was a more rapid rate of  disappearance from  the  injection sites in  the  case of 
insulin glulisine. 
10/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
In vitro stability studies with insulin glulisine in human and rat plasma showed no degradation to des- 
(B1-B3)  insulin  glulisine,  which  would  result  from  cleavage  at  the  3B-Lys  modification.   
The Applicant assumed that the endogenous degradation of insulin glulisine is the same as for human 
insulin therefore no further metabolism studies were conducted. 
• 
Excretion 
The  excretion  of  125I-insulin  glulisine  was  investigated  in  rats.    After  a  single  subcutaneous 
administration, 87% and 8.9% of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine and faeces respectively.  
The excretion of TCA insoluble radioactivity suggested that almost all the radioactivity excreted in the 
urine was free 125 I or low molecular 125 I-labelled compounds. 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters  
Rats  and  dogs  were  the  main  species  used  to  investigate  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  insulin 
glulisine. Drug substance labelled with I125 in the tyrosine residue at position A14 and also unlabelled 
drug were used. 
Insuline  glulisine  showed  a  rapid  absorption  and  a  short  half-life  in  all  relevant  species.  It  is 
distributed throughout the body, with no major differences in the distribution of human insulin, except 
for a faster clearance of the former from the injection site. 
Endogenous degradation of insulin glulisine appears to be the same as for human insulin. 
Insuline  glulisine  is  mainly  excreted  in  the  urine,  showing  87%  of  the  radioactivity  after  single 
subcutaneous administration. 
Toxicology 
Insulin  glulisine  was  evaluated  for  single-dose  and  repeated-dose  toxicity;  toxicity  to  reproduction; 
genotoxicity; carcinogenic potential; antigenicity and for effects on the environment. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Studies were conducted in mice, rats and dogs  
Single dose toxicity was comparable for mice and rats after subcutaneous (s.c.) and intravenous (i.v) 
injection. Mortality and other abnormal findings were dose-related and consistent with the sequels of 
severe hypoglycaemia. Hypoglycaemia was verified by blood glucose measurement. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  using  the  intended  therapeutic  route,  that  is  the 
subcutaneous  route.    All  studies  used  normoglycaemic  animals  dosed  once  or  twice  daily  whereas 
insulin glulisine is administered three times daily to hypoglycaemic diabetic patients. 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted in rats and dogs for up to 12 and 6 months, respectively. 
The  12-month  rat  study  included  satellite  groups  treated  with  regular  human  insulin  as  a  reference 
drug. Toxicokinetics was included in the 1-month and the 6-month studies, and a 2-week study served 
to estimate exposure in the 12-month rat study. 
11/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signs  of  chronic  systemic  toxicity  were  due  to exaggerated pharmacodynamic effects and similar  to 
those  recorded  in  other  insulin  studies.  The  observed  effects,  and  the  deaths  at  high  dose  levels,  in 
non-diabetic  animals  are  not  considered  to  be  predictive  of  toxicity  in  diabetic  patients.  Four-week 
recovery  periods  were  included  in  the  6-month  rat  and  1-month dog study. In the rat study,  relative 
liver  weight  remained  marginally  decreased  in  high-dose  males.  All  other  findings  pertaining  to 
systemic toxicity were fully reversible in both species. 
Safety margins based on systemic exposure (AUC or Cmax) were at least 7 fold (dog) or 18 fold (rat) 
based on a human dose of 0.3 U/kg.  
Insulin antibody levels were determined during the course of both 6-month studies and at the end of 
the 12-month rat study. In rats, no antibodies to insulin glulisine were detected. 
In dogs, there was a slight transient increase in antibodies to insulin glulisine in 1/8 mid-dose and in 
2/10 high-dose animals, a marked and persistent increase in 1/7 mid-dose animals and a slight increase 
on day 176 but not on day 30 in 1/10 high-dose animals. These findings indicate that insulin glulisine 
is not immunogenic in rats, but elicits antibody formation in dogs. Given the sporadic occurrence of 
antibody formation in the dogs, it is unlikely to have confounded the toxicity studies in this species. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma and benign or malignant mammary gland tumours were found in the 
rat  studies.  Spontaneous  mammary  gland  tumours  are  common  in  aged  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and 
occurred in 3-17% of the applicant's historical controls. The incidence of such tumours in the insulin-
treated  groups  was  similar  to  the  historical  range.  The  incidence  of  malignant  fibrous  histiocytomas 
was 10% in the controls and was not significantly higher in any of the treatment groups. The controls 
were injected with insulin-free vehicle and practically all rats had pronounced chronic inflammatory 
lesions  at  the  injection  site.  Therefore,  these  tumours  were  attributed  to  the  irritant  effects  of  the 
vehicle, which was injected twice daily at the same site for 12 months.  
The  in  vitro  data  on  receptor  binding  and  on  mitogenicity  and  the  in  vitro  proliferation  studies  on 
mammary glands indicated a lack of mitogenic potential of insulin glulisine. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Insulin glulisine was tested for gene mutations in bacteria and for chromosome aberrations in vitro and 
in vivo. As expected, there was no evidence of genotoxic potential in any of these tests.  
• 
Carcinogenicity  
Conventional carcinogenicity studies are not warranted as neither the tumour findings in the 12-month 
rat  toxicity  study  nor  any  of  the  tests  for  insulin  and  IGF-1  receptor  binding,  genotoxicity,  in-vitro 
mitogenic  potency  or  in-vivo  proliferation  raise  concerns  about  the  carcinogenic  potential  of  insulin 
glulisine 
One-year study in rats was performed especially aimed at investigating the carcinogenic potential of 
insulin glulisine. The tumours detected were not considered to be treatment related. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
A  complete  reproduction  and  developmental  toxicity  programme  was  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits. 
The  results  of  these  studies  for  insulin  glulisine  were  similar  to  that  of  regular  human  insulin,  and 
there  were  no  indications  that  insulin  glulisine  had  any  adverse  effects  on  reproduction  and 
development over and above those caused by disruption of glucose homeostasis.  
12/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Local tolerance  
Local tolerance was investigated in a conventional test in rabbits in order to assess the tolerability of 
insulin  glulisine  after  single  subcutaneous  and  intravenous  injection,  the  routes  intended  for 
therapeutic use and after intramuscular and paravenous injection to reflect the consequences of faulty 
injections.  In  a  12-month  repeated  dose  study  in  rats,  subcutaneous  injections  of  insulin  glulisine 
produced severe inflammatory lesions and malignant fibrous histiocytomas at the injection site. 
In short, insulin glulisine showed to be well tolerated following i.v. and s.c. administration, whereas 
paravenous or i.m. injection resulted in moderate inflammatory and/or necrotic lesions. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Three  different  batches  of  insulin  glulisine  were  used  for  toxicity  studies.  The  contents  of  related 
impurities  and  high  molecular  weight  proteins  in  these  batches  were  higher  than  or  equal  to  the 
contents  in  active  substance  produced  by  the  commercial  production  process.  Therefore,  these 
impurities can be considered qualified.  
With  regard  to  the  environmental  risk  assessment  the  results  demonstrated  no  acute  toxic  effects  of 
insulin  glulisine  in  algae,  daphnia  and  fish.    A  ready  biodegradability  in  activated  sludge  was 
indicated. It can be concluded that insulin glulisine poses a negligible risk to the environment 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
Toxicology  studies  were  performed  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  rabbits.  High  single  doses  of  insulin 
glulisine appeared to cause death by hypoglycaemia. 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  dogs.  The  effects  observed  appeared  to  be 
exagerated pharmacodynamic effects, and were fully reversible in both species. Moreover, they are not 
considered  to  be  predictive  of  toxicity  in  diabetic  patients.  Acceptable  margins  of  exposure  were 
achieved in all repeat-dose toxicity studies. 
Appropriate  studies  showed  that  the  incidence  of  malignancies  in  any  of  the  treatment  groups 
compared to the controls was not significantly higher. 
There was a complete package of tests for toxicity to reproduction.  The toxicity of insulin glulisine 
was similar to that of human regular insulin. 
Local tolerability of insulin glulisine in rabbits following s.c. administration was good. 
The  experimental  data  indicated  that  the  therapeutic  use  of  insulin  glulisine  does  not  pose  an 
immediate concern to the environment. 
In  conclusion,  insulin  glulisine  has  undergone  sufficient  toxicity  testing  to  conclude  that  its  safety 
profile in experimental animals is very similar to that of regular human insulin, and the discussion has 
been appropriately reflected in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Apidra contains the active ingredient insulin glulisine, a recombinant human insulin analogue– which 
differs from human insulin by the replacement of asparagine in position B3 by lysine, and replacement 
of lysine at position B29 by glutamic acid.  It is produced by recombinant DNA technology in E-coli 
bacteria. 
Apidra  is  claimed  to  have  a  more  rapid  onset,  earlier  peak  effect  and  shorter  duration  of  effect.   
The  product  is  intended  for    “the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  diabetes  mellitus”.  The  applicant 
proposes the product to be used in conjunction with a basal long acting insulin. They also propose the 
product  to  be  used  with  oral  hypoglycaemic  agents  in  type  II  diabetics  and  it  may  be  mixed  in  the 
same syringe as NPH insulin.   
13/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apidra  is  proposed  for  administration  by  subcutaneous  injection  either  intermittently  or  by  a 
continuous infusion pump. 
The  Applicant  claims  that  all  clinical  studies  have  been  conducted  in  accordance  with  good  clinical 
practice (GCP), as required by the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) E6 Guideline for 
Good Clinical Practice, 1 May, 1996, in agreement with the Declaration of Helsinki.    
The  CHMP  have  previously  adopted  a  Guideline  concerning  the  clinical  development  of  medicinal 
products  for  diabetes  mellitus  (CPMP/EWP/1080/00).  The  clinical  aspects  of  this  application  have 
been discussed together with the requirements of this document. 
Scientific Advice to the CHMP was requested concerning clinical issues in 2000. The CHMP was of 
the  view  that  phase  II  dose  ranging  studies  were  not  warranted  for  this  product,  bearing  in  mind its 
pharmacodynamic  similarity  to  insulin  lispro  (Humalog)  –  but  the  CHMP  requested  that  its 
pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics should be adequately characterised in normal volunteers and 
in  type  I  and  type  II  diabetics  –  in  addition  to  information  on  the  ease  of  dose  titration.   
The CHMP also expressed concern that the data then available did not provide reassurance that insulin 
glulisine was equipotent with other insulins and a steady state infusion study was therefore requested.   
With respect to the adequacy of the phase III package, the CHMP agreed with the company that the  
2  pivotal  phase  III  studies  proposed  (in  type  I  and  type  II  diabetes  respectively)  together  with  their 
proposed  12  month  extensions  should  be  adequate  to  establish  the  efficacy  of  insulin  glulisine.  
However, the CHMP expressed some concern regarding the size of the database in relation to safety 
and immunogenicity – in particular the concern that these data were sufficient in scope to adequately 
assess  the  incidence  of  cross-reacting  antibodies  for  insulin  glulisine  compared  to  other  similar 
products and for an assessment of the clinical impact of the development of these antibodies. 
The CHMP agreed with the company that measurement of E-coli protein antibodies in the phase III 
trials would not be necessary, provided that the limit of these proteins did not exceed 10 ppm in any 
batch. 
The  adult  clinical  program  for  glulisine  consisted  of  14 clinical  pharmacology  studies  and 
4 international, completed, and controlled Phase III studies (3 active-controlled studies that evaluated 
the efficacy and safety of s.c. administered glulisine, plus 1 active-controlled safety study to support 
the  use  of  glulisine  administered  by  continuous  s.c.  insulin  infusion).  The  Phase III  efficacy  studies 
were specifically designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of glulisine in subjects with type 1 and 
type 2  diabetes,  and  also  to  evaluate  the  immediate  post-meal  dosing  of  glulisine.  A  total  of 
950 subjects  with  type 1  diabetes  and  435  subjects  with  type 2  diabetes  received  glulisine  in 
completed  Phase III  studies.  At  the  time  of  the  submission,  there  were  3 ongoing  or  completed/not 
reported  studies 
including  2 long-term  extension  studies. 
Approximately  180 subjects  had  been  exposed  to  1 year  of  glulisine  treatment  at  the  time  of  the 
submission.  
The  clinical  pharmacology  program  included  non-diabetic  subjects,  obese  non-diabetic  subjects, 
subjects  with  type 1  or  type  2  diabetes,  and  non-diabetic  subjects  with  varying  degrees  of  renal 
function.  An  additional  completed  clinical  pharmacology  study  evaluated  glulisine  in  paediatric 
subjects with type 1 diabetes.  
The total number of subjects exposed to glulisine was more than 1500.  
the  Phase III  adult  program, 
in 
Pharmacokinetics 
Fourteen  clinical  trials  are  presented  supporting  the  clinical  pharmacology  of  insulin  glulisine.   
In  these  trials  248  adults  received  more  than  one  dose.    These  individuals  comprised  195  non-
diabetics, and 53 diabetics (37 with type I diabetes and 16 with type II diabetes). 
14/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  studies  included  healthy  male  volunteers  of  Caucasian  and  Japanese  origins;  patients  suffering 
from  type  1  and  type  2  diabetes;  subjects  with  renal  impairment,  and  pediatric  patients  with  type  1 
diabetes.  
The  pharmacokinetic properties of glulisine are presented for the following trials totalling 248 adult 
subjects and 20 pediatric subjects who received glulisine: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Healthy subjects: Study 1001, 1002, 1003, 1004, 1009, 1010, 1011, 1012, 1013, 1016. 
Subjects with type 1 diabetes: Study 1005 and 1008. 
Subjects with type 2 diabetes: Study 1006. 
Special populations 
Children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes: Study 1017 
Subjects with renal impairment: Study 1011 
Japanese expatriates living in Europe: Study 1013  
Obese non-diabetic subjects: Study 1010 
A  human  insulin  radioimmunoassay  was  used  to  determine  insulin  glulisine  concentrations  in  trials 
1001,  1002  and  1003.  For  other  trials,  a  specific  RIA  for  glulisine  was  used.  Human  insulin  and 
insulin  lispro  concentrations  were  determined  using  an  human  insulin  radioimmunoassay.  C-peptide 
concentrations  were  measured  in  all  trials.  The  CHMP  considered  the  analytic  methods  used 
reasonably suitable for their purposes and well validated 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  have  been  studied  in  normal  volunteers,  (study  1009)  type  I  diabetics 
(study 1005) and type II diabetics (study 1006).   
In  these  studies,  a  comparator  with  a  similar  time-action  profile  has  been  employed  in  line  with the 
CHMP  Guideline  in  this  area.    The  data  presented  also  satisfy  the  terms  of  the  previous  CHMP 
Scientific Advice  where PK  data were stated to be required in healthy volunteers, and in type I and 
type II diabetics. 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
In study 1009, insulin glulisine was observed to be absorbed more rapidly than regular insulin (tmax 56 
min vs. 99 min).  The maximal concentration was 2 fold higher and the duration of action as assesssed 
by MRT shorter at 105 as opposed to 182–min.  Total AUC was 35% higher but this difference was 
not significant.  The parameters were similar to those obtained for insulin lispro. 
Similar findings were apparent in type I diabetics (study 1005) and in type II diabetics (1006). 
The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  absorption  of  glulisine  has  been  adequately  described  upon 
single-dose  s.c.  administration  in  healthy  volunteers  and  in  the  target  population.  The  influence  of 
various injection sites has been satisfactory documented 
• 
Bioequivalence 
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  insulin  glulisine  was  assessed  in  study  1004.    Compared  with  iv 
injection,  the  bioavailability  based  upon  AUC  was  as  follows  for  the  differing  anatomical  areas 
studied: 
Femoral area 
Deltoid area 
Abdominal area 
68% 
71% 
73% 
The  clinical  trial  report  from  study  recommends  that  the  abdominal  area  is  the  preferred  site  for 
injection and indeed this area has been used in the phase III studies. 
The SPC proposes however that all 3 sites may be used in practice.  The CHMP is of the view that, 
bearing  in  mind  the  slight  difference  in  bioavailability  across  the  sites,  this  is  acceptable.    The SPC 
15/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and PIL include the above data to inform prescribers and recipients of the variability associated with 
injection in differing anatomical sites.   
The  possible  influence  of  food  was  examined  in  Study  1008.  Subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  were 
administered glulisine at different times relative to a standard meal. The pharmacokinetic parameters 
of  glulisine  were  similar  and  comparable  to  those  in  healthy  subjects,  regardless  of  the  timing  of 
administration. 
Study  1005  provided  data  regarding  intra-subject  variability  in  type  I  diabetes.  Intra  individual 
variability  appeared  similar  with  insulin  glulisine  as  for  insulin  lispro  and  regular  human  insulin.  
Similar data are available in type II diabetics from Study 1006.   
• 
Distribution and elimination 
In  Study  1016,  the  distribution  of  glulisine  and  human  insulin  were  assessed  after  continuous  i.v. 
Infusions over 2h of 0.8mU.kg-1.min-1 . Distribution is similar with volumes of distribution of 13 l and 
22 l and half-lives of 13 and 18 minutes, respectively. 
Elimination of human insulin is rapid, and occurs by metabolic degradation and extraction by various 
tissues.  After  subcutaneous  administration,  insulin  glulisine  is  eliminated  more  rapidly  than  regular 
human  insulin  with  an  apparent  half-life  of  42  minutes  compared  to  86  minutes.  In  an  across  study 
analysis  of  insulin  glulisine  in  either  healthy  subjects  or  subjects  with  type  1  or  type  2  diabetes 
mellitus the apparent half-life ranged from 37 to 75 minutes (interquartile range). 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose normalised results for Cmax, AUC0-2hand AUC0-end calculated by the Applicant from a number of 
studies following doses of 0·1, 0·15, 0·2 and 0·3 U/kg  s.c. were found to be predictable, as expected. 
• 
Special populations 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of glulisine have been examined in a number of special populations: 
Subjects with renal impairment (Study 1011) 
There  were  only  minor  changes  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  glulisine  in  patients  suffering  from 
moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment.  These  changes  are  unlikely  to  be  of  clinical  relevance,  and 
dose  adjustments  should  only  be  made  according  to  clinical  effect.  The  SPC  states  however  that 
insulin requirements may be reduced in the presence of renal impairment. 
Children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes (Study 1017) 
The  only  data  available  in  children  and  adolescents  is  of  a  PD/PK  nature.  The  study  investigated 
children (7-11 years) and adolescents (12-16 years) with Type 1 diabetes. Insulin glulisine was rapidly 
absorbed in both age groups, with similar Tmax and Cmax as in adults. Administered immediately before 
a  test  meal,  insulin  glulisine  provided  better  postprandial  control  than  regular  human  insulin,  as  in 
adults.  The  glucose  excursion  (AUC0-6h)  was  641mg.h.dl-1  for  insulin  glulisine  and  801mg.h.dl-1  for 
regular human insulin. 
The data presented do not provide reassurance that insulin glulisine has the same effect in children and 
adolescents as regular insulin.  Further data is required in children to provide reassurance on this point, 
and efficacy safety data are also desirable. The SPC states that no adequate clinical information on the 
use of insulin glulisine in children and adolescents is available.   
The  applicant  intends  to  further  evaluate  efficacy  and  safety  of  insuline  glulisine  in  children  and 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
16/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects with hepatic impairment and elderly population 
No studies were performed in subjects suffering from hepatic impairment. The absence of this data is 
not  considered  to  be  a  bar  to  the  grant  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation,  however  the  SPC  states  that 
pharmacokinetic  properties  have  not  been  investigated  in  patients  with  impaired  liver  function.  
Very Limited pharmacokinetic data is available for elderly patients with diabetes mellitus. 
• 
Interaction studies 
No  clinical  studies  on  drug-drug  interactions  have  been  performed.  Based  on  empirical  knowledge 
from  similar  medicinal  products,  clinically  relevant  pharmacokinetic  drug-drug  interactions  are 
unlikely to occur 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Pharmacodynamics of glulisine was studied performed in part concomitantly with the pharmacokinetic 
studies. Euglycemic clamp technique was applied to assess the primary pharmacodynamic response to 
glulisine. 
The mechanism of action of glulisine is mediated by the same pathways that mediate the response to 
human  insulin.  The  biological  effects  of  human  insulin  are  mediated  via  the  insulin  receptor.  
The  receptor  binding  characteristics  of  glulisine  was  examined  in  a  number  of  in  vitro  studies.  
In  vitro,  glulisine  binding  to  the  insulin  and  IGF-I  receptors  is  slightly  lower  than  that  of  human 
insulin.  
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamically insulin glulisine appears generally equipotent to other short acting insulins such 
as insulin lispro and regular human insulin at low doses.  
The  primary  pharmacology  of  glulisine  has  been  reasonably  well  investigated.  The  results  are 
consistent across the populations investigated: insulin glulisine appears similar to insulin lispro in its 
pharmacodynamic effect, having a very rapid onset and short duration of action.  This effect is similar 
in  normal  individuals,  type  I  diabetes  type,  type  II diabetes, different racial groups studied  and lean 
and  obese  normal  individuals.  Postprandial  glycaemic  control  appears  similar  with  insulin  glulisine 
given  immediately  before  a  meal  as  with  regular  insulin  given  30  minutes  before  a  meal  and  when 
given  just  after  a  meal,  it  appears  to  perform  similarly  to  regular  insulin  given    2  minutes  before  a 
meal.  
No studies have specifically been conducted for the investigation of the secondary pharmacology of 
glulisine. 
Clinical efficacy  
The submitted data supporting the clinical efficacy of glulisine for the use in the treatment of type 1 as 
well  as  type  2  diabetes,  are  based  on  the  results  of  three randomized  active-controlled  open  studies 
(studies  3001,  3002  and  3004).  The  studies  utilized  a  common  core  protocol  that  standardized  most 
aspects of study design, inclusion/exclusion criteria, target BG values, primary and secondary efficacy 
variables, and safety variables. 
17/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  3001  was  a  26-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical  trial  comparing  glulisine  with  insulin  lispro  injected  subcutaneously  in  subjects  with  
type 1 diabetes mellitus also using insulin glargine. 
Study  3002  was  a  26-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical  trial  comparing  glulisine  with  regular  insulin  injected  subcutaneously  in  subjects  with  
type 2 diabetes mellitus also using NPH insulin. 
Studies 3001 and 3002 were followed by 26-week extension studies, 3011 and 3012 respectively, to 
assess long term safety of insulin glulisine. 
Study  3004  was  a  12-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical trial to assess noninferiority between pre- and postmeal administration of insulin glulisine and 
premeal regular human insulin in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus receiving insulin glargine as 
the basal insulin therapy. 
A  fourth  study,  Study 3006,  was  designed  to  support  the  claim  that  glulisine  may  be  safely 
administered  by  continuous  s.c.  insulin  infusion  (CSII)  via  an  external  insulin  pump  to  control 
hyperglycemia  in  patients  with  type  1  diabetes  mellitus.  This  study  was  not  powered  to  provide  a 
formal  demonstration  of  efficacy.  Phase  III  clinical  studies  were  performed  between  July  2001  and 
December 2002. 
Study 
3001* 
3002*  
3004 
3006 
Indication 
Type I diabetes 
Type II diabetes 
Post mealtime use (Type I diabetes) 
Continuous sc infusion using an external 
pump (Type I diabetes) 
* = pivotal trials 
• 
Dose response studies 
Dose-ranging  studies  were  not  conducted.  Based  on  the  similarity  of  the  glulisine  and insulin lispro 
time-action profiles, the fact that insulin dose titration must be conducted on a highly individualized 
patient-by-patient basis and that the lack of a requirement for these studies was confirmed by scientific 
advice from the CPMP, it is reasonable that these studies were not performed. 
• 
Main studies 
Efficacy data comes from the three mentioned phase III studies designed to evaluate the efficacy and 
safety  of  glulisine  compared  with  lispro  or  regular  insulin  in  adult  men  and  women  (greater  than 
18 years  of  age)  with  type 1  or  2  diabetes  (studies 3001,  3002,  and  3004).  The  studies  utilized  a 
common  core  protocol  that  standardized  most  aspects  of  study  design,  inclusion/exclusion  criteria, 
target BG values, primary and secondary efficacy variables, and safety variables. 
Efficacy  data  are  presented  separately  by  study:  pooling  of  data  for  efficacy  was  not  considered 
appropriate  due  to  differences  between  studies  in  basal  insulin  regimens,  active  comparator  insulin 
preparations,  type  of  DM,  and  the  recommended  timing  of  glulisine  administration  relative  to  meal 
intake.  
18/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pivotal study 3001 
Study  3001  was  a  26-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical  trial  comparing  glulisine  with  insulin  lispro  injected  subcutaneously  in  subjects  with  type 1 
diabetes mellitus also using insulin glargine. 
METHODS 
Study Participants 
A total of 772 subjects entered the screening phase. Of these, 683 were randomized and 672 received 
study  medication.  Subjects  were  men  or  women,  >18  years  of  age  with  established  type  1  diabetes 
(onset of diabetes < age of 40 and requirements of insulin therapy since diagnosis), BMI <35 kg/m2 
and  HbA1c  range  ≥6.0  to  ≤11.0%  and  >1  year  of  continuous  insulin  treatment  immediately  before 
study entry.  There were 339 subjects in the glulisine group and 333 lispro subjects randomized and 
treated. Of the 672 subjects treated, 23 subjects (10 glulisine; 13 lispro) were withdrawn after the start 
of treatment.  
Exclusion  criteria  included  active  proliferative  diabetic  retinopathy  or  other  unstable  retinopathy,  a 
history of non–hypoglycemia-related seizure disorders, impaired hepatic function (e.g., ALT or AST 
value  greater  than  2  ×  the  upper  limit  of  normal),  impaired  renal  function  (e.g.,  serum  creatinine  
>177  µmol/L),  previous  pancreatectomy,  or  clinically  relevant  cardiovascular,  hepatic,  neurologic, 
endocrine,  active  cancer,  or  other  major  systemic  disease  that  may  have  prevented  the  subject  from 
safely completing the study.   
Women  of  childbearing  potential  intending  to  become  pregnant  during  the  course  of  the  study,  and 
women  who  were  pregnant,  were  not  permitted  in  any  study.  Moreover,  women  of  childbearing 
potential were to use a reliable contraceptive measure throughout the studies.  
The ITT population was defined as all subjects randomized and treated, and consisted of 672 subjects. 
The PP population was defined as all ITT subjects excluding subjects with a major protocol violation. 
Major protocol violations occurred with 50 subjects. Subjects were included in the efficacy analyses if 
they  had  both  a  pretreatment  and  an  on-treatment  value  available  and  thus,  the  number  of  subjects 
included in the analyses for each variable varied.  
The  study  participants  were  recruited  from  different  centers  in  13  European  countries  and  South 
Africa 
Treatments 
injection  0 
Subjects  were  randomized  to  receive  either  Glulisine  or  Lispro.  Glulisine  or  lispro  were  dosed 
individually  as  appropriate  by  subcutaneous 
to  15  minutes  before  a  meal.  
The recommended anatomical area for s.c. injection was the abdomen. At endpoint,  85.5% of subjects 
were  injecting  their  short-acting  insulin  into  the  abdomen,  and  there  were  no  notable  differences 
between  treatments.  In  addition  to  the  rapid-acting  insulin,  insulin  glargine  was  provided  by  the 
sponsor, and was to be administered as the basal insulin once daily at bedtime. The dose of Glargine 
was to be titrated based on fasting BG with a goal of 5.0-6.7 mmol/l. The dose of Glulisine or Lispro 
was  to  be  titrated  to  achieve  a  goal  of  2  h  postprandial  BG  of  6.7-8.9  mmol/l  while  avoiding 
hypoglycemia.  The  treatment  was  not  blinded  because  of  incompatibility  of  the  Lispro  pen  and 
Aventis cartridges.  
Objectives 
Primary:  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  glulisine  compared  to  lispro  in  the  change  in  GHb  (total 
glycated  hemoglobin)  from  baseline  to  endpoint  and  to  compare  safety  (adverse  events,  clinical 
chemistry, lipids, hematology and insulin and E. coli antibodies) of insulin glulisine with insulin lispro 
in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
19/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary:  to  compare  glulisine  with  lispro  in  terms  of  changes  in  GHb  at  weeks  12  and 26, blood 
glucose  (BG)  parameters,  symptomatic  hypoglycemia,  insulin  doses,  and  treatment  satisfaction  in 
subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  data  were  the  GHb  values  at  baseline  and  endpoint.  Endpoint  is  defined  as  the 
subject’s last available measurement after start of treatment. 
Secondary  efficacy  data  includes  GHb  values  at  baseline  and  weeks  12  and  26;  self  monitored  BG 
(preprandial at breakfast, lunch, dinner; 2 hours postprandial after breakfast, lunch, dinner; at bedtime 
and  nocturnal);  dosage  of  both  rapid-acting  and  basal  insulin  at  baseline  and  weeks  12  and  26  and 
symptomatic hypoglycemia 
Quality  of  life/Satisfaction  with  treatment  was  assessed  using  the  Diabetes  Treatment  Satisfaction 
Questionnaire, status version (DTSQs) and the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire, change 
version (DTSQc). 
Sample size 
Sample  size  calculation  was  made  on  the  basis  of  the  primary  objective  of  demonstrating 
non.inferiority of glulisine to lispro. A sample size of 470 (235 in each group) was needed to ensure 
that  the  upper  confidence  limit  of  the  two-sided  95%  CI  for  the  adjusted  mean  difference  between 
groups  would  not  exceed  0.4%  GHb  with  90%  power  and  with  an  expected  treatment  difference  of 
0.1% GHb. The level of 0.4% GHb was chosen on the basis of previous programs of Novonorm where 
noninferiority  margin  of  0.6%  was  used  and  accepted.  No  definite  generally  accepted  margin  exist. 
However,  in  the  light  of  previsously  accepted  limits  in  these  types  of  studies,  the  margin  of  0.4% 
seems appropriate.  
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  randomized  to  treatment  and  began  their  randomized  study  treatment  regimen.  
For subjects randomized to glulisine, the starting dose of glulisine was to be the same as that of the 
short-acting  insulin  preparation  at  the  end  of  the  run-in  phase,  unless  a  change  in  dose  was 
necessitated  to  meet  target  BG  values  while  avoiding  hypoglycemia,  according  to  the  results  of  the  
7-point  SMBG  profile  performed  during  the  week  before  baseline.  Centralised,  computerized 
telephone randomization was used. Subjects were stratified based on whether or not they were treated 
with glargine or another basal insulin at visit 1. 
Blinding  
The study was not blinded. This can be considered as a weakness of the study, but necessary due to 
incompatibility  of the Lispro pen and Aventis cartridges. Furthermore,  considering the nature of the 
primary  endpoint,  the  unblinded  design  is  acceptable  and  in  line  with  the  design  of  previously 
accepted studies in this field. 
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis was the analysis of change in GHb from baseline to endpoint (primary efficacy 
variable) using the intent-to-treat (ITT) population, defined as all randomized subjects who received 
study treatment. The per protocol (PP) population, defined as a subset of the ITT population including 
all  randomized  and  treated  subjects  with  no  major  protocol  violations,  was  used  to  check  for  the 
consistency  of  the  analyses  made  using  the  ITT  population.  Both  the  ITT  and  PP  populations  were 
20/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
used  for  the  analyses  of  all  efficacy  variables.  Analyses  of  demographic  baseline  data  and  safety 
variables were conducted using the ITT population.  
The primary analysis assessed non-inferiority using the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval 
(CI)  for  the  difference  in  the  adjusted  mean  change  in  GHb  from  baseline  to  endpoint  which  was 
compared with the predefined non-inferiority margin of 0.4% GHb.  
Both  the  ITT  and  PP  populations  were  used  for  the  analyses  of  all  efficacy  variables.  Analyses  of 
demographic baseline data and safety variables were conducted using the ITT population. 
Noninferiority would be demonstrated if the upper bound of the CI was ≤0.4%. If non-inferiority was 
demonstrated, then a corresponding check of statistical superiority (i.e. that the upper bound of the CI 
is <0.0%) would be performed without an alpha penalty since this is a closed procedure. 
Continuous  variables  (e.g.  GHb)  were  analyzed  by  an  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  with 
treatment and (pooled) center as fixed effects and the baseline value of the variable as a covariate. The 
assumptions of the model such as parallelism were tested and the distribution of the residuals from the 
model was examined. To assess the comparability at baseline between treatments, continuous baseline 
variables were analyzed by an analysis of variance (ANOVA) with treatment and (pooled) center as 
fixed  effects.  As  this  study  was  stratified  at  randomization,  a  further  exploratory  analysis  of  the 
primary  efficacy  variable  was  performed  which  had  the  stratum  variable  (use  of  glargine  vs.  use  of 
other basal insulin at study entry) included in the model as an additional effect. 
Categorical  variables  (e.g.  frequency  of  hypoglycemic  events)  are  presented  by  frequency 
distributions. Treatment groups were compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by 
(pooled) center.   
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Assessed for Eligibility 
(n=772) 
Randomised (n=683) 
       Excluded (n=89) 
       Allocated to Glulisine  (n=342) 
       Received Glulisine (n=339.) 
       Did not receive Glulisine (n=3.) 
      Allocated to Lispro  (n=341) 
      Received Lispro (n=333.) 
      Did not receive Lispro (n=8.) 
          10 withdrawn 
             13 withdrawn 
Completers (n=329)  
        Completers (n=320) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
n
o
i
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
21/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 772 subjects entered the screening phase, of which 683 were randomized and 672 received 
study medication. There were 339 glulisine subjects and 333 lispro subjects randomized and treated. 
Of  the  672  subjects  treated,  23  subjects  (10  glulisine;  13  lispro)  were  withdrawn  after  the  start  of 
treatment.  The  ITT  population  was  defined  as  all  subjects  randomized  and  treated,  and  consisted  of 
672 subjects. 
Recruitment and conduct of the study 
Subjects with type 1 diabetes were recruited from centers in 13 European countries and South Africa. 
This  completed  Phase  III  efficacy  study  was  conducted  between  5  July  2001  to  5  August  2002.  
After  a  screening  and  4-week  run-in  phase,  during  which  all  subjects  received  glargine  as  the  basal 
insulin  and  lispro,  subjects  were  randomized  and  entered  a  26-week  treatment  phase.  Subjects  who 
completed the 26 weeks of treatment were intended to be enrolled in an extension study (Study 3011).   
Baseline data 
With  respect  to  most  baseline  data  the  two  groups  were  comparable  (ITT  populations).  Subjects 
randomized  to  glulisine  had  a  longer  time  since  diagnosis  of  diabetes,  and  a  longer  duration  of 
previous insulin therapy by approximately 2 years. These differences were statistically significant. The 
types of basal and short-acting insulin preparations at study entry were similar between treatments. 
Numbers analysed 
In the ITT population a total of 672 patients distributed on the glulisine group (N = 339) and the lispro 
group (N = 333) were analysed. In the PP population 622 patients distributed on the glulisine group (N 
= 315) and the lispro group (N = 307). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy variable: change from baseline to endpoint in GHb: 
22/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population/ 
Timepoint 
ITT population (N=653) 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Mean change from baseline at 
endpoint 
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
PP population (N=622) 
Lispro  
Glulisine  
N  Mean a  N  Mean a  Difference 
in adjusted 
mean 
Glulisine – lispro  
95% CI 
p-
value 
331 
331 
331 
7.60  
7.46 
–0.14 
7.58  
322 
322 
7.45 
322  –0.13 
331 
–0.14  
322  –0.14  
0.00 
(–0.090.10)  0.9329 
315 
315 
315 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Mean change from baseline at 
endpoint 
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
a Adjusted means and differences from ANCOVA model. P-values from a 2-sided test for difference. 
7.58  
307 
307 
7.45 
307  –0.13 
7.58  
7.44 
–0.14 
307  –0.15  
–0.14  
0.01 
315 
(–0.09; 0.11)  0.8591 
It appears from the table that treatment groups had similar GHb levels at baseline. The two groups in 
the ITT as well as the PP population showed a similar reduction in mean GHb over the course of the 
study, with an adjusted mean change from baseline at endpoint of –0.14% in both groups in the ITT 
population and -0.14% in the glulisine group and –0.15% in the lispro group in the PP population.  
Because noninferiority was demonstrated, a corresponding check of statistical superiority (i.e. that the 
upper bound of the CI is <0.0%) was performed. Based on this analysis, glulisine was not found to be 
superior to lispro because the upper bound of the 95% CI was above zero for the ITT population as 
well as the PP population.  
With  regard  to  GHb  over  time,  the  comparison  between  treatments  for  the  change  from  baseline  to 
each visit was consistent with the results of the primary analysis at endpoint in both the ITT and PP 
populations. 
Overall,  SMBG  profiles  were  similar  in  both  treatment  groups  at  baseline  and  throughout  the 
treatment period for preprandial or postprandial, bedtime, and nocturnal SMBG levels.  
In the initial part of the study, subjects in the glulisine group displayed a higher frequency and rate of 
all  symptomatic  hypoglycemia.  These  differences  diminished  towards  the  latter  part  of  the  study. 
From month 4 to treatment end, the frequency and rate of all categories of symptomatic hypoglycemia 
were similar between treatments. 
Pivotal study 3002 
Study  3002  was  a  26-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical trial comparing glulisine with regular insulin injected subcutaneously in subjects with type 2 
diabetes mellitus also using NPH insulin. 
23/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
A total of 1186 subjects entered the screening phase. Of these 878 was randomized and 876 received 
study  medication.  Subjects  were  men  or  women,  >18  years  of  age  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  as 
established  in  the  medical  history  and  not  requiring  continuous  insulin  therapy  since  diagnosis  and  
>6 months of continuous insulin treatment immediately before study entry. 
The ITT population was defined as all subjects randomized and treated, and consisted of 876 subjects. 
The PP population was defined as all ITT subjects excluding subjects with a major protocol violation. 
Major protocol violations occurred with 178 subjects.  
Subjects  were  included  in  the  efficacy  analyses  if  they  had both a pretreatment and an on-treatment 
value available and thus, the number of subjects included in the analyses for each variable varied.  
Exclusion criteria were  identical  to study 3001.  The study  participants were recruited from different 
centers in North America and Australia 
Treatments 
Subjects  were  randomized  to  receive  either  glulisine  or  regular  insulin.  Glulisine  or  regular  insulin, 
individually dosed as appropriate by s.c. injection. Glulisine was to be injected 0 to 15 minutes prior to 
the  meal  and  regular  insulin  30 to  45  minutes  prior  to  the  meal. The  short acting insulins should be 
administered  before  at  least  two  meals  a  day  (breakfast  and  dinner).  The  recommended  anatomical 
area  for  s.c.  injection  was  the  abdomen.  At  endpoint  95.0%  were  injecting  their  short-acting  insulin 
into the abdomen, and there were no notable differences between treatments. 
Glulisine  or  regular  insulin  were  to  be  taken  in  combination  with  NPH  insulin  twice  daily 
(individually titrated by s.c. injection) as part of a basal/bolus insulin regimen. 
Subjects  were  allowed  to  mix  their  short-acting  insulin  with  NPH  immediately  prior  to  injection  
(i.e. not later than 2 minutes before  injection) and  allowed to continue on oral hypoglycemic agents 
(OHA) during the treatment phase. 
Objectives 
Primary: to demonstrate noninferiority of glulisine compared to regular insulin in the change in GHb 
from baseline to endpoint and to compare safety (in terms of adverse events, clinical chemistry, lipids, 
hematology,  insulin  antibodies  and  E.  coli  protein  antibodies)  of  glulisine  with  regular  insulin  in 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Secondary:  to  compare  glulisine  with  regular  insulin  in  terms  of  changes  in  GHb  from  baseline  to 
weeks 12 and 26, self-monitored blood glucose (BG) parameters, laboratory-measured fasting plasma 
glucose (FPG) and postmeal plasma measurements made in association with the in-clinic test meal at 
endpoint, symptomatic hypoglycemia, insulin doses and Treatment Satisfaction in subjects with type 2 
diabetes. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
As in study 3001 the primary efficacy data was GHb values recorded at baseline and at endpoint for 
each  subject.  The  primary  efficacy  measure  was  the  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  the  blood 
level of GHb.  
Secondary  efficacy  data  includes  GHb  values  at  baseline  and  weeks  12  and  26;  SMBG  profiles 
recorded using home BG monitors (preprandial at breakfast, lunch, dinner; 2 hours postprandial after 
breakfast, lunch, dinner; and at bedtime); in-clinic FPG and plasma glucose at 1 hour and 2 hours after 
a  test  meal  at  the  endpoint  visit;  symptomatic  hypoglycemia;  dosage  of  both  short-acting  and  basal 
insulin  preparations  at  baseline  and  weeks  12  and  26  and  endpoint  and  quality  of  life  using  the 
Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire status. 
24/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
Sample  size  calculation  was  made  on  the  basis  of  the  primary  objective  of  demonstrating 
noninferiority of glulisine to regular insulin. A sample size of 676 (338 in each group) was needed to 
ensure  that  the  upper  confidence  limit  of  the  two-sided  95%  CI  for  the  adjusted  mean  difference 
between  groups  would  not  exceed  0.4%  GHb  with  90%  power  and  with  an  expected  treatment 
difference  of  0.1%  GHb.  With  an  expected  rate  of  20%  of  subjects  not  evaluable  due  to  early 
withdrawal  or  protocol  violation,  it  was  thus  planned  to  randomise  423  subjects  in  each  treatment 
groups.  
Randomisation 
After  the  run-in  phase,  in  which  subjects  received  the  same  standard  regimens  of  basal  and  short 
acting insulin preparations, eligibility for entry into the study was confirmed and subjects were to be 
randomized to study treatment as soon as possible after reaching the end of the 4-week run-in phase, 
irrespective  of  whether  they  had  met  target  BG  values.  Centralised  computerized  telephone 
randomization was used. 
Blinding  
As for study 3001, the study was not blinded. 
Statistical methods 
Statistical methods used are similar to those for Study 3001. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
25/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessed for Eligibility 
(n=1186) 
Randomised (n=878) 
       Excluded (n=308) 
       Allocated to Glulisine  (n=437) 
       Received Glulisine (n=435.) 
       Did not receive Glulisine (n=2) 
  Allocated to Regular insuline  (n=441) 
  Received Regular insuline  (n=441) 
  Did not receive Regular insuline  (n=0) 
          28 withdrawn 
             36 withdrawn 
      Completers (n=407)  
        Completers (n=405) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
n
o
i
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
A total of 1186 subjects entered the screening phase, of which 878 were randomized and 876 received 
study  medication.  There  were  437  glulisine  subjects  and  441  subjects  in  the  regular  insulin  group 
randomized and treated. Of the 876 subjects treated, 64 subjects (28 glulisine; 36 regular insulin) were 
withdrawn after the start of treatment. The ITT population was defined as all subjects randomized and 
treated, and consisted of 876 subjects. 
Recruitment and conduct of the study 
The  study  was  a  multinational,  multicenter  study  carried  out  from  2  July  2001  to  last  patient  out:  
18  October  2002.  Subjects  with  type  2  diabetes  were  recruited  from  centers  in  North  America  and 
Australia. After a screening and 4-week run-in phase, during which all subjects received NPH insulin 
as  the  basal  insulin  and  regular  insulin  as  the  short-acting  insulin,  subjects  were  randomized  and 
entered a 26-week treatment phase. Subjects who completed the 26 weeks of treatment were intended 
to be enrolled in a safety extension study (Study 3012) 
Baseline data 
With respect to most baseline data the two groups were comparable (ITT populations).  
The  types  of  basal  and  short-acting  insulin  preparations  at  study  entry  were  similar  between 
treatments. 
Numbers analysed 
In  the  ITT  population  a  total  of  876  patients  distributed  on  the  glulisine  group  (N  =  435)  and  the 
regular  insulin group (N = 441) were analysed. In the PP population 798 patients distributed on the 
26/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glulisine group (N = 342) and the regular insulin group (N = 356). Thes numbers exceed the calculated 
number of subjects needed to demonstrate non-inferiority of glulisine to regular insulin. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy variable: change from baseline to endpoint in GHb: 
Population/ 
Timepoint 
ITT population (N=807) 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Mean change from baseline at 
endpoint  
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
PP population (N=698) 
Glulisine 
Regular insulin 
Glulisine – regular  
N  Mean a  N  Mean a  
Difference 
in adjusted 
mean 
95% CI 
p-value 
b  
404 
404 
404 
7.57  
7.11 
–0.46 
403 
403 
403 
7.50 
7.22 
–0.29 
404 
–0.46  
403 
–0.30  
–0.16 
(–0.26; –
0.05) 
0.0029
342 
342 
342 
7.53  
7.09 
–0.44 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Mean change from baseline at 
endpoint  
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
a Adjusted means from ANCOVA model (ANOVA at baseline).  
b P-values from a 2-sided test for difference. 
356 
356 
356 
–0.44  
7.47  
7.22 
–0.25 
–0.28  
342 
356 
–0.16 
(–0.27; –
0.05) 
0.0049
It appears from the table that treatment groups had similar GHb levels at baseline and both treatment 
groups in the ITT population showed reductions in mean GHb over the course of the study, with an 
adjusted mean change  from baseline at endpoint of -0.46% in the glulisine group and -0.30% in the 
regular  insulin  group.  There  were  similar  reductions  in  GHb  levels  in  the  PP population  in  both 
treatment groups.  
Based  on  the  predefined  non-inferiority  margin  of  0.4%,  the  non-inferiority  of  glulisine  compared 
with  regular  insulin  was  shown  by  the  fact  that  the  upper  bound  of  the  95% CI  was  below  0.4%.  
The  upper  limit  of  the  95%  CI  was  below  zero  (-0.05%),  which  established  statistical  superiority 
(p=0.0029,  ITT  population).  The  results  of  the  PP  analyses  confirmed  these  findings.  Although 
statistical  superiority  was  demonstrated  it  is  questioned  whether  this  absolute  difference  between 
treatment groups is of clinically relevance. 
With regard to secondary parameters, short-acting and basal insulin doses were comparable between 
treatments at baseline. At endpoint, subjects treated with glulisine had significantly lower BG values 
at 2-hour postprandial breakfast and dinner than did those treated with regular insulin 
No  consistent  differences  between  treatments  with  respect  to  blood  glucose  excursions  and  blood 
glucose variability were found. 
Plasma glucose levels during the in clinic test meal were lower in the glulisine group compared with 
the  regular  insulin  group.  However,  because  this  test  was  not  performed  at  baseline  a  proper 
evaluation is not possible. 
The rate of hypoglycemia decreased during the course of the study to a similar extent in both treatment 
groups. 
27/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pivotal study 3004 
Study  3004  was  a  12-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical trial to assess noninferiority between pre- and postmeal administration of insulin glulisine and 
premeal regular human insulin in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus receiving insulin glargine as 
the basal insulin therapy. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
A total of 1138 subjects entered the screening phase. Of these 866 were randomized and 860 received 
study  medication.  Subjects  were  of  similar  characteristics  to  those  in  study  3001.  There  were  
286  subjects  in  the  premeal  glulisine  group,  296  postmeal  glulisine  and  278  regular insulin subjects 
randomized  and  treated.  Of  the  860  subjects  treated,  63  subjects  were  withdrawn  after  the  start  of 
treatment (19 premeal insulin glulisine subjects, 18 postmeal insulin glulisine subjects and 26 regular 
insulin subjects).  
Exclusion criteria was similar to study 3001. 
The ITT population was defined as all subjects randomized and treated, and consisted of 860 subjects. 
The PP population was defined as all ITT subjects excluding subjects with a major protocol violation.  
Major protocol violations occurred with 116 subjects. Subjects were included in the efficacy analyses 
if they had both a pretreatment and an on-treatment value available and thus, the number of subjects 
included in the analyses for each variable varied. 
Treatments 
Subjects were randomized to receive Insulin glulisine or regular human insulin, individually dosed as 
appropriate by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection. Glulisine was to be injected either 0 to 15 minutes prior 
to  the  meal  or  whichever  of  the  following  occurred  first:  immediately  after  completing  a  meal  or  
20 minutes after starting a meal. Regular insulin was to be injected 30 to 45 minutes prior to the meal. 
Glulisine or regular insulin were not to be mixed with insulin glargine. 
Either glulisine or regular insulin was to be taken in combination with insulin glargine once daily at 
bedtime as the basal insulin.  
The dose of Glargine was to be titrated based on fasting BG with a goal of 5.0-6.7 mmol/l. The dose of 
Glulisine or Lispro was to be titrated to achieve a goal of 2 h postprandial BG of 6.7- 8.9 mmol/l while 
avoiding hypoglycemia. 
Objectives 
Primary:  to  evaluate  noninferiority  of  premeal  glulisine  or  postmeal  glulisine  compared  to  premeal 
regular insulin and postmeal glulisine compared to premeal glulisine in terms of change in GHb from 
baseline to endpoint and safety (in terms of adverse events, clinical chemistry, lipids and hematology) 
in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
Secondary: to assess changes in GHb at weeks 8 and 12, BG parameters, symptomatic hypoglycemia, 
and insulin doses in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus administered premeal glulisine or postmeal 
glulisine or premeal regular insulin 
Outcomes/endpoints 
As  in  study  3001  and  3002  the  primary  efficacy  data  was  GHb  values  recorded  at  baseline  and  at 
endpoint for each subject. The primary efficacy measure was the change from baseline to endpoint in 
the blood level of GHb. 
28/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary  efficacy  data  includes  GHb  values  at  baseline  and  weeks  8  and  12;  SMBG  profiles 
recorded using home BG monitors (reprandial glucose and 2-hour postprandial glucose values as well 
as bedtime glucose values at baseline and weeks 8 and 12 and endpoint) Dosage of short-acting and 
basal insulins at baseline and weeks 8 and 12 and endpoint, and reports of symptomatic hypoglycemia 
from the time of informed consent to the end of the treatment phase. 
Sample size 
Sample  size  calculation  was  made  on  the  basis  of  the  primary  objective  of  demonstrating 
noninferiority  of  premeal  glulisine  or  postmeal  glulisine  to  premeal  regular  insulin  and  postmeal 
glulisine to premeal glulisine. A sample size of 744 (248 in each group) was needed to ensure that the 
upper confidence limit of the two-sided 98.33% CI (type I error adjusted for multiplicity =0.008) for 
the adjusted mean difference between groups would not exceed 0.4% GHb with 90% power and with 
an expected treatment difference of 0.1% GHb. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation and stratification was done as for previous pivotal studies. In this case, two schedules 
were used: subjects prior on glargine and subjects who were not.  
Blinding  
As  for  studies  3001  and  3002,  the  study  was  not  blinded.  The  objective  of  this  study,  premeal 
compared to postmeal glulisin, makes a blinding design impossible. 
Statistical methods 
The  3  primary  comparisons  performed  in  this  study  were  premeal  glulisine  compared  to  regular 
insulin,  postmeal  glulisine  compared  to  regular  insulin,  and  postmeal  glulisine  compared to premeal 
glulisine. The primary analysis was the analysis of change in GHb from baseline to endpoint (primary 
efficacy variable) using the ITT population. The PP population was used to check for the consistency 
of  the  analyses  made  using  the  ITT  population.  Both  the  ITT  and  PP  populations were  used for the 
analyses  of  all  efficacy  variables.  Analyses  of  demographic  baseline  data  and  safety  variables  were 
conducted using the ITT population.  
The primary analysis assessed noninferiority using the upper bound of the 98.33% confidence interval 
(CI)  for  the  difference  in  the  adjusted  mean  change  in  GHb  from  baseline  to  endpoint  which  was 
compared with the predefined noninferiority margin of 0.4% GHb. 
 Noninferiority would be demonstrated if the upper bound of the CI was ≤0.4% If noninferiority were 
demonstrated, then a corresponding check of statistical superiority (i.e. that the upper bound of the CI 
is <0.0%) would be performed without an alpha penalty since this is a closed procedure. 
Continuous  variables  (e.g.  GHb)  were  analyzed  by  an  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  with 
treatment and (pooled) center as fixed effects and the baseline value of the variable as a covariate. The 
assumptions of the model such as parallelism was tested and the distribution of the residuals from the 
model was examined. To assess the comparability at baseline between treatments, continuous baseline 
variables were analyzed by an analysis of variance (ANOVA) with treatment and (pooled) center as 
fixed  effects.  As  this  study  was  stratified  at  randomization,  a  further  exploratory  analysis  of  the 
primary  efficacy  variable  was  performed  which  had  the  stratum  variable  (use  of  glargine  vs.  use  of 
other basal insulin at study entry) included in the model as an additional effect. 
Categorical  variables  (e.g.  frequency  of  hypoglycemic  events)  are  presented  by  frequency 
distributions. Treatment groups were compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by 
(pooled) center.   
29/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=1138) 
   Randomised (n=866) 
       Excluded (n=272) 
Allocated to premeal Glulisin  (n=286) 
Received premeal Glulisin  (n=286) 
Did not receive premeal Glulisin (n=0) 
Allocated to postmeal Glulisin  (n=296) 
Received postmeal Glulisin  (n=296) 
Did not receive postmeal Glulisin  (n=0) 
Allocated to regular Insuline  (n=284) 
Received regular Insuline  (n=278) 
Did not receive regular Insuline  (n=6) 
          19 withdrawn 
         18 withdrawn 
            26 withdrawn 
Completers (n=267)  
       Completers (n=278) 
           Completerr (n=252) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
n
o
i
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
A total of 1138 subjects entered the screening phase, of which 866 were randomized and 860 received 
study medication. There were 286 premeal glulisine subjects, 296 postmeal glulisine and 278 regular 
insulin subjects randomized and treated. Of the 860 subjects treated, 63 subjects (19 premeal glulisine; 
18 postmeal and 26 regular insulin) were withdrawn after the start of treatment. The ITT population 
was defined as all subjects randomized and treated, and consisted of 860 subjects. 
Recruitment and conduct of the study 
The  study  was  a  multinational,  multicenter,  open,  controlled  parallel  group  1:1:1  study  carried  out 
from  25  september  2001  to  last  patient  out:  6  september  2002.  Subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  were 
recruited from 94 centers in US (65 sites), Canada (16 sites) and Australia (13 sites). After a screening 
and 4-week run-in phase, during which all subjects received glargine as the basal insulin and regular 
insulin as the short-acting insulin, subjects were randomized and entered a 12-week treatment phase. 
30/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Baseline data 
In general baseline data were fairly balanced across the three treatment groups. 
Numbers analysed 
In  the  ITT  population  a  total  of  860  patients  distributed  on  the  premeal  glulisine  group  (N  =  286), 
postmeal  glulisine  group  (N=296)  and  the  regular  insulin  group  (N=  278)  were  analysed.  In  the  PP 
population 741 patients distributed on the premeal glulisine group (N = 249), postmeal glulisine group 
(N=260) and the regular insulin group (N= 232) were analysed. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy variable: Change from baseline to endpoint in GHb: (ITT population) 
Treatment 
Premeal
glulisine 
Postmeal 
glulisine 
Regular 
insulin 
Difference a 
(N=268) 
(N=276) 
(N=257)  Adjusted 
mean 
98.33% 
CI 
p-value
Postmeal glulisine vs. 
regular 
Mean baseline 
Mean endpoint 
Mean change from baseline 
at endpoint 
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
Premeal glulisine vs. 
regular 
Mean baseline 
Mean endpoint 
Mean change from baseline 
at endpoint 
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
7.73  
7.46 
–0.27 
–0.26  
7.70 
7.58 
–0.12 
7.64  
7.52 
–0.12 
–0.11  
–0.13  
0.02 
(–0.11; 
0.16) 
0.6698 
7.64  
7.52 
–0.12 
–0.13  
–0.13 
(–0.26; 
0.01) 
0.0234 
Postmeal vs. premeal 
glulisine 
Mean baseline 
Mean endpoint 
Mean change from baseline 
at endpoint 
Adjusted mean change from 
baseline at endpoint 
a Adjusted means from ANCOVA model. P-values from a 2-sided test for difference. 
7.73  
7.46 
–0.27 
7.70 
7.58 
–0.12 
–0.11  
–0.26  
0.15 
(0.02; 
0.29) 
0.0062 
31/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At baseline subjects in all treatment groups had similar GHb levels.  
All treatment groups in the ITT population showed statistically significant within-group reduction in 
mean GHb over the course of the study, with an adjusted mean change from baseline at endpoint of 
-0.26%  in  the  premeal  glulisine  group,  –0.11%  in  the  postmeal  glulisine  group,  and  -0.13%  in  the 
regular insulin group 
Postmeal vs regular. During the study reductions in GHb were similar for the postmeal glulisine group 
compared to regular insulin group (mean difference.0.02%, 98.33% CI=[-0.11%, 0.16%], p=0.6698). 
Postmeal vs. premeal. There was a smaller observed reduction in GHb for the postmeal glulisine group 
compared with the premeal glulisine group (mean difference 0.15%, [0.02%, 0.29%], p=0.0062, after 
adjustment for multiplicity. 
Premeal  vs.  regular.  There  was  a  larger  observed  reduction  in  GHb  for  the  premeal  glulisine  group 
compared with the regular insulin group (mean difference –0.13%, [-0.26%; 0.01%]; p=0.0234, which 
was not statistically significant after adjustment for multiplicity). 
With  regard to secondary endpoints, a the  decrease  in mean GHb levels in all treatment groups was 
achieved by week 8, with the most pronounced decrease being in the premeal glulisine group. 
At endpoint, there was a similar decrease in the adjusted mean short-acting insulin dose in the premeal 
glulisine  (–0.88  U)  and  postmeal  glulisine  groups  (–0.47  U,  p=0.5451;  ITT  population).  
In contrast, the regular insulin dose increased at endpoint by an adjusted mean of +1.75 IU. 
The total daily insulin dose remained at approximately baseline levels in the premeal glulisine group 
(adjusted  mean  change  at  endpoint:  +0.04  U)  and  postmeal  glulisine  group  (adjusted  mean  change: 
-0.22 U) (ITT population). In contrast, the total insulin dose increased from baseline to endpoint by an 
adjusted mean of +2.35 IU in the regular insulin group (p=0.0014 compared with postmeal glulisine; 
p=0.0042 compared with premeal glulisine). Findings were similar in the PP population.  
 Throughout the treatment phase, the premeal glulisine BG values were statistically significantly lower 
than those in the postmeal glulisine or regular insulin groups for the 2-hour post-breakfast and 2-hour 
post-dinner  measurement.  Otherwise  the  SMBG  profiles  were  similar  in  all  treatment  groups  during 
the study. 
Overall,  there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  treatments  in  the  rate  of  any 
category of symptomatic hypoglycemia during any phase or time period throughout the study. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy of glulisine in the treatment of DM was shown in adult subjects with type 1 and type 2 DM, 
in  basal-bolus  regimens  using  either  glargine  or  NPH  as  the  basal  insulin  and  in  type  2  diabetics  in 
combination with OHA treatment.  
In  all  three  pivotal  studies  glulisine  was  shown  to  be  non-inferior  to  either  insulin  lispro  (3001)  or 
regular insulin (3002 and 3004) in terms of glycemic control, i.e. change in total glycated hemoglobin 
(GHb)  from  baseline  to  endpoint.  In  study  3001(type  1  diabetics)  Glulisine  demonstrates  similar 
efficacy in terms of change in GHb and self-monitored BG values from 7-point profiles, compared to 
lispro without requiring an increase in basal or total daily insulin dose, which was seen in the lispro 
group. 
In study 3002 in subjects with type 2 diabetes statistical superiority of glulisine to regular insulin was 
shown. Glulisine treated subjects had a larger reduction in the adjusted mean change from baseline to 
endpoint in GHb (-0.46%) than did those subjects treated with regular insulin (-0.30%). Although this 
reduction  was  statistical  significant,  it  is  questioned  whether  the  absolute  difference  of  0.16%  GHb 
between groups is of clinically relevance 
Furthermore, subjects treated with glulisine had lower BG values at all times during the 7-point self-
monitored  BG  profiles  at  endpoint  than  did  those  treated  with  regular  insulin,  with  the  2-hour 
postprandial  breakfast  and  dinner  differences  reaching  statistical  significance.  A  statistically 
significantly  lower  FPG  as  well  as  1-hour  and  2-hour  postprandial  plasma  glucose  measured  during 
the in-clinic test meal were also observed in the glulisine group. 
32/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  improved  glycemic  control  in  glulisine  subjects  was  not  associated  with  an  increase  in  insulin 
dose  as  basal,  short-acting  and  total  daily  insulin  doses  displayed  similar  increases  from  baseline  in 
both  treatment  groups.  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  two  treatment 
groups in any of these insulin dose changes or in the number of injections of short-acting insulin per 
day. Finally no noteworthy differences in the reporting of all categories of symptomatic hypoglycemia 
were noted between the treatment groups. 
In  the  study  3004  in  type  1  diabetics  postmeal  administration  of  Glulisine  was  shown  to  be  non-
inferior to premeal administrered glulisine in terms of changes from baseline to endpoint in GHb. Both 
regimens was shown to be non-inferior to regular insulin administered 30 to 45 minutes before a meal. 
Throughout the treatment phase the premeal glulisine BG profile values were consistently lower than 
the  postmeal  glulisine  or  the  regular  insulin  groups  for  the  2-hour  post-breakfast  and  2-hour  post-
dinner measurements and these differences between the treatment groups were statistically significant.  
Regarding insulin dose the total daily insulin dose remained near baseline levels in both the premeal 
glulisine  group  and  postmeal  glulisine  group  but  increased  by  an  adjusted  mean  of  2.35  IU  in  the 
regular insulin group.   
The efficacy of glulisine appears to be maintained irrespective of BMI, age, sex, race, baseline degree 
of glycemic control, or in the absence or presence of concomitant OHAs.  
In conclusion the applicant have submitted data that demonstrates evidence of efficacy for the use of 
glulisine in type 1 as well as type 2 diabetes patients and data clearly demonstrates non-inferiority of 
glulisine to other short acting insulins on the market.   
Clinical safety 
Safety  parameters  are  mainly  based  on  four completed  active-controlled  studies  in  the  Phase III 
clinical  program  for  glulisine,  each  conducted  in  adult  patients  with  type 1  (study  3001,  3004  and 
3006)  or  2  (study  3002)  diabetes.  These  studies  were  performed  between  July  2001  and  December 
2002. 
Study  3006  was  a  12-week,  multinational,  multicenter,  controlled,  open,  1:1  randomized,  parallel 
clinical  trial  comparing  the  safety  of  insulin  glulisine  and  insulin  aspart  used  in  continuous 
subcutaneous  insulin  infusion  (CSII)  in  subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  mellitus.  The  rationale  for 
performing Study 3006 was to support the claim that glulisine may be safely administered by CSII via 
an  external  pump  to  control  hyperglycemia  in  patients  with  type 1  DM.  Because  this  study  was 
designed to assess if the physicochemical properties of glulisine were compatible with pump use, and 
not  to  formally  demonstrate  efficacy,  a  limited  number  of  subjects  was  studied:  29 glulisine  and 
30 aspart.  
The  safety-evaluable  population  was  all  subjects  enrolled,  who  received  at  least  one dose  of  study 
treatment, and with information in the database after the entry visit. 
• 
Patient exposure 
The  total  safety  database  comprises  2715  patients  from  a  total  of  18  clinical  trials.    Of  these  1617 
received insulin glulisine and 1295 received a comparator insulin product. 
728 adults with type I diabetes received the product for a period of > 12 weeks and 416 patients with 
type II diabetes received it for at least a similar time period.   
• 
Adverse events  
Data concerning adverse events is available from the pooled clinical pharmacology studies, where, in 
general, patients received one or a maximum of 2 doses of test medication and also from the phase III 
studies in type I diabetes (3001, 3004 and 3006) and in type II diabetes (3002). 
In clinical pharmacology studies, the commonest reported adverse events in the glulisine group were 
headache (14.5%), hypoglycaemia (2.8%) nausea (1.6%) and vomiting 1.2%.  Similar frequencies of 
these  events  were  observed  with  comparator  medications.    Overall,  23.8%  of  subjects  treated  with 
insulin glulisine suffered an adverse event in the clinical pharmacology trials compared with 21.6% of 
those who received a comparator. 
33/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Over  all  pooled  phase  III  studies,  69.4%  of  subjects  in  both  the  glulisine  and  pooled  comparator 
groups experienced 1 or more treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) 
Phase III studies (Type I diabetes) 
The  comparators  used  against  insulin  glulisine  in  these  studies  were  insulin  lispro  in  study  3001, 
regular insulin in study 3004 and insulin aspart in 3006.   
The commonest reported adverse events in insulin glulisine treated patients were: 
Nasopharyngitis 
Hypoglycaemia 
Upper Respiratory Infection  
Influenza 
Hypoglycaemic Coma  
Pharyngitis 
Headache 
Sinusitis 
The frequency of these events was similar in insulin glulisine and comparator treatments both in terms 
of frequency and quality.   
9.9% 
6.3% 
6.3% 
3.6% 
3.5% 
3.2% 
2.8% 
2.2% 
Phase III studies Type II diabetes 
Only one phase III study is presented (Study 3002).  Data is available for insulin  glulisine compared 
to regular human insulin.  The commonest reported adverse events in insulin glulisine treated patients 
were:  
Upper Respiratory Infection  13.8% 
Oedema 
Arthralgia 
Diarrhoea 
Nasopharyngitis 
Headache 
Influenza 
Back pain 
Sinusitis 
Urinary Tract Infection 
Cough   
Nausea  
Pharyngitis 
8.3% 
7.4% 
6.4% 
6.2% 
5.5% 
5.3% 
4.1% 
3.4% 
3.4% 
3.2% 
2.8% 
2.3% 
A similar frequency and quality of adverse events was recorded in the comparator group.  
In general, the common adverse events reported are considered to be those to be expected in a diabetic 
population. Adverse events worthy of discussion are hypoglycaemia, cardiac disorders, eye disorders, 
possible hypersensitivity disorders, neoplasms and injection site abnormalities.  
Hypoglycaemia 
During the clinical trial program hypoglycaemic events including severe and/or nocturnal events were 
seen in patients treated with insulin glulisine at a comparable frequency with the control group. 
Cardiac  Disorders:    the  numbers  of  events  reported  and  considered  to  be  treatment  related  are  very 
few.  In type I diabetes a single event was recorded in study 3004 in an insulin glulisine treated patient  
- a case of sinus tachycardia.  No other treatment related event was recorded from any other trial. 
34/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In type II diabetes no treatment related event was recorded. 
Eye disorders: despite the data available is limited on this regard, it does not give rise to concern that 
insulin glulisine is associated with an increased severity or frequency of ocular adverse events.   
Injection site disorders: the data regarding injection site reactions are reassuring.  Insulin glulisine use 
is not associated with an increase in frequency or severity of injection site reactions. 
Neoplasms:    there  is  nothing  to  suppose  that  insulin  glulisine  is  likely  to  be  associated  with  an 
increased  frequency  of  neoplasia,  compared  to  other  insulins.  The  issue  should  however  be  re-
reviewed when further long-term safety data are available and during the life of the product.   
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Apart  from  hypoglycaemic  events,  serious  adverse  events  have  been  compared  between  insulin 
glulisine  and  comparator  treatments.    The  frequencies  of  all  serious  adverse  events  are  remarkably 
similar  between  insulin  glulisine  and  comparators  (Type  I  diabetes  insulin  glulisine  12.3%, 
comparator  12.6%;  Type  II  diabetes  insulin  glulisine  12.6%,  comparator  11.6%.    The  nature  and 
frequency of the individual events is similar between insulin glulisine and comparator. 
Keto-Acidosis was a rare event.  Six cases occurred in the clinical trial database; 3 in each of insulin 
glulisine and comparator cohorts. 
3 deaths were recorded in these studies (3001, 3002, 3004 and 3006) all during the treament phase of 
study  3002  (type  2  diabetes):  one  in  patients  who  received  insulin  glulisine  compared  with  2  in 
patients who received regular insulin. 
The  death  in  the  glulisine  arm  was  attributed  to  gastro  intestinal  hemorrhagia  with  shock  and 
subsequent MI. The deaths in the regular arm were attributed to cardiac arrest.  
• 
Laboratory findings 
Trends  in  laboratory  data  were  analysed.    No  trends  were  observed  except  that  absolute  eosinophils 
increase  was  rather  more  common  in  those  treated  with  comparator  (1.4%)  than  in  those  treated  on 
insulin glulisine (0.6%). 
• 
Immunogenicity 
The analogue nature of insulin glulisine requires that immunogenicity is studied in some detail and the 
clinical implications of antibody development assessed.   
Antibody development was assessed in studies 3001 and 3002.  4 types of antibody were assayed – 
cross-reactive to human insulin, glulisine specific and lispro specific (in the patient subsets receiving 
these analogues) as well as human insulin specific antibodies (measured in those who received lispro 
or glulisine).   
In  general,  no  significant  elevation  of  antibody  level  from  baseline  values  was  observed  in  insulin 
glulisine  treated  patients  as  a  whole.    Those  with  a  >95%  increase  from  baseline  in  cross-reacting 
antibodies  were  evaluated  further.  There  were  more  of  these  receiving  insulin  glulisine  than 
comparator  insulin  (study  3001;  glulisine  7.8%,  lispro  1.9%),  (study  3002;  glulisine  6.8%,  regular 
insulin 3.2%).  In view of the applicant, no trend was observed in these individuals for clinical events 
such as change in GHb, change in insulin dose, injection site reactions or hypoglycaemia.  2 glulisine 
and  2  comparator  patients  from  this  cohort  experienced  events  likely  to  be  allergic  in  nature  and  1 
glulisine and 3 comparator subjects from this group experienced an injection site reaction.   
35/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the clinical trials in type I diabetes, 5.1% of patients in the insulin glulisine cohort withdrew from 
the  study  compared  with  6.2%  in  the  comparator  arms.    The  reasons  for  these  withdrawals  were 
similar  in  those  treated  with  insulin  glulisine  or  comparator.    1.1%  of  each  group  withdrew  due  to 
adverse events.  0.1% of patients in the insulin glulisine arm withdrew due to lack of efficacy; in the 
comparator cohort it was 0.6%. 
In the study in type II diabetes 6.4% of those treated with insulin glulisine withdrew compared with 
8.2% in the comparator arm.  Adverse events were causal in 1.1% of glulisine patients and 1.4% in the 
comparator arm.  Lack of efficacy was responsible in no patients treated with glulisine and 0.1% of 
those who received the comparator. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
There is no post-marketing experience.     
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The database is sufficient in size to provide information regarding the safety of insulin glulisine in the 
short  term  (i.e  over  6  months).    .  Long  term  extension  studies  for  3001  and  3002  up  to  12-month 
treatment  duration  were  provided    and  overall  safety    was  assessed  upon  receipt  of  these  data.  
There was no change in the safety profile of glulisine. 
Data  provided  are  in  general  reassuring  with  regard  to  allergy,  injection  site  reactions.  In  the  short 
term, antibody formation to insulin glulisine is not associated with clinically important sequelae. 
Hypoglycemia appears as the most frequent undesirable effect of insulin therapy. During the clinical 
trial  program  hypoglycaemic  events  including  severe  and/or  nocturnal  events  were  seen  in  patients 
treated with insulin glulisine at a frequency comparable to the control group. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  general  data  indicate  that  glulisine  is  well  tolerated  and  has  a  safety 
profile similar to other compared insulins. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The information provided in the application demonstrated consistent batch-
to-batch  production  of  Apidra  achieving  a  well-defined  quality  for  the  active  substance  and  the 
medicinal  product.  The  fermentation,  basic  down-stream  processing  and  purification  of  the  active 
substance,  insulin  glulisine,  are  adequately  controlled  and  validated.  Appropriate  active  substance 
specifications  have  been  set.  The  active  substance  has  been  well-characterised  using  state-of  the-art 
methods  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical  characteristics.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the 
medicinal product has been described and validated in sufficient detail. The quality of the medicinal 
product is controlled by adequate test methods and specifications. No excipients of human or animal 
origin are used in the product manufacture and therefore there is no risk of contamination with viral or 
TSE agents by these ingredients. No animal ingredients are used for the cell culture process, the basic 
downstream  processing  and  purification  with  the  exception  of  porcine  enzymes.  Sufficient  virus 
validation data were provided for the manufacturing processes of porcine enzymes and, as well, for the 
manufacturing process of insulin glulisine to consider that Apidra is virologically safe.  
36/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  insulin  glulisine 
behaved  similarly  to  human  insulin  with  respect  to  insulin  receptor  binding,  insulin  receptor 
autophosphorylation  and  single-cell  carrier-mediated  glucose  transport  and  lipogenesis,  although 
generally  with  a  slight  shift  to  the  right  of  the  dose-response  curve.  A  slightly  more  pronounced 
hypoglycaemia than human insulin in rats, and an earlier onset of action in dogs were observed in in 
vivo studies. 
Studies  on  secondary  pharmacodynamics,  in  particular  effects  on  IGF-1  and  mitogenic  activity,  did 
not raise any concern at the expected concentration in human therapy. 
The  general  pharmacology  studies  appropriately  support  the  non-clinical  pharmacology  profile  of 
insuline glulisine, which is considered to be favourable. 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, rats and dogs were the most relevant species for non-clinical 
efficacy and safety studies. The non-clinical pharmacokinetic properties for insulin glulisine have been 
appropriately described. A number of studies concerning the absorption, distribution, metabolism and 
excretion  of  the  product  in  rats  and  dogs  were  performed.  Insulin  glulisine  is  well  and  rapidly 
absorbed in these species, and showed no major differences in the distribution of human insulin. It is 
mainly excreted in the urine. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme,  performed  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  rabbits,  showed  exaggerated 
pharmacodynamic  effects  in  the  repeat-dose  toxicity  tests.  The  toxicity  of  insulin  glulisine  is 
considered similar to that of human regular insulin 
Efficacy 
The efficacy of insulin glulisine in the treatment of DM was shown for adult subjects with type 1 and 
type  2  DM,  in  basal-bolus  regimen  using  either  glargine  or  NPH  as  the  basal  insulin  and  in  type  2 
diabetics in combination with OHA treatment. 
In three studies, insulin glulisine was shown to be non-inferior to either insulin lispro (3001) or regular 
insulin (3002 and 3004) in terms of glycemic control, i.e. change in total glycated hemoglobin (GHb) 
from baseline to endpoint.  
In study 3002 in subjects with type 2 diabetes statistical superiority of glulisine to regular insulin was 
shown.  Although  this  reduction  was  statistically  significant,  it  is  questioned  whether  the  absolute 
difference (0.16% GHb) between groups is of clinically relevance. 
In the study 3004 in type 1 diabetics postmeal administration of insulin glulisine was shown to be non-
inferior to premeal administrered glulisine in terms of changes from baseline to endpoint in GHb. Both 
regimens  were  shown  to  be  non-inferior  to  regular  insulin  administered  30  to  45  minutes  before  a 
meal.  
The efficacy of glulisine appears to be maintained irrespective of BMI, age, sex, race, baseline degree 
of glycemic control, or in the absence or presence of concomitant OHAs.  
It can be concluded that the data submitted demonstrates evidence of efficacy for the use of glulisine 
in type 1 as well as type 2 diabetes patients, and that non-inferiority of glulisine to other short acting 
insulins on the market has been adequately demonstrated.   
Safety 
The safety database from different short-term studies included 1617 insulin glulisine-treated patients 
and  1295  receiving  a  comparator  insulin  product.  One  year  extension  studies  for  studies  3001  and 
3002  have  been  provided.  In  general  the  analysis  shows  that  the  frequency  of  adverse  events  was 
similar  in  insuline  glulisine  and  in  comparator  treatments  both  in  terms  of  frequency  and  quality.  
The common adverse events reported were those expected in the diabetic population. Hypoglycemia 
appears  as  the  most  frequent  undesirable  effect  of  insulin  therapy.  During  the  clinical  trial  program 
hypoglycaemic  events  including  severe  and/or  nocturnal  events  were  seen  in  patients  treated  with 
insulin glulisine at a comparable frequency with the control group. 
37/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because of the analogue nature of insuline glulisine, immunogenicity studies were performed, and the 
results showed no concern. 
It can be concluded that the overall general data indicate that insuline glulisine is well tolerated and 
has a safety profile similar to lispro and regular insulin. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Diabetes  Mellitus  is  a  chronic  disorder  characterized  by  hyperglycemia  resulting  from  defects  in 
insulin  secretion,  insulin  action  or  both.  Insulin  glulisine  (3BLys-29BGlu-human  insulin)  is  a 
recombinant  rapid-acting  analogue  of  human  insulin  produced  using  Escherichia  coli.    The  time-
concentration and the time-action profiles of glulisine, define it as a member of the rapid-acting insulin 
subfamily  of  short  acting  insulin  preparations.  The  Applicant  claims  that  due  to  insulin  glulisine’s 
rapid onset and short duration of action, an adequate control can be achieved even when administered 
within 15 minutes before meals or immediately after meals. 
Insulin  glulisine  has  shown  a  similar  effect  to  other  rapid-acting  insulin  preparations  in  terms  of 
glycemic control (change in total glycated hemoglobin from baseline to endpoint). 
Postmeal  administration  of  insulin  glulisine  was  shown  to  be  non-inferior  to  premeal  administrered 
glulisine in terms of changes from baseline to endpoint in glycated hemoglobin, and to regular insulin 
administered 30 to 45 minutes before a meal.  
It is concluded that insulin glulisine is well tolerated and has a safety profile similar to other compared 
insulins.  Therefore,  insulin  glulisine  may  play  a role in the  treatment  of adult patients with  diabetes 
mellitus. A positive benefit/risk ratio can be concluded. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of Apidra in the treatment of adult patients with diabetes mellitus 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
38/38 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
