Summary of risk management plan for  Apixaban  Accord 2.5 mg and 5 
mg film-coated Tablets (Apixaban) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-
coated Tablets. The RMP details important risks of Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated 
Tablets,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets should be read 
in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of  Apixaban 
Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg film coated tablets are indicated for: 
Prevention  of  venous  thromboembolic  events  (VTE)  in  adult  patients  who  have  undergone 
elective hip or knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); 
age ≥ 75 years; hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment  of  deep  vein  thrombosis  (DVT)  and  pulmonary  embolism  (PE),  and  prevention  of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults 
Apixaban Accord 5 mg film coated tablets are indicated for: 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); 
age≥ 75 years; hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults 
It contains Apixaban as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Apixaban 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablet’s benefits 
can be found in Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablet’s EPAR, including in its plain-
language  summary,  available  on 
the  EMA  website,  under 
the  medicine’s  webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/apixaban-accord 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets together with measures to minimise such risks 
and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Apixaban  Accord  2.5  mg/  5  mg  film-coated 
Tablets risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Apixaban  Accord  2.5  mg/  5  mg  film-coated  Tablets,  these  measures  are 
supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation  measures  mentioned  under  relevant  important 
risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment (if applicable) and signal management activity, so 
 
that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated 
Tablets is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 
mg film-coated Tablets. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
  Bleeding 
  Liver injury 
  Potential  risk  of  bleeding  or  thrombosis  due  to 
overdose or underdose 
Missing Information 
  Severe renal impairment 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risks: Bleeding 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 4.9, 5.1 and 5.3 of 
Apixaban  SmPC  have  information  on  this  safety 
concern. 
 
Section 2, 3 and 4 of Apixaban PIL has information 
on this safety concern. 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  include 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Prescribers Guide, Patient Alert Card 
Important potential risks: Liver injury 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of Apixaban SmPC have 
information on this safety concern. 
Section 4 of Apixaban PIL has information on this 
safety concern. 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  include 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important potential risks: Potential risk of bleeding or thrombosis due to overdose or 
underdose 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.9 of Apixaban SmPC has information on 
this safety concern. 
Section 3 of Apixaban PIL has information on this 
safety concern. 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  include 
the prescription only status of the product. 
 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Severe renal impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections  4.2,  4.4,  4.9  and  5.2  of  Apixaban  SmPC 
have information on this safety concern. 
Section  2  and  3  of  Apixaban  PIL  has  information 
on this safety concern. 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  include 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg/ 5 mg film-coated Tablets. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Apixaban  Accord  2.5  mg/  5  mg  film-coated  Tablets  as  post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
