28 May 2020 
EMA/322602/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Apixaban Accord  
International non-proprietary name: apixaban 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005358/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 8 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical and pharmaceutical aspects............................................. 17 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 17 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 17 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 17 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 17 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 18 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 18 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 18 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 18 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 18 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 20 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 23 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 23 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 23 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 24 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 24 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 25 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 25 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 25 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 26 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 26 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 2/28 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
AEs  
ALT  
aPTT  
ASMF 
AUC  
BCS 
BMI  
CFU 
CK  
CL/F  
CLcr  
CLR  
  Adverse events 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Activated partial thromboplastin time 
Active Substance Master File 
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Body mass index 
Colony Forming Units 
Creatine kinase 
Apparent total clearance after oral administration 
Creatinine clearance 
Renal clearance 
Cmax  
Peak plasma concentration 
Cmin  
CRNM 
Minimum plasma concentration 
 Clinically relevant non-major 
DOACs  
Direct oral anticoagulants 
DSC 
DVT  
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Deep vein thrombosis 
ESRD  
End-stage renal disease 
FXa  
GI  
GC   
Factor Xa 
Gastrointestinal 
Gas Chromatography 
HDPE 
High Density Polyethylene 
HPLC     
High performance liquid chromatography 
ICH     
 International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
International Normalized Ratio 
Infrared 
Karl Fischer titration 
INR  
IR 
KF  
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 3/28 
 
  
  
 
LMWH  
Low-molecular weight heparin 
LDPE 
Low density polyethylene 
MAA  
mPT  
MS 
NMR 
Marketing Authorization Application 
Modified prothrombin time 
Mass Spectrometry 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
NOACS  
Non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants 
NSAIDs  
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
NVAF  
Non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
PCC  
PE  
P-gp  
PP 
Prothrombin complex concentrates 
Pulmonary embolism 
Permeability glycoprotein 
Polypropylene 
PPCP  
Polypropylene copolymer  
PT  
PVC 
Prothrombin time 
Polyvinyl chloride 
PVdC  
Polyvinylidene chloride 
QbD  
SM 
Quality by design 
Starting material 
SmPC  
Summary of product characteristic 
t1/2  
TIA  
Half-life 
Transient ischemic attack 
Tmax  
Time to reach peak plasma concentration 
TSE 
UF  
USP 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Unfractionated 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
USP/NF 
United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
UV 
Ultraviolet 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 4/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VKA  
VTE  
Vitamin K antagonist 
Venous thromboembolism 
XR(P)D 
X-Ray (Powder) Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 5/28 
 
  
  
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare S.L.U. submitted on 1 June 2019 an application for marketing authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Apixaban Accord, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 26 April 2019. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
For 2.5 mg: 
Prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have undergone elective hip or knee 
replacement surgery. 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), with 
one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; 
hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT and 
PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
For 5 mg: 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), with 
one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age≥ 75 years; 
hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is  
composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a bioequivalence study with the reference 
medicinal product Eliquis instead of non-clinical and clinical unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 8 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Eliquis film-coated tablets 2.5mg and 5mg  
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG 
• 
Date of authorisation: 18/05/2011 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 6/28 
 
  
  
 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/11/691   
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Eliquis film-coated tablets 2.5mg and 5mg  
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG 
• 
• 
• 
Date of authorisation: 18/05/2011 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/11/691   
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Eliquis film-coated tablets 5mg   
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG 
• 
• 
• 
Date of authorisation: 18/05/2011 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/11/691 
Bioavailability study number: 0310-16 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 7/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: Alar Irs 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
1 June 2019 
20 June 2019 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
9 September 2019 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
24 September 2019 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
17 October 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
24 January 2020 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
2 March 2020 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
12 March 2020 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
26 March 2020 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
27 April 2020 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
13 May 2020 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
28 May 2020 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Apixaban Accord on  
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 8/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Apixaban Accord film-coated tablets 2.5mg and 5mg MAAs have been submitted according to the Article 10.1 
of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended (i.e. generic application) containing the same active substance in the 
same pharmaceutical form and strengths as the reference product. The reference product is Eliquis 2.5mg 
film-coated tablets, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG, that was first approved in the European 
Union on 18/05/2011 via centralised procedure (EU/1/11/691).  
The drug substance is apixaban. The Pharmacotherapeutic group: antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa 
inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF02 
Apixaban is a potent, oral, reversible, direct and highly selective active site inhibitor of factor Xa. It does not 
require antithrombin III for antithrombotic activity. Apixaban inhibits free and clot-bound factor Xa, and 
prothrombinase activity. Apixaban has no direct effects on platelet aggregation, but indirectly inhibits platelet 
aggregation induced by thrombin. By inhibiting factor Xa, apixaban prevents thrombin generation and 
thrombus development. Preclinical studies of apixaban in animal models have demonstrated antithrombotic 
efficacy in the prevention of arterial and venous thrombosis at doses that preserved haemostasis. 
The indications sought for Apixaban Accord are the same as those for the reference product. 
Apixaban Accord is indicated for:  
2.5 mg: 
• 
• 
• 
5 mg: 
• 
• 
Prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have undergone elective hip 
or knee replacement surgery (for 2.5mg strength only). 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), 
with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; 
hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), 
with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; 
hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
The product is a subject to medical prescription. 
The  maximum  daily  dose  of  apixaban  is  20mg  when  taken  orally.  The  posology  and  duration  of  treatment 
depend  on  the  specific  indications  according  to  the  SmPC.  The  duration  of  overall  therapy  should  be 
individualised after careful assessment of the treatment benefit against the risk for bleeding.  
Apixaban must not be used in patients who are actively bleeding, or who have liver disease which leads to 
problems with blood clotting and an increased risk of bleeding. The medicine must also not be used in 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 9/28 
 
  
  
patients with conditions putting them at risk of major bleeding, such as an ulcer in the gut, or in patients 
being treated with other anticoagulant medicines except in specific circumstances.  
Since this is an abridged application claiming essential similarity to the reference product, no new clinical and 
non-clinical studies have been undertaken with the exception of one BE study (see Clinical Aspects section of 
this report).  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 2.5 mg or 5 mg of apixaban as active 
substance. 
Other ingredients are: anhydrous lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, sodium lauryl 
sulphate, magnesium stearate, Opadry II Yellow (2.5 mg strength only), Opadry II Pink (5mg strength only).  
The components of Opadry are: hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, titanium dioxide, triacetin, iron oxide 
yellow (Opadry Yellow), iron oxide red (Opadry Pink). 
As described in section 6.5 of the SmPC, the product is available in PVC/PVdC/Aluminium blisters, 
PVC/PVdC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blister and HDPE bottles with polypropylene child 
resistant/continues threaded closure. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The  chemical  name  of  apixaban  is  1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-7-oxo-6-[4-(2-oxopiperidin-1-yl)phenyl]-4,5,6,7-
tetrahydro-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-c]pyridine-3-carboxamide corresponding to the molecular formula C25H25N5O4. It 
has a relative molecular mass of 459.50 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: Apixaban structure 
The chemical structure of apixaban was adequately elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis (C, H 
and N) and spectral data [IR, UV, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR and MS (direct infusion, electrospray +)]. The solid state 
properties of the active substance were measured by XRPD and DSC. 
Apixaban is a white to pale yellow non-hygroscopic crystalline powder, soluble in chloroform, sparingly 
soluble in dimethylsulfoxide and insoluble in water. Apixaban is a non-ionisable compound, so its solubility is 
not affected by changes in pH. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 10/28 
 
  
  
 
 
Apixaban is an achiral molecule. Polymorphism has been observed for apixaban; there are 13 forms reported 
in literature. The manufacturer consistently manufactures the same polymorphic form of apixaban. Stability 
of the polymorphic form has been adequately demonstrated. Polymorphism is controlled by an XRPD analysis 
test included in the active substance specification of both the ASMF holder and the applicant. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of 
the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. One active substance manufacturer is proposed together with 
an alternative manufacturer of a named intermediate.  
Apixaban is synthesized in three main stages using well-defined starting materials with acceptable 
specifications. The suitability of the two proposed starting materials (SM), and their control strategies has 
been sufficiently demonstrated during the procedure in response to a major objection (MO). Following 
another MO asking the ASMF to address the carry-over of a specific impurity with mutagenic potential, the 
applicant presented a detailed genotoxic discussion in line with ICH M7; the data provided confirm the 
effective purge of potential genotoxic impurities.  
The same specifications are applied for the named intermediate manufactured by both manufacturers. In 
response to a MO asking the ASMF holder to discuss the carry-over of impurities originating from the 
intermediate and the proposed starting materials, the ASMF holder revised its control strategy, including 
those impurities with mutagenic potential. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been updated during the procedure and are now 
considered adequate. 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. In this 
regard, during the procedure the ASMF holder updated the Applicant`s part of the ASMF with a revised 
control strategy for impurities with genotoxic potential in line with ICH M7 Guideline as requested by the 
CHMP in a MO. 
The ASMF holder and the applicant have included additional tests to control the residual level of potential 
nitrosamines derivatives in the final active substance. 
No changes of the manufacturing process have been described in the manufacturing process development of 
the active substance.  
Apixaban is packed in double low density polyethylene bags contained in polyethylene drums. The polyethylene 
bags comply with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for: description, solubility, identification (IR, HPLC, XPRD), 
loss on drying (Ph.Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur.), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), , residual 
solvents (GC), nitrosamines derivatives (HPLC-MS) and particle size (Malvern). 
Impurities limits have been set in line with ICH Q3A guidance.  
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 11/28 
 
  
  
During the procedure, the ASMF holder and the applicant have included in the active substance specification 
tests to control the residual level of two additional solvents and, following the provision of the nitrosamine 
risk assessment, limit tests for two potential nitrosamines derivatives potentially arising from the SM. The 
relevant sections of the restricted and open part of the ASMF have been updated satisfactorily. The limit for 
nitrosamines derivatives has been set based on the maximum daily dose in line with ICH M7. 
Confirmation of polymorphic purity and particle size distribution are included in the active substance 
specification as these are considered critical material attributes, as they impact the solubility of the active 
substance. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines with the exception of the in-house test of residual solvents, 
which were introduced during the procedure. The applicant is recommended to provide additional validation 
data (linearity, precision) for the in-house test of residual solvents. Satisfactory information regarding the 
reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on 4 pilot scale batches, and 2 production scale batches of the active substance are 
provided. The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from 3 pilot scale and 2 production scale batches of active substance from the proposed 
manufacturer stored in the intended commercial package for up to 48 months under long term conditions (25 
ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided. Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on samples of 
the active substance. Results on stress conditions both in the solid and aqueous state on samples of the 
active substance were provided.   
Only stability indicating parameters (description, loss on drying, assay, impurities) were tested. The 
analytical methods used were the same as those used for release testing and were stability indicating.  
All tested parameters were within the specification limits under long term and accelerated conditions. Slight 
degradation was observed only under acidic, basic and oxidising stress conditions in solution. 
Additional XRPD stability data from 3 validation batches of the active substance for up to 36 months under 
long term conditions has been provided confirming the stability of the desired polymorphic form of apixaban. 
Since the submission includes data from stability studies on fewer than three production scale batches, the 
stability commitment has been amended to indicate that the studies will be continued through the proposed 
re-test period and an additional commercial scale batch will be placed on long term stability study through 
the proposed re-test period.  
Additional stability data at release and after 47 months of storage under long-term storage conditions have 
been provided during the review, demonstrating that the particle size of the active substance is not affected 
by storage.  
In line with internal policy -procedures, the applicant has fixed a one-year re-test period for the active 
substance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 12/28 
 
  
  
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is sufficiently 
stable. The stability results justify the retest period of 60 months, with no special storage conditions, when 
stored in the proposed container, as proposed by the ASMF holder.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Apixaban film-coated tablets are available in two strengths (2.5 mg and 5 mg) both strengths have the same 
qualitative core composition and their formulation is dose proportional. The composition of the two strengths 
and the film coating agent Opadry has been given is outlined  
Ingredients are: Apixaban, anhydrous lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, sodium 
lauryl sulphate, magnesium stearate, Opadry II Yellow (2.5 mg strength only), Opadry II Pink (5 mg strength 
only).  
The components of Opadry are: hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, titanium dioxide, triacetin, iron oxide 
yellow (Opadry Yellow), iron oxide red (Opadry Pink). 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a stable, bioequivalent generic version of the 
reference product, Eliquis® (Apixaban) film-coated tablets 2.5 mg and 5 mg.  
The formulation of Apixaban Accord is qualitative identical to the formulation of the reference medicinal 
product. All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. Opadry II yellow (2.5 mg) and pink (5 mg) used in the coating are not described in any 
Pharmacopoeia, but all the individual ingredients (hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, titanium dioxide, 
triacetin, iron oxide yellow and iron oxide pink) are either described in Ph.Eur. or NF. Functionality related 
characteristics of excipients lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium and magnesium 
stearate have been discussed. For all the mentioned excipients a specification for particle size distribution has 
been set; for magnesium stearate, specific surface area is also controlled. There are no novel excipients used 
in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in 
paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. A series of binary active substance-excipient compatibility studies were 
performed and the results demonstrated good compatibility. 
The choice of excipients is justified and their functions explained. The formulation used during clinical studies 
is the same as that intended for marketing. 
Apixaban is considered to be a BCS Class III compound (high solubility and low permeability). It is freely 
soluble across the physiological pH. Apixaban is a non-ionisable compound, so its solubility is not affected by 
changes in pH. The polymorphic form and particle size may affect its performance in vivo. XRDP data on one 
batch of both strengths of finished product at release and stored for 6 months at 40°C/75%RH have been 
provided confirming that the polymorphic form of the active substance remains unchanged in the finished 
product during storage.  
Pharmaceutical development of the finished product contains QbD elements. The formulation and 
manufacturing development have been evaluated through the use of risk assessment and design of 
experiments to identify the critical product quality attributes and critical process parameters. A risk analysis 
was performed in order to define critical process steps and process parameters that may have an influence 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 13/28 
 
  
  
 
on the finished product quality attributes. The risk identification was based on the prior knowledge of 
products with similar formulations and manufacturing processes as well as on the experience from 
formulation development, process design and scale-up studies. The following critical quality attributes (CQA) 
were defined: tablet average weight, identification, dissolution, related substances, assay, content uniformity, 
microbial limits, elemental impurities and polymorphism. Assay, dissolution, content uniformity and related 
substances were identified as CQAs that can be impacted by the formulation and/or process variables and 
have been discussed in detail in the pharmaceutical development. Excipient levels of croscarmellose sodium, 
sodium lauryl sulphate and magnesium stearate have been optimised to give a dissolution profile similar to 
the one of the reference product.  
The manufacturing process selected is dry mixing and direct compression. Blending and lubrication time were 
optimised to ensure the desired blend uniformity. Blending and lubrication have been adequately identified as 
critical process parameters. The impact of lubrication time and hardness on dissolution were also investigated 
and it was concluded that within the proposed range neither had a significant impact.  
The dissolution studies performed with the paddle apparatus using 5mg batches of the reference and test 
products, including batches used in the bioequivalence study, showed similar dissolution profiles, with at least 
80% dissolved in 45 minutes, between the test and reference product and for the reference product in all 
investigated media (50 rpm in 0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 acetate buffer and phosphate buffer pH 6.8, and 75 rpm in 
phosphate buffer pH 6.8 phosphate buffer).  
The developed QC dissolution method is in line with Ph. Eur. requirements. To assess the discriminatory 
power of the dissolution method, two batches of Apixaban tablets 5 mg manufactured with different active 
substance particle size were studied.  Apixaban tablets 5 mg manufactured with coarser active substance 
particle size showed significantly slower drug release rate and failed to meet finished product dissolution 
specification. Therefore, it was concluded that the selected dissolution method has sufficient discrimination 
power to identify the difference in formulation of Apixaban tablets. 
To further substantiate the discriminatory power of the dissolution method and tighten the dissolution limits, 
in response to concerns raised during the procedure, the applicant investigated the dissolution of two batches 
of the finished product manufactured with different hardness, one with hardness higher than the one 
validated and one with acceptable hardness. The finished product with higher hardness (outside the process 
validation range) compared showed slower drug release and failed to comply with the new dissolution 
specification. The discriminatory power of the dissolution method has been satisfactorily demonstrated.  The 
dissolution specification limit was updated during the procedure.  
A bioequivalence study was performed with the 5 mg tablets showing bioequivalence between the high 
strength of the test and reference product. Details on the bioequivalence studies conducted can be found in 
Module 5 of this report. A bio-waver for the 2.5 mg strength has been adequately justified and agreed in line 
with the requirements of the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (both strengths are 
manufactured by the same manufacturer using the same manufacturing process, the qualitative composition 
of is the same, the composition of the both strengths quantitatively proportional, the in-vitro dissolution 
profile is similar under identical conditions for the additional strengths and apixaban demonstrates linear 
pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range). 
In-use stability studies with crushed 5 mg tablets demonstrate that the product is stable for up to 4 hours in 
the mediums proposed in the SmPC (i.e. water, 5% dextrose in water, apple juice and apple sauce). No 
significant change in assay or impurities was observed and the level of all impurities remained below 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 14/28 
 
  
  
specification limits in all investigated mediums. The data further support the suitability of the administration 
of the crushed and suspended tablets in water and in 5% dextrose via a nasogastric tube. 
Apixaban film-coated tablets are packed in PVC/PVdC-Aluminium blisters and/or HDPE bottles with 
polypropylene child resistant/continued threaded closure, and/or polypropylene copolymer (PPCP) container 
as a transportation package.  The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. Child-resistance 
properties of the HDPE container with PP closure system have been demonstrated. The choice of the 
container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the 
product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of 5 main steps: co-sifting of excipients, blending, lubrication, compression, 
film-coating and packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
Appropriate control specifications for the intermediates have been provided. The validation of the 
manufacturing process has been presented for three commercial scale batches of each tablet strength. It has 
been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing finished product of intended 
quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing 
process. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: description, 
average weight of tablet, identification (HPLC, UV), water (KF – Ph. Eur.), resistance to crushing of tablets  
(Ph. Eur.), dissolution (by HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (content uniformity, HPLC – Ph.Eur.), assay and 
related substances (HPLC) and microbial examination (Ph. Eur.). 
Specification limits for the identified impurity and total impurities has been tightened during the procedure in 
line with batch data. The proposed specification is now considered adequate. The analytical methods used 
have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. The 
reference standards used are the same as used for the active substance testing and are considered suitable 
for use. 
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed on a risk-based 
approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. Based on the risk assessment, it can 
be concluded that it is not necessary to include any elemental impurity controls in the finished product 
specification. The information on the control of elemental impurities is satisfactory. 
A risk assessment on the potential presence of nitrosamine impurities originating from the active substance, 
the excipients, process equipment, cleaning agents and packaging materials has been provided. No risk has 
been identified. The company has committed to provide additional batch analysis data to confirm the 
conclusions of performed investigations on the potential presence of nitrosamine impurities in the Apixaban 
Accord 2.5/5 mg film-coated tablets prior to commercialization of the drug product. The applicant is 
recommended to provide batch analysis data from 6 pilot scale batches or 3 production scale batches 
confirming the absence of nitrosamines in the finished product prior to its commercialisation (REC 2). As both 
strengths of the finished product batches are manufactured from the same bulk data can be provided from 
either or both strengths. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 15/28 
 
  
  
 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 production scale batches for both tablet strengths confirming the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 3 production scale batches of both tablet strengths stored for up to 36 months (packed in 
blisters) and for up to 24 months (packed in HDPE bottles), under long term conditions (25ºC / 60% RH), 
and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were 
provided. The batches of medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in 
the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Bulk stability data from 2 production scale batches of both finished product strengths stored for up to 12 
months under long term conditions (25ºC / 60% RH) packed in a PPCP container, used for bulk storage and 
transportation, and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided. 
In-use stability data (open bottle) from one production scale batch of each tablet strengths stored under long 
term conditions (25ºC / 60% RH) in a HDPE bottle for up to 90 days were provided. 
Samples were tested for appearance, assay, impurity/degradants, dissolution, water content, and microbial 
quality (tested yearly at long-term studies). Identification, average weight of tablet and uniformity of dosage 
units for apixaban tablets are only tested at release since they are not stability-indicating tests. All results 
were within specification limits. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating.  
In addition, one batch per strength was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Q1B Guideline on 
Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. Data showed no significant change in 
description, assay or degradation products of apixaban, concluding that the finished product is not sensitive 
to light. 
Forced degradation studies on one batch of the 5 mg strength were performed by exposing the finished 
product to acid, base, oxidation by peroxide, extreme moisture and heat, UV and metal ion oxidation 
(solution of Cu (II) and Fe (III)). The possible degradation products were identified and the stability 
indicating power of the HPLC analytical method was confirmed. 
Based on satisfactory bulk stability data, 12 months storage period is assigned for the bulk tablets stored in 
the PPCP container. Tablets are to be repacked in to blisters within 12 months from the date of bulk packing 
into PPCP containers.  
The start of shelf life of the finished product is being considered from the date of dispensing materials for the 
manufacture of the finished product, which is more stringent than the requirements stated in guideline 
CPMP/QWP/072/96. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 36 months with no special storage conditions as 
stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable for the product packaged in PVC/PVDC-Aluminium blisters and 
HDPE bottles. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 16/28 
 
  
  
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information about the synthesis process and the control mechanisms for the active substance is provided in 
the supporting ASMF. The initially raised MOs regarding the proposed starting materials, the disclosed level of 
details of the route of synthesis as well as the carry-over of impurities and the control strategy for the 
potentially genotoxic impurities have been adequately addressed. The company is recommended to perform 
additional validation data (linearity, precision) for the in-house tests for residual solvents.  
Risk assessment on nitrosamines has been provided. Based on the presented data, it can be concluded that 
no risk has been identified. Nevertheless, the applicant is recommended to provide batch analysis data from 
6 pilot scale batches or 3 production scale batches confirming the absence of nitrosamines in the finished 
product prior to its commercialisation.  
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give 
reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1.  In line with ICH Q2 (R1) requirements, the applicant is recommended to provide additional validation 
data (linearity, precision) for the in-house tests for residual solvents.  
2.  The applicant is recommended to provide batch analysis data from 6 pilot scale batches or 3 
production scale batches of the finished product confirming the absence of nitrosamines in the 
finished product prior to its commercialisation.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 17/28 
 
  
  
 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Apixaban Accord manufactured by Accord Healthcare S.L.U. is considered unlikely to result in 
any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all apixaban containing products and the exposure 
of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical overview is based on published literature data. This is acceptable since apixaban is well 
known active substance and essential similarity is claimed to the reference product. There are no new non-
clinical studies performed in support of the proposed application hence the presented Non-clinical Overview is 
considered sufficient for this type of MAA. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Apixaban Accord from a non-clinical point of view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for tablets containing apixaban. To support the marketing authorisation application the 
applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was 
the pivotal study for the assessment. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
efficacy and safety of apixaban based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as 
well as the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09).  
GCP 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
A request for a waiver of a bioequivalence study for Apixaban Accord 2.5 mg was submitted by the applicant 
according to the following general requirements [Ref: Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence, Doc. 
Ref.: CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr**]: 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 18/28 
 
  
  
a) All the strengths i.e. 2.5 mg and 5 mg of proposed pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same 
manufacturer i.e. Intas Pharmaceutical Limited using the same manufacturing process, 
b) The qualitative composition of the Apixaban film-coated tablets 2.5 mg is same as that of apixaban film-
coated tablets 5 mg. 
c)  The  composition  of  the  all  strengths  i.e.  2.5  mg  and  5  mg  are  quantitatively  proportional  i.e.  the  ratio 
between the amount of each excipient to the amount of active substance(s) is same among 2.5 mg and 5 mg 
strengths. 
d) The in-vitro dissolution profile is similar under identical conditions for the additional strengths i.e. 2.5 mg 
and the strength of batch used in the bioequivalence studies i.e. 5 mg (see Dissolution conditions and Table 
5). 
e) Apixaban demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range. 
Dissolution conditions 
Apparatus 
Paddle 
Rotation speed 
50 rpm (0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 Acetate buffer, pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer) and 75 rpm (in pH 
6.8 Phosphate buffer; QC Medium) 
Volume  
900 ml 
Dissolution media 
HCl 0.1N 
pH 4.5 Acetate buffer 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer  
Temperature  
37 ± 0.5°C 
Time Points  
10, 15, 20, 30, 45 and 60 minutes  
Units 
12 units  
Table 1 . Comparative dissolution data for Apixaban film-coated tablets 5 mg versus Apixaban film-coated 
tablets 2.5 mg 
Apixaban 
tablets 
Apixaban 
tablets  5mg  B. 
T07222 
No. 
(Test BE Batch) 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Dissolution Medium 
Time (minutes) 
10  15  20  30  45  60 
F2 Vs 
BE 
batch 
0.1N HCl (at 50 rpm) 
61 
71 
77 
83 
87 
89 
pH 4.5 Acetate buffer (at 50 rpm) 
74 
80 
83 
87 
89 
90 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (at 50 rpm) 
70 
76 
79 
83 
86 
88 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (at 75 rpm) 
91 
95 
97 
99  100  101 
0.1N HCl (at 50 rpm) 
54 
66 
72 
79 
85 
88 
pH 4.5 Acetate buffer (at 50 rpm) 
76 
83 
86 
90 
92 
94 
65 
77 
Page 19/28 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apixaban 
tablets  2.5mg 
B. No. T07221 
Apixaban 
tablets  2.5mg 
B. No. T07223 
Apixaban 
tablets  2.5mg 
B. No. T07225 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (at 50 rpm) 
69 
76 
80 
84 
87 
89 
94 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (at 75 rpm) 
89 
94 
96 
98 
99  100 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (at 75 rpm) 
87 
92 
94 
97 
98 
99 
* 
* 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer (at 75 rpm) 
91 
94 
96 
99 
99  100 
* 
* More than 85% dissolution was observed in 15 minutes for both products for which dissolution comparison is considered. 
Hence, f2 calculation is not considered necessary. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one (1) bioequivalence study, Study No. 0310-16  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design 
Study 0310-16 was an open-label, analyst-blinded, balanced, randomized, single oral dose, two-sequenced, 
two-period, two-treatment cross-over bioequivalence study in healthy, adult subjects under fasting conditions 
with a wash out period of 5 days between two administrations. In each period single oral dose of either test or 
reference product of apixaban 5 mg tablets was orally administered.  
Test and reference products  
Test Product: Apixaban  tablets 5  mg  by  Intas  Pharmaceuticals  Limited,  Matoda,  India; batch  No.  T07222; 
manufacturing date: May 2016, expiry date: Apr 2018 
Reference  Product:  Eliquis®  5  mg  tablets  by  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  S.r.l,  Loc.  Fontana  del  Ceraso,  03012 
Anagni  (FR)  Italy  (MAH:  Bristol-Myers  Squibb/Pfizer  EEIG,  Uxbridge,  Middlesex,  UB8  1DH,  UK);  Lot  No.: 
AAM3567 from UK market; expiry date: Feb 2019  
Population studied 
A total of 32 healthy male subjects (Asian race, aged 19 – 44 years, BMI 18.56 – 28.18 kg/m2) were included 
in the study. Only non-smokers were allowed in this study.  
31 subjects completed both study phases and were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis.  
One subject was withdrawn from the study on the grounds of protocol non-compliance in Period-II.   
Prior to check-in in Period-I, one subject discontinued from the study on his own accord and was replaced with 
next available volunteer. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 20/28 
 
  
  
Analytical methods 
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using a validated LC-MS/MS method over a concentration range 
of  0.252 ng/mL to 300.148  ng/mL  for  apixaban.  A  detailed description  of  the  operative  procedures  and  the 
validation process were provided.  
In conclusion, the analytical method allowed a suitable investigation of the bioavailability of apixaban after oral 
administration. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Primary variables were Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞.  
Secondary pharmacokinetic parameters determined were Tmax, λz, t½ and residual area %. 
Statistical methods   
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  from  the  plasma  concentration  vs.  time  profile  by  non-
compartmental model for apixaban. Statistical comparison of the PK of the two formulations was carried out to 
assess the bioequivalence between test and reference formulations. 
PK parameters for each individual were tabulated and graphically presented. Actual time-points of the sample 
collection  are  used  for  the  calculation  of  PK  parameters.  All  concentration  values  below  the  lower  limit  of 
quantification are set to zero for the pharmacokinetic and statistical calculations. Individual AUC parameters 
were calculated using the linear trapezoidal rule. ANOVA was performed on the ln-transformed Cmax, AUC0-t and 
AUC0-∞.  Non-parametric  analysis  of  tmax  was  performed  on  untransformed  data.  ANOVA  model  included 
Sequence, Subject (Sequence), Formulation and Period as fixed effects 
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
The 90% confidence intervals for the difference of means of ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax, 
AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ for apixaban fell within acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00% to conclude the test product 
was bioequivalent to the reference product under fasting conditions.  
Results 
Table 2. Pharmacokinetic parameters for apixaban (non-transformed values) 
Test N=31 
Reference N=31 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
CV% 
geometric mean 
CV% 
AUC(0-72h) 
1707.893 
± 359.5802 
1683.108 
± 340.4582 
(ng*h/mL) 
1670.691 
21.1% 
1648.415 
20.2% 
AUC(0-∞)  
1717.846 
± 360.3570 
1692.468 
± 340.4766 
(ng*h/mL) 
1680.635 
21.0% 
1657.902 
20.1% 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
189.046 
185.785 
± 35.8055 
187.740 
± 35.8139 
18.9% 
184.381 
19.1% 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 21/28 
 
  
  
 
Test N=31 
Reference N=31 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
arithmetic mean 
SD 
geometric mean 
CV% 
geometric mean 
CV% 
Tmax* 
(h) 
2.75 
1.00 - 4.00 
2.50 
1.00 - 4.50 
AUC0-72h  
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 hours  
AUC0-∞   
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
Cmax  
Tmax  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 3. Statistical analysis for apixaban (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC(0-72h)  
AUC(0-∞)  
Cmax  
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
(%) 
101.4 
101.4 
100.8 
(%) 
97.73 – 105.24 
97.78 – 105.22 
94.81 – 107.11 
CV%* 
8.6 
8.5 
14.2 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
Figure 2. Mean plasma concentration vs. time curve for apixaban after administration of Test and Reference 
formulations (5 mg) to healthy subjects (N=31). 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 22/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
There were no adverse events during the conduct of the study. There were no clinically significant findings in 
the vital signs assessment or the laboratory tests in any of the subjects in the study. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted a single dose crossover design bioequivalence study 
under fasting conditions to demonstrate essential similarity with the reference product Eliquis 2.5 mg and 5 
mg film-coated tablets (manufactured by Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG, UK). According to the SmPC of 
reference product, the pharmacokinetics of apixaban appears linear over the therapeutic dosage range. 
Apixaban can be taken without regard to food. Therefore, the selection of the highest dose, 5 mg, to be used 
in the bioequivalence study under fasting conditions is justified and in accordance to guidelines.  
Overall study design was acceptable and in line with pharmacokinetic properties of apixaban. The BE study 
was conducted under standardised conditions. The sampling period was sufficient, the sampling time 
schedule and wash-out period were adequate taking into account the T-max and elimination half-life of 
apixaban. The sampling schedule reached up to 72 hours, however, the residual area was still evaluated and 
found to be lower than 20% for all subjects indicating that the duration of sampling was sufficient. 
The population was chosen according to the guidelines. Bioanalytical method had satisfactory performance 
and was adequately validated. The pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were appropriate for a 
single dose study. The 90% confidence intervals for ln-transformed pharmacokinetic variables Cmax, AUC0-t 
and AUC0-∞ were within the conventional bioequivalence range of 80.00% to 125.00%. 
The pharmacokinetic variables for apixaban were comparable between test and reference product. Both 
formulations were well tolerated in the study.  
Additionally, the applicant has requested biowaiver for the 2.5 mg dosage strength. To support the request, a 
justification and results of comparative dissolution tests have been provided. The in vitro dissolution tests 
complimentary to the bioequivalence study comparing the in vitro dissolution similarity between additional 
strength and the test bio-batch over physiological pH range were conducted.  
Comparative dissolution profiles demonstrated that the bio-batch and additional strength of test formulation 
were essentially similar over the physiological pH range. More than 85% of apixaban is dissolved within 15 
minutes at pH 6.8 in Phosphate buffer at rotation speed of 75 rpm (QC media). Calculated similarity factors, 
f2 values suggest the similarity (50<f2 calculated<100) of dissolution profiles in 0.1N HCl and in buffers at 
pH 4.5 and 6.8 when 50 rpm rotation speed has been used. The applicant also included Bootstrap method 
based calculations for f2 to estimate the similarity between the dissolution profiles of the test and reference 
batches. As the computed lower bound of the confidence interval for f2 values were found to be more than 50 
at pH 6.8 and in 0.1N HCl, the dissolution profiles are considered essentially similar. Thus, all criteria for a 
biowaiver according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence have been fulfilled. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 23/28 
 
  
  
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Apixaban Accord 2.5mg and 5mg film-coated tablets are 
considered bioequivalent with Eliquis® 2.5 mg and 5 mg film-coated tablets (by Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer 
EEIG, UK). 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Bleeding 
Important potential risks 
Liver injury 
Missing information 
Severe renal impairment 
Potential risk of bleeding or thrombosis due to overdose or underdose 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
The PRAC Rapporteur, having considered the data submitted, is of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Bleeding 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 4.9, 5.1 and 5.3 of Apixaban SmPC have 
information on this safety concern. 
Section 2, 3 and 4 of Apixaban PIL has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Prescribers Guide, Patient Alert Card 
Liver injury 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of Apixaban SmPC have information on this safety 
concern. 
Section 4 of Apixaban PIL has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Page 24/28 
Potential risk of 
bleeding or 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
 
  
  
 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
thrombosis due to 
overdose or 
underdose 
Section 4.9 of Apixaban SmPC has information on this safety concern. 
Section 3 of Apixaban PIL has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.9 and 5.2 of Apixaban SmPC have information on this safety 
concern. 
Section 2 and 3 of Apixaban PIL has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Severe renal 
impairment 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the basis of 
a bridging report making reference to Eliquis 2.5/5 mg film-coated tablets (Parent PIL 1) and Solifenacin 
succinate 5/10mg film-coated tablets.  The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found 
acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 25/28 
 
  
  
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of apixaban tablets. The reference product Eliquis is indicated for:  
For 2.5 mg: 
Prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have undergone elective hip or knee 
replacement surgery. 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), with 
one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; 
hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT and 
PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
For 5 mg: 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), with 
one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age≥ 75 years; 
hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a two-period, two-treatment cross-over bioequivalence 
study in healthy, adult subjects under fasting conditions design. The study design was considered adequate 
to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. 
Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The 
analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Apixaban Accord met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared 
with Eliquis. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, and 
Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Apixaban Accord is favourable in the following indications: 
• 
Prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have undergone elective hip 
or knee replacement surgery (2.5 mg tablets only). 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 26/28 
 
  
  
• 
• 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); 
age≥ 75 years; hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.   
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe 
apixaban are provided with the following educational material: 
• 
• 
• 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Prescriber Guide 
Patient Alert Cards 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 27/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Key Elements of the Prescriber Guide: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Details of populations potentially at higher risk of bleeding 
Recommended doses and guidance on the posology for different indications 
Recommendations for dose adjustment in at risk populations, including renal or hepatic  impairment 
patients 
Guidance regarding switching from or to Apixaban Accord treatment 
Guidance regarding surgery or invasive procedure, and temporary discontinuation 
Management of overdose situations and haemorrhage 
The use of coagulation tests and their interpretation 
That all patients should be provided with a Patient alert card and be counselled about: 
• Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider 
• Importance of treatment compliance 
• Necessity to carry the Patient alert card with them at all times 
• The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Apixaban Accord if they need 
to  have any surgery or invasive procedure. 
Key Elements of the Patient Alert Card: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider. 
Importance of treatment compliance 
Necessity to carry the Patient alert card with them at all times 
The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Apixaban Accord if they need to 
have  any surgery or invasive procedure. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/322602/2020 
Page 28/28 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
