SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion and scientific discussion on procedures 
which have been finalised before 1 September 2004. For scientific information on procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Inhibition  of  the  renin-angiotensin  system  is  a  well  proven  approach  to  the  treatment  of  arterial 
hypertension. It can be achieved by inhibiting the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) that converts 
angiotensin I into its active form angiotensin II, or by blockade of angiotensin II (type AT1) receptors.  
Aprovel/Karvea  is  an  oral  formulation  containing  irbesartan,  a  selective  antagonist  of  the  AT1 
receptors.  Two  antihypertensive  agents  of  the  same  class  (angiotensin  II  receptor  antagonist)  have 
previously been authorised, losartan and valsartan. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Composition  
The product is available in the form of tablets containing a dose of 75, 150 or 300 mg of irbesartan. 
Tablets  containing  each  dosage  are  identified  by  a  corresponding  code.  The  quantitative  and 
qualitative composition was adequately described. 
The  accelerated  and  long-term  stability  data  demonstrated  the  suitability  and  compatibility  of 
irbesartan with the packaging system (opaque blister pack in polyvinylchloride with a coating of heat 
sealed polyvinylidene chloride). 
Clinical trials formulations 
Both  capsules  and  tablets  were  used  in  clinical  trials.  The  trial  dosage  formulations  including 
injectable and oral solutions and their method of manufacture were adequately described. 
Data from three bioequivalence studies showed that irbesartan tablets and capsules used in the clinical 
trials were bioequivalent. 
Development pharmaceutics 
Irbesartan  was  successfully  formulated  into  a  stable,  immediate  release  tablet.  The  excipients  were 
selected on the basis of their functionality and compatibility with the active substance. 
Irbesartan  is  a  non-hygroscopic  white  or  whitish  crystalline  powder  with  low  solubility  in  water  
(< 0.1 mg/ml at 25°C). Although irbesartan solubility is low, solubility in the gastrointestinal tract is 
adequate. 
The irbesartan bulk drug substance is well compressible and compactible. 
Manufacture of the product 
Tablets are manufactured by conventional pharmaceutical tabletting methods. 
The manufacturing process for irbesartan was validated by the manufacture of seven batches (90 kg) at 
the commercial site in Evansville, USA. Based on the results from the validation studies, one lot was 
manufactured  at  full  production  scale  (270  kg)  in  Evansville,  USA.  Additionally,  three  batches 
(125 kg) were manufactured at the commercial site in Ambares, France. Tablets of all three strengths 
manufactured at the USA and France sites were compressed without incident. All the tablets properties 
presented are satisfactory. 
Control of starting materials 
Active substance 
Irbesartan  is  manufactured  by  Sanofi  Chimie,  Aramon,  France;  Bristol-Myers  Squibb,  Humacao, 
Puerto  Rico;  Orgamol,  Switzerland  and  Swords,  UK.  Quality  control  and  release  of  irbesartan  takes 
place  in  the  USA  and  in  France.  A  Drug  Master  File  was  prepared  in  which  the  whole  synthesis  is 
1/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sufficiently  described  in  the  confidential  part.  The  open  part  of  the  Drug  Master  File  contains 
information to assure that the manufacture at the proposed commercial site is of high quality. 
The  proposed specifications and routine tests are sufficiently described in the dossier, in accordance 
with the established quality and backed up by the results presented in the batch analysis. 
The profile of impurities has been established on the basis of an analysis of 16 industrial batches. The 
manufacture of irbesartan by the proposed commercial process contains trace levels of impurities. The 
results support the consistency of the manufacturing process, which allows irbesartan to be obtained 
with the established quality. 
Degradation  impurities  were  detected  during  the  product  development  phase.  They  were  present  in 
batches  used  in  toxicity  and  safety  studies.  These  impurities  have  not  been  detected  in  batches 
produced by the industrial process.  
Control tests on the finished product 
The specifications proposed at release and at the end of shelf-life are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product. 
The  results  of  the  analysis  of  6  batches  containing  a  dose  of  75  mg,  8  batches  containing  a  dose  of 
150 mg and 8 batches containing a dose of 300 mg manufactured in Evansville, USA and one batch of 
each dose manufactured in Ambares, France were submitted. All batches were found to be within the 
specifications. 
Stability 
Stability of the active substance 
Seven batches were studied, three of which were from pilot scale production and four industrial scale. 
The analytical methods are correctly described and demonstrate stability. 
Stress condition studies demonstrated that irbesartan is stable in various conditions. 
Results  of  long  term  and  accelerated  studies  showed  that  irbesartan  is  stable  and  does  not  require 
special handling or storage conditions.  
Stability of the finished product 
Long-term stability was studied in four batches of 75 mg irbesartan tablets, 3 batches of 150 mg and 
4 batches of 300 mg all manufactured from five 90 kg batches produced in Evansville, USA. Results 
from batches stored for 18 months at 25°C ± 2°C/60% ± 5% RH, for 12 months at 30°C ± 2°C/60% 
± 5% RH, and for six months at 40°C ± 2°C/75%  ± 5% RH were presented. Results were also given 
for 30 days under light in both conditions. 
These data showed that all tablets comply with the specifications proposed in all storage conditions, 
and support a proposed shelf-life of 24 months, packaged in blister packs stored at temperatures up to 
30°C. Results of long-term stability studies of the finished productwere submitted after the marketing 
authorisation and supported a shelf-life of 36 months. 
3. 
Part III: Toxicological and pharmacological aspects 
All  pivotal  toxicokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  compliance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practice 
following Good Laboratory Practice and CPMP guidelines. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic effects of irbesartan were investigated in vitro and in vivo in various animals 
species,  including  rodents,  rabbits,  dogs  and  macaques.  The  macaque  was  used  because  of  its  more 
active  basal  renin  angiotensin  system.  Saralasin  (an  antagonist  of  both  AT1  and  AT2  receptors)  and 
losartan (a selective AT1 receptor antagonist) were used as reference substances. 
2/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an extensive battery of in vitro tests in several animal species, irbesartan showed a high affinity and 
selective antagonism to the angiotensin II subtype AT1 receptor. The affinity of irbesartan for the AT1 
receptor  was  of  the  same  order  as  that  of  saralasin,  and  approximately  10-fold  higher  than  that  of 
losartan  (IC50  irbesartan  1nM,  IC50  losartan  10  nM).  Irbesartan  had  very  low  affinity  for  the  AT2 
subtype,  negligible  affinity  for  various  other  neurotransmitter  or  endogenous  peptide  receptors,  and 
did not inhibit renin or angiotensin-converting enzyme. 
Tests  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  in  several  animal  species  showed  that  irbesartan  antagonizes 
angiotensin II-induced vasoconstrictor and pressor responses whereas in some experimental models it 
acted like a non-competitive antagonist. 
Studies showed that irbesartan induces elevation of plasma renin and decrease of plasma aldosterone. 
No negative effects on renal function were shown.  
Irbesartan inhibited the growth stimulating effect of angiotensin II on rat vascular smooth muscle cells 
more effectively than losartan.  
Irbesartan  produced  a  long-lasting  hypotensive  effect  in  hypertensive  animals  and  also  slightly 
reduced blood pressure in normotensive animals.  
A  fair  correlation  was  found  between  individual  plasma  drug  concentration  and  inhibition  of  the 
angiotensin-II pressor response, but the hypotensive effect did not correlate with plasma drug levels. 
Irbesartan did not show any agonist activity. 
No untoward organ system effects were noticed with irbesartan at doses which effectively block AT1 
receptors. 
Irbesartan was characterised as a nonpeptide orally effective potent and selective AT1 antagonist with 
almost no pharmacological effect not related to AT1 blockade. Animal studies do not currently support 
any indication other than hypertension.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Metabolism and disposition of irbesartan were investigated in mice, rats, rabbits and macaques. 
Absorption  
In all species, irbesartan was rapidly absorbed. Maximum plasma concentrations were reached within 
0.5-6 hours. During repeated administration, steady state was achieved within 8 days. No significant 
accumulation was observed. 
In both rats and macaques, the pharmacokinetics of irbesartan were characterised by a large volume of 
distribution,  a  low  plasma  clearance  and  a  relatively  long  terminal  half-life.  AUC  (area  under  the 
curve) and Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) increased less than proportionally above 30 mg/kg. 
The absorption of irbesartan appeared to be nonlinear and saturable at high doses. Sufficient plasma 
concentrations were however reached in toxicity studies. Bioavailability in rats was low (10-20%). In 
macaques,  absolute  bioavailability  was  higher,  74%  after  10  mg/kg  oral  dose,  but  variable,  and  was 
similar to that found in humans (61-82%).  
Distribution in normal and pregnant animals 
Irbesartan was widely distributed. No unusual retention of radioactivity in tissues other than liver and 
kidney was noted. Small amounts of radioactivity were transferred to rat and rabbit embryos or fetuses 
and also excreted in milk of lactating rats. In rats, enterohepatic circulation after oral dosing was 9-14 
%. 
Plasma protein binding was linear over the 0.01 and 50 mg/l range which includes therapeutic levels 
(92-96%  in  rats  and  macaques  and  90-92%  in  humans).  The  binding  was  saturable  at  higher 
concentrations. 
3/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation  
Irbesartan  was  the  main  circulating  active  principle,  although  several  minor  active  metabolites  were 
formed.  In  plasma,  unchanged  irbesartan  accounted  in  rat,  macaque  and  rabbit  for  67-95%,  51-67% 
and  14-68%  respectively  of  the  administered  radioactivity.  In  mice,  irbesartan  accounted  for  only 
3-12%  of  plasma  radioactivity  and  the  main  circulating  compound  was  a  N-dealkyl  derivative  of 
irbesartan.  
Irbesartan  was  metabolised  by  oxidation  and  glucuronidation.  The  overall  pathways  within  different 
species  yielded  18  different  metabolites  detected  in  bile,  urine,  faeces  and  also  in  small  amounts  in 
plasma.  All  metabolites  identified  in  humans  were  detected  in  the  different  biological  media, 
suggesting  that  animals  in  the  toxicological  studies  were  exposed  to  all  human  metabolites.  The 
metabolic profile of irbesartan in rat and macaque is comparable to that in humans. 
The cytochrome P450 2C9 isoform was mainly responsible for the oxidation of irbesartan. The lack of 
metabolism by CYP 2D6 provides strong evidence that irbesartan metabolism would not be subject to 
genetic polymorphism. 
Excretion  
The  main  elimination  route  in  all  animal  species  investigated  was  glucuronidation  followed  by 
excretion in the urine only in small amounts (up to 15% of excreted radioactivity in macaque). 
In  most species,  irbesartan was  mainly excreted in  feces, with  more than  80%  of  a radioactive  dose 
recovered within 24-48 hours. 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  are  the  weakest  part  of  the  preclinical  dossier.  Most  quantitative 
pharmacokinetic parameters are not reliable due to lack of statistical power. However irbesartan was 
well  defined  in  qualitative  terms  as  a  drug  with  good  oral  bioavailability  (in  macaques)  and  which 
does  not  accumulate.  Identification  of  metabolites  was  adequately  done,  showing  that  no  major 
metabolites  are  formed.  Enterohepatic  circulation  of  irbesartan  was  demonstrated  in  rats  (10%)  and 
macaques. 
Rat and macaque proved to have similar pharmacokinetics as humans and these species were used for 
the major toxicology studies. 
Toxicology 
The toxicological effects of irbesartan were assessed using a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo 
studies.  Since  hydrochlorothiazide  is  a  frequently  co-administered  drug  in  hypertension,  several 
combination toxicity studies were also conducted.  
The oral route was selected for the majority of the toxicological studies. 
All  batches  of  irbesartan  used  in  the  toxicological  studies  were  fully  characterised  with  regard  to 
identity and purity and  are  considered  representative of the drug product to  be  marketed  for clinical 
use. 
Single dose toxicity 
The  toxicity  of  irbesartan  after  single  administration  was  investigated  after  oral,  intravenous  or 
intraperitoneal administration in rodents. These studies indicate a low acute toxicity of irbesartan. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
The main repeated oral dose toxicity studies were conducted in Sprague Dawley rat, macaque and 
mouse for up to 1 year using a wide range of doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day.  
Irbesartan was well tolerated up to 500 mg/kg/day for 6 months in rats, and 1 year in macaques. Many 
of the observed effects were related to the pharmacodynamic activity of irbesartan, like dose-related 
decreases in blood pressure and hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular apparatus (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg, in 
macaques  ≥  10  mg/kg),  which  has  also  been  reported  for  other  angiotensin  II  type  AT1  receptor 
inhibitors and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. 
4/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan  caused  slight  changes  in  hematology  (decreased  hemoglobin,  hematocrit  and  erythrocyte 
count) and blood chemistry (decreased total protein, increased urea, creatinine and potassium). These 
changes were not observed routinely at the lowest doses and were generally evident at the dose level 
of 90 mg/kg per day in rats and macaques. 
In rats but not in macaques, irbesartan induced a dose-dependent increase in blood glucose. Irbesartan 
reduced heart weight in both species, an effect also observed with losartan. 
Toxicokinetics data obtained during these studies confirmed that the exposure levels were adequate in 
rats  and  macaque.  Based  on  mean  plasma  irbesartan  AUC0-24h  values,  comparison  of  exposure 
observed at 500 mg/kg/day with that obtained in humans at the maximum dose of 300 mg/day gave an 
exposure ratio between 2.4-6.3 in rats and 16 in macaques.  
Reproductive toxicity studies 
Reproductive  toxicity  of  irbesartan  was  studied  in  rats  and  rabbits  following  oral  administration. 
Reproduction studies revealed that irbesartan, when given during gestation, causes slight development 
toxicity (hydroureter, subcutaneous edema) in rat fetus and increased incidence of abortions and post-
implantation  loss  in  rabbits  at  doses  that  induced  maternal  toxicity.  When  given  during  lactation, 
irbesartan induced a slight retardation in body weight gain of offspring. Similar effects were observed 
with other AT1 receptor inhibitors and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. As a precautionary 
measure,  irbesartan  should  preferably  not  be  used  during  first  trimester  of  pregnancy.  In  the  second 
and  third  trimesters,  substances  that  act  directly  on  the  renin-angiotensin-system  can  cause  foetal  or 
neonatal  renal  failure,  foetal  skull  hypoplasia  and  even  foetal  death;  therefore,  irbesartan  is 
contraindicated  in  the  second  and  third  trimesters  of  pregnancy.  Aprovel/Karvea  is  contraindicated 
during lactation. 
Genotoxic potential 
The genotoxic potential of irbesartan as well as the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide 
was studied in an adequate battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. No mutagenic or clastogenic effect was 
observed. 
Carcinogenicity studies  
The carcinogenic potential was assessed in two 104-week studies in mice and rats.  
No  carcinogenic  potential  was  observed  in  either  species  given  maximally  tolerated  doses 
(1000 mg/kg/day in mice and female rats or 500 mg/kg/day in male rats). 
The AUC based exposure levels were over 4-fold higher in mice at 1000 mg/kg, over 2-fold higher at 
500  mg/kg  in  rats,  and  over  20-fold  higher  at  1000  mg/kg  (female  rats)  than  that  of  humans  at 
300 mg/day. 
Local tolerance  
Irbesartan did not show any phototoxic or photoallergic reactions in the guinea pig. Irbesartan was not 
irritating to the eye or the skin in the rabbit. 
Special toxicity studies  
A combination  study where pregnant rats were given irbesartan  with  hydrochlorothiazide  during the 
organogenetic period showed similar effects as after administration of irbesartan alone.  
Ecotoxicity and environmental risk assessment  
The risk of an environmental impact from the use of irbesartan is of no concern. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects  
Clinical pharmacology  
A  clinical  pharmacology  program  was  completed  in  over  600  subjects,  including  healthy  volunteers 
and patients with hypertension. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  irbesartan  in  humans  was  established  through  single  and  multiple 
5/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose studies. 
In  healthy  volunteers,  two  randomised,  single  blind,  placebo-controlled  studies  were  carried  out  in 
order  to  evaluate  the  duration  and  level  of  inhibition  of  irbesartan  on  the  effects  of  angiotensin  II. 
Single  doses  of  irbesartan  of  5  mg  to  300  mg  dose-dependently  inhibited  the  pressor  and  heart  rate 
responses  induced  by  exogenous  angiotensin  II.  The  peak  inhibition  was  84-100%  at  75,  150  and 
300 mg, with a peak inhibitory effect between 2 and 4 hours. The inhibition lasted for up to 24-36h at 
doses ≥ 50 mg.  
In another study in salt depleted healthy subjects, irbesartan had a significant hypotensive effect. Mean 
arterial  pressure  (MAP)  changes  from  pre-dosing  levels  were  -  10.9  and  -18.8  mm  Hg  at  25  and 
50 mg, respectively. 
Repeated administration in healthy subjects at high doses (up to 900 mg daily) induced a slight, non-
significant decrease (-8.8/-8.5 mm Hg) from baseline in supine BP (blood pressure). 
In  patients  with  mild  or  moderate  essential  hypertension  (DBP  95  to  110  mm  Hg),  treatment  with 
irbesartan 100 mg and 300 mg once daily orally for up to 4 weeks decreased systolic blood pressure 
(SBP)  and  diastolic  blood  pressure  (DBP)  without  altering  heart  rate.  The  effect  was  sustained  over 
24  hours.  The  trough  to  peak  ratio  was  0.99  for  the  100  mg  dose  and  0.63  for  the  300  mg  dose. 
Irbesartan  induced  an  expected  dose  dependent  increase  in  both  plasma  angiotensin  II  and  plasma 
renin  activity.  Excretion  of  aldosterone  was  significantly  lower  in  the  irbesartan  groups  than  in  the 
placebo groups. Urinary excretion of sodium, creatinine, potassium and chloride was not modified in 
the study using 300 mg of irbesartan.  
Combination  with  25  mg  of  hydrochlorothiazide  was  studied  in  patients  with  mild  or  moderate 
essential  hypertension  following  the  administration  of  150  mg  irbesartan  over  a  7  days  period. 
Association of hydrochlorothiazide with irbesartan  increased the plasma  levels of  angiotensin II and 
plasma renin more than irbesartan alone. The reduction in SBP and DBP was greater in the irbesartan-
hydrochlorothiazide  group  than  that  produced  by  irbesartan-placebo  group,  the  difference  being 
statistically  significant.  The  association  of  hydrochlorothiazide  produced  a  greater  excretion  of 
sodium, potassium and chloride than in the group that received irbesartan alone. No differences were 
observed between groups in the excretion of creatinine and aldosterone.  
Irbesartan did not affect glomerular filtration rate or effective renal blood flow, but transiently reduced 
renal vascular resistance in hypertensive patients. 
Irbesartan  also  inhibited  the  renal  effects  of  exogenous  angiotensin  II  (i.e.,  increase  in  filtration 
fraction and renal vascular resistance, decrease in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma 
flow,  decrease  in  glomerular  permselectivity  and  ultrafiltration  coefficient,  increase  in  glomerular 
transcapillary pressure gradient). 
Irbesartan was confirmed as an orally active antagonist of the angiotensin II AT1 receptors by blocking 
its  effects,  such  as  aldosterone  secretion  and  vasoconstriction.  No  agonist  activity  was  observed.  It 
does  not  require  biotransformation  into  an  active  form  for  its  antihypertensive  activity.  Increases  in 
plasma angiotensin II levels and renin activity are detected after administration of irbesartan following 
loss  of  negative  feed-back  mediated  by  AT1  receptors.  Plasma  and  urinary  aldosterone  levels  are 
decreased.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of irbesartan were studied after oral single and repeated doses. 
The  data  showed  that  irbesartan  is  absorbed  rapidly  with  Cmax  (maximum  plasma  concentration) 
achieved within 1 to 3.5 h. Plasma concentration of irbesartan increased linearly up to 600  mg dose 
level. Thereafter the absorption appeared to reach a plateau with increasing doses.  
After  300  mg  dose,  the  mean  estimated  bioavailability  across  several  studies  was  60-80%  and  not 
affected by food. Since the two lower strength tablets to be marketed (75 and 150 mg) are direct scale 
downs of the 300 mg formulation and have comparable in vitro dissolution profiles, the bioavailibility 
of all three strengths of the proposed commercial tablet formulation can be expected to be similar. 
In  the  initial  application,  Irbesartan  binding  to  serum  proteins  was  90-92%  over  the  concentration 
range  achieved  with  the  proposed  therapeutic  doses.  After  the  marketing  authorization,  the  MAH 
6/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conducted  a  new  in  vitro  study  with  a  more  specific  method  and  a  higher  number  of  subject  which 
showed  that  plasma  protein  binding  is  approximately  96%  instead  of  90%.  This  change  was 
considered to have no impact on the clinical use of Irbesartan as its clinical safety and efficacy have 
been well established. 
The apparent steady state volume of distribution is 53-93 l. Total body clearance is 157-176 ml/min 
with a renal clearance of 3-3.5 ml/min. Elimination half-life ranged from 11 to 15 h. During once daily 
repeated  administration,  steady state is  achieved within  3  days and limited (< 20%)  accumulation is 
observed. 
The  metabolic  profile  in  humans  is  similar  to  that  of  rats  and  macaques.  The  cytochrome  P450 
isozyme, CYP2C9 is  mainly responsible for the oxidation of irbesartan. Unchanged irbesartan is the 
main  circulating  compound  accounting  for  80%  of  total  radioactivity  following  administration  of 
radioactive  irbesartan.  Small  amounts  of  several  metabolites  can  also  be  detected  in  plasma  (mainly 
irbesartan  glucuronide  up  to  6%  and  the  carboxylic  acid  derivative  up  to  9%  of  total  radioactivity). 
Irbesartan  and  its  metabolites  are  excreted  by  both  biliary  and  renal  routes.  Following  oral  or 
intravenous administration, urinary and fecal recoveries were about 20-24% and 54-65%, respectively. 
Less than 2% of the administered dose of irbesartan was detected as intact drug in urine. 
Irbesartan did not significantly affect the steady state pharmacokinetics of digoxin.  
Both  irbesartan  and  warfarin  are  metabolised  by  CYP2C9  indicating  a  possibility  of  metabolic 
interactions.  In  vitro  studies  indicated  that  warfarin  inhibits  metabolism  of  irbesartan  in  a  dose-
dependent  manner  (at  concentrations  of  10-100  µM),  but  this  effect  was  not  studied  in  vivo. 
Prothrombin  time  ratio  values  were  not  affected  by  concomitant  administration  of  irbesartan  and 
warfarin in healthy subjects, but this does not exclude the possibility for metabolic interactions with 
warfarin in clinical use. 
The effect of other CYP2C9 inducers on the pharmacokinetics is not known. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  irbesartan  were  not  affected  by  co-administration  of  nifedipine  or 
hydrochlorothiazide in vivo. The plasma concentration and elimination half-life were 20-25% higher 
in blacks, while Cmax was comparable between blacks and whites. 
After the marketing authorisation, two studies (one pharmacokinetic and one pharmacodynamic) have 
been  conducted  to  test  for  a  potential  interaction  between  irbesartan  and  acenocoumarol  (4  mg). 
Nevertheless, due to few reports of suspected drug interactions between irbesartan and any coumarin-
like  medication,  and  the  low  dose  of  acenocoumarol  used  in  the  pharmacodynamic  study,  no  final 
conclusion can be currently decided. 
No  effect  of  irbesartan  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  simvastatin  was  shown  in  another  post-
authorisation  study.  Such  interaction  was  theorically  not  expected  based  on  metabolic  profiles  of 
irbesartan and HMGCoA-reductase inhibitors. 
In  elderly  normotensive  subjects  (65-90  years)  with  normal  renal  and  hepatic  function,  the  plasma 
concentration AUC and Cmax were 20% and 50% greater than those observed in younger subjects (18-
40 years), while the elimination half-life was comparable.  
In  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  cirrhosis,  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  irbesartan  were  not 
significantly altered. Studies were not performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Pharmacokinetics of irbesartan were not significantly affected in patients with impaired renal function. 
In  hypertensive  subjects,  Cmax  and  AUC  of  irbesartan  were  respectively  25%  and  44%  higher  in 
women  compared  with  men.  However,  following  multiple  dosing,  men  and  women  did  not  show 
differences in either accumulation or elimination half-life.  
On  the  whole,  the  clinical  pharmacokinetics  program  was  well  conducted  and  comprehensive.  The 
results justify the intended use of the drug. Irbesartan is absorbed after oral administration, does not 
accumulate and no major active metabolites are formed. The blood pressure lowering effect is similar 
when  the  same  total  daily  dose  is  given  either  once  or  twice  daily.  The  relevance  of  the  observed 
pharmacokinetic differences in relation to gender are not likely to be relevant. 
7/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical experience 
The clinical development program has been adequately conducted including 2500 patients with mild 
to moderate hypertension (DBP 95 to 110 mm Hg) and 121 patients with severe hypertension (DBP 
115-130 mm Hg), treated with irbesartan. Aside from the two pilot dose finding studies and the long-
term extensions, the duration of the studies ranged from 8 to 24 weeks. No studies on the effects of 
irbesartan on mortality/morbidity have been submitted. 
Clinical experience on irbesartan relevant to the proposed indication is based on 16 studies: 
Study 
reference 
number  
ACT1967 
CV131-001 
CV131-002 
CV131-025 
CV131-050 
CV131-029 
CV131-030 
CV131-039 
CV131-038 
CV131-037 
CV131-040 
CV131-027 
CV131-028 
CV131-031 
CV131-032 
CV131-033 
Description  
Duration of 
treatment  
Number of 
patients 
Pilot dose finding  
Pilot dose finding  
Pilot dose ranging 
Dose ranging 
Dose ranging 
Placebo controlled 
Placebo controlled  
Placebocontrolled 
Placebo and hydrochlorothiazide controlled  
Placebo and hydrochlorothiazide controlled 
Placebo and hydrochlorothiazide controlled 
Atenolol controlled 
Enalapril controlled 
Amlodipine controlled (elderly)  
Enalapril controlled in severe hypertension 
Renal failure  
6 days 
7 days 
8 weeks  
10 weeks 
8 weeks 
12 weeks 
8 weeks 
8 weeks 
12 weeks 
8 weeks 
12 weeks 
24 weeks  
12 weeks  
24 weeks  
12 weeks 
12 weeks  
86 
77 
570 
319 
524 
319 
215 
178 
815 
683 
238 
231 
202 
188 
182 
100 
These trials (excluding ACT1967, CV131-032, -033, -040) included a placebo lead-in phase of at least 
4  weeks  following  withdrawal  of  previous  antihypertensive  medications  to  ensure  stability  of  blood 
pressure and to assess baseline status. 
The primary efficacy variable was the mean change from baseline in seated diastolic blood pressure 
(seDBP), with the exception of two pilot studies where it was supine DBP (CV131-001) or supine and 
standing DBP and SBP (ACT1967).  
Secondary  variables  were:  seated  systolic  blood  pressure  (seSBP),  trough  to  peak  ratio  for  the 
antihypertensive effect, the proportion of subjects who achieved normalised seDBP (< 90 mm Hg) at 
trough  (24h  post-dose),  and  changes  in  standing  diastolic  (stDBP)  and  systolic  (stSBP)  blood 
pressures.  
Study  subjects  were  monitored  for  the  appearance  of  clinical  adverse  events  and  laboratory  test 
abnormalities.  Questionnaires  were  also  used  in  order  to  evaluate  health  status.  Blood  samples  for 
hematological  and  biochemical  analyses  were  obtained  prior  to  enrollment  and  randomization,  and 
were repeated at least every 8 weeks throughout the studies. Creatine kinase levels were measured at 
baseline and periodically throughout the placebo-controlled trials. Creatine kinase was also measured 
in any subject with unexplained  muscle  pain. Heart  rates were  monitored in all studies.  Ambulatory 
electrocardiographic monitoring was performed in a subset of patients at baseline, during the double-
blind  phase  and  during  the  withdrawal  phase  in  study  CV131-050.  Electrocardiograms  and  chest 
X-rays were obtained at study entry and at completion. In several studies, funduscopic examinations 
were recorded at baseline and at the end of the study. 
Uniform  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  resulted  in  comparable  subject  populations  among  the 
individual  placebo  controlled  studies  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hypertension.  In  general, 
subjects  were  in  their  early  to  mid-fifties  (range  21-85  years),  over  80%  were  white,  and  over  50% 
were male. 
8/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose-finding studies 
The  five  dose-finding studies  were  all of similar design: randomised, double-blind,  parallel, placebo 
controlled, in patients with mild to moderate essential arterial hypertension. The treatment phase was 
preceded by a period of 4-5 weeks with placebo. 
The  overall  results  indicate  that  irbesartan  administered  once  daily  at  doses  of  1-900  mg  produces 
dose-dependent reduction in DBP and SBP with statistically significant reduction in SeDBP  (versus 
placebo) with a 50 mg dose and a flattening from 300 mg to 900 mg. Testing over a wide dose range 
was  possible  with  irbesartan  because  of  the  absence  of  dose-limiting  side  effects,  even  at  doses 
associated with the apparent plateau of the antihypertensive effect. 
Placebo controlled trials 
Study  CV131-029  and  study  CV131-030  were  multicentre,  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo-
controlled trials in patients with hypertension (DBP 95-110 mm Hg). 
In study CV131-029, patients were randomised into three groups: 
• 
• 
• 
104  patients  to  irbesartan  75  mg  once  daily  and  increased  dose  to  150  once  daily  at 
6 weeks if DBP > 90 mm Hg 
98  patients  to  irbesartan  150  mg  once  daily  and  increased  dose  to  300  once  daily  at 
6 weeks if DBP > 90 mm Hg 
117 patients to placebo 
Statistically  significant  reductions  compared  to  placebo  in  both  DPB  and  SBP  were  observed  for 
trough and  peak BP at week 12. At each time point, for each blood  pressure parameter, the 150  mg 
dose  regimen  produced  greater  decreases  than  75  mg  irbesartan  dose  regimen.  Of  these  who 
completed  week  12  of  double  blind  treatment,  at  least  50%  of  the  subjects  on  each  treatment  group 
had  DBP  ≥  90  mm  Hg  and  were  titrated  to  double  their  initial  randomised  dose.  The  greatest 
percentage (89%) were titrated in the placebo group and the smallest (53%) occurred in the irbesartan 
150 mg dose regimen. 65 % of patients randomised to irbesartan 75 mg were titrated to 150 mg.  
In  study  CV131-030,  the  primary  objective  was  to  determine  the  reduction  in  the  mean  24-hour 
Ambulatory DBP from baseline to the end of 8 weeks of treatment in subjects with hypertension (DBP 
95-110 mm Hg and a mean 24-hour Ambulatory DBP ≥ 85 mm Hg).  
Patients were randomised into four groups: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
55 patients to irbesartan 75 mg once daily 
53 patients to irbesartan 150 mg once daily 
57 patients to irbesartan 75 mg twice daily 
44 patients to placebo 
Statistically  significant  reductions  compared  to  placebo  in  24-hour  Ambulatory  DBP  and  SBP  were 
observed at week 8. There was a larger reduction in the group administered 150 mg once daily. The 75 
mg twice daily showed nearly identical results in the 24-hour Ambulatory DBP as compared to 150 
mg once daily.  
Considering  the  seven  main  placebo-controlled  trials  and  using  the  placebo-subtracted  trough  blood 
pressure values, a decrease in the range of 8-10/5-6 mmHg and 8-13/5-8 mmHg were observed with 
irbesartan 150 mg and 300 mg respectively. A normalisation rate of seDBP (< 90 mmHg) was reached 
in 60% of the patients. The blood pressure normalisation rate at doses of ≤ 75 mg was not significantly 
different from placebo (20-25%). The blood pressure normalisation rate was significantly increased at 
doses of ≥ 150 mg. 
The antihypertensive effect of irbesartan was evident after the first dose, increased substantially by 2 
weeks and reached the maximum within 4-6 weeks. Trough to peak ratios were generally > 60% with 
150 mg once daily. Ambulatory BP monitoring confirmed that similar effects were achieved whether 
irbesartan was administered in the morning or in the evening. The 150 mg dose reduced the mean 24h 
ambulatory  BP  consistently  more  than  placebo.  No  blood  pressure  increases  were  observed  after 
9/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
withdrawal of irbesartan.  
In  summary,  the  documentation  and  further  clarifications  provided  by  the  applicant  support  the  150 
mg  dosage  as  the  usual  recommended  initial  and  maintenance  dose.  Although  clinically  and 
in  BP  were  achieved  with  doses  ≥  75  mg,  consistent 
statistically  significant  reductions 
antihypertensive  effect  was  seen  at  ≥  150  mg  doses  and  were  in  better  accordance  with  the  ICH 
guideline  on  dose  response  information  to  support  drug  registration.  Irbesartan  had  furthermore  no 
dose  related  increases  in  adverse  events  across  the  therapeutic  range  (150  to  300  mg)  including 
hypotension-related first dose effects.  
Controlled studies with active comparators 
Three  randomised,  double-blind,  active  controlled  comparative  studies  with  atenolol  (CV131-027), 
amlodipine  (CV131-031),  enalapril  (CV131-028)  were  conducted  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate 
hypertension. One study (CV131-032) was conducted in patients with severe hypertension. 
In study CV131-027, 231 patients were randomized to receive either irbesartan 75 mg or atenolol 50 
mg once daily for 24 weeks. At week 6 the dose of the study was doubled if seDBP was = 90 mmHg. 
At  week  12,  or  any  time  thereafter,  the  dose  of  the  product  was  doubled  (if  not  done  earlier)  for 
subjects with seDBP = 90 mmHg followed by addition of HCTZ 12.5 mg titrated to 25 mg as needed, 
and  when  needed,  addition  of  sustained  release  nifedipine  20  mg  once  daily.  The  primary  efficacy 
variable  was  the  change  from  baseline  in  trough  seDBP  at  week  12;  changes  were  similar  for  both 
study groups(-12.3 mmHg in the irbesartan group and -11.6 mmHg in the atenolol group). 
In study CV131-028, 202 patients were randomized to receive either irbesartan 75 mg or enalapril 10 
mg once daily for 12 weeks. The doses were doubled at weeks 4 and 8 for subjects with seDBP = 90 
mmHg. The primary efficacy endpoint, change from baseline in trough seDBP at week 12 was similar 
in both groups, -12.7 mmHg for irbesartan and -14 mmHg for enalapril. 
In  study  CV131-031,  188  elderly  patients  were  randomized  to  receive  either  irbesartan  75  mg  or 
amlodipine  5  mg  once  daily  for  24  weeks.  The  doses  were  doubled  at  weeks  6  or  12  or  anytime 
thereafter to week 20 for subjects with seDBP was = 90 mmHg. After 12 weeks, additional open-label 
treatment  with  HCTZ  (12.5  mg  titrated  to  25  mg)  followed  by  atenolol  (50  mg)  once  daily  when 
needed  was  started  to  achieved  se  DBP  <  90  mmHg.  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  change  from 
baseline in trough seDBP at week 12 was significantly larger in the amlodipine group (-14.9 mmHg) 
compared to the irbesartan group (-10.5 mmHg).  
In study CV131-032, 182 patients were randomized with severe essential hypertension. It included a 
withdrawal period of at least 24 h for subjects receiving antihypertensive therapy and a placebo lead-in 
period lasting a maximum of 7 days followed by randomization in a 2:1 ratio to receive irbesartan 150 
mg or enalapril 20 mg once daily for 12 weeks. The dose for both products was doubled for subjects 
with seDBP = 106 mmHg at the end of week 1 or seDBP =90 mmHg at the end of week 2. Thereafter, 
at  each  study  visit,  adjunctive  open-label  antihypertensive  therapy  (HCTZ/nifedipine/atenolol)  was 
added  if  seDBP  =  90  mmHg.  The  change  from  baseline  in  trough  seDBP  at  week  12  (the  primary 
efficacy  outcome  measure)  was  similar  in  both  groups;  irbesartan  –29.6  mmHg  and  enalapril  –30.5 
mmHg. 
At  doses  of  75  and  150  mg  of  irbesartan,  efficacy  was  comparable  to  those  of  50  and  100  mg  of 
atenolol. At doses of 75, 150 mg and 300 mg of irbesartan, efficacy was comparable to those of 10, 20 
and 40 mg of enalapril in subjects with mild to moderate and also in severe hypertension patients. In 
elderly  subjects,  BP  responses  were  similar  between  amlodipine  5  mg  and  irbesartan  150  mg,  but 
amlodipine 10 mg was more effective than irbesartan at 150 mg.  
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide 
Studies  CV131-037,  CV131-038,  CV131-039  and  CV131-40  were  multicentre,  randomised,  double 
blind and placebo controlled trials. 
These  indicated  that  combination  of  irbesartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  lead  to  further  reductions  in 
DBP and SBP than when the drugs were given separately.  
Patients with hypertension and renal insufficiency 
Study  CV131-033  was  a  non-comparative  study  in  patients  with  hypertension  and  severe  renal 
10/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
insufficiency. Results indicated that lower doses of irbesartan (75 mg) should be considered in patients 
undergoing haemodialysis. 
Long-term efficacy data 
The long-term open-label extension studies of the double-blind studies (CV131-002, -025, -027, - 028, 
-029, -031, -037, -038) confirmed sustained efficacy for more than 1 year.  
Demographic subgroups 
There  were  no  significant  differences  in  the  antihypertensive  effect  of  irbesartan  between  men  and 
women, elderly (≥ 65 years) and younger subjects, and between subjects with baseline seDBP < or  ≥ 
100 mmHg. 
Diminished  BP  responses  were  generally  observed  with  black  subjects  when  compared  with  whites. 
This  has  also  been  reported  with  other  antihypertensive  drugs  inducing  renin  angiotensin  system 
(RAS)  antagonism  (beta-blockers,  angiotensin  converting  enzyme  inhibitors,  losartan).  However, 
during long-term treatment of irbesartan with concomitant hydrochlorothiazide, BP responses in black 
subjects  approached  those  of  white  subjects  suggesting  that  irbesartan  might  be  more  effective  in 
black subjects whose RAS is activated. 
In  the  case  of  salt  depleted  patients,  sodium  and/or  volume  depletion  should  be  corrected  before 
initiation of treatment with irbesartan.  
Although dose-adjustment is not usually necessary for the elderly, since this group of patients may be 
more sensitive, consideration should be given to initiate therapy with 75 mg in patients over 75 years 
of age. 
Safety 
The  integrated  summary  of  safety  for  irbesartan  monotherapy  and  irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination therapy is based on the analysis of the profile of clinical adverse events and laboratory 
abnormalities in 5849 subjects enrolled in 49 completed clinical studies. A total of 4925 subjects were 
exposed  to  irbesartan.  Of  these,  over  900  were  elderly  over  65  years  and  150  were  over  75  years. 
Approximately 1300 hypertensive subjects were treated with irbesartan for over 6 months and 400 for 
over 1 year. 
Dose response and placebo controlled monotherapy studies 
The overall incidence of adverse events was 56.2% in irbesartan treated subjects and 56.5% in placebo 
treated subjects.  
The  most  common  adverse  events  in  subjects  receiving  irbesartan  were  headache  (12.3%),  upper 
respiratory infection (8.5%), musculoskeletal pain (6.6 %), dizziness (4.9%) and fatigue (4.3%). These 
events  occurred  with  a  similar  incidence  in  the  placebo  group  except  for  headache,  which  occurred 
more  frequently  in  subjects  receiving  placebo  (16.7%).  Musculoskeletal  trauma  and  flushing  were 
reported infrequently, but occurred significantly more often in the irbesartan than in the placebo group 
(1.9%  vs.  0.5%  and  0.6%  vs.  0%,  respectively).  The  incidence  for  hypotension  and  orthostatic 
hypotension was 0.4% in subjects treated with irbesartan and 0.2% in those treated with placebo.  
The  overall incidence of serious adverse events was 1.0% in irbesartan-treated subjects and 1.9% in 
placebo-treated subjects. Serious events occurred most commonly in the cardiovascular system (0.2% 
of  subjects  receiving  irbesartan  and  1.6%  of  subjects  receiving  placebo).  The  only  serious  adverse 
event  occurring  in  more  than  1  irbesartan  treated  subject  was  myocardial  infarction  which  was 
reported in 2 (0.1%) irbesartan treated subjects and 1 (0.2%) placebo-subject.  
The  overall  incidence  of  marked  laboratory  abnormalities  was  similar  between  the  irbesartan  and 
placebo treatment groups. 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide studies 
The  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  similar  between  the  study  groups:  59.1%  in 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  treated  subjects,  58.2%  in  hydrochlorothiazide  monotherapy,  56%  in 
irbesartan monotherapy group and 53.4% in the placebo group.  
The most common adverse events in subjects receiving irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide were headache 
11/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(11%), dizziness (7.6%), fatigue (6.5%), musculoskeletal pain (6.5%) and upper respiratory infection 
(5.6%). These events occurred in a similar incidence in the placebo group except for headache, which 
occurred more frequently in subjects receiving placebo (16.1%), and fatigue, which had a significantly 
lower  incidence  in  the  placebo  group  (3%).  The  incidence  of  nausea/vomiting  and  fatigue  was  also 
significantly higher in irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide treated subjects compared with placebo treated 
subjects.  The  reported  incidences  for  orthostatic  hypotension/dizziness  were  1.6%  in  subjects 
receiving irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, 1% with irbesartan monotherapy, 0.8% in subjects receiving 
hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy and 0.4% in subjects receiving placebo.  
The  overall  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  was  similar  between  study  groups:  1.3%  in 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  treated  subjects,  1.2%  in  irbesartan  monotherapy  group,  1.8%  in 
hydrochlorothiazide  monotherapy  and  0.4%  in  the  placebo  group.  The  only  serious  adverse  event 
occurring  in  more  than  1  irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  treated  subject  was  myocardial  infarction 
which was reported in 2 (0.2%) irbesartan treated subjects and 1 (0.2%) placebo-subject.  
The overall incidence of marked laboratory abnormalities was similar between study groups. 
Active controlled studies  
The  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  similar  between  the  subjects  receiving  irbesartan 
monotherapy  (60%)  and  active  control  (62.7%).  The  most  common  adverse  events  in  subjects 
receiving  irbesartan  were  headache  (10.6%),  fatigue  (7.1%),  dizziness  (5.9%),  and  upper  respiratory 
infection  (5.9%).  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  the  incidence  of  these  events  between 
treatment groups. When looking at each study separately, adverse events occurred more frequently in 
the  atenolol  and  amlodipine  groups  when  compared  with  the  irbesartan  group.  Irbesartan  treated 
subjects  experienced  a  slightly  greater  incidence  of  adverse  events  in  study  CV131-028  when 
compared  with  the  enalapril  group.  However,  in  protocol  CV131-032  in  subjects  with  severe 
hypertension, the incidence of adverse events was considerably lower in the irbesartan group. 
The  overall  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  was  4.7%  in  the  irbesartan  group  and  3.2%  in  the 
active control group. Serious adverse events occuring in the renal/genitourinary system were the most 
common (1.4 % in subject receiving irbesartan and 0.8 % in subjects receiving placebo). 
The overall incidence of marked laboratory abnormalities was similar between study groups. 
Long-term open-label extension studies 
incidence 
The 
or 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was 56.2%. The most common adverse events were upper respiratory 
infection (9.6%), musculoskeletal pain (9.6 %) headache (8.3 %), fatigue (6.3%) and dizziness (5.6%). 
treated  with 
irbesartan 
subjects 
adverse 
events 
2176 
of 
in 
adverse 
Serious 
irbesartan  or 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  The  most  frequently  reported  were  myocardial  infarction  (0.7%), 
invasive cardiac procedure (0.5%) and orthopedic surgery (0.5%).  
events  occurred 
in  4.6%  of 
treated  with 
subjects 
The  most  common  laboratory  abnormalities  were  increased  leukocytes  (3.7%),  increased  creatine 
kinase  (1.6%),  increased  eosinophils  (1.3%),  increased  blood  urea  nitrogen  (1.3%)  and  increased 
triglycerides (1.3%).  
Discontinuation and deaths 
In the dose response and placebo controlled monotherapy studies, a total of 3.3% of irbesartan treated 
and  4.5%  of  placebo-treated  subjects  discontinued  therapy  because  of  adverse  events  during  the 
double-blind  therapy.  The  most  common  events  leading  to  withdrawal  of  study  drug  were  headache 
(0.6%), dizziness (0.3%) and general chest pain (0.3%). One subject receiving irbesartan died during 
the double-blind therapy. The cause of death was cardiorespiratory arrest and myocardial infarction. 
In the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide studies, discontinuations due to adverse events were significantly 
less  frequent  in  the  irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination  group  (3.6%)  compared  with  the 
placebo  group  (6.8%).  The  most  common  events  leading  to  withdrawal  in  subjects  receiving 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  were  headache  (0.7%)  and  dizziness  (0.7%).  One  subject  receiving 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide died during the double-blind therapy due to myocardial infarction.  
In  the  long-term  open-label  extension  studies,  the  most  common  events  contributing  to  study  drug 
withdrawal  were  myocardial  infarction  (0.7%)  and  fatigue  (0.6  %).  A  total  of  3  subjects  (0.1%) 
12/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receiving  irbesartan  died.  The  causes  of  death  were  hemorrhagic  hypovolemic  shock  and 
Goodpasture’s syndrome in subjects receiving irbesartan monotherapy and motor vehicle accident in a 
subject receiving irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy.  
All deaths occurring in these trials were classified as unrelated to study medication.  
A detailed description of every case of myocardial infarction during irbesartan therapy was provided. 
The  following special  warning  was  included in the  Summary of Product  Characteristics: “Excessive 
blood  pressure  decrease  in  patients  with  ischemic  cardiopathy  or  ischemic  cardiovascular  disease 
could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke.” 
Additional analyses revealed that the incidence of adverse events in placebo-controlled studies was 
not affected by age, gender or race. There were no dose-related adverse events between 1 and 300 mg. 
Some  events  occurred  more frequently in  the  > 300  mg  groups, but none  of  these  events were  dose 
limiting. 
First-dose  effects  for  both  the  placebo  controlled  irbesartan  monotherapy  studies  and  the 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  controlled  combination  studies  were  comparable  between  irbesartan 
and  placebo.  Orthostatic hypotension  was reported in 3  (0.2%) subjects  and syncope  in  one (0.1 %) 
subject 
receiving 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy experienced hypotension or syncope as a result of 
the  first  dose.  Overall  the  incidence  of  hypotension  or  its  symptomatic  equivalent  (orthostatic 
hypotension/dizziness, syncope, dizziness and vertigo) was low and similar for subjects treated with 
monotherapy, irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy or placebo. 
irbesartan  monotherapy. 
receiving 
subjects 
None 
the 
of 
The  incidence  of  cough  was  low  (range  0-4.5%  in  all  subjects  receiving  irbesartan)  and  occurred 
similarly  in  subjects  receiving  irbesartan  monotherapy,  irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination 
therapy or placebo. 
An  analysis  of  selected  musculoskeletal  adverse  events  (musculoskeletal  pain,  muscle  ache,  muscle 
cramp  and  myalgia)  revealed  no  differences  between  subjects  treated  with  irbesartan  monotherapy, 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination  therapy  or  placebo.  However  in  placebo-controlled 
monotherapy  studies  the  incidence  of  musculoskeletal  trauma  was  significantly  higher  in  subjects 
receiving irbesartan compared with placebo (1.9% vs. 0.5%). These included events of sprains, strains, 
injury  to  fingers  and  torn  ligaments.  The  differing  types  and  causes  of  these  traumas,  the  similar 
incidence  of  other  musculoskeletal  events  in  the  irbesartan  and  placebo  group  and  the  lack  of 
association  of  these  events  with  dizziness  or  orthostatic  dizziness  suggest  that  the  statistically 
significant  higher  incidence  of  musculoskeletal  trauma  in  irbesartan-treated  subjects  is  most  likely 
spurious and of no clinical relevance.  
The analysis of ECGs in 4 protocols (CV131-002, -025, -050, -057) and ambulatory ECG-monitoring 
(in protocol CV131-050 in a subset of subjects at selected study sites) showed no clinically significant 
changes between subjects receiving irbesartan or placebo or after irbesartan withdrawal.  
In  placebo-controled  studies,  no  evidence  of  clinically  important  adverse  interactions  was  observed 
between 
therapy  and 
concomitant medications including aspirin, acetaminophen, estrogen and ibuprofen. 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination 
irbesartan  monotherapy  or 
In  post-marketing  experience,  as  with  other  angiotensin-II  receptor  antagonists,  rare  cases  of 
hypersensitivity  reactions  (rash,  urticaria,  angioedema)  have  been  reported.  The  following  have  also 
been  reported  very  rarely  during  post-marketing  surveillance:  asthenia,  diarrhoea,  dizziness, 
dyspepsia,  headache,  hyperkalemia,  myalgia,  nausea,  tachycardia,  arthralgia,  tinnitus,  liver  function 
abnormalities, including hepatitis and impaired renal function including isolated cases of renal failure 
in patients at risk. Cases of cough have been reported very rarely with irbesartan. 
5.  
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Overall benefit-risk assessment 
Efficacy of irbesartan in long-term reduction of blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension 
(duration of the studies ranging from 8 to 24 weeks) has been demonstrated. The usual recommended 
13/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
initial and maintenance dose of 150 mg once daily generally provides a better 24 hour blood pressure 
control  than  75  mg.  However,  initiation  of  therapy  with  75  mg  could  be  considered,  particularly  in 
haemodialysed patients and in the elderly over 75 years.  
At  doses  of  75  and  150  mg  of  irbesartan,  efficacy  was  comparable  to  those  of  50  and  100  mg  of 
atenolol. At doses of 75, 150 mg and 300 mg, efficacy was comparable to those of 10, 20 and 40 mg 
of  enalapril  in  subjects  with  mild  to  moderate,  and  also  in  severe  hypertension  patients.  In  elderly 
subjects, BP responses were similar between amlodipine 5 mg and irbesartan 150 mg, but amlodipine 
10 mg was more effective and with a higher number of adverse effects. 
In patients with blood pressure insufficiently controlled with 150 mg once daily of irbesartan, the dose 
can be increased to 300 mg, or other anti-hypertensive agents such hydrochlorothiazide, can be added. 
The long-term effects of irbesartan on target organ damage in hypertension or on mortality are not yet 
known.  
The  toxicity  studies  raised  no  immediate  concern  regarding  the  safety  of  the  product.  Irbesartan  is 
embryotoxic  in  rats  with  the  kidney  as  major  target  organ.    As  precautionary  measure,  irbesartan 
should preferably not be used during first trimester of pregnancy. In the second and third trimesters, 
substances that act directly on the renin-angiotensin-system can cause foetal or neonatal renal failure, 
foetal skull hypoplasia and even foetal death; therefore, irbesartan is contraindicated in the second and 
third trimesters of pregnancy. Aprovel/Karvea is contraindicated during lactation. 
Irbesartan was generally well tolerated in the clinical studies. Its overall safety profile is comparable to 
other  previously  authorised  AT1  receptor  antagonists.  The  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  in  the 
irbesartan treatment groups is not different from the incidence in the placebo group. In most studies, 
there were no adverse events occurring more frequently after irbesartan than in the placebo group. In 
the placebo controlled monotherapy studies, 3.3% of irbesartan-treated subjects and 4.5% of placebo 
treated subjects discontinued the treatment.  
Headache,  dizziness  and  chest  pain  were  the  more  common  reasons  for  discontinuation  in  the 
irbesartan  group  but  discontinuations  due  to  headache  and  dizziness  were  less  common  in  the 
irbesartan group than in the placebo group. Although the incidence was not high (0.7 %) considering 
the treated population, the most common serious adverse event in the irbesartan treatment groups was 
myocardial infarction. 
Conclusions 
Aprovel/Karvea  is  an  oral  formulation  containing  irbesartan,  a  new  selective  antagonist  of  the 
angiotensin II (type AT1) receptor. 
Efficacy  and  safety  data  support  a  favourable  benefit-risk  ratio  for  the  treatment  of  essential 
hypertension.  
The  CPMP  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation  for  this  medicinal 
product. 
6.   New indication for the treatment of renal disease in patients with hypertension and type 2 
diabetes mellitus as part of an antihypertensive drug regimen 
Introduction 
According to the US National Kidney Foundation, diabetes mellitus is the leading cause of End Stage 
Renal Disease (ESRD), accounting for 35% of new cases every year. The prevalence of diabetic renal 
disease in patients who have had type I or type II diabetes for at least 25 years has been reported as 
48% and 57%, respectively. ESRD secondary to type II diabetes has become the single most common 
cause  of  renal  replacement  therapy  throughout  the  Western  world.  Patients  with  advanced  renal 
disease  who  require  dialysis  or  renal  transplantation  have  a  poor  survival  prognosis.  The  annual 
mortality  rate  of  patients  with  diabetic  ESRD  approaches  40%.  Cardiovascular  morbidity  and 
mortality remain  a significant  medical problem  in  diabetic renal  disease, and  therapies to  prevent or 
slow the renal complications of diabetes remain a priority in the management of these patients.  
14/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pathogenesis  and  natural  history  of  diabetic  nephropathy  is  characterised  by  sequential  and 
progressive  abnormalities  of  renal  function  and  of  glomerular  morphology.  There  is  a  highly 
predictable  course  in  type  I  diabetes,  which  seems  to  be  similar  in  type  II  diabetes,  but  is  less  well 
documented. The earliest clinical evidence occurs with the appearance of low but abnormal levels of 
albumin in the urine, termed microalbuminuria. Studies show that 5 to 10% of diabetic type II patients 
with microalbuminuria develop overt nephropathy each year. Without specific interventions, 20-50% 
of  type  II  diabetic  patients  with  sustained  microalbuminuria  progress  over  5  to  10  years  to  clinical 
albuminuria.  By  20 years  after  the  onset  of  clinical  albuminuria,  about  20%  of  patients  have 
progressed to ESRD.  
Renal function before and after onset of microalbuminuria follows a typical course: early in diabetes, 
glomerular  filtration  rate  (GFR)  tends  to  be  high  (i.e.,  hyperfiltration);  during  the  phase  of 
microalbuminuria,  GFR  is  still  within  the  normal  range;  and  once  clinical  albuminuria  occurs,  the 
GFR falls over a period of several years at a rate that is highly variable between individuals.  
Renal biopsy studies have shown characteristic changes of diabetic glomerulopathy in both type 1 and 
type II diabetic patients. The relationship between kidney lesions and microalbuminuria is less clear in 
type  II  than  in  type  I  diabetes.  Only  30%  of  type  II  diabetic  patients  with  microalbuminuria  have 
typical  diabetic  glomerulopathy  (Kimmelstiel  Wilson’s  lesions),  while  40%  have  more  advanced 
tubulo-interstitial and/or vascular lesions and 30% have normal renal structure. 
In  1984,  Mogensen  reported  that  microalbuminuria  in  type  I  and  type  II  diabetic  patients 
(microalbuminuria defined as 30 µg/ml–140 µg/ml) predicted the progression of renal disease and led 
to  an  overall  excess  mortality  of  148%  over  a  9-year  period  in  the  latter  patients.  Even  very  small 
increases in albuminuria were shown to be quite significant. Apart from being a predictor of ESRD, 
microalbuminuria is also thought to be a predictor of cardiovascular complications and cardiovascular 
death. Several studies have demonstrated an increased mortality risk in type II diabetic patients with 
increasing levels of albuminuria. 
Subtle  abnormalities  in  blood  pressure  appear  when  microalbuminuria  develops.  Abnormal  blood 
pressure is observed in type II diabetic patients at the earliest stages of the disease and worsens as the 
disease  progresses.  The  prevalence  of  hypertension  increases  markedly  when  proteinuria,  and  more 
specifically elevated serum creatinine, is present. The prevalence of arterial hypertension, defined in a 
study published by Gall et al as ≥ 160/≥ 95 mmHg, increases with increasing albuminuria, being 48%, 
68%,  and  85%  in  patients  with  normoalbuminuria,  microalbuminuria,  and  clinical  albuminuria, 
respectively. 
Reduction  in  blood  pressure  has  been  shown  to  have  beneficial  effects  on  mortality  and  morbidity. 
The UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) showed that each 10 mmHg decrease in mean systolic 
blood pressure was associated with reductions in risk of 12% for any complication related to diabetes 
(95% confidence interval 10% to 14%, p < 0.0001), 15% for deaths related to diabetes (12% to 18%, 
p < 0.0001),  11%  for  myocardial  infarction  (7%  to  14%,  p  <  0.0001),  and  13%  for  microvascular 
complications (10% to 16%, p < 0.0001). 
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-Is) and AIIRAs have been shown to provide benefits 
in  the  treatment  of  incipient  or  overt  type  I  diabetic  nephropathy  above  and  beyond  that  achieved 
simply due to blood pressure reduction alone. The Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, 
Evaluation,  and  Treatment  of  High  Blood  Pressure  recommends  that  blood  pressure  should  be 
maintained < 130/85 mmHg in individuals with diabetes and < 125/75 mmHg when proteinuria is >1 
g/24 hours. 
Several studies have demonstrated a reno-protective effect of ACE-Is in type I diabetes. These blood 
pressure independent benefits seem to be mediated by the inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. It 
is  well  known  that  the  rate  of  progression  of  nephropathy  in  type  II  diabetes  is  similar  to  although 
more variable than that in type I diabetes. This variability may relate to the fact that type II diabetes is 
usually a disease of the elderly, so that renal changes from ageing are superimposed upon the changes 
from  diabetes.  At  the  time  of  the  submission  of  this  variation,  there  were  no  published  studies  with 
clinically definitive renal outcomes addressing the issue of renoprotection in type II diabetes. 
15/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical aspects 
The current submission is based on two large pivotal studies: IRMA 2 (IRbesartan MicroAlbuminuria 
in  type  2  diabetes)  and  IDNT  (Irbesartan  Diabetic  Nephropathy  Trial),  which  included  patient 
populations  at  two  different  stages  of  diabetic  kidney  disease  within  the  continuum  of  the  disease 
process,  in  order  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  intervention  at  two  key  periods  of  the  chronological 
evolution of the disease. Both trials have been published in the same issue of the New England Journal 
of Medicine  (September  20, 2001).  A  Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) sub-study and its  extension 
were included in the IRMA 2 study. 
In  addition  to  these  two  pivotal  trials,  three  other  supportive  small-scale  trials  studies  have  been 
conducted:  Protocol  CV131-047  was  a  pilot  study  for  the  IDNT  study;  the  other  two  protocols 
(CV131-046 and CV131-093) were renal haemodynamic studies. None of these 3 studies provide any 
substantial efficacy or safety data, and hence will not be reviewed. 
Appropriate GCP-compliance statements have been provided with all study reports. 
IRMA 2 
Study design and objectives 
This was a multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blind study comparing 2 doses of irbesartan 
versus  placebo  in  a  parallel  group  design.  Following  a  3-week  single-blind  placebo  period,  subjects 
were randomly allocated to one of three treatments: 150 mg irbesartan, 300 mg irbesartan, or placebo. 
Thereafter, subjects entered a 4-week titration period during which, for the first 2 weeks (Week 0 to 
Week 2),  subjects  allocated  to  both  irbesartan  treatment  groups  received  only  75 mg  daily  of  active 
medication.  At  the  Week  2  Visit,  all  subjects  receiving  irbesartan  had  their  daily  dose  titrated  to 
150 mg.  At  Week 4,  subjects  allocated  to  150 mg  irbesartan  remained  on  the  same  daily  dose  (i.e., 
150 mg)  and  those  allocated  to  300 mg  irbesartan  had  their  dose  titrated  to  300 mg  daily.  Subjects 
remained  on  this  daily  dosing  regimen  until  Month 24  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  period.  A 
post-study  visit  (Visit 10)  occurred  1 week  after  the  end-of-study  visit  (Month 24  or  premature 
discontinuation). The total duration of treatment was 25 months, including 24 months of double-blind 
treatment. 
Of the 611 subjects randomised in the main study, a subset of subjects (133) was selected for the GFR 
sub-study  and  its  extension  to  have  GFR  and  Extracellular  Fluid  Volume  (ECV)  assessments 
performed  periodically  while  receiving  treatment.  At  the  same  timepoints,  blood  plasma  was  frozen 
and  sent  to  a  central  laboratory  for  measurements  of  pro-renin,  active  renin,  and  angiotensin II 
concentration. In the GFR sub-study extension, the subjects returned to the study centres once weekly 
for  4 weeks  after  all  study  medication  and  concomitant  antihypertensive  medications  were 
discontinued  at  Visit 9  (Month 24).  The  effect  of  withdrawing  the  study  drug  and  adjunctive 
antihypertensive medication on BP, microalbuminuria, and GFR were evaluated. 
The  primary  objective  of  IRMA  2  was  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  irbesartan  on  progression  to  overt 
proteinuria,  defined  as  urinary  albumin  excretion  rate  [AER]  > 200 µg/minute  and  an  increase  of  at 
least  30%  from  baseline, 
in  hypertensive  subjects  with  Type  II  diabetes  mellitus  and 
microalbuminuria. 
Secondary objectives were to evaluate the change from baseline in: 
•  overnight urinary AER. 
• 
•  von  Willebrand 
estimated creatinine clearance using the Cockroft and Gault formula. 
(vWF), 
activator 
inhibitor-1 (PAI1),  and  lipid  profile  (total  cholesterol,  triglycerides,  high-density  lipoprotein 
[HDL]  cholesterol,  low-density  lipoprotein  [LDL]  cholesterol,  and  apolipoprotein)  after  1 and 
2 years of treatment. 
factor VII (FVII),  plasminogen 
fibrinogen, 
factor 
16/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  following  additional  objectives  were  established  for  the  GFR  sub-study  and  its  extension 
conducted in a subset of subjects: 
• 
• 
changes from baseline in GFR after 3 months and 2 years of treatment, as well as ECV, pro-renin, 
active renin, and angiotensin II were secondary assessments in the GFR sub-study. 
changes  in  GFR  after  withdrawing  study  medication  and  any  concomitant  antihypertensive 
medications  for  4 weeks,  as  well  as  blood  pressure  (BP)  and  urinary  AER  were  secondary 
assessments in the GFR sub-study extension. 
Diagnosis and inclusion/exclusion criteria 
Subjects  were  males  or  nonlactating  and  nonpregnant  females  aged  30  -  70  with  type II  diabetes 
mellitus  and  seated  systolic  BP  (SeSBP) > 135 mmHg  and/or  seated  diastolic  BP  (SeDBP) 
 > 85 mmHg  which  was  not  being 
receiving  antihypertensive  medication, 
SeSBP ≤ 160 mmHg and/or SeDBP ≤ 90 mmHg; evidence of microalbuminuria defined as an urinary 
albumin  excretion  rate  (AER)  between 20  and  200 µg/minute  on  2  of  3  timed  overnight  collections; 
serum  creatinine  ≤ 1.5 mg/dL  in  males  and  1.1 mg/dL  in  females;  serum  potassium  in  the  normal 
range (3.5-5.5 mmoles/l); Body Mass Index (BMI) ≤ 40 kg/m2.  
treated,  or 
if 
Type II diabetes was defined according to the standard ADA definition, as follows: 
1. 
In  case  of  diabetes  not  treated  with  insulin:  hyperglycemia  requiring  treatment  with  an  oral 
hypoglycemic  agent,  and/or  fasting  plasma  glucose  ≥ 140 mg/dl  on  two  occasions,  and/or 
fasting C peptide level exceeding the normal level of the local laboratory; or 
1)  In case of diabetes treated with insulin: time between diagnosis of type II diabetes and insulin use 
greater than 1 year, or fasting C peptide level exceeding the normal level of the local laboratory.  
Exclusion criteria included: 
•  Age of onset of Type II diabetes mellitus < 20 years. 
•  Type 1 (insulin-dependent, juvenile onset) diabetes mellitus. 
•  Renal disease as follows (criteria changed by Amendment No. 3): 
•  Renal allograft. 
•  Known non-diabetic renal disease. 
•  Known renovascular occlusive disease affecting both kidneys or a solitary kidney. 
•  Systolic BP (SBP) > 200 mmHg; diastolic BP (DBP) > 120 mmHg. 
•  Absolute requirement for treatment with an ACE inhibitor, or angiotensin II receptor antagonist, 
or  dihydropyridine  calcium  antagonist  (e.g.,  amlodipine,  felodipine,  isradipine,  lacidipine, 
nicardipine,  nifedipine,  nitrendipine).  Use  of  a  non-dihydropyridine  calcium  antagonist  (e.g., 
diltiazem, verapamil) was permitted. 
•  Unstable angina pectoris; recent myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass graft surgery or 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (< 3 months); recent stroke or transient ischaemic 
attack  (< 3 months);  symptomatic  heart  failure  requiring  medication;  obstructive  valvular  heart 
disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
•  Clinically important active or uncontrolled cardiac, hepatic, non-diabetic metabolic, neurological, 
pulmonary, or hematological disorder. 
•  Need for chronic (> 2 weeks) immunosuppressive therapy, including corticosteroids. 
•  Need for chronic (≥ 1 month) treatment with NSAIDs or aspirin (low-dose aspirin not exceeding 
325 mg/day was permitted). 
Study endpoints 
The  primary efficacy endpoint was the time-to-occurrence of clinical  proteinuria and was reached if 
the clinical proteinuria criteria were observed at two successive evaluations.  The primary analysis was 
17/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
performed on the per-protocol population. The Mantel-Haenszel log-rank test was used to compare the 
outcome  between  each  irbesartan  dose  group  (150  mg  and  300  mg)  and  placebo  separately.  The 
significance  level  was  fixed  at  2.5%  according  to  Bonferroni  adjustment  procedure  to  maintain  an 
overall two-sided significance level of 5%. 
As a secondary analysis of the primary endpoint, the estimates of treatment effects (hazard ratios) on 
the amount of time free of clinical proteinuria were adjusted for prognostic factors. Adjusted estimates 
of the risk ratios were provided with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).  The following prognostic factors 
at baseline were included in the Cox model as fixed covariates: gender, age, BMI, diabetes duration, 
use of insulin, hypertension duration, fundoscopic grade and AER at baseline. Mean arterial pressure 
(MAP) was added to the Cox model as a time-dependent covariate. Another Cox’s model, including 
only AER at baseline as a covariate and MAP as a time-dependent covariate was tested as well.  In 
addition, for some selected baseline covariates, risk ratios were presented by sub-groups. 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  AER  and  estimated  creatinine  clearance  were  log-transformed  before 
analysis.  Treatment  effect  comparisons  between  treatment  groups  were  performed  on  the  absolute 
change from baseline using an ANOVA model for repeated measures including treatment groups as a 
factor, time as a repeated factor and a treatment-by-time interaction. 
The study was designed to attain similar degrees of BP control within all 3 treatment groups. Given 
variable  subject  responses  to  changes  in  BP  medications,  the  physician  could  use  his/her  clinical 
judgment to choose intervals between adjustments of antihypertensive medication dosage in order to 
achieve control. If the maximally titrated dose of study medication did not result in a reduction of BP 
to target levels, treatment with adjunctive antihypertensive therapy was permitted, except for treatment 
with  the  ACE  inhibitors,  dihydropyridine  calcium  antagonists  (changed  by  Amendment  No. 1)  and 
angiotensin II antagonists. If despite titration to the maximum doses of tolerated study medication and 
adjunctive antihypertensive agents, the SeBP had not responded (defined as a SeSBP > 160 mmHg or 
SeDBP > 90 mmHg), the Investigator was to consult with the Sponsor’s Trial Monitor or the Principal 
Investigator. 
Efficacy results 
A total of 608 patients were exposed to one of the three study treatments and 445 (73%) completed the 
2-year study. Fewer patients discontinued the study in the irbesartan groups (34%, 27% and 20%  in 
the placebo, irbesartan 150 mg and irbesartan 300 mg groups, respectively). The average exposure to 
study drug during the study was similar across all treatment groups: 206 subjects received placebo for 
an average of 561 days, 202 subjects received irbesartan 150 mg/day for an average of 599 days and 
200 subjects received irbesartan 300 mg/day for an average of 641 days.  
The  majority  of  subjects  were  male  (416/611,  68%),  Caucasian  (595/611,  97%),  had  a  history  of 
treatment for hypertension averaging 7 years prior to entering the study (59.9%) and were not using 
insulin prior to entering the study (65.3%). The average age of subjects in the study was 58 years. The 
average age of subjects at the time of diabetes diagnosis was approximately 49 years, with an average 
disease duration of approximately 10 years at study entry.  
The proportion of exposed subjects who used concomitant medications during the double-blind period 
was similar  across all treatment groups, the  most commonly used being antidiabetic therapies (more 
than 90% of all subjects). Anti-hypertensive drugs, other than study medication, were used in 55% of 
patients  including  diuretics  (24%),  beta-blocking  agents  (35%)  and  calcium  channel  blockers  non-
dihydropyridine agents (24%).  
The BP changes from baseline were similar among the three groups during the study. This is important 
since potential differences in blood pressure would impact the interpretation of the data. At the end of 
the  study,  the  SeSBP/SeDBP  mean  values  were  comparable  between  treatment  groups:  143.5/82.2, 
143.5/82.4 and 141.6/83.4 mmHg in the placebo, irbesartan 150 and 300 mg/day groups, respectively 
and not statistically significant with respect to placebo. 
18/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Analysis: Occurrence of Clinical Proteinuria 
All  randomised  subjects  who  were  evaluable  for  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  were  included.  The 
primary analysis was planned to be performed with the per protocol data set, which excluded patients 
with major protocol violations. The analyses were also performed with an intention-to-treat (ITT) data 
set  to  test  the  robustness  of  the  results.  No  substantial  differences  were  observed  between  the  per 
protocol and ITT results and so the latter, representing a larger dataset, are presented in this report. 
The results in Table 1 show that irbesartan 300 mg/day was significantly better than placebo by Month 
24 in reducing the risk of developing clinical proteinuria (Relative Risk Reduction [RRR] = 70%, p = 
0.0004).  The  RRR  provided  by  the  150 mg/day  dose  was  39%,  which  did  not  reach  statistical 
significance (RRR = 39%, p = 0.085). 
Table 1:IRMA 2: Occurrence of Clinical Proteinuria - Irbesartan vs. Placebo ITT population 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Relative Risk 
Placebo 
N = 201 
30 (14.9) 
Irbesartan 300mg 
N = 195 
Estimate 
95% Confidence 
Interval 
P 
10 (5.2) 
0.295 
0.144, 0.606 
0.0004 
Placebo N = 201 
Irbesartan 150mg 
N = 195 
30 (14.9) 
19 (9.7) 
0.607 
0.341, 1.079 
0.085 
The figure below shows how Kaplan-Meier curves on the time to occurrence of overt proteinuria start 
to separate as early as 3 months after randomisation and continue to do so through month 24. 
Figure 1: Time-to-Occurrence of Clinical Proteinuria - Kaplan-Meier Estimates ITT Population 
l
a
c
i
n
i
l
c
p
o
l
e
v
e
d
o
t
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
)
%
(
a
i
r
u
n
i
e
t
o
r
p
The treatment effect of irbesartan compared to placebo on the main endpoint was independent of the 
baseline AER and of the BP-lowering effect of irbesartan at the two doses tested. The risk ratio, when 
adjusted  for  baseline  AER  and  BP  as  time-dependent  covariates  using  the  Cox  model,  was  slightly 
decreased with irbesartan 150 mg/day (RR unadjusted = 0.607; RR adjusted = 0.556) and similar with 
irbesartan 300 mg/day (RR unadjusted = 0.295; RR adjusted = 0.316). 
When sub-populations were examined, the risk ratio was always below 1 for any stratum of sub-group, 
suggesting  that  there  was  no  difference  in  treatment  effect  in  any  sub-group  and  no  interaction 
between treatment group and sub-group population.  
Regarding  secondary  analyses,  the  two  doses  of  irbesartan  significantly  alter  the  change  in  AER 
during  the  24  months  of  the  study.  Mean  decreases  from  baseline  of  AER  were  observed  in  both 
19/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment groups at all time points compared with placebo, with the greatest decrease occurring in the 
higher dose group at Month 24 (-47.15 µg/min for irbesartan 300 mg/day group vs. -7.55 µg/min for 
placebo; p = 0.0001). The corresponding value in the irbesartan 150 mg/day group was -30.48 µg/min 
(p = 0.046 vs. placebo). A dose response increase in plasma renin activity, highest with irbesartan 300 
mg, reinforces the dose response relationship. 
One third of the subjects normalised their urinary AER in the irbesartan 300 mg/day group compared 
with 20% and 24% in the placebo and irbesartan 150 mg/day groups, respectively. Normalised urinary 
AER  for  this  analysis  was  defined  as  the  last  value  below  20  µg/min.  This  analysis,  although  not 
prospectively defined in this study, was undertaken to more clearly understand the effect of irbesartan. 
Mean decreases from baseline were observed in estimated creatinine clearance for all treatment groups 
at  all  time  points.  By  Month  24,  the  greatest  decrease  (-7.68%)  was  observed  in  the  irbesartan 
300 mg/day  group,  although  there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  either 
irbesartan dose and placebo at any time point. During this period of follow-up, irbesartan did not alter 
the  evolution  of  the  estimated  creatinine  clearance  compared  with  the  evolution  under  placebo.  It 
should be reminded that the control of blood pressure was equivalent in all three groups, thus reducing 
the potential for differentiation on renal function. There was a greater decline of estimated creatinine 
clearance  during  the  first  3  months  than  during  the  rest  of  the  study,  possibly  due  to  the  relatively 
acute hemodynamic effect of anti-hypertensive treatments initiated after the run-in placebo period. 
There was a loss of GFR in the sub-study that was more pronounced in the irbesartan 300 mg group, 
especially during the first three months of therapy, although this study was neither ideal nor powered 
to assess differences in the the evolution of GFR. This initial decline may be due to the haemodynamic 
effect of the antihypertensive treatment. After 4 weeks of withdrawal of both study treatment and all 
concomitant  anti-hypertensive  therapy,  GFR  increased  (although  the  95%  CIs  overlap)  without 
reaching the baseline values.  
Both doses of irbesartan reduced AER in the sub-study by the same magnitude as in the main study. 
Four  weeks  after  withdrawal  of  antihypertensive  therapy,  AER  increased  to  values  close  to  the 
baseline,  except  in  those  patients  treated  with  irbesartan  300mg/day  whose  AER  values  remained 
lower.  These  results  are  consistent  with  a  possible  non-haemodynamic  action  on  renal  structure, 
although given the small size of the sub-study, they do not constitute any definitive proof. 
Safety results 
Table 2   Summary  of  clinical  adverse  events  (as  reported)  in  exposed  subjects  during  and  up  to 
14 days post double-blind therapy. 
Number of subjects  
Placebo 
N=206 
Irbesartan 
75/150 mg 
N=202 
Irbesartan 
75/300 mg 
N=200 
Total 
Irbesartan 
N=402 
n  
(%) 
n  
(%) 
n  
(%) 
n  
(%) 
with at least 1 AE 
141 
(68.4) 
129 
(63.9)  149 
(74.5) 
278 
(69.2) 
with at least 1 ADE 
with at least 1 SAE 
who died 
27 
47 
4 
(13.1) 
(22.8) 
25 
32 
(12.4) 
21 
(10.5) 
46 
(11.4) 
(15.8) 
30 
(15.0) 
62 
(15.4) 
(2.0) 
3 
(1.5) 
6 
(3.0) 
9 
(2.3) 
who permanently 
discontinued study drug due 
to an AE 
19  
(9.2) 
18 
(8.9) 
11 
(5.5) 
29 
(7.2) 
AE: adverse event; ADE: adverse drug experience; SAE: serious adverse event 
20/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 17 subjects died during the study, of which: 1 never received study drug and died during the 
placebo-lead-in period, 5 received placebo, 2 received irbesartan 75 mg during the titration period (1 
was  randomised  to  irbesartan  150  mg  and  1  was  randomized  to  irbesartan  300  mg),  2  received 
irbesartan  150  mg,  and  7  received  irbesartan  300  mg.  The  relationship  of  one  death  (myocardial 
infarction,  irbesartan  150  mg)  to  study  medication  was  unknown  whereas  all  the  others  were  not 
considered related to study treatment according to the Investigator’s assessment. The primary cause of 
death in 6 cases was cardiovascular (1 in the placebo group, 1 in the irbesartan 150 mg group, and 4 in 
the irbesartan 300 mg group); malignancy was the cause of death in 5 cases (1 in the placebo group, 2 
in the irbesartan 150 mg group, and 2 in the irbesartan 300 mg group). 
Of the 608 exposed subjects, 109 experienced SAEs during double-blind treatment; the frequency of 
occurrence was slightly higher in placebo-treated subjects (22.8%) compared to subjects treated with 
irbesartan 150 mg (15.8%) and irbesartan 300 mg (15.0%). The most frequently occurring SAEs were 
those  associated  with  cardiovascular  body  system  (8.3%  in  placebo-treated  subjects  and  6.2%  in 
irbesartan-treated  subjects).  Adjudicated  serious  cardiovascular  events  occurred  with  similar 
frequency between placebo-treated subjects (8.7%) and irbesartan-treated subjects (6.0%). Myocardial 
infarction  was  the  most  frequently  occurring  event  (<2%  frequency  in  each  treatment  group);  heart 
failure  and  pulmonary  oedema  were  reported  more  frequently  in  the  irbesartan  treatment  groups 
whereas  non-fatal  myocardial  infarction  and  unstable  or  new-onset  angina  were  reported  more 
frequently in the placebo group. These results should be interpreted with caution because of the small 
number of events (1.0% to 2.0%). 
The rate of discontinuation owing to AEs was 9.2% for placebo-treated subjects, 8.9% for irbesartan 
150 mg-treated subjects and 5.5% for irbesartan 300 mg-treated subjects. 
The  most  commonly  occurring  AEs  across  all  treatment  groups  were  associated  with  the  following 
body  systems:  cardiovascular  system,  nervous  system,  musculoskeletal/connective  tissue,  general, 
gastrointestinal, and respiratory system. The single most common AE was musculoskeletal pain (9.7% 
in placebo-treated subjects and 11.4% in irbesartan-treated subjects). Subjects receiving irbesartan 300 
mg tended to have a higher overall incidence of reported clinical AEs compared with placebo-treated 
subjects.  Subjects  in  the  irbesartan  150  mg  group  reported  clinical  AEs  at  a  similar  or  less  frequent 
rate than did subjects in the placebo group, except for diarrhoea and nausea/vomiting. Diarrhoea may 
be dose-related, whereas nausea/vomiting, however, does not appear to be dose-related. Subjects in the 
300 mg irbesartan group had a more frequent occurrence of musculoskeletal pain, dizziness, diarrhea, 
pulmonary  infection,  urination  abnormality,  depression,  vertigo,  and  sleep  disturbance  than  did 
placebo-treated subjects. 
The  frequency  of  laboratory  AEs  was  low  and  the  occurrence  was  similar  between  placebo-treated 
subjects (10.7%) and irbesartan-treated subjects (8.7%). There were no trends observed in laboratory 
AEs in any treatment groups. The proportion of patients with low creatinine clearance was higher in 
the irbesartan 300 mg group compared to placebo (8.1% vs. 4.5%), as was the proportion of patients 
with high serum potassium (2.0% in the irbesartan 150 mg group vs. 0% in the other two groups). The 
mean  change  from  baseline  in  serum  potassium  at  Month  12  was  statistically  significant  for  the 
comparison  of  irbesartan  150  mg  and  placebo.  At  Month  12,  mean  values  for  serum  potassium 
decreased  in  the  placebo  group  (-0.15  mEq/L  from  a  baseline  mean  of  4.68)  and  increased  in  the 
irbesartan 300 mg group (0.03 mEq/L from a baseline of 4.67). These changes were small and were 
expected  with  an  angiotensin  II  receptor  antagonist.  Finally,  statistically  significant  mean  (±SD) 
changes  from  baseline  were  observed  at  Months  12  and  24  for  haemoglobin  when  comparing  the 
irbesartan 300 mg group. 
Overall, there was no clinically significant variation in BP, HR or bodyweight in any treatment group. 
ECG abnormalities occurred with similar frequency across all treatment groups with the exception of 
PR and QRS, which occurred with greater frequency in the irbesartan 300 mg group, although it was 
not  possible  to  establish  causality  for  these  abnormalities.  QT  changes  were  reported  with  similar 
frequency in the irbesartan and placebo groups.  
21/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IDNT study 
Study design and objectives 
This was a multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled study 
in hypertensive subjects with diabetic nephropathy due to type II diabetes comparing irbesartan (up to 
300 mg/day) after a titration period of 8 weeks, with placebo and amlodipine (up to 10 mg/day) after a 
similar titration period. The study phases were as follows: 
Screening (Period A; up to 3 weeks): Renal function was determined by measuring serum creatinine 
and 24-hour urine protein and albumin excretion in subjects with hypertension in either an untreated 
subject,  or  one  receiving  antihypertensive  medication.  ACEI,  AIIRAs  and  calcium  channel  blockers 
(CCBs)  were  to  be  discontinued  for  at  least  10  days  prior  to  collection  of  the  first  24-hour  urine. 
Although  CCBs  could  not  be  started  during  the  Screening  or  Enrollment  Periods,  if  a  subject  was 
taking  one  at  the  time  consent  was  signed,  they  could  continue  until  randomisation  subject  to  the 
investigator’s judgement. Use of other antihypertensive medication was permitted. 
Enrollment (Period B; 7 to 14 days): Subjects were enrolled if the screening serum creatinine was 1.0-
3.0 mg/dl in women and 1.2-3.0 mg/dl in men, and their 24-hour protein excretion was ≥ 900 mg. If 
the  Screening  serum  creatinine  fell  below  the  specified  criteria,  a  subject  could  be  entered  if  the 
creatinine clearance measured at the Screening visit was ≤ 80 ml/min in women and ≤ 90 ml/min in 
men.  The  difference  between  the  Screening  and  Enrollment  Period  serum  creatinines  must  not  have 
been  >  than  25%.  The  maximum  time  permitted  between  the  collection  of  the  first  24-hour  urine 
during Screening and the day of randomisation was 35 days. 
Titration  (Period  C;  8  weeks):  Subjects  were  randomised  (1:1:1)  to  regimens  of  irbesartan  or 
amlodipine or placebo, receiving once-daily in the morning initially at irbesartan 75 mg or amlodipine 
2.5 mg or placebo (Level I). At the end of Week 2, the dose was increased to irbesartan 150  mg or 
amlodipine  5 mg  or  placebo  once-daily  in  all  subjects  as  tolerated  (Level  II  regimen)  and  further 
increased to irbesartan 300 mg or amlodipine 10 mg or placebo once-daily at the end of Week 4 in all 
subjects  as  tolerated  (Level III  regimen).  To  allow  for  titration  to  the  highest-tolerated  dose, 
discontinuation  of  other  antihypertensive  medications  was  advisable  and  may  have  been  required 
between  randomization  and  Week 4.  However,  use  of  antihypertensive  medication  was  permitted  to 
maintain  BP  control,  with  the  exception  of  ACEI,  AIIRA,  and  CCBs.  Additionally,  a  more  rapid 
titration  regimen,  with  an  increase  to  Level  II  at  Week  1  and  Level  III  at  Week  2  was  allowed  for 
subjects  whose  BP  was  difficult  to  control.  Subjects  who  experienced  symptoms  of  orthostatic 
hypotension or had a SeSBP < 120 mmHg were not titrated. Adjunctive antihypertensive medications 
were to be tapered  or withdrawn to allow for titration to the highest dose of  study drug tolerated. If 
symptoms  persisted,  subjects  were  to  be  “down-titrated”.  All  subjects  were  to  return  at  the  end  of 
8 weeks  to  confirm  that  target  blood  pressure  goals  were  reached  (SeSBP  ≤135  mmHg  and  SeDBP 
≤ 85 mmHg,  or  for  subjects  with  SeSBP  >  145  mmHg  at  the  Screening  visit,  the  target  decrease  in 
SeSBP was at least 10 mmHg; the maximum allowable SeSBP was 160 mmHg). 
Maintenance (Period D; 21-57 months): Subjects were seen every 3 months from the end of Month 3. 
Titration  to  the  next  level  of  study  drug  could  occur  at  any  time  during  the  Maintenance  Period  in 
subjects  who  were  not  previously  titrated  to  Level  II  or  III  study  drug.  Use  of  adjunctive 
antihypertensive agents was permitted throughout the trial (with the exception of ACEI, AIIRAs, and 
CCBs) to achieve target blood pressure. The same titration precautions were adopted as for Period C.  
Objectives and endpoints 
The primary objectives of this trial were: 
• 
• 
to determine whether irbesartan increases the time to the primary composite endpoint [doubling of 
serum creatinine, ESRD (defined as renal transplantation or need for dialysis or serum creatinine 
equal to or greater than 6.0 mg/dl) or death (all-cause mortality)] compared to placebo. 
to compare the safety and tolerance of irbesartan with placebo when administered long-term  
22/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary objectives were: 
• 
• 
to  determine  whether  irbesartan  increases  the  time  to  the  main  composite  endpoint  compared  to 
amlodipine;  
to  determine  whether  irbesartan  increases  the  time  to  a  secondary  cardiovascular  composite 
endpoint  (cardiovascular  death,  nonfatal  myocardial  infarction,  hospitalisation  for  heart  failure, 
permanent  neurologic  deficit  attributed  to  stroke  or  above-the-ankle  amputation)  compared  to 
placebo and amlodipine. 
•  To compare the safety and tolerance of irbesartan with amlodipine. 
The tertiary objectives were: 
•  To determine whether irbesartan increases the time to a tertiary cardiovascular composite endpoint 
(cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, unplanned coronary artery revascularization 
procedure,  heart  failure  requiring  hospitalization  or  therapy  with  an  ACEI  or  AIIRA,  permanent 
neurologic deficit attributed to stroke, above-the-ankle or below-the ankle amputation or unplanned 
peripheral artery revascularization procedure) compared to placebo and amlodipine 
The  efficacy  of  irbesartan  was  evaluated  using  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary  outcome  measures, 
defined as the time from randomisation until the first confirmed occurrence of any of the events of the 
primary, secondary and tertiary endpoints respectively. 
Diagnosis and inclusion/exclusion criteria: 
Patients included were men and women aged 30 to 70 with type II diabetes mellitus (as per IRMA 2), 
hypertension  (defined as  in the IRMA  2 study  in an untreated subject,  or receiving  antihypertensive 
medication) and proteinuria (24-hour urine protein excretion ≥ 900 mg) were studied. The exclusion 
criteria were similar to those applied in the IRMA 2 study. 
Statistical methods:  
All randomised subjects were included in the efficacy analysis. Kaplan-Meier curves were generated 
for each of the 3 composite endpoints to show the estimated cumulative event rate over time for each 
treatment group. Irbesartan was compared with placebo or amlodipine with respect to the risk to event 
by  the  log-rank  test,  and  the  relative  risk  was  estimated  by  Cox-proportional-hazards  regression 
containing  only  a  term  for  treatment.  Additionally,  Cox  regression  analyses  were  used  to  compare 
irbesartan  with  placebo  adjusting  for  baseline  characteristics  or  a  time-dependent  covariate,  mean 
arterial blood pressure, separately. The same displays and analyses were generated for the individual 
components of the primary composite endpoint.  
Results 
A total of 1715 subjects  were randomised  (placebo: 569, irbesartan: 579, amlodipine 567) and 1699 
received  treatment,  of  which  1291  (76.0%)  completed  double-blind  therapy  and  408  (24.0%) 
discontinued prematurely with a similar incidence among the 3 treatment groups. The most common 
reasons for discontinuation were AEs and requiring therapy with prohibited medications. 
The mean duration of double blind study treatment for each treatment group was 793 days for placebo, 
815 days for irbesartan, and 773 days for amlodipine. The final daily dose of amlodipine was 10 mg in 
85% of patients and 300 mg irbesartan in 83% of patients. 
In  general,  there  were  no  imbalances  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  various  demographic  and 
baseline characteristics deemed large enough to affect the efficacy comparisons. Overall, 66.5% of the 
subjects  were  male,  72.4%  were  Caucasian  and  only  27.1%  of  the  subjects  were  aged  65  or  more. 
Mean  BMI  was  30.8;  the  duration  of  diabetes  was  somewhat  shorter  in  the  amlodipine  group  (13.9 
years) compared to placebo and irbesartan groups (15.0 and 15.5 years, respectively). Overall, 57.8% 
of the patients were using insulin treatment, 45.4% had a history of cardiovascular disease and 44.1% 
had prior ACE-I use. The mean serum creatinine was 1.68 mg/dl, estimated creatinine clearance 57.8 
23/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ml/min/1.73  sqm,  and  mean  urinary  protein  excretion  rate  was  3005  mg/24  h.  In  the  overall  study 
population, the mean baseline SeSBP was 159 mmHg and SeDBP was 87 mmHg. 
Regarding  concomitant  medication  during  the  double-blind  period,  70%  of  the  subjects  in  placebo 
group received insulin therapy vs. 67.1% in the irbesartan group and 67.8% in the amlodipine group. 
As  far  as  oral  hypoglycemic  agents  are  concerned,  39.8%  in  the  placebo  group,  42.8%  in  the 
irbesartan group, and 41.5% in the amlodipine group received sulfonylureas. Metformin was used by 
28.6% of the placebo group, by 32.6% of the irbesartan group, and by 30.7% of the amlodipine group. 
Beta-blockers  were  most  commonly  used  adjunctive  antihypertensive  agents  (52%  in  the  placebo 
group,  43.5%  in  the  irbesartan  group,  and  40.6%  in  the  amlodipine  group);  followed  by  alpha/beta 
adrenergic  blockers  agents  (48.1%  in  the  placebo,  43.2%  in  the  irbesartan,  and  41.5%  in  the 
amlodipine  group).  Many  of  the  subjects  received  loop  diuretics  at  the  time  of  enrollment  (41.2%, 
43.3%, and 38.8% in the placebo, irbesartan, and amlodipine groups, respectively) and the percentages 
increased  during  the  course  of  the  study  (71.9%,  67.2%,  and  73.5%  in  the  placebo,  irbesartan,  and 
amlodipine  groups,  respectively).  The  majority  of  subjects  required  two  to  four  antihypertensive 
agents  as  concomitant  treatment  during  the  double-blind  period  to  control  blood  pressure.  Mean 
arterial pressure (MAP) was significantly higher by 2.9 mmHg in the placebo group (p = 0.0001) than 
in the two active treatment groups, which did not differ significantly in MAP results. 
Efficacy 
Patients in the irbesartan group demonstrated a 20% relative risk reduction in the primary endpoint vs. 
placebo  (p  =  0.0234)  and  a  23%  relative  risk  reduction  in  the  primary  endpoint  vs.  amlodipine  
(p  =  0.0064).  Irbesartan  was  still  significantly  different  from  placebo  and  amlodipine  after  the 
disparity in blood pressure control was taken into account.  
Table 3: IDNT: Primary Composite Endpoint 
Event 
Number (%) of Subjects 
% Relative Risk Reduction 
Irbesartan 
N = 579 
Placebo 
N = 569 
Amlodipine 
N = 567 
Irbesartan vs. 
placebo 
Irbesartan vs. 
Amlodipine 
Primary Composite 
Renal Endpoint 
189 
(32.6) 
222 
(39.0) 
233 
(41.1) 
20 
p = 0.0234 
23 
p = 0.0064 
The Kaplan-Meier curve of irbesartan shown below clearly separates from the amlodipine and placebo 
curves  as  early  as  15  months  and  continues  to  diverge  during  the  course  of  the  study  whereas  the 
amlodipine and placebo curves cannot be differentiated  
Figure 2: Time to Occurrence of Primary Composite Endpoint: Kaplan-Meier Estimates  
24/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
)
%
(
e
t
a
R
t
n
e
v
E
e
v
i
t
a
l
u
m
u
C
Irbesartan
Amlodipine
Placebo
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
N at risk
Irbesartan 579 567 556 544 528 513 497 479 409 352 308 258 219 189 151 105  69  29   5
Amlodipine 567 553 544 531 513 499 479 455 399 341 299 247 200 161 132  93  51  26   9
569 560 552 532 515 500 474 457 407 337 289 237 194 161 126  85  59  23   4
Placebo
27
36
30
24
Months of Follow-up
33
39
42
45
48
51
54
57
60
The  total  occurrence  of  the  individual  outcomes  during  the  complete  course  of  the  study  is 
summarised below (Table 4).  
25/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: IDNT: Total Occurrence of Renal Events and Deaths 
Occurrencea of:  
Number  (%) of Subjects 
Relative Risk Reduction 
Irbesartan 
N = 579 
Placebo 
N = 569 
Amlodipine 
N = 567 
Irbesartan vs. placebo 
Irbesartan vs. 
Amlodipine 
RR 
p 
RR 
p 
(95% CI) 
(95% CI) 
Death 
(all causes)  
Doubling of Serum 
Creatinine  
 87 (15.0) 
 93 (16.3) 
 83 (14.6) 
     0.92 
0.5683 
     1.04 
0.8083 
 98 (16.9) 
135 (23.7) 
144 (25.4) 
     0.67 
0.0027 
     0.63 
0.0003 
(0.69-1.23) 
(0.77-1.40) 
(0.52-0.87) 
(0.49-0.81) 
ESRD 
 82 (14.2) 
101 (17.8) 
104 (18.3) 
     0.77 
0.0731 
     0.77 
0.0746 
(0.57-1.03) 
(0.57-1.03) 
ESRD or Death  
151 (26.1) 
169 (29.7) 
162 (28.6) 
     0.85 
0.1331 
     0.90 
0.3648 
ESRD or Doubling 
of Serum Creatinine 
125 (21.6) 
158 (27.8) 
179 (31.6) 
     0.74 
0.0116 
     0.66 
0.0003 
(0.68-1.05) 
(0.72-1.13) 
(0.59-0.94) 
(0.53-0.83) 
a  The individual components do not represent a breakdown of the combined primary endpoint but 
rather the total number of subjects experiencing an event during the course of the study. 
Irbesartan  caused  a  non-statistically  significant  23% relative  risk  reduction  in  ESRD  compared  with 
either  placebo  (p  =  0.0731)  or  amlodipine  (p  =  0.0746).  Given  the  similarity  of  the  results  of  both 
comparisons,  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  irbesartan  vs.  pooled  placebo  and  amlodipine  groups  was 
performed  leading  to  a  statistically  significant  result  (p = 0.0422).  This  analysis  is  not  felt  to  be 
appropriate and is therefore not reviewed here. 
There  was  no  difference  in  all  cause  mortality  across  the  three  groups,  although  the  study  was  not 
powered to show a difference on mortality alone. The inclusion of all-cause mortality in the composite 
endpoint  was  considered  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  effect  observed  was  not  undermined  by  a 
potentially harmful effect on mortality. The results do not indicate an adverse effect of irbesartan on 
mortality. 
All comparisons show statistically significant  differences  only  when doubling  of serum creatinine is 
included  in  the  outcome.  The  significant  decrease  in  time  to  doubling  of  serum  creatinine  was 
supported  by  additional  analyses.  The  yearly  rate  of  change  of  serum  creatinine  and  creatinine 
clearance were statistically significantly lower (p<0.05) in the irbesartan group than in both the other 
groups. Urine protein and albumin excretion were similar in all 3 groups at baseline but a statistically 
greater  (p<0.001)  reduction  was  observed  only  in  the  irbesartan  group,  despite  larger  numbers  of 
patients  being  removed  from  the  placebo  and  amlodipine  arms  when  they  reached  a  renal  endpoint. 
These data confirm a positive effect of irbesartan on renal function. 
Cox regression models adjusting individually for baseline prognostic factors were used to assess the 
relative risks  for 17  a  priori baseline prognostic factors that predict the primary composite endpoint 
and  assess  consistency  of  treatment  effects  across  sub-populations.  Based  on  these  analyses,  the 
relative  risk  for  the  primary  composite  endpoint  for  patients  treated  with  irbesartan  compared  with 
placebo controls is lower for males than females (0.79; CI: 0.65-0.96) and relatively lower for whites 
than non-whites (0.81; CI: 0.67-0.98). The relative risk also increases for every unit increase in age, 
unit increase in duration of diabetes,  unit increase in seated MAP, unit increase in serum  creatinine, 
unit increase in AER and unit increase in protein excretion rate. 
Sub-groups were also identified (e.g., < 65 years and ≥ 65 years) and the relative risk of treatment with 
irbesartan compared with placebo determined using Cox regression models (see figure below).  
26/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to the female subgroup, the relative risk was lower for males (0.68; CI: 0.53-0.88] than 
females  (0.98  [CI:  0.72-1.34]).  The  number  of  subjects  was  small  to  detect  a  significant  difference 
between  treatment  groups  and  the  confidence  interval  for  relative  risks  were  wide.  No  clinically 
meaningful imbalance was observed in baseline characteristics or concomitant medication usage in the 
male  and  female  subgroups.  With  respect  to  geographical  region,  the  relative  risk  was  lower  for 
Europeans  (0.74  [CI:  0.54-1.01]  than  for  North  Americans  (0.95  [CI:  0.71-1.27]).  Among  all-
randomised  patients  in  the  North  American  region,  47%  were  non-white,  51%  had  a  history  of 
cardiovascular disease and 58% prior use of ACE-I, all higher than the corresponding percentages for 
European patients (6%, 43% and 35%, respectively). These differences might have contributed to the 
higher incidence of the renal composite endpoint observed in the North American region. 
As for the secondary cardiovascular endpoint, there were no significant differences among any of the 
groups  with  respect  to  the  composite  cardiovascular  endpoint  or  any  of  its  components. 
Cardiovascular  death  rates  were  also  similar  across  the  groups  as  was  time  to  death  from 
cardiovascular disease. The only differences were observed in the incidence of non-fatal MI and stroke 
(lower for amlodipine) and hospitalisation for heart failure (lower for irbesartan). These findings are 
based on inappropriately powered post hoc analysis and should be interpreted with caution. 
Similarly, there was no statistically significant relative risk reduction in the tertiary cardiovascular 
composite endpoint for irbesartan vs. placebo or amlodipine. 
Other changes in efficacy measures can be summarised as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
irbesartan demonstrated a significant reduction in the annual rate of increase in serum creatinine 
as compared with placebo (p = 0.004) and amlodipine (p = 0.013). 
irbesartan demonstrated a significant reduction in the annual rate of decline in creatinine 
clearance compared with placebo and amlodipine.  
Mean  changes  from  baseline  in  serum  creatinine  and  creatinine  clearance,  albumin  excretion 
rate  and  protein  excretion  rate  showed  trends  in  favour  of  irbesartan.  The  results  should  be 
viewed with caution due to small numbers of patients in the late timepoint analyses. 
27/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Triglycerides tended to increase from baseline on irbesartan (statistically significant at Month 
12 but not at months 24, 36, and 48). Urine urea nitrogen excretion rate tended to decline from 
baseline with time, but generally less so for irbesartan than for placebo. 
The decrease from baseline in each of the blood pressure parameters in either position was statistically 
significantly  greater  for  irbesartan  than  for  placebo  (p  ≤  0.049).  However,  the  differences  between 
irbesartan  and  amlodipine  in  mean  change  for  the  blood  pressure  parameters  (p  ≥  0.120)  were  not 
statistically significant. There were no significant differences in change in heart rates when irbesartan 
was compared to either placebo or amlodipine. 
Safety 
The overall summary of clinical AEs, adverse drug experiences, (ADE), serious adverse events (SAE), 
and deaths in terms reported by the Investigators is shown below. Of the 1699 treated subjects, 1082 
(63.7%)  experienced  SAEs.The  frequencies  of  the  most  common  (≥  1%)  SAEs  and  cardiovascular 
events by adjudicated terms, during and up to 14 days post double-blind therapy, by body system and 
treatment  group  were  similar  across  the  treatment  groups.  With  the  exception  of  ADEs  (most 
frequently  reported  in  the  amlodipine  group),  there  were  no  clear  differences  between  the  treatment 
groups. 
Table 5. Summary of Clinical Adverse Events (as Reported) During and Up to 14 Days Post Double-
Blind Therapy by Treatment Group 
Event 
AE, total (% of subjects)  
  ADEa  
SAEa  
  Deathb 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Placebo 
N = 563 
Irbesartan 
N = 577 
Amlodipine 
N = 559 
524 (93.1) 
540 (93.6) 
225 (40.0) 
266 (46.1) 
326 (57.9) 
326 (56.5) 
90 (16.0) 
86 (14.9) 
526 (94.1) 
285 (51.0) 
317 (56.7) 
79 (14.1) 
a Subset of total AEs: subject may be represented in more than one category  
b During and post double-blind therapy 
Discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  occurred  at  a  similar  rate  in  the  groups:  placebo  6.4%, 
irbesartan  7.5%  and  amlodipine  7.9%,  and,  with  the  exception  of  oedema  (highest  frequency  in  the 
amlodipine groups), the AEs did not lead to any differences between the groups as regards treatment 
discontinuation. 
Regarding deaths, a total of 255 subjects died during and post double blind therapy; 90 (16.0%) in the 
placebo  group,  86  (14.9%)  in  the  irbesartan  group,  and  79  (14.1%)  in  the  amlodipine  group.  The 
incidence and causes are similar in the 3 treatment groups. There were 130 deaths adjudicated to the 
cardiovascular  system  (49  irbesartan,  41  placebo,  and  40  amlodipine)  and  76  deaths  in  the  General 
body system (26  placebo, 26 amlodipine and 24 irbesartan). In addition, 8 randomised subjects died 
but  never  received  study  medication.  The  most  frequent  adjudicated  cause  of  death  in  the 
cardiovascular  system  was  sudden  death  (5.3%  placebo,  5.0%  irbesartan  and  4.1%  amlodipine), 
followed by MI (1.9% irbesartan, 1.4% amlodipine, and 1.1% placebo) and invasive cardiac procedure 
(1.2% irbesartan, 0.9% amlodipine, and 0.7% placebo). 
Fewer subjects experienced a hypertensive crisis in the amlodipine group (1 subject with amlodipine 
10  mg)  compared  to  the  placebo  (7  subjects)  and  irbesartan  groups  (7  subjects  with  irbesartan  300 
mg). All seven of the hypertensive crises in the irbesartan group were assessed as unrelated to study 
28/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drug  and  five  such  cases  were  assessed  as  severe.  Only  one  of  the  cases  in  the  placebo  group  was 
graded severe.  
A total of seven subjects (4 placebo and 3 irbesartan) experienced a hypoglycemic coma or symptoms, 
or diabetic coma or complication during and up to 14 days post double-blind therapy. Regarding the 
irbesartan-exposed  subjects,  two  patients  experienced  a  hypoglycemic  coma  and  one  experienced 
hypoglycemic symptoms. These cases were assessed as unrelated to study drug. 
Anaemia was reported slightly more frequently in the irbesartan group, heart failure tended to occur 
more frequently in the amlodipine group and pulmonary congestion was less frequent in the irbesartan 
group. Conversely, myocardial infarction tended to occur less frequently in the amlodipine group. 
The  only  treatment-emergent  laboratory  AE  with  a  clearly  higher  incidence  in  the  irbesartan  group 
was  high  serum  potassium:  9.4%  with  placebo,  8.1%  with  amlodipine  and  23.2%  with  irbesartan. 
Sixteen  subjects  with  persistent  hyperkalemia  were  discontinued  due  to  persistent  hyperkalemia: 
11 with irbesartan, 3with amlodipine, and 2with placebo. 
One  hundred and seven  (18.6%) irbesartan subjects  met the  marked  abnormality criteria (>6  mEq/l) 
for  high  potassium  values,  compared  to  34  (6.2%)  amlodipine  subjects,  and  34  (6.0%)  placebo 
subjects. The data were reanalysed using a more clinically relevant cut-off (> 5.5 mEq/l) following a 
request  from  CPMP.  The  results  showed  a  high  frequency  of  mild  transient  elevations  in  serum 
potassium and in IDNT a large relative risk reduction was observed in subjects who developed mild 
hyperkalemia,  although  these  results  should  be  regarded  with  caution.  These  laboratory  findings 
lacked clinical significance given that few patients discontinued therapy or required intervention due 
to mild hyperkalemia. 
Discussion  
The MAH has conducted two studies to support this indication: IRMA 2 included patients with early 
renal damage whereas IDNT included patients with more advanced renal impairment. As hypertension 
itself can be a risk factor for the renal disease, comparability between the groups of treatment both at 
baseline and  at the end of the study was  ensured. Although  the  recommended target levels of  blood 
pressure  for  the  target  population  were  higher  than  those  currently  recommended  at  the  time  the 
pivotal studies were performed, this should not impact the results of either study as long as the blood 
pressure levels attained were comparable accross the treatment groups. 
It  is  generally  believed  that  interference  in  the  renin-angiotensin  system  with  ACEIs  slows  the 
progression  of  renal  disease  in  patients  with  type  1  diabetes,  making  an  ACE-I  the  preferable 
comparator instead of a calcium channel blocker. However, direct proof that they decrease the rate of 
progression  of  renal  damage  in  hypertensive  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  is  not  available,  and 
consequenly,  the  clinical  trials  necessarily  included  a  placebo  arm.  A  further  comparator  arm  is 
included in the IDNT study, namely amlodipine, to assess whether any improvement is related to the 
renin-angiotensin system interference and not just to normalisation of blood pressure. 
Although the recommended posology in the SPC (initial dose 150 mg, maintenance dose 300 mg per 
day)  is  not  in  line  with  the  titration  scheme  used  in  both  studies  (two  step  titration  from  75mg  to 
150mg followed by 300mg), no major safety concerns are anticipated based on the data provided. In 
addition, the proposed dosing regimen is expected to facilitate patient compliance.  
• 
IRMA 2 
Considering the Note for Guidance on clinical investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of 
diabetes mellitus (CPMP/EWP/1080), the study objectives and endpoints are appropriate. Progression 
of  microalbuminuria  to  macroalbuminuria  is  an  "intermediate"  endpoint  that  should  preferably  be 
supported by at least 24-month data indicating a favourable evolution of glomerular filtration (GFR). 
Both in absolute and relative terms, the risk reduction in time to occurrence of clinical proteinuria with 
29/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the 300 mg dose is statistically significant and appears sustained after 4 weeks of treatment cessation, 
despite the lack of a favourable evolution of GFR compared to placebo, even if it is acknowledged that 
IRMA-2 was neither optimal nor powered to demonstrate a beneficial effect on GFR due to the study 
design and the relatively short follow-up (indeed, GFR was only assessed in the GFR substudy). This 
lack  of  positive  effect  of  irbesartan  on  GFR  has  been  reflected  in  section  5.1  of  the  SPC.  In  fact,  a 
“rebound  effect”  on  GFR  and  creatinine  clearance  was  observed  as  both  tended  to  decrease  more 
during irbesartan than placebo treatment, especially during the initial 3 months of treatment. It must be 
noted,  however,  that  previous  studies  suggest  that  the  faster  initial  decline  in  GFR  (or  creatinine 
clearance)  is  due  to  a  functional  (haemodynamic)  effect  of  anti-hypertensive  treatment  and  is 
reversible, while the sustained slower decline reflects the beneficial effect on progression of diabetic 
nephropathy.  In  any  case,  the  results  with  regard  to  GFR  change  were  not  statistically  significantly 
different between irbesartan and placebo in this trial. 
As stated previously, a change in GFR is considered a harder endpoint than a delay in the progression 
to clinical albuminuria. However, in view of the patients’ early-stage disease, the slow course of the 
nephropathy over the short period of two years, and the haemodynamic effect of the antihypertensive 
treatment, it would be difficult to distinguish differences in GFR changes between groups at this early 
stage  of  the  disease.  The  alternative  use  of  kidney  biopsies  to  analyse  renal  integrity  is  not  very 
feasible. Thus, a significant delay in the more surrogate endpoint “progression to macroalbuminuria” 
is considered clinically relevant  despite the absence  of a  positive effect on GFR. In this  respect, the 
results of the IDNT trial provide reassurance since irbesartan was not found to have deleterious effects 
on the kidney.  
The demographic and disease characteristics were adequately balanced between the groups. Subgroup 
analyses  have  shown  that  the  non-significant  imbalance  in  some  specific  baseline  characteristics 
(duration  of  diabetes,  prior  insulin  use  or  prior  antihypertensive  medication)  cannot  explain  the 
differences in the primary efficacy outcome as observed in the IRMA2 trial. Similarly, supplementary 
analyses with regard to proportion of patients achieving target BP level in the treatment groups does 
not suggest any clinically significant differences. 
The  safety  profile  of  irbesartan  (150  mg  or  300  mg)  in  the  population  of  patients  with  hypertension 
and  incipient  diabetic  type  2  nephropathy  is  acceptable  and  does  not  greatly  differ  from  the  one 
observed in general hypertension. The risk of hyperkalemia in this patient population with elevated BP 
and early diabetic nephropathy appears low. Only dizziness and diarrhoea were clearly more frequent 
during irbesartan 300 mg compared to placebo. These findings are already reflected in section 4.8 of 
the SPC. 
Regarding the possibility of interaction between oral antidiabetic treatments (metformin, sulfonylureas 
and  thiazolidinediones)  and  irbesartan,  although  no  proper  drug-drug  interaction  studies  have  been 
performed,  potentially  and  clinically  relevant  interactions  between  antidiabetic  drugs  (either 
metabolised through the CYP2C9/other isoenzime pathways or not metabolised) and irbesartan are not 
anticipated.  In  addition,  data  provided  on  glycemic  control  and  other  related  adverse  events  are 
reassuring regarding the safety profile of the drug in diabetic populations. 
• 
IDNT study 
The  general  design  of  the  trial  is  appropriate  and  the  composite  endpoint  of  doubling  of  serum 
creatinine, progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and all-cause mortality acceptable, although 
the study was not powered to detect differences in the individual subcomponents. Time to doubling of 
serum  creatinine  and  the  evolution  of  chronic  renal  failure  defined  as  the  need  for  maintenance 
dialysis  or  transplantation  or  sustained  increase  in  plasma  creatinine  (>250  µmol/l)  are  considered 
hard  endpoints  in  this  population.  In  the  current  study,  ESRD  was  defined  as  initiation  of  dialysis, 
renal  transplantation,  or  a  serum  creatinine  of  6.0  mg/dl  (530 µmol/l) or above.  The addition  of  all-
cause mortality to the primary endpoint is justified since the analysis of renal disease progression in 
this group of patients can be confounded by premature cardiovascular deaths.  
30/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary composite endpoint was statistically significantly in favour of irbesartan over placebo and 
amlodipine. The overall level of risk reduction in the composite endpoint can be considered clinically 
significant  despite  the  fact  that  the  result  was  driven  mainly  by  the  doubling  of  serum  creatinine 
component.  A  drawback  is  that  the  difference  vs.  neither  placebo  nor  amlodipine  was  statistically 
significant  with  regard  to  reaching  the  ESRD  endpoint,  but  the  trend  in  the  right  and  expected 
direction  is  acknowledged.  No  trends  were  observed  for  all-cause  mortality.  The  aim  to  achieve 
similar BP control in the 3 treatment groups failed since decreases from baseline in both SeSBP and 
SeDBP  were  statistically  significantly  higher  in  the  irbesartan  group  compared  to  placebo,  but  not 
compared  to  amlodipine.  Nonetheless,  given  the  statistically  significant  risk  reduction  (primary 
efficacy composite endpoint) compared to both amlodipine and placebo, this is not considered to have 
an impact on validity of the results 
Post-hoc subgroup analyses showing an apparent lack of efficacy in females, non-white subjects and 
in North American centres as well as weaker efficacy in elderly patients. Although the trial was not 
powered  to  observe  treatment  benefits  in  subgroup  populations  and  subgroup  analyses  must  be 
regarded with great caution, these findings are a cause for concern casting doubt on the robustness of 
the  results.  It  is  well  known  that  blacks  (or  Afro-Americans)  generally  have  low  renin  hypertension 
and consequently respond less well than whites to treatments that act through renin angiotensin system 
inhibition.  The  results  in  females,  based  on  a  substantial  number  of  subjects,  are  of  greater  concern 
since  no  apparent  explanation  is  available.  As  a  result,  appropriate  warning  statements  have  been 
included in section 4.4 of the SPC and a summary of the actual findings in these subgroups has been 
included in section 5.1.  
The  secondary  and  tertiary  objectives  of  the  study  are  overly  ambitious  considering  the  size  of  the 
study and the length of follow-up. No statistically significant differences were observed between the 3 
treatment  groups.  A  lack  of  difference  in  cardiovascular  events  with  respect  to  “placebo”  (which  in 
fact consists of active antihypertensive treatment based on diuretics and alpha and beta blockers) is not 
surprising  since  both  groups  are  presumably  equally  "protected"  by  adequate  hypertension  control. 
However,  a  trend  in  favour  of  amlodipine  in  the  secondary  cardiovascular  endpoint  (i.e.  more  CV 
events  with  irbesartan,  especially  in  females)  raises  the  question  whether  the  renal  benefit  observed 
with  irbesartan  is  not  counterbalanced  by  a  lower  decrease  in  cardiovascular  risk  compared  to  other 
treatment  alternatives,  particularly  ACEIs.  With  regard  to  this  observation,  the  applicant  has  rightly 
indicated  that  subjects  treated  with  irbesartan  had  a  longer  follow-up  on  study  drug  than  subjects 
treated  with  amlodipine,  since  irbesartan  significantly  delayed  the  development  of  the  primary 
outcome.  This  introduces  observational  bias  in  the  cardiovascular  endpoint  comparison  in  favour  of 
amlodipine. Nonetheless, this lack of benefit in terms of CV events has been mentioned in the SPC 
To conclude, a global renal benefit has been shown in patients with advanced renal disease, even if no 
cardiovascular  benefit  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  studied  population.  Thus,  it  would  appear 
unreasonable not to allow the treatment with irbesartan due to theoretical considerations on CV risk.  
Regarding  the  safety  profile  of  irbesartan,  there  was  no  indication  of  an  increased  incidence  of 
hypoglycaemic  complications  in  the  irbesartan  group  compared  to  placebo.  The  frequency  of 
hypertensive crisis was also similar between groups. The frequency of anaemia marked abnormality of 
decreased Hb was slightly higher in the irbesartan group compared to placebo, but the review of cases 
of  severe  anaemia  does  not  suggest  a  causal  relationship.  Dizziness,  orthostatic  dizziness  and 
orthostatic  hypotension  in  both  IDNT  and  IRMA  2  studies  were  more  frequently  reported  in  the 
irbesartan  group  but  were  of  little  clinical  significance,  mild  or  moderate  in  intensity  and  did  not 
require  any  action  to  be  taken.  Regarding  dyspepsia  and  diarrhoea,  both  occurred  more  often  in  the 
irbesartan group. However there was only one discontinuation for that reason.  
The very high frequency of hyperkalaemia was an obvious concern. The data on the safety profile of 
patients  with  hyperkalemia  are  reassuring.  There  is  a  high  frequency  of  mild  transient  elevations  of 
serum potassium above 5.5  mEq/l in  these  patients, and in IDNT a large relative risk reduction was 
observed  in  subjects  who  developed  mild  hyperkalemia  although,  these  results  should  be  regarded 
with caution since they arise further to subgroup analyses. Moreover, the data presented show a lack 
of  clinical  significance  of  these  laboratory  findings,  given  that  few  patients  discontinued  therapy  or 
31/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
required  intervention  due  to  mild  hyperkalemia.  Despite  the  reassuring  data,  it  is  recognised  that 
AIIRAs  can  cause  elevations  of  serum  potassium  through  a  combination  of  decreasing  serum 
aldosterone and a reduction in GFR, and that this risk is related to the characteristic of the population 
being  treated,  with  a  high  risk  among  patients  with  advanced  renal  disease.  This  fact  highlights  the 
importance of monitoring serum potassium in all patients treated with irbesartan, but especially in type 
2  diabetic  patients  with  proteinuria.  A  warning  regarding  hyperkalaemia  in  patients  with  overt 
proteinuria  due  to  diabetic  renal  disease  as  well  as  a  recommendation  for  adequate  frequent 
monitoring has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
In conclusion, the safety profile of the drug in the proposed indication is acceptable. 
7. 
Post authorisation: safety updates 
Pregnancy 
In  the  second  and  third  trimesters,  substances  that  act  directly  on  the  renin-angiotensin-system  can 
cause  foetal  or  neonatal  renal  failure,  foetal  skull  hypoplasia  and  even  foetal  death,  therefore 
Aprovel/Karvea  is  contra-indicated  in  the  second  and  third  trimesters  of  pregnancy.  As  a 
preacuationary measure, Aprovel/Karvea should not be used during the first trimester of pregnancy. If 
pregnancy is diagnosed, Aprovel/Karvea should be discontinued as soon as possible and foetal skull 
and renal function should be checked with echography if, inadvertently, the treatment has been taken 
for a long period.  
Interaction with other medicinal products 
Cases  of  potential  interaction  with  lithium  have  been  reported.  The  combination  of  lithium  and 
Aprovel/Karvea  is  not  recommended.  If  the  combination  proves  necessary,  careful  monitoring  of 
serum lithium levels is recommended during concomitant use. 
As  with  ACE  inhibitors,  concomitant  use  of  AIIRAs  and  NSAIDs  may  lead  to  an  increased  risk  of 
worsening  of  renal  function,  including  possible  acute  renal  failure,  and  an  increase  in  serum 
potassium,  especially  in  patients  with  poor  pre-existing  renal  function.  The  combination  should  be 
administered  with  caution,  especially  in  the  elderly.  Patients  should  be  adequately  hydrated  and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter. 
Side effects 
Cases of cough and dysgeusia have been reported very rarely with irbesartan.  
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk  profile  of Aprovel/Karvea  was favourable in  the treatment  of  essential  hypertension and 
renal disease in patients with hypertension and type II diabetis mellitus as part of an antihypertensive 
drug regimen.      
32/32 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
