European Medicines Agency 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1 
Introduction 
Following a request from the EMEA regarding the obligation to submit all paediatric data, the MAH 
submitted  the  results  two  Phase  I  studies,  including  pharmacokinetic  data,  and  one  clinical  dose-
ranging study of ibersartan in paediatric patients with hypertension. Further to the assessment of these 
data, the CHMP requested an update of sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1 of the SPC.  
The  MAH  has  applied  to  update  the  SPC  in  line  with  the  conclusions  adopted  by  the  CHMP  on  14 
December 2005, with the exception of the wording for section 4.8. In addition, the MAH has proposed 
a minor change to the wording of a sentence in section 2 of the PL for clarity. Also, to be in alignment 
with the QRD templates, the MAH would like to make a correction in the section 9 of the SmPC of the 
film-coated tablets. 
1.2 
Clinical aspects 
The  MAH  has  submitted  2  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  hypertensive  children  and  adolescents  and  1 
study  assessing  the  dose-response  relationship  in  hypertensive  patients  aged  6  -  16  years  -  see  table 
below. 
Main Objetive 
Design 
Study ID 
Status 
Type of report 
CV131076 
Completed 
Full 
CV131141 
Prematurely 
stopped 
Abbreviated 
CV131154 
Completed 
Full 
Study CV131076 
Evaluate PK and 
antihypertensive response in 
hypertensive children and 
adolescents.  
single dose PK in children 1 
month to 6 yrs of age with a 
secondary goal of assessing 
the safety of irbesartan in 
children 1 month to 6 yrs 
Evaluate the dose-response 
relationship in change from 
baseline in trough SeSBP 
with high, medium, and low 
doses of irbesartan in 
children and adolescents 
aged 6 - 16 years with 
baseline SeSBP ≥ 90th 
percentile for 
age/gender/height. 
Number of 
treated 
subjects 
Duration of 
treatment 
23 children 
enrolled and 
22 completed 
Period A: 7 - 14 day 
withdrawal period 
Period B: 2 - 4 weeks 
Open-label, 
randomised, two 
period group 
with PBO lead-
in 
Open-label, 
Multi-site, 
single dose 
study 
2 subjects 
enrolled 1 
dosed 
Single Dose 
Dose-ranging 
study with 
placebo 
controlled 
withdrawal 
period, followed 
by open-label, 
long-term 
extension period 
441 subjects 
enrolled 
Period B, 3 weeks 
Period C, max 
treatment 2 weeks 
Period D, 26 weeks: 
Study CV131076 was an open-label, multicentre study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of irbesartan 
capsules (12.5, 25, 37.5, 50, 75 and 100 mg) in hypertensive children and adolescents. The secondary 
objective  was  to  evaluate  the  change  from  baseline  in  seated  systolic  (SeSBP)  and  diastolic  blood 
pressure (SeDBP) on days 1 and 29 of the second study period. The study had 2 treatment periods. In 
period A subjects were withdrawn from antihypertensive medication for 7 days (or 14 days if a longer 
washout  period  was  needed).  A  stable  dose  of  nifedipine  and/or  hidrochlorotiazide  was  allowed  if 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
necessary. In period B, subjects received approx 2 mg/kg irbesartan qd for 4 weeks (or 2 wks if subject 
participation for 4 weeks was not possible) up to a maximum dose of 150 mg qd. For each individual 
patient the dose was kept constant throughout the study. PK sampling was performed on the first day 
of  period  B  and  on  day  15  (or  on  any  day  between  days  15  and  29).  The  dissolution  profile  of  the 
irbesartan  capsule  formulation  was  equivalent  to  that  of  irbesartan  capsule  granulation  mixed  with 
apple sauce. Subjects whose BP could not be adequately controlled were discontinued. 
Subjects included were hypertensive male or non-pregnant female children/adolescents, 1 to 16 years 
of age with a SeSBP and/or SeDBP ≥ 95th percentile for the child’s sex/age/height.  
The primary efficacy endpoints were; AUC∞ on day B1, AUCτ on day B15 (trapezoidal area under the 
concentration-time  curve  in  one  dosing  interval),  Cmax  adjusted  to  that  of  a  70kg  adult,  Clt  t1/2  and 
accumulation  index  (AUCτ  on  day  B15/AUCτ  on  day  B1).  Regarding  safety,  a  complete  physical 
examination  and  a  12-lead  ECG  were  performed  at  screening  and  prior  to  study  discharge. 
Additionally safety assessment was based on adverse events (AE) reports and clinical laboratory tests. 
The sample size was calculated based on the 37.9% reported coefficient of variation CV(%) for AUC 
after 29 days of treatment from a previous study where 100 mg qd of irbesartan was administered to 
male  and  female  adult  subjects  with  mild  to  moderate  hypertension.  According  to  the  MAH  the 
proposed sample size of 24 subjects allowed approximately 95% confidence that the estimated AUC 
mean would differ from the true population mean by at most 16%. 
Results 
Of the 23 subjects enrolled and randomised, 22 completed the study. Of those 12 were adolescents >12 
years, 9 were children between 6-12 years and 2 were children < 6 years. The majority of them were 
black and all 3 age groups were balanced regarding gender. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
Plasma samples were collected immediately prior to dosing, and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 
24  hours  after  dosing  on  Days  1  and  15  (or  later).  The  samples  were  assayed  for  irbesartan  by  a 
validated HPLC/fluorescence method with a lower limit of quantitation of 1.0 ng/ml.  
Irbesartan pk parameters and the dose-normalised AUC and Cmax were tabulated and 95% confidence 
intervals (CI) were constructed around the dose-adjusted mean parameter. Pk parameters were pooled 
by  age  groups  as  the  MAH  states  that  no  specific  trend  for  gender-related  difference  in  the  pk  of 
irbesartan  was  evident.  An  accurate  estimation  of  the  terminal  elimination  half-life  could  not  be 
obtained after the first dose because the plasma samples were collected only up to 24 hours post-dose 
(less than three half-lives) in most of the subjects. 
The  results for the  2 children <  6 years included  in this study have  been omited.  A summary of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters (single dose and steady state) in the 6-12 years age group and in the 13-16 
years age group are shown in the tables below. 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According  to  the  MAH,  pk  parameters  were  comparable  between  the  6-12  year  and  the  13-16  age 
groups. The absorption of irbesartan was rapid, with peak plasma concentrations attained 1.5-2 hours 
after  dosing.  Limited  accumulation  of  irbesartan  (18%)  was  observed  in  plasma  upon  repeated  once 
daily dosing in these subjects.  
These  plasma  concentrations  were,  in  general,  associated  with  decreases  in  SeDBP  and  SeSBP, 
irrespective  if  the  subject  was  receiving  other  concomitant  antihypertensive  medications  (see 
pharmacodynamic results). 
According  to  the  MAH,  in  the  light  of  the  results  provided  a  2  mg/kg  dose  in  paediatric  patients 
resulted  in  an  exposure  comparable  to  that  of  adults  receiving  the  150  mg  dose.  For  reference,  the 
mean Cmax and AUC values of irbesartan following a single 150 mg oral in young adults (18-40 years) 
were 1854 ng/ml and 9715 ng/ml respectively. 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean plasma concentration-time profiles of irbesartan in children and adolescents following single and repeated 
daily 2mg/kg oral doses in study CV131-076, and in adults following a single 150 mg dose in Study CV131-045 
Pharmacodynamic results 
Individual and Mean Change from Baseline in SeSBP/SeDBP on Days B1 and B29. 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  both  treatment  groups  (patients  receiving  and  not  receiving  concomitant  antihypertensive 
medication),  the  administration  of  2  mg/kg  irbesartan  was  associated  with  decreases  in  SeSBP  and 
SeDBP,  except  for  2  subjects;  one  on  day  B15  (004/014)  and  one  on  day  B29  (004/003).  Subject 
004/003  showed  an  increase  in  SeSBD/SeDBP  of  +35/+22  mmHg  at  B29  that  was  attributed  to 
medication non-compliance. 
in  SeSBD/SeDBP  for 
that  did  not  receive  concomitant 
Mean  decreases 
antihypertensive therapy were -8/-7 and -16/-10 mmHg after 14 and 28 days of dosing with ibersartan, 
respectively, while the 11 subjects who continued to receive concomitant antihypertensive therapy had 
additional mean decreases in SeSBD/SeDBP of -5/-8 and -5/-4 mmHg after 14 and 28 days of dosing 
with ibersartan, respectively. 
the  12  subjects 
Safety 
There  were  14  AEs  reported  by  9  subjects.  The  most  frequently  reported  were  headache  and 
pahryngitis;  2  headaches  (1  reported  as  severe)  were  judged  as  possibly  related  to  the  study  drug. 
Urinary red blood cells was the most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in 3 out of 14 notified 
marked abnormalities. There were no deaths and no subjects discontinued from the study because of 
vital sign, ECG or laboratory abnormalities. 
Study CV131154  
This  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  dose-ranging  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
effectiveness of 3 irbesartan oral tablet dose regimens in the treatment of children (6 years - Tanner 
stage < 3) and adolescents (Tanner stage ≥ 3 - < 17 years) with hypertension or high-normal BP. After 
a lead-in period lasting a maximum of 14 days (Period A), patients were randomised to one of three 
doses  of  irbesartan  (0.5,  1.5  or  4.5  mg/kg)  that  they  received  for  3  weeks  (Period  B).  Then  patients 
were  re-assigned  at  random  to  either  placebo  or  irbesartan  at  the  dose  taken  previously  during  a 
maximum period of 4 weeks (Period C). In adittion, for safety reasons, a 6 month open-label extension 
was also included (period D). The study 4 study periods are described below in more detail: 
Period  A:  During  this  lead-in  period,  previous  antihypertensive  therapy  and  prohibited  concomitant 
medications were withdrawn. At all visits during the study, BP measurements were obtained using the 
Device for Indirect Noninvasive Automatic Mean Arterial Pressure (DINAMAP). 
Period  B:  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  double-blind  treatment  with  one  of  3  irbesartan 
regimens (see study scheme). Following the initial dose, subjects showing signs/symptoms associated 
with hypotension or decreases of ≥ 20 mmHg from baseline in SeSBP/SeDBP were to be discontinued 
from the study. Study medication was titrated up to the assigned target dose after the first week (Visit 
B8);  this  dose  was  continued  for  the  remaining  2  weeks  of  Period  B.  Subjects  who  were  unable  to 
tolerate up-titration to the assigned target dose were eligible for open-label therapy (Period D). 
Period  C:  Subjects  were  re-assigned  to  either  placebo  or  irbesartan  at  the  assigned  target  dose  last 
taken during Period B. BP measurements were taken at the end of Week 1 and Week 2. Subjects who 
discontinued  from  Period  C  could  be  enrolled  directly  into  Period  D,  if  the  investigator  felt  that 
continuing  in  Period  C  was  no  longer  in  the  best  interest  of  the  subject,  the  subject  experienced  an 
increase in BP, or if the subject showed clinical signs or symptoms of uncontrolled hypertension. 
Period  D:  Subjects  who  completed  Period  C  and  subjects  who  met  the  Period  B  or  Period  C 
discontinuation criteria for direct enrolment into Period D entered the open-label extension period of 
26 weeks. Subjects were reintroduced to irbesartan at 0.5 mg/kg. After the initial dose of open-label 
treatment, irbesartan could be titrated from 0.5 mg/kg to 1.5  mg/kg to achieve BP control. The dose 
could be titrated again from 1.5 mg/kg to 4.5 mg/kg 24 ± 3 hours after the previous titration. Irbesartan 
doses  were  adjusted  upward  or  downward  as  needed  throughout  Period  D.  The  use  of  adjunctive 
antihypertensive agents was allowed only during Period D. 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Scheme 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  dose-response  relationship  in  change  from  baseline  in 
trough  SeSBP  at  the  end  of  treatment  Period  B  with  low,  medium,  or  high  doses  of  irbesartan. 
Secondary objectives were; i) to evaluate the change in trough SeSBP for irbesartan (all 3 dose levels 
combined) versus placebo from the end of treatment Period B to the end of the Period C. ii) to evaluate 
the dose-response relationship in change from baseline in trough SeDBP at the end of Period B. iii) to 
evaluate  the  change  in  trough  SeDBP  for  irbesartan  (all  three  dose  levels  combined)  versus  placebo 
from the end of Period B to the end of Period C. iv) to evaluate the percentage of subjects who reach a 
target BP of < 90th percentile for both SeSBP and SeDBP at the end of the treatment Period B v) to 
assess the safety and tolerability of irbesartan in the paediatric population (Periods B and C and D). 
The  target  population  included  children  and  adolescents  (male  and  female,  aged  6  -  16  years 
inclusive) with hypertension (SeSBP or SeDBP ≥ 95th percentile for age, gender, and height) or with 
high-normal BP (SeSBP or SeDBP ≥ 90 to < 95th percentile for age, gender, and height) and either 
diabetes mellitus, or family history of hypertension, or any other condition for which, in the opinion of 
the  investigator,  the  reduction  of  BP  would  be  in  the  best  interest  of  the  child  or  adolescent.  Study 
participants  entering  the  study  based  on  hypertension  criteria  were  to  have  3  qualifying  BP 
measurements ≥ 95th percentile for gender, age, and height. 
The sample size was based on the primary analysis, which tested linear trend across the low, medium, 
and high doses of irbesartan in adjusted mean change from baseline in through SeSBP after 3 weeks of 
double-blind  treatment  during  period  B.  During  the  course  of  the  study,  the  number  of  adolescents 
exceeded  the  planned  number.  To  keep  the  intended  children:adolescent  balance  as  per  the  FDA 
request the planned number of 189 evaluable subjects was increased to 270 (90 per dose level). This 
number would provide a power of 80% to detect a significant trend across the 3 dose groups assuming 
the  smaller  difference  of  5.0  mmHg  between  high  and  low  groups.  A  standard  deviation  of  change 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
from  baseline  in  SeSBP  of  12  mmHg  was  assumed.  A  10%  dropout  rate  between  the  original 
randomisation and the end of Period B was factored in.  
Doses  of  irbesartan  were  selected  based  on  the  adult  daily  dose,  the  comparable  pk  profile  between 
children and adults observed in the CV131076 study and the safety of irbesartan.  
The primary efficacy outcome measure was the change from baseline in trough SeSBP at Week 3 of 
Period B. The most important secondary efficacy outcome measure was the change in trough SeSBP 
from  the  end  of  Period  B  to  the  end  (Week  2)  of  Period  C.  Other  efficacy  measurements  were  the 
changes from original baseline at each visit in trough SeSBP and SeDBP, and the number of subjects 
normalised  at  each  visit  during  the  study.  Normalised  (target)  BP  was  when  the  trough  SeSBP  and 
SeDBP were each less than the respective 90th percentile for a subject’s age, gender, and height. 
The  primary  statistical  analysis  was  a  test  for  linear  trend  across  the  3  dose  groups  with  respect  to 
changes from baseline in trough SeSBP at Week 3 of Period B. The analysis was carried out using a 
linear  contrast  applied  to  the  adjusted  mean  changes  from  an  ANCOVA  model  having  a  term  for 
group and baseline value as covariate. As this test was not significant, a comparison of the changes in 
trough SeSBP between the two groups, any placebo and any irbesartan, from the end of Period B to 
Week 2 of Period C was carried out to evaluate the effect of withdrawal from irbesartan over the 2-
week  period.  This  comparison  was  also  carried  out  for  changes  in  trough  SeDBP  using  a  similar 
ANCOVA  model.  Missing  efficacy  assessments  were  not  imputed  in  any  way  except  for  the  last-
observation-carried-forward  (LOCF)  analyses.  Thus,  subjects  were  excluded  from  treatment 
comparisons of changes from baseline at any visit for which they had a missing baseline value and/or 
a missing assessment at that visit. Similarly, the proportion of therapeutic responders at each visit was 
based only on those subjects with available BP values at that visit. Since the number of subjects who 
discontinued  from  Period  B  in  each  of  the  treatment  groups  was  less  than  10%  of  the  number 
randomised to the group, LOCF analyses were not performed. 
Results 
A  total  of  441  subjects  were  enrolled  into  the  study.  The  figure  below  shows  the  disposition  of  all 
randomised patients. 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposition of patients 
8
 
 
 
Baseline demographics 
Efficacy results 
Double-blind Treatment (Periods B and C): 
Mean changes in trough SeSBP and SeDBP from baseline to the end of Week 3 in Period B and mean 
changes from the end of Period B to Week 2 of Period C in trough SeSBP and SeDBP are shown in 
the following tables. 
All the treatment groups showed mean decreases in trough SeSBP and SeDBP at the end of Period B. 
The adjusted mean reduction from baseline in trough SeSBP was similar for subjects treated with low 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
(11.7 mmHg), medium (9.3 mmHg) and high (13.2 mmHg) dose irbesartan. There was no evidence of 
a  significant  dose-response  relationship  for  changes  in  trough  SeSBP  (p>0.05).  The  adjusted  mean 
changes for SeDBP revealed a statistically significant linear trend (p<0.05). 
From  the  end  of  Period  B  to  Week  2  of  Period  C  small  mean  changes  in  SeSBP  and  SeDBP  were 
noted in the group remaining on irbesartan, whereas increases of 2.4 mmHg and 2.0 mmHg for SeSBP 
and SeDBP, respectively, were observed in the group withdrawn from irbesartan (Any Placebo). 
The proportion of subjects reaching target BP at the end of Week 3 in Period B was 55% in the 0.5/0.5 
mg/kg  group,  41%  in  the  0.5/1.5  mg/kg  group,  and  51%  in  the  1.5/4.5  mg/kg  group.  By  the  end  of 
Period C, only 35% of subjects randomised to placebo achieved target BP, whereas 46% of subjects 
remaining on irbesartan achieved target BP. 
For  Period  D,  when  all  irbesartan  subjects  were  combined,  starting  on  0.5  mg/kg  and  titrating  as 
required,  the  mean  reductions  from  original  baseline  were  between  12.3  and  16.4  mmHg  for  trough 
SeSBP and between 4.1 and 5.6 mmHg for SeDBP at the various timepoints over a 26-week period. 
Proportions of subjects reaching target BP ranged from 53%-66%. These proportions were sometimes 
comparable to and sometimes slightly higher than the proportions reaching target BP during Period B. 
Safety results 
Summaries of adverse events (AEs) during Period B and Period C are presented in the following table. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  deaths  were  reported  during  the  study.  One  subject  in  Period  B  and  two  subjects  in  Period  C 
experienced serious adverse events (SAEs) during double-blind therapy. One subject was discontinued 
from  Period  B  because  of  an  SAE  (erythema  multiforme)  attributed  to  irbesartan.  SAEs  in  two 
subjects  (diabetic  ketoacidosis  and  syncope)  were  categorised  as  unrelated  and  unlikely  related  to 
study drug. 
AEs in Period B led to discontinuation of study drug in 8 subjects; 4 subjects were enrolled directly in 
Period D and 4 subjects discontinued the study. Hypotension led to discontinuation of study drug in 5 
subjects  and  was  reported  as  severe  in  3  of  them.  Another  subject  was  discontinued  from  Period  B 
because of dizziness and enrolled in Period D. 
Period B: Headache of mild to moderate intensity was the most frequently reported AE, occurring in 
14.5% of subjects receiving any irbesartan treatment. Other AEs that occurred in ≥ 3% of subjects in 
any  treatment  group  were  upper  respiratory  infection  (URI),  nasopharyngitis  (both  considered 
unrelated) and cough. AEs in 44 (13.8%) subjects receiving any irbesartan treatment were attributed to 
the study drug. Headache (25 subjects; 7.9%) was most frequently reported AE categorised as related 
to irbesartan; other related AEs were hypotension (2.2%), dizziness (1.9%) and cough (0.9%). 
Period  C:  The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  greater  in  the  placebo  group  (32.9%)  than  in  subjects 
treated  with  any  irbesartan  (26.8%).  Among  the  irbesartan  treatment  groups,  the  incidence  of  AEs 
appeared to increase with each dose of irbesartan, a trend not observed for the related AEs. Headache 
was  the  most  common  AE  reported  during  Period  C.  The  incidence  of  study  drug-related  headache 
was  similar  in  the  placebo  subjects  (5.5%)  and  in  the  combined  irbesartan-treated  subjects  (5.4%). 
Three  subjects  receiving  irbesartan  had  mild  elevations  of  blood  potassium  levels,  which  resolved 
spontaneously within 13 to 89 days post onset. Other AEs that occurred in ≥ 3 % of subjects in any 
treatment group were cough, nasopharyngitis, URI, and pharyngitis. 
Period D: The following table presents a summary of AEs during Period D. 
SAEs were generally of mild to moderate intensity and deemed by the investigator as unrelated or not 
likely  related  to  irbesartan.  One  subject  discontinued  the  study  because  of  mild  elevations  of  blood 
bilirubin  categorised  as  possibly  related  to  irbesartan.  Consistent  with  the  double-blind  treatment 
phase,  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs  were  headache  (27.2%),  and  nasopharyngitis  (10.5%). 
Generally, headache was of mild to moderate intensity, although in 3 subjects (1.0%), headache was 
categorised as severe. It was also the most frequently occurring AE that was categorised as related to 
study  drug  (39  subjects;  13.3%).  Other  AEs  that  occurred  in  ≥  3  %  of  subjects  were:  URI,  cough, 
rhinitis, dizziness, pharyngitis, epistaxis, and viral infection. 
Laboratory Evaluations: 
Period  B:  During  Period  B,  laboratory  marked  abnormalities  (MAs)  were  most  commonly  observed 
for serum creatinine (ie, >1.5 times pretreatment) and creatine kinase (CK, ie, > 4 times pretreatment). 
In 3 subjects, creatinine marked abnormalities (MA) continued into Period C. Creatinine returned to 
baseline levels at the end of Period C in 1 subject, and 2 subjects did not continue in the study beyond 
Period  B.  Six  subjects  had  elevated  CK  levels  that  met  the  MA  criteria.  There  were  no  reports  of 
concurrent myalgia, muscle aches, or myositis in any of the subjects. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Period  C: Four  subjects,  3 assigned to  placebo  and  1 subject in  the  irbesartan high-dose  group,  had 
elevated  CK  levels  that  met  the  MA  criteria.  There  were  no  reports  of  concurrent  myalgia,  muscle 
aches  or  myositis in  any of the subjects. Four  subjects (2  placebo group  and  2  irbesartan  1.5  mg/kg 
group) had creatinine levels that met the MA criteria.  
Period  D:  The  most  frequently  observed  MAs  during  Period  D  were  elevated  creatinine  levels  (19 
subjects;  6.5%).  Generally,  creatinine  MAs  did  not  exceed  the  laboratory  reference  range.  In  12 
subjects, creatinine MAs were single occurrences that returned to baseline levels at the end of Period 
D. In one subject creatinine increased from baseline, 0.7 mg/dl, to 3.0 mg/dl at the end of open-label 
dosing.  Fourteen  subjects  (4.8%)  had  low  haemoglobin  (Hb)  levels  that  met  the  MA  criteria  (ie,  > 
3g/dl  decrease  from  pretreatment).  In  8  subjects,  Hb  MAs  were  single  occurrences  and  returned  to 
baseline levels at the end of open-label treatment. Five subjects also had low Hb MAs during Period B 
or Period C. Six subjects (2.0%) were found to have MAs of CK at the end of open-label treatment. 
There were no associated AEs of myalgia, muscle aches, or myositis.  
Discussion 
Efficacy 
Limited  pharmacokinetic  data  of  irbesartan  in  children  and  adolescents  were  obtained  from  a  small 
study of 23  hypertensive children  and adolescents  (CV131076)  with an inadequate representation  of 
children under 6 years of age. Although some PK parameters of interest, like Cmin and T1/2, were not 
evaluated, the results showed that Cmax, AUC and clearance rates were comparable to those observed 
in adults receiving 150 mg irbesartan daily. A limited accumulation of irbesartan (18%) in plasma was 
observed  upon  repeated  once  daily  dosing.  A  brief  summary  of  these  findings  has  been  included  in 
section 5.2 of the SPC.  
Regarding  pharmacodynamic  effects  in  study  CV131076,  greater  reductions  in  SBP  and  DBP  were 
observed  in  patients  taking  concomitant  antihypertensive  medication.  These  drugs  probably  did  not 
affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  irbesartan  but  a  possible  effect  of  these  antihypertensive  on  the 
reduction  of  BP  observed  in  this  trial  cannot  be  ruled  out.  Thus,  this  study  provides  no  conclusive 
information on the pharmacodynamics of irbesartan in children and adolescents.  
Study CV131154 was a dose ranging clinical trial that evaluated the efficacy and safety of a range of 
doses of irbesartan in 318 children and adolescents with hypertension or borderline hypertension. The 
analysis of the main endpoint showed a positive effect of irbesartan on the reduction of SeSBP at the 
end of the double-blind period. This effect was not dose-dependent and a similar reduction of SeSBP 
was observed with the 3 doses administered (-11.7 mm Hg for the lowest dose, -9.3 with the medium 
dose and -13.2  with  the  highest  dose).  As  this period  did not include  a placebo  arm it is difficult to 
know whether this flat response to irbesartan was due to the fact that all doses selected were in the flat 
portion of the dose-response curve or to a relative lack of efficacy of irbesartan in this population.  
When  the  effect  of  irbesartan  both  in  SeSBP  and  SeDBP  was  analysed  over  the  subsequent  2-week 
period where patients were re-randomised to either irbesartan or placebo, an increase in trough SeSBP 
and SeDBP towards baseline was observed. The placebo group showed a 2.3 mm Hg greater increase 
in  the  adjusted  mean  change  for  SeSBP  and  SeDBP  versus  irbesartan.  Although  the  difference  was 
statistically significant, the small magnitude of the effect casts doubt on the true effect of irbesartan on 
BP in hypertensive children, suggesting that irbesartan would not constitute a useful antihypertensive 
regimen for paediatric patients. These findings have been included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
Regarding the responder rate, 55%, 41% and 51% of patients in the low, middle and high dose groups, 
respectively,  reached  the  target  BP  at  the  end  of  Week  3  in  Period  B  reflecting  the  lack  of  dose-
response  relationship.  At  the  end  of  Period  C,  35%  of  subjects  randomised  to  placebo  and  46%  of 
subjects  remaining  on  irbesartan  achieved  target  BP.  These  results  are  in  line  with  the  data  on  BP 
reduction.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To conclude, the efficacy results from this study are inconclusive and cannot determine the adequate 
therapeutic doses to be administered in hypertensive children. Moreover, these results do not establish 
the efficacy of irbesartan in hypertensive children and adolescents and are insufficient to support the 
use of irbesartan in children, as reflectected in sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SPC.  
Safety  
Overall,  the  incidences  of  AEs  and  related  AEs  did  not  appear  to  be  dose  related.  The  following 
related  AEs  occurred  in  the  3-week  double-blind  phase:  headache  (7.9%),  hypotension  (2.2%), 
dizziness  (1.9%),  cough  (0.9%).  Mean  changes  from  baseline  in  standard  laboratory  tests  within 
treatment  groups  were  generally  small  and  clinically  unremarkable;  the  most  frequent  laboratory 
abnormalities observed n the 26-week open-label period of this trial were creatinine increases (6.5%) 
and elevated CK values (2%). This information has been included in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Conclusions and benefit risk assessment 
Only  limited  information  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  irbesartan  in  children 
and  adolescents has  been  provided. Results  from the  dose-ranging study showed a  positive effect  of 
irbesartan on the reduction of BP but this effect was not dose-dependent. When the effect on BP was 
analysed  in  the  withdrawal  period,  an  increase  in  BP  towards  baseline  was  observed.  The  placebo 
group  showed  a  2.3  mm  Hg  greater  increase  in  the  adjusted  mean  change  for  systolic  and  diastolic 
blood  pressure  versus  irbesartan.  This  difference  was  statistically  significant,  but  its  magnitude  was 
small,  casting  doubt  on  the  true  effect  of  irbesartan  in  hypertensive  children.  These  results  are 
insufficient  both  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  irbesartan  on  hypertensive  children  and  adolescents 
and to determine the adequate therapeutic doses to be administered in this population.  
The  adverse  events  seem  to  be  similar  to  those  reported  in  adults  receiving  irbesartan  but  data  on 
safety in children is still limited. 
In summary, the data provided on the effect of irbesartan in children and adolescents are limited and 
insufficient to support the use of irbesartan in children. However, the CHMP considers that it would be 
useful for practising paediatricians to have a summary of the data from the studies included in the SPC 
(sections 5.1 5.2, 4.8 and 4.2), provided that a statement explaining that existing data are insufficient 
to recommend its use in children is included in sections 4.2. and 4.4. of the SPC. Therefore, the SmPC 
has been updated to reflect the data provided, in accordance with the currently approved Guideline on 
Summary of Product Characteristics (October 2005). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
