21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/40711/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Aptivus  
International non-proprietary name: TIPRANAVIR 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000631/II/0060 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Boehringer Ingelheim 
International GmbH submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 23 August 2013 an application for 
a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
Aptivus 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
name: 
TIPRANAVIR 
See Annex A 
Type 
C.I.z 
C.I.z - Changes (Safety/Efficacy) of Human and Veterinary Medicinal 
II 
Products - Other variation 
The MAH proposed the update of sections 4.3 and 4.5 of the SmPC to include information regarding 
quetiapine following a class labelling for all HIV protease inhibitors. The Package Leaflet was proposed 
to be updated accordingly. 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to add Croatia to the list of local representatives in the 
Package Leaflet. 
Furthermore, minor linguistic changes (linguistic corrections) will be proposed to the German/Austrian, 
Italian, Spanish product information 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:  Joseph Emmerich 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
23 August 2013 
22 September 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
29 October 2013 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
21 November 2013 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Aptivus, tipranavir, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for combination antiretroviral 
treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated adults and adolescents 12 years of age or older with 
virus resistant to multiple protease inhibitors. Aptivus should only be used as part of an active 
combination antiretroviral regimen in patients with no other therapeutic options. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/40711/2014 
Page 2/5 
 
 
  
  
This indication is based on the results of two phase III studies, performed in highly pre-treated adult 
patients (median number of 12 prior antiretroviral agents) with virus resistant to protease inhibitors and 
of one phase II study investigating pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of Aptivus in mostly 
treatment-experienced adolescent patients aged 12 to 18 years. 
Background on this application: Signal review during the July 2013 PRAC meeting 
Lopinavir and ritonavir are protease inhibitors used in the treatment of human-immunodeficiency virus 
type I (HIV-1) infection. 
A signal of an interaction between lopinavir/ritonavir and quetiapine leading to major sedation was 
identified by France, based on one case described in a scientific conference in France (Peytavin G. 
Clinical case #1: drug interaction and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) for HIV, 7eme Workshop 
Nouvelles molecules et strategies antiretrovirales.2013;NA:1-43). The Rapporteur for this product 
confirmed that the signal needed initial analysis and prioritisation by the PRAC. 
Discussion during the July 2013 PRAC meeting 
During its July 2013 plenary, the PRAC noted the case report of major sedation leading to deep coma in 
a patient receiving quetiapine and treated with lopinavir / ritonavir used in combination with  
emtricitabine / tenofovir in the context of HIV post-exposure prophylaxis. 
The concomitant administration of HIV protease inhibitors is explicitly contra-indicated in the product 
information of quetiapine-containing medicinal products due to the risk of increased quetiapine 
exposure. In contrast, the same contraindication is not reported in the product information of 
lopinavir/ritonavir-containing medicines although it is stated that medicinal products highly dependent 
on cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are 
associated with serious and/or life threatening events should not be co-administered with quetiapine. 
Such drug-drug interaction is considered to be due to an increased exposure to quetiapine caused by 
inhibition of CYP3A4 by lopinavir and ritonavir. 
The PRAC agreed that information on the interaction and a contraindication should be included in the 
product information for lopinavir/ritonavir-containing products, but should also be introduced in the 
product information of all other protease inhibitor-containing medicines. 
Summary of the recommendations adopted by the PRAC in July 2013 
•  The MAH for Kaletra (lopinavir / ritonavir) should submit to the EMA, within 30 days, a variation with 
a proposal for amending the product information6 to include a contraindication for the concomitant 
use of quetiapine. 
•  The MAHs of all other protease inhibitor-containing medicinal products (ATC code J05AE) should also 
introduce a contraindication in the product information for these medicines, by appropriate 
procedures, within 30 days.  
A standard wording was agreed by the PRAC for the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and 
the Patient Leaflet (PL) of the protease inhibitor-containing medicinal products (ATC code J05AE). The 
MAH proposed an alternative wording for implementation in the Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SmPC) for tipranavir and submitted the present application. 
The PRAC recommendations were endorsed by the CHMP on 25 July 2013. 
2.2.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the following changes to the Product Information (PI), to which the CHMP agreed: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/678120/2013 
Page 3/5 
  
  
SmPC 
The MAH proposed to revise and enrich the statements recommended by PRAC in two sections of the 
SmPC,  4.3  Contraindications  and  4.5  Interactions  with  other  medicinal  product  and  other  forms  of 
interactions: 
In  section  4.3  some  neuroleptic  agents  were  already  listed  to  be  contraindicated.  Neuroleptics  are 
synonymously  used  for  antipsychotics.  Since  the  standard  term  is  ‘antipsychotics’  according  to  the 
WHO  ATC/DDD  index  (reference),  the  MAH  suggested  replacing  the  term  ‘neuroleptics’  by 
‘antipsychotics’. Quetiapine will be therefore listed together with the other antipsychotics. 
For clarity and consistency and to heighten the reader’s awareness, the MAH suggested the following 
additional  changes  and  amendments  to  section  4.3  Contraindications.  These  additional  changes  were 
accepted by the CHMP. 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
Information on parenteral midazolam administration is correctly included in section 4.5 and 
should be deleted in the contraindication section ‘For caution on parenterally administered 
midazolam see section 4.5’ 
The cross reference from the contraindication section to warnings and precautions ‘(see section 
4.5)’ has been moved to the end of the listing of the active substances, as it applies to all listed 
substances. 
The wording ‘such as’ has been included in front of the listed active substances in parentheses, 
since the listed ones are only examples. 
Section 4.5 “Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction” 
In Section 4.5 “Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction”, the 
aforementioned amendment was adapted to include the quetiapine information in the pre-existing drug-
drug interaction information on ‘neuroleptics’ which has been replaced by the term ‘antipsychotics’ due 
to above mentioned reason. In order to comply with the PRAC’s recommendation, the MAH suggested 
adding ‘including coma’ after ‘serious and/or life-threatening events’, to specifically show that the side 
effects of overdose for all above listed antipsychotics may include coma. 
PL 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/678120/2013 
Page 4/5 
 
 
  
  
The wording implemented in the PL is that proposed by the PRAC and adopted by the CHMP. 
- quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder) 
In  addition,  the  list  of  local  representatives  in  the  PL  has  been  revised  to  add  contact  details  for  the 
representative of Croatia. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Following assessment of a signal of an interaction between lopinavir/ritonavir and quetiapine by the 
PRAC, it was concluded that the MAHs of all other protease inhibitor-containing medicinal products (ATC 
code J05AE) should introduce a contraindication of use with quetiapine in the product information for 
these medicines. Indeed, the concomitant administration of HIV protease inhibitors is explicitly contra-
indicated in the product information of quetiapine-containing medicinal products due to the risk of 
increased quetiapine exposure. In contrast, the same contraindication is not reported in the product 
information for the protease inhibitor-containing medicinal products (ATC code J05AE). In line with this 
request, the MAH for tipranavir submitted the present application. The SmPC changes proposed by the 
MAH were deemed acceptable to the CHMP since the content remains in line with the PRAC original 
conclusions. The wording implemented in the PL is that proposed by the PRAC and adopted by the 
CHMP. 
The benefit / risk balance for this product remains positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.z 
C.I.z - Changes (Safety/Efficacy) of Human and Veterinary Medicinal 
II 
Products - Other variation 
Update of sections 4.3 and 4.5 of the SmPC to include information regarding quetiapine following a 
class labelling for all HIV protease inhibitors. The PL was updated accordingly.  
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to add Croatia to the list of local representatives in the 
Package Leaflet.  
Furthermore, minor linguistic changes (linguistic corrections) were introduced to the German/Austrian, 
Italian and Spanish product information. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/678120/2013 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
  
  
