European Medicines Agency 
London, 23 April 2009 
EMEA/CHMP/259943/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
APTIVUS 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Tipranavir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000631/X/30 
Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH):  
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu      http://www.emea.europa.eu  
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Problem statement 
In  younger  children,  the  use  of  liquid  formulations  may  be  necessary  since  they  may  be  unable  to 
swallow capsules or may need smaller doses than adults. There is also a need for liquid formulations 
in adults and older children, who cannot swallow solid formulations. Common complications of HIV 
infection,  such  as  oesophageal  or  oral  candidiasis  or  herpes  simplex,  can  result  in  severe  pain  and 
make swallowing solids impossible.  For these reasons, the MAH undertook the clinical development 
of Aptivus oral solution (OS), at the beginning of 2003. 
As  part  of  the  initial  marketing  authorisation  application  (MAA)  for  Aptivus  submitted  on 
3 November 2004,  the  company  submitted  bioavailability  (BA)  data  on  the  oral  solution  and  the 
capsules (Study 1182.45). Following review of the data, the CHMP concluded that the bioequivalence 
(BE)  between  the  capsule  and  oral  solution  was  not  demonstrated.    There  was  a  need  to  substantiate  the 
interchangeability  of  the  capsule  and  the  oral  solution  to  enable  proper  dosing  recommendations  and  to 
ensure adequate efficacy and safety of the OS before a MA for this pharmaceutical form could be granted. 
On 1 July 2005, the MAH withdrew the application for the OS. A marketing authorisation was granted 
only for TPV capsules on 25 October 2005. 
In November 2006, the MAH submitted the additional relative BA and pharmacokinetic (PK) data on 
the  OS  requested  by  the  CHMP  (Study  1182.100,  Follow-Up  Measure  FUM  022).  These  data  were 
assessed by the CHMP in March 2007. The MAH submitted responses to the CHMP conclusions in 
October 2007.  
In  support  of  the  present  Annex  II  application,  the  MAH  has  provided  data  on  the  quality  and  the 
relative BA of the OS. 
About the product  
TPV  is  a  non-peptidic  protease  inhibitor  (PI)  that  has  been  developed  for  treatment-experienced 
patients who have HIV-1 strains with PI resistance associated mutations. 
On  25  October  2005,  Aptivus  was  authorised  in  the  EU  under  exceptional  circumstances  for 
combination  antiretroviral treatment  of  HIV-1  infected  adult  patients  who  are  treatment-experienced 
and infected with HIV-1 strains resistant to more than one PI. The recommended dose is 500 mg TPV, 
co-administered with 200 mg ritonavir (RTV, if used as booster =/r), twice daily (b.i.d.). In February 
2008,  following  the  2nd annual  reassessment,  the  CHMP  recommended  that  the  exceptional 
circumstances be lifted since all Specific Obligations had been fulfilled. Aptivus is currently available 
as 250 mg soft gelatin capsules (120 capsules in HDPE bottles).  
The  MAH  has  now  submitted  an  application  for  an  extension  to  the  MA  for  Aptivus  to  add  a  new 
pharmaceutical form i.e. a 100 mg/ml oral solution. The medicinal product is packaged in a 100 ml 
amber glass bottle with a plastic child resistant closure. The bottle is fitted with a plastic adapter for 
use with the 5 ml oral dispenser (syringe) supplied separately in the package. 
This new pharmaceutical form is intended for patients from 2 years of age. In parallel, the MAH has 
applied  for  an  extension  of  the  indication  for  the  currently  approved  250  mg  capsules  to  include 
paediatric  patients  aged  2  years  and  older.  This  application  is  assessed  within  procedure 
EMEA/H/C/631/II/29. 
The proposed therapeutic indication for Aptivus oral solution is: “Aptivus, co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, is indicated for combination antiretroviral treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-
treated patients 2 years of age or older with virus resistant to multiple protease inhibitors.”  
The  proposed  recommended  dose  for  children  (2-18  years),  based  on  body  surface  area  (BSA)  is 
375mg/m2 TPV co-administered with 150 mg/m2 RTV, b.i.d. The paediatric dose should not exceed 
the adult dose. TPV oral solution co-administered with low dose oral solution RTV should be taken 
with food, in line with the approved dosing recommendations for TPV capsules. 
2/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance/Scientific Advice 
The  developed  TPV  OS  was  first  intended  for  younger  children  who  are  unable  to  swallow  the 
capsules and who need dose adjustment (smaller dose than adults). The OS is also intended for adults 
and older children unable to swallow the capsules. 
As mentioned above, the BA of TPV OS was evaluated in two BE studies: 
- 
- 
a Phase I study (1182.45) to assess the relative BA of TPV from both capsule and OS formulations 
at 500 mg b.i.d., each co-administered with RTV 200 mg b.i.d (TPV/r 500/200).   
a Phase I study (1182.100) to assess the relative BA of TPV/r 500 mg/200 mg at steady state when 
TPV and RTV are administered as OS versus capsules in the fed and fasted state. 
The  design  of  the  Study  1182.100  was  not  in  line  with  the  CHMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  the 
Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as detailed below. 
No formal scientific advice was given by the CHMP for Aptivus Oral Solution. 
General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP 
GMP compliance 
Roxane  Laboratories,  Wilson  Road  Columbus,  Ohio,  USA  will  be  in  charge  of  the  manufacture, 
packaging  and  QC  testing  of  the  Oral  solution.  Roxane  Laboratories,  Oak  Street,  Columbus,  Ohio, 
USA is proposed as back up site for the QC testing. Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co KG, 
Ingelheim  am  Rhein,  Germany  will  be  responsible  for  batch  release  in  the  EEA.  A  copy  of  the 
manufacturing authorisation has been provided for the site located in the EU. The manufacturing site 
Boehringer  Ingelheim  Roxane  Inc.,  Wilson  Road,  Columbus  was  inspected  in  March,  2007  by  the 
German competent authority with respect to GMP compliance. The inspection report states a positive 
outcome of the inspection. 
GLP compliance 
Supportive  non  clinical  data  are  derived  from  the  dossier  related  to  Aptivus  250  mg  soft  capsule, 
where GLP status of the studies was considered adequate to allow assessment of the pivotal studies. 
GCP compliance 
The MAH  states  that the studies  relevant  to this  application  were conducted  in accordance  with  the 
principles of GCP. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Aptivus contains tipranavir as the active substance and it is presented in the form of 100 mg/ml oral 
solution.  It  is  yellow,  viscous  clear  liquid.  Other  ingredients  present  in  the  formulation  include 
macrogol  400,  propylene  glycol,  mono/diglycerides  of  caprylic/capric  acid,  vitamin  E  polyethylene 
glycol succinate, ascorbic acid, purified water, sucralose and flavouring agents buttermint and butter 
toffee. 
The product is packed in glass amber bottle with two-piece child-resistant closure and is supplied with 
a clear polypropylene (PP) 5 ml graduated dispensing syringe, PP syringe cap and clear low-density 
polyethylene (LDPE) bottle-syringe adapter. 
Drug substance 
The same drug substance that has been approved for Aptivus 250 mg soft capsules has been used for 
development of the new oral solution pharmaceutical form, and is proposed to be used in commercial 
batches of tipranavir oral solution.  
3/22 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  development  program  was  to  formulate  an  oral  solution  for  paediatric  and  adult 
patients who cannot swallow capsules. 
Due to the poor water solubility of tipranavir (active substance) and due to the poor in vivo exposure 
of conventional tipranavir solid prototype formulations the development of an aqueous solution or a 
suspension was precluded. Therefore, a self-emulsifying drug delivery system (SEDDS) formulation, 
in which the drug substance is already dissolved, was chosen to overcome the dissolution rate limited 
absorption of tipranavir. 
The following reasons have been considered during the development of the formulation:  
- 
liquid dosage form was needed for paediatric and adult patients who have difficulty swallowing 
tipranavir capsules 250 mg. A suspension had been precluded due to the poor in vivo exposure of 
solid prototype formulations. 
emulsifier was needed to overcome the dissolution rate limited absorption of the drug substance in 
the aqueous environment of the gastrointestinal tract. 
- 
All  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  widely  used  in  commercial  pharmaceutical  dosage  forms 
and/or  as  food  additives.  The  oral  solution  is  a  SEDDS,  in  which  tipranavir  free  acid  form  is 
solubilised.  The  selection  of  the  excipients  was  based  on  the  results  from  the  formulation 
development. 
A  SEDDS  formulation  allows  a  high  drug  load  in  the  dosage  form,  which  is  necessary  as  the  daily 
dose is proposed to be up to 1000 mg/day. 
The  chosen  oral  formulation  includes  a  lipid  phase,  a  surfactant/emulsifier  and  other  appropriate 
components  to  achieve  satisfactory  drug  solubility,  dispersibility,  bioavailability  and  physical  and 
chemical stability. 
Macrogol  400  (polyethylene  glycol  400)  and  propylene  glycol  were  chosen  as  co-solvents  in  the 
SEDDS  formulation  due  to  the  high  solubility  of  tipranavir  in  both  excipients.  Capmul  MCM  was 
selected  as  the  lipid  phase  since the  mono/diglycerides  exhibit better  performance  than triglycerides 
(Miglyol).  
Vitamin E TPGS (D-alpha-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate) was selected as surfactant 
on  the  basis  of  an  initial  screening  study  and  was  found  to  produce  a  self-emulsifying  system  at  a 
lower level than the other surfactants. 
Due  to  the  known  potential  to  oxidative  decomposition  of  the  drug  substance  an  antioxidant  was 
required in the formulation. Ascorbic acid has been chosen as the most effective with respect to the 
chemical  stability  of  tipranavir  when  compared  with  other  antioxidants  (based  on  an  antioxidant 
screening  study  in  which  different  antioxidants  were  compared).  Limits  set  at  release  and  shelf-life 
take  into  account  the  observed  decrease  upon  time  and  the  minimum  acceptable  level  for  the 
antioxidant. 
Based on the results of placebo formulations study evaluating taste masking properties and sweetening 
power, sucralose was selected as the preferred sweetener among other sweeteners, and Buttermint and 
Butter Toffee were selected as flavouring agents among other flavouring agents. 
A dispersion test has been used as a development tool during formulation development to assess the 
excipient effect on the dispersion behaviour of this formulation. Experimental data were provided with 
respect to identification of optimal excipients ratios and robustness of the formulation and no changes 
were observed during the long term and accelerated stability studies.  
4/22 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Besides some transient solvates which mostly desolvate under the process drying conditions, there are 
two polymorphic forms of tipranavir, Form I and II. Only Form I has been used during development 
work and is the proposed commercial form of the drug substance. The physicochemical properties of 
both forms are comparable. Nevertheless, polymorphism is not regarded relevant, since tipranavir is 
completely dissolved in the oral solution. Neither Form I nor Form II will precipitate from the solution 
during  storage  since  their  solubility  is  significantly  higher  than  the  100  mg/ml  formulation 
concentration.  
The  physical  stability  is  limited  by  a  drug  substance-excipient  interaction  between  tipranavir  and 
Capmul MCM  leading  to  the  formation  of  a  solvate  of  tipranavir  with  1,3-dioctanoylglycerol  (1,3-
DOG solvate). This 1,3-DOG solvate is less soluble in the solution formulation than tipranavir itself. 
The solvate appears as a crystalline precipitate (at the bottom of the bottle), and was first observed in 
development samples stored under low temperature conditions (4°C and 15ºC). Results from stability 
studies  performed  on  development  batches  stored  at  4°C  and  15°C  have  shown  that  the  rate  of 
formation of the 1,3-DOG solvate is accelerated at low temperatures. Therefore the storage statement 
for  the  product  specifically  warns  against  storing  the  product  at  either  refrigerated  or  freezing 
conditions, or below 15°C.  Once formed, the 1,3- DOG solvate crystals cannot be re-dissolved simply 
by shaking. However, small amounts of the solvate can be re-dissolved by warming to approximately 
60ºC with no loss in product potency or increase in degradation products.  
Due to the occurrence of the tipranavir 1,3-DOG solvate during storage and missing information about 
the toxicological relevance of this precipitate, additional data on the tipranavir 1,3-DOG solvate was 
necessary in order to evaluate the stability of the drug product, its shelf-life, storage warnings and in-
use shelf life. The applicant provided structural data for the tipranavir 1,3-DOG solvate showing that it 
is  a  non-covalent  association  of  tipranavir  and  1,3-DOG  in  a  molecular  ration  4:1.  Therefore,  the 
toxicity  of  the  solvate  will  be  comparable  to  that  of  tipranavir  and  1,3-dioctanoylglycerol  taken 
separately. As the toxicity of the solvate was not a concern, and since it does not significantly affect 
tipranavir assay over the shelf life of the product, the issue was considered solved. 
In  addition  the  control  of  the  physical  quality  of  the  solution  is  performed  at  release  by  means  of 
microscopic  test  and  at  end  of  shelf-life  by  means  of  visual  test.  Moreover  patients  are  instructed 
(section 6.6 of the SPC) to inspect the bottle and to return the product for replacement if there is more 
than a paper-thin layer of crystals in the bottle or any uncertainty as to the amount observed. Warming 
the  product  is  not  recommended  to  dissolve  the  crystalline  precipitate  as  this  is  not  considered 
necessary under the above described control scheme. 
The formulation composition of the tipranavir 100 mg/ml oral solution used in the clinical batches is 
identical to the proposed commercial product. 
During  the  development  program  the  accuracy  and  precision  of  the  dosing  syringe  (5  ml)  was 
investigated  over  a  range  from  0.8  ml  to  5 ml,  corresponding  to  four  different  dose  volumes  of 
solution that mimic potential dosing plans for patients (0.8 ml, 1.2 ml, 2.5 ml and 5 ml). Variability 
among syringes was determined by using additional three syringes to dispense the same four volumes 
(one  syringe  per  dose  volume).  The  experimental  data  demonstrate  the  repeatability,  intermediate 
precision and accuracy of the dose volumes delivered using the 5 ml dosing syringe. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  of  tipranavir  100  mg/ml  oral  solution  follows  standard  manufacturing 
procedures for liquid solution products. The manufacturing process includes mixing steps of tipranavir 
drug substance and excipients to form a clear bulk solution and to filter the bulk solution to remove 
extraneous particles. Optimisation studies were performed to select the optimal process parameters to 
ensure complete dissolution. The results of process evaluation studies performed at industrial scale at 
the  commercial  manufacturing  site  have  been  provided,  including  the  process  changes  made  during 
technology transfer to the commercial site.  
5/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The manufacturing process has been satisfactorily validated. All results met the validation acceptance 
criteria. The in process controls are adequate for this oral solution presentation. 
The batch analysis data on 3 consecutive full-scale batches show that this pharmaceutical form can be 
manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the  agreed  finished  product  specification,  which  is  suitable 
for control of this oral preparation 
• 
Control of excipients 
With  the  exception  of  Mono/Diglycerides  of  Caprylic/Capric  Acid  (Capmul  MCM)  and  the  two 
flavours (Buttermint and Butter Toffee) the inactive ingredients are compendial excipients controlled 
according  to  the  requirements  of  the  current  Ph Eur  monographs.  Sucralose  is  an  excipient  not 
described in the Ph Eur or in any pharmacopoeia of a Member State. It is controlled according to the 
requirement  of  the  NF.  For  control  of  Capmul  MCM  in  house  specification  based  on  the  USP 
compendial  procedures  and  official  methods  from  the  American  Oil  Chemist’s  Society  (AOCS)  are 
used.  The  two  flavours  (Buttermint  and  Butter  Toffee)  comply  with  legal  requirements  for  food 
flavourings and are controlled by appropriate in-house specifications. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  description,  identification  (HPLC, 
UV),  assay  of  the  active  substance  (HPLC),  assay  of  ascorbic  acid  (HPLC),  degradation  products 
(HPLC), examination for tipranavir: 1,3-dioctanoylglycerol solvate (microscopy and visual), microbial 
limits  and  efficacy of  antimicrobial preservation.  Since  the  product  has  been  shown  to  have  inherent 
antimicrobial properties, testing for efficacy of antimicrobial preservation will only be performed for 
stability testing of the first three production batches. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis data on 13 batches confirm satisfactory uniformity in the product at release. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  from  formal  stability  studies  (one  supportive  batch,  three  primary 
stability batches, four production batches), stress studies (thermal cycling, photostability) and from in-
use stability studies. 
Results  for  the  supportive  stability  study  were  available  for  up  to  24  months  storage  at  long-term 
condition (25°C/60%RH), 12 months storage at intermediate conditions (30°C/70%RH) and 6 months 
storage at accelerated (40°C/75%RH) conditions. 
Primary batches were stored in the “upright” position and in the “on-the-side” position. Results for the 
primary  stability  study  were  available  at  the  long-term  condition  up  to  36  months  storage  in  the 
“upright” position and 18 months storage in the “on-the-side position”. Results were also available for 
both positions at the intermediate condition up to 12 months storage, and at the accelerated condition 
up to 6 months storage. 
Production scale batches were studied in the on-side orientation and three of them were stored in both 
upright and on-side orientations. Results were available up to 24 months at 25°C/60%RH, 12 months 
at 30°C/70%RH, and 6 months at 40°C/75%RH in both upright and on-side orientations. 
Photostability testing was conducted in accordance with the current guideline. Drug product packaged 
in  both  clear  quartz  bottles  and  in  the  proposed  commercial  amber  glass  bottles  as  well  as  two 
similarly packaged light-protected samples (to serve as dark controls) were concomitantly subjected to 
light exposure. Results showed that the drug substance is not light sensitive. However, the levels of 
6/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ascorbic acid decreased during the study. Therefore, an amber glass bottle has been chosen to protect 
from light and to minimize the oxidative degradation of ascorbic acid and Vitamin E TPGS. 
Thermal  cycling  stability  testing  was  performed  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  extremes  of  high  and  low 
temperatures that may be encountered during shipping and handling of the drug product. Two different 
cycles  were  carried  out:  freeze-thaw  (between  –20°C  and  40°C/75%  RH)  and  refrigerate-warm 
(between 4°C and 40°C/75% RH). Cycling conditions showed that that no additional precipitation will 
occur. 
In addition in-use stability studies were also performed. Tipranavir is chemically stable during the in-
use period. Assay results did not vary throughout the study and degradation products were detected at 
levels  well  below  the  reporting  threshold.  In-use  antimicrobial  preservative  effectiveness  and 
microbial limit tests were performed during the study. Microbial limit testing of samples met Ph Eur 
requirements.  The  Ph Eur  compendial  preservative  effectiveness  tests  were  supplemented  with  a 
simulated  in-use  test  that  lasted  for  the  duration  of  the  intended  in-use  shelf  life.  Microbiological 
effectiveness of the preservative system was demonstrated in this study.   
Based on available results from stability studies, an expiration period as stated in the SPC, has been 
approved. In addition The following storage statements “Do not store below 15°C, do not refrigerate 
or  freeze”  have  been  proposed  because  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  low  temperatures  accelerate 
tipranavir 1,3-DOG crystals formation. 
An in-use storage period of 60 days is recommended after first opening of the bottle. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  manufacture  and  control  is  essentially  the  same  as  that  reviewed  for  Aptivus 
250 mg soft capsules. 
The  development  of  the  formulation  and  manufacturing  process  for  the  finished  product  has  been 
performed  with  a  view  to  the  main  variables  that  could  compromise  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the 
product solubility and stability of the active substance in the oral solution. The information presented 
indicates  that  the  product  is  manufactured  and  controlled  in  a  consistent  way,  and  should  perform 
consistently in the clinic, from batch to batch. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
No module 4 was submitted in this application since no new pre-clinical study had been performed. 
However,  the  MAH  submitted  a  non-clinical  overview  related  to  the  Aptivus  oral  solution  in  the 
setting of Aptivus II/29 application. 
In order to support this line extension and the paediatric indication, the MAH provided: 
o  a discussion on the safety of use of TPV in the children 2 years of age and older, based on 
non clinical data derived from the MAA of TPV 250 mg capsules, 
o  a discussion on potential effects on coagulation, derived from non clinical studies performed 
after MA was granted, 
o  an  environmental  risk  assessment  (ERA),  taking  into  consideration  a  possible  significant 
increase of environmental exposure to the drug substance. 
Review of the nonclinical data supporting the use of TPV oral solution in paediatric patients 
At the time of initial MAA, a complete toxicological programme was performed with TPV. It included 
single dose studies (mice, rats and dogs), repeated dose studies (TPV alone in mice, rats and dogs and 
TPV + RTV in rats and dogs), genotoxicity and reproductive and developmental toxicity studies (rats 
and rabbits). Effects of TPV in repeat-dose toxicity studies with TPV were observed primarily in the 
liver, the gastrointestinal tract, the coagulation system and the testes. Liver was a target organ of TPV 
in  all  species  tested:  rats,  mice  and  dogs.  Hepatic  effects  of  TPV  common  to  all  species  included 
7/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased  liver  weights  and  hepatocellular  hypertrophy.  Testicular  effects  consisted  of  decreased 
weights and bilateral seminiferous tubule degeneration and/or atrophy observed in a 26-week TPV/r 
study  in  rats  at  a  dose  level  of  1200/320  mg/kg/day  TPV/r  and  in  the  39-week  study  in  dogs  after 
administration  of  320  mg/kg/day  TPV  alone.  Further  review  of  these  findings  led  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  testicular  effects  were  not  attributable  to  TPV.  Lymphocytolysis  was  also  observed.  An 
immunotoxicity study has been conducted in mice treated for 28 days to TPV/r the highest dose being 
300/80  mg/kg.  TPV/r  had  no  effect  on  the  antibody  response  following  immunisation  with  a  T-cell 
dependent antigen. 
When  assessing  the  need  for  additional  toxicity  studies  in  juvenile  animals,  differences  between 
children  and  adults  in  the  structure  and  function  of  organ  systems  resulting  from  growth  and 
development  should  be  considered  to  determine  if  the  standard  battery  of  toxicology  studies  is 
sufficient.  Several  organ  systems  are  not  of  concern in  children  aged  2  years  and  older  due to  their 
maturation at an earlier time point (e.g. pulmonary and renal systems), or the lack of effects on these 
systems in the standard battery of repeat dose toxicology studies (e.g. skeletal system). Although the 
nervous  system  continues  to  develop  until  puberty,  safety  pharmacology  studies  and  repeated  dose 
toxicity  studies  did  not  raise  any  safety  concern  related  to  nervous  central  system  in  adults,  and 
therefore this organ system is not considered to be potentially affected in the juvenile population.  
Safety concerns pertaining to the immune and reproductive systems could be expected in the juvenile 
population.  However,  additional  data  provided  during  the  initial  MAA  evaluation  were  reassuring. 
Finally,  since  liver  is  in  a  mature  state  in  children  aged  2  years,  no  difference  is  expected  in 
hepatotoxicity  in  children  compared  to  adults.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  the  “Guideline  on  the 
need  for  non-clinical  testing  in  juvenile  animals  of  pharmaceuticals  for  paediatric  indications” 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/169215/2005), the CHMP agreed that there was no need to perform any further 
study in juvenile animals.  
Discussion on potential effects on coagulation, derived from non clinical studies performed after 
MA was granted 
Since the initial MAA, two investigative studies in male rats were performed to evaluate the effects of 
TPV  on  the  coagulation  cascade  and  to  determine  if  vitamin  E-TPGS,  an  esterified  derivative  of 
vitamin E present in TPV oral solution, would modulate the changes induced by TPV. Bleeding events 
were  observed,  associated  with  prolonged  prothrombin  time  (PT),  activated  partial  thromboplastin 
time  (aPTT)  and  a  decrease  in  some  vitamin  K  dependent  factors.  Coadministration  of  TPV  with 
vitamin E-TPGS resulted in an exacerbation of the anticoagulant effects of TPV, specifically causing 
increases  in  PT,  aPTT,  and  Thrombotest  levels  and  decreases  in  vitamin  K  dependent  factors.  This 
information was included in the SPC (Variation II/23 – Commission Decision on 7 July 2008) and is 
included in the SPC for Aptivus oral solution. 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
The  CHMP  endorsed  the  MAH’s  position  who  considered  that  an  ERA  was  not  required  for  this 
extension application, taking the following into consideration: 
-  Some adults are expected to shift their treatment from capsules to OS. In this case no increase in 
the use of TPV applies. 
-  Children are a potential additional patient group. However, only few children are expected to be 
treated  with  TPV  OS,  since  TPV  capsules  and  OS  are  indicated  for  patients  who  are  highly 
treatment experienced.  
Thus, no significant increase of environmental exposure to TPV is expected by the use of the OS. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
TPV  has  undergone  an  extensive  nonclinical  toxicity  testing  program  in  multiple  laboratory  animal 
species  to  support  the  administration  to  adults  and  paediatric  patients.    There  were  no  clinically 
relevant effects of TPV, or TPV co-administered with RTV on any of the organ systems considered to 
be  of special  concern in  relation to juveniles (nervous,  reproductive,  pulmonary,  renal, skeletal,  and 
immune  systems).  Therefore,  the  data  generated  in  the  comprehensive  set  of  nonclinical  toxicology 
studies supports the administration to paediatric patients. 
8/22 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics – Bioequivalence in adults 
In support of this line extension application, the MAH referred to two studies performed to assess the 
relative BA of TPV oral solution compared to TPV capsules:  
-  Study 1182.45, submitted within the original MAA for Aptivus 
-  Study 1182.100, submitted in the framework of FUM 022 
Both studies, performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH, were previously assessed 
by the CHMP. They are presented and discussed hereafter. 
Study 1182.45 
This  was  an  open-label,  randomised,  single-dose,  3-period  crossover  study  with  30  healthy  adult 
volunteers  (18  males/12  females),  who  were  given  TPV  500  mg  SEDDS  capsules  oral  fasted  (A); 
TPV 500 mg Liquid solution oral fasted (B) and TPV 500 Liquid solution oral fed (C) (each together 
with the commercially available RTV formulations, Norvir capsules or oral solution at a dose of 200 
mg).  Relative  BA  of  TPV/r  500/200  mg  capsules  was  determined  in  the  fasted  state  and  TPV/r 
500/200 mg oral liquid formulations in the fasted and fed (high-fat breakfast) state. A wash-out phase 
of  7  days  was  applied.  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  6  treatment  sequences;  all  30  subjects 
completed the study. 
Blood  samples  were  collected  for  72  hours  and  urine  samples  for  24  hours  post-dose.  Plasma 
concentrations were quantified by means of the validated bioanalytical method. Beside PK evaluations 
safety and tolerability were monitored. The statistical model used for the analysis of AUCinf and Cmax 
was  an  ANOVA  (analysis of  variance)  model  on  the logarithmic  scale. This  model  included effects 
accounting for the following sources of variation: “sequence”, “subject within sequence”, “period” and 
“treatment”. A two-sided 90% confidence interval was calculated.  
Results 
The  results  of  the  study  are  depicted  in  the  following  tables;  figures  indicating  bioinequivalence 
according to the criteria detailed in the “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and 
Bioequivalence” are highlighted in bold. 
Table 1: Results for TPV (fasted oral solution vs fasted capsule) 
Test 
ANOVA 
Ratio 
Standard 
CI 90% 
Parameters 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Table 2: Results (fed oral solution vs fasted capsules) 
Results 
sequence effect 
150% 
137% 
1.40 - 1.60 
1.30 - 1.43 
Test 
ANOVA 
Ratio 
Standard 
CI 90% 
Parameters 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Results 
period and sequence effect 
107% 
130% 
1.00 - 1.14 
1.23 - 1.36 
9/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Results (fed oral solution vs fasted oral solution) 
Test 
ANOVA 
Ratio 
Standard 
CI 90% 
Parameters 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Cmax 
AUC 0-inf 
Results 
period and sequence effect 
71% 
95% 
0.67 - 0.76 
0.90 - 1.00 
In the fasted state, BE could not be shown between the capsule and the OS: the OS was significantly 
supra-bioavailable (AUC: +37%;  Cmax: +50%).  
The OS given in fed state was supra-bioavailable (by 30% for AUC and 7% for Cmax) in relation to the 
capsule given in fasted state.  
From  the  data  presented  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  BE  of  capsule  and  oral  solution  was  not 
demonstrated.  Therefore,  no  appropriate  dosing  recommendation  could  be  given.  Based  on  the  PK 
data  derived  from  the  study  performed  it  could  only  be  concluded  that  a  decrease  in  the  dosing 
regimen for the OS will likely be required to obtain TPV plasma concentrations equivalent to those 
obtained  with  the capsules.  The relative  BA  between OS  with food  and  capsules  with  food  was  not 
performed although the current SPC mentions that TPV capsules should be taken with food. 
Study 1182.100 
Design 
This  was  an  open  label,  one-sequence,  non-randomised,  cross-over  study  evaluating  the  relative 
bioavailability of the TPV/r OS to the capsule formulation at steady-state with both treatments under 
fasted  and  fed  conditions  in  35  healthy  male  (n=17)  and  female  adult  volunteers,  32  of  which 
completed  the  study  and  were  included  in  statistical  evaluations.  Volunteers  who  had  successfully 
participated in previous studies tolerating TPV were selected, where possible. A subject enrolled in the 
study  was  supposed  to  receive  21  doses  (q12h)  TPV/r  capsules  followed  by  8  doses  (q12h)  oral 
solution (see Figure 1).  
Figure 1: Design of study BI 1182.100 
10/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the study design 
The CHMP highlighted that the cross-over of the study was done in a non-randomised way therefore 
violating  one  of the  main prerequisites  of  a state-of-the-art  BE  testing  and  making  the  period  effect 
non-assessable.  The  results  of  the  non-randomised  trial  clearly  indicate  differences  between 
formulations but it is not possible to conclude that the observed differences are irrelevant, because it 
could be, that a “negative” period effect has actually already diminished the true difference between 
formulations  to  the  observed  degree  (i.e.  the  true  difference  can  be  even  larger).  Accordingly,  the 
study  results  are  considered  neither  reliable  nor  interpretable.  The  absence  of  wash-out  period  was 
considered inappropriate since the effect of interfering factors on the measured plasma concentration 
could not be excluded.  
According  to  the  MAH,  this  study  design  was  preferred  mainly  because  the  oral  solution  is 
significantly  less  palatable  than  the  capsule  formulation.  This  justification  was  not  endorsed  by  the 
CHMP  since  the  oral  solution  has  been  primarily  developed  for  paediatric  patients  and,  in  general, 
patients who will receive this formulation are likely to be more sensitive to palatability than healthy 
volunteers.  The CHMP also noted that recruiting mainly volunteers who tolerated TPV in previous 
studies preclude a reliable safety and tolerability evaluation by introducing a bias. 
Results 
Pre-dose  and  11  post-dose  blood  samples  were  obtained  within  the  12  h  dosing  interval.  Pair  wise 
comparisons  of  TPV  (and  RTV)  after  each  mode  of  administration  were  performed  with  90% 
confidence intervals derived from the logarithmic scale. The primary comparison was AUC0-12h of the 
TPV/r capsules and the oral solution both administered in the fed state. Results are presented in the 
following tables; figures indicating bioinequivalence are highlighted in bold. No comparison of PK in 
the fasted state was performed in the study. 
Table 4:  Summary of geometric mean ratios and 90%-confidence intervals for TPV/r 500/200 
mg oral solution administered with and without food 
PK parameter 
Geometric mean ratio (%) 
TPV/r solution fasted versus 
fed 
90 % confidence interval 
TPV  
Cp12h 
Cmax 
AUC0-12h 
RTV  
Cp12h 
Cmax 
AUC0-12h 
95.60 
120.74 
102.91 
89.84 
182.36 
135.43 
90 – 102 % 
116 – 126 % 
100 – 106 % 
81 – 100 % 
165 – 201 % 
125 – 147 % 
Table 5:  Summary of geometric mean ratios and 90%-confidence intervals for TPV/r 500/200 
mg capsules administered with and without food 
PK parameter 
Geometric mean ratio (%) 
TPV/r capsules fasted versus 
fed 
90 % confidence interval 
TPV  
Cp12h 
Cmax 
AUC0-12h 
RTV  
Cp12h 
Cmax 
AUC0-12h 
101.50 
101.64 
99.17 
83.11 
126.55 
103.88 
11/22 
84 – 123 % 
91 – 114 % 
88 – 112 % 
67 – 103 % 
95 – 168 % 
79 – 134 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Summary of geometric mean ratios and 90%-confidence intervals for TPV/r 500/200 
mg capsules and solutions administered with food 
PK parameter 
Geometric mean ratio (%) 
TPV/r  fed conditions  
oral solution versus capsule 
90 % confidence interval 
TPV  
Cp12h 
Cmax 
AUC0-12h 
RTV  
Cp12h 
Cmax 
AUC0-12h 
128.26 
114.33 
122.64 
71.77 
86.77 
96.11 
110 – 150 % 
103 – 126 % 
111 - 135 % 
60 – 86 % 
70 – 107 % 
79 – 118 % 
Study 1182.100 showed a supra-bioavailability of TPV OS compared to the capsule formulation in the 
fed state.  
This supra-bioavailability was however significantly less noticeable than observed in Study 1182.45 in 
the  fasted  state  (AUC:  +23%  versus  +37%  and  Cmax:  +14%  versus  +50%).  When  taking  into 
consideration  the  upper  limit  of  the  confidence  interval  for  AUC  (i.e.  +35%)  and  the  fact  that 
appropriate  food intake  may  be  limited  in  some  patients, these findings  may  have  a  clinical  impact. 
For the OS administered with food, TPV Cmax was decreased by approximately 20% compared to the 
fasted state, whereas AUC was not altered. No significant food effect was observed in this study for 
the capsule formulation.  
With regard to RTV, an important food effect was observed with the OS, the BA being significantly 
increased  in  the  fasted  state  (ratio  fasted/fed:  Cmax:  182  %;  AUC:  135  %).  A  similar  trend  was 
observed  for  the  capsule  formulation  though  being  less  significant.  These  findings  were  considered 
conflicting by the CHMP  given that concomitant food intake is recommended for the RTV OS (see 
Norvir  SPC).  Besides,  despite  the  decrease  in  RTV  exposure,  TPV  exposure  appeared  enhanced. 
These results  may  question  the  appropriateness  of  the TPV/r  ratio for  the  oral solution  although  the 
TPV/r ratio proposed for paediatrics is similar as the one previously approved for adults.  
Discussion on PK in adults 
Both  Study  1182.45  and  Study  1182.100  failed  to  demonstrate  BE  between  the  OS  and  the  capsule 
formulation. Rather, they showed that the OS is significantly supra-bioavailable when compared to the 
capsule  formulation.  While  this  effect  was  less  pronounced  in  the latter  study  that  compared  BA  of 
both formulations in the fed state, the lack of BE demonstration renders impossible the conclusion on 
a  valid  dosing  based  on  extrapolation  of  capsule  data  for  the  OS  in  the  adult  population.  Therefore 
based  on  the  data  presented  the  oral  solution  cannot  be  considered  for  the  treatment  of  the  adult 
population. 
Pharmacokinetics and clinical efficacy - Paediatric Trial 1182.14 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  TPV  OS  and  capsules  were  examined  in  HIV-1  infected  patients  in  Trial 
1182.14, in  a formal  PK substudy  among  52  patients,  and subsequently  in  all  patients,  using  trough 
sampling  (for  a  full  discussion,  please  see  EMEA/H/C/631/II/29).    In  this  trial,  all  children  were  to 
begin dosing using OS.  After the first 28 days of dosing, older, larger children were allowed to switch 
from OS to capsules, provided that their calculated dose reached TPV/r 500 mg/200 mg b.i.d. 
Children  were  randomised  between  two  dose  groups  based  on  body  surface  area  (BSA).    A  lower 
TPV/r dose of 290mg/115mg per m2 was compared to the higher dose of 375mg/150mg per m2 b.i.d.  
Children continued on these doses for 48 weeks. Whereas predefined pharmacokinetic criteria would 
have supported the selection of the lower dose, a full trial analysis, including also efficacy and safety, 
was performed based on 48 week data, which resulted in the high dose being chosen definitively as the 
desired dose.   
12/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tables  7  summarises  key  PK  findings  from  the  48  week  analysis.  As  anticipated,  the  TPV 
concentrations  were  higher  in  the  high  dose  group  than  the  low  dose  group.    Furthermore,  it 
demonstrated the broad range of concentrations observed in patients in the trial. The large coefficients 
of  variance  (expressed  as  percent,  or  CV%)  for  steady-state  trough  values,  from  66.8%  to  124.5%, 
underline this. 
Table 7: Summary  of  TPV  steady-state  PK  for  paediatric  patients  receiving  TPV/r  290/115 
  mg/m2 or 375/150 mg/m2 – Cmin,ss1 in full trial population, receiving either OS or 
  CAPs 
Age (yrs) 
2 to <6 
6 to <12 
12 to 18 
Summary Statistic 
N samples 
Geometric Mean Cmin,ss (µM) 
Geometric CV% 
N samples 
Geometric Mean Cmin,ss (µM) 
Geometric CV% 
N samples 
Geometric Mean Cmin,ss (µM) 
Geometric CV% 
CV%: coefficient of variance, expressed as percent 
1. 
concentrations obtained 10-14 hours post-dosing 
2.  Ratio of  geometric mean for High dose / Low dose 
TPV/r dose (mg/m2) 
290/115 
99 
32.69 
99.2 
120 
33.08 
91.9 
106 
49.79 
115.0 
375/150 
44 
46.91 
66.8 
84 
61.32 
86.1 
82 
55.06 
124.5 
Ratio2 
1.4 
1.9 
1.1 
These figures show the high variability of TPV PK (CV values close to 100%). This may not only be 
an inherent characteristic of TPV as such, but could also be an indicator for adherence problems with 
the oral OS (e.g. due to vomiting).  Interestingly, the lower ratio of the geometric mean for high/low 
dose in the 12-18 year olds as compared to the other age groups may be explained by the maximum 
dose  of  500/200 mg  TPV/rtv,  which  may  have  been  achieved  also  in  a  considerable  proportion  of 
patients in the low-dose group. 
Result at 48 weeks Trial 1182.14 
Overall,  45.6%  (26/57)  patients  achieved  VL  <400  copies/ml  in  the  TPV/r  high  dose  compared  to 
39.7 % (23/58) in the TPV/r low dose, but the difference was not statistically significant (p=0.57). A 
total of 34.5% (20/58) patients in the TPV/r low dose group vs. 35.1% (20/57) patients in the TPV/r 
high dose group achieved <50 copies/ml. Median VL decrease was -0.80 log10 copies/ml in the TPV/r 
low  dose  group  compared  to  -1.24  log10  copies/ml  in  the  TPV/r  high  dose  group.  The  difference 
between the two doses at Week 48 was not statistically significant. The overall proportion of patients 
achieving  VL  decrease  ≥1  log10  copies/ml  was  43.1%  (25/58)  in  the  TPV/r  low  dose  and  45.6% 
(26/57)  in  the  TPV/r  high  dose  at  Week  48  (p=0.85).  Both  dose  groups  showed  overall  increase  in 
CD4 cell count and CD4% through Week 48. 
Table 8: 
Summary of the Week 48 efficacy results 
13/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As shown in Table 11 above, a higher proportion of patients achieved VL<400 copies/ml in the 2 to 
<6 age group than in the 6 to <12 age group and the 12 to 18 age group. Likewise, the proportion of 
patients with virologic response was higher in younger children (e.g. 50% of patients in the 2- <6 year 
group achieved VL <50 copies/ml vs. 25% in the 12-18 year group). Although there was an overall 
trend  towards  better  virological  response  with  the  TPV/r  high  dose,  no  statistically  significant 
difference  was  observed.  This  trend  for  higher  response  with  the  high  dose  was  mainly  due  to  the 
better results observed in the 6 to <12 years old and 12 to 18 years old age cohorts. In the 2 to <6 year 
group there was on the contrary a trend for higher virological response with the TPV/r low dose group.  
A  logistic  regression  was  performed  modelling  the  effects  of  treatment  group,  genotypic  inhibitory 
quotient (GIQ), baseline viral load, age group, TPV adherence, and genotypic sensitivity score (GSS) 
on the outcome at Week 48 for the three virologic endpoints of HIV RNA <400 copies/ml, HIV RNA 
<50 copies/ml, and ≥1 log10 reduction of HIV RNA from baseline.  
Higher baseline resistance tended to result in a lower proportion of virologic responders.  Increasing 
TPV mutation scores were associated with decreased rates of virologic response, particularly for the 
low dose patients.  In those patients with more baseline resistance mutations, the high dose groups had 
higher viral response rates, especially in the group with ≥5 TPV mutations. 
Table 9: 
baseline   TPV mutation score (FAS 48) 
Proportions of patients with virologic response (<400 copies/ml) at Week 48 by 
Baseline TPV Mutation Score 
0 
1 to 4 
5 or more 
Total 
Low Dose 
n (%) N 
6  (85.7)  7 
16 (44.4) 36 
1 (6.7) 15 
23 (39.7) 58 
High Dose 
n (%) N 
4 (33.3) 12 
17 (51.5) 33 
5 (41.7) 12 
26 (45.6) 57 
The GIQ is a reflection of TPV concentration and baseline resistance to TPV.  It was determined for 
each patient by dividing the geometric mean of TPV Ctrough obtained at steady state by the number of 
TPV mutations present at baseline.  Patients with the largest number of TPV mutations (i.e. patients 
with more advanced infections and more extensive prior treatment) had the lowest GIQ values.   
However, this baseline resistance was countered in the high dose group by the achievement of higher 
concentrations of TPV.  Overall, the median GIQ values were larger among TPV/r high dose-treated 
patients (12.33 for low dose vs. 19.04 for high dose), a trend that was observed within each age group 
as  well.    Moreover,  among  the  age  groups,  the  2  to  <6  year-olds  exhibited  the  largest  median  GIQ 
score, with the 6 to <12 year-olds given high dose TPV/r having a lower score, followed by 12 to 18 
year-olds having the lowest score, reflecting that the younger children had fewer baseline mutations, 
which translated into higher GIQ and thus higher virologic response rates. 
Table 10:  Virologic response at Week 48 based on the GIQ quartiles 
GIQ quartiles 
Q1 (0.56-7.19) 
Q2 (7.23-13.50) 
Q3 (13.68-38.61) 
Q4 (39.29-215.38) 
<400 copies/mL  
n (%) N 
  2  (8.0)  25 
13 (52.0) 25 
15 (57.7) 26 
17 (68.0) 25 
<50 copies/mL  
n (%) N 
1   (4.0)   25 
11 (44.0) 25 
13 (50.0) 26 
14 (56.0) 25 
≥1 log10 copies/mL 
n (%) N 
 2 ( 8.0)  25 
14 (56.0) 25 
16 (61.5) 26 
17 (68.0) 25 
Multivariate  analyses  revealed  that  GIQ  level  and  adherence  to  treatment  were  each  statistically 
significant predictors of viral load response.  When these parameters were included in the model, age 
was no longer an important factor.  Overall, higher GIQ scores led to higher odds ratios for response 
compared to the lowest GIQ quartile.  This suggests that treatment response can be improved by using 
the higher dose of TPV/r, resulting in an increase in TPV concentration and a higher GIQ.   
14/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four (4) patients, all in the TPV/r low dose group, developed an AIDS defined illness. Kaplan-Meier 
probability  of  reaching  an  AIDS  defining  illness  up  to  Week  48  was  7.8%  in  the  TPV/r  low  dose 
group vs. 0.0% in the TPV/r high dose group (p = 0.04). 
Discussion on the 48-week results 
The MAH concluded that TPV/r high dose, TPV 375 mg/m2 + RTV 150mg/m2, is the appropriate dose 
for paediatric patients aged 2 to 18 years as it provided a higher and more durable response with an 
acceptable safety profile. Therefore, although the interim analysis results at 24-week led to selection of 
the TPV/r low dose, all patients were switched to the TPV/r high dose following analysis of the 48-
week results.  
Theses  changes  highlight  the  difficulty  of  identifying  the  appropriate  dosing    based  on  a  rational 
argument as overall the results were not consistent across the different age groups: the low dose gave 
better response rate in the 2-6 and in the 12-18 age groups whereas the high dose gave better response 
rate in the 6-12 age group.  
However, when analysing the efficacy results for both dose groups by 48 weeks for all age groups, the 
percentage of patients with VL <50 copies/ml, results were similar for the low dose and the high dose 
(34.5% and 35.1%, respectively). This inconclusiveness of findings, not giving a clear picture on the 
effective dose within a good safety margin, highlights the paucity of the available data. 
Specifically for the 12-18 year-old patients, only a small virologic impact was observed, i.e. -0.26 in 
TPV/r low dose group to -0.62 log10 copies/ml in the TPV/r high dose group (-0.2 in the oral solution 
group and -0.4 in the capsule group). Nevertheless, comparison with other clinical trials of ritonavir 
boosted PIs show similar results. For all of them, efficacy results markedly decreased for adolescents 
when compared to children.  
GIQ and adherence were shown to be significant predictors of Week 48 response rates while the age 
group was not a significant predictor. For this reason, the MAH believes that the higher dose of TPV/r 
is appropriate, especially for children who fulfil the current indication for TPV/r, and are infected with 
HIV that has failed prior therapy. 
In  principle,  the  CHMP  considered  the  use  of  the  dose  that  provides  the  higher  GIQ  in  this  target 
population  with  viral  strains  harbouring  multi-resistance  reasonable.  However,  clinical  data  to 
substantiate this dose in children remain limited. 
Taking  into  account  the  effect  on  viral  load,  and  the  differences  in  the  safety  profiles  due  to  the 
composition of the oral solution that may further compromise the product’s safety (cf. Discussion on 
excipients),  TPV/r  may  still  have  a  place,  even  if  very  limited,  in  the  treatment  of  HIV  infected 
children  harbouring  a  multi  resistant  virus.  In  view  of  the limitations  of the  PK  and  clinical  data  in 
children with the recommended dose TPV/r as oral solution can be only considered for the treatment 
of  children  from  2  to  12  years  of  age  as  a  last  line  therapy  when  no  other  therapeutic  options  are 
available. Patients reaching 12 years could then be switched to the capsules (see assessment of II/29). 
Efficacy results at Week 100 
As  discussed  above,  based  on  the  48-week  data,  the  MAH  selected  the  TPV/r  high  dose  for  the 
continuation of the study, i.e. patients who were on low dose from the beginning of the trial and those 
who were on high dose and switched to low dose after the first interim analysis received the TPV/r 
high dose after Week 48.  
Results 
The  100-week  efficacy  analyses  were  mainly  focussed  on  the  comparison  of  the  two  formulations 
(oral  solution  and  soft  capsules)  but  not  on  the  different  dose  regimens  investigated  in  the  first  48 
weeks  of  the  study.  Changes  from  baseline  in  viral  load,  CD4  and  CD4%  and  virological  response 
rates are summarised in Tables 7 and 8 respectively.  
15/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: 
Median change from baseline for virologic and immunologic parameters for  
TPV/r treated patients, by age group and formulation 
Table 12:  Proportion of TPV/r treated patients with viral response, by age group and 
formulation
16/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the 100-week results 
The  week  100  results  shoed  overall  a  low  response,  with  a  marked  difference  between  the  2  age 
groups: a Log 10 VL reduction was achieved in 56% for 2-6 years group and 35.1% in the 6-12 year 
group. These results were also reflected in the secondary endpoints i.e VL> 50/400 copies/ml. 
According to the MAH, these results suggest a comparable efficacy between the two TPV formulation 
treatment  groups  based  on  the  NCF  analysis  of  the  number  of  patients  with  VL  reduction  <400, 
<50 copies/ml  and  at  least  1  log10  sustained  VL  reduction  from  baseline  virologic  endpoints.  The 
results  also  showed  an  advantage  among  capsule  treated  patients  over  oral  solution  treated  patients 
LOCF median changes from baseline in virologic and CD4-cell endpoints. 
Due to the design of study, in particular in view of the ‘non-randomised’ switch of formulations in the 
12-18  year  group,  a  valid  comparison  is  difficult.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  could  not  conclude  on  the 
therapeutic equivalence of the two formulations based on the above results. Overall, the response rate 
in this study was significantly low. In both formulation groups, only approximately 20% of the 12-18 
year-old patients had VL <50 copies/ml at week 100 (NCF), which is considered worrying. The 100-
week efficacy data confirmed a lower virologic response in the 12-18 year group compared to younger 
groups.  
Since  the  switch  from  oral  solution  to  soft-gelatin  capsule  was  conducted  in  a  non-randomised 
manner, patients staying on oral solution can be considered as pre-selected in terms of tolerability of 
the liquid formulation. Nevertheless, globally the capsule compares favourable to the oral solution. 
Overall discussion on efficacy 
Both  Study  1182.45  and  Study  1182.100  failed  to  demonstrate  BE  between  the  OS  and  the  capsule 
formulation. Rather, they showed that the OS is significantly supra-bioavailable when compared to the 
capsule  formulation.  While  this  effect  was  less  pronounced  in  the latter  study  that  compared  BA  of 
both  formulations  in  the  fed  state,  the  lack  of  BE  demonstration  renders  the  conclusion  on  a  valid 
dosing based on extrapolation of capsule data for the OS in the adult population impossible.  
Also, the high impact of food on the relative BA of the OS highlights the necessity to carefully control 
the  intake,  especially  in  patients  with  limited  food  intake.  As  the  MAH  proposed  an  indication  in 
patients who are experiencing difficulties in swallowing, this is especially problematic, as intake of OS 
in fasted conditions could particularly lead to over-exposure and therefore to a worsening of the safety 
profile. In view of the better tolerability of the OS, the recommendation to take TPV with food should 
remain in the SPC; here, a claim of BE between fed and fasted state cannot be accepted based on the 
presented data. Therefore, the indication of the OS was restricted to exclude the adult population. 
In  addition,  the  difference between  relative  BA  of the  two formulations raised concerns  for  patients 
switching  between  one  and  the  other,  especially  children  having  reached  the  adult  dosing  of  TPV/r 
500/200mg  b.i.d.,  who  could  potentially  experience  a  sudden  decrease  in  TPV  exposure  when 
changing  to  the  capsule  formulation.  Data  provided  by  the  MAH  for  the  12-18  year  old  children, 
having  received  first  the  OS  and  then  the  capsules,  are  reassuring  since  there  is  no  apparent 
deterioration of the efficacy results in these patients switching from the oral solution to the capsule. 
Therefore, it can be accepted that no specific dose-adjustment is proposed in case of switch from the 
oral solution to the capsules in paediatric patients (i.e. getting 12 years while already on TPV therapy).  
Taking into account the effect on viral load observed in Trial 1182.14, TPV/r may have a place, even 
if very limited, in the treatment of HIV infected children harbouring multi resistant virus. In view of 
the  limitations  of  the  PK  and  clinical  data  in  children  with  the  recommended  dose  TPV/r  as  oral 
solution  can  be  only  considered for  the  treatment of  children  when  no  other  therapeutic  options  are 
available. The need for deep salvage therapy is mainly expected to be observed in adolescents and not 
in younger children (apart for the situation of transmission of multi-resistant strain from the mother),.  
Overall, the use of TPV/r is expected to be marginal in children below 12 years of age. Indeed, the 
younger  the  children  are,  the  less  likely  is  the  presence  of  HIV  harbouring  multiple  PI  resistance 
mutations. However, TPV/r could potentially address a medical need in situations of last-line therapy 
for younger ages. As for the adult population and the capsule formulation, this medicinal product can 
be only considered as a last line therapy and only in children from 2 to 12 years of age whose viral 
17/22 
 
 
 
 
 
strain does not harbour mutations known to impact TPV’s efficacy. Patients reaching 12 years should 
switch to the capsule formulation. 
Clinical safety 
Apart  from  the  bioequivalence  study,  no  specific  clinical  safety  study  has  been  provided.  However, 
reference  has  been  made  to  the  paediatric  study  1182.14  (please  refer  to  the  assessment  report  of 
procedure II/29). 
In Study 1182.45, 25 of the 30 subjects reported a total 60 adverse events (AEs). Of these, 46 were 
considered  treatment-related.  All  AEs  were  mild  or  moderate  in  intensity.    Gastrointestinal  events, 
such as abdominal pain, diarrhoea, nausea and dyspepsia were the most frequent events assessed to be 
treatment-related.  Headaches and dizziness were also reported. There were no significant safety issues 
relating to vital signs, ECG findings and physical examination or laboratory safety tests. 
Discussion on the excipients 
The  concentrations  of  excipients  in  the  oral  solution  as  listed  in  the  TPV  and  RTV  SPC  were 
examined  and  several  exceeded  acceptable  daily  intake  limits.    The  latter  include  vitamin  E  as 
administered in Vitamin E TPGS and PEG 400.  The major excipients in the formulation are discussed 
below. 
Propylene glycol (PG) 
The EMEA guideline on excipients (Volume 3B Guideline. Medicinal product for human use. Safety 
environment  and  information.  2003)  gives  guidance  regarding  the  use  of  propylene  glycol.  The 
thresholds for this substance are 400mg/kg for adults and 200mg/kg for children. The threshold level 
is 200 mg/kg/day for children. The level of PG found in TPV oral solution formulation with RTV oral 
solution co-administration is judged to be safe at less than half the threshold level in children greater 
than 2 years of age.  Toxic effects of PG are similar to those of ethanol intoxication, e.g. stupor, ataxia. 
At  high  PG  exposure  levels,  other  effects  may  be  noted  and  include  seizures,  tachycardia, 
hyperosmolality, lactic acidosis, and renal toxicity.  
Overall,  as regards to PG it is showed that the maximum daily uptake when using TPV oral solution 
remains well below the limits defined for safety reasons. 
Capmul MCM 
Capmul MCM, is a proprietary mixture of glyceryl caprate (C10) and glyceryl caprylate (C8), which are 
medium chain monoglycerides.  Mono- and triglycerides are absorbed into the intestinal cells where 
they  are  largely  converted  back  to  triglycerides.  The  Joint  FAO/WHO  Expert  Committee  on  Food 
Additives has concluded that there is no evidence that the presence of mono- or diglycerides of food 
fats has any deleterious effect on cells or tissues.  Mono- and diglycerides are consumed daily in diets 
containing  fat  and  no  harmful  effects  have  been  specifically  associated  with  mono-  or  diglycerides.  
Furthermore, the mono- and diglycerides most likely to produce unwanted effects are those containing 
long-chain saturated fatty acids (e.g., stearic acid).  Thus, as glyceryl caprate and glyceryl caprylate 
are  natural  constituents  of  the  human  diet  and  human  triglyceride  metabolism,  their  presence  as  a 
mixture in Capmul MCM is not expected to cause safety concern. 
Overall  Capmul  is  considered  a  non-critical  excipient  regarding  its  safety  in  humans;  therefore,  no 
upper intake limits have been established. 
Vitamin E polyethylene glycol succinate (Vitamin E TPGS) 
Vitamin E TPGS is a water-soluble form of natural-source vitamin E prepared by esterifying d-alpha-
tocopheryl acid succinate with polyethylene glycol 1000.  
The safety of TPGS as a food supplement is described by the European Food safety Authority (EFSA).  
The  NOAEL  was  defined  as  1000mg/kg/day  based  on  the  data  obtained  in  rats  and  mice.  In  rats 
extremely  high  dosages  (2000  mg/kg/day)  lead  to  longer  prothrombin  and  thromboplastin  times.  In 
rats  an  antagonistic  effect  between  vitamin  E  and  vitamin  K  was  observed.  In  rats  which  received 
2000 mg/kg/day and were deprived from Vitamin K hemorrhages were observed. 
18/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety  of  vitamin  E  intake  has  also  been  reviewed  by  the  NIH  and  Hathcock  et  al.  In  humans  no 
consistent  side  effects  are  associated  with  chronic  vitamin  E  usage  even  at  high  dosages 
(<3600IU/day) as demonstrated in clinical trials. In one of these trials no significant side effects were 
found in a double-blind crossover study involving 52 patients, who received daily amounts of 1600 IU 
RRR-alpha-tocopheryl  succinate  over  6  months.  No  difference  in  prothrombin  time  was  observed. 
High levels of Vitamin E can exacerbate the blood coagulation effect of Vitamin K deficiency. There 
are several  reports  of  undesirable  effects  of  vitamin  E  such  as  fatigue  and  muscle  weakness in  case 
reports which could not be confirmed in controlled clinical trials. 
The NIH has defined the tolerable intake level (UL) of vitamin E in adults at 1500 IU (1000 mg alpha 
tocepherol) which is the highest dose unlikely to result in bleeding problems. These levels are based 
on the lowest-observed-adverse-effect-level (LOAEL) in animals (500 mg /kg) corrected with a safety 
factor.  
Ten (10) ml TPV solution (maximum dose) contains a higher level of Vitamin E (d-alpha-tocopherol) 
than the recommended daily intake and thus can be considered an overdose. The exposure in adults is 
lower  than  the  acceptable  limit  stated  by  the  NIH  which  is  14  mg/kg/day,  while  the  exposure  in 
children  exceeds  the  limit  set  by  the  NIH.  Therefore,  an  overdose  can  be  expected  with  the  water-
soluble form of vitamin E contained in TPV OS.  
Signs  of  acute  vitamin  E  overdose  can  include  gastrointestinal  disturbances  such  as  nausea  and 
diarrhoea  or  headache.  Chronic  overdose  may  result  in  muscle  weakness  and  fatigue.  Although  the 
AEs  reported  in  study  1182.45  were  not  considered  to  be  specific,  the  CHMP  pointed  out  that  a 
relationship between these events and the vitamin E content of the oral solution could not be excluded. 
Data from Trials 1182.14 and RESIST 1 and 2 (1182.12 and 1182.48 indicate that the PT, aPTT and 
coagulation factor levels and activity (Factors II, V and VII) are not affected by TPV/r administration 
in humans. Furthermore, there was no effect on these coagulation parameters with the use of vitamin 
E-containing TPV/r oral solution in children. An analysis of clinical bleeding events was performed in 
the  100  week  analysis  of  the  1182.14  clinical  trial  report,  to  determine  whether  the  vitamin  E-
containing  OS  resulted  in  increased  risk  of  bleeding,  compared  the  capsule  formulation.  All 
frequencies of occurrence of clinical bleeding AEs (Bleeding medically selected terms [MSTs]) were 
compared among the 12-18 year old children who took OS and the 12-18 year olds who took capsules 
cumulatively through the week 48 analysis and the week 100 analysis. In neither analysis was there 
evidence of increased risk of these events in the OS recipients (48 weeks: 1/25 (4.0%) vs 4/28 (14.3%) 
for OS and capsule recipients, respectively; 100 weeks: 4/25 (16.7%) vs 4/29 (13.8%), respectively). 
Furthermore, among children less than 12 years, all of whom received OS, the proportions with MST 
bleeding events was lower (4/62 (6.5%) and 5/52 (9.6%) for the weeks 48 and 100 analyses). Most of 
these events were relatively minor, such as epistaxis, haematomas, and gingival bleeding. 
Overall,  most  of  the  study  data  presented by  the  MAH  were  derived from  adult  patients. The  doses 
applied and formulations used were very variable. From the data presented no clear conclusion can be 
drawn on whether supplementation with high doses of vitamin E is linked to any increased risk. The 
submitted information on vitamin E supplementation focused on fat-soluble forms and the main body 
of evidence on the safety of the water-soluble vitamin E polyethylene glycol succinate, as contained in 
TPV OS, was gathered in substitution studies. There is evidence that absorption of the water-soluble 
form  is  impaired  in  healthy  adults,  i.e.  those  with  preserved  lipid  absorption  and  normal  vitamin  E 
homeostasis.  In  these  subjects,  Vitamin  E  TPGS  only  slightly  elevated  the  plasma  alpha-tocopherol 
levels. However, the applied doses were much lower than those achieved with TPV OS.  
Overall, the provided data show that the maximum daily intake of Vitamin E TPGS in children taking 
Aptivus OS is much higher than the recommended upper limits. Current available data cannot rule out 
that this constitutes a risk to the patients.  
Polyethylene Glycol 400 (PEG 400) 
PEG 400 is considered of low toxicity when administered orally. The exposure to PEG 400 in TPV OS 
is estimated at ~ 20 fold the WHO Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI).   
19/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The anticipated effect of PEG-400 is loose stools/diarrhoea. According to the MAH, this effect did not 
occur  at  a  higher  frequency  in  volunteers/patients  taking  TPV  OS  as  compared  to  those  taking 
capsules. However, study 1182.45 was a single-dose study and the groups of 12-18 year old paediatric 
patients in study 1182.14 were not randomised to the respective treatment, i.e. selection bias cannot be 
excluded.  Consequently  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  comparative  safety  data  cannot  be 
regarded  as  meaningful.  Although,  no  increase  in  diarrhoea  was  observed  by  the  MAH  when 
comparing oral solution and capsules in the clinical trials it is anticipated that PEG 400 at this dose 
level may contribute to an increased incidence of soft stools and/or diarrhoea. 
In addition, the PEG-1000 content of Vitamine E TPGS raises additional concern. According to the 
statement of the EFSA the Scientific Committee on Food and the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee 
on Food Additives established limits for PEG 300-4000 of 5 mg/kg bw/day (body weight per day) and 
PEG 200-10000 of 10 mg/kg bw/day in infants and children, respectively. Summing up the PEG-400 
and  the  PEG-1000  content  in  TPV  OS  would  result  in  PEG  levels  of  30  to  60-fold  the  UL 
recommended by EFSA. 
Overall, the provided data show that the maximum daily intake of PEG in children taking Aptivus OS 
is much higher than the recommended upper limits. Currently available data cannot rule out that this 
constitutes a risk to the patients.  
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  MAH  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The  MAH  submitted  an  updated  RMP  (version  4.2)  which  was  assessed  in  the  framework  of  the 
parallel extension of indication variation EMEA/H/C/631/II/29.   
6.  Risk/benefit assessment, overall conclusions, and recommendation 
Benefit 
In  general,  liquid  formulations  are  advantageous  in  patients  unable  to  swallow  solid  formulations  - 
adults as well as children - and in those requiring dosage adjustments e.g. children and patients with 
renal  or  hepatic  impairment.  As  TPV  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  hepatic 
impairment  and  as  no  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  for  patients  with  renal  impairment,  the  latter 
benefits are not applicable. TPV is currently authorised for heavily pretreated patients, likely to suffer 
from advanced immunodeficiency. Some opportunistic infections and other diseases related to severe 
immunodeficiency,  e.g.  different  forms  of  oesophagitis,  may  result  in  difficulties  swallowing  the 
capsules,  which  may  lead  to  an  interruption  of  the  therapy.  To  circumvent  this,  development  of  a 
liquid TPV formulation is critical. Moreover, the enlargement of the antiviral armamentarium for the 
treatment  of  HIV  infected  children  is  crucial.  This  can  only  be  achieved  by  developing  either  solid 
dosage  forms  of  lower  strengths  or  liquid  dosage  forms  to  allow  for  dose  adjustment  according  to 
weight, size or age. 
Risk 
As  discussed  above,  bioequivalence  between  TPV  capsules  and  the  oral  solution  has  not  been 
demonstrated. The BE study comparing the two formulations in the fed state (as recommended in the 
SPC) presented major design issues precluding a reliable assessment of the results. When disregarding 
these  major  limitations,  suprabioavailability  was  found  with  90%  confidence  intervals  for  Cmax  of 
103-126% and for AUC0-12h of 111-135%. This overexposure may lead to more severe adverse events 
20/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  view  of  the  known  safety  profile  of  TPV  capsules.  This  applies  especially  to  the  oral  solution, 
where  poor  palatability  of  the  oral  solution  and  the  composition  (critical  contents  of  some  of  the 
excipients:  PEG  and  Vitamin  E  TPGS)  raise  concerns  as  regards  the  tolerability  and  may  further 
compromise the product’s safety, in particular with respect to gastro-intestinal and bleeding events. 
Balance 
Adults unable to swallow TPV capsules: 
The  supra-bioavailability  observed  with  the  OS,  when  both  products  were  administered  under  fed 
conditions (as recommended in the respective SPCs) may lead to more severe adverse events. This is 
considered not acceptable in view of the worrying safety profile of TPV (e.g. hepatotoxicity and intra-
cranial haemorrhages).  
Paediatric patients: 
Due  to  the  major  deficiencies  of  the  study  design  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn  from  the  study  as 
regards the bioequivalence between both formulations. In view on the effect on the viral load of TPV 
OS the data submitted within this application can be only regarded as favourable in highly pre-treated 
children  from  2  to  12  years  of  age  with  virus  resistant  to  multiple  proteases  inhibitors.  The  oral 
solution should be used only in patients without any other therapeutics options. Patients reaching 12 
years should then be switched to the capsules (see assessment of EMEA/H/C/631/II/29). 
Overall Conclusion 
The MAH has developed an oral solution to be used in children as well as in adults unable to swallow 
the  capsules.  Even  though  this  oral  solution  is  of  interest,  it  remains  that  the  PK  development 
performed by the MAH suffers from several deficiencies; thus it is currently not possible to establish 
the condition for a proper inter-changeability between the capsule and the oral solution. Therefore this 
oral solution cannot be proposed for adult patients who cannot swallow the capsule.  
Given the severe safety profile and the complex interaction profile of TPV/r, this boosted PI was only 
approved  for  the  use  in  heavily  PI-experienced  adult  patients.  Further  to  the  risks  identified  for  the 
capsules, the oral solution bears some additional risks as stressed above, which led the CHMP to the 
conclusion  that  it  should  be  recommended  for  approval  in  a  limited  indication.  As  for  the  adult 
population, this medicinal product can be only considered as a last line therapy and only in children 
whose  viral  strain  does  not  harbour  mutations  impacting  TPV’s  efficacy.  A  deep  salvage  therapy 
situation is mainly expected to be observed in adolescents and not in younger children (apart from the 
situation of transmission of multi-resistant strain from the mother).  The use of TPV/r is expected to be 
marginal in children and anecdotal in the particular subgroup of children below 12 years. Indeed, the 
younger  the  children  are  the  less  likely  is  the  presence  of  HIV  harbouring  multiple  PI  resistance 
mutations. Nevertheless, a medical need for TPV/r in situations of deep salvage therapy for younger 
ages  cannot  be  excluded.  Therefore,  the  benefit/risk  of  TPV/r  oral  solution  can  be  regarded  as 
favourable only in paediatric patients from 2 years to 12 years of age as a last line therapy option and 
when the approved capsule formulation is not suitable to achieve the currently recommended dose. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Aptivus 100 mg/ml oral solution in the treatment of HIV-1 
infection  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  as 
last line therapy in highly pre-treated children from 2 to 12 years of age with virus resistant to multiple 
proteases inhibitors. 
User consultation 
A readability test of the PL for Aptivus 100 mg/ml oral solution was performed. The composition of 
the  test  group  is  considered  acceptable.  The  PL  was  initially  evaluated  in  a  pilot  test  which  was 
performed with 5 participants, followed by two rounds of testing with 10 persons each. The pilot test 
led to a minor change in the PL.  The change introduced between the pilot test and the main test was 
21/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided by the MAH upon request. This amended PL was subject of the second and third round. No 
change was made in the PL, the layout or the questionnaire between the 1st and 2nd cycle test. 
During the Readability User Test, at least 19 of 20 participants were able to find and understand the 
answer  to  each  individual  question,  i.e.  at  least  90 %  of  the  participants  located  the  requested 
information of which at least 90 % showed that they were able to understand it. This is in line with the 
“Draft guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human 
use”  (Revision  September  2006)  Update  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  as  amended  by  Directive 
2004/27/EC. 
Results  of  the  user  test  are  therefore  considered  satisfactory  and  showed  that  the  PL  for  Aptivus 
100 mg/ml oral solution could be rated as readable and comprehensible according to the requirements. 
22/22 
 
 
