18 July 2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Aptivus 
tipranavir   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000631/II/0049/G 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
19 May 2011 
EMA/567400/2011  
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation  
CHMP variation assessment report 
Type II variation EMEA/H/C/000631/II/0049/G 
Name: 
Common name: 
Aptivus 
tipranavir 
Indication summary (as last approved): 
treatment of HIV-1 infection 
Marketing authorisation holder: 
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
Aptivus (tipranavir - TPV) is a Human Immunodeficiency Virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease inhibitor (PI), 
indicated in co-administration with low dose ritonavir (RTV, if used as booster =/r) for combination 
antiretroviral (ARV) treatment of HIV infection in highly pre-treated patients with virus resistant to 
multiple PIs. Tipranavir must always be given with low dose RTV as a pharmacokinetic enhancer, and 
should only be used as part of an active combination ARV regimen in patients with no other therapeutic 
option. Tipranavir is available as capsule and oral solution. Tipranavir 250 mg capsule co-administered 
with low dose RTV, is indicated for combination ARV treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated 
adults and adolescents 12 years of age or older with virus resistant to multiple PIs. Tipranavir 
100 mg/ml oral solution, co-administered with low dose RTV, is indicated for combination ARV 
treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated children from 2 to 12 years of age with virus 
resistant to multiple PI.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) has submitted a group of type II variations to update the 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 of the SmPC with information on pharmacokinetics interaction with alfuzocin, 
sildenafil, colchicine, salmeterol, bosentan, raltegravir and valaciclovir. 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to introduce minor linguistic changes to the French, Greek, 
Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Finnish, German, Hungarian and English annexes and to update the 
details of the Spanish local representative in the package leaflet. A sentence about elderly patients is 
deleted from the package leaflet of oral solution presentation. Annex II has been updated according to 
the latest QRD recommendations. 
The variations submitted in the group are the following: 
Variations requested 
Type 
C.I.4 
Variations related to significant modifications of the SmPC 
II 
due in particular to new quality, pre-clinical, clinical or 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 2/12
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Variations requested 
Type 
pharmacovigilance data 
1.2.  Clinical aspects 
Concomitant use of Valaciclovir 
Within this application, the MAH submitted the results of a pharmacokinetic study (study 1182.104) to 
document the interaction between tipranavir/ritonavir (TPV/r) and valaciclovir (VAL). 
This study was an open-label one-sequence cross-over pharmacokinetic interaction study of steady-
state TPV/r 500/200 mg with single-dose VAL (500 mg) in healthy volunteers. The table below 
describes the design of study 1182.104. 
Study title 
An  open-label  one-sequence  cross-over  pharmacokinetic  interaction  study  of 
steady-state  tipranavir/ritonavir  500/200  mg  with  single-dose  valaciclovir  (500 
mg) in healthy volunteers 
1 
Phase 
Methodology  Open  label,  one-sequence,  cross  over,  pharmacokinetic  study  in  healthy  male 
Number 
subjects 
of 
for 
Criteria 
inclusion 
Study design 
and female HIV-negative adult volunteers 
enrolled: 29; entered: 29; evaluated: 26 
actual:  enrolled:  29;  entered:  29;  analysed:  29  (safety  set);  26  (primary 
endpoint) 
Healthy  female  and  male  subjects,  age  >  19  and  <  59  years  (20  to  58  years 
inclusive), weight ≥ 60 kg, BMI > 18.5 and < 29.9 kg/m2;  
Criteria 
evaluation 
for 
Primary endpoints:  
AUC0-12h and Cmax for VAL 
Secondary endpoints: 
- AUC0-12h , Cmax and C12h (or Clast) for TPV and RTV 
- CL/F, VZ/F and t½ for VAL, TPV and RTV 
- Safety 
Statistical 
methods 
Two-sided 90% confidence intervals (CIs) for the median of intra-subject ratios 
of  AUC0-12h  and  Cmax  were  calculated  to  determine  whether  the  CIs  are 
contained  in  the  acceptance  range  of  80-125%.  Additionally,  the  corresponding 
point  estimators  (geometric  means)  for  the  median  intra-subject  ratios  and  the 
associated confidence intervals were provided. 
Pharmacokinetics results 
29 subjects (25 males and 4 females) were randomised and treated and a total of 26 subjects 
completed the trial as planned. For safety reasons, 3 subjects prematurely discontinued the treatment 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 3/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during treatment with TPV/r due to AEs. These patients developed Development of Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (DAIDS) Grade 3 or Grade 4 rapidly increasing ALT and/or AST elevations which 
occurred between day 7 and day 8 of the study. 
The effect of steady-state TPV/r 500/200 mg bid on VAL Cmax and AUC0-12h is summarised in the 
table presented below. 
The effect of single-dose VAL on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of TPV 500 mg (co-administered 
with RTV 200 mg) is summarised below. 
The effect of single-dose VAL on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of RTV 200 mg (co-administered 
with TPV 500 mg) is summarised in the table below. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 4/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
There were 4 serious adverse events (SAEs) in 2 subjects and 1 other significant AE in 1 subject, all of 
which leading to discontinuation of treatment. Two subjects were withdrawn due to elevated ALT and 
one subject due to elevated ALT and AST, which were described as toxic hepatitis.  
A total of 24 out of 29 subjects experienced an AE during the trial. By comparing the different 
treatment periods, most AEs occurred during TPV/r treatment (23 out of 29 subjects),  
Overall, 70 AEs were recorded during the study period, of which 60 AEs were assessed to be drug-
related. While the majority of the documented AEs was of mild intensity (45 AEs), some of the 
recorded AEs were of moderate (11 AEs) or severe intensity (14 AEs). Among the 14 AEs of severe 
intensity, for 8 subjects elevated ALT values and for 4 subjects elevated AST values were recorded.  
The pattern of AEs observed in this study was consistent with that seen in previous phase I healthy 
volunteer trials with VAL administration or TPV/r.  
The most frequently observed drug-related AEs were increases of ALT and AST as to expect for TPV 
and RTV co-medication from previous clinical trials. VAL has a well established AE profile, which 
includes mostly headaches and gastrointestinal tract symptoms which were additional, more frequently 
observed drug-related AEs. All subjects who experienced an AE during the study recovered fully. 
According to the MAH, co-administration of steady-state TPV/r 500/200 mg bid with single-dose VAL 
500 mg did not affect VAL Cmax or AUC (less than a 10% change relative to VAL alone), but was 
associated with an 18.9% increase in the concentration of VAL measured 12 h after VAL dosing 
(Cp12h). Tipranavir Cmax, Cp12h and AUC0-12h were unaffected by VAL (less than a 10% change 
relative to TPV/r alone). A single dose of VAL had no effect on RTV Cp12h (less than a 10% decrease 
relative to TPV/r alone), but was associated with a 19.4% decrease in Cmax and a 14.0% decrease in 
AUC0-12h. None of these changes were considered to be of clinical relevance by the MAH. 
Based on these results, The MAH has proposed to include in section 4.5 of the SmPC under 
“Interactions-CYP Isoenzyme Inhibitors” section a statement that no dose adjustment is needed when 
administering TPV/r with VAL. 
Concomitant use of raltegravir 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 5/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH presented results from the following publication: “Effect of tipranavir-ritonavir on 
pharmacokinetics of raltegravir; Hanley D et al; Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy, July 2009, p. 
2752–2755 Vol. 53, No. 7.” 
Raltegravir (RAL) is an integrase inhibitor that is used in combination with other antiretroviral agents, 
potentially including protease inhibitors, in the treatment of antiretroviral-naïve and experienced HIV-
infected patients. RAL is predominantly eliminated through glucuronidation via the UGT 1A1 isozyme, 
which it neither inhibits nor induces. RAL is not a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 substrate and, thus, it 
does not affect CYP3A4 metabolism. RAL is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp) 
and has been shown not to inhibit it.  
The abstract of this article is presented below: 
Raltegravir (RAL) is a novel and potent human immunodeficiency virus type 1 integrase inhibitor that is 
predominantly metabolized via glucuronidation. The protease inhibitor combination tipranavir (TPV) at 
500 mg and ritonavir (RTV) at 200 mg (TPV-RTV) has inhibitory and inductive effects on metabolic 
enzymes, which includes the potential to induce glucuronosyltransferase. Because RAL may be 
coadministered with TPV-RTV, there is the potential for the induction of RAL metabolism. 
Consequently, we assessed the effect of TPV-RTV on the pharmacokinetics of RAL and the safety and 
tolerability of this combination. Eighteen healthy adults were enrolled in this open-label study. The 
participants received RAL at 400 mg twice daily for 4 days (period 1) and TPV-RTV twice daily for 7 
days (period 2), followed immediately by 400 mg RAL with TPV-RTV twice daily for 4 days (period 3). 
Under steady-state conditions, the RAL concentration at 12 h (C12) was decreased when RAL was 
administered with TPV-RTV (geometric mean ratio [GMR], 0.45; 90% confidence interval [CI] 0.31, 
0.66; P = 0.0021); however, the area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to 12 h 
(GMR, 0.76; 90% CI, 0.49, 1.19; P = 0.2997) and the maximum concentration in serum (GMR, 0.82; 
90% CI, 0.46, 1.46; P = 0.5506) were not substantially affected. There were no serious adverse 
experiences or discontinuations due to study drug-related adverse experiences, and RAL 
coadministered with TPV-RTV was generally well tolerated. Although the RAL C12 was decreased with 
TPV-RTV in this study, favorable efficacy data collected in phase III studies substantiate that TPV-RTV 
may be coadministered with RAL without dose adjustment. 
Based on this information, the MAH proposed to add a statement in section 4.5 of the SmPC under 
“Interactions - Integrase strand transfer inhibitor” that no dosage adjustment is recommended 
concerning co-administration of TPV/r with RAL.  
Additional information on pharmacokinetics interactions  
Following a request of FDA, the US SmPC of Aptivus was recently updated with new safety information 
relatives to drug-drug interactions between Aptivus and a list of medicinal products:  sildenafil, 
alfuzosin, salmeterol, tadalafil, bosentan and colchicine. 
Through the current application, the MAH proposed to update the European SmPC and Package Leaflet 
of Aptivus in order to take into account these drug-drug interactions, except for the interaction with 
tadalafil which is already addressed in the European SmPC. 
Interaction with PDE-5 inhibitors 
Tipranavir is a substrate, an inducer and an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 CYP3A. When coadministered 
with ritonavir at the recommended dosage there is a net inhibition of P450 CYP3A.  
PDE-5 inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil and vardenafil) are metabolised by CYP3A4. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 6/12
 
 
 
 
 
A safe and effective dose has not been established when PDE-5 inhibitors are used with TPV/r. There is 
increased potential for PDE-5 inhibitors-associated adverse events (which include visual disturbances, 
hypotension, prolonged erection, and syncope).  
The co-administration of TPV/r with drugs which are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for 
which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events are 
contraindicated. As these drugs include sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH), the MAH proposed to update section 4.3 of the SmPC ‘Contraindications’ to 
contraindicate the use of sildenafil in PAH. The MAH also proposed to include a statement about 
sildenafil in section 4.5 ‘Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction’ of the 
SmPC mentioning a safe and effective dose has not been established when used with TPV/r. 
Interaction with alfuzosin 
Alfuzosin is an alpha-1 receptor antagonist used in the management of hypertension and benign 
prostatic hypertrophy. Alfuzosin is partially metabolised and excreted mainly in the bile and faeces. 
None of the metabolites found in man has any pharmacodynamic activity. CYP3A4 is the principal 
hepatic enzyme isoform involved in the metabolism of alfuzosin. 
Based on theoretical considerations, co-administration of TPV with low dose RTV and alfuzosin results 
in increased alfuzosin concentrations and may result in hypotension. 
As the co-administration of TPV/r with drugs which are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and 
for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events 
are contraindicated, the MAH proposed to update sections 4.3 ‘Contraindications’ and 4.5 ‘Interaction 
with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction’ of the SmPC to include information about 
this pharmacokinetic interaction and contraindicate the use of alfuzosin.  
Interaction with colchicine 
Based on theoretical considerations, colchicine concentrations may increase upon co-administration 
with TPV and low dose RTV. 
Therefore, the MAH proposed to update sections 4.4 ‘Special warnings and precautions for use’ and 4.5 
‘Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction’ of the SmPC with additional 
information concerning concomitant use of colchicine and recommend a reduced dosing when co-
administered with TPV/r. 
Interaction with salmeterol 
With regards to salmeterol, the combination may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse 
events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations and sinus tachycardia. 
Therefore, the MAH proposed to update section 4.4 ‘Special warnings and precautions for use’ and 4.5 
‘Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction’ of the SmPC to include a 
statement that concomitant administration with salmeterol is not recommended. 
Interaction with bosentan 
Bosentan is an endothelin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Bosentan is metabolised by and is also an inducer of CYP2C9 and 3A4. Based on 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 7/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
theoretical considerations, bosentan concentrations may increase upon co-administration with TPV and 
low dose RTV. The MAH proposed to update section 4.5 ‘Interaction with other medicinal products and 
other forms of interaction’ of the SmPC to recommend a reduced dosing when co-administered with 
TPV/r. 
Discussion 
With regards to interactions between TPV/r and VAL, the MAH conclusion and proposed update of the 
product information is considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Regarding interactions with RAL, the MAH concluded ‘raltegravir concentrations were decreased when 
administered with TPV/r but this did not result in a substantial change in the AUC. Therefore it is 
concluded that TPV-RTV may be co administered with RAL without dose adjustment’. However, the 
conclusion of the authors of the publication mentions ‘In conclusion, multiple doses of TPV-RTV 
decreased the RAL C12, although AUC0–12 and Cmax were not substantially affected. Favourable 
efficacy data collected in phase III substantiate that TPV-RTV may be coadministered with RAL without 
a dose adjustment’.  Therefore, the CHMP recommended a different wording from the one proposed by 
the MAH to be included in the SmPC for sake of accuracy (please refer to the below section on changes 
to the product information). In addition, when applicable, the CHMP requested the MAH to reflect the 
changes in relevant PK parameters with arrows and as geometric mean change (%), according to 
annexe A of the EMA Guideline on the clinical development of medicinal products for the treatment of 
HIV infection. 
Considering that the use of PDE-5 inhibitors in general (out of pulmonary hypertension) leads to 
caution in dose initiation, the CHMP considered appropriate to indicate that no dose can be 
recommended with Aptivus boosted with low dose of ritonavir. However, the CHMP recommended the 
additional paragraph should not be limited to sildenafil.  
The MAH’s proposal relative to alfuzocin was considered acceptable by CHMP. 
The MAH’s proposal for a reduced posology of colchicine when co-administered with tipranavir/ritonavir 
was based on the use of 0.6 mg colchicine-containing tablets. However, in Europe authorised 
formulations may vary across member states and could for example contain 1 mg of colchicine. 
However, beyond these dosage considerations, it appears that clinically severe interactions are more 
and more involving colchicine. The mechanism goes probably through P-gp and possibly also involves 
CYP3A4. Therefore, the CHMP recommended that concomitant administration should be not 
recommended, knowing that in some very rare cases (periodic disease), colchicine may have to be 
given the life long. In most cases, the concomitant use with TPV/r, and more generally with all PIs, 
should be strongly discouraged. 
With regards to interaction with salmeterol, although the safety margin of salmeterol appears quite 
high, the CHMP considered appropriate that the coadministration of TPV/r with salmeterol should be 
discouraged. 
The CHMP also considered that the proposal of a reduced dosing for bosentan in case of co-
administration with APT/r was not substantiated. First of all, the MAH should refer to the statement 
included in the EU SmPC for Tracleer (bosentan) which gives the results of an interaction study in 
healthy volunteers co-administered with LPV/r and Tracleer. Initial plasma through concentration of 
bosentan was increased by 48-fold. However, the SmPC does not recommend reducing the dose of 
bosentan. Moreover, the MAH did not discuss to what extent this results could be extrapolated to drug-
drug interaction between tipranavir boosted (TPV/rtv) and bosentan, due to the complicated 
metabolism of TPV. At last, the possibility of additive hepatotoxicity of bosentan as well as that of 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 8/12
 
 
 
 
 
TPV/rtv is an issue of particular concern and warrants a more discouraging statement, i.e. a not 
recommended combination, as stated in the Tracleer SmPC for another hepatotoxic antiretroviral agent 
(e.g. nevirapine). Consequently, the MAH was requested to revisit the proposed statement by stating 
that “due to a marked hepatotoxicity of bosentan that could cumulate with TPV/rtv liver toxicity, this 
combination is not recommended”. 
Changes to the product information 
In accordance with the above discussion, the Aptivus product information is updated as follows 
(addition underlined). 
Section 4.3 ‘Contraindications’ 
‘… 
Also contraindicated is the use of the alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonist alfuzosin, and sildenafil when 
used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
…’ 
Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings and precautions for use’ 
‘Colchicine:  
The administration of colchicine and APTIVUS, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is not 
recommended. (see section 4.5). 
Salmeterol: 
Concomitant use of salmeterol and APTIVUS, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is not 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
Bosentan:  
Due to the marked hepatotoxicity of bosentan and the potential for increasing the liver toxicity 
associated with APTIVUS,co-administered with low dose ritonavir, this combination is not 
recommended.’ 
Section 4.5 ‘Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction’ 
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors 
Raltegravir 400 mg BID  
Raltegravir Cmax ↔ 
Raltegravir AUC 0-12↔ 
Raltegravir C12: ↓ 45% 
No particular dose adjustment is 
recommended. 
Despite an almost half reduction of 
C12, previous clinical studies with 
this combination did not evidence 
an impaired outcome.  
The mechanism of action is thought 
to be induction of 
glucuronosyltransferase by 
tipranavir/r. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 9/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-gouts 
Colchicine 
The administration of APTIVUS with 
low dose ritonavir and colchicine is 
not recommended. 
Based on theoretical considerations, 
colchicine concentrations may 
increase upon co-administration 
with tipranavir and low dose 
ritonavir. 
Colchicine is a substrate of CYP3A4 
and P-gp (an intestinal efflux 
transporter). 
Endothelin receptor antagonists 
Bosentan 
Based on theoretical 
considerations, bosentan 
concentrations may increase 
upon co-administration with 
tipranavir and low dose 
ritonavir. 
Co-administration of bosentan 
and APTIVUS with low dose 
ritonavir is not recommended. 
(see section 4.4) 
Inhaled beta agonists 
Salmeterol 
Inhibition of CYP 3A4 by 
tipranavir/r 
The concurrent administration of 
tipranavir and low dose ritonavir 
may result in increased risk of 
cardiovascular adverse events 
associated with salmeterol, 
including QT prolongation, 
palpitations and sinus tachycardia. 
Inhibition of CYP 3A4 by 
tipranavir/r. 
Concurrent administration of 
APTIVUS, co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, is not recommended. 
Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors 
Sildenafil 
Vardenafil 
No interaction study 
performed 
Co-administration of tipranavir and 
low dose ritonavir with PDE5 
inhibitors is expected to 
substantially increase PDE5 
concentrations and may result in an 
increase in PDE5 inhibitor-
associated adverse events including 
hypotension, visual changes and 
priapism. 
CYP 3A4 inhibition by tipranavir/ r 
Tadalafil 10 mg QD 
Tadalafil first-dose Cmax ↓ 22%  
Tadalafil first-dose AUC ↑ 133%  
CYP 3A4 inhibition and induction by 
tipranavir/r 
Tadalafil steady-state Cmax ↓ 30% 
Tadalafil steady-state AUC ↔   
Particular caution should be used 
when prescribing the 
phosphodiesterase (PDE5) inhibitors 
sildenafil or vardenafil in patients 
receiving APTIVUS, co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir. 
A safe and effective dose has not 
been established when used with 
APTIVUS, co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir. There is increased 
potential for PDE5 inhibitor-
associated adverse events (which 
include visual disturbances, 
hypotension, prolonged erection, 
and syncope). 
It is recommended to prescribe 
tadalafil after at least 7 days of 
APTIVUS with ritonavir dosing. 
A safe and effective dose has not 
been established when used with 
APTIVUS, co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir. There is increased 
potential for PDE5 inhibitor-
associated adverse events (which 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 10/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No clinically significant change is 
observed in tipranavir PK 
parameters. 
include visual disturbances, 
hypotension, prolonged erection, 
and syncope). 
Nucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitors 
Valaciclovir 500 mg single 
dose 
Co-administration of valaciclovir, 
tipranavir and low dose ritonavir 
was not associated with clinically 
relevant pharmacokinetic effects. 
Valaciclovir and APTIVUS with low 
dose ritonavir, may be co-
administered without dose 
adjustment. 
Alpha 1-adrenoreceptor antagonists 
Tipranavir: ↔ 
Valaciclovir: ↔ 
Alfuzosin 
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of tipranavir with 
low dose ritonavir and alfuzosin 
results in increased alfuzosin 
concentrations and may result in 
hypotension. 
CYP 3A4 inhibition by tipranavir/r 
The concomitant use of APTIVUS, 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir, with alfuzosin is 
contraindicated.  
Package Leaflet 
‘ Do NOT take APTIVUS 
if you are currently taking products containing: 
- alfuzosin and sildenafil (when used to treat a rare blood vessel disorder characterized by increased 
pressure in the pulmonary artery).’ 
The following medications are not recommended: 
- salmeterol (used to achieve long-term asthma control, bronchospasm prevention with COPD). 
- colchicine (used to treat gout flares)  
- bosentan (used to treat pulmonary artery hypertension).’ 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to introduce minor linguistic changes to the French, Greek, 
Italian, Portuguese, Finnish, German, Hungarian, Spanish and English annexes and to update the 
details of the Spanish local representative in the package leaflet.  
Annex II has also been updated according to the latest QRD recommendations.  
A sentence about elderly patients was deleted from the package leaflet of Aptivus oral solution 
presentation as it was added by mistake during the renewal phase. 
The CHMP endorsed these product information updates. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 11/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Conclusion 
On 19 May 2011, the CHMP considered this group of Type II variations to be acceptable and agreed on 
the amendments to be introduced in the SmPC, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
EMA/567400/2011  
Page 12/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
