SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimated that there were at least 40 million people worldwide 
with Human Immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in 2004, and that 6 million needed treatment.  
Current treatment options consist of four different mechanistic classes of compounds:  
•  NRTIs  (nucleoside/nucleotide  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors)  inhibiting  the  reverse 
transcriptase (RT) of HIV by structural similarity with the substrate of RT. 
•  NNRTIs 
(non-nucleoside 
reverse 
transcriptase 
inhibitors) 
inhibiting 
the 
reverse 
transcriptase of HIV without being nucleosides analogues. 
•  PIs (protease inhibitors) inhibiting the HIV protease which is an enzyme required for the 
assembly and release of mature HIV particles from the cell after the replication cycle. 
•  Entry inhibitors: only one representative of fusion inhibitors, which inhibits fusion of the 
HIV with CD4+ cells, thus infection of cells is currently approved (enfuvirtide). 
Medicinal  products  containing  one  or  more  of  these  agents  are  required  for  building  combination 
antiretroviral therapies (CARTs). The choice of the combination regimens depends on the status of the 
patient, particularly in terms of plasma viral load (HIV RNA), CD4 cell counts, previous treatment(s), 
prior relapse and intolerance to treatment. 
The  long-term  use  of  all  these  products  is,  however,  limited  by  the  emergence  of  resistance,  by 
potential  toxicity  and  in  some  cases  by  inconvenient  dosing  schedules  or  formulations.  Further 
therapeutic agents are therefore needed, particularly in patients who have failed their therapy. 
APTIVUS  which  contains  tipranavir,  a  non-peptidic  protease  inhibitor  has  been  developed  for 
treatment-experienced  patients  who  have  HIV-1  strains  with  PI  resistance  associated  mutations 
(PRAMs).  A  so-called  stand  alone  application  has  been  submitted  for  registration.  APTIVUS  is 
available as 250 mg soft capsules. The recommended dose is 500 mg to be co-administered with low 
dose of ritonavir (200 mg as pharmacokinetic enhancer) twice daily. 
The approved indication is:  
is 
low  dose  ritonavir, 
“APTIVUS,  co-administered  with 
indicated  for  combination 
antiretroviral  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection  in  highly  pre-treated  adult  patients  with  virus 
resistant to multiple protease inhibitors.  
This indication is based on the results of two phase III studies, performed in highly pre-treated 
patients  (median  number  of  12  prior  antiretroviral  agents)  with  virus  resistant  to  protease 
inhibitors  (see  details  of  resistance  profile  of  patients’  HIV  at  baseline  in  section  5.1  of  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics). 
In  deciding  to  initiate  treatment  with  APTIVUS,  co-administered  with  low  dose  ritonavir, 
careful consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the 
patterns of mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when 
available) and treatment history should guide the use of APTIVUS.” 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
APTIVUS is presented in the form of gelatine soft capsules containing 250 mg of tipranavir as active 
substance.  Other  ingredients  are  macrogolglycerol  ricinoleate,  ethanol,  mono/diglycerides  of 
caprylic/capric  acid,  propylene  glycol,  purified  water,  trometamol,  propyl  gallate,  gelatine,  red  iron 
oxide,  titanium  dioxide,  sorbitol  special-glycerin  blend  (d-sorbitol,  1,4  sorbitan,  mannitol  and 
glycerin) and black printing ink.  
The capsules are packed in HDPE bottles with child resistant closure. 
1/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance  
Tipranavir  which  has  the  chemical  name  N-[3-[(1R)-1-[(5,6-dihydro-4-hydroxy-2-oxo-6(R)-(2-
phenylethyl)-6-propyl-2H-pyran-3-yl]propyl]phenyl]-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinesulfonamide  is  a 
white to off-white to slightly yellow poorly crystalline solid. Its solubility in water is very low and pH 
dependent but it is highly soluble in various organic solvents and surfactants. 
The chemical structure of tipranavir is well characterised. The absolute stereochemistry of tipranavir 
has been determined and the configuration of the stereocenters was confirmed to be 1R, 6R. 
Tipranavir is a poorly crystalline substance. A single polymorphic form of tipranavir has been used for 
all development work and is the proposed commercial form of the drug substance. 
• 
Manufacture 
The  commercial  process  is  carried  out  using  a  three-step  synthesis  starting  from  three  key  starting 
materials. 
Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance.  The 
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, clarity of solution, colour of solution, 
identification (IR, HPLC), assay (HPLC, 98.0-102.0%), impurities (HPLC), stereoisomeric impurities 
(CE),  residual  solvents  (GC),  organic  volatile  impurities  (GC),  water  content,  sulphated  ash,  heavy 
metals, sulphate content. 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were  found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  
Batch analysis data of a number of batches of active substance are provided. The results are within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  studies  were  conducted  according  to  ICH  conditions.  Three  full  scale  production  batches 
were  stored  for  24  months  under  long-term  storage  conditions  (25°C/60%  RH),  12  months  at 
intermediate  conditions  (30°C/70%  RH)  and  for  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75% 
RH). The stability samples  were packaged in a  container  closure system that  mimics the  one  which 
will be used for the commercial drug substance. The parameters tested were appearance, clarity of the 
solution,  colour  of  the  solution,  identification  (IR,  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC), 
stereoisomeric impurities (CE), water content, X-Ray powder diffraction.  
Tipranavir  was  also  exposed  to  various  stress  conditions,  i.e.  exposure  in  the  solid  state  to  elevated 
temperature under both uncontrolled humidity and high humidity, and to light irradiation; exposure in 
aqueous  solution  to  elevated  temperature  and  different  pH  values,  and  to  strongly  oxidizing 
conditions. The parameters tested were impurities (HPLC) and assay (HPLC). 
The proposed retest period and storage conditions are justified based on the stability results. 
Finished Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  physicochemical  and  biopharmaceutical  properties  of  tipranavir,  coupled  with  the  clinical 
requirement  of a  high  dose (1000 mg per day), precluded the  development  of a  conventional  dosage 
2/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
form.  A  self-emulsifying  drug  delivery  system  (SEDDS)  in  a  soft  gelatin  capsule  was  chosen  for 
development  to  overcome  the  dissolution  rate  limited  absorption  of  the  tipranavir  drug  substance, 
since  the  drug  is  dissolved  in  the  SEDDS  vehicle.  Other  approaches  were  also  evaluated  early  in 
development,  but  these  approaches  were  inferior  to  the  SEDDS  formulation  in  terms  of  in vivo 
performance. Upon exposure to the gastro-intestinal tract the drug product capsule shell dissolves, thus 
exposing  the  fill  material  to  the  aqueous  gastro-intestinal  environment.    The  components  of  the  fill 
material spontaneously emulsify upon exposure to water. 
An  oral  solution  was  developed  to  be  used  in  children  and  in  adults  who  could  not  swallow  the 
capsules. The bioequivalence between the capsule and oral solution was not demonstrated. The CHMP 
considered therefore that there was a need to substantiate the interchangeability of the capsule and the 
oral solution to enable proper dosing recommendations, and to ensure adequate efficacy and safety of 
this  pharmaceutical  form  before  a  marketing  authorisation  for  this  pharmaceutical  form  could  be 
granted. 
The selection of excipients and their corresponding levels was based on in vitro dispersion, stability, 
and  in  vivo  bioavailability  studies  using  various  prototype  SEDDS  formulations.  The  selection  and 
optimization  of  individual  components  of  the  proposed  commercial  formulation  were  discussed  in 
detail.  The  chosen  excipients  in  the  capsule  fill  solution  are:  ethanol,  propylene  glycol, 
macrogolglycerol  ricinoleate,  mono/diglycerides  of  caprylic/capric  acid,  trometamol,  purified  water, 
and propyl gallate. The excipients in the capsule shell are: gelatine, red iron oxide (E172), propylene 
glycol,  purified  water,  ‘Sorbitol  special-glycerin  blend’  (D-sorbitol,  1,4  sorbitan,  mannitol  and 
glycerin) and titanium dioxide (E 171) and black printing ink. 
All of the excipients in the capsule fill solution except mono/diglycerides of caprylic/capric acid are 
compendial excipients controlled according to the current monograph in the Ph.Eur. 
The  composition  of  the  finished  product  used  in  clinical  studies  is  identical  to  that  proposed  for 
marketing with the exception of the imprinting of the capsule shell.  
TSE certificate of suitability for gelatin included in capsule shell was provided. 
Tipranavir  capsules  are  packaged  in  HDPE  bottles,  with  a  plastic  child  resistant  closure  and  an 
induction foil seal. Specifications and analytical procedures to control the components of the container 
closure system submitted are satisfactory. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  includes  three  major  operations:  manufacture  of  bulk  fill  solution, 
manufacture of the gel mass, and manufacture of the finished capsules.  
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated by a number of studies for the major steps 
of the manufacturing process in three commercial batches. 
The batch analysis  data show that the soft  capsules  can be  manufactured reproducibly according to 
the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  release  specification  includes  tests  by  validated  methods  for  description  of  the  capsule  shell, 
description  of  capsule  fill,  identification  (HPLC,  UV),  assay  (HPLC,  95.0%-105.0%  claim), 
degradation products (HPLC), dissolution (Ph Eur), uniformity of dosage units (HPLC), water content 
of  capsule  fill,  propyl  gallate  content  of  capsule  fill  (HPLC),  trometamol  content  of  capsule  fill 
(HPLC), microbial limits (Ph.Eur), identification of propyl gallate (HPLC), identification of titanium 
dioxide (Ph Eur) and identification of iron oxide. 
The test and limits of the release and shelf life specification for the finished product are appropriate to 
control the quality of this medicinal product for the intended purpose. 
3/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch data are provided for pilot and production batches and indicate satisfactory uniformity as well as 
compliance with the specification. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability data are available for 6 primary stability batches (clinical batches) stored at the 4°C/NR RH 
up  to  36  months  for  the  first  batch,  up  to  24  months  for  the  second  and  third  batches  and  up  to  18 
months  for  the  last  three  batches.  For  the  accelerated  condition  25°C/60%RH  stability  data  are 
available up to 6 months for all six batches. 
The  following parameters  were tested:  description  of  capsule shell, description  of  capsule  fill,  assay 
(HPLC,  92.0-105.0%),  degradation  products,  dissolution,  water  content,  propyl  gallate  content, 
trometamol content, ethanol content, propylene glycol content and microbial limits. 
The finished product showed to be physically and chemically stable under the refrigerated conditions. 
On the basis of the stability data available, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in 
the SPC are acceptable. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Tipranavir (TPV) is non-peptidic HIV protease inhibitor belonging to the class of 4-hydroxy-5,6-
dihydro-2-pyrone sulfonamides. It has anti-viral activity against HIV-1 and HIV-2.  
The  preclinical  programme  consisted  on  a  wide  range  of  studies  conducted  with  TPV.  In  order  to 
improve its bioavailability, it was decided to co-administer TPV with low dose of ritonavir (RTV), a 
so-called  boosting  regimen.  In  this  regard,  additional  non-clinical  studies  have  been  conducted  to 
investigate pharmacokinetics and toxicology of TPV co-administered with low dose RTV. To further 
improve  the  bioavailability  and  tolerability  of  TPV,  a  soft  gelatin  capsule  SEDDS  (self-emulsifying 
drug delivery system) formulation was developed. The pharmacokinetics and potential toxicity of this 
formulation has been addressed in additional non-clinical studies. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Inhibition of HIV protease in vitro  
In  enzymatic assays, TPV demonstrated potent and selective inhibition  of the  cleavage  of  a peptidic 
substrate by HIV-1 protease with an inhibition constant (Ki) of 8.9 ± 6.8 pM. It was also active against 
HIV-2 protease (Ki <1nM). 
Selectivity  of  TPV  for  the  HIV  protease  was  demonstrated  by  high  Ki  values  against  the  human 
aspertyl proteases pepsin, cathepsin D and cathepsin E (Ki=2, 15 and 9 µM, respectively). 
Antiviral activity in vitro  
The antiviral activity of TPV was assessed in several cell cultures systems and HIV-1 strains. Using 
laboratory strains of HIV and T-lymphocytic cell lines, EC50 values ranged from 0.03 to 0.07µ M (18 
to  42  ng/ml)  and  EC90  values  ranged  from  0.07  to  0.18µ M  (42  to  108ng/ml).  An  average  EC50  of 
0.07µM (42ng/ml) was obtained against 10 randomly selected clinical isolates replicating in primary 
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).  
These active concentrations were below the cellular toxicity concentration range of 7-35 µM 
demonstrated for TPV in a number of cell lines. 
TPV is highly bound to proteins (99.88%) when present in the cell culture medium and 99.97% bound 
to proteins when present in whole human plasma. However, the addition of up to 75% human plasma 
4/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to the cell culture medium resulted only in a 3.75-fold shift (mean value) in antiviral activity compared 
to  conditions  where  no  human  serum  was added. Therefore, the  high level  of protein binding is not 
expected  to  limit  the  in  vivo  antiviral  activity  of  TPV.  According  to  these  data,  the  concentration 
needed to inhibit HIV replication in human blood would be  approximately 3.75-fold  higher than the 
concentration observed to inhibit HIV replication in cell culture, and would range in EC90 from 0.26 to 
0.68µM (157ng/ml –410ng/ml) for most clinical isolates. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
TPV was evaluated for effects on immune function in mice, and slight (25 %) to modest (39 %) effects 
on T-cell activation were observed at an oral dose of 300 mg/kg oral dose.  
In an in vitro receptor-binding screen against a variety of receptor targets, TPV displayed a relatively 
low inhibitory profile against the majority of receptors. One exception is the CCK-A (cholecystokinin-
A) receptor, a peptide known to be involved in the food digestion in the gastroinstestinal tract, where 
TPV was shown to bind with modest affinity of 27% at 0.1 µ m and 82% at 10 µ M. Furthermore, TPV 
also inhibited the CL channel (picrotoxin) at 10 µM by 89 %. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
In a series of in vitro and in vivo safety pharmacology studies assessing effects on a number of organ 
systems,  including  cardiovascular,  central  nervous,  pulmonary,  renal  and  gastrointestinal,  TPV 
showed no effect on the majority of organ functions. In renal studies in rats, TPV administered with 
doses  up  to  625  mg/kg  for  males  and  500  mg/kg  for  females,  elicited  significant  decreases  in  K+ 
excretion and significant increases in Na+  excretion. In  a study in  rats assessing the  gastrointestinal 
function  at  the  same  doses,  TPV  inhibited  gastric  emptying,  significantly  decreased  gastrointestinal 
propulsion, increased gastric fluid volume and decreased fluid acid concentration dose-dependently.  
TPV inhibited HERG channel current in a dose dependent manner with an IC50 of 2.9µM. There was 
no effect observed in the test in guinea pig papillary muscle tissue using doses up to 10 µ M. Similarly 
there were no significant effects on QT prolongation observed in in vivo conscious dog ECG studies. 
All these results suggest that TPV may have little to no pro-arrhythmic effects. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Because TPV will be administered to HIV infected patients as part of a CART regimen, the activity of 
TPV  in  combination  with  other  anti-HIV  agents  was  determined  in  vitro  in  culture.  Synergy  to 
additivity was observed between TPV and zidovudine, whereas synergy was observed between TPV 
and  ritonavir.  For  the  PIs  amprenavir  and  lopinavir  conflicting  results  of  additivity  and  antagonism 
were observed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of TPV were investigated following single and/or repeated dosing in mice, rats, 
dogs,  rabbits  and  monkeys,  using  in  most  of  the  studies  a  basified  aqueous  solution.  Because  in 
clinical  practice  tipranavir  is  to  be  boosted  with  a  low  dose  of  ritonavir,  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
tipranavir co-administered with RTV, was also investigated in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys.  
•  Absorption 
Following intravenous dosing, TPV demonstrated low clearance ranging  from 0.08 l/h/kg in dogs to 
1.15 l/h/kg in mice. The Vss ranged from 0.13 l/kg in dogs to 0.51 l/kg in rats. TPV was eliminated 
rapidly with a terminal t1/2 ranging from 0.93 h in dogs to 5.43 h in rats. Following oral dosing, TPV 
exhibited a mean Tmax ranging from 0.5 to 8 h in all species. In all species a moderate or poor oral 
bioavailability  of  TPV  was  revealed,  due  to  a  lack  of  absorption  and/or  intestinal  metabolism. 
Whereas  the  bioavailability  in  rats  showed  moderately  levels  of  28.0%,  the  bioavailability  in  dogs 
(6.5%  and  7.7%)  and  also  in  mice  (11%)  and  rabbits  (9.9%)  was  minimal.  Food  had  no  significant 
5/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect  on  TPV  oral  bioavailability  in  dogs.  Ritonavir  co-administration  studies  were  performed  to 
investigate the benefit gained by the combination. However the use of different doses of ritonavir for 
oral and intravenous PK of tipranavir does not allow a clear comparison of tipranavir bioavailability 
with or without ritonavir. 
With  RTV  co-administration,  following  intravenous  dosing,  TPV  demonstrated  low  to  moderate 
clearance ranging from 0.0182 l/h/kg in rats to 3.00 l/h/kg in mice. In rats and dogs, co-administration 
of  RTV  resulted  in  a  4-  to  5-fold  decrease  in  clearance  for  TPV,  which  would  be  consistent  with 
inhibition of drug-metabolising enzymes by RTV.  
Following  repeated  daily  dosing  of  TPV  alone,  the  increase  in  TPV  exposure  was  less  than 
proportional to dose and exposure declined in mouse (90 to 99%), rat (30 to 90%), dog, and monkey 
(50 to 75 %). The decline may be attributed to enzyme induction by TPV which was observed in rats 
and dogs.  
Co-administration of RTV increased TPV exposure on day 1 and following repeated dosing. In the rat, 
the RTV co-administration induced an increased of tipranavir bioavailability from 28 to 58.7 %. In the 
dog no clear conclusion could be draw. 
Regarding the absorption, sex differences were noted in mouse and rat studies with greater exposure in 
females compared to males. 
•  Distribution 
The in vitro plasma protein binding of TPV was very high (> 99.9%) in all species including humans, 
with only a slight trend towards saturation over the concentration range of 10 to 100 µm.  
TPV with or without RTV co-administration, distributed primarily in the liver, small intestine, large 
intestine,  kidney  and  lung.  TPV  did  not  cross  the  blood-brain  barrier  and  did  not  readily  partitioning  into  red 
blood cells. 
TPV  oral  bioavailability  was  similar  in  both  pregnant  (10.7%)  and  non-pregnant  rabbits  (9.9%).  In 
lactating  rats  TPV  alone  or  co-administered  with  RTV  was  secreted  in  milk.  TPV  also  crossed  the 
placenta  of  pregnant  rats.  It  did  not  readily  cross  the  blood  brain  barrier  in  both  pregnant  rats  and 
foetus. 
•  Metabolism 
The metabolism of TPV, in the absence of ritonavir was assessed in vitro with hepatic microsomes of 
rat, dog, monkey and human and with hepatocytes. This study demonstrated that the metabolite profile 
was  qualitatively  similar  between  species.  A  number  of  metabolites  were  generated  which  included 
several  mono-hydroxylated  metabolites,  a  glucuronide  conjugate  of  the  parent,  desaturated 
metabolites, and a cleavage product formed via N-S bond cleavage. 
Plasma  samples  from  rat,  dog,  monkey  and  human  dosed  orally  by  TPV  were  analysed  for  the 
presence  of  metabolites.  Two  primary  metabolites  (M3  and  M4),  suggested  to  be  formed  by 
intramolecular  cyclization  of  TPV,  were  identified.  Two  additional  metabolites  (M1  and  M2)  were 
identified as further oxidation products of M3 and M4, respectively. They were only found in monkey 
and human plasma, but not in rat and dog plasma. 
Furthermore, studies in rats and humans dosed by TPV co-administered with RTV were conducted to 
assess  metabolites. The  unchanged TPV  was the predominant  form in plasma (>85.7%). Unchanged 
TPV was also the major form excreted in faeces and urine. Combined levels of excreted metabolites in 
faeces  and  urine  accounted  for  approximately  4.8%  and  7.4%  in  male  and  female  rats.  Only  small 
amounts of a glucuronide were observed in faeces.  
6/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro metabolism studies indicated that CYP3A4 is the predominant CYP isoform involved in TPV 
metabolism in humans. CYP3A isozyme  was also identified in  rat as the predominant CYP isoform 
involved in TPV metabolism. 
Induction of isoforms of CYP450 was investigated in rats and dogs which showed an increase in liver 
weight and in the total P450 content as well as an induction of CYP3A and 2B isozymes in rats and of 
CYP3A12 and 2B11 isozymes in dogs. 
TPV  is  a  substrate  of  Pgp  which  can  be  inhibited  by  RTV  co-administration.  Studies  assessing 
whether tipranavir is an inhibitor or inducer of this transporter are in progress, the results of which will 
be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
In all tested species, excretion of TPV occurs primarily via bile into the faeces with greater than 87% 
of an administered dose excreted into faeces in mice, greater than 75% in rats, greater than 82% in 
rabbits, and greater than 68% in dogs. Enterohepatic recirculation of radioactivity was also observed 
in rats. 
Toxicology 
A  complete  toxicological  programme  has  been  performed  with  tipranavir.  It  included  single  dose 
studies  (mice,  rats  and  dogs),  repeated  dose  studies  (tipranavir  alone  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  and 
tipranavir  +  ritonavir  in  rats  and  dogs),  genotoxicity  and  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity 
studies  (rats  and  rabbits).  Carcinogenicity  studies  with  tipranavir  and  tipranavir  +  ritonavir  are 
ongoing in rats and mice.  
TPV was administered in toxicity studies as either the free acid or the disodium salt. In this report all 
doses administered to animals and the calculated effect levels are expressed as free acid equivalents. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
In  non Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) single  dose oral toxicity studies in  mice, rats and dogs the 
approximate minimum lethal dose of TPV was 3000 mg/kg in mice, 2330 mg/kg in male rats and 1500 
mg/kg  in  female  rats  and  >500  mg/kg  in  dogs.  Common  findings  among  the  species  tested  were 
gastrointestinal symptoms including  emesis, soft stools and/or  diarrhoea. In  rats, slight  elevations  of 
coagulation  parameter  were  noted  in  females.  Despite  the  non-compliance  to  GLP,  the  CHMP 
considered  that  the  need  to  repeat  the  studies  was  superseded  by  the  data  from  the  repeated  dose 
toxicity and the clinical experience. 
•  Repeat-dose toxicity studies 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  of  TPV  has  been  addressed  in  mice  up  to  13  weeks  with  oral  doses  up  to  360 
mg/kg/day, in rats up to 26 weeks with doses up to 400 mg/kg/day and in dogs up to 39 weeks with 
doses  up  to  320  mg/kg/day.  In  addition  repeat-dose  toxicity  of  TPV  co-administered  with  RTV  has 
been performed in rats and dogs in studies up to 26 weeks of duration (with doses up to 1200 mg/320 
mg tipranavir/ritonavir).  
Effects  of  TPV  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  with  TPV  were  observed  primarily  in  the  liver,  the 
gastrointestinal  tract,  the  coagulation  system  and  the  testes.  Additional  organs  that  were  affected 
included  the  thyroid  gland  and  to  a  lesser  extent,  the  adrenal  gland,  kidneys,  spleen,  and  heart.  In 
studies  on  TPV  with  RTV  co-administration  revealed  only  signs  of  toxicity  or  target  organ  effects 
evident  when  each  compound  was  administered  alone  and  did  not  exacerbate  the  toxicity  of  either 
compounds. 
Effects on the gastrointestinal system 
These  included  emesis,  soft  stools,  diarrhoea,  and/or  excessive  salivation  and  were  observed  in  all 
species tested. These GI effects have been judged to reflect local actions as no correlative macroscopic 
or microscopic changes in the GI tract were observed in mice, rats, or dogs. Addition of RTV to TPV 
7/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dosage regimens was without effect on either the incidence or severity of GI effects in rats and dogs. 
These effects resolved spontaneously or disappeared with cessation of TPV administration.  In the rat, 
NOAEL were 20 mg/kg for females and 40 mg/kg for males in the 26-week study, which correspond 
to 0.1 fold the human exposure. In the 39-week study dog, no NOAEL could be established. 
Effects on the liver 
Liver  is  a  target  organ  of  TPV  in  all  species  tested:  rats,  mice  and  dogs.  Hepatic  effects  of  TPV 
common to all species included increased liver weights and hepatocellular hypertrophy.  
Changes  specific  to  rodents  and  noted  at  higher  dose  levels  included  evidence  of  hepatocellular 
degeneration  as  well  as  vacuolation,  necrosis,  and  mineral  deposition  in  mice  and  multinucleated 
hepatocytes  in  rats.  These  findings  were  not  considered  as  direct  effects  of  TPV  on  the  liver. 
Karyomegaly was observed at a low incidence in rats in all TPV/RTV co-administration groups for 26 
weeks. Histologic  changes specific to  dogs included  bile  duct  hyperplasia after TPV administration, 
and gallbladder cystic hyperplasia. This effect was not noted in dogs co-administered TPV and RTV. 
Hepatic effects of TPV were partly reversible.  
Beagle  dogs exposed to TPV or TPV/RTV displayed  mild increases in alkaline phosphatase (AP) at 
high  dose  levels.  There  were  no  other  signs  of  more  severe  histopathology  (biliary  stasis,  increased 
GGT and bilirubin). In contrast, rats exhibited decreased serum AP at higher dose levels in a number 
of studies. Increases in AST and/or ALT were observed minimally or not at all in toxicity studies on 
rats and beagle dogs.  
Most  of  the  hepatic  effects  noted  in  the  liver  in  rodents  could  be  considered  secondary  to  hepatic 
enzyme  induction.  Nonetheless,  hepatic  effects  were  observed  in  all  studies,  in  all  species  and  the 
majority  of  these  effects  appeared  at  exposure  levels  which  are  equivalent  to  of  below  the  human 
exposure and safety margins could not be established.  
Effects on the testes 
Testicular  effects  consisting  of  decreased  weights  and  bilateral  seminiferous  tubule  degeneration 
and/or  atrophy  were  observed  in  a  26-week  TPV/RTV  study  in  rats  at  a  dose  level  of 
1200/320 mg/kg/day  TPV/RTV  and  in  the  39-week  study  in  dogs  after  administration  of 
320 mg/kg/day  TPV  alone.  Further  review  of  these  findings  led  to  the  conclusion  that  the  testicular 
effects were not attributable to tipranavir. 
Effects on the thyroid gland  
Increased thyroid gland weights as well as thyroid follicular hypertrophy were noted regularly in 2 to 
26 week studies performed in rats. In general, increases in thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) as well 
as decreases in triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) were observed, but this was not consistent in 
all studies at all time points measured. Thyroid gland changes in TPV-dosed rodents are considered to 
reflect  a  rodent  specific  increase  in  thyroid  hormone  metabolism  secondary  to  induction  of  hepatic 
drug metabolising enzymes.  
Additional organ effects 
Adrenal gland effects consisted of increased adrenal weights without correlative microscopic changes, 
with  the  exception  of  one  4-week  study  in  mice  where  hypertrophy  of  the  zona  fasciculata  was 
observed  at  the  highest  TPV  and  TPV/RTV  dose  levels.  Based  on  the  high  dose  levels  that  caused 
these findings, the minimal to mild effects noted, and the lack of biologically relevant changes in dogs, 
the effects on the adrenal gland in rodents were attributed to stress, and not to a direct effect of TPV. 
Changes  in  the  kidneys  consisted  of  an  increased  urinary  protein  and  exacerbation  of  chronic 
progressive  nephropathy  (CPN),  a  rodent  specific  spontaneous  change,  in  a  26-week  rat  study. This 
was  accompanied  by  proteinuria  and  increased  kidney  weight.  Systemic  exposure  was  lower  than 
therapeutic exposure in humans. Kidney changes were not noted in any other species, nor in the 26-
8/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
week TPV/RTV in rats. This increased incidence was therefore considered as an exacerbation of CPN 
and does not represent an underlying renal toxicity caused by tipranavir administration. 
Increased  extramedullary  haematopoiesis  was  observed  in  the  spleen  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs.  This 
finding  was judged secondary to the  mildly  reduced  red  blood  cell parameters in  rats and dogs,  and 
haemorrhage observed in the 26-week TPV/RTV rat study. 
Minimal  to  mild  myocardial  degeneration  was  observed  in  one  study  in  mice  when  TPV  was 
administered  by  diet  over  13  weeks.  No  heart  changes  were  observed  in  any  gavage administration 
study  in  mice  up  to  13-weeks,  nor  have  heart  changes  been  seen  in  any  study  in  rats  or  dogs. 
Consequently, the significance of this finding in relation to humans is unclear.  
Lymphocytolysis was also observed. An immunotoxicity study has been conducted in mice treated for 
28 days to TPV/RTV the highest dose being 300/80 mg/kg. TPV/RTV had no effect on the antibody 
response following immunisation with a T-cell dependent antigen. 
Effects on coagulation  
TPV  increased  coagulation  parameters  (i.e.,  prothrombin  time  and  activated  partial  thromboplastin 
time)  in  rats,  mainly  in  males  and  provoked  excessive  haemorrhages.  No  increase  in  coagulation 
parameters was observed in studies in beagle dogs. Given that TPV was synthesised on the structural 
basis  of  coumarin-like  anticoagulant  agents,  the  possibility  of  an  interference  with  vitamin  K 
metabolism  cannot  be  ruled  out.  Further  mechanistic  study  will  be  conducted  to  elucidate  the 
mechanism  of action  of the  anticoagulant  effect  of TPV, the results  of  which  would be provided  as 
part of the follow-measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
•  Genotoxicity/carcinogenicity 
TPV was neither mutagenic nor clastogenic in a battery of in vitro assays (bacterial reverse mutation 
assay, unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes, induction of gene mutation in Chinese hamster 
ovary cells, a chromosome aberration assay in human  peripheral lymphocytes)  as well as an in vivo 
micronucleus assay in  mice  with  oral  dose up to 2600  mg/kg/day. Due to the lack  of toxicokinetics 
data, two additional micronucleus studies were conducted in rats at oral doses up to 1200 mg/kg/day 
which  led  to  exposure  comparable  to  the  one  obtained  in  humans  confirming  the  absence  of 
clastogenicity.  
Two-year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats with TPV are ongoing. Considering that tipranavir 
is intended for heavily pre-treated HIV patients, for whom there is an unmet medical need, the CHMP 
considered  that  the  lack  of  results  should  not  preclude  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation. 
Final  results  will  however  be  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
•  Reproductive and developmental studies 
The reproductive effects of TPV were assessed in standard tests in rats and rabbits. In rats doses of 40, 
400 and 1000 mg/kg/day were administered orally. In the embryotoxicity study in rabbits doses of 75, 
150 and 375 mg/kg/d were used. All doses were divided into two equal doses given 8 hours apart. 
Treatment with TPV did not affect reproductive capacity nor performance in rats at any of the doses 
tested.  
Except  for  hepatomegaly  and/or  increased  liver  weights  which  already  occurred  at  the  lowest  dose 
tested,  maternal toxic  effects  were restricted to  medium and  high  dose  groups  in  rats and  high  dose 
group  in  rabbits.  A  NOAEL  for  developmental  toxicity  has  not  been  established,  as  skeletal 
malformations  were  observed  in  the  offspring  of  all  treatment  groups  in  the  rabbit  study  and  an 
increased  mortality  and  delay  in  reflex  development  occurred  in  the prenatal  and  postnatal  study  in 
rats in all treatment groups, as well. Furthermore, gross and visceral malformations were also observed 
in  high  dose  group  foetuses  in  the  rabbit  study  and  visceral  malformations  in  the  medium  and  high 
dose groups in rats. Because these effects occurred at exposure levels below human exposure levels at 
9/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  recommended  dose  level,  these  malformations  were  further  assessed  and  it  was  concluded  that 
tipranavir did not have any teratogenicity potential. 
In the prenatal and postnatal development studies in rats, mean pup weight was reduced significantly 
at the high dose at the end of lactation.  
No studies in juvenile animals had been conducted. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local irritation studies in rabbits indicated that TPV powder was minimally irritating to the eye and 
mildly irritating to abraded skin with open wounds.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
Impurities present in the proposed acceptance criteria for TPV drug substance and drug product were 
qualified  in  toxicity  studies  investigating  repeat-dose  toxicity,  mutagenicity,  and  clastogenicity.  No 
toxicity signs specific to the presence of impurities was observed in these studies. 
Studies in rats and dogs with the SEDDS bulk fill solution revealed no specific safety concerns for use 
of tipranavir capsules in humans.  
•  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use 
of tipranavir is anticipated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical programme consisted of: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
studies  aiming to  characterise  the pharmacokinetic profile  of tipranavir  following single and 
multiple administration with or without ritonavir; 
three phase II dose ranging studies in treatment experienced patients;  
two open-label, pivotal active-controlled Phase III studies in triple antiretroviral (ARV) class 
experienced patients: RESIST –1 (1182.12) and RESIST-2 (1182.48); 
one  supportive  Phase  II  study  (1182.51)  conducted  in  triple  ARV  class,  dual  PI  regimen-
experienced and multi-PI resistant patients who failed to entry in RESIST studies; 
one  Phase  I/IIa  paediatric  study  (1182.14)  performed  with  a  TPV  oral  solution  in  children 
from 2 to 18 years of age; 
one  rollover  long  term  safety  study  (1182.17)  for  TPV-treated  patients  from  all  trials  and 
comparator PI failure patients from RESIST 1 and RESIST 2 
The applicant claimed that all studies were performed according to Good Clinical Practices. The 
design of the pivotal studies has been discussed in the context of a Scientific Advice.  
At  the  recommended  dose  of  500  mg  to  be  co-administered  with  low  dose  of  ritonavir  (200  mg  as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer) twice daily, the approved indication is:  
10/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“APTIVUS, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for combination 
antiretroviral treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated adult patients with virus 
resistant to multiple protease inhibitors.  
This indication is based on the results of two phase III studies, performed in highly pre-treated 
patients (median number of 12 prior antiretroviral agents) with virus resistant to protease 
inhibitors (see details of resistance profile of patients’ HIV at baseline in section 5.1 of the 
Summary of Product Characteristics). 
In deciding to initiate treatment with APTIVUS, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, 
careful consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the 
patterns of mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when 
available) and treatment history should guide the use of APTIVUS.” 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  tipranavir  was  determined  in  a  series  of  studies  including  in  total 
approximately 650 HIV-negative subjects and approximately 665 HIV-positive patients (including 33 
paediatric patients). 
In addition, a population PK study was submitted, pooling the data from 6 studies (2 in HIV-positive 
patients and 4 HIV-negative subjects). 
Except  for  one  study  on  the  relative  bioavailability  of  the  oral  solution,  all  studies  investigating  the 
pharmacokinetics  of TPV  co-administered  with RTV  were performed  using the  early  capsule  or the 
final SEDDS capsule formulation. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately validated. 
•  Absorption 
Because  TPV  has  a  low  solubility,  no  quantification  of  absolute  absorption  is  available.  Due  to  the 
lack  of  an  adequate  intravenous  formulation,  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  TPV  could  not  be 
investigated.  
TPV  alone:  The  PK  of  TPV  alone  was  investigated  in  early  pilot  studies,  using  early  formulations. 
After single dosing, the apparent terminal TPV half-life was extremely variable, ranging from 2.3 to 
44 hours. Tmax ranged from 1 to 5 hours between dose groups. 
Steady state plasma levels were achieved within 6-10 days of initiating multiple dosing with a half-life 
of  2-4  hours.  Early  pilot  studies  with  TPV  alone  showed  increased  clearance  after  multiple-dose 
resulting  in  a  2-3  fold  decrease  in  AUC,  which  can  be  attributed  to  enzyme  induction  by  TPV. 
Relevant steady state mean trough TPV concentrations > 1µM were observed for dose regimen of 900 
mg t.i.d and higher. 
Booster effect: In  order to  achieve  effective TPV plasma  concentrations and a b.i.d dosing regimen, 
co-administration  of  TPV  with  low  dose  RTV  b.i.d  is  essential.  RTV  acts  by  inhibiting  hepatic 
CYP3A,  the  intestinal  P-glycoprotein  efflux  pump  and  possibly  intestinal  CYP3A  as  well.  Hepatic 
CYP3A activity (as measured by the erythromycin breath test) increased from basal levels following 
administration  of  500  mg  TPV  alone  for  11  days,  thus indicating  CYP3A  enzyme  induction.  When 
low-dose  RTV  is  co-administered,  the  potent  enzyme  inhibition  predominates  and  the  net  effect  on 
CYP 3A is inhibition (% erythromycin metabolised per hour dropped to negligible). RTV was shown 
to  act  as  a  pharmacokinetic  enhancer  of  TPV.  However,  as  a  result  of  enzyme  turnover,  CYP3A 
activity returned to baseline levels by day 3. These data confirmed that TPV and RTV must be taken 
together as recommended in the SPC. 
TPV co-administered with RTV: After single dosing, peak plasma concentrations were reached within 
1 to 5 hours after dose administration depending upon the dosage used.  
With repeated  dosing, TPV plasma  concentrations  were lower than predicted  from single-dose  data. 
Tipranavir induced its own metabolism prior to steady state even in the presence of ritonavir. Steady 
state was attained in most subjects after 7 days of dosing. The median Tmax ranged from 2-3 hours. 
The mean TPV half-lives ranged from 4-5 hours when TPV was given with 200 mg RTV. 
11/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TPV  exhibited  dose-proportional  pharmacokinetics  at  steady  state  between  250  and  750  mg,  when 
boosted by 200 mg RTV. TPV with low dose RTV (500/200 mg b.i.d) for 21 days was associated with 
a 29-fold increase in the  geometric mean morning steady state trough plasma concentrations of TPV 
(compared to TPV 500 mg alone for 11 days). Co-administration of TPV at doses of TPV+ r 500/200 
mg and above (given twice daily) consistently resulted in plasma TPV Cmin above 20 µ M, more than 
10  times  the  protein-adjusted  IC90  for  PI-resistant  viral  isolates  grown  in  vitro.  This  target  trough 
concentration  of  20  µ M  was  arbitrarily  preliminary  set  for  the  dose  selection  as  further  discussed 
under the section “relationship between plasma concentration and antiviral activity”. 
Effect of food on soft capsules formulation  
The influence  of food was assessed in an open label study in healthy volunteers receiving a high fat 
meal after 4 days of bid dosing, and with a light snack after 7 days of bid dosing, with co-administered 
clarithromycin and TPV with RTV as part of an interaction study. Food significantly increased AUC0-
12h by 31% (point estimate of 1.31, confidence interval 1.23 - 1.39) and Cmin by 75% (point estimate 
of 1.75, confidence interval 1.55 - 1.97; n=21 evaluable subjects). It had less effect on Cmax (increase 
by 16% point estimate 1.16, confidence interval 1.09 – 1.24). The design of the study was nonetheless 
open  to  criticism.  Tipranavir  is  markedly  induced  even  in  the  presence  of  ritonavir,  and  the  steady 
state is not reached by Day 5. Hence, it was felt that the comparison of drug exposure between Day 5 
and  Day  8  would  not  capture  the  impact  of  food  on  tipranavir  exposure,  but  rather  the  effect  of 
induction. Nonetheless these limited  data  which suggest  food  may improve the pharmacokinetics  of 
tipranavir, were viewed together with the existing recommendations to take ritonavir with food and the 
fact that tipranavir  was  more likely  given  with  food in the pivotal studies. On this basis,  the CHMP 
agreed to recommend the administration of TPV with low dose of RTV with food while waiting for 
the complementary study to be performed by the applicant, the results of which will be submitted as 
part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation.  
Bioequivalence between oral solution and soft capsules formulation 
An  oral  solution  was  developed  intended  for  use  in  children  and  in  patients  who  cannot  swallow 
capsules.  An  open-label,  randomised,  three  way  crossover  study  has  been  conducted  in  30  healthy 
volunteers  to  determine  the  relative  bioavailability  of  TPV  500  mg  oral  solution  with  RTV  200mg 
compared to TPV 500 mg capsules with RTV 200 mg and to investigate the relative bioavailability of 
TPV 500 mg oral solution with RTV 200mg with food versus without food.  
.  In  the  fasted  state,  no  bioequivalence  between  capsule  and  solution  could  be  concluded.  The 
solution was relevantly supra-bioavailable (37% for AUC and 50% fore Cmax).  
. The oral solution given in fed state was supra-bioavailable (by 30% for AUC and 7% for Cmax) 
than the capsule given in fasted state.  
The CHMP  considered that  waiting  for  further  data to substantiate the interchangeability  of  capsule 
and oral solution to enable proper dosing recommendations, the oral solution was not approvable. 
•  Distribution 
As no intravenous formulation for human use is available, the total volume of distribution is unknown. 
Inside  the  whole  blood  compartment,  plasma  protein  binding  of  TPV  is  high  (>99.9%)  primarily  to 
human serum albumin. 
•  Elimination  
TPV alone is a potent CYP3A4 inducer with significant metabolism in this enzyme system.  
When co-administered with RTV, TPV metabolites were not relevantly  formed due to the inhibitory 
effect of RTV on CYP3A.  
In  plasma,  unchanged  TPV  was  predominant  and  accounted  for  at  least  98.4%  of  the  total  plasma 
radioactivity circulating after dosing. Only a few metabolites were found in plasma, each of them was 
at trace levels (0.2% or less of the plasma radioactivity). 
12/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  total  radioactivity  recovery  was  87.1%  (range  21.3  to  91.2%)  of  administered  dose  (up  to  264 
hours). Most radioactivity was excreted between 24 and 96 hours after dosing.  
Most TPV was excreted in the faeces (median stool recovery was 82.3%).  
The  median  urine  recovery  was  4.4%  (3.6-5.6%)  of  dose.  Nearly  the  entire  administered  dose  was 
excreted unchanged. Less than 5% of the administered  14C-labeled TPV dose was excreted in faeces 
and urine as metabolites. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependency 
No  formal  study  was  conducted  to  investigate  the  dose  proportionality  of  TPV  given  with  200  mg 
RTV. However, the available data showed a nearly proportional performance, at least regarding TPV 
trough plasma concentrations. 
With  respect  to  time-dependency,  a  diurnal  variation  in  plasma  tipranavir  concentrations  at  steady 
state following TPV 500 mg given with 200 mg RTV BID was observed with morning trough values 
being as  much  as 22%  higher than  evening trough  values. This  diurnal pharmacokinetic  variation is 
not expected to be clinically relevant.  
•  Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Considering the small portion of the dose recovered in the urine, no specific study was performed in 
patients  with  renal  impairment.  No  dosage  adjustment  is  considered  necessary  in  these  patients  as 
mentioned in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Hepatic impairment 
An  open-label,  non-randomised  study  has  been  performed  to  investigate  the  influence  of  liver 
impairment on TPV given with 200 mg RTV bid pharmacokinetic parameters in patients with mild to 
moderate  hepatic  impairment  (9  patients  Child  Pugh  classification  A  and  3  patients  Child  Pugh 
classification B, no patients classified as Child Pugh C). 
After multiple dosing in patients with mild hepatic impairment, the exposure (AUC) was 30% and the 
Cmin  84%  higher  than  in  matched  controls  (Cmax  increased  by  14%).  After  single  dosing  in  patients 
with  moderate  hepatic  impairment,  TPV  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were  similar  to  those  in  healthy 
volunteers.  In  view  of  the  limited  data  (not  obtained  at  steady  state),  the  applicant  undertook  to 
conduct  a  study  assessing  multiple  doses  of  TPV  with  RTV  in  subjects  with  moderate  hepatic 
impairment, the results of  which  will be submitted as  part of the  follow-up  measures to be fulfilled 
post-authorisation.  Waiting  for  these  results,  the  CHMP  agreed  to  recommend  caution  when 
administering TPV with low  dose  of RTV in patients with  mild  hepatic impairment, with increased 
monitoring frequency of hepatic tests as reflected in the SPC. 
In  the  absence  of  data,  tipranavir  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  severe  liver  disease. The  same 
recommendation  applies  for  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  for  which  the  data  are 
currently very limited.  
Paediatric population 
A  phase  I/IIa  study  has  been  conducted  in  treatment  naïve  and  experienced  children  using  the  oral 
solution.  Patients  were  stratified  according  to  age  (i.e  2  to  <  6  years,  6  to  <  12  years  and  12  to  18 
years)  and  randomised  into  one  of  the  2  different  dose  regimen:  high  dose  group  (TPV  375  mg/m2 
with RTV 150 mg/m2) and low dose group (TPV 290 mg/m2 with RTV 115mg/m2). Only limited data 
from 37 children were available at the time of the opinion. Out of these 37 children, 33 received TPV 
with RTV for 4 weeks. The mean trough concentration was approximately 30% higher with the higher 
dose as compared to the lower dose. Considering the lack of bioavailability between the oral solution 
and the capsules and the very limited clinical data available, the CHMP agreed that tipranavir should 
13/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not  be  used  in  children.  The  provision  of  the  final  reports  from  this  study  is  part  of  the  follow-up 
measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Influence of Gender, Race, Body weight, Age, HIV status 
No specific PK study  was performed investigating the influence  of  gender, race, weight  and age on 
TPV with RTV PK.  
The  steady-state  PK  of  TPV  was  assessed  in  187  individuals  (67  HIV-negative  and  120  HIV-
positive  subjects)  using  1866  TPV  concentrations  derived  from  4  healthy  volunteer  studies  and  2 
patient studies.  The final nonlinear mixed effects modelling (NONMEM) database consisted of 64.2% 
HIV+ patients, 35.8% HIV- subjects; 79.1% male, 20.9% female; 85% White Caucasians, 11% Black, 
4% other; ranging from 18-73 years and 47-123 kg weight. TPV concentration-time data were fit to a 
1-compartment model with first order absorption described in terms of absorption rate (Ka), apparent 
oral clearance (CL), and volume of distribution (V) parameters.  
Population analysis showed that TPV apparent oral clearance could be significantly affected by HIV-
status (p<0.005). 
As  shown  in  table  1,  the  pharmacokinetics  exposure  was  higher  in  healthy  volunteers  than  in  HIV 
positive patients. 
Table  1:  NONMEM  model-derived  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  female  and  male  HIV+  patients  and  HIV- 
subjects 
HIV+ patients 
HIV- subjects 
Pharmacokinetic parameter* 
Cp0h,12h (µM) 
Cmax (µM) 
Tmax (h) 
AUC0-12h (h•µM) 
Females (n = 14)  Males (n = 106)  Females (n = 25)  Males (n = 42) 
30.94 
92.33 
2.9 
792.8 
43.26 
114.71 
3.0 
1005.3 
31.63 
75.87 
2.9 
681.0 
32.97 
90.08 
2.9 
781.8 
The  analysis  showed  also  that  TPV  apparent  oral  clearance  could  be  significantly  affected  by  body 
weight (p< 0.001). Body weight caused the more prominent linear increase (75.7%) in apparent oral 
clearance. There was no effect of body weight on the volume of distribution of tipranavir. There were 
no or little effects of age or race on the clearance of tipranavir.  
This  analysis  showed  also  that  gender  was  a  significant  covariate  as  it  relates  to  volume  of 
distribution.  Evaluation of trough TPV concentrations (10-14 h post-dose sample window) from the 
RESIST trials panelled by gender showed that females generally had higher tipranavir concentrations 
than  males.  After  4  weeks  of  TPV  +  RTV  500  mg/200  mg  bid  the  median  plasma  though 
M  for  males.  The  PK  difference 
concentration  of  tipranavir  was  43.9 
between females and males seem mainly driven by the weight. The safety and  efficacy of TPV with 
low dose RTV will be further evaluated. 
M  for  females  versus  31.1 
µ
µ
With respect to individual variability, it was relatively low for CL (CV = 32 %) and V (14 %) but 
higher for Ka (53 %). 
No specific dosage adjustment is recommended based on the population PK results.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
TPV is a substrate, an inducer and an inhibitor of CYP3A. When administered with low dose of RTV, 
there is a net inhibition of P450 CYP3A. 
Several studies have been conducted to investigate the interaction profile of TPV with RTV with other 
commonly administered agents, mainly those metabolised via CYP 3A. The majority of these studies 
were performed in healthy volunteers.  
14/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerns were raised in relation to the design of the studies. The steady of tipranavir with ritonavir or 
of the combined medicinal product was not achieved in several studies. In addition a dose of tipranavir 
with  ritonavir  different  from  the  recommended  one  (TPV  +  RTV  500/200  mg  b.i.d)  was  used  in 
several  studies  due  to  a  late  dose  selection  (e.g  TPV  with  RTV  500/100  mg  and  TPV  with  RTV 
750/200 mg b.i.d). In one study (with NRTI and NNRTI compounds) a high dose of TPV with RTV 
1250/100 mg was also used. The CHMP agreed however that the data could be extrapolated for those 
interaction studies having used doses of TPV with RTV that bracket the recommended dose and that 
represent  extremes  capacities  of  hepatic  enzyme  induction  and  inhibition.  The  relevant  information 
resulting from these studies has been reflected in the SPC. 
Interaction with antiretroviral medicinal products 
An open-label, multicentre, multiple dose study was conducted in HIV-1 patients to determine the PK 
effects of 3 doses of TPV with RTV (1250 /100 mg (n=58), 750/100 mg (n=63), 250/200 mg (n=87), 
all b.i.d) on the steady state PK  of 7  nucleoside  and  non-nucleoside  reverse transcriptase inhibitors. 
The results of this study showed: 
Zidovudine and abacavir 
There  was  a  significant  decrease  in  zidovudine  and  abacavir  AUC  (around  35  %  and  40% 
respectively).  The  decrease  was  independent  of  the  tipranavir  dose.  The  mechanism  of  these 
interactions is unknown as well as the  clinical relevance but  further investigation  will be  conducted. 
The concomitant use of zidovudine or abacavir and TPV with RTV is therefore not recommended.  
Didanosine (enteric coated capsule) 
Significant decrease of didanosine exposure (AUC decreased up to 38%) was observed. The clinical 
relevance  of  this  interaction  is  unknown.  Since  this  interaction  might  be  mainly  driven  by  the  food 
effect on didanosine absorption, resulting in a decrease in didanosine exposure, it is recommended to 
separate  didanosine  dose  by  at  least  two  hours  from  the  dose  of  TPV  with  RTV  to  avoid  any 
formulation incompatibilities. 
Lamivudine and stavudine 
The co-administration did not cause a significant change in the AUC of lamivudine or stavudine and 
therefore no dosage adjustment is warranted.  
Nevirapine and efavirenz 
TPV  with  RTV  decreased  the  AUC  and  Cmin  of  nevirapine  by  approximately  10%.  Nevirapine 
decreased tipranavir AUC by 15% and decreases the Cmin by less than 5%. 
TPV  with  RTV  had  no  significant  impact  on  the  AUC  and  Cmin  of  efavirenz  meanwhile  efavirenz, 
when  co-administered  with  TPV  with  RTV 750 mg/200 mg reduced tipranavir Cmin by 36 % after  a 
single dose. After five days of dosing the tipranavir Cmin returned to normal. With 500 mg/100 mg the 
initial reduction was 77 % and did not return to normal after five days. A concern was raised since the 
steady  state  plasma  PK  of  TPV  with  RTV  was  not  measured  in  the  absence  of  the  interacting 
compound  thus  preventing  a  direct  comparison  to  quantify  the  effect  of  steady  state  of  interacting 
compound  on  the  TPV  with  RTV  steady  state  PK.  No  definitive  recommendations  can  therefore  be 
drawn.  Caution  should  therefore  be  exercised  when  co-administered  and  the  applicant  undertook  to 
conduct further studies to assess the potential interaction with efavirenz, the results of which will be 
submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be provided post-authorisation. 
Tenofovir 
In a study in healthy volunteers, where patients received either TPV with RTV 500/100 mg or 750/200 
mg  with  a  single  300  mg  doses  tenofovir,  TPV  with  RTV  decreased  the  tenofovir  Cmax  in  a  dose 
dependent manner (decreased by 38% with high dose and 23% with lower dose) but had no effect on 
the  extent  of  tenofovir  AUC.  Although  this  study  was  not  conducted  at  steady  state  no  major 
differences  in  the  results  are  expected  for  these  substances  not  metabolised  by  the  CYP3A4.  No 
dosage adjustment of tenofovir is therefore warranted.  
15/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protease inhibitors  
An  open-label,  randomised,  4  parallel-group,  multiple  dose,  multicentre  study  was  conducted  to 
determine the change in Cmin (at 12h) from week 2 (average of day 7 and 14) to week 4 (average of 
day 21 and 28) for the RTV-boosted saquinavir, amprenavir, lopinavir regimens following the addition 
of  TPV  with  RTV  500/100  mg  b.i.d.  on  day  14  in  highly  treatment  experienced  HIV-1  infected 
patients.  
The  trough  levels,  the  Cmax  and  AUC  were  substantially  reduced  in  the  second  PI  groups  after 
addition of TPV with RTV: 
- For the patients on lopinavir/ritonavir there was a 55% decrease in AUC and 47% in Cmax.  
- For the patients on amprenavir boosted there was a 44% decrease in AUC and 39% in Cmax.   
- For the patients on saquinavir boosted there was a 76% decrease in AUC and 70% in Cmax. 
The  addition  of  TPV  with  RTV  led  also  to  a  reduction  of  systemic  RTV  concentrations  in  the  dual 
boosted periods. Therefore the concomitant administration of TPV with RTV with lopinavir/ritonavir, 
amprenavir or saquinavir boosted regimen, is not recommended, due to the major risk of lost efficacy 
of  these  protease  inhibitors.    If  the  combination  is  unavoidable,  the  SPC  encourages  monitoring 
protease inhibitors plasmatic level.  
No interaction data are currently available with other boosted PIs. 
Given the potential interest of dual boosted PIs in salvage therapy, the applicant undertook to further 
explore dose adjustment with boosted PIs. 
Interaction with other substances: 
Antacids 
When TPV with RTV (500/200 mg bid)  was co-administered with an antacid, the TPV AUC, Cmax 
and  C12h  were  reduced  by  25-29%.  Therefore,  the  co-administration  of  TPV  with  RTV  and  the 
antacid should be separated for at least 2 hours.    
Atorvastatin 
In healthy volunteers, TPV with RTV (500/200 mg bid) at steady state increased the AUC of a single 
dose of 40 mg atorvastatin by approximately 9-fold and reduced the AUC of metabolites ortho-OH- 
and para-OH-atorvastatin by 89% and 82%, respectively. There are no data on the effects after 
multiple dosing of atorvastatin (i.e. when both treatments being in steady state), therefore the 
combination is not recommended. In addition the applicant undertook to perform an interaction study 
with pravastatin, the results of which will be submitted post-authorisation. 
Clarithromycin 
The effects of steady state TPV with RTV 500/200 mg b.i.d. on the steady state PK of clarithromycin 
500  mg  b.i.d.  (and  its  major  metabolite  14-hydroxy-clarithromycin)  were  evaluated  in  healthy 
volunteers.  TPV  with  RTV  increased  markedly  the  Cmin  of  clarithromycin  by  68%  and  to  a  lesser 
extent the AUC (by 19%). There was no substantial change in Cmax.  
The  formation  of  the  active  metabolite  14-OH-clarithromycin  was  nearly  inhibited  during  co-
administration  of  steady  state  TPV  with  RTV.  The  concentrations  and  exposure  of  14-OH 
clarithromycin were reduced by more than 95%. The decrease in 14-OH-clarithromycin is of unknown 
clinical significance because the majority of pathogens susceptible to this compound are susceptible to 
clarithromycin itself, except in case of Haemophilus influenzae, where the 14-OH metabolite is twice 
as active as the parent compound. A warning has therefore been included in the SPC. 
Ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone 
In healthy volunteers, the addition of TPV with RTV b.i.d. (500/100 mg or 750/200 mg) to EE/NET 
reduced the total EE AUC by 43-48% and the EE Cmax by approximately 50%. There was an increase 
of 13-27% NET  AUC but this was  considered  of  minor  clinical relevance. The  co-administration  of 
oestrogen based oral contraceptives with TPV with RTV is therefore not warranted because of reduced 
efficacy of the contraceptives. 
16/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fluconazole 
The effects of single-dose and steady state TPV with RTV 500/200 mg b.i.d. on the steady state PK of 
fluconazole 100 mg qd (200 mg loading dose) were evaluated in healthy volunteers. 
The PK of fluconazole was not relevantly altered by TPV with RTV. Fluconazole increases the AUC 
and  Cmin  of  TPV  by  56%  and  104%,  respectively,  when  compared  to  historical  data.  No  dosage 
adjustments are recommended.  
Loperamide 
Steady state TPV with RTV 750/200 mg b.i.d, reduced loperamide AUC by 51% and Cmax by 61% 
and  N-demethyl-loperamide  AUC  by  77%  and  Cmax  by  79%.  There  was  also  a  reduction  of  TPV 
Cmin (26%) by loperamide. The clinical relevance of these changes is unknown.  
Rifabutin 
TPV with RTV (500/200 mg b.i.d) at steady state caused a substantial and clinically relevant increase 
in  AUC  of  rifabutin  of  3-fold  and  of  21-fold  of  the  rifabutin  desacetyl  metabolite.  The  Cmax  of 
rifabutin  increased  4.3-fold.  Although  this  study  only  investigated  the  effect  of  a  single  dose  of 
rifabutin, a reduction of rifabutin dosing regimen is warranted as well as a monitoring of patients for 
emergence of adverse reactions associated with rifabutin. 
The  interaction  profile  of  TPV  with  RTV  is  complex.  The  applicant  undertook  to  complete  the 
interaction  programme,  including  interaction  studies  with  methadone,  buprenorphine,  omeprazole  as 
well as in-vitro investigations of the potential induction of TPV with RTV and the role of the organic 
anion transporter peptide (OATP2). 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
As already mentioned in section 3.3 of this document, tipranavir is a non-peptidic protease inhibitor 
which has been shown to be active against HIV-1. 
•  Primary and secondary pharmacology 
Resistance in vitro 
In  vitro  resistance studies  conducted  with  wild type  virus over a period  of 9  month (70 passages) in 
culture showed that resistance to TPV developed in very small incremental steps. The first mutations 
selected during these experiments were mutations L33F and I84V, at passage 16, followed by K45I, 
I13V,  V32I,  V82L,  M36I,  A71V,  L10F  and  I54T/V.  The  mutations  L33F  and  I84V  (among  the 
exclusion  criteria in  clinical studies)  gave  very little level  of resistance to TPV. The  mutation V82L 
alone  did  not  confer  increased  resistance  to  TPV  greater  than  1.6-fold.  With  increasing  number  of 
mutations an increase in resistance to TPV developed, showing a 16-fold resistance in the presence of 
6 mutations raising to about 69-fold with 10 mutations. These TPV-resistant viruses, however, had a 
decreased ability to replicate in vitro.  
The susceptibility of 2 clones containing 6 and 10 mutations respectively, was decreased (≥10-fold) to 
all  protease  inhibitors  tested  except  for  saquinavir  for  which  no  more  than  2.5  fold  resistance  was 
observed. 
TPV maintained activity (<4 fold resistance) against the majority of HIV isolates showing decreased 
susceptibility  to  amprenavir  (81%  remain  susceptible  to  TPV),  atazanavir  (2/2  isolates  remain 
susceptible to TPV), indinavir (88% remain susceptible to TPV, nevirapine (88% susceptible to TPV), 
lopinavir (83% susceptible to TPV), RTV (89% susceptible to TPV) and saquinavir (88% susceptible 
to TPV). 2.3% of all isolates showed > 10-fold resistance to TPV.  
The TPV IC90 for multidrug resistant clinical HIV isolates ranged from 0.31-0.86µ M, and most 
clinical HIV isolates had a serum-adjusted IC90 of ≤2µM. 
17/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resistance in vivo 
The applicant provided a comprehensive review of resistance data obtained from Phase II and III 
clinical trials. 
Long-term resistance  data are available  for 276 patients treated  with TPV  with RTV in the Phase II 
and  III  clinical  trials.   Paired  baseline  and  on-treatment  genotypic  and  phenotypic  resistance  testing 
results  were  evaluated  for  HIV-1  isolates  from  145  patients  in  Phase  II  Trials  1182.2,  1182.4  and 
1182.52  (including  the  rollover  BI  1182.17),  72  patients  in  BI  1182.51  and  59  patients  in  RESIST 
trials. The median time on treatment of samples included in these analyses was as follows:  54 weeks 
for  Phase  II  trials  (range  7-202  weeks),  19  weeks  for  BI  1182.51  in  more  PI  experienced  patients 
(range 6-25 weeks) and 48 weeks for Phase III RESIST trials (range 8-64 weeks). 
Overall, the analyses of Phase II demonstrated that the predominant emerging mutations with 
tipranavir used in HAART regimens are L33F/I, V82T/L and I84V.   
The data from the RESIST trials were in line with the virological analysis from Phase II studies since 
the  most  common  protease  mutations  emerging  after  TPV  exposure  in  patients  with  PI-experienced 
patients were consistently L33F/I/V, I84V and V82L/T. These mutations, and in particular mutations 
at  codons  33  and  84,  impact  on  tipranavir  susceptibility,  the  mutation  at  codon  90  alone  having  a 
limited impact on phenotypic susceptibility to TPV/r.  
Data on resistance from RESIST trials, the design of which is presented later in this document, have 
also been submitted. 
The susceptibility  of  virus in the 59 patients  with  virologic  failure  was  evaluated  for other  available 
protease inhibitors  for both baseline and  on-treatment samples.  The  median  IC50 showed  resistance 
for all PIs except TPV at baseline.  Although the median IC50 for lopinavir, amprenavir and indinavir 
decreased between baseline and last determination on treatment (LPV 101.8 to 63.2; APV 21.5 to 14.8 
and  IDV  52.2  to  46.8)  these  PIs  remained  resistant.    There  were  small  increases  in  IC50  between 
baseline  and  last  determination  for  atazanavir  (73.6  to  76.6)  and  for  nelfinavir  (44.6  to  48.9).  
Saquinavir  was  the  only  protease  inhibitor  with  a  large  increase  in  IC50  between  baseline  and  last 
determination (37.7 to 50.2).  
Fifty-two patients in the RESIST trials had paired baseline and on-treatment phenotypic susceptibility 
results (Table 2).  The  median baseline TPV phenotype  for  all patients  in this analysis  was 1.8-fold 
IC50, and the median on-treatment phenotype was 12.8. The baseline TPV IC50 of these patients was 
higher  than  the  whole  RESIST  population  tested.    If  expressed  as  proportion  of  isolates  resistant  to 
TPV,  defined  as  >  4-fold  IC50,  only  20%  of  patients  were  resistant  at  baseline  where  as  85%  of 
patients were resistant on treatment.   
Table 2 Comparison of baseline to on-treatment phenotype:  Virologic Failure Patients of RESIST Trials 
Last on-treatment phenotype (FC in IC50) 
<1 
n/N (%) 
0 
4/34 (11.8) 
0 
Baseline  phenotype  (FC 
in IC50) 
<1 
1 to <4 
>=4 
>=4 
n/N (%) 
8/8 (100.0) 
29/34 (85.3) 
7/10 (70.0) 
1 to <4 
n/N (%) 
0 
1/34 (2.9) 
3/10 (30.0) 
From  the  combined  RESIST  studies,  the  baseline  genotypic  testing  demonstrated  that  the  most 
common key codon mutation pattern observed in patients in the two arms were:   
•  82 and 90, n=252;  
•  84 and 90, n=209;  
•  84 only, n=184;  
•  33 and 82, n=170;  
•  90 only, n=97.   
The baseline combination of 82 and 84 was observed in 62 patients. 
18/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Looking at the primary endpoint treatment response (confirmed 1 log drop in viral load from baseline) 
for  a  variety  of  patterns  in  baseline  key  codon  mutations,  the  data  demonstrated  that  a  higher 
proportion of patients had a 1 log drop treatment response if they received tipranavir for nearly all of 
the possible patterns of baseline mutations at positions 33, 82, 84 or 90, as compared with the CPI/r 
arm.  Overall, there  were 53.2%  of patients included  in the RESIST trials who  had  at least one key 
mutation at codon 90. Whereas the mutation at codon 90 (which was part of the inclusion criteria) has 
been later shown not to have any significant influence on TPV susceptibility, the same does not apply 
for other PIs (especially mutation L90M that impact most of PIs).  This is also true for the mutation 82 
(especially V82A; the mutation V82L that impact TPV susceptibility was only present in less than 2% 
of patients at baseline).  
Overall  the  resistance  data  are  difficult  to  interpret.  Resistance  data  from  further  ongoing  clinical 
studies will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation to further 
substantiate the resistance profile for TPV. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and antiviral activity 
The target trough concentration of 20µ M was preliminary set on in vitro results for the dose selecting 
process.  
In the dose ranging studies, relationship of change in viral load from baseline to day 14 and tipranavir 
trough plasma concentration showed that in the TPV with RTV 500/200 group, 15.8% of patients 
(n=10) with Ctrough < 20µ M and 36.5% of patients (n=23) with Ctrough > 20µM had a limited viral 
load reduction between 0 and –1 log at day 14. 
In the main RESIST studies, described later in the document there seemed to be a relationship between 
TPV  trough  concentrations  and  virologic  response.  In  patients  with  Ctrough  levels  of  19.5  to  26.5 
µMol, the median change in viral load at week 24 was log - 0.38 copies/ml compared to log – 1.69 to 
–2.09 in patients with Ctrough levels > 39 µMol.  
Relationship between inhibitory quotient (IQ) and virologic response:  
The  virologic  response  to  TPV/r  therapy  has  been  evaluated  with  respect  to  baseline  IQ  in  highly 
treatment-experienced patients. The IQ was determined by dividing the TPV trough concentrations by 
the protein-adjusted IC50 of the baseline virus. In the phase II trial, an IQ of approximately >30 to 100 
appeared a limit to achieve a significant viral load decrease  > -1 log10 in each treatment arms after 2 
weeks of functional monotherapy. In the Resist trials a number of patients had a TPV IQ  < 30 (n=87, 
26.4% of patients) and < 60 (n=145, 44% of patients). Modest median VL reduction at Week 24 for 
patients with a TPV IQ of below 60 was observed (between –0.04 and –0.62 log10 copies/ml). Patients 
with  TPV  IQ  >  60  obtained  greater  median  viral 
load  reduction  between  –1.24  and  
–2.12 log10 copies/ml.  
Due to the high variability in TPV Ctrough, the applicant undertook to further explore PK/PD 
relationship to eventually define thresholds of TPV concentrations above or below which excess 
toxicity or inadequate virologic response is seen. 
Clinical efficacy  
Dose ranging studies 
An overview of the studies is provided in table 3. 
19/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population and Number 
Treatment Dose (mg) 
Table 3: overview of dose ranging studies 
Protocol 
Number 
1182.2 
Title of the study and Study 
Design 
Open-label Randomised 
exploratory study of TPV and 
RTV in combination with one 
NRTI and efavirenz in multiple 
protease inhibitor-experienced 
HIV patients 
Planned to 24 weeks but further 
extended to 48 and 96 weeks 
1182.3 
Open-label, randomised, 
parallel group study  
HIV-1 infected patients  
CD4 ≥ 50 cells/mm3 
VL ≥ 5000 copies/ml 
PI experienced (who have 
failed ≥ 2 PI regimens) 
NNRTI naïve 
41 enrolled 
19 in the low dose TPV  
22 in the high dose TPV 
29 completed 48 weeks 
HIV-1 infected patients 
treatment naïve 
31 randomised  
1182.4 
1182.52 
An open-label, randomised 
study comparing combination 
therapy (TPV and RTV versus 
SQV and RTV) used with two 
NRTIs in single PI-experienced 
HIV-1 patients 
Planned to 24 weeks but further 
extended to 48 and 96 weeks 
Double-blind randomised, dose 
optimization trial of 3 doses of 
TPV boosted with low dose RTV 
in multiple antiretroviral 
experienced subjects. 
On study entry, patients 
discontinued their original PI(s) 
and began oral administration of 
1 of the 3 blinded regimens while 
continuing to take their other 
background ARV medications 
After 2 weeks of therapy with 
their original ARV background 
therapy and TPV/r, patients had 
their background ARV optimised 
based on the genotypic resistance 
testing performed at screening 
and on their history of ARV use 
HIV-1 infected patients  
VL ≥ 1000 copies/ml 
No limit of CD4 
With clinical failure while on 
the current PI-containing 
regimen of IDV, NFV or APV 
received since at least 6 months 
81 randomised (1:1:1) 
79 treated 
Treatment-experienced  HIV-1 
infected patients with screening 
genotypic resistance indicating: 
- at least 1 primary PI mutation 
at  sites  30N,  46I,  46L,  48V, 
50V,  82A,  82L,  82T,  84Vor  
90M, and 
-  no  more  than  1  PI  mutations 
of  82L, 82T, 84V or 90M 
>  3  months  of  experience  with 
NRTIs,  NNRTIs  and  PIs  with 
current 
ARV 
PI-based 
medication for at least 3 months 
prior  to  randomization,  >  3 
months  of  experience  with  at 
least on other PI-based regimen 
HIV-1 viral load > 1 000 
copies/ml, any CD4+ cell count 
TPV Hard filled capsules (HFC) 300mg 
initially  and  changed  to  TPV  SEDDS 
formulation 250mg  
TPV doses 
HFC dose: 1200mg or 2400mg BID 
SEDDS dose: 500mg or 1000mg BID 
RTV doses: 
100mg or 200 mg BID with TPV HFC 
100mg BID taken with TPV SEDDS  
3 treatment arms: 
TPV 1200 mg 
TPV/RTV 300/200mg  
TPV/RTV 1200/200mg  
3 treatment arms: 
TPV/RTV 500/100mg BID + 2NRTIs 
TPV/RTV 1250/100mg BID + 2 NRTIs 
SQV/RTV 400/400mg BID + 2 NRTIS 
TPV SEDDS formulation soft elastic 
capsules 250mg 
Group A: TPV 500mg BID + RTV 
100mg BID  
Group B:  TPV 500mg BID + RTV 
200mg BID  
Group C: TPV 750mg BID + RTV 
200mg BID  
Planned: 165 
Entered/randomized: 216 (Group A: 73, 
Group B: 72, Group C: 71) 
Analysed: 200 (Group A: 69, Group B: 
67, Group C: 64) 
The first three studies were considered of limited interest due to issues related to their design (e.g no 
use of the final SEDDS formulation of tipranavir, ritonavir dose different from the final recommended 
one and no use of the claimed dose of TPV with RTV of 500/200mg BID). They confirmed that TVP  
had an “intrinsic” antiretroviral activity, and that TPV should be boosted by RTV.  
In study 1182.52 although the primary endpoint (viral load reduction of 
 0.5log 10 copies/ml after 
two weeks of TPV with RTV therapy) was not statistically significant between the three treatment 
arms, a trend towards a dose-effect could be observed (table 4).  
≥
20/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Table 4: Median log10 change from baseline in Viral load after 2 weeks of TPV/r Treatment (Full analysis set) 
Type of 
Analysis 
TPV/r 500/100 
TPV/r 500/200 
TPV/r 750/200 
All TPV/r 
Treatment Group 
N 
Median 
N 
Median 
N 
Median 
73 
70 
LOCF 
OT 
a Chi-square statistic and significance value from the Kruskal-Wallis test with 2 df. 
b p<0.0001 based on the Wilcoxon signed rank test. 
LOCF: last observation carried forward; OT: on treatment 
72 
68 
71 
66 
-0.93b 
-0.96b 
-0.85b 
-0.87b 
-1.18b 
-1.19b 
χ
 2 (p-value)a 
2.913 (0.2330) 
2.863 (0.2389) 
In terms of viral load change from baseline over time, efficacy results were better with higher doses. 
At week 24, the proportion of patients with > 1 log10 reduction from baseline and the proportion of 
patients with viral load < 400 copies/ml were higher in the TPV with RTV 500 mg/200mg and 
750mg/200 mg than 500/100 mg: 40.3 % versus 45.1 % versus 31.5 % respectively and 37.5 % versus 
38 % versus 32.9 % respectively. More patients discontinued prematurally the TPV + r 750/200 mg 
arm (31 %) and 500 mg/100 mg (21.9 %) compared to 500 mg/200 mg (16.7 %). The most common 
reason for discontinuation in each arm was adverse events (6.8 % versus 9.7 % versus 15.5 % in 500 
mg/100, 500 mg/200 and 750 mg/200 mg respectively). In terms of safety, there was a trend towards 
of a dose relationship of hepatic enzyme elevations: Grade 3-4 ALT and GGT 4/73 (5.5%) and 12 
(16.4%) in TPV/r 500/100 versus  8/72 (11.1%) and 23 (31.9%) in TPV/r 500/200 versus 15/71 
(21.1%) and 25 (35.2%) in TPV/r 750/200. 
Considering on one hand the efficacy results that show close virologic responses between the 
intermediate (500/200) and the highest dose (750/200) and on the other hand the hepatic events as a 
concerning limiting factor for increasing the dose, the intermediate 500/200 mg dose was selected for 
the main clinical studies.  
Clinical efficacy 
Two main ongoing, open label, randomised, comparative safety and efficacy studies of TPV boosted 
with low dose RTV in relation to genotypically-defined protease inhibitor/ritonavir (PI/RTV) in 
multiple antiretroviral experienced patients have been conducted: 
- RESIST 1 (USA, Canada, Australia involving about 600 patients)  
- RESIST 2 (European and Latin America involving about 800 patients)  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
≥
For both studies, the inclusion criteria consist of highly treatment-experienced HIV-1 infected males 
18 years of age with screening genotypic resistance report indicating both of the 
or females patients 
following:  
•  at least one primary PI mutation at sites 30N, 46I/L, 48V, 50V, 82A/F/L/T, 84V or  90M, and 
•  no more than two protease mutations on codons 33, 82, 84 or 90 
Patients had to have at least 3 consecutive months experience taking ARVs from each of the classes 
of NRTI(s), NNRTI(s) and PI(s) with: 
•  at least 2-PI based regimens, one of which must be the current regimen, and 
•  current PI-based ARV medication for at least 3 months prior to randomisation 
Patients are failing their current PI regimen (HIV-1 viral load > 1 000 copies/ml at screening, any 
CD4+ cell count). An amendment was made to the protocol to allow with highly protease inhibitor 
resistant virus to be treated with a ritonavir boosted PI-based regimen. 
Treatments 
21/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eligible patients had to be randomly assigned to one of the following open-label treatments: 
•  TPV 500mg b.i.d + RTV 200mg b.i.d + concomitant optimised background ARV medications 
(OBR).  TPV  with  RTV  may  be  taken  with  or  without  food.  Intake  with  food  was 
recommended to reduce the potential for nausea and vomiting.  
Boosted comparator protease inhibitor (CPI/r) arm: pre-selected PI + low-dose RTV (100 or 200mg, 
according to product label or published recommendations) + concomitant OBR. The boosted PI could 
be chosen between amprenavir (APV/r 600/100 mg bid), indinavir (IDV/r 800/100 mg bid), lopinavir 
(LPV/r 400/100 mg bid) or saquinavir (SQV/r 1000/100 mg bid or 800/200 mg bid). 
Before  randomisation,  the  comparator  protease  inhibitor  (CPI)  was  to  be  selected  by  the  physician 
based  on  genotyping  results.  A  panel  of  HIV-resistance  consultants  was  put  in  place  to  review 
comparator  PI  selections  made  by  the  investigator  (selected  cases  included  those  in  which  an 
investigator wished to recommend a PI that did not represent the best option according to the genotype 
report). Whereas a systematic consultation of the experts panel could have conferred robustness in the 
efficacy demonstration, this consultation occurred only for planned selected cases. 
The randomisation was stratified both by pre-selected boosted PI (lopinavir, indinavir, saquinavir or 
amprenavir) and by use of enfuvirtide. 
Patients in the comparator arm who had a lack of initial virologic response or a confirmed virologic 
failure at any time after the first 8 weeks of the both studies were offered the opportunity to enrol into 
long-term safety trial 1182.17. CPI/r patients who experienced intolerance or toxicity were not to be 
offered enrolment into trial 1182.17, but rather were to be provided a standard of care therapy. 
Objectives 
The  objective  of  the  RESIST  studies  (randomised  evaluation  of  strategic  intervention  in  multi-drug 
resistant  patients  with  tipranavir)  was  to  demonstrate  the safety  and  efficacy  of  TPV  with  low  dose 
RTV versus an active control arm in highly experienced HIV-1 infected patients. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients at 48 weeks with treatment response and the time 
to treatment failure through 48 weeks. 
Treatment response was defined as a confirmed virologic response, defined as two  consecutive viral 
load (VL) measurements > 1 log10 below baseline without prior: 
• 
two  consecutive  VL  measurement  <  1  log10  below  baseline  after  two  consecutive  VL 
measurements > 1 log10 below baseline 
•  One VL of < 1 log10 below baseline followed by permanent discontinuation of the study drug or 
lost to follow-up after two consecutive VL measurements > 1 log10 below baseline 
Time to treatment failure was defined as Day 0 for patients who never achieved a confirmed virologic 
response before one of the following events: 
•  Death 
•  Permanent discontinuation of the study drug or lost to follow-up 
•  Introduction of a new ARV drug to the regimen (if it was not solely related to either toxicity or 
intolerance that was clearly attributable to a background drug, but not the study drug or its 
control), or 
•  Last available visit 
Time to  treatment  failure  for patients who achieved a confirmed  virologic  response  was the earliest 
time of: 
•  Death 
•  Permanent Discontinuation of the study drug or lost to follow-up 
22/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Introduction of a new ARV drug to the regimen (if it was not solely related to either toxicity or 
intolerance that was clearly attributable to a background drug, but not the study drug or its 
control), 
•  First occurrence of a confirmed virologic failure, or 
•  One VL measurement that represented a drop of < 1 log10 below baseline, followed by permanent 
discontinuation of the study drug or loss to follow-up. 
Secondary endpoints included: 
-  for  RESIST 1,  the  proportion  of  patients  at  24  weeks  with  >  1  log10  reduction  in  two  consecutive 
viral load measurements without prior evidence of treatment failure. 
- for RESIST 2, the proportion of patients with a virologic response at 16 weeks (
in viral load without prior evidence of treatment failure + Treatment response (TR) at Week 24. 
 1.0 log10 reduction 
≥
Among  other  secondary  endpoints  (RESIST  1  and  2)  there  were  the  change  from  baseline  in  viral 
load,  proportion  of  treatment  and  virologic  responders  at  each  study  visit,  change  from  baseline  in 
CD4+  and  CD8+  cell  counts,  genotypic  and  phenotypic  resistance  patterns,  assessment  of  patient 
adherence, evaluation of the inhibitory quotient (IQ) = PI Cmin/IC50, evaluation of safety and quality of 
life. 
Sample size and statistical methods 
For RESIST 1, sample size estimations were performed for both primary efficacy endpoints to detect 
superiority. Since treatment response at 24 weeks requires a larger sample size than treatment failure 
at  48  weeks, treatment  response  at  week  24  was  used  to  determine  the  sample  size.  The  study  was 
sized to detect a 15% superiority of treatment with TPV/r in treatment response at 24 weeks with 90% 
power using a Fisher’s exact test at the 5% level of significance (two-sided). This procedure resulted 
in a sample size of 247 patients per treatment group if the response rate was 35% in the control group 
and 50% in the TPV/r group.  
For RESIST 2, sample size estimations were performed for both primary efficacy endpoints to detect 
superiority. Since virologic response at Week 16 requires a higher sample size than treatment failure at 
48 weeks, virologic response at Week 16 was used to determine the sample size. 
The study was sized to detect a 10% superiority of TPV with RTV in virologic response at 16 weeks 
with  a  power  of  80%  using  a  Fisher’s  exact  test.  This  procedure  resulted  in  a  sample  size  of  404 
patients per group if the virologic response rate is 40% in the control group and 50% in the TPV with 
RTV group. 
The following patient populations were analysed: 
- Full Analysis Set (FAS): all randomised patients who received at least one dose of study medication  
- Per Protocol Set (PPS): all patients in the FAS without relevant protocol deviations 
-  All  randomised  patients  (ARP):  all  randomised  patients  including  those  that  did  not  take  study 
medication 
The key efficacy analyses were based on FAS. The PPS at week 24 (=PPS24) and ARP sets were used 
for the sensitivity analysis. 
The  following  types  of  analyses  were  used  to  assess  the  impact  of  missing  data  on  the  efficacy 
endpoints of the study: 
On treatment (OT): Missing values were not replaced or imputed.  
Non-completers  considered  failure  (NCF):  This  analysis,  where  missing  values  due  to  premature 
discontinuations of the study drug were replaced by failures, was only applicable for binary endpoints. 
Isolated  missing  values,  which  were  preceded  and  followed  by  a  response,  were  considered  a 
response. If the last visit to be included in the analysis (Week 24 for interim analysis) was missing, the 
23/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient had a response at the last available visit and the patient did not have an indication of premature 
drug  or  trial  discontinuation,  the  response  was  carried  forward  to  the  last  visit  (Week  24  for  the 
interim analysis). All other missing data were considered failures. 
Last observation carried forward (LOCF): Missing values during the course of study treatment were 
replaced by the  measurement  for the preceding visit. If the  first on-treatment visit measurement  was 
missing, the calculated baseline value was used for the visit. 
Non-completers considered censored (NCC). For time-to-event data, patients who discontinued before 
the event was observed were considered censored. 
There were a number of amendments made to the protocols. Among them, there was the possibility to 
add  enfuvirtide,  however  the  stratification  by  enfuvirtide  was  mandatory  given  the  potential 
deleterious impact in the interpretation of the results. 
RESULTS 
At the time of submission of the application, only the results on the secondary endpoints are available 
(i.e. proportion of patients with > 1 log10 reduction in viral load from baseline without prior evidence 
of treatment failure at medium term of 24 weeks for RESIST 1 and 16 weeks for RESIST 2 (24 weeks 
data  are  only  available  for  approximately  60%  of  the  randomised  population  in  the  latter  study). 
Updated  efficacy  data  were  submitted  during  the  procedure,  including  24  weeks  for  the  whole 
population for the RESIST-2. These studies are ongoing and are expected to provide long term data up 
to 96 weeks. 
Data  from  both  RESIST  trials  are  suitable  for  pooling  since  the  designs  of  the  two  studies  were 
essentially identical except for the timing  of interim trial endpoints, larger sample size in RESIST 2, 
and genotypic resistance testing used (logistic issue related to geographical location of laboratories). 
Participant disposition 
Table 5: RESIST 1: Disposition of all patients – FAS (as randomised) 
Screened / enrolled 
Randomised / entered 
Not treated 
Total treated 
Disposition through Week 8a 
Treatment group/No (%) of patients 
CPI/r 
-- 
317 
8 
TPV/r 
-- 
313 
2 
311  
(100.0) 
309 
(100.0) 
620 
Total 
1406 
630 
10 
(100.0) 
Not prematurely discontinued before or at week 8 
Prematurely discontinued before or at Week 8b 
  Missing or incomplete data at Week 8 
Disposition through Week 24c 
Not prematurely discontinued before or at Week 24 
Prematurely discontinued before or at Week 24d 
  Missing or incomplete data at Week 24 
286  
 25   
0 
263 
48 
0 
(92.0) 
(8.0) 
(84.6) 
(15.4) 
275 
33 
1 
151 
139 
19 
(89.0) 
(10.7) 
(0.3) 
(48.9) 
(45.0) 
(6.1) 
561 
58 
1 
414 
187 
19 
(90.5) 
(9.4) 
(0.2) 
(66.8) 
(30.2) 
(3.1) 
a 
b 
c 
d 
The Week 8 visit (Visit 6) was nominally at Day 56 but a time window of 43 to 84 days was used 
Prematurely discontinued from trial medication # 84 days after start of study treatment 
The week 24 visit ((Visit 8) was nominally at Day 168 but a time window of 141 to 196 days was used 
Prematurely discontinued from trial medication # 196 days after start of study treatment 
  The imbalance between the rate of premature treatment discontinuation before or at week 24 is mainly 
driven by the lack of initial virologic response (1 in TPV/r group versus 31 in CPI/r) and confirmed 
virologic failure (4 in TPV/r versus 71 in comparator group).  
  Treatment discontinuation in relation to adverse events was more frequent in TPV arm (3 versus 1). 
As  for RESIST 1, a significant  number of patients (10.6%) in RESIST 2 had  missing  or incomplete 
data at Week 24  with a  noticeable  difference between the two treatment groups (17.9% in the CPI/r 
arm versus 3.3% in the TPV/r arm).  
24/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: RESIST 2 - Disposition of patients who reached or could have reached 24 weeks in trial, FAS24 (as 
randomised) 
Treatment group/No (%) of patients 
TPV/r 
COI/r 
274 
3 
271 (100.0) 
Screened / enrolled 
Randomised / entered 
Not treated 
Total treated 
Disposition through week 8a: 
• Prematurely discontinued before or at week 8 
Disposition through week 16b: 
• Not prematurely discontinued before or at week 16 
• Prematurely discontinued before or at week 16 
• Missing or incomplete data at week 16 
Disposition through week 24c: 
• Not prematurely discontinued before or at week 24 
212 (78.2) 
• Prematurely discontinued before or at week 24 
50 (18.5) 
9 (3.3) 
• Missing or incomplete data at week 24 
a : Termination of trial medication <= 84 days after start of treatment 
b : Termination of trial medication <= 140 days after start of treatment 
c : Termination of trial medication <= 196 days after start of treatment 
233 (86.0) 
38 (14.0) 
0 (0.0) 
17 (6.3) 
Total 
1903 
547 
8 
539 (100.0) 
273 
5 
268 (100.0) 
29 (10.8) 
46 (8.5) 
175 (65.3) 
93 (34.7) 
0 (0.0) 
96 (35.8) 
124 (46.3) 
48 (17.9) 
408 (75.7) 
131 (24.3) 
0 (0.0) 
308 (57.1) 
174 (32.3) 
57 (10.6) 
Again,  there  was an imbalance between the rate  of premature treatment  discontinuation between the 
two treatment arms, mainly due to a higher proportion of patients who had a lack of initial response or 
a confirmed virologic failure at week 16 in the comparator arm compared to the TPV/r arm (4.9% vs 
0.9% and 15.4% vs 0.5% respectively). 
Baseline data 
Patients included in RESIST 1 study had a mean age of 45.1 years old, were mainly male (91.1%) and 
White Caucasians (76.8%). Only 55 females were included in the study (8.9%). 
In RESIST 2 study, the mean age of patients was 42.7 years. Most patients were male (82.9% of male 
versus 17.1% of females) and White Caucasians (73.8%). 
The  baseline  disease  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  the  two  treatment  groups.    As 
highlighted in the table 7, these studies have enrolled heavily pre-treated patients at an advanced stage 
of the disease. 
Table 7: HIV baseline characteristics – FAS (as randomised) 
RESIST-1 
620 
4.83 
4.74 
0.70 
2.01-6.31 
123 
Nb of patients (total treated) 
Baseline HIV RNA [log10 
copies/ml] Median 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
Baseline CD4+ count 
[cells/mm3] 
Median 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
CDC class C 
CD4 < 200 mm3 
CD4 < 50 mm3 
VL > 100 000 copies/ml 
Median number of prior 
Antiretroviral agent received 
(range) 
* data on only on 539 randomised and treated patients (FASS24) 
164 
162 
1-1184 
57.1% 
67.1% 
30% 
40% 
12 (3-20) 
RESIST-2 
863 
4.77 
4.73 
0.67 
2.97-6.76 
185.0 
218.0 
180.0 
2-1893 
55.8%* 
52.4% 
16% 
34.5% 
12 (3-18) 
25/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Overall,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  HBV  or  HCV  co-infection  was  limited  (around  10%).  A 
higher proportion of CPI/r patients (7.4%) versus TPV/r patients (3.2%) had a hepatitis C co-infection. 
The population enrolled was to match precise inclusion criteria as regards the genotypic resistance at 
baseline (at least  one PRAM at sites 30N, 46I/L, 48V, 50V, 82A/F/L/T, 84V, or 90M, and  no  more 
than two protease mutations on codons 33, 82, 84 or 90).  In practice, a heterogeneous population of 
heavily pre-treated patients has been enrolled (with or without any “genotypically available” boosted 
PI remaining). The distribution of protease gene mutations was balanced between the two study arms. 
Most patients included in both arms had the combination of the two key mutation at codons 82 and 90 
(n=177 in TPV/r arm and  n=158 in CPI/r arm i.e 22.5% of included patients) or the  combination  of 
mutations at codons 84 and 90 (n=112 in TPV/r arm and n=136 in CPI/r arm i.e 16.7% of patients). 
Overall, they were 53.2% of patients included in the RESIST trials who had at least one key mutation 
at codon 90. Whereas the mutation at codon 90 (which was part of the inclusion criteria) has been later 
shown not to have any significant influence on TPV susceptibility, the same does not apply for other 
PIs  (especially  mutation  L90M  that  impact  most  of  PIs).    This  is  also  true  for  the  mutation  82 
(especially V82A; the mutation V82L that impact TPV susceptibility was only present in less than 2% 
of patients at baseline).  
With  respect  to  the  selected  PI,  in  RESIST-1,  a  majority  of  patients  were  treated  by  LPV  in  the 
comparator  arm  (61%)  followed  by  SQV  (20.6  %)  and  APV  (14  %).  IDV  was  rarely  pre-selected 
(4.4%). The same pattern was noted in RESIST-2, with the most frequent pre-selected PIs were LPV 
(38%) and APV (39.5%). IDV was rarely pre-selected (2.6%). 
Conduct of the studies 
•  Use of enfuvirtide 
In RESIST 1, 224 patients out of 620 (36.1%) received enfuvirtide as concomitant medication  (most 
patients (53.1%) were in the TPV/r arm compared to 46.8% of patients in the CPI/r arm). 
In RESIST-2, there  was a lower proportion of patients than in  RESIST 1 who received  concomitant 
enfuvirtide. Only 62 patients (11.5%) were treated with enfuvirtide (14.3% in the TPV/r arm and 8.5% 
in the CPI/r arm).   
•  Relevant protocol deviations 
A  high  number  of  protocol  deviations  (around  40  %)  was  identified.    The  list  of  common  protocol 
deviations is shown in table 8. 
 Table 8: Patients with Relevant Protocol Deviations for Categories for RESIST  & RESIST 2 Studies Combined 
RESIST 1 & RESIST 2 
Protocol Deviation 
No  protease  gene  mutations  at  codons  30N,  46I/L,  48V,  50V, 
82A/F/L/T, 84V or 90M 
More than two protease gene mutation at codons 33, 82, 84, 90 
Less than 2 PIs or  less than 3 months  of treatment on historical HIV-1 
therapy page 
No NRTI with> 1 month duration or no NNRTI > 1 month duration 
Screening viral load <1000 
ALT or AST > DAIDS grade 1 
Triglycerides at screening > DAIDS grade 2 
No new or recycled ARV in OBR 
Wrong Enfuvirtide stratum 
OBR of less than 2 non PI ARV drugs 
TPV/r 
CPI/r 
11 
20 
9 
9 
7 
18 
43 
50 
21 
7 
4 
21 
11 
10 
2 
23 
60 
53 
28 
7 
26/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  concern  raised  with  respect  to  the  protocol  deviation  “wrong  enfuvirtide  strata”  is  further 
discussed under the outcome section. 
switch after 8 weeks 
- 
During the first 8 weeks patients were not allowed to roll over into trial 1182.17, and during the first 8 
weeks  roughly  90%  of  patients  randomised  in  both  trials  and  both  arms  have  not  had  prematurely 
discontinued the trials.  
Outcomes 
Treatment efficacy outcomes for both studies are displayed in table 9. 
Table 9: Treatment outcome at Week 24 – RESIST trials (FAS [NCF]) 
RESIST 1 
RESIST 2 
Total 
TPV/r 
N   (%) 
CPI/r 
N   (%) 
TPV/r 
N   (%) 
CPI/r 
N   (%) 
TPV/r 
N   (%) 
CPI/r 
N   (%) 
311 (100.0)  309 (100.0)  271 (100.0)  268 (100.0)  582 (100.0)  577 (100.0) 
129 (41.5) 
69 (22.3) 
111 (41.0) 
40 (14.9) 
240 (41.2) 
109 (18.9) 
140 (45.0) 
209 (67.6) 
127 (46.9) 
203 (75.7) 
267 (45.9) 
412 (71.4) 
31 (10.0) 
16 (5.2) 
19 (7.0) 
16 (6.0) 
50 (8.6) 
32 (5.5) 
51 (16.4) 
39 (12.6) 
38 (14.0) 
24 (9.0) 
89 (15.3) 
63 (10.9) 
45 (14.5) 
45 (14.6) 
46 (17.0) 
57 (21.3) 
91 (15.6) 
102 (17.7) 
13 (4.2) 
109 (35.3) 
24 (8.9) 
106 (39.6) 
37 (6.4) 
215 (37.3) 
5 (1.6) 
3 (1.0) 
1 (0.4) 
2 (0.7) 
6 (1.0) 
5 (0.9) 
25 (8.0) 
9 (2.9) 
22 (8.1) 
13 (4.9) 
47 (8.1) 
22 (3.8) 
12 (3.9) 
19 (6.1) 
10 (3.7) 
10 (3.7) 
22 (3.8) 
29 (5.0) 
Total treated 
Treatment 
Week 24 
response 
at 
No  confirmed  1  log10  drop 
from baseline 
1  log10  drop  from  baseline 
without confirmation 
    Rebounda 
Never 
suppressed 
through Week 24 
Drug 
change 
or 
discontinuation  due  to 
virologic failureb 
Deathc 
Study  drug  discontinuation 
due to adverse eventsd 
Study  drug  discontinuation 
due to other reasons 
a  Confirmed loss of virologic response or loss of virologic response and missing confirmatory visit. 
b 
Includes premature discontinuation of the study PI due to virologic failure and the addition of a drug to the background 
regimen  (if  not  introduced  to  replace  a  background  drug  discontinued  due  to  AEs  attributable  to  the  discontinued 
background drug). 
c  Death as primary reason for treatment failure. 
Table 10: Resist-1 Key and sensitivity analysis of treatment response at Week 24 for impact of open-label design 
and handling of missing data: 
Key analysis 
FAS (NCF, as randomised) 
Sensitivity analysis 
PPS24  
(NCF, as randomised) 
FAS (TPV-NCF CPI-NCC, as 
randomised) 
FAS  (NCC, as randomised) 
Confirmed virologic response – 
FAS (OT, as randomised) 
Confirmed virologic response – 
FAS (NCC, as randomised) 
Treatment group 
TPV/r 
n/N (%) 
CPI/r 
n/N (%) 
Treatment differencea 
95% CI 
LL(%)  UL (%) 
Weighted 
Diff. (%) 
129/311 (41.5%) 
69/309 (22.3%) 
18.4%b 
11.4% 
25.3% 
86/191 (45.0%) 
50/193 (25.9%) 
18.5%b 
9.3% 
27.6% 
129/311 (41.5%) 
69/291 (23.7%) 
17.0% 
9.9% 
24.1% 
129/305 (42.3%) 
128/265 (48.3%) 
69/291 (23.7%) 
68/156 (43.6%) 
17.7% 
3.7% 
10.5% 
-5.8% 
24.8% 
13.2% 
129/273 (47.3%) 
69/273 (25.3%) 
20.9% 
13.3% 
28.5% 
a Treatment difference and confidence interval weighted for the size of PI strata and ENF strata 
b  Significant difference between treatment groups at p<0.0001; LL (lower limit) UL (upper limit) 
n= number of responders, N=number of evaluable patients 
27/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The superiority of TPV/r (p<0.001) over the comparator is consistently demonstrated in the sensitivity 
analysis  performed  (excluding  the  On-treatment  analysis  however  the  results  should  be  interpreted 
with particular caution due to a very limited number of patients in the comparator arm). 
This superiority could even be concluded over each of the boosted PI (to the exception of the indinavir 
arm whose sample is far too limited to be satisfactorily analysed). 
Table 11: Resist 2: Analysis of virologic response at week 16 (VR16) and treatment response at week 24 (TR24) 
and sensitivity analysis of VR16 and TR24-(as randomised) 
Treatment group  
TPV/r 
(%) 
n 
N 
n 
CPI/r 
(%) 
N 
Treatment differencea 
95% CI 
Weighted 
Diff.(%) 
LL(%) 
UL(%) 
Key analyses  
- VR16 – FAS (NCF, as 
randomised) 
- TR24 – FASS24 (NCF as 
randomised) 
Sensitivity analyses for 
virologic response at week 16 
VR16 – PPS16 (NCF, as 
randomised) 
- FAS (TPV-NCF CPI-NCC, as 
randomised) 
- FAS (NCC, as randomised) 
- FAS (OT, as randomised) 
Sensitivity analyses for 
treatment response at week 24 
TR24 – PPSS24 (NCF, as 
randomised) 
204 
(46.9) 
435 
91 
(21.3) 
428 
111 
(41.0) 
271 
40 
(14.9) 
268 
(25.0)b 
(25.0) b  
(18.9) 
(31.1) 
(17.8) 
(32.2) 
138  
(48.6) 
284 
62 
(23.4) 
265 
(24.5) b  
(16.8) 
(32.2) 
204 
(46.9) 
435 
89 
(22.5) 
395 
(23.7) 
(17.5) 
(30.0) 
204 
199 
(50.5) 
(51.0) 
404 
390 
89 
87 
(22.5) 
(27.4) 
395 
318 
(27.4) 
(22.8) 
(21.0) 
(15.8) 
(33.8) 
(29.8) 
80 
(44.4) 
180 
31 
(18.6) 
167 
(24.6) b 
(15.4) 
(33.8) 
40 
111 
261 
271 
(41.0) 
(15.3) 
(24.6) 
40 
41 
111 
109 
262 
219 
(42.4) 
(49.8) 
(15.3) 
(32.0) 
- FASS24 (TPV-NCF CPI-
NCC, as randomised 
- FASS24 ( NCC, as 
randomised 
- Confirmed virologic response 
– FASS24 (OT, as randomised) 
- Confirmed virologic response 
– FASS24 (OT, as randomised) 
a 
b 
n= 
N= 
Treatment difference and confidence interval weighted for the size of enfuvirtide and PI strata 
VR16  Unconfirmed virologic response at Week 16 
Treatment difference and confidence interval weighted for the size of enfuvirtide and PI strata 
Significant difference between treatment arms at p <0.001 
Number of responders 
Number of evaluable patients 
(26.1) 
(17.1) 
261 
128 
(17.4) 
(29.3) 
(47.5) 
241 
238 
113 
42 
(17.4) 
(31.9) 
(18.7) 
(6.7) 
(33.4) 
(27.5) 
(21.4) 
(37.2) 
The efficacy results demonstrated the superiority of the TPV with RTV treatment group whatever the 
population  analysis.  Even  in  the  FASS24  on-treatment  analysis,  the  difference  was  statistically 
significant  in  favour  of  the  TPV  with  arm  despite  the  imbalance  on  study  discontinuations  due  to 
virologic failure between both arms. However, this analysis should be interpreted with caution since 
the FASS24 population does not include the total study population (approximately 60% of the study 
population). The results on the whole population are presented in table 12. 
In this study, a slightly higher number of patients in the TPV/r arm received concomitant enfuvirtide 
compared  with patients in the CPI/r arm. This addition  could  have a small impact  favouring TPV/r, 
however,  the  different  sensitivity  analyses  support  that  TPV/r  achieved  better  results  across  all 
efficacy endpoints than CPI/r, regardless of enfuvirtide use.  
At the time of the submission  of the responses to the list of questions, the applicant submitted to the 
CHMP preliminary results at 48 weeks for RESIST 1 and additional 24 weeks for RESIST 2 (Tables 
12 and 13). 
28/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: RESIST 1: primary endpoint efficacy results at weeks 48 
TPV/r 
(%) 
n 
Treatment group 
N 
n 
CPI/r 
(%) 
Treatment difference 
95 % CI 
LL (%)  UL (%) 
p-value 
N 
Weighted 
diff (%) 
74 
130 
311 
103 
309 
17.0 
33.1 
41.8 
23.9 
Key analysis 
FAS (week 
24, NCF, as 
randomised 
FAS (week 
48, NCF, as 
randomised 
Sensitivity analysis 
66 
PPS (week 
48) (NCF, as 
randomised) 
n = number of responders; N= number of evaluable patients; Treatment difference and confidence interval 
weighted for the size of enfuvirtide and PI strata. 
10.3 
10.0 
15.9 
19.7 
35.7 
15.6 
16.8 
23.2 
24.1 
24.2 
193 
309 
185 
311 
6.9 
49 
38 
<.0001 
<.0001 
0.0004 
Table 13: RESIST 2 primary endpoint efficacy results at weeks 24  
Treatment group 
n 
TPV/r 
(%) 
N 
n 
CPI/r 
(%) 
N 
Treatment difference 
95 % CI 
LL (%)  UL (%)  p-value 
Weighted 
diff (%) 
177 
Key analysis 
FAS (week 
24, NCF, as 
randomised 
n = number of responders; N= number of evaluable patients; Treatment difference and confidence interval 
weighted for the size of enfuvirtide and PI strata. 
16.4 
17.8 
40.7 
22.3 
28.1 
428 
435 
76 
<.0001 
The per protocol analyses at 24 weeks for all different subgroup analyses, combining data from both 
studies confirmed the results seen with the full set analysis. 
The analysis of treatment response by enfuvirtide stratum show a higher response rate in the tipranavir 
arm,  with  a  bigger  difference  between  both  arms  in  the  stratum  of  patients  treated  with  enfuvirtide 
(Table 14). 
Table 14: Treatment response at Week 24 by ENF stratum – RESIST trials (PPSS24) 
Enfuvirtide Use 
.      No 
.      Yes 
n = Number of responders; N = Number of evaluable patients 
Treatment Group 
TPV/r 
n 
(%) 
N 
CPI/r 
n 
(%) 
N 
111 
55 
(39.1) 
(63.2) 
284 
87 
61 
20 
(21.1) 
(28.2) 
289 
71 
Among the relevant protocol deviations, the so called “wrong T20 stratum” (prescribers changed their 
mind before and after randomization on the need to add enfuvirtide) was the most concerning. Given 
the  very limited  number  of these  deviations (21 in the TPV/rtv arm  and 28 in the  comparator  arm), 
they were unlikely to have significantly impacted the efficacy demonstration. 
A particular concern emerged that prescribers might have chosen to select a suboptimal management 
of  the  patients  in  the  comparator  arm  so  that  patients  could  benefit  earlier  switch  to  the  TPV  with 
ritonavir arm in the roll-over study 1182.17. This attitude could have biased the demonstration of the 
superiority of TPV with RTV over the comparator arm. To solve this concern the applicant provided 
the  individual  data  of  all  patients  who  have  switched  from  the  RESIST  trials  to  the  rollover  study 
1182.17  together  with  the  analysis  of  the  potential  biases.  The  computerized  checking  of  the  data 
provided re-assurance that sub-optimal therapeutic management in the comparator arm was marginal 
and  therefore  unlikely  to  have  altered  demonstration  of  superiority  of  TPV  with  RTV  over  the 
comparator arm. 
29/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  15  presents  treatment  response  for  the  overall  population  and  detailed  by  PI  strata  for  the 
subgroup of patients with genotypically resistant strain.  
Table 15: treatment response* at week 24 (pooled RESIST-1 and RESIST-2) 
RESIST study 
APTIVUS/RTV 
CPI/RTV** 
p-value 
Overall population 
FAS 
PP 
- with ENF (FAS) 
- without ENF (FAS) 
Genotypically Resistant 
LPV/rtv   
FAS 
PP 
APV/rtv 
FAS 
PP 
SQV/rtv 
FAS 
PP 
IDV/rtv 
FAS 
PP 
n (%) 
240 (41.2) 
166 (44.7) 
92 (58.2) 
148 (34.9) 
69 (36.9) 
46 (39.0) 
48 (42.9) 
37 (45.7) 
30 (52.6) 
18 (51.4) 
8 (61.5) 
4 (66.7) 
N 
582 
371 
158 
424 
187 
118 
112 
81 
57 
35 
13 
6 
n (%) 
109 (18.9) 
81 (22.5) 
33 (25.8) 
76 (16.9) 
29 (14.6) 
20 (16.3) 
21 (17.9) 
14 (18.7) 
9 (17.0) 
3 (12.0) 
1 (6.3) 
1 (7.7) 
N 
577 
360 
128 
449 
199 
123 
117 
75 
53 
25 
16 
13 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0003 
<0.0001 
0.0002 
0.0005 
0.0046 
* Composite endpoint defined as patients with a confirmed 1 log RNA drop from baseline and without evidence of 
treatment failure  
A summary of the secondary endpoints is presented in table 16. 
Table 16: Summary of secondary efficacy endpoints: RESIST –1 and RESIST-2 studies 
Total treated 
VL >= 1 log10 Reduction (NCF) 
VL <400 copies/ml (NCF) 
VL <50 copies/ml (NCF) 
Median  Baseline  VL 
(LOCF) [log10 copies/ml] 
Median  change  CD4+  cell  count 
[cells/mm3] (LOCF) 
change 
* preliminary data at 24 weeks 
RESIST-1 
RESIST-2* 
Total 
TPV/r 
N= 311 
43.4% 
34.7% 
25.1% 
-0.88 
CPI/r 
N=309 
23.3% 
16.5% 
10.0% 
-0.28 
TPV/r 
N=271 
43.9% 
33.6% 
22.5% 
-0.72 
CPI/r 
N=268 
17.2% 
13.1% 
8.6% 
-0.22 
TPV/r 
CPI/r 
N=582  N=577 
20.5% 
43.6% 
14.9% 
34.2% 
9.4% 
23.9% 
-0.25 
-0.80 
36 
6 
31 
1 
34 
4 
The analysis of the resistance data was presented under the pharmacodynamic section of the clinical 
efficacy part of this document. 
Hepatitis co-infected patients 
In view of the very limited number of patients with hepatitis B or C virus co-infection it is not possible 
to draw any firm conclusion. Even if the efficacy data do not raise any signal towards a lower response 
rate, the pronounced hepatotoxicity of the product should be kept in mind and will require particular 
caution in clinical practice as reflected in the SPC. 
Long term data 
The preliminary 48 weeks descriptive data are encouraging as regards the durability of the virological 
response in the TPV with RTV arm. However, the formal 48 week analysis of the combined RESIST 
studies  is  currently  ongoing  and  will  be  submitted  as  specific  obligation  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation.  
30/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric patients  
The data are currently insufficient to demonstrate efficacy in children however the applicant undertook 
to  provide  additional  data  in  this  population  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Supportive study 
The study 1182.51was an open-label, 1:1:1 randomised, parallel-group pharmacokinetics trial of TPV 
with  RTV,  alone  or  in  combination  with  RTV-boosted  saquinavir  (SQV),  amprenavir  (APV),  or 
lopinavir,  plus  an  optimised  background  regimen,  in  multiple  antiretroviral  experienced  patients.  It 
mainly  aimed  at  exploring  the  influence  of  the  co-administration  with  boosted  PIs  on  the  PK 
parameters of tipranavir/ritonavir and reciprocally.  
Overall,  the  patients  were  well-balanced  between  the  treatment  groups  in  terms  of  gender,  race  and 
age. Most patients were male (93.3%) aged between 41 and 55 years of age. As for RESIST studies, 
the target population is at an advanced stage of the disease (60% at CDC stage C). 
The  median  number  of  ARVs  taken  by  the  study  patients  was  overall  equal  to  13  (range  7-19): 
5NRTIs (range 0-3), 2NNRTs (range 0-3) and 5 Pis (range 2-7). 
The tipranavir arm was compared to other boosted PI at week 2. After week 2 tipranavir/ritonavir was 
added to each of the boosted PI arm. 
In the week 2 assessment (i.e. before the addition of the boosted PI to the TPV/r) results favoured the 
TPV/r arm in comparison to other boosted PIs (including LPV/r). This likely reflects that in heavily 
pretreated patients with resistant strain, TPV/r characterised by a limited cross resistance will have a 
better  potential  to  achieve  virological  suppression.  After  week  2,  the  benefit  of  a  dual  ritonavir-
boosted  protease  inhibitor  is  not  clearly  apparent  with  regard  to  the  virologic  response  results. 
However, this has to be analysed in the light of the PK parameters that show a significant interaction 
between tipranavir/ritonavir and the boosted PI (decrease in exposure). 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
More than 4,000 patients have been included in the clinical programme. 
The  number  of  HIV-positive  patients  and  HIV-negative  subjects  exposed  to  at  least  1  dose  of  TPV 
from the 39 trials at the time of the individual trial cut-off dates was 3195 (2430 HIV-positive patients 
and 765 HIV-negative subjects).  
≥
In pharmacological studies, 765 healthy subjects have been exposed to TPV. In clinical studies, 2430 
HIV infected patients received TPV  containing treatment regimen, 761 patients at the recommended 
 96 weeks. 
dose of 500mg/200mg TPV/r bid for more than 24 weeks, 57 for 
More than 60% of the total person  exposure  years in HIV-positive patients (n =1854) occurred with 
the intended market dose of TPV/r 500 mg/200 mg (685.1 of 1101.5 exposure years to TPV). Of the 
685.1  patient  years  of  exposure,  over  40%,  (300.3  years)  are  from  the  RESIST  trials.  Treatment 
exposure  from  the  RESIST  trials  was  approximately  13%  higher  in  the  TPV/r  group  (300.3  years) 
compared with the CPI/r group (264.6 years) up to 24 weeks. 
Overall,  for  HIV-positive  patients,  the  median  age  of  TPV/r  patients  was  43.0  years  (98.5%  were 
between the ages of 18 to 64 years; the majority of the patients (87.4%) were males, White Caucasians 
(80.6%); with a mean baseline HIV RNA level of 4.79 log10 copies/ml, and a mean CD4+ cell count of 
187 cells/mm3. 
 48 weeks and 6 for 
≥
In the update period, 793 HIV-positive patients have been added to the program, predominantly in a 
recently initiated treatment naïve patient trial and the emergency use/expanded access programs. 
In the update period, median duration of exposure to TPV/r increased from 168 days (n = 1854) to 322 
days  (n  =  1870),  and  total  patient  exposure  years  increased  1.6  fold,  from  1102  to  1759  years.  Of 
31/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these,  1,397  HIV-positive  patients  were  treated  with  TPV/r  500  mg/200  mg  BID  for  a  total  of  685 
patient exposure years (PEY); and 55% of these patients were treated for more than 24 weeks, with a 
maximum exposure of more than 5 years. 
From the RESIST trials, all available safety data up to the 30 September 2004 cut-off were included 
and median duration of exposure for TPV/r patients increased 2 fold, from 168 days (n = 746) to 330 
days (n = 748), while that for CPI/r patients increased 1.4 fold, from 124 days (n = 737) to 172 days  
(n = 737). Total patient exposure years increased 2 fold in the TPV/r group, from 300 to 615, and 1.5 
fold  in  the  CPI/r  group,  from  265  to  406.  The  number  of  discontinuations  from  the  CPI/r  arm  of 
RESIST continues to be higher than that of the TPV/r arm. 
In the RESIST trials, patients in  the CPI/r arms  with  documented  evidence  of  virologic  failure  were 
allowed to  discontinue treatment after Week 8 and to  receive TPV/r in the long-term safety rollover 
study, 1182.17. As reported in the SCS, the number of patients continuing treatment was 639 (85.7%) 
of  746  patients  in  the  TPV/r  arm  and  357  (48.4%)  of  737  patients  in  the  CPI/r  arms.  As  of  30 
September 2004, 524 (70.1%) of 748 patients in the TPV/r arm and 231 (31.3%) of 737 patients in the 
CPI/r  arms  were  continuing 
the  update  period,  premature 
discontinuations increased 2 fold in the TPV/r group, from 14.3% to 29.9% and 1.3 fold in the CPI/r 
group, from 51.6% to 68.7%. The most common reason for discontinuation of study medication in the 
CPI/r group  was  due to lack  of efficacy (316/737 patients; 42.9%), compared  with the TPV/r  group 
(68/748 patients; 9.1%). 
trials.  During 
the  RESIST 
in 
•  Adverse events 
In pharmacological studies, among healthy subjects exposed to TPV, 674 (88.1%) experienced AEs. 
In clinical studies, among patients who received the recommended dose of 500mg/200mg TPV/r bid 
for  more  than  24  weeks,  615  (80.8%)  experienced  at  least  one  AE.  The  duration  of  exposure  in 
clinical trials was between 24 and 96 weeks. 
In  the  update  period,  the  types  and  rates  of  adverse  events  (AEs)  and  serious  AEs  reported  among 
TPV/r-treated patients in the integrated trials and in the comparative RESIST trials, essentially did not 
change despite increased patient exposure, and were consistent with those of other currently available 
protease inhibitors.  
In  the  RESIST  trials,  the  most  common  AEs  across  both  treatment  arms  were  gastrointestinal 
disorders, which increased from 47.1% to 56.6% in TPV/r patients and from 42.9% to 48.2% in CPI/r 
patients during update period, followed by infections and infestations, which increased from 43.8% to 
53.9% in TPV/r patients and from 37.2% to 44.1% in CPI/r patients during the update period. For drug 
related  events  of  any  severity,  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs  for  both  treatment  groups  were 
diarrhoea, which increased from 13.4% to 14.6% in TPV/r patients and from 11.1% to 11.4% in CPI/r 
patients during the update period, and nausea, which increased from 11.7% to 12.4% in TPV/r patients 
and from 7.9% to 8.4% in CPI/r patients during the update period, however these AE rates have not 
been adjusted for duration of exposure.  
Headache was reported by 11.1% of 1854 patients who received TPV/r for 1101.5 PEY. When 
considering causality, headache was considered related to TPV/r in 4.1% of the 1854 patients. Within 
the RESIST trials that allow comparison of TPV/r to standard PI therapy, headache is reported in 
10.5% of 746 TPV/r patients (300.3 PEY) and in 7.3% of 737 CPI/r patients (264.6 PEY) at the 24-
week analysis. While headache is commonly reported in TPV/r recipients, it is seldom serious and 
usually does not lead to discontinuation of therapy. 
Although individual  variability in the type and frequency of  AEs was observed in evaluation of AEs 
by gender and race, clinically, no unusual AE patterns or other safety concerns were identified in the 
RESIST trials that would suggest that TPV/r should be restricted or have the dose adjusted based on 
these factors. 
A  signal  was  raised  from  non  clinical  data  that  TPV  could  induce  coagulation  disorders.  TPV  was 
observed 
time  and  activated  partial 
thromboplastin  time)  in  rodents  and  provoked  excessive  haemorrhage.  This  was  especially  critical, 
since TPV is synthetised on the structural basis of coumarin-like anticoagulants agents (warfarin and 
increase  coagulation  parameters  (i.e.  prothrombin, 
to 
32/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
phenprocoumon).  In  the  24-week  an  exploratory  analysis  of  collective  terms  associated  with 
“bleeding”, there were 29 (3.9%) bleeding events in the TPV/r arm and 13 (1.8%) in the CPI/r arm. 
The relative risk of bleeding was significant at 24-week analysis (1.98; 95% CI = 1.03-3.80) and was 
still perceivable as a trend even in the 48 weeks analysis. This safety issue will be further explored in 
the post-authorisation phase. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Most  safety  laboratory  values  are  not  affected  by  treatment  with  TPV/r.  Grade  3  or  4  elevations  in 
ALT/AST were more common with TPV/r than CPI/r. At 24 weeks, as reported in the SCS, 6.2% of 
TPV/r patients as compared to 2.5% of CPI/r patients had Grade 3 or 4 ALT and/or AST elevations. In 
the  update  period,  the  frequency  increased  by  ~50%  in  the  TPV/r  group  (9.8%  Grade  3  or  4  ALT 
and/or AST) and increased only by 20% in the CPI/r group (3.0%). Grade 3 or 4 LFT abnormalities 
were  generally  asymptomatic  and  most  patients  continued 
treatment  without  permanent 
discontinuation.  Relevant  risk  factors  associated  with  the  development  of  Grade  3  or  4  ALT/AST 
abnormalities  included  treatment  with  TPV/r,  positive  results  at  baseline  for  hepatitis  Bs  Ag  and/or 
hepatitis C RNA, baseline CD4+ cell counts >200 cells/mm3, and baseline Grade 2 or higher liver test 
abnormalities. 
Grade 3 or 4 elevations in cholesterol and triglycerides were more common with TPV/r. At 24 weeks, 
as reported in the SCS, 3.3% TPV/r patients as compared to 0.3% CPI/r patients had cholesterol levels 
>400  mg/dl,  and  20.8%  TPV/r  patients  as  compared  to  11.2%  CPI/r  patients  had  triglyceride  levels 
>750 mg/dl. In the update, the frequency of Grade 3 or 4 cholesterol elevations has increased to 4.0% 
in TPV/r patients as compared to 0.4% in CPI/r patients, and Grade 3 or 4 triglyceride elevations have 
increased  to  23.3%  in  TPV/r  patients  as  compared  to  12.2%  in  CPI/r  patients.  This  will  have  to  be 
followed in the Periodic Safety Update Reports and the 48 and 96 weeks reports on the RESIST trials. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The frequency of cumulative SAEs in the 2MSU as compared to the SCS increased in the TPV/r group 
from 13.1% to 18.9%, and increased in the CPI/r group from 11.9% to 14.7%. SAEs associated with 
liver events, were observed in 14 (1.9%) TPV/r patients as compared to 2 (0.3%) CPI/r patients.  
In the SCS, 102 fatalities were reported for the entire development program  up through the 11 June 
2004 cut-off. In the update period of 12 June 2004 to 30 September 2004, 29 additional fatalities were 
reported, for a total of 131 fatalities in the program. Of the 131 fatalities, 104 were in patients treated 
with TPV/r, thus, the overall frequency of death among TPV/r treated patients is 3.1% (104 deaths in 
3,367 TPV/r treated patients). The types and rate of fatalities in the TPV/r development program are 
consistent with what is expected in patients with advanced HIV disease. Fatalities were predominantly 
associated with AIDS progression events or opportunistic infections. However, among the fatalities in 
TPV/r treated patients several included a hepatic component in which the role of TPV/r could not be 
ruled out.  
The frequency of deaths in the RESIST trials was higher for TPV/r patients (3.3%) than CPI/r patients 
(1.9%). After being adjusted  for  exposure, the  estimated  number of patient deaths per 100 PEY was 
4.1 for patients receiving TPV/r and 3.5 for patients receiving CPI/r. 
Hepatic events  
There is a high incidence (47%) of hepatotoxicity/hepatic disorders (mainly cytolytic): 
(865/1861 (47%) patients had higher ALT grade in comparison with baseline ALT grade, while 996 
did not have a change in ALT grade in comparison with baseline, 
More ALT grade shifts were observed in patient with higher baseline ALT grade (2.8% from grade 0 
to grade 4; 4.2% from grade 1 to grade 4, and finally 8.5% from grade 2 to grade 4). The median time 
to maximum in days is longer when baseline ALT grade is low. 50% of 26 patients who temporarily 
interrupted TPV/r had a positive re-challenge, increased to grade 3 or greater, after a median of about 
30 days. 83/87 patients with grade 3 or greater and who stopped tipranavir/r had a decrease to <grade 
3 with a median time to achieve an ALT grade 2 or lower of 22 days. 
33/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Except  for  viral  hepatitis B and/or C, no specific  risk factors have been  found although the baseline 
ALT grade appears to be a risk factor. The mechanism of hepatotoxicity remains unknown.  
As seen in the  dose response study, there  was a trend toward a  dose  relationship  of  hepatic  enzyme 
elevations. 
The  hepatoxicity  is  a  major  concern  with  TPV.    Therefore  the  CHMP  agreed  on  introducing  strong 
warnings  and  stringent  monitoring  of  hepatic  tests  prior  and  during  treatment  as  specified  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics, on the need for quarterly reviews of hepatic disorders as well as 
for further data to better define the monitoring. 
Lipodystrophy 
In  the  combined  RESIST  trials,  a  “fat  redistribution”  AE  was  self-reported  in  1.9%  and  0.4%  of 
patients  in  the  TPV/r  and  CPI/r  groups,  respectively,  during  the  course  of  the  studies.  Compared  to 
CPI/r treatment, the overall relative risk of “fat redistribution” for TPV/r treatment was 4.14 (95% CI 
= 1.19, 14.4). The greatest relative risk for “fat redistribution” was seen in the time interval of >12 to 
24  weeks,  in  which  the  relative  risk  was  6.15  (95%  CI  =  0.77,  49.2).  No  standardised  criteria  for 
lipodystrophy  were  adopted  in  the  RESIST  pivotal  studies.  As  already  mentioned  lipid  metabolism 
disorders will be further explored during the post-authorisation phase. 
Rash 
High  frequency  of  rash  was  observed  in  an  interaction  study  (BI  1182.22)  performed  in  healthy, 
female volunteers. In that study 32/42 women taking both tipranavir/ritonavir with oral contraceptives 
reported  a  rash  requiring  early  discontinuation  form  the  study  before  receiving  the  final  dose.  No 
Stevens Johnson or Lyell Syndrome was reported. In the dose finding study 1182-52 in HIV infected 
patients it was assumed that high TPV concentrations was a risk factor for developing rash (OD 1.02; 
95 % CI 1.00 to 1.03; p = 0.01). A warning has been included in the SPC, and the applicant undertook 
to further explore this safety issue in post-authorisation phase. 
Pregnancy 
There  have  been  seven  known  cases  of  TPV/r  exposure  during  pregnancy,  the  outcomes  for  these 
included  4  live  normal  births,  2  elective  terminations,  and  1  spontaneous  abortion.  The  applicant 
undertook  to  support  the  Anti-Retroviral  Pregnancy  Registry  intended  to  detect  early  any  potential 
risks of teratogenicity associated with antiretroviral therapy. 
Cardiotoxicity  
The  available  electrocardiographic  data  do  not  suggest  an  increased  risk  of  QTc  prolongation  for 
patients  taking  tipranavir.  Nonetheless,  considering  the  limitations  of  the  clinical  exploration  of  the 
cardiotoxic potential, the applicant undertook to conduct a formal study to evaluate of the QT interval 
after administration of TPV with RTV, the   results of which will be provided post-authorisation. 
Long term cardiovascular risk  
No  particular  signal  has  emerged  toward  a  higher  number  of  cardiovascular  events.  However,  the 
follow-up is currently limited and cardiovascular events will have to be monitored in the long term. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics  and  physicochemical  and  biological  aspects 
relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled 
34/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  a  satisfactory  way,  and  these  results  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  quality  of  this  product  is 
considered to be acceptable.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact  on  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  the  product,  but  which  will  have  to  be  submitted  as  part  of  the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Tipranavir has been shown an antiviral activity both in vitro and in vivo against laboratory and clinical 
isolates  compatible  with  a  potential  clinical  use  for  the  treatment  of  HIV  infection.  Tipranavir 
demonstrated  antiviral  activity  against  several  resistant  HIV-strains  indicating  that  it  may  be  a 
therapeutic  opinion  for  PI-experienced  HIV-patients.  The  general  pharmacology  studies  showed  no 
significant treatment related adverse effects. 
The pharmacokinetics profile of tipranavir has been adequately studied preclinically. Results showed 
that RTV co-administration resulted in an increase in TPV systemic exposure in all tested species.  
Studies  with  co-administration  of tipranavir and ritonavir  did not reveal any additional toxicological 
effects  when  compared  to  those  seen  in  the  tipranavir  single  agent  toxicological  studies.  The 
predominant  effects  of  repeated  administration  of  tipranavir  across  all  species  toxicologically  tested 
were  on the  gastrointestinal tract  (emesis, soft stool, diarrhoea),  and the liver (hypertrophy). Effects 
were  reversible  with  termination  of  treatment.  Additional  changes  included  bleeding  in  rats  at  high 
doses  (rodents specific). Bleeding  observed in rats  was associated  with prolonged prothrombin time 
(PT)  and  activated  partial  thromboplastin  time  (APTT).  Further  data  are  awaited  in  male  rats  to 
elucidate the mechanism of action of the anti-coagulant effect of TPV. The majority of the effects in 
repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  appeared  at  systemic  exposure  levels  which  are  equivalent  to  or  even 
below the human exposure levels at the recommended clinical dose. 
There was no evidence of toxicity to reproduction. Tipranavir showed no evidence of genetic toxicity 
in a battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. The lack of final results from the carcinogenicity studies was 
addressed and in accordance  with the Note  for Guidance  on the  need  for Carcinogenicity Studies of 
Pharmaceuticals  (CPMP/ICH/140/95),  related  to  drugs  intended  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
limited treatment options, the CHMP considered a marketing authorisation could be granted prior the 
availability of these results. However the applicant undertook to submit the final results as part of the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation.  
Efficacy 
Tipranavir is a new non-peptidic protease inhibitor. It has been developed in combination with  
200  mg  ritonavir  as  a  pharmacokinetic  enhancer  to  overcome  its  low  bioavailability.  Moreover,  a 
particular  SEDDS  capsule  formulation  has  been  developed  in  this  field.    It  has  an  attractive 
pharmacodynamic  profile  with  limited  cross  resistance  to  other  available  protease  inhibitors,  that 
confers a particular value in the field of salvage therapy. Resistance data derived from ongoing studies 
will be provided to further substantiate the resistance profile of tipranavir during the post-authorisation 
phase. 
Tipranavir  is  mainly  characterised  by  a  high  variability  and  a  complex  interaction  profile  which 
requires particular attention in particular with other antiretroviral agents. Tipranavir is a PgP substrate, 
weak PgP inhibitor and potent inducer. In addition it is a substrate, inducer and inhibitor of CYP 3A4. 
Co-administered with low dose of ritonavir, there is a net inhibition of CYP3A4. 
Awaiting for further data on the food influence on the pharmacokinetics of tipranavir, it was agreed to 
recommend the administration of tipranavir with food. 
Since  its  renal  clearance  is  negligible,  no  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment. Because tipranavir is metabolised by the hepatic system, liver impairment may increase 
tipranavir  exposure  and  thereby  worsening  its  safety  profile.  Therefore  patients  with  mild  hepatic 
impairment  should  be  closely  monitored,  with  increased  monitoring  frequency  of  hepatic  tests  as 
reflected  in  the  SPC.  In  the  absence  of  adequate  data  tipranavir  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with 
severe  liver  impairment  as  well  as  moderate  waiting  for  results  of  a  study  in  this  population.  The 
35/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant  undertook  to  conduct  additional  studies  to  better  define  the  pharmacokinetics  profile  of 
tipranavir in particular with respect to interactions. 
With  respect  to  the  choice  of  the  dose,  whereas  higher  doses  seemed  to  be  associated  with  better 
virological  suppression,  hepatic  events  are  a  concerning  limiting  factor  for  increasing  the  dose.  The 
choice of 500/200 mg was therefore considered appropriate.  
The  clinical  benefit  of  tipranavir  has  been  evaluated  in  two  large,  multicentre,  open  label  phase  III 
studies  (around  600  and  800  patients  enrolled  each  in  RESIST  1  and  2)  that  included  patients 
previously treated with multiple antiretroviral regimens. Patients enrolled were randomised to receive 
a 500 mg/200 mg twice daily dose of tipranavir combined with ritonavir or another protease inhibitor 
combined  with  ritonavir  at  its  standard  boosting  dose.  In  addition,  patients  received  an  optimised 
background  regimen  selected  on  the  basis  of  treatment  history  and  baseline  genotypic  resistance 
testing.  The  population  enrolled  was  to  match  precise  inclusion  criteria  as  regards  the  genotypic 
resistance  at  baseline.  In  practical,  an  heterogeneous  population  of  heavily  pre-treated  patients  has 
been  enrolled  (with  or  without  any  remaining  “genotypically  available”  boosted  PI).  The  use  of 
enfuvirtide was allowed, if chosen prior to randomisation. Although not designed in this way, it turned 
out  that  for  both  studies  “best  available  boosted  PI”  that  could  be  proposed  to  the  patient  was 
lopinavir/ritonavir. 
In both studies tipranavir/ritonavir has been shown to be superior (p<0.001) to a mixed comparator of 
PI boosted. At 24 weeks, more patient on tipranavir had a –1 log10 copies/ml decrease in plasma viral 
load (41.5 versus 22.3 % ; P< 0.0001 in RESIST 1). At 16 weeks, more patient on tipranavir had a –1 
log10  copies/ml  decrease  in  plasma  viral  load  (46.9  versus  21.3  %  ;  P<  0.0001  in  RESIST  2). 
Preliminary data at 48 weeks for RESIST 1 and 24 weeks for RESIST 2 suggest the maintenance of 
the  superiority  of  tipranavir.  Despite  the  complex  design  of  the  studies,  re-assurance  was  provided, 
notably  with  the  checking  of  individual  data,  showing  that  the  superiority  has  not  been  biased  in 
favour of tipranavir arm.   
Limited  data  are  available  on  the  use  of  tipranavir  in  patients  co-infected  with  hepatitis  B  or  C. 
Because  this  population  is  at  increased  risk  for  severe  and  potentially  fatal  hepatic  adverse  events, 
tipranavir should be used in this population only if necessary with an increased clinical and laboratory 
monitoring awaiting for further data.  
There  are  currently  insufficient  data  to  support  the  use  of  tipranavir  in  children  but  the  applicant 
undertook to complete the development programme in this population. 
Safety 
In  the  RESIST  trials, the  most  frequent  adverse  reactions  were  diarrhoea,  nausea,  fatigue,  headache 
and vomiting in the tipranavir arm. The safety profile  of the tipranavir is mainly characterised by its 
hepatotoxicity,  lipid  disorders,  rash  and  coagulation  disorders/bleeding.  These  reactions  have  been 
seen at  higher  frequency  among the tipranavir  arm  compared to the  comparator arm in the RESIST 
trials.  The  applicant  provided  its  plan  to  further  follow  these  issues  during  the  post-authorisation 
phase.  In  addition  with  respect  to  the  liver  toxicity,  as  already  mentioned,  strong  warnings  and 
stringent monitoring of hepatic tests prior and during treatment have been specified in the Summary of 
Product  Characteristics,  and  quarterly  reviews  of  hepatic  disorders  and  deaths  as  well  as  for  further 
data to better define the monitoring will be provided during the post-authorisation phase. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall,  these  pivotal  studies  have  demonstrated  that  tipranavir/ritonavir  is  a  valuable  therapeutic 
option  in  salvage  regimen  in  line  with  its  pharmacodynamic  properties.  The  development  of  this 
product is in line with the Guideline on the clinical development of anti-HIV medicinal products for 
heavily  treatment-experienced  patients  with  few  remaining  treatment  options  for  which  there  is  an 
unmet medical need. In line with the Guideline, awaiting for the 48 weeks data from the RESIST trials 
to  confirm  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  long  term  use  of  tipranavir  with  low  dose  of  ritonavir,  the 
marketing authorisation could be recommended under exceptional circumstances. Nonetheless in view 
36/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of its safety profile and complex interaction profile, the CHMP recommended that tipranavir with low 
dose  of  ritonavir  should  be  considered  as  a  last  line  PI  therapy  and  should  be  used  only  when 
documented resistance precludes the administration of other protease inhibitors. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit/risk ratio of APTIVUS was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances in the following indication 
“APTIVUS, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for combination 
antiretroviral treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated adult patients with virus 
resistant to multiple protease inhibitors.  
This indication is based on the results of two phase III studies, performed in highly pre-treated 
patients (median number of 12 prior antiretroviral agents) with virus resistant to protease 
inhibitors (see details of resistance profile of patients’ HIV at baseline in section 5.1 of the 
Summary of Product Characteristics). 
In deciding to initiate treatment with APTIVUS, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, 
careful consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the 
patterns of mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when 
available) and treatment history should guide the use of APTIVUS.” 
37/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
