Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Aqumeldi 
(enalapril maleate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Aqumeldi. The RMP details important risks of 
Aqumeldi, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Aqumeldi's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Aqumeldi's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Aqumeldi should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Aqumeldi should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Aqumeldi's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Aqumeldi is authorised for indicated for the treatment of heart failure in children from birth to less than 
18 years (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains enalapril maleate as the active substance and it 
is given orally via orodispersible tablet. 
Further information about the evaluation of Aqumeldi’s benefits can be found in Aqumeldi’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/aqumeldi. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Aqumeldi, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Aqumeldi's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Aqumeldi are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Aqumeldi. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of 
the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of 
the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Hyperkalaemia 
•  Symptomatic hypotension, particularly following the first 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
dose 
•  None 
•  Children with hepatic impairment 
•  Safety in paediatric patients <1 month of age 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Aqumeldi. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Aqumeldi. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
