EMA/429786/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005731
Aqumeldi (enalapril)
An overview of Aqumeldi and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Aqumeldi and what is it used for?
Aqumeldi is used in children and adolescents from birth to 17 years of age to treat heart failure (when 
the heart is not able to pump enough blood around the body).
Aqumeldi contains the active substance enalapril and is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is 
similar to an authorised reference medicine containing the same active substance, but there are certain 
differences between the two. Aqumeldi is available at a lower dose than its reference medicine, 
Renitec, and in a different form that is appropriate for children. 
How is Aqumeldi used?
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the treatment of children with heart failure.
Aqumeldi is taken daily. It is available as tablets that dissolve in the mouth (orodispersible tablets).
For more information about using Aqumeldi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
How does Aqumeldi work?
Aqumeldi belongs to a group of medicines called angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. The 
medicine blocks ACE from forming the hormone angiotensin II, which is involved in raising blood 
pressure. By blocking the formation of angiotensin II, Aqumeldi helps to lower blood pressure and 
increases the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart.
What benefits of Aqumeldi have been shown in studies?
The company provided the results from three studies looking at how Aqumeldi given at different doses 
behaves in the body. One study was carried out in healthy adults. Two studies were carried out in 
children from birth to 17 years of age with heart failure, caused either by dilated cardiomyopathy or 
congenital heart disease, two types of heart conditions. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
These studies showed that treatment with Aqumeldi in children leads to similar levels of enalapril to 
those achieved with authorised enalapril treatment in adults. Aqumeldi is therefore expected to be 
similarly effective at treating heart failure in children and adults. 
The company also provided information from the published literature on the benefits and risks of 
enalapril when used off label in children with heart failure.
What are the risks associated with Aqumeldi?
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Aqumeldi, see the package leaflet.
The most common side effects with Aqumeldi (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include cough, 
vomiting, microalbuminuria (low levels of the protein albumin in urine), hyperkalaemia (high levels of 
potassium in the blood), hypotension (low blood pressure), and postural dizziness (dizziness when 
standing up). 
Aqumeldi must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to enalapril, to any other ACE 
inhibitors or to any of the other ingredients of Aqumeldi (which are listed in the package leaflet). It 
must also not be used in people who have had angioedema (rapid swelling under the skin) associated 
with previous ACE inhibitor therapy and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic (when the cause is 
unknown) angioedema. Aqumeldi must not be used during the second and third trimesters of 
pregnancy.
Patients with diabetes or kidney problems must not use Aqumeldi in combination with aliskiren-
containing medicines (used to treat essential hypertension [high blood pressure of unknown cause]).
Aqumeldi must also not be used in combination with medicines containing sacubitril and valsartan 
(other medicines for heart failure) due to the increased risk of angioedema. Aqumeldi must not be 
given within 36 hours of switching to or from those medicines.
Finally, Aqumeldi must not be used in people with severe kidney problems.
Why is Aqumeldi authorised in the EU?
Enalapril is authorised for treating heart failure in adults and is expected to work in the same way in 
adults and in children. Based on studies conducted in healthy adults and children with heart failure, as 
well as data from the published literature on the off-label use of enalapril in children with heart failure, 
Aqumeldi is expected to be effective at treating heart failure in children from birth to 17 years of age. 
In terms of safety, Aqumeldi was shown to be well tolerated, although data in babies below one month 
of age were limited. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Aqumeldi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Aqumeldi?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Aqumeldi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Aqumeldi are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Aqumeldi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.
Aqumeldi (enalapril) 
EMA/429786/2023
Page 2/3
Other information about Aqumeldi
Aqumeldi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 November 2023. 
Further information on Aqumeldi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/aqumeldi. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2023. 
Aqumeldi (enalapril) 
EMA/429786/2023
Page 3/3
