SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Aranesp. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 September 2003. For scientific information on procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) develop uremic anaemia as one of the most obvious signs of 
the  disease.  This  symptom  is  caused  by  impeded  renal  production  of  erythropoietin  (EPO).  EPO 
controls  red  blood  cell  counts  (RBC)  production  by  promoting  survival,  proliferation  and 
differentiation  of  erythroid  progenitors  in  the  bone  marrow.  Effective  management  of  anaemia  in 
chronic  renal  failure  (CRF)  has  a  major  impact  on  quality  of  life  and  may  influence  survival. 
Supplementation  with  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  (r-HuEPO)  is  currently  the  standard 
treatment for anaemia in those patients. It is regarded as an effective drug, which has an established 
safety record.  
Recombinant human erythropoietin is currently available as a treatment for anaemia in end stage renal 
disease.  Administration  2  to  3  times  weekly  is  required  in  the  majority  of  subjects.  The  aim  of 
inventing  this  new  molecular  entity  of  darbepoetin  alfa  was  to  obtain  a  therapeutic  with  a  longer 
biological  half-life  compared  to  r-HuEPO,  allowing  a  reduction  of  the  frequency  of  injections 
necessary to maintain a desired level of systemic haemoglobin and haematocrit. The chronic nature of 
CRF (unless a subject receives a kidney transplant) means that treatment may continue for a long part 
of the subject’s life and multiple weekly injections of r-HuEPO can have a major impact on subjects 
and care givers. Research has indicated that the sialic acid containing carbohydrate of erythropoietin 
determines  its  serum  half-live.  Darbepoetin  alfa  is  novel  erythropoeisis  stimulating  protein  with 
increased sialic acid content compared to recombinant human erythropoietin and therefore exhibiting 
different pharmacokinetic properties.  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The  finished  product  of  Aranesp  is  a  ready-to-use  aqueous  formulation  of  darbepoetin  alfa.  The 
formulation contains polysorbate 80 as a protective agent. During the development of darbepoetin alfa, 
the level of excipients was selected to prevent adsorption and minimise aggregation induced by shear 
and agitation stress. 
The formulation is presented in pre-filled syringes (PFS) and vials. The doses for the PFS range from 
10 µg to 300 µg in volumes of 0.3 to 0.6 ml. The doses for the vials range from 15 µg to 60 µg in 1 ml 
withdrawable  volume.  The  vial  container  closure  system  consists  of  a  3-ml  borosilicate  type  I  glass 
with rubber stoppers and aluminium flip-off seals. The pre-filled syringes consist of a borosilicate type 
1 barrel (1ml) with a rubber plunger stopper and a staked-in-place needle. 
Clinical  studies  were  performed  with  the  albumin  formulation.  The  polysorbate  and  albumin 
formulations have been compared by analysing quality-indicating parameters, preclinical studies and a 
clinical bioequivalence study in healthy subjects. 
Active substance 
Darbepoetin  alfa  (also  known  by  its  laboratory  code  NESP)  is  a  novel  erythropoeisis  stimulating 
protein produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology. The final 
processed form is a 165 amino acid protein. 
A description of the expression vector and encoding gene construct used for generation of the cell line 
and  preparation  of  the  master  cell  bank  (MCB)  and  working  cell  bank  (WCB)  are  provided  in  the 
1/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dossier. The genetic stability and integrity were analysed using southern and northern blot techniques 
and  copy  number  analysis.  The  cell  banks  and  end-of-production  (EOP)  cells  were  tested  for  the 
presence of viral contaminants (including testing for retroviruses/reverse transcriptase activity) and for 
microbial contaminants (sterility and mycoplasma).  
Cell Culture 
The  active  substance  is  produced  using  roller  bottle  technology.  Darbepoetin  alfa  is  constitutively 
expressed from adherent CHO cells into cell culture production medium. The cell conditioned media 
is  collected,  clarified,  and  concentrated  for  further  processing.  Prior  to  the  inoculation  of  the 
production  roller  bottles,  cells  are  serially  cultivated  and  expanded  in  adherent  and  suspension 
cultures. Assurance is given that raw materials from animal origin, used during the expansion of the 
cell  culture,  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  TSE  Note  for  Guidance.  Bioburden  testing, 
mycoplasma, and adventitious viral testing are performed for each cell culture lot. In process controls 
during  the  cell  culture  phase  includes  a  determination  of  the  cell  density,  viability,  pH,  pCO2,  pO2, 
glucose, total protein, and darbepoetin alfa concentration.  
Purification 
Purification of darbepoetin alfa is performed by a sequence of chromatographic and filtration steps for 
the generation of filtered purified bulk product. In process controls and specifications are adequate to 
control  product  quality  and  consistency  of  the  purification  process.  In  process  rejection  limits  have 
been set for  the  most critical parameters. The purification process  has been validated  and  maximum 
lifetimes for the chromatography columns have been established. 
Characterisation 
Darbepoetin alfa has been characterised using physico-chemical and biological assays. State-of-the-art 
analytical procedures have been used to elucidate the protein sequence and the structural elements of 
the N- and O-linked oligosaccharides. N-terminal sequencing of overlapping peptides prepared by RP-
HPLC  from  a  tryptic  and  GluC  digest  respectively  confirmed  the  native  positions  of  the  internal 
disulfide  bridges,  especially  in  terms  of  correct  folding,  and  the  sites  for  N-linked-  and  O-linked 
oligosaccharide  chains.  A  RP-HPLC  method  was  developed  to  separate  differently  glycosylated 
darbepoetin alfa forms. Darbepoetin alfa biological activity has been characterised using a number of 
assays based on its erythropoietic activity.  
Appropriate specifications have been set for the testing of the active substance at release and at the end 
of the shelf life. All methods used have been described and validated.  
Other ingredients 
All excipients and immediate packaging materials meet the requirements of the Ph. Eur. 
Product development and finished product 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  final  product  consists  of  a  dilution  of  the  filtered  purified  bulk 
(active substance) to the desired concentration with buffer, sterile filtration and sterile filling into vials 
or  syringes.  Final  product  is  manufactured  at  Amgen  Puerto  Rico,  Juncos,  PR.  Packaging,  labelling 
and final release will be done by Amgen Europe B.V., Breda, The Netherlands. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  final  product  has  been  validated  and  is  controlled  by  in  process 
controls  and  product  release  specifications.  The  quality  of  the  final  product  is  ensured  by  a 
combination  of  physico-chemical,  biological,  and  immunological  methods.  All  methods  used  for 
routine control have been described and validated.   
2/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Based on the real time stability results after storage at 2 – 8 °C, a shelf life of 18 months is acceptable 
for both the vials and pre-filled syringes. The shelf life has been extended to 24 months at 2 – 8 °C via 
a variation application. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  objectives  of  the  preclinical  investigation  were  i)  to  demonstrate  qualitative  biological 
equivalence  and  specificity  of  darbepoetin-alfa  with  its  predecessor  epoetin-alfa  (r-HuEPO)  in  vitro 
and in vivo, ii) to demonstrate higher biological activity of darbepoetin alfa and to explain this by the 
changes  attained  in  the  pharmacokinetic  profile,  and  iii)  to  demonstrate  relative  non-toxicity  of  this 
new  preparation  in  comparison  to  the  former  variety.  iv)  Additionally,  as  two  formulations  of 
darbepoetin  alfa  were  under  development  for  clinical  use,  one  containing  human  serum  albumin 
(HSA)  and  one  containing  polysorbate  80,  but  HSA-free,  a  series  of  biophysical  assays  in  vitro,  a 
pharmaceutical bioactivity study in vitro, and an in vivo preclinical study had to be conducted in order 
to demonstrate comparability of the albumin and polysorbate 80 formulations. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro studies  
Darbepoetin  alfa  was  shown  to  bind  to  the  Hu-EPO  receptor  expressed  on  a  human  cell  line  and  to 
exert  a  specific  bioactivity  for  the  differentiation  and/or  proliferation  of  different  stages  of  primary 
cultures  of  mouse  bone  marrow  progenitor  cells, and also  of a  pluripotent  murine  bone  marrow  cell 
line (32D) in vitro. Desialylation increased its bioactivity by approximately 15-fold in the murine cell 
test system. These results support the notion that the affinity of darbepoetin alfa for the EPO receptor 
and its biological activity in vitro coincide with its grade of sialylation. This was attributed to steric 
and  charge  effects  of  the  additional  carbohydrate  structure.  Conversely,  it  can  be  concluded  that 
affinity and bioactivity of darbepoetin alfa are not adversely influenced by the exchange of five amino 
acids of the peptide compared to the natural form. It is believed that desialylation is not a prerequisite 
for biological activity in vivo since intact darbepoetin alfa has been shown to bind to and activate the 
EPO receptor in vitro. 
The  specificity  of  tissue  binding  was  tested  by  comparing  the  binding  of  darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-
HuEPO to different human tissues ex vivo, which might express EPO receptors or related receptors of 
the haematopoietic type. The only positive tissue identified to bind control-EPO as well as darbepoetin 
alfa,  was  bone  marrow.  This  experiment  indicated  that  there  is  no  enhanced  binding  of  darbepoetin 
alfa to human tissues other than bone marrow and any cross-reactivity with related cytokine receptors 
is  very  unlikely  to  occur.  However,  as  these  forms  are  cleared  more  rapidly  systemically,  their 
potential for in vivo biological effect is reduced. 
• 
In vivo studies  
In  mice, darbepoetin alfa was generally about 4- to 5-fold more active than r-HuEPO in stimulating 
erythropoiesis (haematocrit, haemoglobin level and red cell counts) when injected 3-times weekly, and 
even about 8-times more active when comparing once weekly injections. Also, a faster initial rate of 
haematocrit  rise  was  observed  with  darbepoetin  alfa  if  compared  to  r-HuEPO  after  dosing  once  per 
week.  A  lower  frequency  of  administration  of  equal  weekly  amounts  of  darbepoetin  alfa  always 
produced a lower response.  
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
In safety pharmacology studies, there was no immediate, unspecific influence of darbepoetin alfa on 
any important physiological functions of the body.  
3/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local  toxicity  at  the  injection  sites  did  not  differ  in  treated  and  control  groups  of  rats,  rabbits,  and 
dogs. 
No formal interaction studies have been performed. The company agreed to include a statement in the 
SPC  regarding  potential  interaction  with  cyclosporin  A,  since  this  component  is  known  to  bind  to 
RBCs and may be used in the submitted indication. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Absorption and distribution 
Extensive preclinical pharmacokinetic studies have characterized the basic pharmacokinetic properties 
of  darbepoetin  alfa  following  single  and  multiple  dose  administration,  both  intravenously  and 
subcutaneously,  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  Beagle  dogs.  These  species  are  both  responsive  to  the 
biological effects of darbepoetin alfa and are the primary species used in the toxicology studies. These 
analyses allow assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters, following multiple dose administration of 
darbepoetin alfa, with regard to dose-linearity, time-linearity, accumulation potential, effect of sex and 
effect of antibodies. A single intravenous dose, dose-ranging study was also performed in mice, which 
is the species used for the pharmacodynamic studies. 
In  mice,  darbepoetin  alfa  IV  pharmacokinetics  appeared  to  be  dose  linear  over  the  range  1  to  100 
µg/kg,  as  assessed  by  compartmental  modelling.  In rats,  all  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  linear 
with  dose,  with  the  exception  of  absorption  kinetics.  Following  SC  dosing,  bioavailability  was 
approximately  50%  and  Cmax  occurred  at  12-24  hrs  post-dose.  Upon  multiple  dosing  of  darbepoetin 
alfa to rats by either the intravenous or subcutaneous routes (up to 6 months), the pharmacokinetics of 
darbepoetin alfa were dose-linear and time-independent. Accumulation was low.  There was no effect 
of  gender,  antibody  formation,  dose  or  route  on  the  primary  pharmacokinetic  parameters.  In 
radiolabelled  studies,  darbepoetin  alfa  stayed  mainly  in  the  vascular  compartment  and  tissue 
penetration was generally low.  
In  dogs,  serum  levels  following  IV  dosing  were  consistent  with  a  three  compartment  model.  The 
elimination  half-lives  increased  with  increasing  dose,  thus  the  elimination  pathways  appeared  to  be 
saturable. Following a single s.c. administration, Tmax was 24 hours and bioavailability varied with the 
dose  between 65 to  78%.  Cmax was  about  one  quarter  of the  value  obtained  with i.v.  administration. 
The pharmakokinetic parameters were not affected by sex. In a repeat dose s.c. study, over the dose 
range  1  to  10  µg/kg,  darbepoetin  alfa  pharmacokinetics  were  generally  predictable  from  the  single 
dose scenario. 
Both  the  formulations  containing  HSA  or  polysorbate  80  could  be  demonstrated  to  be  biologically 
equivalent  in  pharmaceutical  test  systems  in  vitro  and  in  a  preclinical  in  vivo  study.  Neither  the 
formulation nor the concentration of the darbepoetin alfa solution administered had any influence on 
the major non-compartmental pharmacokinetic parameters in dogs (AUC, Cmax, CL/F). 
• 
Metabolism and excretion 
Sialic acid content (as indicated by IEF) is the critical correlate between the darbepoetin alfa structural 
composition  and  its  in  vivo  pharmacokinetic  profile.  The  underlying  clearance  mechanism  of 
darbepoetin  alfa  was  demonstrated  to  be  desialylation  by  tissue  and  blood  sialidases  and  ensuing 
hepatic  removal  via  a  galactose  receptor  mediated  uptake.  The  first-pass  extraction  ratio  of 
desialylated  darbepoetin  alfa  was  calculated  to  approximate  85%.  The  insignificant  role  of  renal 
clearance was demonstrated in rats after uni- and bilateral nephrectomy. In a radiolabelled study, 57% 
and 24% of the radiolabel was excreted in urine and faeces, respectively within 168 hours. There were 
no apparent differences in either distribution or excretion between males and females. 
4/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Single and repeat dose toxicity 
A  full  set  of  conventional  toxicity  tests  in  two  species  has  been  performed  with  darbepoetin  alfa. 
Single and repeated dose toxicity tests were conducted in rats and dogs (6 studies in rat, 2 single and 4 
repeat  dose  studies  and  6  studies  in  dog,  2  single  and  4  repeat  dose  studies).  Measurement  of  the 
serum  kinetics  of  darbepoetin  alfa  after  diverse  s.c.  and  i.v.  doses  were  made  in  parallel  to  these 
studies. The pharmacological activity of darbepoetin alfa, due to its prolonged circulation in the body 
and  the  high  doses  administered,  resulted  in  the  production  of  extreme  polycythemia  and  associated 
actions, including widespread extramedullary haemopoiesis. Decreases in serum iron and increases in 
iron-binding  capacity  are  consistent  with 
into  haemoglobin  during 
erythropoiesis. Extramedullary haematopoiesis was paralleled by splenic hypertrophy, the appearance 
of  immature  erythrocytes  and  a  decrease  of  platelets.  By  contrast,  increased  potassium  levels  also 
indicated an increased rate of erythrocyte destruction by splenic activity. Tissue hypoxia, secondary to 
polycythemia, was manifested in the livers of dogs receiving medium and high doses as centrilobular 
necrosis/degeneration  and,  after  very  high  doses,  also  fibrotic  changes  in  the  heart  and  kidneys  and 
myelofibrosis in the bone marrow became evident. All these signs can be regarded as typical for high 
doses of erythropoietin, and are also known for r-HuEPO’s. The specific erythrogenic stimulation has 
been maintained for months, and has largely still been reversible, even after the short recovery period 
of one month after a 6-month treatment time. 
incorporation  of 
iron 
Reproductive toxicity 
Reproductive  toxicity  studies  have  been  performed  in  rats  and  rabbits:  fertility  studies  in  male  and 
female rats, embryotoxic studies in rat and rabbit and a pre/postnatal study in rats.  
No  clinically  relevant  evidence  of  harmful  effects  with  respect  to  pregnancy,  embryonal/foetal 
development, parturition or postnatal development was observed. Any adverse effects observed were 
typically associated with  an increase  in haematocrit  and red blood cell counts.  In a fertility study in 
rats, the number of live foetuses was reduced in the treated groups and post implantation losses were 
increased dose-dependently. Foetal or pup weights were generally reduced in the treated groups of the 
other  reproductive  studies  but  no  definitive  risks  could  be  identified  for  low  dose  administration  of 
darbepoetin alfa to pregnant animals.  
Genotoxicity 
Darbepoetin  alfa  was  tested  for  genotoxic  activity  in  a  bacterial  reverse  mutation  assay,  in  a 
mammalian cell gene mutation assay (HPRT assay using CHO cells) and in an in vivo bone marrow 
micronucleus  test  in  male  mice.  As  expected,  the  compound  did  not  exert  any  genotoxic  activity  in 
these test systems. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies were omitted for plausible reasons.  
Local tolerance 
Local tolerance results were obtained from studies in rats (6 months, i.v.) and dogs (4 weeks, s.c.). A 
clinical  formulation  (free  of  human  serum  albumin  and  containing  Polysorbate  80)  was  shown  not 
cause any local reaction in GLP compliant tests when injected to rabbits as a single dose intravenously 
or intraarterially, perivenously, or subcutaneously injection. 
Immunogenicity 
Immunogenicity  was  determined  in  pharmacodynamic  and  repeated  toxicity  studies  as  well  as  in 
clinical studies. The abilities of darbepoetin alfa and r-HuEPO to induce IgG-antibody formation were 
5/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mostly indistinguishable from each other, when administered at equal weekly doses by the same route 
and  frequency.  Antigenicity  was  clearly  dose-dependent,  positively  correlated  with  the  frequency  of 
administration,  and  at  least  twice  as  high  after  subcutaneous  than  after  intraperitoneal  injection,  but 
practically absent after intravenous administration. Neutralising activity did not affect the kinetics of 
darbepoetin  alfa.  The  erythrogenic  response  was  not  visibly  affected  during  dosing,  nor  was  the 
antibody titre related to the changes in haematocrit in subsequent recovery periods. The incidence of 
seroconversion  declined  during  the  recovery  periods,  but  did  not  fully  disappear.  The  pathological 
changes seen in both the rats and dogs did not indicate immunologically mediated tissue damage, i.e. 
there were no features of immune complex formation.  
In  human  clinical  studies,  in  over  1500  darbepoetin  alfa  treated  patients  followed  for  a  mean  of  12 
months (with over 150 treated for 2 years), no antibodies were detected.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Two  exploratory  dose- and schedule-finding studies (NESP-960245 and NESP-960246)  investigated 
the  effects  of  darbepoetin  alfa  for  correction  of  anaemia  in  HD  and  PD  patients  by  IV  and  SC 
administration  respectively.  The  results  of  both  studies  showed  a  clear  dose-related  effect  of 
darbepoetin alfa by IV as well as  by SC route and independent of the schedule (once or three times 
weekly).  At  two  of  the  selected  dose  levels,  60  to  70%  of  patients  produced  an  optimal  rate  of  rise 
(ROR) in Hb, which was the primary endpoint, within the first 4 weeks(1g/dL). Based on the results of 
these studies it was concluded that 0.45 to 0.75µg/kg of darbepoetin alfa administered once weekly IV 
or SC is the most appropriate starting dose for treatment of anaemia in CRF patients.  
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
The clinical program included studies aimed at establishing the pharmacokinetic profile of darbepoetin 
alfa in adult and paediatric CRF patients undergoing either HD or PD. In 5 studies, determination of 
darbepoetin  alfa  pharmacokinetic  properties  was  the  primary  endpoint.  Three  of  these  studies  were 
conducted  in  adult  CRF  patients  and  included  single-dose  IV/SC  in  PD  patients  (NESP  960224), 
multidose IV in HD patients (NESP 970235) and multidose SC in HD/PD patients (NESP 980194).  
Pharmacokinetics after a single dose was dose-linear, and there was no clinically relevant influence of 
demographic variables (sex, race, age, body weight) on single-dose pharmacokinetic parameters. In a 
comparative  study  (NESP-960224),  darbepoetin  alfa  had  a  three-fold  longer  half-life  than  r-HuEPO 
after IV administration. Comparison with historical data at equivalent doses, suggested that the half-
life after SC administration was two to three-fold longer than r-HuEPO, and bioavailability was very 
similar.  
Following  repeated  IV  and  SC  dosing,  darbepoetin  alfa  pharmacokinetics  remained  time-linear  and 
estimates for multiple-dose parameters were very similar to the single-dose parameters.  Accumulation 
was  minimal  when  investigated  in  over  700  patients  for  both  IV  and  SC  administration  for  up  to  1 
year. Regardless of dose, schedule, or route, the dose-normalised trough serum concentrations did not 
increase over time.  
• 
Studies in special populations 
Initial  data  from  a  single-dose  IV/SC  pharmacokinetic  study  in  paediatric  CRF  patients  with  or 
without dialysis treatment (NESP 980212) showed similar pharmacokinetic properties of darbepoetin 
alfa compared with adult CRF patients. However, on basis of the limited data of this clinical trial, the 
use of darbepoetin alfa for the treatment of children cannot be granted. The indication will therefore be 
6/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limited  to  the  treatment  of  anaemia  associated  with  chronic  renal  failure  in  adults  and  paediatric 
patients ≥ 11 years of age.  
• 
Bioequivalence studies 
A  single-dose  crossover  study  (NESP  990134)  was  undertaken  in  healthy  volunteers  demonstrating 
that the HSA containing and HSA free darbepoetin alfa formulations are bio-equivalent following SC 
administration. 
• 
Conclusion 
The pharmacokinetic studies showed that darbepoetin alfa has a slower clearance and a significantly 
longer  terminal  half-life  in  CRF  patients  when  compared  to  r-HuEPO.  There  was  no  evidence  of 
accumulation  of  darbepoetin  alfa  over  time.  There  are  no  special  precautions  for  use  based  on  the 
pharmacokinetic  data,  although  darbepoetin  alfa  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  acute 
hepatic failure, as the liver is a likely route for drug elimination.  
Two formulations of darbepoetin alfa were used for clinical use, one containing HSA and one without 
HSA.  These  two  formulations  are  bio-equivalent  and,  therapeutically,  can  be  regarded  as 
interchangeable. The applicant will only be marketing the HSA free version.   
Clinical efficacy 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Clinical  studies  have  been  performed  for  correction  of  anaemia  in  CRF  patients  (NESP-980202  and 
NESP-980211)  and  for  conversion  from  r-HuEPO  to  darbepoetin  alfa  in  CRF  patients  (controlled 
studies NESP-970200 and NESP-980117; non-controlled studies NESP-980140 and NESP-980160). 
Main Clinical studies  
Correction of anaemia in CRF patients 
The  two  multicentre  randomised  open-label  trials  explored  the  correction  of  anaemia  in  subjects  on 
dialysis (NESP-980211) or pre-dialysis (NESP 980202). The aim of the studies was to correct anaemia 
and maintain haemoglobin concentration within a predefined target range for up to 20 and 24 weeks, 
respectively. Patients were randomised to receive darbepoetin alfa or r-HuEPO. The primary endpoint 
for both studies was defined as the proportion of subjects that achieved a Hb response (Hb increase of 
≥  1.0  g/dl  from  baseline  and  a  Hb  concentration  of  ≥  11.0  g/dl  during  the  initial  24  weeks  of 
treatment). The selected starting dose was 0.45µg/kg once weekly for darbepoetin alfa as suggested by 
the exploratory dose finding studies. The starting dose for r-HuEPO was approximately equivalent to 
this  dose  in  study  NESP-980202  (50  U/kg  twice  weekly),  and  40%  higher  than  this  dose  in  NESP-
980211 (50 U/kg three times weekly). 
In the first pivotal correction study (NESP-980202) r-HuEPO-naive patients were not yet on dialysis 
and study drugs were administered by the subcutaneous route. 129 patients received darbepoetin alfa, 
37 r-HuEPO. The mean ROR in Hb in both treatment groups was within the European Best Practice 
Guideline recommendation (increase of 1 to 2 g/dl per month). A Hb response was achieved in 93% of 
patients in the darbepoetin alfa group and 92% in the rHuEPO group.. Subjects from this study had the 
option to extend dosing up to 104 weeks and were so eligible for long-term efficacy and safety.  
In the second pivotal correction of anaemia study (NESP-980211, US trial) subjects were on dialysis 
(mainly  HD)  and  received  study  drugs  by  SC  or  IV  route.  A  total  of  122  patients  were  randomised 
(darbepoetin alfa: 91; r-HuEPO: 31). The mean ROR in Hb in both treatment groups was within the 
European Best Practice Guideline recommendation. A Hb response was achieved in 72% of patients in 
the darbepoetin alfa group and 84% in the rHuEPO group. This reflects the 40% higher starting dose 
for r-HuEPO in this trial.  
7/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An open label setting was used for this trial since the primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were 
based on Hb response, and as haemoglobin is a standardised and objective measurement, the primary 
and secondary endpoint would not be affected by the open or blinded nature of the study.  
Conversion phase 
Controlled studies 
Two pivotal phase 3 studies (NESP-970200 in Europe and Australia, duration 52 weeks, and NESP-
980117 in  United states and Canada, duration 28  weeks) evaluated the ability of darbepoetin alfa to 
maintain haemoglobin in the predefined target range, when CRF subjects on dialysis and stable on r-
HuEPO  therapy,  were  converted  to  darbepoetin  alfa  therapy.  Patients  in  both  studies  changed  to 
darbepoetin alfa therapy at an equivalent weekly dose but reduced frequency or remained on their r-
HuEPO therapy. The dose of darbepoetin alfa for each patient was calculated in both studies using a 
formula on protein mass basis (200 U r-HuEPO = 1µg darbepoetin alfa). The route of administration 
remained the same as before conversion. There were three time periods of study  
- 
- 
- 
the dose titration period (20 – 24 weeks),  
an evaluation period (8 weeks), 
and the maintenance period (20 weeks) (NESP-970200 only).  
Both studies were “non-inferiority” studies, designed to show that darbepoetin alfa is not inferior to r-
HuEPO  for  treating  anaemia  in  CRF  patients.  The  non-inferiority  design  was  chosen  since  effective 
therapy with r-HuEPO is currently available for treatment of anaemia in patients with CRF European 
Best Practice Guidelines). Darbepoetin alfa would be considered non-inferior to r-HuEPO if the lower 
limit of the 2-sided 95% CI for the mean difference in change in haemoglobin between Darbepoetin 
alfa  and  r-HuEPO  was  above  –0.5  g/dl  (NESP  970200)  and  respectively  –1.0  g/dl  (NESP  980117). 
Beside  the  ROR  of  haemoglobin,  several  secondary  parameter  were  prospectively  defined  to  assess 
stability of haemoglobin measurements over the time.  
Study  970200  is  a  multicentre,  randomised,  open-label,  comparative  study  designed  to  demonstrate 
that IV or SC administration of darbepoetin alfa is comparable to r-HuEPO in preventing of anaemia 
in  CRF  patients  receiving  haemodialysis  or  peritoneal  analysis.  Patients  were  randomised  on  a  2:1 
ratio (Darbepoetin alfa to r-HuEPO) and changed to darbepoetin alfa therapy at an equivalent weekly 
dose but reduced frequency or remained on their r-HuEPO therapy. 344 patients received darbepoetin 
alfa  (39%  IV,  61%  SC),  175  patients  received  r-HuEPO  (42%  IV,  58%  SC).  Patients  received  the 
study drug for up to 52 weeks.  
Study  980117  is  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double  blind  trial  designed  to  demonstrate  that  IV 
darbepoetin alfa is not inferior to IV r-HuEPO for treating anaemia in clinically stable patients with 
CRF  with  chronic  renal  failure  receiving  haemodialysis  and  with  stable  r-HuEPO  therapy.  Patients 
were randomised on a 2:1 ratio (darbepoetin alfa to r-HuEPO) and changed to darbepoetin alfa therapy 
at an equivalent weekly dose but reduced frequency or remained on their r-HuEPO therapy. Due to an 
administrative  error  in  the  randomisation  scheme,  the  treatment  group  allocation  was  reversed  and 
patients were randomised in a 1:2 ratio (darbepoetin alfa to r-HuEPO). 169 patients were treated with 
darbepoetin  alfa,  338  with  r-HuEPO.  The  reversal  in  the  randomisation  process  did  not  affect  the 
statistical power of the treatment group comparison.  
Both  studies  indicate  that  darbepoetin  alfa  was  not  inferior  to  r-HuEPO.  The  lower  boundary  of  the 
95% confidence interval for the difference in mean change in haemoglobin (darbepoetin alfa minus r-
HuEPO) was far above the pre-specified clinical acceptable difference of  –1.0 g/dl for NESP-980117 
as well as above the more rigorous criteria of –0.5 g/dl for the NESP-970200. This applied equally to 
“per  protocol”  and  “intention  to  treat”  analysis  sets  and  demonstrates  that  darbepoetin  alfa  is  not 
inferior to r-HuEPO for maintaining subjects haemoglobin concentration within the predefined target 
range.  The  percentage  of  patients  with  “unstable”  haemoglobin  concentrations,  percentage  of 
haemoglobin  levels  within  the  target  range  and  therapeutic  range  were  similar  in  both  treatment 
8/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups.  In  both  treatment  groups  and  in  both  studies  the  median  dose  of  study  drug  during  the 
evaluation period was the same, and the change in median dose from baseline to evaluation was zero. 
This  indicates  that  the  dosing  conversion  formula  was  an  appropriate  starting  point  for  subjects 
switching  from  r-HuEPO  to  darbepoetin  alfa  therapy.  Nevertheless,  because  of  the  individual 
variability,  and  as  with  rHuEPO,  titration  to  optimal  therapeutic  doses  is  expected  for  individual 
subjects. Overall 97% of darbepoetin alfa treated patients maintained their reduced dose frequency at 
the evaluation period. 
Analyses  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  in  study  970200  by  route  of  administration  and  dialysis 
modality (pre-defined in the protocol) demonstrated that darbepoetin alfa is comparable (not inferior) 
to r-HuEPO for maintaining haemoglobin in chronic renal failure patients.  
Non-controlled studies 
To investigate the long-term safety, a multicentre, open-label, single arm study (NESP-980140) was 
designed to evaluate safety and tolerability of chronic IV or SC darbepoetin alfa-administration for up 
to 52 weeks. The enrolled dialysis patients were on a stable dose of IV or SC r-HuEPO therapy. The 
subjects  were  changed  to  darbepoetin  alfa  at  reduced  dose  frequency.  The  darbepoetin  alfa  starting 
dose  was  based  on  the  previous  r-HuEPO  dose  using  the  conversion  formula.  703  patients  received 
darbepoetin alfa for a mean duration of 45 weeks. The mean haemoglobin was maintained within the 
pre-defined target range and the median weekly dose was also maintained at the same level relative to 
baseline. 96 % of the subjects maintained their reduced dose frequency of darbepoetin alfa. These data 
demonstrate that darbepoetin alfa once weekly/once  every two weeks by the IV or SC route, is safe 
and effective in maintaining Hb in patients with CRF undergoing dialysis.  
A  second  multicentre,  open-label,  single  arm  safety  study  (NESP-980160)  evaluated  the  long-term 
safety  of  darbepoetin  alfa  in  patients  who  had  completed  one  year  of  treatment  on  a  previous 
darbepoetin alfa clinical trial. 552 patients were enrolled with a mean exposure to darbepoetin alfa for 
77  weeks.  Subjects  on  darbepoetin  alfa  IV  or  SC  three-times  weekly  (from  the  NESP-960245  and 
NESP-960246 studies respectively) were switched to a reduced dose frequency, for all other subjects 
dose frequency as well as administration route remained unchanged. Efficacy was reported up to week 
24  of  treatment  in  this  study  (week  76  overall).  The  mean  haemoglobin  was  maintained  within  the 
target range, the median weekly dose was maintained at the same level relative to baseline and 93% 
patients maintained their reduced dose frequency of darbepoetin alfa. More than 85% of subjects were 
within  the  pre-defined  haemoglobin  target  level.  The  data  from  the  interim  analysis  show  that  for 
patients who have already received 52 weeks of darbepoetin alfa treatment, the Hb concentration can 
be safely maintained at a stable level without changes in the average weekly darbepoetin alfa dose.  
Comparability of the subcutaneous and intravenous route of administration 
The  phase  3  studies  formally  demonstrated  the  non-inferiority  of  darbepoetin  alfa  compared  to  r-
HuEPO:  the  double-blind  US  trial  (980117)  was  conducted  in  HD  patients  using  IV  administration, 
reflecting  the  main  clinical  practice  in  the  US;  the  open-label  EU/Australian  trial  (970200)  was 
conducted  in  HD  and  PD  patients  with  both  SC  and  IV  administration,  again  reflection  clinical 
practice  in  these  countries.  In  study  970200  the  analysis  of  the  1°  and  2°  endpoints  by  route  of 
administration and modality of dialysis was pre-specified in the statistical analysis plan.  
The  results  formally  demonstrated  that  for  the  study  population  as  a  whole,  darbepoetin  alfa  is 
comparable  to  r-HuEPO  in  maintaining  the  Hb  level.  In  accordance  with  the  pre-specified  analysis 
plan,  darbepoetin  alfa  has  been  formally  demonstrated  to  be  comparable  to  r-HuEPO  for  the  SC  as 
well the IV route of administration. These results demonstrate that darbepoetin alfa is able to maintain 
Hb as effectively as r-HuEPO for up to 1 year of treatment, regardless of the route of administration 
(IV and SC) or dialysis modality (HD and PD). 
Dose requirements not affected by route of administration 
From the analysis of the data from studies 970200 and 980140 (EU/Aus safety study), the ratio of SC 
to IV r-HuEPO dose requirements was 0.81 and 0.74 after 6 to 12 months, representing a 19% to 26 % 
9/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose  efficiency  with  SC  administration.  This  is  similar  to  that  reported  in  the  literature.  It  has  been 
suggested that the greater efficiency of the SC compared to IV r-HuEPO is due to the more favourable 
pharmacokinetic  profile  following  SC  administration.  In  contrast,  the  ratio  of  SC  to  IV  darbepoetin 
alfa  dose  requirements  was  1.08  and  1.12,  suggesting  on  average,  similar  dose  requirements  are 
necessary  when  darbepoetin  alfa  is  administered  by  either  the  IV  or  SC  route.  The  SC  and  IV  dose 
requirements for darbepoetin alfa were equivalent on a protein mass basis to the SC requirements for 
r-HuEPO.  
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Safety  profile of darbepoetin alfa was  evaluated  in a total of  1578 CRF patients and compared with 
591 patients with r-HuEPO therapy.  
Safety  data  were  analysed  for  the  studies  overall  and  separately  for  the  3  phases  of  treatment 
(correction,  conversion  and  maintenance).  Correction  and  conversion  phase  included  data  up  to  20 
weeks of treatment and the maintenance phase from week 21 to week 52 and from week 52 onwards. 
Only  one  of  the  studies  was  a  randomised  double  blind  study  (study  980117).  The  safety  data  from 
this  study  were  therefore  used  as  standard,  on  which  to  compare  the  combined  safety  data  from  all 
open label studies.  
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
In  the  overall  comparison  of  safety,  the  proportion  of  deaths  was  very  similar  in  the  two  groups 
(Darbepoetin alfa 7% and r-HuEPO 6%), although patients on darbepoetin alfa had a greater exposure 
to treatment due to enrolment on the long-term maintenance protocol. 
When all adverse events were summarised a similar proportion of subjects on darbepoetin alfa (89%) 
and r-HuEPO (95%) experienced one or more events. Those events, considered by the investigator to 
be  treatment  related,  were  25%  in  darbepoetin  alfa  and  14%  in  r-HuEPO.  There  was  a  similar 
proportion  of  treatment  related  adverse  events  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-HuEPO  groups  when 
summarised  separately  for  the  double-blind  study,  which  supports  the  hypothesis  that  subjective 
assessment  of  treatment-relationship  and  severity  of  adverse  events  would  be  biased  against 
darbepoetin alfa in the open-label studies.  
Serious  adverse  events,  and  severe  adverse  events  and  those  serious  and  severe  adverse  events 
considered by the investigator to be treatment-related were similar on darbepoetin alfa and r-HuEPO 
therapy.  
Based on previous experience with r-HuEPO, six adverse events were prospectively defined to be of 
specific interest: hypertension, cerebrovascular disorder, myocardial infarction, convulsions, transient 
ischemic attack and vascular access thrombosis. The most common treatment-related adverse events 
were  hypertension,  vascular  access  thrombosis  and  injection-site  pain  (SC  injection).  Hypertension 
was reported at a similar incidence for darbepoetin alfa and r-HuEPO, and vascular access thrombosis 
occurred  more  frequently  in  r-HuEPO  than  darbepoetin  alfa.  The  other  adverse  events  of  specific 
interest  were  reported  at  very  low  and  similar  incidence  in  both  treatment  groups.  Analysis  of  odds 
ratios for events of specific interest occurring at haemoglobin concentration of > 12g/dl compared to 
10  to  12  g/dl,  indicated  that  there  is  no  increased  risk  for  any  of  these  events  when  haemoglobin 
concentration was > 12g/dl. In addition, injection site discomfort was reported at a higher incidence 
with darbepoetin alfa than r-HuEPO; this adverse event was reported commonly (>1%, ≤10%). 
No  notable  differences  in  the  overall  adverse  event  profiles  between  darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-HuEPO 
were noted when data were analysed by route or frequency of administration,  dose of study drug or 
modality of dialysis. When summarised by patient’s age, incidence of deaths and of serious and severe 
adverse events increased similarly in both treatment groups with age. This reflects either the expected 
pattern  of  deaths  and  adverse  events  that  would  be  anticipated  with  age  than  an  increased  risk 
10/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
associated  with  darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-HuEPO  therapy.  When  summarised  the  overall  incidence  of 
adverse  events  by  race,  Black  patients  had  a  higher  incidence  of  hypertension.  This  is  based  on  the 
known co-morbidity in this population and does not reflect any treatment effect of darbepoetin alfa or 
r-HuEPO. 
As hypertension is the most common adverse event with both darbepoetin alfa and r-HuEPO, and as 
most of deaths where due to cardiac events, control of blood pressure is an important consideration in 
all  CRF  patients  at  study.  There  were  no  overall  changes  in  blood  pressure  or  heart  rate  in  study 
although there was considerable variability in individual blood pressure measurements. 
The  safety  profile  of  darbepoetin  alfa  was  also  evaluated  separately  for  the  3  different  phases  of 
treatment: correction, conversion and maintenance. In correction phase all studies were open-label and 
proportion of patients treated with r-HuEPO was too low for conclusive comparison, but the overall 
proportion of deaths and adverse events did not appear to differ between the groups.   
In  the  conversion  phase  and  in  the  maintenance  phase  there  was  also  no  difference  in  safety  profile 
between the two treatment groups. There was no evidence in the maintenance phase that adverse event 
profile changed as treatment exposure increased to greater than 52 weeks.  
Post Marketing experience: aggravated hypertension, cerebrovascular disorders, myocardial 
infarction, angina pectoris and skin reactions. A warning on possible cross reactivity of epoetin 
antibodies with different epoetins and to a number of adverse drug reactions is been also added in the 
SPC. 
Laboratory findings 
Due to nature of disease and its treatment, patients with CRF commonly experience marked changes 
in  some  laboratory  parameters.  Therefore  modified  reference  ranges  for  laboratory  parameters  were 
defined. There were no consistent changes in individual parameters, that could be attributed to study 
drug.  
Immunogenicity of darbepoetin alfa 
Due to theoretical concern of antibody formation to darbepoetin alfa, serum was collected and assayed 
regularly in all studies for seroreactivity. A total of 1534 darbepoetin alfa subjects and 572 r-HuEPO 
subjects have been tested with exposure up to 20 weeks, up to 21 to 52 and greater than 52 weeks. No 
patient had a confirmed  seroreactive assay in either treatment group. There was discussion as to the 
sensitivity  and  specificity  of  the  current  standard  antibody  assays.  The  company  committed  to 
investigate  ways  of  improving  their  current  assays  or  developing  new  assays  for  detecting  potential 
darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-HuEPO  antibodies,  and  to  provide  updated  antibody  monitoring  data  from 
study 980160 as a post-marketing agreement. 
Analysis of the safety database did not show any difference in incidence of ‘allergic” (potentially IgE 
mediated)  adverse  events  among  darbepoetin  alfa-treated  subjects  compared  with  rHu-EPO-treated 
subjects,  regardless  of  whether  the  subjects  had  a  history  of  allergy  or  whether  the  study  drug  was 
administered SC or IV.  
5. 
• 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The finished product is supplied as a sterile, colourless solution at various concentrations and volumes 
in Pre-filled Syringes and vials for single use. 
The  integrity  of  the  active  substance  (darbepoetin  alfa)  during  manufacturing  process,  storage  and 
handling, as well as the impact of different formulation components was studied extensively using a 
variety  of  analytical  techniques.  The  active  substance  is  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO) 
cells by recombinant DNA technology. The development genetics are adequately described. The cell 
11/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bank system used for production is adequately described. Testing on both the master and working cell 
banks has been performed according to the ICH guideline Q5D. 
None of the excipients is of animal origin. Foetal bovine serum (FBS) was a constituent of the growth 
medium,  both  for  the  development  of  MCB/WCB  and  seeding  phases  in  culture  vessels.  Scientific 
information  was  included  in  the  original  application,  allowing  the  rapporteur  to  conclude  that  this 
reagent  complies  with  the  requirements  of  the  TSE  Note  for  Guidance.  On  22  November  2000,  the 
applicant submitted TSE certificates for two of the suppliers of this FBS. The certificate for the third 
supplier of FBS is pending. No other reagents on animal origin, covered by the scope of the TSE Note 
for Guidance are used in or during the manufacture of Aranesp. 
Product specifications, control methods and validation for the active substance, excipients and finished 
product  are  adequate.  The  storage  period  for  both  pharmaceutical  forms  (vials  and  syringes)  is  18 
months at 2-8°C.  
Appropriate  commitments  were  made  by  the  company  to  provide,  after  authorisation,  further 
information on various parts of the documentation. 
• 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Preclinical data were presented in order to justify, whether darbepoetin alfa can be considered as an 
alternative  therapy  to  r-HuEPO.  Its  erythrogenic,  pharmacological  action  was  dose-related  and 
restricted  to  erythropoietic  cells  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  The  effects  were  reversible  on  cessation  of 
dosing. The toxicity profile of darbepoetin alfa was demonstrated to be widely identical to that of r-
HuEPO,  and  adverse  effects  in  the  tests  could  be  interpreted  as  being  due  to  an  exaggerated 
pharmacological  effect  (i.e.  polycythemia,  hematocrit  >  60%),  rather  than  related  to  the  serum 
concentration of darbepoetin alfa. Serum reactivity against darbepoetin alfa has sometimes been seen 
in animals, but only after very high doses. It has not led to loss of the effect of injected darbepoetin 
alfa,  nor  did  it  appear  to  interfere  with  the  normal  control  of  erythropoiesis.  The  pharmacodynamic 
differences  between  darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-HuEPO  were  principally  shown  to  be  in  line  with  the 
theory about the role of sialylation grade of the glycan residue. In comparison to r-HuEPO, the pre-
clinical findings with darbepoetin alfa did not raise any additional issues of concern for clinical safety.  
• 
Efficacy 
The pharmacokinetics of darbepoetin alfa was examined in adult CRF patients on dialysis by IV and 
SC route after single and multiple dosing at different dosing frequencies. The pharmacokinetic studies 
showed that darbepoetin alfa has a slower clearance and a significantly longer terminal half-life when 
compared  to  r-HuEPO.  Multiple  dose  pharmacokinetic  studies  and  darbepoetin  alfa  trough  level 
concentrations  confirmed  that  there  is  no  accumulation  of  darbepoetin  alfa  over  the  time.  The 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  darbepoetin  alfa  was  similar  in  adult  and  paediatric  CRF  patients. 
However,  due  to  the  lack  of  clinical  data  in  young  paediatric  patients  (≤11  years),  darbepoetin  alfa 
should  only  be  used  in  children  ≥11  years  of  age  until  more  data  become  available.  No 
pharmacokinetic  studies  were  specifically  performed  for  elderly  CRF  subjects.  However,  elderly 
patients were adequately represented in the study population (42% of patients at study were ≥ 65 years 
of  age).  Analysis  of  more  than  700  darbepoetin  alfa  trough  level  concentrations  demonstrated  that 
elderly CRF patients were not at higher risk of darbepoetin alfa accumulation than CRF subjects ≤ 65 
years  of  age.  The  bioequivalence  study  in  healthy  subjects  indicated  that  the  HSA+  and  HSA- 
formulations of darbepoetin alfa are bioequivalent. 
Correction of anaemia was studied in CRF patients on dialysis and pre-dialysis by IV and SC route. A 
starting dose of 0.45µg/kg administered once weekly was effective for increasing the Hb. Rate of rise 
of haemoglobin (1 to 2 g/dl per month for clinical use of r-HuEPO) and the target haemoglobin range 
(11 to 13 g/dl) were in accordance to the recommendations in the European Best Practice Guidelines. 
Comparison with r-HuEPO as comparator drug suggested that effect of darbepoetin alfa was similar to 
that of r-HuEPO when equivalent doses were used. A total of 328 CRF subjects on darbepoetin alfa 
12/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and 68 CRF patients on r-HuEPO were investigated for correction of anaemia, a sample size, which is 
sufficient to verify the efficacy of darbepoetin alfa to correct anaemia in CRF subjects.  
The  conversion  studies  showed  that  darbepoetin  alfa  could  maintain  a  patient’s  haemoglobin 
concentration  as  effectively  as  r-HuEPO  with  less  frequent  dosing.  darbepoetin  alfa  dose  can  be 
calculated  from  previously  administered  r-HuEPO  dose  using  a  dose-conversion  formula  which 
equates  the  protein  mass  of  the  two  molecules  (200  U  r-HuEPO  =  1  µg  darbepoetin  alfa).  Less 
frequent dosing does not lead to greater instability of haemoglobin concentration than with r-HuEPO. 
After correction of anaemia and conversion from r-HuEPO to darbepoetin alfa patients continued to be 
treated  with  darbepoetin  alfa  to  maintain  Hb  concentration.  Haemoglobin  concentration  was  well 
controlled for up to more than 1 year. There was no evidence of any change in dose or frequency of 
darbepoetin alfa treatment indicating drug accumulation or diminution of the effect. In the conversion 
studies (including dose- and schedule-finding studies) darbepoetin alfa was evaluated in 1248 patients 
and  compared  with  525  r-HuEPO  patients.  This  sample  size  is  sufficient  to  verify  the  efficacy  of 
darbepoetin alfa to maintain a subjects haemoglobin concentration within the predefined target range. 
The majority of patients then continued into the maintenance phase.  
In accordance with the pre-specified analysis plan, darbepoetin alfa has been formally demonstrated to 
be  comparable  to  r-HuEPO  for  the  SC  as  well  the  IV  route  of  administration.  These  results 
demonstrate that darbepoetin alfa is able to maintain Hb as effectively as r-HuEPO for up to 1 year 
treatment,  regardless  of  the  route  of  adminstration  (IV  and  SC)  or  dialysis  modality  (HD  and  PD). 
From  the  analysis  of  the  rHuEPO  treated  patients  in  studies  970200  and  980140  (EU/Aus  safety 
study),  the  ratio  of  SC  to  IV  r-HuEPO  dose  requirements  was  0.81  and  0.74  after  6  to  12  months, 
representing  a  19%  to  26  %  dose  efficiency  with  SC  administration  (similar  to  that  reported  in  the 
literature).  In  contrast,  the  ratio  of  SC  to  IV  darbepoetin  alfa  dose  requirements  was  1.08  and  1.12, 
suggesting  that  on  average,  similar  dose  requirements  are  necessary  when  darbepoetin  alfa  is 
administered by either the IV or SC route. The SC and IV dose requirements for darbepoetin alfa were 
the same as the SC requirements for r-HuEPO. 
•  Safety 
The safety profile of darbepoetin alfa was assessed in 1578 CRF patients treated with darbepoetin alfa 
and  591  treated  with  r-HuEPO.  847  of  1578  (54  %)  received  SC  darbepoetin  alfa.  Adverse  events 
were consistent across all studies and were similar in the two treatment groups – darbepoetin alfa and 
r-HuEPO.  The  majority  of  AE  were  due  to  underlying  disease.  Only  hypertension,  vascular  access 
thrombosis and injection-site pain (SC route) were consistently reported as related to study drug. 
The duration of treatment with darbepoetin alfa for safety evaluation exceeds the extent of population 
exposure to assess clinical safety (ICH-E1 guideline).  
The  clinical  results  showed  that  the  safety  profile  of  darbepoetin  alfa  is  similar  to  that  of  r-HuEPO 
when administered by the IV or SC route. The Odds-ratio (95 % CI) between darbepoetin alfa and r-
HuEPO  for  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  showed  that  there  is  no  evidence  that  adverse  events 
occurred more frequently with IV darbepoetin alfa compared to r-HuEPO therapy. When administered 
by the SC route, the only event that occurred more frequently during darbepoetin alfa treatment was 
injection site pain. 
The  company  committed  to  investigate  ways  of  improving  their  current  assays,  or  developing  new 
assays,  for  detecting  potential  darbepoetin  alfa  and  r-HuEPO  antibodies,  and  to  provide  updated 
antibody monitoring data from study 980160 as a post-marketing agreement. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Aranesp  was  favourable  in  the  following  indications:  Treatment  of 
anaemia associated with chronic renal failure in adults and paediatric subjects ≥ 11 years of age. 
13/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Treatment  of  anaemia  in  adult  cancer  patients  with  solid  tumours  (non-haematological 
malignancies) receiving chemotherapy 
6.1 
Introduction 
Patients with anaemia  have  a reduction in  RBC  mass and hgb, which translates  in a  decrease  in the 
oxygen-carrying capacity of their blood. Normal hgb concentrations are between 12 and 18 g/dl, with 
slight  variations  due  to  methodological  differences  between  laboratories.  Anaemia  is  common  in 
patients with cancer and has a multifactorial aetiology. It may be related to the malignancy itself and 
its extent, as well as to the type, duration and intensity of myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Moreover, 
most patients with cancer have been shown to have inappropriately low levels of circulating EPO for 
their degree of anaemia, reflecting a change in this homeostatic mechanism. The incidence of anaemia 
severe enough to result in blood transfusions may be as high as 60 % in certain tumour types. Anaemic 
patients  with  cancer  may  experience  symptoms  as  fatigue,  dizziness,  shortness  of  breath,  and 
cardiovascular symptoms such as palpitations and cardiac failure. Such clinical sequelae may decrease 
the  quality  of  life  of  these  patients.  Furthermore,  a  potential  relationship  between  the  correction  of 
anaemia and increased survival in patients receiving chemotherapy has recently been discussed. 
Currently,  therapeutic  options  for  anaemia  in  cancer  patients  are  RBC  transfusions  or  r-HuEPO. 
Transfusion  of  RBCs  can  be  associated  with  non-haemolytic  and  haemolytic  transfusion  reactions, 
iron  overload  in  heavily  transfused  patients,  or  the  transmission  of  infections.  Safety  and  screening 
requirements  in transfusion therapy  have increased the logistics  and  cost  of  transfusion  therapy thus 
restricting  transfusions  to  cases  of  severe  and/or  symptomatic  anaemia.  r-HuEPO  has  provided  an 
alternative  to  blood  transfusions  in  the  treatment  of  symptomatic  anaemia  which  is  still  not  severe 
enough  to  merit  transfusions  with  current  policies.  However,  a  clear  dose  response  relationship  for 
rHuEPO  has  not  been  established,  and  40%  to  50%  of  patients  show  no  hgb  response  at  all  or  a 
delayed response.  
6.2  Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The highest pack size currently approved is 0.6 ml of a 500 µg/ml solution. The MAH has applied for 
a new pre-filled syringe pack size (1.0 ml of a 500 µg/ml solution) arguing that when a dose increase 
to  4.5 µg/kg/week  is  required,  heavier  patients  may  need  2  injections  from  the  currently  approved 
range of prefilled syringes to receive the correct dose.  
The  manufacturing  process  remains  unchanged  for  the  additional  dosage  strength  and  the  new 
packsize is covered by the validation program provided in the original application. Batch analysis data 
for  3  lots  of  the  additional  presentation  are  provided  and  the  results  are  within  the  approved 
specification.  The  container  closure  system  remains  unchanged.  Additional  stability  studies  are  not 
required  since  full  time  stability  data  covering  the  shelf  life  of  24  months  at  2-8°C  for  all  dosage 
strengths have been previously evaluated. The additional dosage  strength of 500 µg in 1ml prefilled 
syringe is thus approvable. 
6.3  Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  MAH  has  undertaken  a  sequence  of  preclinical  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  to  support  the 
oncologic 
to  address  outstanding 
studies  have  been 
pharmacodynamic questions.  
indication.  Additional 
submitted 
14/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Summary of preclinical studies submitted. 
Study Title 
In vitro activity of desialylated (DS) NESP and rHuEPO on human erythroid 
progenitor cells 
Limited tissue in vitro binding study of de-sialylated novel erythropoietin stimulating 
protein and erythropoietin to human tissue 
Limited tissue in vitro binding study of de-sialylated novel erythropoietin 
stimulating protein and de-sialylated erythropoietin to human tissue 
Pilot pharmacokinetic study to determine the effect of a partial hepatectomy on the 
clearance of NESP, rHuEPO, and 3H-mannitol in male Sprague-Dawley rats 
following a single intravenous administration 
Dose and dosing frequency of NESP in normal mice 
NESP relative to single dose chemotherapy 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic multidose study of NESP administered 
subcutaneously to female BDF-mice following carboplatin and irradiation exposure 
Effect of NESP dose and scheduling in a murine model of multicycle chemo- and 
radiotherapy  
4-week toxicity and toxicokinetic study of NESP and G-CSF in the rat via 
subcutaneous administration with a 4-week recovery 
Study 
Number 
01-0128 
10 11 19 
10 12 80 
10 11 57 
01-025 
PP 01-101 
10 12 69 
01-026 
10 11 85 and 
10 11 85 TK 
Huntingdon 
00-2676 
Pharmacodynamics related to the proposed indication 
The  anaemia  caused  by  renal  impairment  is  mainly  due  to  limited  production  of  endogenous  EPO, 
whereas  anaemia  in  cancer  is  multifactorial.  The  causes  may  include  intrinsic  factors  such  as 
proliferative  defects  in  stem  cells,  multiple  intrinsic  causes  such  as  chronic  disorders,  marrow 
infiltration, or nutritional deficiency. There may also exist extrinsic causes like mechanical erythrocyte 
destruction such as microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia; chemically induced anaemia e.g. by cancer 
chemotherapy); infection-induced anaemia; antibody-mediated processes; hypersplenism and occult or 
overt blood loss. Thus, the different disease processes and treatments may in turn affect the response 
to erythropoetins. 
To  determine  the  dose/frequency  relationship  of  darbepoetin  alfa  and  to  provide  a  link  to  previous 
preclinical  reports,  detailed  studies  were  undertaken  to  establish  the  interval  between  injections  and 
the amount of darbepoetin alfa required to obtain a defined hgb response. In study 01-025, darbepoetin 
alfa  was  administered  to  mice  across  a  range  of  doses  and  at  frequencies  ranging  from  continuous 
infusion to 1 injection every 4 weeks. It was established that the dose of darbepoetin alfa required to 
obtain  a  mean  incremental  rise  in  hgb  of  1g/dl  increased  logarithmically  as  the  interval  between 
injections was increased. As previously established, the slower clearance of darbepoetin alfa relative 
to r-HuEPO allows less frequent injections to support a similar increment in hgb levels. These results 
indicate, however, that there may be a limit to the dosing interval. From these data, it is impossible to 
determine  where  that  limitation  may  be  in  humans,  as  the  lifespan  of  erythrocytes  in  mice  is 
considerably shorter than in humans (40 days compared to the reported 120-days in normal humans). 
Moreover, the largely unknown and potentially highly variable red cell lifespan in patients with cancer 
adds another layer of complexity. 
The  influence  of  extrinsic  or  iatrogenic  causes  of  anaemia  such  as  chemotherapy  was  studied  in 
another  series  of  experiments  as  part  of  study  PP  01-101.  The  administration  of  darbepoetin  alfa  at 
various times relative to a series of different chemotherapy agents was studied to gain insight into the 
suppression  of  erythropoiesis  caused  by  a  broad  range  of  chemotherapy  agents  with  disparate 
mechanisms  of  action.  The  effects  on  anaemia  induction  decreased  in  the  following  order: 
Carboplatin/irradiation > 5-FU > Cyclophosphamide > Busulfan. The magnitude of the increase in hgb 
was  dependent  on  the  number  of  days  of  pre-treatment,  with  a  longer  interval  between  darbepoetin 
alfa and chemotherapy administration leading to higher pre-treatment hgb levels. On the other hand, 
15/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
there was no evidence of sensitisation of the erythroid compartment with darbepoetin alfa regardless 
of the timing of the administration. Further, it is speculated that the cohort of erythrocytes produced by 
the  early  darbepoetin  alfa  exposure  was  more  resistant  to  the  effect  of  treatment  than  the  normal 
population of the red cells. This may be an effect of the age distribution of the circulating erythrocytes. 
In  a  second  series  of  experiments  in  female  mice  (01-026),  a  model  of  multicycle  combined 
chemo/radiotherapy  was  developed  and  used  to  examine  the  effects  of  darbepoetin  alfa  dosing  as 
marrow  damage  accumulated  over  several  cycles  of  therapy.  While  in  earlier  cycles  expected 
pharmacological  responses  were  observed,  due  to  incremental  cytotoxic  damage  of  myeloid  stem 
cells, the same doses failed to restore normal values in the latter two cycles. An increase in the doses 
of darbepoetin alfa during later cycles could be an alternative to overcome the problem of decreased 
bone marrow response. 
A  series  of  follow-up  studies  to  the  original  in  vitro  binding  study  with  intact  darbepoetin  alfa  and 
rHuEPO (study report 100160 in the original MAA) were carried out to address issues raised  in the 
initial MAA. Study 01-028 assessed the in vitro activity in erythroid progenitor assays of desialylated 
(DS) versions of rHuEPO and darbepoetin alfa. Both proteins possessed more in vitro BFU-E colony-
stimulating activity than their fully sialylated counterparts and were also identical in terms of potency 
for  colony  induction.  Thus,  the  altered  primary  structure  of  darbepoetin  alfa  has  no  effect  on  its 
binding  affinity  to  its  receptor  or  on  its  biological  activity  in  vitro.  Limited  tissue  in-vitro  binding 
studies (studies 101119 and 101280) were conducted to prove that the desialylated molecules do not 
bind  to  extraneous  receptors  and  would  not  be  a  concern  for  carcinogenic  or  proliferative  effects  in 
human  tissues.  The  results  with  the  partially  and  fully  desialylated  forms  of  darbepoetin  alfa  and 
rHuEPO  were  identical  to  the  characteristics  exhibited  previously  by  intact  darbepoetin  alfa  and 
rHuEPO and consistent with binding to the EPO receptor. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two  additional  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  conducted  in  support  of  the  oncology  indication. 
Study 101157 investigated the role of the liver in the clearance of intact darbepoetin alfa via a partial 
hepatectomy  study  in  rats  and  did  not  implicate  the  liver  as  a  major  clearance  organ  for  intact 
darbepoetin  alfa.  Although  desialylation  and  subsequent  removal  by  the  liver  is  thought  to  be  the 
major clearance pathway for darbepoetin alfa, there is the possibility that the bone marrow may play a 
role in either the distribution or clearance of darbepoetin alfa. Study 101269 investigated the impact of 
multicycle chemo/radiation therapy on pharmacokinetic (PK) properties of darbepoetin alfa. The half-
life  of  darbepoetin  alfa  was  increased  immediately  following  chemo/radiation  therapy  but  tended 
towards normal values by week 4 of the cycle, suggesting an influence of the extent of myeloablation 
in the PK properties of darbepoetin alfa. 
Toxicology 
A  4-week  toxicity  and  toxicokinetic  study  (101185)  with  a  4-week  recovery  period  has  been 
conducted in rats (n= 20 or 30 per group) to assess the toxicity and toxicokinetics of darbepoetin alfa 
and  rHuG-CSF  when  administered  in  combination  at  sc  doses  as  high  as  100 µg/kg/week  and 
1000 µg/kg/day  respectively  for  4  weeks.  Expected  pharmacological  effects  were  observed, 
erythropoiesis  with  darbepoetin  alfa  and  granulopoiesis  with  rHuG-CSF.  Respective  ELISA  tests 
showed a high, dose-dependent incidence of antibodies to rHuG-CSF and a low non dose-dependent 
incidence  (13/120  animals)  of  antibodies  to  darbepoetin  alfa.  A  cell-based  test  for  darbepoetin  alfa 
antibodies  revealed  9  animals  (between  1  and  3  animals  per  group)  had  neutralising  antibodies  to 
darbepoetin  alfa  with  no  dose-dependency  observed.  Eight  of  these  9  animals  with  neutralising 
antibodies  had  decreases  in  reticulocytes  at  week  4.  Changes  in  bone  remodelling  and  osseous 
proliferation  (e.g.  hypertrophic  osteopathy,  myelofibrosis,  remodeling  of  endosteal  and  periosteal 
bone) were present in the skeleton of the extremities of many animals. 
The  toxicokinetics  of  rHuG-CSF  and  darbepoetin  alfa
  administered  in  combination  were  also 
characterised in this study. For a given dose of darbepoetin alfa, high co-administration of rHuG-CSF 
had  little  impact  on  haematocrit.  Differences  in  relative  clearance  and/or  the  volume  of  distribution 
after  multiple  administrations  were  observed  and  were  probably  secondary  to  antibody  formation 
16/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
against darbepoetin when given in this combination. Formation of anti-drug antibodies is a common 
finding when administering non-rodent proteins into a rodent model system. It was recognised that PK 
or immunogenic effects of this combination have not been reported in any patients treated with rHuG-
CSF and darbepoetin alfa.  
Conclusion 
Overall, the pharmacokinetic data show that the intrinsic pharmacologic properties of darbepoetin alfa 
are comparable to those of r-HuEPO, but the increased sialic acid content allows less frequent dosing 
and  superior  performance  to  similarly  administered  r-HuEPO.  New  dosing  paradigms  can  be 
developed to exploit the extended half-life of darbepoetin alfa, which lead to effective support of hgb 
in  the  anaemias  of  chronic  disorders,  single  cycle  multiagent  chemotherapy  and  multiple  cycle 
combination chemo/radiation therapy.  
The toxicological findings in the darbepoetin alfa/GCSF combination study (101185) are not regarded 
to be of major concern given the relatively high doses administered, the extended treatment time with 
rHuG-CSF (1 month compared to 5-7 days in humans), a low or absent dose-response relationship, the 
apparent species-specific nature of the effects (absent in monkeys and humans), and the fact that the 
adverse  event  spectrum  in  humans  does  not  greatly  differ  from  the  better  known  combination  of 
rHuEPO  with  rHuG-CSF.  Regarding  the  immunogenicity  findings,  the  high  doses  administered  and 
the  longer  treatment  time  with  rHuG-CSF  are  acknowledged.  Although  anti-darbepoetin  alfa 
antibodies have not been detected in clinical trials. The MAH has committed to further studying both 
the possible antigenicity of darbepoetin alpha and immunologically mediated events. 
6.4  Clinical aspects 
Four  clinical  studies,  designed  to  investigate  darbepoetin  alfa  in  patients  with  solid  tumours  and 
receiving  platinum  or  non-platinum  containing 
lymphoproliferative  malignancies 
chemotherapy,  were  included  in  the  submission.  In  addition,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of 
darbepoetin alfa in cancer patients, and the dose-response relationship of various dosing schedules and 
across various tumour types and chemotherapy regimens were addressed. The studies were conducted 
in  Europe,  USA,  Costa  Rica,  Australia,  and  Canada  in  accordance  with  Good  Clinical  Practice.  An 
overview of the clinical program is given below.  
(LPD) 
Table 2 Overview of the clinical Trials 
Study 
No. 
Type of trial 
Schedule a  Comparator 
990146  Pharmac
o kinetic 
990114  Dose 
Chemotherapy Cancer 
patients 
Chemotherapy LPD b 
QW 
QW 
Response 
n 
darbepoetin 
alfa/comp/Total 
29 
None 
Placebo 
55/11/66 
980290  Dose 
Chemotherapy Solid 
QW and Q2W  RHuEPO 
344/85/429 
Response 
Tumors 
980291  Dose 
Chemotherapy Solid 
Q3W 
Placebo 
198/51/249 
Response 
Tumors 
980297  Phase III  Chemotherapy 
(Platinum Rx) 
Lung 
cancer  
QW 
Placebo 
156/158/314 
a Schedule of administration: QW = once weekly; Q2W = every 2 weeks; Q3W = every 3 weeks  
b LPD = Lymphoproliferative malignancies (eg multiple myeloma, Hodgkin’s Disease and Non Hodgkin’s 
Lymphoma) 
Data  from  a  phase  2  dose  finding  study  (990111)  conducted  in  patients  with  cancer  not  receiving 
chemotherapy was also submitted by the MAH, but was outside the scope of the indication and hence 
was not assessed in this procedure. 
17/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pivotal trial (980297) darbepoetin alfa was compared to placebo in patients receiving platinum-
containing chemotherapy in lung cancer. The design was based on the assumption that the European 
standard  of  care  is  still  RBC  transfusions  in  patients  with  severe  and/or  symptomatic  anemia.  It  is 
worth  noting  that  the  MAH  sought  scientific  advice  from  the  EMEA/CPMP  (November  1999)  with 
regards to the acceptability of hgb response as a primary endpoint for a pivotal registration study and 
from the FDA on the design of the pivotal trial. The CPMP advised the design of a non-inferiority trial 
with  the  active  comparator  rHuEPO  and  hgb  response  was  regarded  as  an  appropriate  primary 
endpoint. 
Supportive  studies  included  two  dose  response  studies  evaluating  weekly  administration  of 
darbepoetin  alfa.  An  open-label  randomized,  rHuEPO  controlled  phase  II  trial  (980290  part  A)  in 
patients  with  solid  tumours  receiving  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  and  a  randomized,  double  blind, 
placebo  controlled  phase  I/II  trial  (990114)  in  patients  with  lymphoproliferative  disorders  receiving 
cytotoxic  chemotherapy.  Additional  data  from  two  other  dose-finding  studies  (980290  part  B  and 
980291) at  alternative schedules (every 2 week and  every 3 week administration, respectively) were 
also included. 
Clinical Pharmacology/Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  darbepoetin  alfa  were  assessed  in  one  study  specifically  designed  for  this 
purpose (study 990146). Additional PK data were also obtained from a phase II dose-response study 
(study 980290). 
Study 990146 
The primary objective of this open-label study was to assess the pk profile of weekly darbepoetin alfa 
therapy  administered  subcutaneously  or  intravenously  in  subjects  with  non-myeloid  malignancy 
receiving  multicycle  chemotherapy.  Subjects  were  treated  with  weekly  sc  darbepoetin  alfa  during 
3 cycles of chemotherapy. Darbepoetin alfa was administered at a starting dose of 2.25 µg/kg and was 
increased at week 7 to 4.5 µg/kg in those subjects who had an absolute hgb concentration ≤ 12.0 g/dl 
and  who  did  not  exhibit  a  hgb  response  (defined  as  an  increase  > 1.0 g/dl  over  baseline)  during  the 
initial  6 weeks  of  treatment.  Pharmacokinetic  samples,  including  weekly  trough  samples,  were 
collected  throughout  the  study.  Intensive  pharmacokinetic  profiles  over  168 hours  were  assessed 
during  the  first  week  in  both  the  first  and  third  cycles  of  chemotherapy.  EPO  (endogenous)  and 
darbepoetin alfa serum concentrations were determined using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA).  
Results 
Overall 29 patients (21 had solid tumours and 8 lymphoproliferative malignancies) were enrolled and 
received at least one dose of darbepoetin alfa.  
The  results  indicate  that  darbepoetin  alfa  is  slowly  absorbed  after  sc  administration,  reaching  mean 
peak  concentrations  approximately  91  hours  (median  =  94.5)  hours  after  a  single  dose,  with  no 
apparent  difference  observed  after  multiple  doses  ofdarbepoetin  alfa,  although  small  expected 
increases  (<2-fold)  in  darbepoetin  alfa  serum  concentrations  were  observed  as  steady  state  was 
approached. Mean peak darbepoetin alfa serum concentrations after single (10.6 ng/ml) and multiple 
(11.3 ng/ml) doses slightly increased as expected, with no unexpected accumulation over the 7 to 9-
week  dosing  period.  In  general,  the  weekly  darbepoetin  alfa  trough  serum  concentrations  within  a 
cycle  followed  a  similar  pattern  in  each  cycle,  increasing  to  a  peak  in  week  2  with  a  subsequent 
decline  in  weeks  3  and  4.  Analysis  of  pre-  darbepoetin  alfa  dose  trough  levels  (cmin)  revealed  an 
approximately 3-fold increase of " darbepoetin alfa trough serum levels" during the first week of each 
chemotherapy  cycle,  suggesting  possible  confounding  fluctuations  in  endogenous  EPO  serum 
concentrations due to either induction of endogenous EPO or suppression of the bone marrow by the 
chemotherapy administered. This hypothesis has been verified by analysing data from study 980291 
and  reanalysing  data  from  990146  with  the  new  F12  monoclonal  antibody  ELISA,  specific  for 
endogenous  EPO  and  which  does  not  detect  darbepoetin  alfa.  This  analysis  has  confirmed  that 
endogenous EPO accounts for approximately 30-40% of the trough sample composite signal. Taking 
18/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
into account the normalisation of the pk data to correct for endogenous EPO, the overall findings in 
this study are considered representative of the pk properties of darbepoetin alfa. 
An  additional  intravenous  (iv)  arm  was  intended  to  support  the  potential  iv  administration  of 
darbepoetin  alfa  in  future  studies.  As  expected,  darbepoetin  alfa  peak  serum  concentrations  were 
substantially  higher  following  iv  versus  sc  dosing.  The  PK  properties  of  darbepoetin  alfa  remained 
constant over time, and no drug accumulation was observed. 
Study 980290 A 
This was a randomised open-label dose-finding, active-controlled multicentre study of sc darbepoetin 
alfa for  the  treatment  of anaemia in subjects with solid tumours  receiving  multicycle chemotherapy. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  safety  of  darbepoetin  alfa  administered  once  a  week.  PK 
assessment was a secondary objective. Seven dose levels of darbepoetin alfa were evaluated (0.5, 1.0, 
1.5, 2.25, 4.5, 6 and 8 µg/kg) administered weekly for a period of 12 weeks. Subjects randomised to 
receive rHuEPO received 150 U/kg 3 times/week with a dose doubling at week 8 if the initial response 
to  therapy  was  inadequate.  No  such  dose  increases  were  permitted  for  the  darbepoetin  alfa  dose 
cohorts. 
The  efficacy  assessments  included  change  in  the  hgb  concentration  from  baseline,  the  proportion  of 
subjects who achieved a hgb response (increase of ≥ 2g/dl from baseline without a RBC transfusion in 
the  preceding  28  days)  and  the  time  to  hgb  response.  Since  subjects  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  groups 
were not permitted to increase dose during the study treatment period whereas subjects in the rHuEPO 
control  arm  were  allowed  to  increase  dose  in  the  case  of  lack  of  response,  direct  comparison  of 
efficacy between the darbepoetin alfa dose cohorts and the rHuEPO control is confounded.  
The intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis set is the primary data set. PK data were generated in a subgroup of 
patients at trough and 48 hours post-dosing.  
Results 
Pharmacokinetics 
Trough  and  48-hour  post-dose  data  from  211  patients  were  analysed.  Both  mean  trough  serum 
concentrations  and  48-hour  post-dose  serum  concentrations  at  week  12  were  higher  (about  1.6  fold) 
than at week 4 for all dose groups. Overall, results were consistent with dose-linearity, generally time-
linear pk and minimal accumulation of darbepoetin alfa.  
Two hundred and eighty eight patients were randomised, 269 received at least one dose of study drug 
and 175 subjects completed study treatment. A total of 216 patients received darbepoetin alfa, whereas 
53  subjects  received  rHuEPO.  Baseline  demographics  and  disease  characteristics  such  as  primary 
tumor type or disease stage were similar for rHuEPO- and the all-darbepoetin alfa group. 
The  mean  duration  of  exposure  was  approximately  10  weeks  in  both  treatment  arms  and  the  mean 
weight-adjusted  average  weekly  dose  for  all  darbepoetin  alfa  groups  was  very  close  to  the  planned 
doses. 
Safety 
Deaths  were  comparable  between  the  treatment  groups  (8%  darbepoetin  alfa  vs.11%  rHuEPO)  and 
were  mainly  due  to  disease  progression.  Two  subjects  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group  experienced 
bilateral pulmonary emboli and discontinued study drug. Serious adverse events (SAE) were reported 
in a higher proportion of subjects in the rHuEPO group (43% vs.29%). A higher proportion of subjects 
in the 8.0 µg/kg/week cohort reported SAEs compared with the other darbepoetin alfa dose cohorts. 
Two  SAEs  were  considered  treatment  related  (darbepoetin  alfa)  by  the  investigators:  deep  vein 
thrombosis and gastrointestinal bleeding. 
19/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  the  incidence  and  type  of  adverse  events  were  comparable  among  treatment  groups. 
Treatment related injection site pain was noted (mostly mild to moderate in intensity) and this finding 
was reflected in the SPC.  
No  dose-response  relationship  was  observed  for  the  incidence  of  adverse  events.  No  clear  dose 
limiting  toxicities  were  apparent  for  the  administered  doses.  No  serum  samples  were  reactive  in  the 
anti- darbepoetin alfa antibody screening. 
Efficacy 
An  apparent  dose-response  effect  at  doses  of  0.5  to  4.5  µg/kg  was  observed  for  the  Kaplan-Meier 
proportions of subjects achieving a hgb response and for the Kaplan-Meier proportion of subjects who 
achieved a hgb correction, with the maximum effect observed in the 4.5 µg/kg/week dose cohort and 
no  apparent  additional  benefit  at  doses  of  6.0  and  8.0 µg/kg/week.  Weekly  doses  of  2.25  µg/kg 
resulted in at least  50%  of subjects achieving  a hgb  response. There was  no apparent  dose-response 
relationship for the proportion of patients receiving a transfusion from week 5 to the end of treatment 
(EOTP). 
Due to the confounding influence of rHuEPO dose increases, the study was not designed to allow for 
formal comparisons of efficacy between rHuEPO and darbepoetin alfa. However, the dose regimen of 
4.5 µg/kg once weekly appeared to be more active [e.g. mean (SE) change in hgb concentration from 
baseline  of  1.9g/dL  (0.32)]  compared  with  the  rHuEPO  150  IU/kg  3  times  a  week/group  (1.1g/dL 
(0.25),  whereas  the  1.5  and  2.25 µg/kg  doses  (1.1g/dL  (0.28)  and  1.3g/dL  (0.23)  respectively) 
appeared to have similar activity compared to rHuEPO.  
Clinical efficacy: pivotal trial 
The pivotal trial 980297 was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised study of darbepoetin alfa 
for  the  treatment  of  anaemia  in  lung  cancer  subjects  receiving  multicycle  platinum-containing 
chemotherapy. Three hundred and twenty patients with either non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) or 
small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) were included into the trial in Europe, Australia and Canada. Patients 
with  hgb  concentrations  of  ≤ 11.0 g/dl  could  participate  if  their  anaemia  was  predominantly  due  to 
cancer  or  chemotherapy.  Patients  who  had  received  more  than  4  RBC  transfusions  within  the  last  4 
weeks or any transfusion within 2 weeks before randomisation were excluded. Darbepoetin alfa was 
administered  at  2.25  µg/kg  s.c.  weekly  for  a  maximum  of  12  weeks.  Dose  doubling  (4.5  µg/kg 
weekly) was performed in patients whose hgb concentration had increased ≤ 1.0 g/dl from baseline at 
the beginning of week 6. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  show  superiority  of  darbepoetin  alfa  over  placebo  by  assessing  the 
proportion  of  subjects  who  receive  RBC  transfusions  from  week  5  to  EOTP.  Secondary  objectives 
compared the effectiveness of darbepoetin alfa with placebo based on: the number and proportion of 
subjects achieving a hgb response; the correction of anemia; the timing and quantity of transfusions; 
HRQOL scores and safety.  
Safety endpoints included the incidence and severity of adverse events, the incidence of death as well 
as the maximum increase of hgb, the proportion of subjects with hgb concentrations > 15.0 g/dl (men) 
or  >  14.0  g/dl  (women),  information  on  tumour  response  and  the  presence  of  anti-  darbepoetin  alfa 
antibodies. 
Results 
Three hundred and twenty subjects were randomised, 314 received study medication (darbepoetin alfa 
= 156, placebo = 158) and were included in the ITT analysis set and 219 subjects completed the study. 
The primary analysis data set, used for the primary endpoint, consists of 297 patients (darbepoetin alfa 
= 149, placebo = 148). The demography and baseline characteristics were well balanced between the 
groups.  
20/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results are presented in the table below: 
Table 3: Efficacy of Darbepeotin alpha in reducing RBC transfusions (Kaplan-Meier Proportions 
presented) 
Endpoint 
Estimate of 
Percentage 
Placebo 
darbepoetin 
alfa 2.25 
(µg/kg/wk) 
Difference in 
Percentages 
darbepoetin alfa - 
Placebo 
 (95% CI) 
51 (43, 60) 
21 (15, 28) 
-24 (-35, -13) 
 (95% CI) 
60 (52, 68) 
26 (20, 33) 
-25 (-35, -14) 
RBC Transfusion 
during weeks 5 to 
EOTP* 
RBC Transfusion 
during weeks 1 to 
EOTP 
* Primary endpoint 
P-
Value 
<0.00
1 
<0.00
1 
Darbepoetin  alfa  reduced  the  Kaplan-Meier  proportion  of  subjects  receiving  RBC  transfusions  from 
week  5  to  the  EOTP  from  51%  in  the  placebo  group  to  21%  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group.  This 
weighted  (by  tumour  type  and  region  strata)  difference  of  24% is  highly  significant  (p < 0.001)  and 
was  consistently demonstrated  regardless  of the  methods  used  to account for  subject  withdrawals or 
the  statistical  analysis  methods.  The  “proportion  of  subjects  with  either  a  hgb  ≤8.0  g/dl  or  a  RBC 
transfusion  from  week  5  to  the  EOTP”,  was  also  assessed.  The  estimated  proportions  are  slightly 
higher  using  this  alternative  definition:  62%  placebo  vs.  29%  darbepoetin  alfa.  This  represents  a 
weighted difference of 30% (95% CI: 19, 41; p < 0.001) in the darbepoetin alfa group and is consistent 
with  the  results  from  the  primary  analysis.  Thus,  the  effect  of  darbepoetin  alfa  in  reducing  the 
proportion  of  subjects  receiving  a  RBC  transfusion  is  robust  to  differences  in  transfusion  policies 
among centres.  
Independent effects of tumour type, region, and baseline hgb were observed. However, despite these 
effects, darbepoetin alfa significantly reduced the proportion of subjects requiring a RBC transfusion. 
In  addition,  darbepoetin  alfa  prolonged  the  time  to  the  first  transfusion;  the  25th  percentile  was 
reached at 8.0 and 12.7 weeks in the placebo and darbepoetin alfa groups, respectively. Darbepoetin 
alfa also reduced the mean (SE) number of standard units of RBCs transfused: darbepoetin alfa 0.67 
(0.14)  units,  placebo  1.92  (0.27)  units.  The  mean  (SE)  number  of  days  when  a  transfusion  was 
required  was  also  reduced:  darbepoetin  alfa  0.3 (0.1)  days,  placebo  0.9  (0.1)  days.  No  difference  in 
transfusion rates was found in patients receiving carboplatin only when compared to patients receiving 
cisplatin as well. 
The  proportion  of  patients  achieving  a  hgb  response  was  significantly  different  in  favour  of  the 
darbepoetin  alfa  group  [difference  between  groups:  29 %  (95 %  CI:  18,  40)  (p < 0.001)].  The 
proportion  of  patients  achieving  a  hgb  correction  was  significantly  different  in  favour  of  the 
darbepoetin  alfa  group  [difference  between  groups:  43 %  (95 %  CI: 32,  53)  (p < 0.001)].  Hence,  the 
results  for  the  secondary  endpoints  are  consistently  in  favour  of  darbepoetin  alfa  and  support  the 
results for the primary endpoint.  
Finally, the effects on tumour progression/death were followed in a long-term follow-up (median 11 
months).  The  analyses  stratified  by  tumor  type  (NSCLC  or  SCLC).  There  was  no  evidence  that 
patients in the darbepoetin alfa group had an increased risk relative to subjects in the placebo group 
with respect to time to disease progression, time to death, and time to disease progression or death.  
Safety 
The  number  of  deaths  was  comparable  (22  darbepoetin  alfa,  19  placebo),  with  most  of  them  due  to 
disease progression and none considered treatment related. Similar numbers of patients withdrew due 
to an AE (10 darbepoetin alfa, 13 placebo), mostly due to disease progression. Overall the incidence 
21/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and type of AEs were similar, with nausea, vomiting, asthenia and fatigue being the most commonly 
reported ones. Similar proportions of patients reported serious adverse events (60 darbepoetin alfa, 58 
placebo),  only  one  of  these  was  regarded  related  to  darbepoetin  alfa:  worsening  of  leg  ulcers, 
peripheral  edema,  maculopapular  skin  efflorescence  (necrotic  ulcerative  vasculitis,  unconfirmed 
diagnosis).  
Treatment-related AEs were reported for more patients treated with darbepoetin alfa (13) compared to 
placebo (8). The most frequent AEs were injection site pain (6 darbepoetin alfa, 3 placebo, all but 1 
mild  intensity)  and  nausea  (3  darbepoetin  alfa,  1  placebo).  Treatment-related  severe  AEs  were 
reported for 4 patients receiving darbepoetin alfa (thrombocytopenia, dyspnoea, maculo-papular rash, 
deep vein thrombosis) and for 2 patients in the placebo group (fatigue, deep vein thrombosis). 
No evidence for anti- darbepoetin alfa antibodies was found following assays at baseline and at least 
once during treatment. 
Clinical Efficacy: Supportive Studies  
Study 990114  
This  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel  placebo-controlled,  dose-finding  study  of  darbepoetin 
alfa  for  the  treatment  of  anemia  in  66  subjects  with  lymphoproliferative  malignancies  receiving 
chemotherapy. Patients were randomised in a 1:2:2:1 ratio to receive darbepoetin alfa at doses of 1.0, 
2.25, or 4.5 µg/kg once weekly or a matched volume of placebo for 12 weeks.  
The primary objective was to assess the relationship between darbepoetin alfa dose and hgb response. 
The primary endpoint was the time to sustained hgb response (defined as an increase in hgb of ≥ 2.0 
g/dl  from  baseline,  sustained  for  at  least  28  days  or  until  EOTP  in  the  absence  of  RBC  transfusion 
during the period of sustained response and the preceding 28 days).  
Results 
Higher  response  rates  were  observed  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group  relative  to  the  placebo  group  for 
hemoglobin-based endpoints. While this study was not designed to make formal comparisons between 
groups,  statistically  significant  differences  between  darbepoetin  alfa  and  placebo  were  observed  for 
hgb  response  (p = 0.003)  and  correction  (p = 0.029).  In  addition,  the  incidence  of  transfusions  from 
week 5 to EOTP was lower in the darbepoetin alfa dose groups than in the placebo group. 
No deaths occurred on study and no patient withdrew due to an adverse event. Similar proportions of 
patients reported adverse events (darbepoetin alfa 95 %, placebo 91 %).  
Due  to  the  size  of  this  study  the  clinical  dataset  was  considered  too  small  to  approve  the  use  of 
darbepoetin  alfa  in  these  patients  (e.g.  in  patients  with  Hodgkin’s  Disease  and  non-Hodgkin’s 
Lymphoma).  This  is  reflected  in  the  approved  indication  i.e.  “solid  tumours  (non-haematological 
malignancies)” and the “warnings and special precautions section” of the SPC.  
Study 980290 B 
Study  980290  B,  was  a  randomised,  open  label,  rHuEPO  controlled,  dose-finding  study  of  sc 
darbepoetin  alfa  once  every  two  weeks  for  the  treatment  of  anemia  in  subjects  with  solid  tumors 
receiving multicycle chemotherapy. One hundred and seventy six patients were randomised to one of 
the four darbepoetin alfa groups or to 40000 U/wk rHuEPO, 160 received at least one dose of study 
drug, and 104 subjects completed 12 weeks of study treatment. Baseline demographics with respect to 
gender, age and race were similar for rHuEPO and the darbepoetin alfa groups.  
Darbepoetin alfa was active at this schedule of administration and that there was no apparent loss of 
efficiency  moving  from  once  weekly  to  once  every  2  week  administration  (Section  5.1  of  the  SPC 
mentions  the  fact  that  darbepoetin  alfa  had  similar  effectiveness  when  administered  as  a  single 
22/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
injection  either  weekly  or  once  every  2 weeks,  in  general,  without  any  increase  in  total  dose 
requirements).  
The percentage of deaths on study was comparable between the treatment groups (8% NESP vs.16% 
rHuEPO) and were mainly due to disease progression. Fifteen percent of subjects in the NESP group 
and 6% in the rHuEPO group were withdrawn from the study for an AE.  
Study 980291  
This  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  dose-finding  study  of  sc  darbepoetin  alfa 
once every three weeks for the treatment of anemia in subjects with solid tumors receiving multicycle 
chemotherapy. The primary objective was to assess the safety of darbepoetin alfa.  
The number of deaths was comparable (NESP, 5 %; placebo: 8 %) and none was considered treatment 
related. No patients withdrew due to treatment-related adverse events. Similar proportions of patients 
reported AEs (NESP 96 %, placebo 94 %) and SAEs (NESP 29 %, placebo 35%). Only one SAE was 
regarded related to NESP (pulmonary embolism). 
Overall  the  incidence  and  type  of  adverse  events  were  similar,  with  nausea,  fatigue,  vomiting, 
constipation  and  diarrhoea  being  the  most  commonly  reported  ones.  The  efficacy  results  from  this 
study indicated that darbepoetin alfa is active at dosing schedules of every 3 weeks in this population. 
Discussion 
Efficacy 
Given  the  many  possible  combinations  of  tumour  type  and  chemotherapy  regimens  in  tumour-
associated anaemia, it cannot reasonably be expected to investigate the efficacy of darbepoetin alfa in 
a confirmatory trial for each and every combination. A certain degree of generalisation will always be 
necessary. The MAH chose lung cancer representing a population of those receiving platinum based 
chemotherapy  and  showed  superiority  over  placebo  for  these  patients  in  a  tightly  controlled 
confirmatory  study.  This  information  was  then  generalised  by  using  supportive  trials  for  tumour-
associated  anaemia  in  other  forms  of  tumours  and  different  chemotherapeutic  agents  (e.g.  studies 
980290  and  990114).  The  data  generated  through  the  darbepoetin  alfa  programme  provide  evidence 
that the efficacy and safety of darbepoetin alfa are independent of the type of malignancy in patients 
receiving platinum and non-platinum containing chemotherapy. Since the efficacy of darbepoetin alfa 
is mediated by the same mechanism of action and the same receptor as rHuEPO, literature regarding 
the treatment of tumour-associated anaemia with rHuEPO can be considered as supportive data. In this 
respect,  several  recent  large  studies  totalling  almost  10,000  patients  indicate  that  the  correction  of 
anaemia by rHuEPO seems to be independent of tumour type and chemotherapeutic agents. For these 
reasons  the  generalisation  from  lung  cancer  patients  receiving  platinum-based  chemotherapy  to  the 
treatment of anaemia in solid tumours receiving any kind of chemotherapy is acceptable. The notable 
exception is Hodgkin’s Disease and non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, where the size of the clinical dataset 
is  too  small  to  approve  the  use  darbepoetin  alfa  in  these  patients.  This  is  reflected  in  the  approved 
indication  i.e.  “solid  tumours  (non-haematological  malignancies)”  and  the  “warnings  and  special 
precautions section” of the SPC. 
The supportive trials are neither confirmative in character nor are they powered to prove differences 
between  darbepoetin  alfa  and  the  corresponding  control  group  (placebo  in  990114  and  980291  and 
rHuEPO  in  980290B)  due  to  their  design  as  phase  I/II  trials.  Nonetheless,  the  development  plan  to 
investigate the clinical  effectiveness in the intended population  with  trials  of high internal quality is 
acknowledged.  In  addition,  the  design  of  controlled,  blinded  dose-response  trials  in  this  complex 
therapeutic  situation  with  a  variety  of  tumour  types  and  cytotoxic  regimens  allows  to  differentiate 
between AEs related to the concomitant chemotherapy and the study treatment more accurately than 
would have been possible in uncontrolled phase I/II trials. 
The pharmacokinetic results are consistent with dose linear pharmacokinetics over a wide dose range 
(0.5  to  8 µg/kg  weekly  and  3  to  9  µg/kg  every  two  weeks).  Pharmacokinetic  parameters  did  not 
change  on  multiple  dosing  over  12  weeks  (dosing  every  week  or  every  two  weeks).  There  was  an 
23/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expected moderate (< 2 fold) increase in serum concentration as steady state was approached, but no 
unexpected accumulation upon repeated administration. These findings are reflected in section 5.2 of 
the SPC. The recommended dose regimen is 2.25 µg/kg administered weekly, as used in the pivotal 
trial.  The  increase  in  dose  is  covered  in  section  4.2  of  the  SPC,  where  it  is  indicated  that  the  dose 
should  be  doubled  if  the  increase  in  hgb  is  less  than  1  g/dl  after  4  weeks.  Section  5.1  of  the  SPC 
mentions  the  fact  that  darbepoetin  alfa  had  similar  effectiveness  when  administered  as  a  single 
injection  either  weekly  or  once  every  2 weeks,  in  general,  without  any  increase  in  total  dose 
requirements.  
Regarding the pivotal trial, the primary endpoint is considered relevant and the results are sufficiently 
consistent between the different study centres, thus ruling out any severe intra- and inter-investigator 
effects. As regards the trial design, the CPMP requested a non-inferiority trial to obtain information on 
the relative efficacy and safety of darbepoetin alfa vs. rHuEPO. The data presented have demonstrated 
efficacy  of  darbepoetin  alfa  against  placebo  or  rHuEPO  controls  in  various  clinical  settings.  More 
importantly,  due  to  the  variations  in  physiological  responses  of  patients  to  EPO,  any  clinical  study 
which reflects “real life” conditions must incorporate titration rules regarding the applied dose based 
on the patient’s response and hgb level. In the case of a non-inferiority trial, where both trial arms are 
pharmacological  active,  such  a  titration  against  the  study  endpoint  would  “normalise”  the  results  of 
both the active and the control arm and tend to hide any potential differences between the arms, thus 
limiting the information that could be derived from such a trial. Taking this into consideration and the 
fact that the pivotal study has demonstrated the efficacy of darbepoetin alfa compared to placebo on 
both transfusion and hgb endpoints, the divergence from the Scientific Advice is acceptable. 
Safety Overview 
As  defined  in  the  original  MAA,  the  modification  of  the  amino  acid  sequence  in  darbepoetin  alfa 
compared  to  human  erythropoietin  raises  a  theoretical  concern  regarding  potential  immunogenicity. 
Although  there  has  been  no  evidence  of  any  treatment  related  antibodies  to  darbepoetin  alfa,  the 
seriousness  of  developing  neutralising  antibodies  with  severe  sequelae  has  been  highlighted  by  the 
recent  increase  in  the  incidence  of  Pure  Red  Cell  Aplasia,  mostly  in  patients  receiving  s.c.  Epoetin 
alfa.  Whilst  the  BIAcore  assay  developed  by  the  MAH  has  been  recognised  as  current  ‘state  of  the 
art’, there are limitations to sensitivity. The MAH has committed to further develop and improve the 
sensitivity or specificity of the currently available battery of immunoassays (RIP, BIACore 3000 and 
cell  based  neutralising  bioassay),  and  will  continue  to  seek  advice  on  an  ongoing  basis  from  both 
immunology experts in European regulatory agencies and other external experts to determine the most 
relevant assays to monitor potential antibody formation. The MAH intends to perform post-marketing 
studies in the nephrology and oncology indications, in which antibody formation will be monitored. 
The clinical trials supporting this indication did not include sufficient patients with long-term survival 
expectancy receiving adjuvant and neo-adjuvant chemotherapy in early stage tumours. In view of the 
recent  increase  in  the  use  of  highly  myelotoxic  therapeutic  regimens  in  such  patients  and  given  the 
lack of experience in the use of recombinant human erythropoietin in this setting, a warning has been 
added to section 4.4 of the SPC to advise caution in the use of erythropoetic agents in this population. 
The  incidence  of  AEs  and  SAEs  reported  were  generally  similar  between  darbepoetin  alfa,  placebo 
and rHuEPO and there was no increase in incidence with the higher dosage groups of darbepoetin alfa.  
The incidences of arthralgia, peripheral oedema and injection site pain were higher in darbepoetin alfa 
patients than in placebo patients. These AEs have been added to section 4.8 of the SPC. 
7. 
Treatment of anaemia in adult cancer patients with non-haematological malignancies 
receiving chemotherapy 
Introduction  
The anaemia caused by renal impairment is mainly due to limited production of endogenous EPO, 
whereas anaemia in cancer is multifactorial. The incidence of anaemia severe enough to result in 
blood transfusions may be as high as 60 % in certain tumour types. The causes may include intrinsic 
24/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
factors, such as proliferative defects in stem cells, multiple intrinsic causes such as chronic disorders, 
marrow infiltration, or nutritional deficiency. There may also exist extrinsic causes like mechanical 
erythrocyte destruction such as microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia; chemically induced anaemia 
(e.g. by cancer chemotherapy); infection-induced anaemia; antibody-mediated processes; 
hypersplenism and occult or overt blood loss. 
The use of erythropoietic agents is an alternative treatment option for patients with anaemia 
undergoing treatment with chemotherapy. Similar effects have been reported across all tumour types 
in randomised, placebo-controlled trials where administration of erythropoietic agents has increased 
haemoglobin levels, reducing RBC transfusion rates, and increasing subjects’ quality of life. The 
substantial data reported have led to erythropoietic agents being indicated for use in treating 
chemotherapy-induced anaemia.  
In the original oncology application, a phase II dose-finding study (study 990114) with a limited 
number of subjects (n=66) with lymphoproliferative disease was included. The number of subjects 
was limited, and although no efficacy or safety concerns were identified for darbepoetin-alfa in these 
subjects, the size of the dataset was not considered large enough to support an initial indication in this 
patient group. 
To provide further data on the efficacy and safety of darbepoetin alfa in this patient population, an 
additional, pivotal, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase III study in patients with 
lymphoproliferative malignancies receiving chemotherapy has now been submitted Study NESP-
20000161 in Lymphoproliferative Malignancies. The data generated through the darbepoetin alfa 
programme provide evidence that the efficacy and safety of darbepoetin alfa are independent of the 
type of malignancy in patients receiving platinum and non-platinum containing chemotherapy. Since 
the efficacy of darbepoetin alfa is mediated by the same mechanism of action and the same receptor as 
rHuEPO, literature regarding the treatment of tumour-associated anaemia with rHuEPO has been 
considered as supportive data. 
2 
Clinical aspects 
Study NESP-20000161 in Lymphoproliferative Malignancies 
Study Design 
This is a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled parallel-group study designed to confirm the 
safety and demonstrate the efficacy of 2.25 µg/kg once weekly in anaemic subjects (haemoglobin ≤ 
11.0 g/dl) with lymphoproliferative malignancies receiving chemotherapy  
25/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study design is shown in the figure below: 
S
C 
R 
E
E
N 
I 
N 
G 
R 
A 
N 
D 
O 
M 
I 
Z 
A 
T 
I 
O   
  Na 
NESP 
2.25 µg/kg/week 
for 12 weeksb 
Placebo 
once weekly  
for 12 weeksb 
Dose increase at 
week 6 for 
inadequate hgb 
response 
E
N 
D 
O
F 
T 
R 
E
A
T 
M
E
N 
T 
4-week 
observation 
period after 
last dose of 
study drug 
CONCURRENT CHEMOTHERAPY 
Week 
1 
6 
12 
L
O 
N
G 
T 
E 
R
M 
F 
O 
L
L
O 
W
U
P 
E 
N 
D 
O 
F 
S 
T 
U 
D 
Y 
16
Study Population  
Three hundred and forty nine anaemic subjects (haemoglobin ≤ 11.0 g/dl) with lymphoproliferative 
malignancies receiving chemotherapy were randomised to receive darbepoetin alfa at a dose of 2.25 
µg/kg once weekly or matching placebo. Overall, 173 (50%) subjects had myeloma and 171 (50%) 
had lymphoma (non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, Hodgkin’s disease, or 
Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia). Most subjects (71%) had stage III/IV disease, although more 
subjects in the darbepoetin-alfa group (50%) had progressive disease at baseline, compared to placebo 
(43%).  Eighty two percent had received prior chemotherapy, 15% had received prior radiotherapy, 
and 27% were defined as heavily pretreated with chemotherapy 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects who, by the end of treatment phase, 
achieved a haemoglobin response (defined as an increase in haemoglobin of ≥ 2.0 g/dL) over baseline 
in the absence of RBC transfusions in the 28 days before laboratory sampling. 
The main secondary endpoint was the proportion of subjects who received a RBC transfusion from 
week 5 to the end of the treatment phase, estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The first 4 weeks 
of treatment were not included in the main RBC transfusion analysis as historical data suggest that 
statistically significant reductions in RBC transfusion have only been reported after the first month of 
treatment. Furthermore, there was a Health-related Quality of Life (HRQOL) secondary endpoint 
estimated as the mean change from baseline to the end of treatment phase for the Functional 
Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) Fatigue Scale score. 
Possible antibody formation to darbepoetin alfa was evaluated. A battery of  validated and approved 
assays were used: a radioimmunoprecipitation (RIP) screening assay to detect seroreactivity to 
darbepoetin alfa and a BIAcore assay and cell-based bioassay to detect neutralising or inhibiting 
effects on the activity of darbepoetin alfa. 
The main safety endpoint in this study was to assess if the proportion of adverse events was consistent 
with that expected for subjects with lymphoproliferative malignancies who are receiving 
chemotherapy. 
26/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Efficacy 
Darbepoetin alfa increased the Kaplan Meier proportion (95% CI) of subjects achieving a 
haemoglobin response from 18% (95% CI 12, 24) in the placebo group to 60% (95% CI 52, 68) in the 
darbepoetin alfa group, a significant difference of 42% (95% CI 32, 52) (P < 0.001). When the data 
were analysed by malignancy type, a significant improvement in the rate of haemoglobin response 
with darbepoetin alfa relative to placebo was observed both in subjects with lymphoma (64% vs 13%, 
P < 0.001) and subjects with myeloma (56% vs 23%, P < 0.001). Significantly fewer subjects 
randomised to darbepoetin-alfa had a RBC transfusion from week 5 to the end of treatment phase 
(31%) compared with the placebo group (48%), an adjusted difference of -17% (95% CI: -28, -7; p < 
0.001). This finding was consistently demonstrated regardless of the approach used to account for 
subject withdrawals or the use of an alternative definition of the endpoint (RBC transfusion or 
haemoglobin = 8.0 g/dL). Treatment with darbepoetin alfa also resulted in a statistically significant 
and clinically meaningful increase in the proportion of subjects achieving haemoglobin correction and 
the change in haemoglobin from baseline compared with placebo. 
For the HRQOL endpoint, after adjusting for the effect of baseline score, improvements in fatigue, as 
measured by the Functional assessment of Cancer Therapy-fatigue (FACT-fatigue) scale were also 
observed (P=0.032). 
Safety 
The overall safety profile of darbepoetin-alfa in this study was similar to placebo and was consistent 
with that expected for subjects with lymphoproliferative malignancies who are receiving 
chemotherapy. Ten subjects (6%) in the darbepoetin-alfa group and 4 subjects (2%) in the placebo 
group died during the study or within 30 days after the last dose of study drug. No deaths were 
considered treatment related, and the most common cause of death was disease progression. Six 
subjects (3%) receiving darbepoetin-alfa and 7 subjects (4%) receiving placebo withdrew from the 
study because of a nonfatal AE. The incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) was similar to that 
observed with placebo and was not related to haemoglobin concentrations, except for injection site 
pain (mild to moderate), which was more frequently reported on darbepoeitin-alfa, Serious adverse 
events (SAEs) were reported for 51 subjects (29%) receiving darbepoetin-alfa and 63 subjects (37%) 
receiving placebo. The incidence of SAEs considered related to blinded study drug by the investigator 
was 2% in both the darbepoetin-alfa and placebo groups. No relationship was observed between the 
rise in haemoglobin or the maximum haemoglobin concentration achieved and any particular AE or 
pattern of AEs. Changes in laboratory variables and vital signs were similar between the darbepoetin 
alfa and placebo groups. The proportion of subjects hospitalised was similar between treatment 
groups; however, the mean number of days hospitalised per subject was lower for the darbepoetin alfa 
group (5.3 days; SE: 0.8) than for the placebo group (7.2 days; SE: 1.0). 
No antibody generation was observed.  
Discussion 
Darbepoetin alfa 2.25 µg/kg/week administered SC once weekly to subjects with lymphoproliferative 
malignancies receiving chemotherapy significantly increased the proportion of subjects achieving a 
haemoglobin response and decreased the proportion of subjects requiring a RBC transfusion compared 
with placebo. Furthermore, the Quality of Life data (HRQOL FACT-Fatigue score) suggest that 
darbepoetin alfa might reduce fatigue in these patients.  
The data generated through the darbepoetin alfa development programme provide evidence that the 
efficacy or safety of darbepoetin alfa is independent of the type of malignancies in patients receiving 
chemotherapy containing platinum and non-platinum agents. This seems to be true also for patients 
with lymphoproliferative disease.  
27/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A dose of 2.25 µg/kg darbepoetin-alfa once weekly was effective in the majority of subjects with 
lymphoma or myeloma increasing the haemoglobin response rate significantly and reducing the 
percentage of subjects receiving RBC transfusions compared with placebo. 
Regarding safety, the incidence of adverse events in subjects receiving darbepoetin alfa was similar to 
that of subjects receiving placebo and seems to be dominated by the underlying disease. The incidence 
of deaths on study was also similar in the darbepoetin alfa and placebo treatment groups. The 
incidence of severe or serious adverse events was also similar between treatment groups. Available 
long-term follow-up data do not indicate any adverse impact of darbepoetin alfa or other 
erythropoietic agents on either overall survival or progression-free survival. Results of the 
observational long-term follow-up study will be provided annually after approval, until three years 
after all patients completed the blinding phase of the study to check if there is a difference between 
patients receiving active drug or placebo.  
For growth factors like erythropoietic agents, there is a theoretical risk of stimulating or inducing 
malignant cells in a clinically unfavourable way. However, no such effect has become evident until 
now and, in this respect, on the basis of the studies submitted, lymphoproliferative malignancies do 
not appear to be different from other forms of cancer. However emerging data regarding EPOR 
positive tumours will be submitted in order to assess the risk of cell line proliferation or tumour 
growth. With regard to antibody formation against darbepoetin alfa, negative results were obtained 
throughout the nephrology and haematology/oncology studies. This includes over 550 patients who 
have received darbepoetin alfa for over 2 years and were followed up as part of the post-licensing 
commitments for the nephrology indication. There is currently no evidence of antibody-mediated 
PRCA with darbepoetin alfa via any route of administration in any patient population.  
Benefit/risk or conclusion 
Overall, study NESP 20000161 together with study NESP 990114 provide confirmatory evidence that 
darbepoetin alfa is effective for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced anaemia in subjects with 
lymphoproliferative malignancies. Darbepoetin alfa appeared to be well tolerated and was not 
associated with any new safety concerns in this treatment setting. 
The benefit – risk relation for expanding the indication for darbepoetin alfa to the treatment of 
anaemia in adult cancer patients with non myeloid malignancies receiving chemotherapy is 
favourable.  
28/28 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
