Product name: Aranesp 
EMEA/H/C/000332/II/0035 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Its  active  substance 
Darbepoetin  alfa  (Aranesp®/Nespo®)  was  approved  in  the  European  Union  in  June  2001  via  a 
centralised  procedure. 
(ie.  with  2  additional 
sialic acid-containing carbohydrate chains) of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO), produced 
in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  cells  by  recombinant  DNA  technology.  It  has  a  prolonged  half-life  and 
increased biologic activity relative to rHuEPO.  The 2 additional N-glycosylation sites result from 5 
amino  acid  substitutions  in  the  erythropoietin  peptide  backbone.  The  additional  sugar  residues  are 
molecularly indistinct from those on rHuEPO. 
is  a  modified 
form 
Darbepoetin alfa is currently indicated for use in: 
•  Treatment  of  anaemia  associated  with  chronic  renal  failure  (CRF)  in  adults  and  paediatric 
subjects ≥ 11 years of age  
•  Treatment  of  symptomatic  anaemia  in  adult  cancer  patients  with  non-myeloid  malignancies 
receiving chemotherapy 
The company is requesting an amendment to the present indication in order to allow treatment to CRF 
paediatric subjects, in addition to adults, as follows: 
•  Treatment of anaemia associated with chronic renal failure in adults and paediatric subjects 
≥ 11 years of agepatients. 
•  Treatment  of  symptomatic  anaemia  in  adult  cancer  patients  with  non-myeloid  malignancies 
receiving chemotherapy 
As  a  consequence  of  the  requested  new  indication,  the  MAH  is  also  applying  for  major  changes  to 
sections 4.2 (posology) and 5.2 (Pharmacokynetic properties), and other changes in section 10 of the 
SPC. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
Rationale for the proposed change 
The scope of this variation is the expansion of the pediatric application to the use of darbepoetin alfa in 
paediatric chronic renal failure subjects ≤ 11 year of age.  
The  original  marketing  application  for  darbepoetin  alfa  included  interim  data  from  an  open-label, 
single-dose,  crossover,  pharmacokinetic  study  (980212)  in  paediatric  subjects  with  chronic  kidney 
disease  (CKD;  a  term  used  to  represent  the  spectrum  of  kidney  disease)  who  were  between  3  and 
16 years of age. Based on final data from study 980212, the use of darbepoetin alfa for the treatment 
of anemia in pediatric patients with CKD was subsequently approved for children ≥11 years.  
In support of this variation application the MAH has submitted two pharmacokinetic studies (980212 
and 200000126) and one efficacy study (200000100).  
• 
Pharmacokinetic Studies 
1. Study 980212  
Study Design 
An  open-label,  multicenter,  2-period,  2-treatment,  randomised,  cross-over  study  to  determine  the 
pharmacokinetics of darbepoetin alfa in 13 paediatric patients (between 1 and 16 years of age) with 
chronic renal failure on dialysis or not on dialysis or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Five US centers 
recruited patients between 14 April 1999 to 19 November 1999. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Each subject received 2 doses of darbepoetin alfa . The first dose of darbepoetin alfa (0.5 µg/kg) was 
administered  intravenous (IV), followed 14 to 16 days later by subcutaneous (SC) injection (or vice 
versa determined by the randomisation sequence).  
Objective 
To determine the pharmacokinetics and safety of a single dose of darbepoetin alfa given either IV or 
SC in paediatric patients with CRF receiving dialysis or not. 
Endpoints  
Efficacy end points  
The primary end point was the t 1/2 ,z of darbepoetin alfa after IV and SC dosing. 
The secondary endpoints were the followings:  
-   IV Dosing, C0 (peak concentration at time zero), AUC 0-∞, MRT 0- ∞ (mean residence time 
to infinity), CL, V0 (initial volume of distribution. 
-   SC Dosing: Cmax, Tmax, AUC (0-∞), MRT (0-∞), F (bioavailability), CL/F. 
-   Safety endpoints: Reporting of adverse events, NESP antibody formation and others. 
Blood sampling and analytical methods 
Blood for determination of darbepoetin plasma concentrations was drawn at baseline and at predefined 
time points up to 168 hrs post dose during each sequence. Timing for blood draws slightly changed 
and the number of blood draws reduced after the enrolment of the first 7 patients but the total duration 
of sampling remained unchanged. Serum samples for the detection of darbepoetin alfa antibodies were 
taken before the first dose of darbepoetin alfa, on study day 15 and at the end of the study. Two assays 
were  used,  a  radioimmunoprecipitation  (RIP)  screening  assay  and  a  cell-based  bioassay  to  detect 
antibodies that neutralize or inhibit the activity of darbepoetin alfa.  
Drug  concentrations  were  determined  using  a  conventional  solid-phase  sandwich  serum  enzyme 
immunoassay. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  PK  analysis  was  performed  using  non-compartmental  methods  and  baseline  corrected 
serum  concentrations  of  darbepoetin  alfa    ANOVA  was  performed  on  pooled  data.  In  addition,  if  a 
significant  treatment-by-period  interaction  was  found,  the  analyses  were  performed  using  the  first 
study period. All serum concentrations below the limit of quantification of the assay were considered 
zero. Actual sampling times were used for estimation of parameters.  
Compartmental modelling was also performed as a secondary analysis.  
Patient characteristics 
Seven  male  and  6  female  patients  with  a  median  age  of  13  years  were  enrolled.  Patients  were 
distributed in subgroups of age (1-6 years: 1 patient each in the IV-SC group and in the SC-IV group 
(3 and 4 years of age), 7-11 years: 2 patients in each group, 12-16 years: 4 subjects in the IV-SC group 
and 3 patients in the SC-IV group). 
The mean Hb concentration was 11.93 g/dl in the IV-SC group and 10.62 g/dl in the SC-IV group. 
All patients had been receiving rHuEpo before enrolment into the study. 
10 subjects were receiving dialysis (one of them peritoneal dialysis and 9 subjects hemodialysis) and 
the 3 remaining patients were not on dialysis.  
PK results 
Twelve out of the 13 patients enrolled received study medication. Of these, 10 IV profiles and 8 SC 
profiles  could  be  extrapolated.  No  treatment-by-period  interactions  or  period  effects  were  observed, 
although  the  ability  to  detect  these  effects  was  limited  by  the  small  sample  size.  Mean  Cmax  was 
about  10  fold  and  AUC  2-fold  higher  after  IV  administration  in  comparison  to  SC  administration. 
Mean t1/2 was longer after SC application. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Adverse Events  
Nine  of  the  12  subjects  receiving  study  drug  reported  at  least  one  AE,  all  of  which  were  mild  to 
moderate  in  severity.  The  most  frequently-reported  AE  was  injection  site  pain  (4  subjects).  Three 
subjects experienced 4 mild adverse events (3 events of injection site pain and 1 headache) that were 
considered treatment-related by the investigator. 
SAE’s 
No deaths, SAEs or adverse events leading to withdrawal occurred during the study. 
Laboratory findings  
No Hb values above 13 g/dL were reported.  
Inmunological 
No anti-epoetin antibodies were detected in any subject. 
3.  
Study 200000126 
Study Design 
An open-label, multicenter, single-arm, pharmacokinetic study of darbepoetin alfa administered by SC 
injection for the treatment of anemia in paediatric subjects with non-myeloid malignancies receiving 
multicycle chemotherapy. Subjects completing the primary 6-dose treatment phase could continue to 
receive darbepoetin alfa in a treatment-extension phase. Five US centers recruited patients between 13 
April 2001 to 22 November 2002. 
Objective 
To assess the PK profile and the tolerability of SC administered darbepoetin alfa in paediatric patients 
with nonmyeloid malignancies who were receiving multicycle chemotherapy. 
Treatments 
Subjects were to receive 6 doses of darbepoetin alfa 2.25 µg/kg administered SC beginning on the first 
day  of  the  next  cycle  of  chemotherapy.  After  the  first  administration  of  darbepoetin  alfa,  blood 
samples  were  collected  for  the  evaluation  of  the  PK  profile  over  a  10-day  period.  Subjects  then 
received 5 additional doses once weekly with samples being collected on a weekly basis.  
Subjects  who  completed  the  6-dose  (7-week)  primary  treatment  phase  could  continue  to  receive 
darbepoetin  alfa  through  the  end  of  their  planned  course  of  chemotherapy  in  a  treatment  extension 
phase. 
All subjects were to complete a 1-week follow-up period after the last dose of darbepoetin alfa. Dose 
adjustments were made in case of Hb values outside the age specific target range. 
Subjects 
Main inclusion criteria: 
-  Patients younger than 18 years of age with nonmyeloid malignancies 
-  anaemia ( Hb ≤ 11 g/dl for subjects 0 to 11 years and 12,0 g/dl for subjects 12 to 17 years) 
-  minimum body weight of 15 kg  
-  at least 6 additional weeks of cyclic chemotherapy planned 
-  ECOG performance status of 0 to 2 
-  anemia  predominantly  due  to  the  cancer  or  chemotherapy  (i.e.  serum  folate  ≥  2.0  ng/ml, 
Vitamin B12 ≥ 200 pg/ml, no hemolysis, no GI bleeding) 
-  Adequate renal and liver function. 
Treatment  with  rHuEPO  within  4  weeks  before  enrolment  or  prior  treatment  with  darbepoetin  alfa 
were exclusion criteria. 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints  
Efficacy endpoints 
Primary PK endpoints: CL/F, t ½,z, Tmax 
Secondary PK endpoints: AUC (0-t), AUC (0-∞), Vz/F, Cmax 
Efficacy endpoints: proportion of subjects 1) with RBC transfusions, 2) achieving Hb response (≥ 2.0 
g/dL increase in the absence of RBC transfusion), 3) Hb response or Hb concentration ≥ 12.0 g/dL; 
weekly mean change in Hb from baseline. 
Analytical methods 
Serum  samples  for  the  detection  of  NESP  antibodies  were  taken  before  the  first  dose  of  NESP,  on 
study  day  15  and  at  the  end  of  the  study.  Two  assays  were  used,  a  radioimmunoprecipitation  (RIP) 
screening assay and a cell-based bioassay to detect antibodies that neutralize or inhibit the activity of 
NESP 
Safety endpoints 
AEs, concomitant medication, anti NESP antibodies, laboratory values, vital signs, RBC transfusions, 
Hb above allowed range. 
Analytical methods 
Drug  concentrations  were  determined  using  an  ELISA  (Quantikine  IVD  human  erythropoietin 
enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay,  R&D  Systems,  Minneapolis,  MN,  USA)  at  MDS  Pharma 
services (Montreal, Quebec, Canada). 
Statistical methods 
Enrolment was stratified by subject age (0 to 11 years and 12 to 17 years) to provide a more balanced 
representation of NESP PK in the paediatric population.  
Patient characteristics 
A total of 16 subjects were enrolled into the study, 12 male and 4 female patients (mean age of 11.8 
years, range 5 to 18 years, 7 patients were age ≤ 11 years). Ewing´s sarcoma was the most common 
primary  tumour  type  (N=4);  3  patients  had  rhabdomyosarcoma,  2  patients  had  Wilm´s  tumour, 
Hodgkin disease or osteosarcoma respectively and 5 patients had pulmonary metastasis and no patient 
had liver metastasis. 
All subjects had received prior chemotherapy. The mean number of prior cycles of chemotherapy was 
9.2 (range: 3 to 23) and 5 patients had received prior radiotherapy. All subjects received chemotherapy 
during  Study 200000126.  The  most  frequently  administered  agents  were  cyclophosphamide, 
etoposide, and vincristine (75% for each agent)  
The mean baseline Hb level was 9.41 g/dl (SD 1.17). The mean baseline endogenous erythropoietin 
concentration  was  86.74  (SD  165.39  mU/ml).  One  subject  had  an  extremely  high  baseline 
erythropoietin  level  of  695.7  mU/ml  and  was  therefore  excluded  from  analysis.    Fifteen  patients 
completed  the  study,  one  patient  discontinued  at  week  3  (withdrawal  of  consent)  and  10  patients 
participated in the extension phase.  
PK Results 
Single dose intensive PK profile 
Fifteen subjects were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis. One subject was excluded because of a 
high  baseline  erythropoietin  value.    Extrapolated  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (t1/2,z,  AUC(0-∞),  CL/F 
and Vz/F) were summarized for 11 of the 15 subjects.  Of the 4 subjects not included in the summary 
statistics, 1 subject received a dose of darbepoetin alfa > 10% of the nominal dose, and for 3 subjects 
the terminal phase could not be reliably extrapolated because of the impact from chemotherapy. 
After  SC  administration,  absorption  was  slow,  with  the  maximum  concentrations  (mean±SD  10.5±3 
ng/mL)  occurring  at  24  to  143  hours  (mean  71  hours)  post  dose.  Darbepoetin  alfa  exhibited  a  long 
terminal  half  life  (mean  49.4  h).  Mean  relative  clearance  was  1.87  mL/hr/kg.  Concentrations  had 
declined to near-baseline levels by 336 hours post dose.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events 
Fifteen  of  the  16  patients  reported  ≥1  AEs,  most  commonly  fever  (50%),  granulocytopenia  (38%), 
vomiting (38%), injection site pain (31%), and abdominal pain (31%). Six subjects reported AEs that 
were  considered  related  to  darbepoetin  alfa  by  the  investigator,  mostly  mild  injection  site  pain  and 
injection site erythema). 
Adverse events of special interest  
Three of the 6 AEs of historical interest for CKD subjects were also considered relevant for oncology 
subjects  and  analyzed  separately  for  Study  20000126:  hypertension,  convulsions  (seizures),  and 
thrombotic events.  No convulsions or thrombotic events were reported during this study. One subject 
had hypertension, which was mild in severity.  This event was not considered related to darbepoetin 
alfa by the investigator and was not associated with an elevated or rapid increase in Hb concentration.  
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Nine  subjects  reported  SAEs,  most  commonly  fever  (44%)  and  granulocytopenia  (31%),  which  are 
consistent with those expected for subjects with cancer undergoing chemotherapy (Walsh et al, 2001).  
One subject experienced moderate gastrointestinal haemorrhage and limb pain considered serious and 
related  to  darbepoetin  alfa  by  the  investigator  but  was  not  withdrawn  from  therapy.  No patient  died 
during the study. 
Laboratory findings 
Two subjects ≤ 11 years of age had a Hb excursion of > 13.0 g/dL during the study. One patient had a 
Hb concentration of 14.6 g/dL within 28 days after receiving a RBC transfusion.  No clinical sequelae 
were reported for this subject. The other patient had a Hb concentration of 14.4 g/dL during the study.  
This subject experienced dehydration at the time of the excursion and returned to 10.2 g/dL one week 
later. Darbepoetin alfa was not withheld for either subject, which was a deviation from the protocol. 
None of the subjects ≥ 12 years of age had a Hb excursion. 
No unexpected changes in haematological parameters were observed during the study. As expected for 
subjects receiving chemotherapy, individual laboratory AEs related to decreases in blood cell counts 
were reported during the study (e.g. granulocytopenia) None of these AEs were considered related to 
treatment. 
Inmunological 
No anti-epoetin antibodies were detected in any subject. 
• 
4. 
Efficacy study 
 Study 200000100 
Study Design 
Open-label,  multicenter,  randomised,  non-inferiority  study  of  NESP  and  recombinant  human 
erythropoietin  (rHuEPO)  for  the  treatment  of  anemia  in  paediatric  subjects  with  CKD  or  end-stage 
renal disease (ESRD) receiving dialysis. A 20-week dose titration period was followed by an 8–week 
evaluation period. Forty nine US centers recruited patients between  (4 August 2000 to 23 July 2004). 
Subjects 
Inclusion criteria: 
-  Patients 1 to 18 years of age with chronic renal failure (GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2)  
-  clinically stable (as judged by the investigator) 
-  2 Hb values, 1 during screening and 1 at baseline, within 9,5 and 12,5 ng/dl) 
-  stable  therapy  given  by  IV  or  SC  route  of  administration  for  at  least  8  weeks  before 
randomisation (Stable was defined as ≤ 25% change in prescribed dose over 8 weeks, same 
route of administration and no more than 1 missed or withheld dose during each of the two 
4-week periods before randomisation) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  TSAT (transferrin saturation) ≥ 20% at the time of randomisation 
-  serum albumin ≥ 3.0 g/dl 
Main exclusion criteria: hypertension, severe hyperparathyroidism, inflammatory disease, malignancy, 
RBC transfusion within the past 8 weeks  
Treatments 
Patients were randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive either darbepoetin alfa once weekly (QW) (if 
previously  receiving  rHuEPO  2  or  3  times  weekly)  or  once  every  other  week  (Q2W)  (if  previously 
receiving  rHuEPO  QW).  Subjects  randomised  to  continue  rHuEPO  therapy  were  to  maintain  their 
schedule  and  route  of  administration.  The  weekly  starting  dose  of  NESP  was  calculated  based  on  a 
subject’s rHuEPO dose for 2 weeks (dose conversion factor: 100 IU rHuEPO = 0.42 µg NESP).  
Dose adjustments 
Hb was measured weekly throughout the study. The dose of darbepoetin alfa or rHuEPO was adjusted 
in  25%  increments/  decrements  of  the  starting  dose  throughout  the  study  to  maintain  subjects’ 
haemoglobin concentration within 10.0 to 12.5 g/dl for up to 28 weeks. After a dose change, 2 further 
consecutive  weekly  Hb  determinations  had  to  be  outside  the  target  range  before  the  dose  could  be 
changed  again.  If  medically  indicated,  more  frequent  dose  changes  were  possible.  If  Hb  value  was 
above  14  g/dl,  study  drug  was  withheld  until  the  Hb  concentration  decreased  below  12.5  g/dl.  The 
dose of study drug was then reinitiated at 75% of the last weekly dose given before withholding. 
Objectives 
To demonstrate that darbepoetin alfa is comparable (non-inferior) to rHuEPO for treatment of anemia 
in  pediatric  subjects  with  CKD  receiving  and  not  receiving  dialysis  and  to  determine  the  safety  and 
tolerability of darbepoetin alfa in this pediatric population. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary: change in Hb level between the screening/baseline period and the evaluation period 
Secondary: 
-   Average weekly dosage of darbepoetin alfa during the evaluation period  
-   Percentage of Hb values within the target range during evaluation period  
-   Safety and tolerability of darbepoetin alfa (adverse events, vital signs, laboratory parameters, 
red blood cell transfusions, dose adjustments, darbepoetin alfa antibody formation) 
Analytical Methods 
Blood samples were collected before the first dose and at the end-of-study visit for assessment of anti-
darbepoetin  alfa  antibodies.  Immunogenicity  testing  in  the  reference  group  was  not  foreseen  in  the 
protocol and only performed when clinically indicated. 
Two  validated  assays  were  used.  The  first  was  Biacore  3000  (Biacore  International,  AB,  Uppsala, 
Sweden) immunoassay to detect the presence of antibodies and to characterize the nature of antibody 
binding  and  antibody  classes.  Biacore  positive  samples  (>  0.250  g/ml)  were  routed  to  a  cell-based 
bioassay to detect neutralizing or inhibiting effects. If a sample was positive in both assays, a subject 
could then be defined as positive for the development of neutralizing antibodies (anti-darbepoetin alfa 
or anti-epoetin alfa antibodies). 
Sample size 
A  sample  size  of  120  subjects  (80  darbepoetin  alfa,  40  rHuEPO)  was  estimated  to  be  sufficient  to 
provide  approximately  80%  power  for  demonstrating  that  darbepoetin  alfa  was  non-inferior  to 
rHuEPO, including a 35% drop out rate. 
Statistical methodology 
Randomization was stratified by age into one of three age groups (1 to 5, 6 to 11, and 12 to 18 years) 
and study center. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definition  of  Non-inferiority:  If  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  Hb  change  from  baseline  in  the 
darbepoetin alfa group minus the change from baseline Hb in the rHuEPO group was greater -1.0 g/dl, 
darbepoetin alfa was considered non-inferior to rHuEPO.  
The primary analysis employed an ANCOVA model with age group as covariate. For the secondary 
analysis an ANOVA was used. 
The  primary efficacy  analysis  was  carried  out  using  the  per  protocol  (PP)  analysis  set.  A  secondary 
efficacy  analysis  was  conducted  using  the  modified  intention  to  treat  (mITT)  analysis  set  (i.e.  all 
subjects who received at least one dose of investigational product). 
Exploratory analyses were performed on different subgroups (e.g. age groups, sex and disease status) 
No interim analysis was planned or conducted. 
Subject disposition 
A  total  of  124  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  into  the  study,  82  to  darbepoetin  alfa  and  42  to 
rHuEPO. One hundred and twenty three patients (99.2%) out of the 124 randomised patients received 
investigational product and 95 subjects (76.6%) completed the study. There was no obvious difference 
in discontinuation rates or reason for discontinuation between the treatment groups  
Baseline data 
There were 51 girls and 73 boys included in the study (mean age was 12.3 years -range 1 to 18 yrs-. In 
the  1  to  5,  6  to  11,  and  12  to  18  year  old  patient  groups,  10,  18  and  54  patients  were  allocated  to 
darbepoetin alfa and 4, 10 and 28 subjects were allocated to rHuEPO, respectively. 
Baseline  mean  Hb  concentrations  were  11.35  and  11.10  g/dl  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  and  rHuEPO 
groups,  respectively.  The  main  cause  of  renal  failure  was  glomerulonephritis  or  urologic.  In  the 
darbepoetin  alfa  group,  the  percentage  of  patients  with  glomerulonephritis  was  higher  and  the 
percentage  of  patients  on  dialysis  lower  and  the  mean  duration  of  dialysis  shorter  compared  to  the 
rHuEPO group. Nevertheless, in both groups the majority of patients was already on dialysis. 
Efficacy results  
Of  the  123  subjects  randomly  assigned  and  receiving  treatment,  a  total  of  86 subjects  (69.4%)  were 
evaluable  for  the  primary  efficacy  analysis.  More  patients  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group  (72%) 
compared to the rHuEPO group (64.3%) were evaluable. The primary reason for exclusion was failure 
to complete the evaluation period or Hb measurements < 6 during evaluation period. 
All 123 patients receiving at least one dose of investigational product were included in the secondary 
mITT analysis. 
Treatment schedule for darbepoetin alfa was once weekly (QW) for 80% of patients and twice weekly 
(Q2W) for 20 % of patients. In the rHuEpo group, 60%, 15% and 25 % of patients received treatment 
3 times a week, Q2W and QW, respectively. 
Regarding  the  primary  endpoint,  there  was  a  minor  increase  vs.  a  minor  decrease  in  mean  Hb  from 
baseline  to  the  evaluation period  in  the  darbepoetin alfa  vs.  rHuEPO  group,  respectively.  The  lower 
limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the  treatment  difference  was  -0.45  g/dL  indicating  non-inferiority  of 
darbepoetin  alfa  compared  rHuEPO  therapy  according  to  the  predefined  criterion.  Results  were 
comparable in the mITT analysis (treatment difference 0.22 g/dL, 95% CI [0,47, 0,92]). 
The percentage of Hb values were within the target range (10.0 to 12.5 g/dl) during evaluation period  
for  75%  of  patients  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group  and  for  72.6  %  of  patients  in  the  rHuEpo  group. 
Results were comparable when using the mITT analysis set (74% and 76% respectively). 
For the different age groups, 1-5, 6-11, and 12-18 year-old-group, the percentage of patients with Hb 
within  the  target  range  was  83%,  65%  and  75%  for  the  test  group  and  58%,  72%  and  79%  for  the 
reference group respectively. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  terms  of  weekly  dose  of  study  drug  during  the  evaluation  period,  the  mean  for  Darbepoetin  alfa 
dosage decreased slightly during the treatment period whereas the mean rHuEPO remained essentially 
unchanged.  The  mean  weekly  weight-adjusted  doses  at  baseline  and  during  the  evaluation  period, 
respectively, were 0.89 and 0.76 µg/kg in the darbepoetin alfa group and 194 and 180 U/kg/week in 
the rHuEpo group. 
In the phase 3 study conducted in adults, the weekly weight-adjusted doses at baseline and during the 
evaluation period, respectively, were 0.85 and 0.72 µg/kg/week in the darbepoetin alfa group and 167 
and 177 U/kg/week in the rHuEpo group. Red blood cell transfusions were required by 6% of patients 
of the darbepoetin alfa group and in 14% of patients of the rHuEpo group. 
Safety Results 
All patients receiving at least one dose of study drug were included in the safety analysis. 
In the darbepoetin alfa group, 81 patients were treated for a mean duration of 23.9 weeks. Of those, 62 
patients (76.5%) were on study drug for more than 24 weeks. 
In the rHuEpo group, 42 patients were treated for a mean (range) duration of 24.8 weeks. Of those, 28 
patients (66.7%) were on study drug for more than 24 weeks. For the safety analysis set, the weight 
corrected mean weekly dose was 0.78 µg/kg/week (0.1 to 3.8) for darbepoetin alfa and 183.82 (40.4 to 
513.7 U/kg/week) for the reference product. 
Adverse Events 
Adverse  events  (AEs)  occurred  in  86%  and  83%  of  the  darbepoetin  group  and  the  rHuEpo  group, 
respectively. There were no marked differences in the frequency and type of AEs between treatment 
groups.  The  most  common  AEs  were  fever  (20%  vs.  29%,  respectively),  headache  (19%  vs.  24%), 
upper respiratory infection (19% vs. 14%) and worsening hypertension (16% vs. 17%).  
Adverse events of special interest 
Six  AEs  of  historical  interest  were  analysed  separately:  hypertension,  myocardial  infarction, 
convulsions  (seizures),  vascular  access  thrombosis,  transient  ischemic  attack,  and  cerebrovascular 
disorder. The incidence of hypertension and convulsions were similar between the treatment groups, 
while  a  higher  percentage  of  subjects  administered  rHuEPO  (10%)  had  vascular  access  thrombosis 
compared with darbepoetin alfa (5%) .  No subjects in either group experienced myocardial infarction, 
transient  ischemic  attack,  or  cerebrovascular  disorder  during  the  study.    When  analyzed  by  subject 
exposure, the rate of hypertensive events was 35 events/100-subject years for both treatment groups. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Serious adverse events (SAEs) occurred in 40% and 48% of the darbepoetin and the rHuEpo group, 
respectively.  The  most  common  SAEs  were  fever  (9%  test  vs.  7%  reference),  sepsis  (9%  vs.  0  %), 
access infection (6% vs. 2%), access complication (4% vs. 10%) and renal failure (3% vs. 7%). 
In each group, two subjects had a SAE which was considered related to treatment.  
Thrombosis of the vascular access and access stenosis occurred in 2 subjects of the darbepoetin alfa 
group  and  thrombosis  of  the  vascular  access  and  a  positive  measurement  for  non-neutralizing 
antibodies to rHuEpo occurred in 2 subjects of the rHuEpo group. One subject in the darbepoetin alfa 
group died due to renal failure. 
Laboratory Findings- hemoglobin excursions 
In  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group,  22  (27%)  subjects  had  a  Hb  excursion  ≥  14.0  g/dl  compared  with  10 
(24%) patients in the rHuEpoetin group. The median time to decrease to ≤ 12.5 g/dl was 3.1 (1.0 to 
5.0) and 2.3 weeks (2.0 to 4.7 weeks) in the test and in the reference group respectively. 
Immunological events 
A total of 81 patients had antibody testing performed, 80 treated with darbepotin alfa and one patient 
treated  with  rHuEPO.  Seventy-three  (90%)  and  70  (86%)  of  subjects  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  group, 
respectively,  had  baseline  and  end-of-study  samples  analyzed.  Of  these  subjects,  7  (9.6%)  tested 
positive  at  baseline  (pre-existing  antibodies)  and  6  (8.6%)  at  the  end  of  the  study.  Two  previously 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
antibody  negative  patients  developed  binding,  non-neutralizing  antibodies  during  the  study.  All 
subjects tested in the bioassay were negative for neutralizing antibodies to darbepoetin alfa or epoetin 
alfa.  
Discontinuation due to AE 
Withdrawals from the study due to an AE occurred in 4 subjects of the darbepoetin alfa group and in 
none  of  the  rHuEpo  group.  Three  of  these  events  leading  to  withdrawal  were  considered  related  to 
study medication: 2 subjects had injection site pain and 1 subject had moderate hypertension. 
DISCUSSION  
Efficacy  
The current indication of Aranesp includes only adult cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies 
receiving chemotherapy. The used dosage of 2.25 µg/kg per week in the present study is in accordance 
with that recommended for treatment of chemotherapy-induced anaemia in adult cancer patients.  
Overall,  the  PK  data  submitted  and  the  comparison  of  study  results  with  those  obtained  in  adult 
patients with CKD or chemotherapy induced anaemia suggest that the PK profile of darbepeotin alfa 
(single dose) is not substantially different between children and adults supporting a common starting 
dose as is the case for other epoetin containing products. The present results are generally in line with 
the  ample  experience  obtained  with  other  epoetin  containing  medicinal  products  demonstrating 
effective use in children with chronic renal failure and recommending the same posology for anaemia 
correction  in  children  and  adults.  In  addition,  the  numbers  of  young  children  included  in  paediatric 
studies  using  other  rHuEPOs  were  not  substantially  higher  compared  to  those  of  the  present  study. 
Chronic  renal  insufficiency  and  dialysis  dependency  is  very  rare  in  children  making  it  difficult  to 
perform large studies in this vulnerable population. 
The results of the 200000100 study demonstrate non-inferior efficacy of darbepoetin alfa compared to 
rHhEPO with regard to the primary endpoint “change in Hb”. Although the pre-defined non-inferiority 
margin  of  -1  g/dL  may  be  considered  somewhat  wide  when  used  in  a  maintenance  phase  study  in 
previously clinically stable patients, the actual lower limit of the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
of  -0.45  g/dL  is  clearly  acceptable.  A  total  of  42  patients  (26  of  whom  were  included  in  the  PP 
analysis) included in this study were in the age range (≤ 11 years) for which approval of darbepoetin 
therapy is sought. Most patients were older than 11 years, a patient population for which darbepoetin 
therapy is already licensed.  
The results of study 200000100 also suggested that paediatric patients with chronic renal failure can 
be  switched  from  rHuEPO  to  darbepoetin  alfa  by  using  the  proposed  conversion  factor  100  IU 
rHuEPO = 0.42 µg NESP or by dividing the total weekly dose of rHuEPO by 240. The chosen dose 
conversion factor is supported by the fact that in the darbepoetin alfa group, on average, only a minor 
down-titration  was  necessary  to  maintain  the  Hb  levels  in  the  target  range  after  the  switch  from 
rHuEPO. At present, the same posology is recommended for children ≥ 11 years of age and for adults, 
which is further supported by the results of the present study. However, the subgroup analysis suggests 
that  the  younger  the  child,  the  higher  the  maintenance  dosage  needed.  Since  the  required  epoetin 
dosage, if anything, is higher in younger than in older children/adolescents and, in addition, is titrated 
individually according to treatment response, this does not constitute a safety concern. 
Safety 
The safety profile of epoetin use is qualitatively similar in adults and children, and, based on results 
from clinical studies and post-marketing experience, AE frequency appears to be similar or lower in 
children  than  in  adults.  Although  the  number  of  paediatric  patients  investigated  in  the  submitted 
studies is small and the duration of treatment short, the safety results are in line with the known safety 
profile of darbepoetin alfa and therefore do no elicit new safety concerns. 
Because the pediatric clinical trial data submitted are considerably limited especially in children 1 to 6 
years  of  age  and  therefore  insufficient  for  comprehensive  evaluation  of  safety  issues  of  darbepoetin 
alfa  in  the  paediatric  population,  the  CHMP  recommended  that  as  part  of  a  RMP,  an  appropriate 
pharmacovigilance plan should be implemented to closely monitor safety and efficacy of darbepoetin 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alfa  in  this  population.  This  pharmacovigilance  plan  should  include  standard  pharmacovigilance 
procedures  as  well  as  a  more  proactive  part  to  conduct  appropriate  pharmacovigilance  in  low  used 
products.  The  pharmacovigilance  plan  should  also  address  anti-darbepoetin  antibodies  as  well  as 
PRCA, risk factors for the appearance of hypertension and thromboembolic and cardiovascular ADRs 
in  the  pediatric  population  treated  with  darbepoetin  alfa.  The  progress  of  the  surveillance  will  be 
reported within regular PSURs and interim results provided annually. The MAH was also requested to 
submit  a  study  protocol  for  an  observational  study  to  collect  long-term  safety  data  on  the paediatric 
population receiving darbepoetin alfa. Data will be collected at regular time intervals including data of 
darbepoetin use, concomitant medication, indication of use and diseases, routine laboratory findings, 
adverse events, causes for discontinuation of darbepoetin alfa etc. The children and adolescents should 
be followed up until darbepoetin use is stopped. Progress of the surveillance will be reported within 
the regular PSURs and interim results should be provided annually. However the MAH must submit a 
proposal of study protocol. 
A post-approval prospective surveillance registry is suggested to monitor all paediatric CRF patients 
receiving darbepoetin alfa or other epoetins in order to expand the safety database and to demonstrate 
long-term safety of darbepoetin alfa compared to other epoetins in this special population. The MAH 
should  submit  PSURs  limited  to  the  paediatric  population  at  six-month  intervals  for  two  years  after 
approval. The MAH was requested to submit a detailed protocol for a registry before approval of this 
variation. The CHMP in October 2006 requested additional clarification to the MAH on the following 
aspects:  
•  Although,  no  neutralizing  antibodies  were  detected,  the  frequency  of  binding,  non-
neutralizing  antibodies  appears  high,  even  knowing  that  the  Biacore  assay  is  highly 
sensitive  for  the  detection  of  anti  epoetin  antibodies.  In  addition,  interpretation  of  the  2 
cases  of  newly  developed  anti-darbepoetin  antibodies  during  the  study  is  difficult, 
particularly  because  immunogenicity  has  not  been  routinely  evaluated  in  the  reference 
group.  
•  The submitted data are too limited to allow a comprehensive evaluation of safety issues of 
darbepoetin alfa in the paediatric population. Therefore, an appropriate pharmacovigilance 
plan should be implemented which should include standard pharmacovigilance procedures 
as  well  as  a  more  proactive  part  to  conduct  appropriate  pharmacovigilance  in  low  used 
products.  A  post-approval  prospective  surveillance  registry  is  suggested  to  monitor  all 
paediatric CRF patients receiving darbepoetin alfa or other epoetins in order to expand the 
safety database and to demonstrate long-term safety of darbepoetin alfa compared to other 
epoetins  in  this  special  population.  The  MAH  should  submit  PSURs  limited  to  the 
paediatric population at six-month intervals for two years after approval. The MAH was 
requested to submit a detailed protocol for a registry before approval of this variation.  
Based  on  the  Posology  and  Method  of  Administration  Section  (4.2)  of  the  Summary  of  Product 
characteristics  for  darbepoetin  alfa,  doses  are  adjusted  by  25%  if  the  Hb  value  is  out  of  the  target 
range.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  some  dose  titration  has  to  be  allowed  to  counteract  the  usually 
occurring  Hb  fluctuations  in  patients  with  renal  anaemia.  Individual  Hb  concentrations  in 
haemodialysis patients are subject to (substantial) fluctuation over time due to factors and concomitant 
disorders such as infections and GI bleedings.  
An additional question regarding study 200000100 was the recommendation to switch from rHuEPO 
to darbepoetin alfa in children with CKD and the fact that the recommendation is not made for adults.  
The CHMP recommended to the MAH provide more data on this matter.  
Further  to  a  request  from  the  CHMP,  the  MAH  submitted  answers  on  the  issues  highlighted  by  the 
CHMP in March. Regarding the first question, the MAH supports that, pharmacokinetic data available 
indicate that PK is similar in subjects < 6 years and those 7 to 16 years. Moreover, darbepoetin alfa PK 
in  pediatric  subjects  (study  980212)  is  similar  to  that  in  adult  CKD  subjects  (55  to  94  years;  Study 
960224). The MAH agreed that the available PK data in subjects < 6 years are scarce and to obtain 
additional data using sparse sampling and to perform population PK analysis. Following completion of 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  population  PK  analysis  and  subsequent  inter-population  comparisons,  the  MAH  will  provide 
results and conclusions on these PK observations, and, if any, their likely clinical importance for this 
titrated drug. The CHMP agree with the MAH on this issue. 
Due  to  the  limited  data  currently  available  on  long  term  safety  associated  with  paediatric  use  of 
darbepoetin alfa in the CKD setting, the second issue requested to the MAH was to provide a proposal 
of registry study to collect long-term safety data on the paediatric population (up to age 16 years) with 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) receiving or not receiving dialysis receiving darbepoetin alfa I order to  
assess  the  usage  pattern  of  darbepoetin  alfa  in  this  paediatric  patient  population,  haemoglobin  and 
selected related laboratory values over time.  
In  addition  to  the  normal  3-yearly  PSUR  reporting  cycle  for  the  product,  the  MAH  commit  to 
providing paediatric PSUR reporting submissions to regulatory authorities every 6 months for the first 
2 years following approval of this variation. Pharmacovigilance findings associated with the registry 
will be combined with those reported through normal post-marketing procedures.   
Finally, the MAH was requested to perform a drug utilisation study to analyse the prevalence of use, 
doses administered, duration of use and the reasons for stopping or switching to another epoetin, the 
indications and the concomitant medication of darbepoetin use in the pediatric population. The MAH 
confirmed that the  registry study 20070211 will provide information on route of administration and 
doses used as well as presence or development of contraindications, i.e. uncontrolled hypertension and 
hypersensitivity reactions but it will not address use of the product outside the approved indications in 
the pediatric population. The CHMP agrees with the MAH that the off-label use of darbepoetin alfa is 
of  little  significance  in  the  pediatric  population  compared  to  the  adult  population.  Therefore,  the 
observational study 20070211 should be sufficient to survey drug utilization. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. The CHMP, 
having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional risk 
minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information 
Summary of the EU Risk Management Plan for Aranesp/Nespo (Darbepoetin alfa) 
Safety Concern 
Immunogenicity 
Thromboembolic 
and cardiovascular 
events 
Pharmacovigilance 
Plan 
Stimulated reporting 
with antibody testing;  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
with enhanced follow-
up for PRCA cases;  
Systematic 
monitoring in ongoing 
studies 
Routine 
Pharmacovigilance;  
Systematically 
collected and 
analyzed in ongoing 
clinical studies 
Risk Minimization Plan 
(All have routine risk minimization and communication 
activities) 
Risk of PRCA, guidance for workup in case of non-
response, and recommendation to stop ESA therapy in 
case of PRCA are described in the “special warnings 
and precautions for use” section 4.4 of the SPC. PRCA 
is also listed in section 4.8. 
Hypersensitivity reactions are described in section 4.3 
and 4.8 of the SPC.  
The potential for increased thromboembolic events is 
described in 4.4 “special warnings and precautions for 
use” section of the SPC, for cancer patients. 
Recommendations against exceeding specific 
hemoglobin concentrations appear for both cancer and 
chronic renal failure indications. 
There is additional information in section 4.8 
“undesirable effects” section of the SPC. It includes 
information on risk of thrombosis of vascular access for 
chronic renal failure patients, and risk of 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Pharmacovigilance 
Plan 
Risk Minimization Plan 
(All have routine risk minimization and communication 
activities) 
thromboembolic reactions for cancer patients. 
Hypertension 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance;  
Section 4.3 of the SPC contraindicate use in poorly 
controlled hypertension 
Convulsions 
Systematically 
collected and 
analyzed in ongoing 
clinical studies 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use in 
chronic renal failure patients specify risk and give 
management guidelines. 
Hypertension is also listed in section 4.8 of the SPC, for 
chronic renal failure patients. 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance;  
Systematically 
collected and 
analyzed in ongoing 
clinical studies 
Section 4.4 -Special warnings and precautions for use in 
chronic renal failure patients notes observed occurrence 
and recommends use with caution in patients with 
epilepsy. 
Convulsion is also listed in section 4.8, for chronic renal 
failure patients. 
13 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Pharmacovigilance 
Plan 
Tumour 
progression and/or 
decreased survival 
among patients 
with malignancies 
Pharmacoviligance 
program with 4 
studies ongoing and 
one completed and 
analyzed.  
Risk Minimization Plan 
(All have routine risk minimization and communication 
activities) 
The potential for tumour growth in cancer patients who 
receive darbepoetin alfa is described in section 4.4 
special warnings and precautions section of the SPC. 
Indication is restricted to non-myeloid malignancies. 
Standard 
Pharmacovigilance;  
Systematic 
monitoring in ongoing 
clinical studies 
Studies targeting this 
specific concern 
Based on study results, SPC to be updated with 
additional physician guidance on the PK profile of 
darbepoetin alfa used in children under 6 years 
Studies targeting this 
specific concern 
Based on study results, SPC to be updated with 
additional physician guidelines on anemia correction in 
the pediatric CKD population 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance;  
Based on study results any necessary long term safety 
concern will be reelected in the SPC.  
Monitoring ongoing 
studies including 
observation registry 
study 
Lack of 
pharmacokinetic 
data on chronic 
renal failure 
patients 1-5 years 
of age 
Lack of data for 
correction of 
anaemia in 
paediatric patients 
with chronic renal 
failure 
Lack of long-term 
safety of 
Darbepoetin alfa in 
pediatric patients 
with chronic renal 
failure 
Benefit/Risk evaluation 
Overall, there is no doubt that darbepoetin alfa is efficacious in treating renal anaemia not only in adult 
and adolescent patients but also in younger children. However, pharmacokinetics of darbepoetin alfa 
may be different (lower AUC and Cmax and higher CL/F) especially in young children compared to 
adolescents  and  adults  (showing  that  younger  children  with  renal  anaemia  require  higher  epoetin 
maintenance doses than do older children or adults), the submitted PK data are extremely limited in 
children < 6 years of age and therefore CHMP requested more PK data in this age group. However, no 
safety  issue  arises  from  these  considerations.  The  MAH  agrees  to  provide  further  PK  data  from 
minimal  sampling  technique  in  this  population.The  benefit-risk  ratio  for  the  proposed  extension  of 
indication, i.e. use of darbepoetin alfa in children < 11 year of age with renal anaemia, is considered 
positive with the MAH’s commitment to providing more PK data in patients < 6 years of age and to 
additional PhV activities. 
5. 
 CONCLUSION 
On  19  July  2007  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet subject 
to the additional commitments undertaken (see below). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments: 
Area1 
Pharmacovigilance  Long term registry study  
Description 
Perform observational registry study to collect long-term safety 
data on the paediatric population with chronic renal failure 
receiving darbepoetin alfa and particularly addressing the 
following risks: 
-thromboembolic events 
-seizures 
-severe hypertension 
-cardiovascular events 
-pure red cell aplasia 
-hypersensitivity reactions  
Due date2 
Study start  
Q2 2008 
Study 
completion 
2013 
Enrolment of 180 subjects (minimum of 30 subjects < 6 years of 
age). 
Pharmacovigilance findings from the registry will be included as 
part of a paediatric specific PSUR, which will be submitted every 
6 months for the first 2 years following approval of the expanded 
paediatric indication for Aranesp in the CKD setting. 
Interim summary results from the registry & drug utilization will 
be submitted annually following study start. 
First report  
 Q2 2009 
Pharmacovigilance  Paediatric PSUR 
First 
submission 
Q2 2008 
Paediatric specific PSUR reporting submissions to regulatory 
authorities will be made every 6 months for the first 2 years 
following approval of the expanded paediatric indication for 
Aranesp in the CKD setting. 
Pharmacokinetic in <6 years old 
Population (single dose) PK data in at least 15 patients < 6 years 
with renal anaemia.  This will investigated as part of US study 
20050256. 
Results from PK sampling to be submitted once completed. 
Paediatric haemoglobin target 
A rationale for the haemoglobin target concentration in children, 
possibly taking into account different age groups should be 
provided. If necessary, adoption of the target value may be 
included in a future variation. 
Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance 
Due date for the follow-up measure or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be 
committed to. 
Q3 2011 
Q1 2008 
Clinical  
1. 
2. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
