European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 3 July 2008   
Doc. Ref No.:EMEA/478499/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
ARANESP 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
darbepoetin alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/332/X/0042 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         
1.  Introduction 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder for Aranesp has submitted a line extension pursuant to Annex II 
of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  1085/2003  (variation  regulation)  in  order  to  replace  the  existing 
manufacturing  process  with  a  more  efficient  high  throughput  (HT)  process,  for  which  a  re-
establishment of the master cell bank was necessary.  
In accordance with the relevant guidelines, i.e. the Note for Guidance on Biotechnological/Biological 
Products  subject  to  changes  in  their  manufacturing  process  (CPMP/ICH/5721/03)  an  extensive 
comparability  exercise  for  darbepoetin  alfa  manufactured  by  the  HT  process  versus  the  currently 
licensed darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the roller bottle (RB) process was conducted to support that 
darbepoetin alfa HT is comparable to darbepoetin alfa RB with regard to quality, safety and efficacy. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  active  substance  of  Aranesp  is  darbepoetin  alfa,  a  hyperglycosylated  recombinant  human 
erythropoietin (rh-EPO) analogue. Darbepoetin alfa is produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells 
by recombinant DNA technology.  
Darbepoetin alfa is currently manufactured by a roller bottle (RB) process that uses recombinant CHO 
cells. The proposed changes to the production process for darbepoetin alfa will replace the current RB 
production  technology  with  a  more  scalable  mode  of  production  in  bioreactors;  concurrently  the 
applicant  removed  or  replaced  certain  media  components.  The  proposed  changes  to  the  production 
process include a re-established cell line and production in suspension cell culture associated with the 
HT process.  
The Drug Product manufacturing process and the presentations remain unchanged.  
Drug substance 
Darbepoetin alfa has been manufactured in recombinant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells that are 
cultivated adherently in roller bottles (RB). The Company has developed a more scalable process for 
which the MCB was re-established. This re-established MCB is optimised to the different cultivation 
conditions.  
For  the  purpose  of  process  validation,  data  from  3  consecutive  commercial  scale  lots  were  used  to 
assess key and critical performance parameters of the cell culture and purification process. Each of the 
three validation runs met all specified acceptance criteria for key and critical performance parameters. 
The  viral  safety  was  well  addressed  in  the  dossier.  Media  used  during  culturing  of  the  cells  do  not 
contain any material directly derived from animal or human origin. Comparability for the laboratory 
scale studies with the 15 kL process scale has been shown. 
An  extensive  biochemical  and  biophysical  characterisation  programme  for  darbepoetin  alfa  drug 
substance derived from the HT process has been conducted on three batches at the 2 kL pilot scale and 
three batches at the 15 kL commercial scale.  
Darbepoetin alfa drug substance from all three processes and scales showed comparable bioactivity in 
the bioassay. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the characterisation data of darbepoetin alfa HT from the 2 kL and 15 kL processes it can be 
concluded that no significant differences were observed between the scales. Therefore darbepoetin alfa 
drug  substance  from  the  2  kL  scale,  which  was  used  in  clinical  studies,  can  be  considered 
representative of darbepoetin alfa drug substance from the 15 kL scale. 
The  stability  program  was  conducted  to  investigate  the  stability  of  darbepoetin  alfa  drug  substance 
from the HT process in two different containers, the currently used container and a newly introduced 
container,  at  the  recommended  storage  temperature  of  5°C  (2°-8°C),  as  well  as  at  temperatures  of 
29°C (27-30°C) and 37°C (35-39°C). Assays and acceptance criteria used for the stability program are 
identical to those used for the licensed RB process with the addition of the appearance assay. 
No difference resulted from storage of pilot scale 2 kL HT lots at 5°C for up to 24 months in the two 
container types thus the current commercial drug substance expiry period of 24 months is considered 
confirmed. The stability results of the 2 kL HT lots indicate that the stability profile is consistent and 
comparable with material from the RB process. 
12 months of stability data are available for the HT 15 kL validation lots stored at recommended and 
accelerated  conditions  in  the  proposed  polypropylene  container.  Results  are  consistent  with  those 
observed  for  HT  2  kL  lots.  Data  obtained  to  date  for  the  HT  15  kL  lots  at  accelerated  conditions 
exhibit comparable stability profiles for the HT 2kL and RB material. 
•  Comparability Exercise for Drug Substance 
The overall comparability approach for darbepoetin alfa HT includes clinical comparability, analytical 
comparability,  analytical  methods  comparability  where  methods  were  to  be  changed,  process 
comparability and comparability of the drug product. 
Analytical comparability was based on lot release testing, additional extended characterisation of the 
drug substance and stability testing. 
In conclusion, the comparison of darbepoetin alfa drug substance from all processes by various high-
level  analytical  techniques  revealing  a  profound  insight  into  the  structural  characteristics  of  the 
molecule and confirmed a high level of comparability between darbepoetin alfa drug substance from 
the currently licensed RB process and darbepoetin alfa from the 2 kL and 15 kL HT process. 
Impurities 
The applicant does not discriminate between product-related substances and product-related impurities 
and considers all variants (active and inactive) as product-related impurities.  
Product-related impurities including higher and lower molecular weight species (HMWS and LMWS), 
darbepoetin  alfa  with  oxidised  methionine  and  other  protein  modifications  were  examined  by  the 
Applicant.  
Generally,  the  process-  and  product  related  impurities  in  the  drug  substance  from  the  RB  and  HT 
processes are considered comparable. 
Drug Product 
The composition or formulation of the drug product is identical to the currently licensed 
product. The drug product is currently presented as a liquid ready-to-use formulation either in a 
pre-filled syringe (PFS) or a vial.  
The proposed shelf life specification is mainly identical to the shelf life specification presented at the 
initial  submission.  Changes  introduced  into  the  drug  product  specification  enhance  the  quality 
assurance of the product and align with PhEur expectations. 
12  months  data  are  available  to  assess  drug  product  stability  of  batches  derived  from  15  kL  drug 
substance lots. All data gained so far were within the acceptance limits.   
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As these data are supplemented by 24 months of data generated on clinical drug product lots derived 
from drug substance 2 kL process, a shelf-life of 24 months for drug product is considered justified.  
•  Comparability Exercise for Drug Product  
Studies  were  performed  to  demonstrate  comparability  between  drug  products  containing  drug 
substance derived from RB process, from HT 2kL process and from HT 15 KL process.  
It  was  demonstrated  that  all  release  data  of  drug  product  lots  of  the  proposed  HT  process  met  the 
acceptance  criteria  originally  established  for  RB  drug  product,  independently  of  whether  the  drug 
substance  was  derived  from  2  kL  or  15  kL  process.  This  finding  was  also  confirmed  by  additional 
testing of oxidised variants and aggregates.  
Likewise, no significant differences were observed between degradation rates of drug product 
containing drug substance produced by HT 2kL or RB manufacturing processes in the first 
comparability stability study. In addition, in a second stability study, up to 12 months of stability data 
have been evaluated in order to compare drug product derived from RB, HT 2kL and HT 15 kL 
processes. No significant differences were observed at the recommended storage conditions.  
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp) is a hyperglycosylated analogue of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-
HuEPO)  and  is  an  erythropoiesis-stimulating  protein  that  supports  the  survival,  growth,  and 
differentiation  of  erythroid  progenitor  cells  in  the  bone  marrow.  To  support  the  change  in  the 
manufacturing  process  to  a  HT  process  the  MAH  conducted  three  preclinical  studies  to  compare 
darbepoetin  alfa  manufactured  by  HT  technology  to  that  manufactured  by  the  licensed  RB  process. 
These  include  a  single-dose  pharmacokinetics  study  in  male  beagle  dogs  (study  103100),  a  4-week 
toxicity  study  in  beagle  dogs  including  pharmacokinetic  and  immunological  measurements  (study 
103367), and an in vitro binding study on frozen sections of various human tissues (study 103528). All 
studies were performed in direct comparison of darbepoetin alfa RB and darbepoetin alfa HT.  
Pharmacology  
Pharmacodynamic data on the comparison between darbepoetin alfa HT and darbepoetin alfa RB can 
be retrieved from an in-vitro receptor binding study on human tissue sections and from the repeated-
dose  toxicology  study  in  dogs.  The  latter  study  encompassed  weekly  measurements  of  relevant 
haematological  parameters,  which  are  the  prime  targets  for  epoetin  treatment,  in  direct  comparison 
between  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  darbepoetin  alfa  RB.  In  this  study  the  haematological  parameters 
changed  over  time  of  treatment  as  expected  (increase  in  red  blood  cell  count,  haemoglobin, 
haematocrit, reticulocytes and related parameters), and there were no meaningful differences between 
the two preparations tested so that pharmacodynamic comparability could be confirmed. 
The  in-vitro  receptor  binding  study  on  slices  of  various  human  tissues  was  aimed  at  not  only 
comparing binding to the epoetin target cells in the bone marrow but also to detecting potential off-
target  sites  in  other  organs  or  tissues.  However,  no  competition  experiments  were  performed  within 
this  study  to  enable  clear  discrimination  between  specific  and  unspecific  binding.  Furthermore,  the 
results of the study were difficult to assess because no photographs of the stained tissue sections were 
provided.  The  method  was  rather  complex  as  antibodies  were  employed  to  detect  bound  epoetin 
(instead  of  using  labelled  epoetin)  which  makes  interpretation  more  complicated.  Nevertheless,  the 
clear pharmacodynamic results of the repeated dose dog study are considered sufficient to demonstrate 
comparability at the pharmacodynamic level. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Classical  ADME  studies  were  not  performed,  and  these  are  not  considered  necessary  for  a 
comparability exercise. The main pharmacokinetic parameters AUC and Cmax were determined after a 
single administration of both preparations in direct comparison and after repeated administration (three 
times a week for four weeks), also in direct comparison. This was done in one animal species, dog, 
and  this  is  considered  satisfactory.  No  meaningful  changes  were  detected  between  the  two 
preparations darbepoetin alfa HT and darbepoetin alfa RB; an around 25 % higher exposure (AUC) of 
darbepoetin  alfa  HT  as  compared  to  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  after  four  weeks  of  application  is  not 
considered  biologically  relevant  given  the  rather  high  inter-individual  variation  of  AUC  values. 
Therefore comparability can be assumed at the level of preclinical pharmacokinetics. 
Toxicology 
The  standard  toxicological  parameters  determined  in  the  4  wk  repeated-dose  dog  study  were  in  line 
with  the  erythropoetic  effect  of  darbepoetin  alfa,  were  considered  secondary  to  increased 
haematopoesis,  and  are  well  known  from  other  epoetin  preparations.  No  meaningful  differences 
between  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  were  observed  and  no  unexpected  toxicities 
occurred with either preparation. Therefore, comparability was shown at the level of general toxicity. 
Antigenicity of both preparations was also tested in the repeated-dose study in each dog. Antibodies 
against  darbepoetin  alfa  were  detected  immunologically in  a  biosensor  after  four  weeks  in  the  same 
number of animals treated with darbepoetin alfa HT and darbepoetin alfa RB arguing for a comparable 
immunogenic potential of both preparations. Nevertheless, when considering the amount of antibodies 
formed  (given  as  µg/mL  by  the biosensor  procedure  used)  the  animals  treated  with  darbepoetin  alfa 
RB  had  all  over  lower  serum  antibody  concentrations  (a  few  microgram  per  mL)  than  the  animals 
treated with the darbepoetin alfa HT material. 
Serum samples which tested positive for antibodies in the immunogenic assay were also screened for 
neutralising capacity in a cell culture based bioassay.  In addition, an indirect indicator of the possible 
formation  of  neutralising  antibodies  was  a  marked  decrease  in  reticulocytes  in  some  of  the  treated 
dogs, although it was noted that in some cases the results of the bioassay did not fit the haematological 
observations  (either  the  bioassay  was  positive  whereas  no  decrease  in  reticulocytes  was  detected  or, 
vice  versa,  there  was  a  marked  decrease  in  reticulocyte  count  but  a  negative  bioassay).  A  possible 
explanation for this discrepancy would be that the drop in reticulocytes was due to iron deficiency in 
some animals. 
All  three  preclinical  studies  (103100,  103367  and  103528)  were  performed  according  to  GLP 
regulations  except  the  steps  in  study  103528  undertaken  to  optimise  the  immunohistochemistry 
method used. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetic study 
One  comparative  PK  study,  study  20030247,  has  been  submitted,  which  was  a  randomized,  2-way, 
open-label,  crossover  study  to  assess  the  comparability  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  darbepoetin  alfa 
manufactured by HT versus RB processes following subcutaneous administration of darbepoetin alfa 
in healthy subjects.  48 healthy subjects, 32 women and 16 men were included into the study. Subjects 
received 2 single doses (1 µg/kg) of darbepoetin alfa manufactured using HT and RB technology, with 
14  days  of  pharmacokinetic  sampling  in  each  study  period.  A  28-day  washout  period  separated 
administrations. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was the pharmacokinetic parameter AUC0-t of darbepoetin alfa. The secondary 
endpoints were the additional pharmacokinetic parameters AUC0-∞, Cmax, tmax, apparent clearance 
(CL/F), mean residence time (MRT), and terminal half life (t ½z). 
Furthermore, safety endpoints including subject incidence of adverse events and clinically significant 
changes  in  vital  signs,  physical  exams,  clinical  laboratory  tests,  ECG´s  and  the  incidence  of 
neutralizing  seroreactivity.  Two  subjects  discontinued participation  in  the  study before  the  2nd  dose 
because of a positive drug screen when checking in for period 2. Both subjects received darbepoetin 
alfa manufactured using the HT process in period 1 and were not included in the PK analysis.  
Forty-eight subjects had complete pharmacokinetic data for darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the HT 
process, and 46 subjects for the RB process. Forty-six subjects were included in the pharmacokinetic 
analysis for AUC0-t and Cmax.  
The  90%  CI  for  comparison  of  AUC0-t  for  darbepoetin  alfa  manufactured  using  the  HT  and  RB 
technologies was within the predefined acceptance criteria (80% to 125%). The 90% CI for the ratio of 
AUC0-∞  and  Cmax  for  the  two  manufacturing  processes  were  also  within  the  acceptance  range.  In 
addition, mean CL/F, MRT, and t1/2z values, as well as median Tmax values, were comparable for the 
HT and RB manufacturing methods of darbepoetin alfa. 
AUC0-∞ values could not be reliably determined for 7 subjects for one or both treatments, since the 
portion  of  the  estimated  AUC0-∞  value  determined  by  extrapolation  exceeded  20%  (reflecting 
uncertainty  in  the  parameter  estimate);  therefore,  39  subjects  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic 
analysis for AUC0-∞. However, the point estimate (90% CI) when these 7 subjects were included in 
the  analysis  was  still  within  the  acceptance  range  (99.8;  [97%  to  102%]).  Comparative  PK  data 
demonstrating comparable PK profiles were provided for SC use but not for IV use.  
The issue of the need of a further PK study for the IV route of administration has been discussed by 
the  CHMP.  The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  in  this  special  case  a  further  PK  study  for  IV 
administration in addition to the already submitted SC study is not necessary because the results for 
the SC route of administration demonstrated equivalent PK profiles and the SC route of administration 
is  more  sensitive  to  possible  changes  concerning  the  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  product’s  PK  profile. 
Furthermore, additional subgroup analysis for SC and IV treated patients of the current efficacy and 
safety study have been provided with the MAH´s response in order to support equivalent efficacy for 
both routes of administration. 
Pharmacodynamic study 
No PD study has been performed for this procedure. However, PD parameters are not critical, since 
phase III efficacy/safety studies have been provided. 
Clinical efficacy 
One  clinical  efficacy  study  (Study  20040104)  has  been  provided  to  demonstrate  comparability  of 
efficacy  for  darbepoetin  alfa  produced  by  RB  and  HT  process.  The  efficacy  study  is  the  only 
controlled trial which has been submitted for this line extension procedure and therefore considered as 
pivotal study for comparison of efficacy and safety. 
Study 20040104 
Study  20040104  aimed  at  studying  the  efficacy  of  darbepoetin  alfa  manufactured  by  HT  bioreactor 
technology  and  darbepoetin  alpha  manufactured  by  RB  technology  for  the  treatment  of  anemia  in 
patients with chronic kidney disease receiving haemodialysis. The study was designed and performed 
as a maintenance study. 
Patients who were stable on treatment with darbepoetin alfa RB were randomised to receive either 
darbepoetin alfa RB or darbepoetin alfa HT for 28 weeks (20 weeks titration period and 8 weeks 
evaluation period). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
446 patients with chronic kidney disease were randomized, 222 for darbepoetin alfa HT and 224 for 
darbepoetin  alfa  RB.  Renal  disease  aetiology  and  baseline  characteristics  were  comparable  in  the  2 
treatment groups. 
Subjects  were  treated  for  up  to  28  weeks  according  to  their  randomised  treatment  assignment  with 
either  with  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  or  HT.  Patients  received  IV  or  SC  application  of  darbepoetin  alfa 
maintaining the same route of administration, dose and frequency (once weekly or once every other 
week) they had received before randomisation.  Only 35 patients in the HT group and 37 patients in 
the  RB  group  were  treated  with  darbepoetin  alfa  as  SC  application.  The  results  for  both  primary 
efficacy  endpoints  show  comparable  efficacy  of  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  and  darbepoetin  alfa  HT 
according to the predefined acceptance criteria: 
362  subjects  (81%;  183  HT,  179  RB)  were  included  in  the  primary  analysis  set  and  438  (99%;  217 
HT, 221 RB) were included in the full analysis set. Mean (SD) baseline haemoglobin concentrations 
were 11.8 (0.80)g/dL and 11.8 (0.78) g/dL and mean (SD) baseline darbepoetin alfa doses were 0.49 
(0.31) and 0.52 (0.48) μg/kg/week for the darbepoetin alfa HT and RB groups, respectively. 
The first primary endpoint, the difference in mean change in haemoglobin concentration from baseline 
to the evaluation period between the darbepoetin alfa HT and RB groups was -0.19 g/dL (95% CI: -
0.42,  0.03  g/dL).  The  2-sided  95%  CI  was  entirely  within  the  protocol  specified  and  acceptable 
equivalence margin (±0.5 g/dL). 
The  second  primary  endpoint,  the  mean  difference  in  log-transformed  ratio  of  dose  during  the 
evaluation period to the baseline dose between darbepoetin alfa HT and RB was 0.06 (90% CI: -0.03, 
0.16). The 2-sided 90% CI was within the protocol-specified equivalence margin of log (0.80) to log 
(1.25), or -0.223 to 0.223. Equivalence between darbepoetin alfa HT and RB regarding haemoglobin 
maintenance and dose was also demonstrated in a sensitivity analysis performed on the full analysis 
set.  
Concerning the secondary endpoints, in the primary analysis set, mean (SD) change in haemoglobin 
concentrations from baseline during the treatment period ranged from -0.17 (1.12) to 0.16 (1.04) g/dL 
for darbepoetin alfa HT and from -0.00 (1.16) to 0.27 (1.09) g/dL for darbepoetin alfa RB. In addition, 
70%  of  subjects  in  both  treatment  groups  had  haemoglobin  concentrations  within  the  target  range 
during the evaluation period. 
Median  (range)  baseline  weekly  dose  was  30  (5  to  150)  μg/week  for  both  treatment  groups  in  the 
primary  analysis  set.  Median  (range)  weekly  doses  during  the  evaluation  period  were  25.00  (0  to 
175.0) and 20.00 (0 to 143.8) μg/week for darbepoetin alfa HT and RB, respectively. Median change 
in dose from baseline was 0 μg/week at each time point for both treatment groups, except for one time 
point (-2.50 μg/week for darbepoetin alfa RB at week 28). 
The mean change in dose from baseline decreased during the first 12 and 11 weeks to approximately -
7 μg/week for darbepoetin alfa HT and RB, respectively, and then remained relatively stable for both 
treatment groups. 
Taken  together,  the  secondary  and  ancillary  analyses  support  the  conclusions  from  the  primary 
analyses. Therefore, comparable efficacy between darbepoetin alfa RB and HT has been demonstrated 
according to the pre-defined criteria. 
As for all efficacy parameters, the 95% confidence interval for treatment differences is required. The 
90% confidence interval for the co-primary endpoint dose ratio which was presented with the original 
study documentation is not acceptable. The MAH has therefore provided additional results calculating 
the  95%  CI  for  the  difference  in  log-transformed  ratio  of  dose  during  the  evaluation  period  to  the 
baseline dose. For the primary Hb-targeted efficacy parameter the 95% CI for the difference in weekly 
dose ratio is (-0.05 to 0.18) for the primary analysis set and (-0.05 to 0.19) for the full analysis set. The 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
2-sided  95%  CI  also  lies  within  the  predefined  equivalence  margin  of  log  (0.80)  to  log  (0.125)  or  -
0.223 to 0.223.  
The  chosen  equivalence  margins  for  darbepoetin  alfa  dose  has  been  provided  and  justified  by  the 
MAH.  The  MAH  drew  upon  criteria  usually  employed  for  bioequivalence  (FDA  Guidance  for 
Industry,  Statistical  Approaches  to  Establishing  Bioequivalence,  2001)  to  demonstrate  equivalent 
efficacy.  
In the efficacy study 20040204, IV administration was used for the majority of patients and, therefore, 
the conclusion of comparable efficacy for SC administered darbepoetin alfa HT and RB was requested 
to be further justified by the MAH and at least some supportive evidence for comparable efficacy for 
this  route  of  administration  was  requested.  The  MAH  subsequently  submitted  additional  subgroup 
analysis for the SC and IV application for the primary endpoints haemoglobin level and dose. There 
were no meaningful treatment differences in these primary endpoints either for the IV or the SC route 
of administration. Although the number of patients who received SC darbepoetin alfa is small (only 35 
patients  in  the  HT  group  and  37  patients  in  the  RB  group  were  treated  with  SC  administered 
darbepoetin alfa), the data further support equivalent efficacy of darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the 
HT and RB processes for the SC route of administration.  
In addition, the MAH was requested to provide additional efficacy analyses from the safety trial (for 
description  see  below)  which  should  be  restricted  to  patients  having  received  darbepoetin  alfa  RB 
before and darbepoetin alfa HT after the switch and preferably include intra-individual comparisons of 
Hb concentrations and darbepoetin alfa doses during the 4 weeks before with those during the period 
8-12 weeks after the switch.  
Information on route of administration for individual patients was not available from the safety study. 
Since it is current practice that non-dialysis and peritoneal dialysis CKD subjects receive darbepoetin 
alfa via subcutaneous (SC) injections and most haemodialysis CKD subjects receive darbepoetin alfa 
via  intra-venous  (IV)  injections,  the  applicant  used  these  patient  groups  as  surrogates  for  route  of 
administration.  This  approach  is  considered  acceptable.  The  vast  majority  of  patients  were  not  on 
dialysis and received darbepoetin alfa via SC route of administration. The mean baseline haemoglobin 
level was comparable in all treatment groups. As expected, the mean darbepoetin alfa dosages differed 
between  treatment  groups  (highest  in  patients  on  haemodialysis).  There  was  no  clinically  relevant 
change in mean Hb at 8 to 12 weeks after the switch from darbepoetin alfa RB to darbepoetin alfa HT 
compared to baseline. The change in mean dose from baseline to weeks 8-12 was different among the 
treatment groups but, overall, the change in darbepoetin alfa dosage was not meaningful. These results 
further support the assumption of equivalent efficacy for the SC route of administration. 
Taking together the finding of comparable PK profiles for SC use and the supportive efficacy data on 
SC  use  (surrogate  “pre-dialysis  and  peritoneal  dialysis  patients”  in  the  safety  study),  equivalent 
efficacy  of  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  and  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  can  be  concluded  for  the  SC  route  of 
administration. 
Clinical safety  
•  PK Study 
Twenty-three  (48%)  subjects  reported  at  least  1  adverse  event  (11  [23%]  HT,  17  [37%]  RB).  Five 
subjects reported at least 1 adverse event during both periods. The most common treatment-emergent 
adverse events were headache (5 [10%] subjects) and abdominal pain and dizziness (4 [8%] subjects 
for  each  event).  No  notable  differences  occurred  in  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  for  the  two 
different manufacturing processes. No serious adverse events occurred during the PK study. 
•  Efficacy Study 
Study 20040104 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparative  safety  data  for  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  RB  resulted  from  the  current  pivotal  efficacy 
study 20040104. Safety data from the uncontrolled safety study are considered to be supportive only. 
Overall, the observed AE profile is consistent with the underlying disease and its severity. 
In  the  comparative  efficacy  study  20040104  no  relevant  differences  in  frequency  of  overall  and 
specific  adverse  events,  including  AEs  of  particular  interest,  were  observed  for  darbepoetin  alfa  HT 
compared  to  darbepoetin  alfa  RB.  The  frequency  of  SAEs  and  death  was  similar  in  patients  treated 
with darbepoetin alfa RB or HT, which was considered reassuring by the CHMP. 
Of the 442 subjects included in the safety analysis  set, 174 (79%) in the darbepoetin alfa HT group 
and 174 (78%) in the darbepoetin alfa RB group reported ≥ 1 adverse event during the study. The most 
common  adverse  events  in  both  treatment  groups  were  muscle  spasms  (13%  HT,  9%  RB)  and 
hypotension (10% HT, 9% RB). Treatment-related adverse events were reported for 6 subjects (3%) in 
the darbepoetin alfa HT group and 8 (4%) in the darbepoetin alfa RB group.  
The  proportion  of  subjects  experiencing  serious  adverse  events  was  similar  between  the  treatment 
groups (29% HT, 32% RB). Two [1%] subjects in the darbepoetin alfa HT group and 4 [2%] in the 
darbepoetin  alfa  RB  group  experienced  serious  adverse  events,  which  were  considered  treatment-
related by the investigator. Seven subjects (3%) in the darbepoetin alfa HT group and 4 (2%) in the 
darbepoetin alfa RB group were withdrawn from the study because of an adverse event, none of which 
were considered treatment-related by the investigator. Fourteen subjects (6%) in the darbepoetin alfa 
HT  group  and  15  (7%)  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  group  died  during  the  study.  Three  fatal  adverse 
events, 1 (sudden death) in the darbepoetin alfa HT group and 2 (thrombosis and cerebral circulatory 
failure) in the darbepoetin alfa RB group, were considered treatment-related by the investigator. 
No differences between both treatment groups were seen concerning Hb excursions. Twenty percent 
and  22%  of  subjects  in  the  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  RB  groups,  respectively,  had  ≥1  haemoglobin 
excursion (> 14.0 g/dL) during the study. Haemoglobin concentrations decreased and remained ≤13.0 
g/dL  for  most  of  these  subjects  (95%  HT,  90%  RB).  The  median  time  required  for  haemoglobin  to 
return to ≤ 13.0 g/dL was 3 and 4 weeks for the darbepoetin alfa HT and RB groups, respectively. 
One  non-comparative  safety  trial,  study  20040180,  has  been  performed  with  darbepoetin  alfa  HT.  
Furthermore, safety data from the PK study and the efficacy study have been provided. 
For  safety  comparison  data  were  pooled  from  two  previous  studies  of  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  in  non-
dialysis subjects (Studies 20010212 and 20030153) and three previous studies of darbepoetin alfa RB 
in dialysis subjects (Studies 970200, 980117, and 980140) to draw comparisons with the safety profile 
of darbepoetin alfa HT. 
Study 20040180 
Study  20040180  is  an  Open-label,  Single–Arm  Study  to  Assess  the  Safety  of  Darbepoetin  Alfa 
Manufactured by HT Technology in Subjects with Chronic Kidney Disease. 
This open-label, multicentre trial evaluated the safety of darbepoetin alfa administered to subjects who 
either were receiving dialysis or not receiving dialysis. All subjects were receiving therapy with either 
darbepoetin alfa or rHuEPO at the time of enrolment. Darbepoetin alfa was to be administered for up 
to 52 weeks followed by an End-of-Study visit. The study concluded with a post-treatment assessment 
after the last dose of darbepoetin alfa, at approximately week 53. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  determine  whether  darbepoetin  alfa  manufactured  by  the  current  RB 
process and darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the HT process have a comparable safety profile. 
The  secondary  objective  was  to  characterize  laboratory  parameters  in  subjects  with  CKD  and  the 
seroreactivity of darbepoetin alfa with the HT manufacturing process. 
One thousand one hundred and twenty seven patients with CKD were enrolled, 560 subjects requiring 
and 567 subjects not receiving dialysis, 603 men (54%) and 524 women (46%).  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 560 subjects in the non-dialysis group, 554 (99%) received ≥ 1 dose of darbepoetin alfa HT. 
Seventy-nine  percent  of  these  subjects  completed  dosing  with  darbepoetin  alfa  and  119  (21%) 
withdrew from the study. 
Of the 567 subjects in the dialysis group, 452 (99%) receiving haemodialysis and 110 (98%) receiving 
peritoneal  dialysis  received  ≥  1  dose  of  investigational  product.  Seventy-one  percent  of  subjects 
receiving  haemodialysis  and  60%  of  peritoneal  dialysis  subjects  completed  all  planned  doses  of 
darbepoetin alfa HT. 133 (29%) withdrew from the study. 
Non-dialysis group 
Adverse events occurred in 464 (84%) subjects in the non-dialysis group. The most common adverse 
events in this group were hypertension (25%) and peripheral oedema (10%). Hypertension (3%) and 
injection  site  pain  (2%)  were  the  most  common  treatment  related  adverse  events.  Serious  adverse 
events  occurred  in  182  (33%)  non-dialysis  subjects.  Chronic  renal  failure  was  the  most  common 
serious adverse event (6%) in this group of subjects. Treatment related serious adverse events occurred 
in  2  non-dialysis  subjects  (1  subject  had  a  deep  vein  thrombosis  and  the  other,  worsening 
hypertension)  and  in  each  instance,  resulted  in  their  withdrawal  from  the  study.  Seventeen  (3%) 
subjects were withdrawn from the study due to adverse events; 3 subjects had an adverse event that 
was  considered  to  be  related  to  investigational  product  by  the  investigator.  These  adverse  events 
occurred in 1 subject each and were deep vein thrombosis, worsening hypertension, and rash. Twenty-
one  (4%)  subjects  in  the  non-dialysis  group  died  during  the  study;  the  most  common  fatal  adverse 
events  were  myocardial  infarction  (4  subjects),  or  acute  myocardial  infarction  (2  subjects),  and 
respiratory  failure  (3  subjects),  and  coronary  artery  disease  (2  subjects).  None  of  the  deaths  were 
considered  to  be  treatment  related  by  the  investigator.  The  proportion  of  subjects  with  ≥  1 
haemoglobin excursion was 16%. The median time for haemoglobin values to return to ≤ 13.0 g/dL 
was 6 weeks. 
Dialysis Group 
Adverse  events  occurred  in  522  (89%)  subjects  in  the  dialysis  group.  The  most  common  adverse 
events in this group were hypertension (22%), nausea (13%) and diarrhoea (12%). Hypertension (3%), 
injection  site  pain  (3%),  and  arteriovenous  fistula  thrombosis  in  haemodialysis  subjects  only  (1%) 
were  the  most  common  treatment  related  adverse  events.  Serious  adverse  events  occurred  in  249 
(43%) dialysis subjects. Congestive cardiac failure was the most common serious adverse event (4%) 
in  dialysis  subjects.  One  of  these  subjects  had  a  treatment  related  serious  adverse  event 
(hypersensitivity)  and  was  withdrawn  from  the  study.  Eighteen  (3%)  subjects  in  the  dialysis  group 
were  withdrawn  from  the  study  due  to  adverse  events;  3  subjects  had  an  adverse  event  that  was 
considered to be related to investigational product by the investigator (hypersensitivity, hypertension, 
and increased appetite). Forty-five (8%) subjects in the dialysis group died during this study; the most 
common fatal adverse events were chronic renal failure (7 subjects), and acute myocardial infarction, 
congestive  cardiac  failure,  coronary  artery  disease,  myocardial  infarction,  and  sudden  death  in  3 
subjects  each.  None  of  the  deaths  were  considered  to  be  treatment  related  by  the  investigator.  The 
proportion of subjects with ≥ 1 haemoglobin excursion was 27%. The median time for haemoglobin 
values to return to ≤13.0 g/dL was 4 weeks. 
Historical Trials 
The non-dialysis studies 2002012 and 20030153 were included 97 and 150 patients respectively. 86 
(89%) and 129 (86%) of patients completed the trials respectively. 
The  dialysis  studies  970200,  980117  and  980140  were  performed  with  344,  169  and  703  patients 
respectively  and  246  (72%),  141  (83%)  and  528  (75%)  patients  who  completed  the  studies 
respectively. The majority of patients had hypertension in their medical history and/or diabetes. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison with historical data is difficult due to differences in study design and target Hb as well as 
possible differences in patient population and improved patient management over time. Therefore, the 
results  from  the  comparison  with  historical  trials  or  based  on  pooled  data  can  be  considered  as 
supportive data only. Nevertheless, no new safety signal emerged from this comparison. 
The  MAH  has  presented  the  main  study  characteristics  for  the  five  historical  safety  studies.  The 
CHMP agrees that despite some differences in the study design and study population, due to the fact 
that all studies were maintenance studies with a comparable achieved mean Hb level and only minor 
changes in mean Hb during all of these trials, the safety data of the historical studies can be used for 
comparison with the safety results of the current studies. 
Exposure  to  the  study  drug  was  different  among  the  studies.  In  the  patients  not  on  dialysis,  mean 
duration  of  exposure  was  47  weeks  for  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  29  weeks  for  darbepoetin  alfa  RB. 
Therefore,  exposure-adjusted  subject  incidences  of  AEs  were  calculated  which  is  considered 
acceptable for maintenance studies. Hb target levels were different in all but one study compared to 
the current safety study.  
In the non-dialysis group, all patients on darbepoetin alfa RB received the drug once monthly, whereas 
patients  on  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  received  the  drug  preferably  once  every  two  weeks.  It  is  unclear 
whether this difference may affect the frequency of some AEs. 
To  account  for  differences  in  treatment  duration  between  the  current  and  comparator  studies,  the 
exposure-adjusted subject incidence of adverse events was used to compare the adverse event profiles. 
Consistent  with  the  expected  co-morbidities  in  the  CKD  population,  adverse  events  were  common 
across  treatment  groups  for  non-dialysis  and  dialysis  subjects.  Adverse  event  incidences  in  non-
dialysis subjects were 2.5 and 3.6 per patient-year for darbepoetin alfa HT and RB, respectively (the 
subject  incidence  was  84%  and  83%,  respectively).  Adverse  event  incidences  in  dialysis  subjects 
receiving darbepoetin alfa HT and RB were 4.0 and 6.5 per patient-year, respectively (the respective 
subject incidence was 89% and 95%). Treatment-related adverse events for darbepoetin alfa HT were 
similar to, or lower than, darbepoetin alfa RB for both non-dialysis and dialysis groups. In non-dialysis 
subjects,  the  incidence  of  fatal  adverse  events  was  0.043  and  0.036  per  patient-year  for  darbepoetin 
alfa  HT  and  RB,  respectively  (the  subject  incidences  were  4%  and  2%,  respectively).  For  dialysis 
subjects, the respective incidences of fatal adverse events were 0.095 and 0.105 per patient year (the 
respective  subject  incidence  was  8%  and  9%).  Serious  adverse  events  for  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  were 
lower than darbepoetin alfa RB for both non-dialysis and dialysis groups. In non-dialysis subjects, the 
incidence of serious adverse events was 0.431 and 0.558 per patient year for darbepoetin alfa HT and 
RB,  respectively  (the  subject  incidences  were  33%  and  28%,  respectively).  For  dialysis  subjects  the 
respective  incidences  were  0.678  and  0.761  per  patient  year  (the  respective  subject  incidences  were 
43%  and  48%,  respectively).  The  incidences  of  serious  adverse  events  considered  related  to 
darbepoetin alfa HT and RB were 0.004 and 0.007 per patient year, respectively, in the non-dialysis 
groups and 0.002 and 0.055 per patient year, respectively, in the dialysis group. The respective subject 
incidences  for  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  RB  for  the  non-dialysis  group  was  0%  and  0%,  and  for  the 
dialysis group, 0% and 5%. 
The MAH has provided additional data concerning the number of withdrawals in the historical studies 
and  their  relation  to  study  medication.  A  comparison  of  withdrawals  due  to  adverse  events  of  the 
historical and current studies did not reveal any meaningful differences in frequencies and the reasons 
for study discontinuation reflect the disease characteristics of this study population. 
The MAH has further presented additional listings of deaths for all historical trials. The proportion and 
causes  of  deaths  in  the  current  studies  are  comparable  to  the  proportion  of  those  reported  from 
historical studies.  
Immunogenicity data 
Seroreactivity analysis has been performed for all current studies, the PK, the efficacy and the safety 
study. During the efficacy study 20040104, the majority of patients were treated with IV administered 
darbepoetin alfa. The IV route of administration is considered less immunogenic than the SC route of 
11 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
administration. Therefore, no valid conclusion on the immunogenicity of SC administered darbepoetin 
alfa can be drawn from this study. 
Immunogenicity data have not been analysed according to route of administration (SC or IV) in either 
the  efficacy  or  the  safety  study.  It  is  not  clear,  how  many  patients  were  treated  by  SC  and  IV 
administration  and  which  patients  developed  non-neutralizing  antibodies.  Therefore,  additional 
analyses  of  immunogenicity  data  separately  for  each  route  of  administration  for  the  current  efficacy 
and safety study have been requested.  
The  MAH  has  submitted  the  requested  immunogenicity  data  separately  for  SC  and  IV  route  of 
administration  for  the  efficacy  study  (20040104).  As  for  the  safety  study  (20040180)  the  route  of 
administration for individual patients had not been documented for the surrogates “not on dialysis and 
peritoneal dialysis” for SC use and on the other hand “on dialysis” for IV use have been used as this 
reflects current clinical practice. This approach is considered acceptable. 
No neutralizing antibodies were detected in the PK, efficacy or safety study. No significant differences 
in antibody incidence have been observed between the SC and IV route of administration or between 
darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the HT and RB processes. The results suggest that darbepoetin alfa 
manufactured  by  the  HT  process  is  no  more  immunogenic  than  that  manufactured  by  the  currently 
licensed RB process.  
PK Study 
No  subject  developed  anti-darbepoetin  alfa  antibodies  in  this  study.  Three  subjects  had  pre-existing 
non-neutralizing antibodies that reacted to either darbepoetin alfa or epoetin alfa. 
Efficacy Study 
Pre-  and  post-treatment  antibody  assay  results  were  available  for  84%  and  83%  of  subjects  in  the 
darbepoetin alfa HT and RB groups, respectively. All subjects tested in the bioassay were negative for 
neutralizing antibodies to darbepoetin alfa or epoetin alfa. 
Three  hundred  seventy-two  subjects  (189  HT,  183  RB)  were  tested  for  antibodies  during  the  study. 
Twelve (5%) and 16 (7%) of subjects from the darbepoetin alfa HT and RB groups, respectively, were 
positive  for  binding,  non-neutralizing  antibodies.  Six  (3%)  and  10  (5%)  subjects  tested  in  the 
darbepoetin  alfa  HT  and  RB  groups,  respectively,  were  positive  for  low-level,  binding,  non-
neutralizing  antibodies  before  and  after  receiving  treatment.  The  antibody  concentrations  for  these 
subjects did not change significantly throughout the treatment period. Five (2%) and 6 (3%) subjects 
tested in the darbepoetin alfa HT and RB groups, respectively, developed low levels of binding, non-
neutralizing  antibodies  to  darbepoetin  alfa  and/or  epoetin  alfa  during  the  study.  One  subject  was 
missing  a  baseline  sample  and  was  positive  for  binding,  non-neutralizing  antibodies  to  darbepoetin 
alfa  and  epoetin  alfa  after  receiving  darbepoetin  alfa.  An  examination  of  adverse  events  reported 
during  this  study  revealed  no  reports  of  pure  red  cell  aplasia  and  no  difference  in  the  immunogenic 
potential of darbepoetin alfa HT compared with darbepoetin alfa RB.  
Safety Studies 
Study 20040180 
Non dialysis group 
The prevalence of binding antibodies at baseline for the non-dialysis groups was 8%. After treatment 
with  darbepoetin  alfa  HT,  5%  of  subjects  developed  binding  antibodies.  All  subjects  tested  in  the 
bioassay were negative for neutralizing antibodies. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dialysis group 
The prevalence of binding antibodies at baseline for the haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis groups 
was  5%  and  12%,  respectively.  After  treatment  with  darbepoetin  alfa  HT,  5%  of  subjects  in  the 
haemodialysis group and 3% of subjects in the peritoneal dialysis group developed binding antibodies. 
All subjects tested in the bioassay were negative for neutralizing antibodies. 
Historical trials 
In the current and comparator studies, all samples tested in the bioassay were negative for neutralizing 
antibodies. In addition, an examination of adverse events reported during the current study revealed no 
reports of pure red cell aplasia and no trends indicative of an increase in the immunogenic potential of 
darbepoetin alfa HT compared with darbepoetin alfa RB. 
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  MAH  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The MAH has submitted additional data to show equivalent efficacy for HT 
and RB darbepoetin alfa for the SC route of administration. The results for efficacy  (haemoglobin and 
dose) obtained from the safety study are in line with the results obtained for the efficacy study and, 
together with the comparable PK profiles for SC use, support equivalent efficacy for the SC route of 
administration.  Equivalent  efficacy  for  darbepoetin  alfa  from  the  RB  and  HT  processes  had  already 
been proven for the IV route of administration.  
The  safety  profile  for  darbepoetin  alfa  manufactured  by  the  HT  process  is  no  different  to  that 
manufactured by the previously licensed RB process. The MAH has provided further analyses using 
historical data in order to compare the safety of darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the HT process with 
previously  licensed  RB  process.  Although  there  are  some  differences  in  the  study  design  of  the 
historical  studies,  all  studies  were  maintenance  studies  with  similar  achieved  Hb  levels  and  can 
therefore be considered suitable for comparison of safety. The safety results of the historical trials are 
comparable  to  the  results  obtained  from  the  two  current  studies  (safety  20040180  and  efficacy 
20040104).  No  neutralizing  antibodies  were  found  in  the  efficacy  or  safety  study.  Furthermore,  the 
immunogenicity  data  of  the  two  current  studies  show  a  comparable  number  of  newly  detected  non-
neutralizing antibodies for SC and IV use and for darbepoetin alfa HT compared to darbepoetin alfa 
RB. 
From the safety point of view, all questions raised by the CHMP concerning the pharmacovigilance 
system  and  the  risk  management  plan  are  sufficiently  resolved.  The  MAH  has  provided  a 
pharmacovigilance plan including details for the proactive surveillance in order to detect possible anti-
erythropoietin antibody associated PRCA. 
In addition to the demonstrated analytical, nonclinical and clinical comparability, to further delineate 
the safety profiles related to darbepoetin alfa from the RB and HT processes, the Rapporteur required 
the  applicant  to  commit  to  a  one-time  transition  from  RB-derived  product  to  HT-derived  product 
within a narrow specified timeframe.  In response, the applicant satisfactorily described the transition 
plan. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Summary of All Proposed Pharmacovigilance and Risk Minimization Measures 
Risk Assessment and Minimization Activities 
Routine Risk 
Minimization 
and 
Communication 
Post-
marketing 
Safety 
Surveillance 
Safety 
Monitoring in 
Ongoing and 
Future Clinical 
Studies 
Studies Targeting 
Specific Concerns 
Important Missing (or Limited) Information 
Safety Concern 
Important Identified Risks 
Immunogenicity 
Thromboembolic and 
cardiovascular events 
Tumour progression 
and/or survival 
Important Potential Risks 
Lack or loss of response 
Product quality 
complaints associated 
with adverse events 
Pregnant women 
Lactating women 
Paediatric patients 
Geriatric patients 
Non-white patients 
Patients with hepatic, 
cardiac, or pulmonary 
impairment 
Patients with other 
indications 
Milestone of Risk 
Assessment and 
Minimization Activity 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
Xa 
X 
Xa 
PSUR 
Update of 
prescribing 
information and 
IB 
CSRs; IB; 
periodic reports 
to regulatory 
agencies 
CSRs; IB; DMB 
recommendations; 
periodic reports to 
regulatory agencies
a  
Included in separate RMP for tumour progression and survival in the oncology setting; not 
specific to darbepoetin alfa HT . CSR = clinical study report; DMB = data monitoring board; IB = 
Investigator Brochure; PSUR = Periodic Safety Update Report 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the process change from a roller bottle process to a high throughput (HT) process has been 
adequately documented. From the quality point of view comparability of the drug substance and drug 
product derived from the HT process is confirmed. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical 
Comparable  PK  profiles  for  the  darbepoetin  alfa  HT  drug  substanceand  the  previously  licensed 
darbepoetin alfa RB drug substance have been demonstrated for the SC route of administration. No 
further PK study for IV administration is necessary as the SC route of administration is more sensitive 
to possible changes concerning the darbepoetin alfa HT product’s PK profile. 
Comparable  efficacy  between  darbepoetin  alfa  RB  and  HT  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  current 
efficacy study, the only comparative study submitted for this application. The MAH has demonstrated 
equivalent efficacy also for the 95% confidence interval for the primary endpoint dose ratio which is 
required  for  all  efficacy  endpoints.  Therefore,  equivalent  efficacy  is  considered  to  be  sufficiently 
demonstrated for darbepoetin alfa HT and RB.  
In  the  efficacy  study  patients  mainly  received  darbepoetin  alfa  by  IV  route  of  administration.  The 
MAH  has  submitted  additional  subgroup  analysis  concerning  the  efficacy  study  for  the  SC  and  IV 
application  for  the  primary  endpoints  haemoglobin  level  and  dose.  There  were  no  meaningful 
treatment  differences  in  the  primary  endpoints  either  for  the  IV  or  the  SC  route  of  administration. 
Although the number of patients who received darbepoetin alfa SC is small, these data further support 
the assumption of comparable efficacy of SC use of  darbepoetin alfa HT and RB. 
As  the  current  efficacy  study  included  mainly  patients  receiving  darbepoetin  alfa  by  IV  route  of 
administration, further supportive efficacy data from the current safety study were requested from the 
MAH.  The  additional  efficacy  data  presented  by  the  MAH  further  support  the  assumption  of 
equivalent efficacy for the SC route of administration. 
No new safety concerns arose from the efficacy study and the safety profile of darbepoetin alfa HT is 
comparable to darbepoetin alfa RB. The results from the single arm safety study and from historical 
trials  support  these  findings.  The  MAH  has  presented  the  main  study  characteristics  for  the  five 
historical  safety  studies  which  were  all  maintenance  studies.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  despite  some 
differences  in  the  study  design  and  study  population,  as  all  studies  were  maintenance  studies  with 
comparable achieved Hb levels and only minor changes in mean Hb during these studies, the safety 
data of the historical studies can be used for comparison with the safety results of the current studies. 
Darbepoetin alfa RB is considered to have a low immunogenic potential. The proposed change in the 
manufacturing  process,  however,  may  theoretically  lead  to  a  product  (darbepoetin  alfa  HT)  with 
increased  immunogenicity.  Since  the  SC  route  is  more  immunogenic  than  the  IV  route  of 
administration,  the  MAH  was  requested  to  present  antibody  data  separately  for  SC  and  IV  route  of 
administration. The MAH has submitted the requested additional immunogenicity data. There were no 
neutralizing antibodies detected in the current efficacy or safety study. No significant differences in 
antibody  incidence  have  been  observed  between  the  SC  and  IV  route  of  administration  or  between 
darbepoetin alfa manufactured by the HT and RB processes. The results suggest that darbepoetin alfa 
manufactured by the HT process is no more immunogenic than that manufactured by the current RB 
process.  The  MAH  has  provided  further  details  for  the  proactive  surveillance  in  order  to  detect 
possible anti-erythropoietin antibody associated PRCA. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product in addition 
to the proposed risk management measures described in  table 13. The benefit-risk profile is 
considered to be positive. The CHMP recommends approval of this line extension. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus decision that the risk-benefit balance of Aranesp in the treatment of symptomatic anaemia 
associated  with  chronic  renal  failure  (CRF)  in  adults  and  paediatric  patients  and  in  the  treatment  of 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptomatic anaemia in adult cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies receiving chemotherapy 
was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  extension  to  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
