Product name: ARANESP 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/332/II/28 
SUMMARY OF THE 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel:(44-20) 74 18 84, fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int, http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  the  publication  of  two  clinical  studies  showing  an  increased  mortality  in  cancer  patients 
who  were  administered  epoetin  alfa  (Leyland-Jones  B,  2003)  or  epoetin  beta  (Henke  M  et  al,  2003) 
respectively,  the  Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  (PhVWP)  looked  at  the  risk  of  tumour  growth 
progression  and  thromboembolism  in  patients  with  cancer  treated  with  epoetins.  Further  to  the 
recommendations  of  the  PhVWP  the  CHMP  requested  further  advice  from  the  Scientific  Advisory 
Group  for  Oncology.  As  a  result,  relevant  parts  of  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.4  and  5.1  of  the  SPC  for  the 
different  epoetins  centrally  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  anaemic  cancer  patients  receiving 
chemotherapy were amended as detailed below.  
The target and maximum corrected Hb values and the dose monitoring were revised in section 4.2 as 
follows: 
“Haemoglobin level should not exceed 13 g/dl (8.1 mmol/l) (see section 5.1). 
Once the therapeutic objective for an individual patient has been achieved, the dose should be 
reduced by 25 to 50% in order to maintain haemoglobin at that level. If required, further dose 
reduction may be instituted to ensure that haemoglobin level does not exceed 13 g/dl. 
If the rise in haemoglobin is greater than 2 g/dl (1.3 mmol/l) in 4 weeks, the dose should be 
reduced by 25 to 50%.” 
The following warning on the effect of epoetin on tumour growth was added to section 4.4: 
“Effect on tumour growth 
Epoetins are growth factors that primarily stimulate red blood cell production. Erythropoietin 
receptors may be expressed on the surface of a variety of tumour cells. As with all growth 
factors, there is a concern that epoetins could stimulate the growth of any type of malignancy. 
Two controlled clinical studies in which epoetins were administered to patients with various 
cancers including head and neck cancer, and breast cancer, have shown an unexplained 
excess mortality.” 
The  CHMP  also  requested  that  the  results  from  available  studies  on  survival  and  progression-free 
survival in which epoetins were administered to patients with various cancers are reflected in section 
5.1 as follows: 
“Epoetins    are  growth  factors  that  primarily  stimulate  red  blood  cell  production.  Erythropoietin 
receptors  may  be  expressed  on  the  surface  of  a  variety  of  tumour  cells.  There  is  insufficient 
information to establish whether the use of epoetin products have an adverse effect on time to tumour 
progression or progression free survival. 
Two  studies  explored  the  effect  of  epoetins  on  survival  and/or  tumour  progression  with  higher 
haemoglobin targets. 
In a randomised placebo-controlled study using epoetin alfa in 939 metastatic breast cancer patients, 
study drug was  administered to attempt to  maintain haemoglobin levels between 12 and 14 g/dL. At 
four  months,  death  attributed  to  disease  progression  was  higher  (6 %  vs.  3 %)  in  women  receiving 
epoetin alfa. The overall mortality was significantly higher in the epoetin alfa arm. 
In  another  placebo-controlled  study  using  epoetin  beta  in  351  patients  with  head  and  neck  cancer, 
study drug was administered to maintain the haemoglobin levels of 14 g/dL in women and 15 g/dL in 
men.  Locoregional  progression  free  survival  was  significantly  shorter  in  patients  receiving  epoetin 
beta.  The  results  of  this  study  were  confounded  by  imbalances  between  the  treatment  groups, 
especially  with  regard  to  tumor  localization,  smoking  status  and  the  heterogeneity  of  the  study 
population. 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, several other studies have shown a tendency to improved survival suggesting that epoetin 
has no negative effect on tumour progression.” 
In  addition,  the  CHMP  emphasised  during  the  procedure  that  the  primary  objective  of  the  treatment 
with  epoetins  of  cancer  patients  receiving  chemotherapy  was  to  alleviate  anaemic  symptoms  rather 
than to correct Hb levels as such and recommended to clearly reflect this in the indication as follows: 
“Treatment of symptomatic anaemia in adult cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies 
receiving chemotherapy.” 
In the same variation procedure, “dyspnoea” has been included in section 4.8 of the SPC as an 
allergic manifestation of darbepoetin alfa use further to the assessment of PSUR 4 and 5. 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
