SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Arava.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 01 July 2004.  For information on changes after 01 July 2004 please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Leflunomide  is  the  active  substance  for  the  medicinal  product  Arava.  Leflunomide  is  an  isoxazole 
derivative representing  a  new  class of  antirheumatic compounds.  Leflunomide  is  a pro-drug; in vivo 
the substance is immediately metabolised to an active metabolite ("A771726"), the ring opened form. 
Its  main  metabolite  A771726 
effects.  
The  antiproliferative  effects  are  thought  to  result  from  reversible  inhibition  of  the  enzyme 
dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH), thus preventing the proliferation of activated lymphocytes 
that play a part in the development and progression of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).  
immunosuppressant 
antiproliferative 
and 
has 
Current  available  pharmacological  treatment  for  RA  consists  of  symptomatic  relief  (analgesics, 
NSAID’s,  low-dose  corticosteroids)  and  disease  modifying  therapy  which  is  thought  to  affect  the 
underlying disease. Methotrexate (MTX) and sulfasalazine (SSZ) belong to the most frequently used 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD’s). 
The approved indications are for the treatment of adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis as a 
“disease-modifying antirheumatic drug”(DMARD) and for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis. 
Arava is formulated as an immediate release film-coated tablet for oral administration. It contains the 
active  substance  Leflunomide  in  three-dosage  strengths  10  mg,  20  mg  &  100  mg  per  tablet.  
The  recommended  dosage  is  a  loading  dose  of  100  mg  once  daily  for  3  days.  The  recommended 
maintenance dose is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical and pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition  
Composition: Arava is formulated  as an immediate  release film-coated  tablet for oral administration 
The  tablet  core  of  the  Arava  tablets  contains  leflunomide  (active  substance),  lactose  monohydrate, 
maize starch, povidone K25, talc (100 mg tablets only), colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium stearate 
and crospovidone. The film coating contains methylhydroxypropylcellulose, macrogol 8000, titanium 
dioxide (E 171), yellow ferric oxide (E 172) (this colorant is used only in the 20 mg tablets) and talc.  
Packaging  types:  The  immediate  packaging  is  an  aluminium/aluminium  blister  pack  or  an  HDPE 
bottle  with  polypropylene  screw  cap.  Small  size  HDPE-bottles  for  patients,  use  sodium  aluminium 
silicate in the caps as a desiccant, while large size HDPE bottles are equipped with separate desiccant 
containers in the bottle containing silicagel. 
Active substance 
Leflunomide  is  a  chemical  entity  consisting  of  a  4-trifluoromethylaniline  and  a  5-methyl  isoxazole 
carboxylic  acid  moiety.  The  synthetic  pathway  has  been  adequately  described  covering  suitable 
measures to control the potential impurities. Leflunomide may exist in two crystalline modifications. 
Bioequivalence  between  the  two  polymorphic  forms  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  range  set  by  the 
specifications. The validation of the specifications and the analytical methods are acceptable and the 
specification for impurities is in conformity to the batch analysis as well as the requirements of ICH. 
Other ingredients 
All excipients are of pharmacopoeial quality, well established and suitable for pharmaceutical use.  
1/15 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
Clinical  trial  formula/  Development  Pharmaceutics:  Several  formulations  have  been  developed  and 
used  in  clinical  trials  during  development  of  the  product  which  have  been  demonstrated  to  be 
bioequivalent  in  crossover  studies  in  humans.  This  is  furthermore  supported  by  comparative 
dissolution studies.  
Manufacturing  process:  The  manufacturing  process  for  the  three  strengths  of  film-coated  tablets  is 
almost identical covering a wet granulation procedure as the major step. Equipment and manufacturing 
process  are  described  in  adequate  detail.  Validation  data  on  several  parameters  including  content 
uniformity,  dissolution  rate  and  degradation  of  the  product  are  presented  for  several  batches  of 
finished  product  of  different  sizes.  They  are  comparable  and  favourable  (within  specifications)  and 
indicate that the manufacturing process is well under control. 
Specifications of the medicinal product: The controls of the finished product are comprehensive and 
include:  appearance,  hardness,  disintegration,  dissolution  rate,  microbiological  contamination, 
impurities,  contents  of  the  active  substance,  water  content.  In  view  of  the  toxicity  of  the  impurity  
"4-trifluoromethyl-aniline", the limit for this impurity corresponds to the detection limit of the analysis 
method. The specification for impurities is justified by toxicology data and is in conformity with the 
batch analysis results. 
Stability  of  the  medicinal  product:  Stability  studies  have  been  performed  for  each  dosage  strength 
according  to  the  current  ICH  recommendations  including  photostability  studies.  Additionally,  in-use 
stability studies have been performed with the tablets in HDPE bottles. 
Shelf life: Eighteen months real time data are available. Additional stability data have been provided 
that support 3 year shelf life. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects  
Pharmacodynamics 
Leflunomide  is  effective  in  animal  models  of  autoimmune  disease,  allergy  and  rheumatoid  arthritis 
and of other autoimmune diseases and transplantation, mainly if administered during the sensitisation 
phase. Leflunomide shows only activity during sensitisation to allergens but not in established allergy. 
The  in vivo activity of leflunomide is based  on its  main  metabolite, the active, ring open compound 
A771726  (2-cyano-3-hydroxy-N-(4-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)-croton  amide)  which  is  formed  after 
administration  to  animals  and  man. In  vitro, after  mitogen stimulation, the active  metabolite  A771726 
inhibits  T-cell  proliferation,  DNA  synthesis  and  expression  of  certain  cell  surface  and  nuclear  antigens 
directly  involved  in  T-cell  activation  and  proliferation.  It  inhibits  mitogen-stimulated  proliferation  of 
human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and proliferation in transformed murine and human 
cell lines, in a dose-dependent fashion. Though leflunomide retains certain anti-inflammatory proporties 
it  is  not  a  NSAID  i.e.  it  is  not  an  effective  inhibitor  of  cyclooxygenase  activity.  The  primary 
antiproliferative  activity  of  A771726  is  due  to  its  inhibition  of  dihydroorotate  dehydrogenase 
(DHO-DH) in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. Activated and proliferating lymphocytes, such as are 
found  in  rheumatoid  arthritis,  are  particularly  sensitive  to  inhibition  of  de  novo  pyrimidine 
biosynthesis while purine synthesis is not affected. Tyrosine kinase is inhibited as well but seems not 
to be the major target of A771726. In addition, leflunomide exhibits some anti-inflammatory activity. 
No notable effects of leflunomide regarding general pharmacodynamics are reported. 
Limited drug interaction studies have been performed which do not suggest major interactions. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Peak plasma concentrations are seen after 6 hours in rats and 5-24 hours in man. Food had little effect 
on absorption. The absolute bioavailability after an oral dose of leflunomide is >90% in mice, 86% in 
rats and 76% in dogs. 
Distribution  in  normal  and  pregnant  animals  used  in  reproduction  studies:  Leflunomide  is  strongly 
bound to plasma proteins (98.3% in rats and dogs, 99.1% in monkeys and 98.6-99.4% in man), mainly 
to albumin. In rats, mice and dogs, there is a preferential uptake of radioactivity in erythrocytes, but 
2/15 
 
 
 
this is not the case in monkeys and man. Shortly after iv infusion, leflunomide distributes  widely in 
the  body  and  it  crosses  the  blood-brain  barrier;  this  in  contrast  to  A771726.  After  oral  dosing  of 
leflunomide,  blood  concentrations  were  generally  higher  than  tissue  concentrations.  The  highest 
concentrations  of  A771726  were  seen  in  organs  associated  with  elimination  (liver,  kidney, 
gastrointestinal tract) and lowest in bone, brain, eye and spinal cord. Leflunomide crosses the placenta. 
No  studies  have  been  performed  to  investigate  transfer  into  milk.  Arava  is  contra-indicated  during 
pregnancy and lactation. 
Biotransformation:  The  metabolic  pattern  has  been  studied  extensively  in  rats,  mice,  dogs  and  man. 
Leflunomide  undergoes  rapid  first-pass  metabolism  by  ring-opening  to  A771726  (the  active 
metabolite)  in  the  liver  (major  part)  and  gut  wall  (minor  part),  even  after  i.v.  dosing.  
Further metabolism is roughly comparable between all species. One exception is that dogs are not able 
to  N-acetylate  the  minor  intermediary  metabolite  trifluoromethylaniline  (TFMA).  Exposure  to 
A771726 is much higher in man than in animals. At similar dose levels systemic exposure to A771726 
in mice=dogs=monkeys>rats. 
Excretion:  Leflunomide  was  excreted  both  via  urine  and  via  faeces,  and  this  occurred  quicker  in 
animals  as  compared  to  man.  The  predominant  route  of  excretion  after  an  oral  dose  of  leflunomide 
was  urine  in  rats  and  dogs,  faeces  in  mice,  and  in  man  equal  amounts  were  excreted  in  urine  and 
faeces.  The  principal  urinary  metabolite  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  was  TFMA-oxanilic  acid,  which  in 
man was seen together with glucuronidated hydroxymethyl A771726. In faeces mainly A771726 was 
detected in rats, dogs and man (but not in mice). Enterohepatic circulation was small in rats. After oral 
dosing of leflunomide, the terminal half-life of A771726 in rat was 9 h, and in dogs 20-25 hours. 
Pharmacokinetics after a single dose/repeated administration: TFMA levels are higher in dogs than in 
rats or monkeys. In monkeys, extremely variable results were found in two studies with the same dose 
levels.  There  was  neither  evidence  for  sex-related  differences  in  kinetics  nor  evidence  for 
accumulation from repeated dose toxicity studies, except in a one-year study in dogs. 
Toxicology 
Dose  extrapolation:  In  all  toxicity  studies  no  safety  margin  could  be  calculated  based  on  systemic 
exposure to the active metabolite A771726. The lowest NOEL for leflunomide (0.25 mg/kg in the 12-
month dog study) yielded an AUC value for A771726 of 8-16 µg.h/ml compared to an estimated AUC 
in humans of 1000 µg.h/ml at steady state at the expected therapeutic dose of 20 mg/day. 
Single dose toxicity: Single dose toxicity (p.o. and i.p.) of leflunomide and A771726 was in the same 
range  and  similar  in  mice  and  rats.  In  addition  to  general  clinical  signs  oedema  of  the  iris  was 
observed.  Acute  toxicity  of  TFMA  (mouse  p.o.)  resulted  in  cyanosis,  decreased  breathing  depth, 
irregular respiration and coma. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity:  Repeated  dose  toxicity  of  leflunomide  after  oral  administration  has  been 
extensively  studied  in  mice  (up  to  3  months),  rats  (up  to  6  months),  dogs  (up  to  12  months)  and 
monkeys (limited studies up to 1 month). In addition, 1-month studies with leflunomide and A771726 
have been conducted after intravenous administration in rats and dogs. Major target organs were bone 
marrow, blood, gastrointestinal tract, skin, spleen, thymus and lymph nodes. The main effects can be 
summarised as anaemia, leukopenia,  decreased platelets count and panmyelopathy. They, directly or 
secondarily,  reflect  the  basic  mechanism  of  action  (impairment  of  DNA  synthesis  by  inhibition  of 
dihydroorotate  dehydrogenase).  The  tissues  of  greatest  susceptibility  were  those  containing  rapidly 
dividing cells. Other toxicity seen in the heart, liver, cornea, and respiratory system can be correlated 
with  the  immunosuppressive  effects  of  leflunomide  facilitating  bacterial  and  viral  infections.  
Lens  opacities  seen  in  the  life-time  study  in  rats  are  considered  to  be  caused  by  pharmacodynamic 
effects of leflunomide on the lens epithelium. In an oral 41-day study in rats, leflunomide did not show 
a cocataractogenic potential. 
Reproduction  studies:  A  full  battery  of  segment  I,  II  and  III  studies  has  been  conducted  in  rats.  
In addition, teratogenicity was studied in rabbits and in vitro in limb bud mesenchymal rat cells. In rats 
leflunomide  did  not  reduce  fertility  and  was  embryotoxic  above  0.4  mg/kg.  In  both  rats  and  rabbits 
leflunomide  was  teratogenic  above  oral  doses  of  1  mg/kg.  This  was  confirmed  in  a  peri-postnatal 
study where leflunomide was teratogenic in a dose-related manner (borderline toxicity to progeny at 
3/15 
 
 
0.4  mg/kg  increasing  to  marked  toxicity  at  4  mg/kg,  which  was  also  materno-toxic).  Finally,  both 
leflunomide and A771726 were teratogenic in vitro in limb bud mesenchymal rat cells.  
Mutagenic potential: Full batteries of genotoxicity tests have been performed with leflunomide and its 
minor  metabolite,  4-trifluoromethylaniline  (TFMA).  Leflunomide  showed  no  genotoxic  potential. 
TFMA,  was  genotoxic  in  in  vitro  tests  and  induced  chromosome  aberrations  and  gene  mutations  in 
bacteria  and  mammalian  cells.  A  number  of  in  vivo  chromosome  aberration  tests  with  TFMA  were 
negative.  No  data  were  available  to  assess  the  possible  induction  of  gene  mutations  in  vivo.   
It was noted that no validated in vivo gene-mutation tests exist. Because of these results it could not be 
excluded that TFMA is genotoxic in vivo. 
carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  potential:  Two 
(rat,  mouse).  
The rat carcinogenicity study did not provide evidence for carcinogenicity under the conditions of the 
experiment. In the  mouse carcinogenicity study, the increased incidence of malignant lymphomas in 
male  mice  could  be  due  to  the  pharmacodynamic  action  of  the  compound,  i.e.  immunosuppression. 
The toxicological significance of the increased incidence of lung tumours in female mice could not be 
completely assessed because of the lack of historical controls. 
studies  were 
conducted 
Local  tolerance:  Local  tolerance  studies  in  New  Zealand  rabbits  indicated  a  good  tolerability  of 
leflunomide following intraarterial, intravenous and paravenous injection. 
Special  toxicity  studies:  An  active  systemic  anaphylaxis  test  and  a  homologous  passive  cutaneous 
anaphylaxis  (PCA)  test  in  guinea  pigs  suggested  that  there  is  little  possibility  that  leflunomide  and 
A771726 may show antigenicity in clinical use. No evidence for sensitising properties of leflunomide 
and A771726 were found in guinea pigs. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk assessment: From an extensive environmental risk assessment it can 
be concluded that the use of leflunomide is likely to be of low environmental risk. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
4.A Clinical aspects at the time of initial marketing authorisation 
The  indication  for  Arava  as  initially  granted  was  as  follows:  Arava  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of 
adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis as a “disease modifying antirheumatic drug”(DMARD). 
Leflunomide  therapy  is  started  with  a  loading  dose  of  100  mg  once  daily  for  3  days.  The 
recommended maintenance dose is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily (reference is made in section 5.1 of the 
SPC). 
Clinical pharmacology 
No specific human pharmacodynamic studies were performed. Data were derived from both in vitro 
and  animal  models.  The  clinical  pharmacology  profile  of  leflunomide  has  been  investigated  in  
17 Phase I studies and in RA patients in two studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of leflunomide and its metabolites were investigated in 17 studies with healthy 
volunteers.  In  12  clinical  studies,  plasma  trough  levels  of  leflunomide  or  A771726  were  assessed. 
These were used as basis for two population pharmacokinetic studies.  
Several analytical  methods were  used  during  the  development  program of leflunomide.  All  methods 
used were adequately described and validated.  
Based  on  excretion  data  (14C  leflunomide  study)  the  absorption  is  high  (82-95%  of  the  dose). 
Leflunomide  can  be  administered  with  food,  since  the  extent  of  absorption  is  comparable  in  the  fed 
and fasting state. In vitro protein binding studies showed that A771726 was strongly bound to human 
plasma albumin. Leflunomide is metabolised to one primary (A771726) and many minor metabolites 
including TFMA (4-trifluoromethylaniline). Elimination of A771726 is slow and characterised by an 
apparent  clearance  of  about  31  ml/hr.  The  mean  elimination  half-life  in  patients  is  approximately  
2 weeks. 
4/15 
 
 
 
• 
Clinical studies in specific population 
Patients  with  impaired  renal  function:  Pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  were 
evaluated in 6 patients undergoing either continuous ambulant peritoneal dialysis (CAPD, 3 patients) 
or haemodialysis (3 patients) for severe kidney insufficiency (Clcr <5 ml/min). Each patient received a 
single  oral  dose  of  100  mg  leflunomide.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  A771726  in  CAPD  patients  was 
similar  to  those  in  healthy  subjects.  A771726  was  eliminated  more  rapidly  in  the  haemodialysis 
patients, which was not due to extraction of drug in the dialysate. 
Patients  with  impaired  liver  function:  Studies  in  liver  impairment  have  not  been  done,  since  liver 
function does not determine leflunomide elimination. However, because of the scarcity of data in this 
group, all degrees of liver impairment should be contraindicated (see section 4.3 of the SPC). 
Elderly: No dose-adjustment is required for elderly patients. In a population pharmacokinetic study no 
influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of A771726 was found.  
Children: Leflunomide is not recommended for use in children and adolescents under 18 years. 
• 
Interaction Studies 
The involvement of cytochrome P450 (CYP) in the metabolism of leflunomide and/or A77 1726 could 
not  be  established  from  in  vitro  studies.  Therefore  two  pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies`  were 
performed  with  cimetidine  (non-specific  CYP  inhibitor)  and  rifampin  (non-specific  CYP  inducer). 
Results  from  the  studies  conclude  that  there  are  no  indications  that  the  plasma  concentrations  of 
A771726 at steady state will be influenced by CYP inhibition or induction.  
In  vitro  studies  indicate  that  A771726  inhibits  cytochrome  P4502C9  (CYP2C9)  activity.  In  clinical 
trials no safety problems were observed when NSAIDs metabolised by CYP2C9 and leflunomide were 
co-administered.  Caution  is  advised  when  leflunomide  is  given  together  with  drugs,  other  than 
NSAIDs, metabolised by CYP2C9 like phenytoin, warfarin and tolbutamide. 
The  influence  on  an  oestrogen-containing  oral  contraceptive  agent  was  studied  in  33  healthy  pre-
menopausal  women.  None  of  the  subjects  ovulated  when  the  oral  contraceptive  was  given  in 
combination  with  leflunomide.  This  lack  of  interaction  is  important  because  women  of  childbearing 
potential who receive leflunomide must use effective contraception. 
The  population  kinetic  analysis  of  rheumatoid  arthritis  patients  examined  the  effect  of  about  
40  concomitant  medications on the pharmacokinetics of A771726. Each  co-medication was  taken at 
least by about 30 patients. No statistically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of A771726 was 
found  for  any  of  the  compounds  tested  (including  cimetidine,  diclofenac  and  ibuprofen). 
Cholestyramine and active charcoal interfered with the excretion of A771726, possibly by preventing 
reabsorption following excretion in bile. 
• 
Bioequivalence studies 
Different formulations have been used for the clinical studies and bioequivalence was demonstrated.  
There are two morphic forms, crystalline modifications I and II. Both forms have identical solubility 
and dissolution profiles. Production batches of leflunomide contain up to 10 % modification II and this 
proportion  can  increase  to  about  30%  after  storage  for  one  year  at  room  temperature.  A  study  in 
healthy volunteers indicates no differences in bioavailability that can be attributed to polymorphism. 
Clinical efficacy 
Eleven clinical studies (B1-B11) were performed in total with 1339 patients on leflunomide, and two 
extension studies (MN304, MN305). The clinical studies were conducted in accordance with clinical 
trial requirements at the time and conformed to the essential principles of Good Clinical Practice. 
5/15 
 
 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
• 
Dose response studies 
Based on efficacy/safety data from phase I/II studies a dose of 20 mg/day was chosen for the Phase III 
trials. The choice of the daily maintenance dose of 20 mg was further supported by population kinetic 
analysis  on  398  subjects  included  in  study  B3.  The  clinical  effect  (Paulus  responder  rate)  of 
leflunomide  was  related  closely  both  to  the  total  plasma  concentration  of  A771726  and  to  the  daily 
dose  of  leflunomide.  The  highest  dose,  25  mg,  did  not  increase  the  probability  of  clinical  success 
much  beyond  that  for  10  mg.  For  a  maximum  probability  of  clinical  success  in  99%  of  patients  a 
median plasma concentration of 30 µg/ml A771726 is necessary. A median plasma concentration of 
30 µg/ml can be achieved with a daily dose of 16 mg. The 20 mg dose was chosen for the Phase III 
studies. Population kinetic evaluations showed that a loading dose of 100 mg leflunomide for 3 days is 
necessary to rapidly obtain a median plasma concentration of 30 µg/ml.  
•  Main studies  
Description of the studies 
The following double blind, randomised controlled phase III trials have been performed as indicated in 
the following table: 
Name 
B8 
(MN301) 
B9 
(MN303) 
B10 
(MN302) 
B11 
(US301) 
Design 
r,db,pg 
db,r,pg 
extension 
of study B8 
r,db,pg 
r,db,pg 
Treatment 
LEF 20 mg/day 
PLA 
SSZ 2g/day 
LEF 20 mg/day 
SSZ 2g/day 
PLA/SSZ 
LEF 20 mg/day 
MTX 10-15 mg/week 
LEF 20 mg/day 
PLA 
MTX 7.5-15 mg/week 
n 
133 
92 
133 
80 
76 
41 
501 
498 
182 
118 
182 
Duration 
24 weeks 
24 weeks 
52 weeks 
52 weeks 
r: randomised, db: double-blind, pg: parallel group, n: number of randomised patients 
LEF: leflunomide, PLA: placebo, SSZ: sulfasalazine, MTX: methotrexate 
Inclusion criteria: Patients in the studies had to have a diagnosis of RA according to the ARA or ACR 
criteria  (ARA:  American  Rheumatology  Association,  ACR:  American  College  of  Rheumatology). 
Baseline severity of the disease of patients treated with leflunomide (LEF) in the phase III studies was 
ACR class I 8% class II 61% and class III 31%. Approximately one-third of the patients had suffered 
from RA for ≤2 years. About 2/3 of the patients had ever used disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARD’s). 
Efficacy parameters 
Efficacy parameters of leflunomide in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis were: tender and swollen 
joint counts and patient’s and physician’s global assessment of rheumatoid disease activity as well as 
the composite ACR20 Responder Index. (An “ACR20 Responder” is a patient who had at least 20% 
improvement in both tender and swollen joint counts and in 3 of the following 5 criteria: physician’s 
global  assessment  of  rheumatoid  disease  activity,  patient’s  global  assessment  of  rheumatoid  disease 
activity,  the  Health  Assessment  Questionnaire  as  a  measure  of  function/disability,  visual  analogue 
pain scale, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein.) Retardation of structural damage 
compared to control was assessed using the Larsen score or the Sharp score, composite X-ray scores 
including evaluation of erosions in hands/wrists and forefeet. 
In  studies  B8,  B10  and  B11  patients  on  leflunomide  (20  mg/day)  received  a  loading  dose  of  
100 mg/day for 3 days.  
All these studies were multi-centre studies, in which the double-dummy technique was used to blind 
study medication. Before randomisation there was a treatment free period. Concomitant NSAIDs and 
6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
low doses of corticosteroids were allowed, DMARDs were prohibited. leflunomide dose decreases to 
10 mg were allowed if there were tolerability problems. 
Extension studies 
Description of the studies 
Two  double  blind, randomised, comparator-controlled  extension studies  have been completed: study 
MN305  as  an  extension  of  B9  and  study  MN304  as  an  extension  of  B10.  Study  MN305  was  a 
randomised double-blind extension of the 1-year study B8/B9. In this study 146 (87%) patients who 
completed study B9 entered the study. Patients had the same treatment as in the previous study (B9). 
Study  MN304  was  a  randomised  double-blind  extension  of  the  1  year  study  B10.  612  (83%)  of  the 
patients who completed study B10 entered this study, receiving the same treatment as in study B10. 
Only  patients  who  completed  the  1-year  period  and  were  enrolled  in  (one  of)  the  extension  studies 
were considered for the analysis of data beyond 1 year, i.e. in the analyses of the 2-year period and the 
extension  studies.  The  cohorts  for  the  2-year  period  and  the  extensions  are  the  same.  These  cohorts 
are,  however,  smaller  than  those  used  in  the  analysis  of  the  1-year  data  because  they  exclude  both 
patients  who  were  withdrawn  during  the  first  year  of  treatment  and  patients  who  did  not  wish  to 
continue treatment in the extension studies.  
The  table  below  shows  the  mean  duration  of  treatment  with  leflunomide,  methotrexate  and 
sulfasalazine in the two extension studies: 
Treatment duration in extension studies MN304 and MN305 
Study/ 
No.  
Treatment duration (days) 
patients 
Mean  
SD 
Min. 
Max. 
treatment 
MN304 
LEF 
MTX 
MN305 
LEF 
SSZ 
292 
320 
524 
531 
209 
216 
228 
239 
1 
4 
50 
80 
952 
960 
989 
978 
630 
553 
LEF: leflunomide, SSZ: sulfasalazine, MTX: methotrexate 
60 
60 
Both  extension  studies  had  an  average  duration  of  about  1.5  years.  The  total  maximum  treatment 
duration  of  leflunomide  patients  in  the  double-blind,  controlled  phase  III  studies  was  3.7  years  
(1 year  of  treatment  in  Study  B8/B9  plus  989  days  in  Study  MN305).  The  fact  that  exposure  in  the 
extension  studies  was  approximately  1.5  years  and  thus  longer  than  in  the  1-year  studies  should  be 
considered  when  comparing  frequencies  of  adverse  events  (AEs)  between  the  first  year  and  the 
extension period. 
Efficacy parameters of the extension studies 
In both extension studies the total X-ray score was the primary efficacy parameter. Other parameters 
were similar to those in the earlier periods of both these studies. 
RESULTS 
Study population 
In the pivotal studies the proportions of patients older than 65 years varied from about 10% to 30%. 
About 75% were female. Baseline age and sex distribution of the patients were not particular different 
from the overall RA population. Concomitant NSAIDs were used in about 80% and corticosteroids in 
about  50%  of  the  patients.  Mean  duration  of  therapy  with  leflunomide  was  361  days,  838  (63.3%) 
patients were treated for more than 336 days. 
Efficacy results 
The efficacy of leflunomide was assessed in comparison with placebo (PLA) and in comparison with 
methotrexate and sulfasalazine. 
7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In studies B8 and B11 leflunomide was significantly better than placebo for all efficacy parameters, 
e.g. Tender joint count decreased with 3-4 on placebo vs 8-10 on leflunomide. In study B8 the Larsen 
X-ray  score  was  increased  (i.c.  deterioration)  on  placebo  with  0.05  (sd:  0.09)  vs  0.01  (sd:  0.03)  on 
leflunomide. In study B11 the Sharp score increased (i.c. deterioration) on placebo with 2.16 (sd: 3.95) 
vs 0.53 (sd: 4.5) on leflunomide. 
Efficacy of leflunomide was comparable with that of sulfasalazine in studies B8 and it’s extension B9. 
In study B11 efficacy results were slightly, not significantly, better for leflunomide (decrease in tender 
joint count 7.7 versus 6.6, for leflunomide and methotrexate, respectively). In both studies changes in 
X-ray  scores  were  not  significantly  different  between  both  treatments.  The  lower  efficacy  of 
methotrexate in study B11 as compared to study B10, might be explained by concomitant folate intake 
in study B11. If so, leflunomide is about as efficacious as methotrexate when given with concomitant 
folate, and less effective than methotrexate when given without concomitant folate. 
Results of the extension studies 
Results  of  study  MN305:  During  the  whole  study  period,  11  (18%)  patients  on  leflunomide  and  
14  (23%)  on  sulfasalazine  withdrew.  The  effects  achieved  on  efficacy  variables  in  the  first  year  of 
treatment  were  well  maintained  on  further  treatment  in  the  second  year.  Similar  findings  were 
obtained for all other efficacy variables. 
Results  of  study  MN304:  On  leflunomide  59  (20%)  of  patients  withdrew  and  on  methotrexate  
56 (17%) during the entire 2-year period. In both joint counts and global assessments the effects of the 
first  year  were  maintained  in  the  second  year  of  study.  Similar  findings  were  obtained  for  all  other 
efficacy results. Improvements between baseline in study B10 and endpoint for the swollen joint count 
and the investigators global assessment were significantly better on methotrexate than on leflunomide. 
Also the total X-ray score was significantly better on methotrexate than on leflunomide. 
Subgroup analysis 
Subgroup  analyses  from  the  data  of  the  phase  III  studies  (B8–B11)  for  efficacy  parameters  joint 
counts, global scores, and X-ray scores were performed. The following subgroups were investigated: 
for  efficacy  (and  safety):  sex,  age  (<65 years,  ≥65  years),  duration  of  RA  (≤2 years,  >2  years), 
previous DMARD medication, and concomitant corticosteroids. (For safety see under clinical safety-
subgroup analysis of this report). 
Efficacy  results  did  not  consistently  differ  between  men  and  women.  Globally  it  appeared  that 
leflunomide  was  slightly  more  effective  in  patients  with  RA  <  2  years  than  in  patients  with  RA  
≥  2  years  (n=740),  and  in  patients  without  previous  DMARD  use  than  in  patients  with  previous 
DMARD use (n = 758). However, similar (small) differences between those subgroups seemed to be 
present with the active comparators.  
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure: 
In the clinical studies in total 1339 RA patients were treated with different doses of leflunomide. In the 
studies  laboratory  variables  (haematology,  liver  function,  renal  function,  electrolytes,  and  other 
biochemistry variables) were measured at regular intervals. In total 1117 (83%) patients treated with 
leflunomide reported AE’s, most frequently of the digestive system (44% of patients), body as a whole 
(38%), skin and appendages (33%), and respiratory system (31%). 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths: 
Studies B1-B11:  
Serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported in 294 (22%) of the patients on leflunomide in studies 
B1-B11.  The  frequency  increased  with  the  dose  of  leflunomide.  In  the  controlled  phase  III  studies 
serious events on leflunomide were higher than on placebo (14.0% vs 11.5%), sulfasalazine (26.3 vs 
16.5%),  or  methotrexate  (25.9  vs  21.9%).  Frequencies  of  possibly  related  AE’s  were  lower  than  on 
placebo  (2.9%  vs  3.3%),  sulfasalazine  (5.3%  vs  8.3  %),  or  methotrexate  (5.6  %  vs  6.3  %)  although 
SAE’s of leflunomide might often not be recognised as such. 
8/15 
 
 
The  most  frequent SAEs  under  leflunomide was “rheumatoid  arthritis” in  45  patients (3.2%),  which 
was more frequent in all comparator groups. Chest pain occurred in 7 patients (0.5%), and myocardial 
infarct  in  5  (0.4%)  on  leflunomide,  being  comparable  to  the  other  groups.  Diverse  digestive  system 
SAE’s (4.3%), were as frequent on leflunomide as on sulfasalazine (3%), but higher than on placebo 
(2.9%  vs  1%  on  placebo)  or  methotrexate  (5.1%  vs  2.8%  on  methotrexate).  Joint  disorders  were 
mentioned  in  2.1%  of  the  leflunomide  treated  patients  as  SAE,  about  comparable  with  the  other 
groups, pneumonia occurred in 11 patients (0.8%), higher than on placebo (1.6% vs 0% on placebo), 
but lower than on MTX (1.2% vs 1.5% on methotrexate). Cataract occurred in 5 patients (0.4%), being 
higher than in placebo or sulfasalazine (both 0%), and methotrexate (0.7% vs 0.3% on methotrexate). 
Tenosynovitis  occurred  in  37  leflunomide  treated  patients  (2.7%),  being  more  frequent  than  in  the 
comparator groups. Nine patients (0.7%) treated with leflunomide had a tendon rupture, being higher 
than on PLA (1.3% vs 0.5%) and SSZ (2.3% vs 0%) but comparable to methotrexate (0.6%). 
In total 16 patients (1.2%) on LEF died, 2 patients on placebo (1.0%), 1 patient on SSZ (0.8%) and  
8  patients  on  methotrexate  (1.2%).  Causes  of  death  on  leflunomide  were  a.o.  sudden  death  (4x), 
myocardial infarction 2x, ventricular arrhythmia 1x. Causes of death on methotrexate were a.o. sudden 
death 2x, infarction 2x. 
The most frequent event leading to withdrawal on leflunomide was abnormal LFT’s (23x), followed 
by diarrhoea (19x), rash (15x), nausea (12x), and alopecia (9x). 
Adverse events reported in the extension studies 
Results of  study MN305: Adverse events were  reported  in  88%  of leflunomide patients and 97%  of 
SSZ patients.  
Serious events were comparable in both groups. In this extension period overall safety profiles seemed 
to be similar between both treatments. 
Results of study MN304: Adverse events in this study were reported in 90% on leflunomide and 95% 
on  MTX.  No  unexpected  adverse  events  occurred  in  patients  on  leflunomide  who  were  treated  for 
more than 1 year. Upper respiratory infection, RA, joint disorder, bronchitis, back pain, and accidental 
injury  showed  higher  frequencies  in  study  304  than  in  the  earlier  period,  in  both  leflunomide  and 
MTX.  Alopecia,  nausea,  and  abnormal  liver  function  tests  were  less  common  in  this  study  as 
compared  to  the  earlier  period  in  both  treatment  arms.  Overall  safety  data  in  this  extension  study 
seemed to be comparable between both treatments. 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup  safety  analyses  from  all  the  studies  were  provided.  The  following  subgroups  were 
investigated:  for  (efficacy  and)  safety:  sex,  age  (<65 years,  ≥65  years),  duration  of  RA  (≤2 years,  
>2 years), previous DMARD medication, and concomitant corticosteroids. For safety also subgroups 
with  impaired  liver  function  (ICD9CM  codes  570-2,  or  SGOT,  SGPT  or  AP  baseline  >  2x  ULN), 
impaired  kidney  function  (ICD9CM  codes  580-9,  91  or  creatinine  clearance  <  50  ml/min), 
hypertension, ischaemic heart disease and diabetes mellitus were analysed.  
Safety  results  indicated  that  alopecia  was  much  more  frequent  in  women  than  in  men  (12%  versus 
4%), which is probably due to baseline differences. Leukopenia was present in men in 1.5%, versus 
3%  in  women.  Liver  function  tests  changed  more  frequently  from  normal  to  abnormal  in  women 
(SGOT: men 12%, women 17%; SGPT: men 12%, women 21%, γGT: men 6%, women 8%; AP: men 
8%  women:  14%).  Adverse  events  were  more  frequent  and  serious  in  patients  of  older  age  (in  the 
controlled  studies  withdrawals  for  AE’s  <  65  years:  14%,  ≥  65  years:  22%).  Abnormal  LFTs  were 
present  in  4.2%  in  patients  aged  <  65  years  and  in  6.4%  in  patients  aged  ≥  65  years.  However,  a 
similar  profile  with  regard  to  sex  and  age  was  seen  for  MTX  and  SSZ,  but  not  for  PLA.  
Also concomitant steroids use resulted in more AE’s, in all treatment groups, including placebo.  
In total 16 patients  with impaired liver function were treated with leflunomide (12 of these patients 
were <65 years old and 11 of these patients were treated for at least 336 days).  
The  AE’s  in  this  group  did  not  clearly  differ  from  the  normal  liver  function  population,  except  for 
abnormal SGPT values during treatment (38% versus 19%). The 38% of patients with impaired liver 
9/15 
 
 
function represent 6 patients. These differences in SGPT between patients with impaired liver function 
and patients with normal liver function might have been present already at baseline. 
Also  27  patients  with  impaired  kidney  function  (mean  duration  464  days),  were  treated  with 
leflunomide. In this patient group no differences in AE’s as compared to patients with normal kidney 
function could be detected. Also in the other subgroups no particular results were found with regard to 
safety, although these groups were often small. 
4.B Clinical aspects from the post-authorisation phase 
Extension of the indication- Psoriatic arthritis 
The  MAH  applied  for  extension  of  the  indication  to  include  treatment  of  patients  with  psoriatic 
arthritis based on Study 3L01 TOPAS in 188 patients with psoriatic arthritis. Treatment duration was 
6 months. 
Study design and objectives 
Study  3L01  was  a  multinational,  randomised,  double-blind  study  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
active  PsA.  The  clinical  trial  started  with  a  screening  phase  of  a  maximum  duration  of  4  weeks, 
followed  by a  24-week  treatment  period  during  which  subjects  with  active  PsA  were  randomised  to 
receive  either  leflunomide,  100  mg/day  for  3  days,  followed  by  20  mg/day  over  the  remaining 
treatment period, or matching placebo. At the time the study was designed (1999-2000) the dose of 20 
mg/day was chosen based on the results of phase II and III studies in experience gained in more than 
800 patients with active RA treated with leflunomide 20 mg/day. 
Main  inclusion  criteria  were:  1)  at  least  one  of  the  subsets  of  PsA:  distal  interphalangeal  (DIP) 
involvement,  polyarticular,  arthritis  mutilans,  asymmetric  oligoarticular  arthritis,  or  ankylosing 
spondylitis like, 2) joint activity had to be ≥ 3 swollen joints and ≥ 3 tender joints, 3) skin and/or nail 
changes  diagnosed  as  psoriasis,  4)  at  least  3%  total  body  surface  area  (TBSA)  involvement  with 
plaque psoriasis, 5) target lesion of psoriasis plaque.  
The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate that the efficacy of leflunomide is superior to 
that of placebo in subjects with PsA by means of the Psoriatic Arthritis Treatment Response Criteria 
(PsARC) at 24 weeks. Treatment response was defined as improvement in at least 2 of the 4 criteria, 
one of which had to be joint pain/tenderness score or joint swelling score and no worsening in any of 
the other 4 measures. 
The  secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  leflunomide,  compared  to  placebo,  in  the 
treatment  of  PsA  in  a  6-month  trial  on  the  basis  of  the  following  secondary  efficacy  variables: 
Psoriasis  Area  and  Severity  Index  (PASI),  Target  Lesion  Response,  American  College  of 
Rheumatology preliminary definition of improvement in RA (ACR20) as modified for PsA.  
Additional outcome measures were the Spondylitis articular index, CRP and Dactylitis score, quality 
of  life  objectives  (Mean  Health  Assessment  Questionnaire  (HAQ)  score,  MOS  36-Item  Short-Form 
Health Survey, SF-36, and Dermatology Life Quality Index, DLQI). 
10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Results 
Leflunomide 20mg/day was significantly superior to placebo in reducing the symptoms of arthritis in 
patients  with  psoriatic  arthritis:  the  PsARC  (Psoriatic  Arthritis  treatment  Response  Criteria) 
responders  were  59%  in  the  leflunomide  group  and  29.7%  in  the  placebo  group  by  6  months  (p  < 
0.0001).  
The results obtained for the individual PsARC components is shown in the following table: 
In  the  leflunomide  study  data  provided,  there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  the 
proportions of patients receiving corticosteroids, NSAIDs, or topical agents.  
A  statistically  significantly  higher  percentage  of  subjects  (36%)  in  the  leflunomide  group  were 
categorised  as  treatment  responders  based  on  ACR20  modified  for  PsA  compared  with  placebo 
(20.0%).  
The difference between the leflunomide and placebo  group concerning the change from baseline for 
the  mean  HAQ  score  was  0.14  and  was  considered  not  to  be  clinically  relevant.  Nevertheless,  the 
change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  HAQ  score  of  0.19  was  considered  clinically  relevant  in  PsA. 
Statistically  significant  differences  in  PASI  and  target  lesions  were  found  between  leflunomide  and 
placebo,  however,  only  a  small  minority  of  these  patients  treated  with  leflunomide  showed  50% 
improvement (30% of the patients) and 75% improvement (17% of the patients). As recommended by 
the  CPMP,  the  SPC  reflects  that  the  effect  on  improvement  of  function  and  the  skin  lesions  was 
modest. 
11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This study demonstrated a safety profile of leflunomide that is in correspondence with that known for 
leflunomide  in  patients  with  rheumatoid  arthritis.  Long-term  data  from  patients  with  PsA  are  not 
available but there is no reason to assume that the safety profile of leflunomide in patients with PsA 
differs from patients with RA. 
As was requested by the CPMP, in future PSURs the MAH  will provide follow-up on liver toxicity 
occurring in patients treated with Arava for psoriatic arthritis. 
Overall,  the  benefit/  risks  ratio  for  leflunomide  in  patients  with  PsA  supports  the  granting  of  the 
indication in PsA.  
In  comparison  with  the  recently  reviewed  etanercept  study,  the  patients  in  the  present  leflunomide 
study  had  some  milder  disease  activity  (and  therefore,  less  scope  to  improve),  and  the  use  of  co-
medication differed between the 2 studies. Both agents have their own safety profile. 
Post-authorisation safety data 
The safety profile of leflunomide has been regularly reviewed through periodic safety update reports. 
To  date  11  PSURs  have  been  completed  covering  safety  data  up  to  11  March  2004.    Since  launch 
safety  concerns  covered  by  the  PSURs  and  for  which  the  SPC  has  been  updated  were:  severe  skin 
reactions  (TEN,  erythema  multiforme,  SJS),  pancytopenia,  warfarin  drug-drug  interaction,  hepatic 
events,  sepsis/opportunistic  infections,  pancreatitis,  arterial  hypertension,  pregnancy  (teratogenic 
potential),  peripheral  neuropathy,  vasculitis,  interstitial  pneumonitis  and  information  regarding 
overdose reports and its management. Other safety concerns, which did not necessitate an SPC update, 
were:  pyrexia,  gastrointestinal  bleeding,  colitis/enterocolitis,  rhabdomyolysis,  pulmonary  embolism, 
and cardiomyopathy.  
Pancytopenia/ serious skin reactions and hepatotoxicity led to urgent safety restrictions on 21 October 
1999 and 28 February 2001: 
In October  1999,  having reviewed  the  new  safety information  of  16 potential  cases  of  pancytopenia 
and 9 cases of serious skin reactions, the CPMP concluded that leflunomide may be associated with 
occurence  of  haematological  toxicity,  even  if  this  signal  was  confounded  by  co-medication  and 
underlying  conditions.  In  particular,  most  patients  were  concomitantly  treated  with  other  DMARDs, 
especially methotrexate. These reactions were likely to be rare.  
The signal of serious skin reactions was weaker. All cases were confounded.  
Amendments  to  the  SPC  were  introduced  with  respect  to  the  inclusion  of  severe  skin  and 
haematologic  reactions  in  the  section  ‘Undesirable  Effects`  and  `Contraindications`;  changes  of  the 
`Precautions`section  with  a  strengthening  of  blood  count  monitoring,  washout  procedures  to  be 
performed in case of occurrence of serious hematological or cutaneous reactions, and addition of the 
information  that  because  of  potentially  additive  or  synergistic  toxicity,  combination  of  leflunomide 
with  another  DMARD  (e.g.  methotrexate)  is  not  advisable  ;  and  additional  strengthening  under  the 
section  ‘Indications’,  stating  that  recent  treatment  with  hepatotoxic  or  haematotoxic  DMARDs  may 
result  in  increased  side-effects  and  that  switching  from  leflunomide  to  another  DMARD  without  a 
washout period may raise the possibility of added risks of side effects even for a long time after the 
switching.  
Further  to  the  CPMP  assessment  of  the  fourth  PSUR  and  cumulative  review  at  the  request  of  the 
CPMP of serious liver injuries associated with leflunomide administration, on 28 February 2001 the 
Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  urgently  updated  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and 
Package Leaflet through an Urgent Safety Restriction (USR) because of the occurrence of serious liver 
injuries including fatal cases associated with leflunomide administration.  
The review performed during the subsequent type II variation revealed that by 5 January 2001 a total 
of  296  case  reports  with  any  hepatic  reactions  had  been  received  by  the  MAH  in  the  context  of 
extensive patient exposure (an estimated 104,000 patient years). Of these, 129 cases were considered 
as  serious,  including  2  cases  of  liver  cirrhosis  and  15  cases  of  liver  failure,  9  with  fatal  outcome. 
Hepatic  reactions  appeared  within  6  months  of  initiation  of  treatment.  Confounding  factors  were 
present in many of these cases. Of the serious reports, 101 patients (78 %) were concomitantly treated 
with  hepatotoxic  medications.  In  patients  with  elevated  liver  function  tests,  58 %  were  also  being 
treated with methotrexate and/or NSAIDs. In addition, in 33 of these serious cases (27 %) other risk 
12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
factors were reported including history of alcohol abuse, liver function disturbance, acute heart failure, 
severe  pulmonary  disease  or  pancreatic  carcinoma.  Preliminary  data  on  the  prescribing  profile  of 
leflunomide suggested that monitoring of liver function tests and wash-out procedures might not have 
been fully adhered to.  
Changes  to  the  Contra-indications,  Special  warnings  and  Special  Precautions  for  use  sections  of  the 
SPC with regard to the liver monitoring of patients being treated with leflunomide, the association of 
leflunomide with other hepatotoxic medications, and the washout procedures to be performed in case 
of serious hepatic reactions were introduced and the occurrence of severe and serious hepatic reactions 
(hepatitis,  jaundice/cholestasis  and  very  rarely,  severe  liver  injury  such  as  hepatic  failure  and  acute 
hepatic  necrosis  that  may  be  fatal)  was  added  to  the  Undesirable  effects  section  of  the  SPC.  The 
EMEA  issued  a  Public  Statement  to  inform  the  health  professionals  and  the  patients  of  this  new 
information. 
The recommendations reinforced the fact that it is essential that monitoring should be strictly adhered 
to and that Arava should only be prescribed by specialists experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis and in the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis.  
Because of the large number of hepatic reactions reported during the period of the eighth PSUR (12 
March  2002-10  September  2002)  the  MAH  was  requested  to  perform  an  analysis  on  the  reports  of 
hepatic  reactions  and  on  the  effect  of  monitoring.    Analysis  by  pharmacovigilance  experts  of  the 
CPMP revealed that there was no decrease of serious cases of hepatic reactions compared to the period 
before the urgent safety restriction procedure.  Referring to the fact that most hepatic reactions were 
reported in the first 3 to 6 months of treatment and the fact that hepatic reactions were seen between 
two  monitoring  points,  the  CPMP  recommended  an  increase  of  the  frequency  of  liver  function 
monitoring, at the same frequency of the blood count monitoring. This meant that the recommended 
frequency  for  monitoring  liver  function  tests  increased  from  "at  monthly  or  more  frequent  intervals 
during the first six months of treatment", to “every two weeks for the first 6 months”.  
5. 
Overall Conclusion on quality, efficacy, safety and benefit risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
− 
− 
In vivo clastogenicity of the parent compound and TFMA has been satisfactorily examined. No 
evidence  for  in  vivo  clastogenicity  was  found.  No  data  were  available  on  in  vivo  induction  of 
gene  mutations  by  TFMA.  The  toxicological  significance  of  the  increased  incidence  of  lung 
tumours  in  female  mice  cannot  be  determined  with  certainty  The  relevance  of  the  findings  in 
mice relative to the clinical use of leflunomide is uncertain. 
The proposed procedure for women receiving leflunomide and wishing to become pregnant is 
acceptable,  provided  that  the  monitoring  of  the  plasma  concentration  is  organised  in  an 
acceptable way. The proposed procedure for men receiving leflunomide and wishing to father a 
child is also acceptable provided that a waiting period of at least 3 months (covering the whole 
period of spermatogenesis supplemented with one month to cover the period of sperm storage) 
after  reaching  the  maximum  plasma  level  of  0.02  mg/l  is  ensured  and  provided  that  the 
monitoring of the plasma concentration is organised in an acceptable way (reference in section 
4.4 of the SPC). The method for plasma level determination of A221726 will be made available 
by the applicant.  
Efficacy 
In  the  rheumatoid  arthritis  studies  both  leflunomide  and  sulphasalazine  were  more  effective  than 
placebo, and no significant differences between leflunomide and sulphasalazine could be found for the 
primary  efficacy  parameters.  Leflunomide  is  about  as  efficacious  as  methotrexate  when  given  with 
13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concomitant  folate.  It  is  less  efficacious  than  methotrexate  when  given  without  folate.  In  the  two 
extension  studies,  lasting  for  1-3  years,  the  improvements  in  efficacy  variables  in  the  first  year  of  study  were 
well maintained on both treatments. Improvements in the primary efficacy parameter (Total X-ray score) were 
more favourable on methotrexate than on leflunomide. For the secondary parameters, some were significantly in 
favour of leflunomide (as compared to sulphasalazine) and some were significantly unfavourable (as compared 
to methotrexate). Although the optimum maintenance dose has not been fully established, efficacy has 
been shown unequivocally.  
In the psoriatic arthritis study leflunomide 20mg/day was significantly superior to placebo in reducing 
the  symptoms  of  arthritis  in  patients  with  psoriatic  arthritis  as  measured  by  PSARC.  The  effect  on 
improvement of function and the skin lesions was modest. 
Safety 
In  the  rheumatoid  arthritis  studies  in  total  1117  (83%)  patients  reported  adverse  events  (digestive 
system: 44%, body as a whole: 38%, skin: 33%, respiratory system: 31%). In 207 (16%) patients on 
LEF these adverse events led to withdrawal, most often because of abnormal LFT’s, diarrhoea, rash, 
nausea, and alopecia.  Withdrawal rates  were  higher  on LEF than  on  PLA (18% vs  7.1%)  and MTX 
(20% vs 13%), but highest on SSZ (23% vs 16%). 
Diverse serious adverse events were reported in 22% of the patients on leflunomide, more than on the 
comparators. Deaths on LEF were not more frequent than or clearly different from those in the other 
groups.  From  subgroup  analyses  it  appeared  that  abnormal  LFT’s  on  LEF  were  most  frequent  in 
women, similarly as with SSZ or MTX, but not PLA. In 16 patients with impaired liver function, and 
in  27  patients  with  impaired  kidney  function  no  increase  in  AE’s  could  be  found  as  compared  to 
normal patients. Adverse events of leflunomide are diverse and frequent, also in comparison with the 
active  comparators.  In  particular  diarrhoea,  alopecia,  hypertension,  weight  loss,  rash,  pruritus  and 
leukopenia  were  more  frequent  than  placebo,  sulfasalazine  or  methotrexate.  Although  these  adverse 
events were often mild to moderate, also serious adverse events were increased versus all comparator 
groups. 
The PsA study demonstrated a safety profile of leflunomide comparable to that known for leflunomide 
in  patients  with  rheumatoid  arthritis.  Long-term  data  from  patients  with  psoriatic  arthritis  will  be 
provided in future PSURs. 
The safety profile of leflunomide has been regularly reviewed through periodic safety update reports. 
Since launch safety concerns covered by the PSURs and for which the SPC has been updated were: 
severe skin reactions (TEN, erythema multiforme, SJS), pancytopenia, warfarin drug-drug interaction, 
hepatic  events,  sepsis/opportunistic 
infections,  pancreatitis,  arterial  hypertension,  pregnancy 
(teratogenic potential), peripheral neuropathy, vasculitis, interstitial pneumonitis and overdose reports.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
The benefit/risk profile of leflunomide in rheumatoid arthritis appeared to be favourable in comparison 
to placebo. In comparison with sulfasalazine about similar results in efficacy and safety between both 
groups  were  attained.  Leflunomide  is  about  as  efficacious  as  methotrexate  when  given  with 
concomitant folate. It is less efficacious than methotrexate when given without folate. 
The  mutagenic  potential  of  leflunomide  was  considered  not  to  exceed  that  of  methotrexate.  The 
teratogenic risk of leflunomide can  be  controlled by taking the appropriate  measures in terms of the 
application  of  washout  procedure  checked  by  monitoring  the  plasma  levels,  and  followed  by  an 
appropriate waiting period (this issue is reflected in section 4.4 and 4.6 of the SPC). 
At  the  CPMP  meeting  of  May  1999,  divergent  positions  have  been  expressed  in  order  to  reflect  the 
lack  of  advantage  of  leflunomide  over  the  current  therapies,  the  proper  establishment  of  the 
maintenance dose and the potential teratogenic effects of Arava. These divergent positions have been 
appended to the opinions that have been forwarded to the European Commission. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision that the benefit/risk profile of Arava in the treatment of adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis as a “disease-modifying antirheumatic drug” (DMARD) was favourable. 
14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The benefit/ risk ratio for leflunomide in psoriatic arthritis is favourable in comparison to placebo. It 
was  significantly  more  effective  than  placebo  in  reducing  the  symptoms  of  arthritis  as  measured  by 
PSARC,  while  the  effect  on  improvement  of  function  and  the  skin  lesions  was  modest.  The  safety 
profile in psoriatic arhtritis is comparable to that in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Available data 
do not allow direct comparison with other treatments authorised for psoriatic arthritis. 
The benefit risk profile of leflunomide remains favourable, provided that the product is used according 
to the SPC. 
15/15 
 
 
 
 
