EMA/629905/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000235 
EPAR summary for the public 
Arava 
leflunomide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Arava. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Arava. 
What is Arava? 
Arava is a medicine that contains the active substance leflunomide. It is available as tablets (10, 20 
and 100 mg). 
What is Arava used for? 
Arava is used to treat adults with active rheumatoid arthritis (an immune system disease causing 
inflammation of the joints) or active psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin 
and inflammation of the joints). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Arava used? 
Arava treatment should be started and supervised by a specialist who has experience in the treatment 
of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. The doctor should carry out blood tests to check the 
patient’s liver, white blood cell counts and platelet counts before prescribing Arava, and regularly 
during treatment. 
Arava treatment usually starts with a ‘loading dose’ of 100 mg once a day for three days, followed by a 
maintenance dose. The recommended maintenance dose is 10 to 20 mg once a day in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, and 20 mg once a day in patients with psoriatic arthritis. The medicine usually 
starts to have an effect after four to six weeks. Its effect may improve further for up to six months. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Arava work? 
The active substance in Arava, leflunomide, is an immunosuppressant. It reduces inflammation by 
reducing the production of immune cells called ‘lymphocytes’, which are responsible for inflammation. 
Leflunomide does this by blocking an enzyme called ‘dihydroorotate dehydrogenase’, which is 
necessary for the lymphocytes to multiply. With fewer lymphocytes, there is less inflammation, helping 
to control the symptoms of arthritis. 
How has Arava been studied? 
In rheumatoid arthritis, Arava has been studied in four main studies involving over 2,000 patients, in 
which it was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment), or with methotrexate or sulphasalazine 
(other medicines used to treat rheumatoid arthritis). Two of the studies lasted six months, and two 
lasted a year. The two longer studies were then extended, with patients remaining on the medicines 
for at least one more year. 
In psoriatic arthritis, Arava has been compared with placebo in 186 patients over six months. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who responded to 
treatment, as defined by disease-specific criteria (American College of Rheumatology response rates 
for rheumatoid arthritis, and the Psoriatic Arthritis treatment Response Criteria for psoriatic arthritis). 
What benefit has Arava shown during the studies? 
In rheumatoid arthritis, Arava was more effective than placebo and as effective as sulphasalazine. 
Between 49 and 55% of the patients taking Arava responded to treatment, compared with 26 to 28% 
of those taking placebo, and 54% of those taking sulphasalazine. These results were maintained in the 
extension studies. Over the first year of treatment, Arava was as effective as methotrexate, but only 
when it was taken with folate (a type of vitamin B). Arava was not as effective as methotrexate in the 
extension study. 
In psoriatic arthritis, Arava was more effective than placebo, with 59% of the patients taking Arava 
responding to treatment, compared with 30% of those taking placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Arava? 
The most common side effects with Arava (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are leucopenia 
(low white blood cell counts), mild allergic reactions, increased creatine phosphokinase levels (a 
marker of muscle damage), paraesthesia (abnormal sensations like pins and needles), peripheral 
neuropathy (nerve damage in hands and feet), headache, dizziness, mild increases in blood pressure, 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, inflammation of the mouth such as mouth ulcers, abdominal 
pain (stomach ache), increased liver enzyme levels, hair loss, eczema, rash, pruritus (itching), dry 
skin, tenosynovitis (inflammation of the sheath surrounding the tendons), loss of appetite, weight loss 
and asthenia (weakness). For the full list of all side effects reported with Arava, see the package 
leaflet. 
Arava must not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to leflunomide, to teriflunomide 
(a breakdown product of leflunomide) or to any of the other ingredients. Arava must not be used in 
patients with: 
• 
• 
liver disease; 
severe immunodeficiency states, such as acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS); 
• 
• 
• 
• 
poor bone marrow function or low blood cell counts (red cells, white cells or platelets) caused 
by conditions other than rheumatoid or psoriatic arthritis; 
serious infections; 
moderate to severely impaired kidney function; 
severe hypoproteinaemia (low blood protein levels). 
Arava must not be used in pregnant women, in women who can become pregnant and who are not 
using reliable contraception, or during breastfeeding. 
Doctors prescribing Arava need to be aware of the risk of liver problems associated with the medicine. 
They also need to take special care when switching a patient to Arava, or when switching a patient who 
is receiving Arava to another treatment. 
Why has Arava been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Arava’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Arava? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Arava is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Arava, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Arava will ensure that doctors who are expected to prescribe 
the medicine receive an information pack containing important information on the risks with Arava and 
the monitoring that should be carried out in patients.  
Other information about Arava 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Arava on 2 September 1999.  
The full EPAR for Arava can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Arava, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2014.  
