EMA/260940/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006054
Arexvy (Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine 
(recombinant, adjuvanted))
An overview of Arexvy and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Arexvy and what is it used for?
Arexvy is a vaccine for adults 60 years of age and older to protect them against 
lower respiratory tract disease (LRTD; diseases of the lungs such as bronchitis or pneumonia) caused 
by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
Arexvy contains a version of a protein found on the surface of the virus called RSVPreF3.
How is Arexvy used?
The recommended dose is one single injection into a muscle. 
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used according to official 
recommendations issued at national level by public health bodies.
For more information about using Arexvy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
How does Arexvy work?
Arexvy works by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) how to defend itself 
against a disease. Arexvy contains a protein from the surface of the RSV virus. When a person is given 
the vaccine, the immune system treats the virus proteins as ‘foreign’ and makes defences against 
them. If, later on, the vaccinated person comes into contact with the virus, the immune system will 
recognise the virus proteins and be prepared to attack it. This will help to protect against LRTD caused 
by the virus.
What benefits of Arexvy have been shown in studies?
In a study in over 25,000 adults aged 60 years and above, people who received Arexvy had an 83% 
reduction in their risk of getting LRTD caused by RSV compared with those who had a dummy 
injection. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
In the group who received Arexvy, 7 out of 12,466 vaccinated people got LRTD, while in the group who 
received dummy injections, 40 out of 12,494 people got the disease. 
What are the risks associated with Arexvy?
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Arexvy, see the package leaflet.
The most common side effects with Arexvy (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
injection site pain, tiredness, muscle pain, headache and joint pain. These side effects are usually mild 
or moderate in intensity and resolve within a few days after vaccination.
Why is Arexvy authorised in the EU?
At the time of authorisation of Arexvy, there was no vaccine to prevent RSV and no treatment, other 
than supportive care, for older adults. The main study showed that Arexvy is effective in preventing 
RSV-confirmed LRTD in this patient group. By preventing RSV-confirmed LRTD, the vaccine is also 
expected to reduce the risk of severe RSV disease. 
There are no serious safety concerns and the European Medicines Agency therefore decided that 
Arexvy’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Arexvy?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Arexvy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Arexvy are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Arexvy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.
Other information about Arexvy
Arexvy received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 06 June 2023.
Further information on Arexvy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/arexvy. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2023.
Arexvy (Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted)) 
EMA/260940/2023
Page 2/2
