ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Arexvy powder and suspension for suspension for injection 
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted) 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
After reconstitution, one dose (0.5 mL) contains: 
RSVPreF31 antigen2,3 
120 micrograms 
1 Respiratory Syncytial Virus recombinant glycoprotein F stabilised in the pre-fusion conformation = 
RSVPreF3 
2 RSVPreF3 produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology  
3 adjuvanted with AS01E containing: 
plant extract Quillaja saponaria Molina, fraction 21 (QS-21) 
3-O-desacyl-4’-monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) from Salmonella minnesota 
25 micrograms 
25 micrograms 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Powder and suspension for suspension for injection. 
The powder is white. 
The suspension is an opalescent, colourless to pale brownish liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Arexvy is indicated for active immunisation for the prevention of lower respiratory tract disease 
(LRTD) caused by respiratory syncytial virus in adults 60 years of age and older. 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Posology 
Arexvy is administered as a single dose of 0.5 mL. 
The need for revaccination with a subsequent dose has not been established. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Arexvy in children have not been established.  
No data are available. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration  
For intramuscular injection only, preferably in the deltoid muscle.  
For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.  
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
Prior to immunisation 
Appropriate medical treatment and supervision should always be readily available in case of an 
anaphylactic event following the administration of the vaccine. Close observation for at least 15 
minutes is recommended following vaccination. 
Vaccination should be postponed in individuals suffering from an acute severe febrile illness. The 
presence of a minor infection, such as a cold, should not result in the deferral of vaccination. 
As with any vaccine, a protective immune response may not be elicited in all vaccinees. 
Anxiety-related reactions, including vasovagal reactions (syncope), hyperventilation or stress‐related 
reactions may occur in association with the vaccination process itself. It is important that precautions 
are in place to avoid injury from fainting. 
Precautions for use 
Do not administer the vaccine intravascularly or intradermally. No data are available on subcutaneous 
administration of Arexvy. 
As with other intramuscular injections, Arexvy should be given with caution to individuals with 
thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorder since bleeding may occur following intramuscular 
administration to these individuals.  
Systemic immunosuppressive medicinal products and immunodeficiency 
Safety and immunogenicity data on Arexvy are not available for immunocompromised individuals. 
Patients receiving immunosuppresive treatment or patients with immunodeficiency may have a 
reduced immune response to Arexvy.  
Excipients  
This medicinal product contains potassium, less than 1 mmol (39 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially 
‘potassium-free’.  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Use with other vaccines 
Arexvy may be administered concomitantly with seasonal influenza vaccine (quadrivalent, standard 
dose, unadjuvanted, inactivated). In a randomised study in adults 60 years of age and older, the criteria 
for non-inferiority of the immune responses in the co-administration versus the separate administration 
group were met. However, numerically lower RSV A and B neutralising titres and numerically lower 
influenza A and B haemagglutination inhibition titres were observed when Arexvy and inactivated 
seasonal influenza vaccine were co-administered than when they were administered separately. The 
clinical relevance of this finding is unknown. There are no data on co-administration with high dose or 
adjuvanted seasonal influenza vaccines. 
If Arexvy is to be given at the same time as another injectable vaccine, the vaccines should always be 
administered at different injection sites. 
Concomitant administration of Arexvy with other vaccines has not been studied. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of Arexvy in pregnant women. After administration of an 
investigational unadjuvanted RSVPreF3 vaccine to 3 557 pregnant women in a single clinical study, 
an increase in preterm births was observed compared to placebo. Currently no conclusion on a causal 
relationship between administration of unadjuvanted RSVPreF3 and preterm birth can be drawn. 
Results from animal studies with an investigational unadjuvanted RSVPreF3 vaccine and results with 
Arexvy do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3). Arexvy is not recommended during pregnancy.  
Breast-feeding 
There are no data on the excretion of Arexvy in human or animal milk. Arexvy is not recommended in 
breast-feeding/lactating women. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of Arexvy on human fertility. Animal studies with an investigational 
unadjuvanted RSVPreF3 vaccine or Arexvy do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with 
respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
No studies on the effects of Arexvy on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. 
Arexvy has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Some of the effects mentioned 
under section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” (e.g. fatigue) may temporarily affect the ability to drive or use 
machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety profile presented below is based on a placebo-controlled Phase III clinical study (conducted 
in Europe, North America, Asia and Southern hemisphere) in adults ≥ 60 years of age in which more 
than 12 000 adults received one dose of Arexvy and more than 12 000 received placebo. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study participants 60 years of age and older, the most commonly reported adverse reactions were 
injection site pain (61%), fatigue (34%), myalgia (29%), headache (28%), and arthralgia (18%). These 
adverse reactions were usually mild or moderate in intensity and resolved within a few days after 
vaccination.  
Most other adverse reactions were uncommon and similarly reported between the study groups. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA system organ class and frequency. 
Very common    
Common 
Uncommon  
Rare 
Very rare 
(≥ 1/10) 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) 
(< 1/10 000) 
Table 1. Adverse reactions 
System Organ Class  
Frequency  
Adverse reactions  
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders  
Uncommon  
lymphadenopathy  
Immune system disorders  
Uncommon  
hypersensitivity reactions (such 
as rash)  
Nervous system disorders  
Very common  
headache  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Uncommon  
nausea, abdominal pain, 
vomiting  
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders  
Very common  
myalgia, arthralgia  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions  
Very common  
injection site pain, fatigue  
Common  
injection site erythema, injection 
site swelling, fever, chills  
Uncommon  
injection site pruritus  
pain, malaise  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
No case of overdose has been reported in the clinical studies. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: not yet assigned, ATC code: not yet assigned  
Mechanism of action 
By combining the RSV-specific antigen, F-protein in prefusion conformation, with an adjuvant system 
(AS01E), Arexvy is designed to enhance antigen-specific cellular immune response and neutralizing 
antibodies response in individuals with pre-existing immunity against RSV. The adjuvant AS01E 
facilitates the recruitment and activation of antigen presenting cells carrying vaccine-derived antigens 
in the draining lymph node, which in turn leads to the generation of RSVPreF3-specific CD4+ T cells.  
Efficacy  
Efficacy against RSV-associated LRTD in adults 60 years and older was evaluated in an ongoing, 
Phase III, randomised, placebo-controlled, observer-blind clinical study conducted in 17 countries 
from Northern and Southern Hemispheres. Participants are planned to be followed for up to 
36 months.  
The primary population for efficacy analysis (referred to as the modified Exposed Set, included adults 
60 years of age and older receiving 1 dose of Arexvy or placebo and who did not report an RSV-
confirmed acute respiratory illness (ARI) prior to Day 15 after vaccination) included 24 960 
participants randomised equally to receive 1 dose of Arexvy (N = 12 466) or placebo (N = 12 494). At 
the time of the primary efficacy analysis, participants had been followed for the development of RSV-
associated LRTD for a median of 6.7 months.   
The median age of participants was 69 years (range: 59 to 102 years), with approximately 74% over 
65 years of age, approximately 44% over 70 years of age and approximately 8% over 80 years of age. 
Approximately 52% were female. At baseline, 39.3% of participants had at least one comorbidity of 
interest; 19.7% of participants had an underlying cardiorespiratory condition (COPD, asthma, any 
chronic respiratory/pulmonary disease, or chronic heart failure) and 25.8% of participants had 
endocrinometabolic conditions (diabetes, advanced liver or renal disease).  
Efficacy against RSV-associated LRTD 
The primary objective was to demonstrate the efficacy in the prevention of a first episode of confirmed 
RSV-A and/or B associated LRTD during the first season. Confirmed RSV cases were determined by 
quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR) on nasopharyngeal swab. 
LRTD was defined based on the following criteria: the participant must have experienced at least 2 
lower respiratory symptoms/signs including at least 1 lower respiratory sign for at least 24 hours, or 
experienced at least 3 lower respiratory symptoms for at least 24 hours. Lower respiratory symptoms 
included: new or increased sputum, new or increased cough, new or increased dyspnea (shortness of 
breath). Lower respiratory signs included: new or increased wheezing, crackles/ronchi, respiratory rate 
≥ 20 respirations/min, low or decreased oxygen saturation (O2 saturation < 95% or ≤ 90% if baseline is 
< 95%) or need for oxygen supplementation. 
The vaccine efficacy overall and by subgroups is presented in Table 2. 
Efficacy in preventing first RSV-associated LRTD with an onset from 15 days after vaccination 
compared to placebo was 82.6% (96.95% confidence interval of 57.9% to 94.1%) in participants 
60 years of age and older. Vaccine efficacy against RSV-LRTD was observed through the median 
follow-up period of 6.7 months. The vaccine efficacy against RSV A-associated LRTD cases and RSV 
B-associated LRTD cases was 84.6% (95% CI [32.1, 98.3]) and 80.9% (95% CI [49.4, 94.3]), 
respectively. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Efficacy analysis: First RSV-associated LRTD overall, by age and co-morbidity 
subgroups (modified exposed set) 
Arexvy 
Placebo 
Subgroup 
Overall  
(≥ 60 years)b 
N 
12 466 
60-69 years 
6 963 
70-79 years 
4 487 
n 
7 
4 
1 
Incidence 
rate per 
1 000 
person-
years 
Incidence 
rate per 
1 000 
person-
years 
N 
n 
% Efficacy  
(CI)a 
1.0 
12 494 
40 
5.8 
82.6 (57.9, 94.1) 
1.0 
0.4 
6 979 
21 
4 487 
16 
5.5 
6.5 
81.0 (43.6, 95.3) 
93.8 (60.2, 99.9) 
4 937  
1  
0.4  
4 861  
18  
6.6  
94.6 (65.9, 99.9)  
Participants 
with at least 1 
comorbidity 
of interest   
aCI = Confidence Interval (96.95% for the overall (≥ 60 years) and 95% for all subgroup analyses). 
Two-sided exact CI for vaccine efficacy is derived based on Poisson model adjusted by age categories 
and regions. 
bPrimary confirmatory objective with pre-specified success criterion of lower limit of the 2-sided CI 
for vaccine efficacy above 20% 
N = Number of participants included in each group  
n = Number of participants having first occurrence of RSV-confirmed LRTD occurring from Day 15 
post vaccination  
The vaccine efficacy in the subgroup of participants 80 years of age and older (1 016 participants in 
Arexvy vs 1 028 participants in placebo) cannot be concluded due to the low number of total cases 
accrued (5 cases). 
Amongst 18 RSV-LRTD cases with at least 2 lower respiratory signs or preventing everyday 
activities, 4 cases of severe RSV-LRTD requiring oxygen supplementation occurred in the placebo 
group, while there were none in the RSVPreF3 group. 
Paediatric population  
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Arexvy in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in prevention of lower respiratory tract 
disease caused by respiratory syncytial virus (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Not applicable 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of repeated dose 
toxicity.  
Reproductive and developmental studies with an unadjuvanted RSVPreF3 vaccine as well as results 
from a study with Arexvy in rabbits did not reveal vaccine-related effects on female fertility, 
pregnancy, or embryo-foetal or offspring development. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Powder (RSVPreF3 antigen) 
Trehalose dihydrate  
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Potassium dihydrogen phosphate (E 340) 
Dipotassium phosphate (E 340) 
Suspension (AS01E Adjuvant System) 
Dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine (E 322) 
Cholesterol 
Sodium chloride 
Disodium phosphate, anhydrous (E 339) 
Potassium dihydrogen phosphate (E 340) 
Water for injections 
For adjuvant see also section 2.  
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years 
After reconstitution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 4 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C or at room 
temperature up to 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
should not be longer than 4 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Arexvy is presented as: 
  Powder for 1 dose in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (butyl rubber) and a mustard green 
flip-off cap (antigen).  
  Suspension for 1 dose in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (butyl rubber) and a brown flip-
off cap (adjuvant). 
Arexvy is available in a pack size of 1 vial of powder plus 1 vial of suspension or in a pack size of 10 
vials of powder plus 10 vials of suspension. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
The powder and the suspension must be reconstituted prior to administration. 
Antigen 
Powder 
Adjuvant 
Suspension 
1 dose (0.5 mL) 
The powder and suspension should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or 
variation of appearance. If either is observed, do not reconstitute the vaccine. 
How to prepare Arexvy 
Arexvy must be reconstituted prior to administration. 
1. Withdraw the entire contents of the vial containing the suspension into a syringe. 
2. Add the entire contents of the syringe into the vial containing the powder. 
3. Gently swirl until the powder is completely dissolved. 
The reconstituted vaccine is an opalescent, colourless to pale brownish liquid. 
The reconstituted vaccine should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or 
variation of appearance. If either is observed, do not administer the vaccine. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 4 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C or at room 
temperature up to 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
should not be longer than 4 hours. 
Before administration 
1. Withdraw 0.5 mL of the reconstituted vaccine into the syringe. 
2. Change the needle so that you are using a new needle.  
Administer the vaccine intramuscularly. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rue de l’Institut 89 
1330 Rixensart 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1740/001 
EU/1/23/1740/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 06 June 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II  
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Avenue Fleming, 20 
1300 Wavre 
Belgium 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Rue de L’Institut 89 
1330 Rixensart 
Belgium 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
 
Official batch release 
In accordance with Article 114 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken 
by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk 
profile or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) 
milestone being reached. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Arexvy powder and suspension for suspension for injection 
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
After reconstitution, 1 dose (0.5 mL) contains 120 micrograms of Respiratory Syncytial Virus 
recombinant glycoprotein F stabilised in the pre-fusion conformation adjuvanted with AS01E 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Powder: 
Trehalose dihydrate, Polysorbate 80, Potassium dihydrogen phosphate, Dipotassium phosphate. 
Suspension: 
Dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine, Cholesterol, Sodium chloride, Disodium phosphate, anhydrous, 
Potassium dihydrogen phosphate, Water for injections. 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder and suspension for suspension for injection 
1 vial: powder (antigen) 
1 vial: suspension (adjuvant) 
10 vials: powder (antigen) 
10 vials: suspension (adjuvant) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intramuscular use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Powder and suspension to be reconstituted before administration 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antigen 
Adjuvant 
1 dose (0.5 mL) 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Rue de l’Institut 89 
1330 Rixensart, Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1740/001 1 vial and 1 vial 
EU/1/23/1740/002 10 vials and 10 vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL WITH POWDER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Antigen for Arexvy  
IM 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
Mix with adjuvant 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
1 dose 
6. 
OTHER  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL WITH SUSPENSION  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Adjuvant for Arexvy 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
Mix with antigen 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
1 dose (0.5 mL) 
6. 
OTHER  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Arexvy powder and suspension for suspension for injection  
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted)  
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you receive this vaccine because it contains important 
information for you. 
  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
  If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
  If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Arexvy is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you receive Arexvy  
3.  How Arexvy is given 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Arexvy   
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Arexvy is and what it is used for  
Arexvy is a vaccine that helps to protect adults aged 60 years and older against a virus called 
‘respiratory syncytial virus’ (RSV).  
RSV is a respiratory virus that spreads very easily. 
  RSV can cause lower respiratory tract disease - infections of the lungs and other parts of the 
body that help you breathe.  
RSV infection can happen at any age, and usually causes mild, cold-like signs in adults. But it can 
also: 
cause more serious respiratory illness in infants and older adults 
 
  make some illnesses worse, such as long-term respiratory or heart diseases. 
How Arexvy works 
Arexvy helps your body’s natural defences make antibodies and special white blood cells. These 
protect you against RSV.  
Arexvy does not contain the virus. This means it cannot cause an infection. 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Arexvy  
Do not use Arexvy  
 
if you are allergic to the active substances or any of the other ingredients of this vaccine 
(listed in section 6). 
Do not use Arexvy if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you receive Arexvy if: 
 
 
 
 
you have ever had a severe allergic reaction after the injection of any other vaccine  
you have a severe infection with a high temperature (fever). If this happens, the vaccination 
may be delayed until you feel better. A minor infection such as a cold should not be a 
problem but talk to your doctor first 
you have a bleeding problem or bruise easily 
you have fainted with a previous injection - fainting can happen before or after any needle 
injection. 
If any of the above apply to you, or you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you have 
Arexvy. 
As with all vaccines, Arexvy may not fully protect all people who are vaccinated. 
Other medicines/vaccines and Arexvy 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if: 
  you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. This includes 
medicines obtained without a prescription.  
  you have recently received any other vaccine. 
Arexvy may be given at the same time as a flu vaccine.  
If Arexvy is given at the same time as another injectable vaccine, a different injection site will be used 
for each vaccine, which means a different arm for each injection. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before you are given this vaccine.  
Arexvy is not recommended during pregnancy or breast-feeding.  
Driving and using machines  
Some of the effects mentioned below in section 4 “Possible side effects” (e.g. feeling tired) may 
temporarily affect the ability to drive or use machines. Do not drive or use machines or tools if you are 
feeling unwell. 
Arexvy contains sodium and potassium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol (39 mg) potassium per dose, i.e. essentially ‘potassium-free’. 
3. 
How Arexvy is given  
Arexvy is given as a single dose injection of 0.5 mL into a muscle. It is usually given into the upper 
arm.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
22 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects may happen after receiving Arexvy: 
Very common (these may occur with more than 1 in 10 doses of the vaccine): 
  pain at the injection site 
 
feeling tired (fatigue) 
  headache 
  muscle pain (myalgia) 
 
joint pain (arthralgia) 
Common (these may occur with up to 1 in 10 doses of the vaccine): 
 
 
 
redness and swelling where the injection is given  
fever  
chills 
Uncommon (these may occur with up to 1 in 100 doses of vaccine) 
itching at the injection site  
 
  pain  
  generally feeling unwell (malaise) 
 
 
 
  vomiting 
 
stomach pain 
enlarged lymph nodes, or swollen glands in the neck, armpit or groin (lymphadenopathy) 
allergic reactions such as rash 
feeling sick (nausea)  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you get any of the side effects listed above. Most of these side effects 
are mild to moderate in intensity and do not last long. 
If any of the side effects gets serious, or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, please 
tell your doctor or pharmacist.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Arexvy  
  Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
  Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
 
  Do not freeze. 
 
  Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Arexvy contains  
  The active substances are:  
After reconstitution, one dose (0.5 mL) contains: 
RSVPreF31 antigen2,3 
120 micrograms 
1 Respiratory Syncytial Virus recombinant glycoprotein F stabilised in the pre-fusion 
conformation = RSVPreF3 
2 RSVPreF3 produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA 
technology  
3 adjuvanted with AS01E containing: 
plant extract Quillaja saponaria Molina, fraction 21 (QS-21) 
25 micrograms 
3-O-desacyl-4’-monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) from Salmonella minnesota
25 micrograms 
The RSVPreF3 is a protein present in the Respiratory Syncytial Virus. This protein is not 
infectious. 
The adjuvant is used to improve the body’s response to the vaccine. 
  The other ingredients are:  
o  Powder (RSVPreF3 antigen): Trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 80 (E 433), 
potassium dihydrogen phosphate (E 340), dipotassium phosphate (E 340). 
o  Suspension: Dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine (E 322), cholesterol, sodium chloride, 
disodium phosphate anhydrous (E 339), potassium dihydrogen phosphate (E 340) 
and water for injections. 
See Section 2 “Arexvy contains sodium and potassium”. 
What Arexvy looks like and contents of the pack 
Powder and suspension for suspension for injection. 
 
  The powder is white. 
  The suspension is an opalescent, colourless to pale brownish liquid. 
One pack of Arexvy consists of:  
 
 
Powder (antigen) for 1 dose in a vial 
Suspension (adjuvant) for 1 dose in a vial 
Arexvy is available in a pack size of 1 vial of powder plus 1 vial of suspension or in a pack size of 10 
vials of powder plus 10 vials of suspension. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Rue de l’Institut 89 
1330 Rixensart 
Belgium 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v 
Tél/Tel : + 32 10 85 52 00 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +370 80000334 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Тел. +359 80018205 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v 
Tél/Tel: + 32 10 85 52 00 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel: + 49 (0)89 360448701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +372 8002640 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Tηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com  
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél : + 33 (0) 1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel.: +385 800787089 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Ltd 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 495 5000 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel.: +36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081100 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com  
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (22) 576 9000 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel : + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com 
România 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +40 800672524 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +386 80688869 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Vistor hf.  
Sími: +354 535 7000  
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741 111 
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SAΤηλ: +357 
80070017 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel.: +421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SATel: +371 
80205045 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA 
Tel: +44(0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Arexvy is presented as a vial with a mustard green flip-off cap containing the powder (antigen) and a 
vial with a brown flip-off cap containing the suspension (adjuvant). 
The powder and the suspension must be reconstituted prior to administration. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antigen 
Powder 
Adjuvant 
Suspension 
1 dose (0.5 mL) 
The powder and suspension should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or 
variation of appearance. If either is observed, do not reconstitute the vaccine. 
How to prepare  Arexvy 
Arexvy must be reconstituted prior to administration. 
1.  Withdraw the entire contents of the vial containing the suspension into the syringe. 
2. 
3. 
Add the entire contents of the syringe into the vial containing the powder. 
Gently swirl until the powder is completely dissolved. 
The reconstituted vaccine is an opalescent, colourless to pale brownish liquid. 
The reconstituted vaccine should be inspected visually for any foreign particulate matter and/or 
variation of appearance. If either is observed, do not administer the vaccine. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 4 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C or at room 
temperature up to 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
should not be longer than 4 hours. 
Before administration 
1.  Withdraw 0.5 mL of the reconstituted vaccine into the syringe. 
2. 
Change the needle so that you are using a new needle. 
Administer the vaccine intramuscularly. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
