EMA/446084/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005264 
Arikayce liposomal (amikacin) 
An overview of Arikayce liposomal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Arikayce liposomal and what is it used for? 
Arikayce liposomal is an antibiotic for treating adults with a lung infection caused by Mycobacterium 
avium complex (MAC), a group of bacteria commonly found in the environment, such as in soil and 
water. It is used in patients with limited treatment options who do not have cystic fibrosis. 
Lung infection caused by MAC is rare, and Arikayce liposomal was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a 
medicine used in rare diseases) on 8 April 2014. Further information on the orphan designation can be 
found here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations eu3141259.  
Arikayce liposomal contains the active substance amikacin.  
How is Arikayce liposomal used? 
The patient inhales Arikayce liposomal through the mouth once a day using a nebuliser (a machine for 
turning the medicine into a mist that the patient can breathe in). If tests show that the infection has 
cleared, the patient should continue using Arikayce liposomal for a further 12 months; however, if the 
infection shows no sign of clearing 6 months after starting treatment, the medicine should be stopped. 
Arikayce liposomal is used together with other antibiotics. It can only be obtained with a prescription, 
and treatment should be started and managed by a doctor experienced in treating MAC lung infection. 
Prescribers should consider official guidance on the use of antibiotics. 
For more information about using Arikayce liposomal, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Arikayce liposomal work? 
Amikacin is an antibiotic that belongs to the group 'aminoglycosides'. It works by disrupting the 
production of proteins that bacteria need to build their cell walls, thereby damaging the bacteria and 
eventually killing them. In this medicine, amikacin is contained in tiny fat particles known as 
liposomes, which allows the medicine to remain in the lung for longer. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Arikayce liposomal have been shown in studies? 
A main study in 336 patients showed that Arikayce liposomal is effective at clearing lung infections 
caused by MAC. After 6 months of treatment, 29% of patients on standard care who used Arikayce 
liposomal tested negative for the infection, compared with 9% of patients on standard care alone. In 
addition, 3 months after stopping treatment, 55% of patients whose infections cleared with Arikayce 
liposomal continued to test negative. No patient who received standard care tested negative 3 months 
after stopping treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Arikayce liposomal? 
The most common side effects with Arikayce liposomal affect the lungs and airways: dysphonia 
(changes to the voice), cough, dyspnoea (difficulty breathing) and haemoptysis (coughing up blood) 
may affect more than 1 person in 10.  
Other common side effects include pain in the mouth or throat, tiredness, diarrhoea, worsening of 
bronchiectasis (weakened, scarred airways and build-up of mucus) due to infection, nausea (feeling 
sick) and bronchospasm.  
Arikayce liposomal must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to soya, to any 
aminoglycoside antibiotic or to any ingredient of this medicine. It must also not be used together with 
another aminoglycoside or in patients with severely impaired kidneys. 
For the full list of side effects of Arikayce liposomal, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Arikayce liposomal authorised in the EU? 
The main study showed that Arikayce liposomal can clear MAC lung infection in some patients. 
Although the effect of Arikayce liposomal is modest, the medicine could benefit patients who have few 
treatment options. In terms of its safety, Arikayce liposomal can cause significant side effects, 
particularly during the first months of treatment. The Agency therefore recommended restricting the 
medicine to patients with limited treatment options. 
The Agency concluded that the benefits of Arikayce liposomal outweigh its risks and that it can be 
authorised in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Arikayce liposomal? 
The company will provide patients taking the medicine with an alert card to inform them of the risk of 
allergic alveolitis (inflammation in the lungs due to an allergy). 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Arikayce liposomal have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Arikayce liposomal are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Arikayce liposomal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Arikayce liposomal 
Arikayce liposomal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 October 2020. 
Arikayce liposomal (amikacin)  
EMA/446084/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Arikayce liposomal can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR arikayce-liposomal.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2020. 
Arikayce liposomal (amikacin)  
EMA/446084/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
