27 October 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-518626 
EMA/OD/0000030955  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Arikayce liposomal (Amikacin sulfate) 
Treatment of nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease 
EU/3/14/1259 
Sponsor: Insmed Netherlands B.V.     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
4. COMP position adopted on 10 September 2020 ....................................... 8 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Amikacin sulfate 
designation 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Amikacin 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Arikayce liposomal 
Treatment of nontuberculous mycobacterial lung 
disease  
Sponsor’s details: 
Insmed Netherlands B.V.   
Stadsplateau 7 
3521 AZ Utrecht 
Netherlands  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Insmed Limited  
6 February 2014 
8 April 2014 
EU/3/14/1259 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Insmed Limited to Insmed Netherlands 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Jayne Crowe / Ewa Balkowiec Iskra 
B.V. – EC decision of 21 February 2019 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Insmed Netherlands B.V.   
1 July 2019 
18 July 2019 
EMA/H/C/005264 
Arikayce liposomal 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) 
lung infections caused by Mycobacterium avium 
Complex (MAC) in adults with limited treatment 
options who do not have cystic fibrosis. 
Further information on Arikayce liposomal can be 
found in the European public assessment report 
(EPAR) on the Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/arikayce-
CHMP opinion date 
liposomal  
23 July 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Nikolaos Sypsas / Eva Malikova 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
4 March 2020 
COMP discussion  
COMP opinion date 
8-10 September 2020 
10 September 2020 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2014 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing amikacin sulfate was 
considered justified based on the established clinical efficacy of amikacin as active substance in the 
proposed condition, and on preclinical data with the sponsor’s liposomal formulation for inhalation 
showing high eradication rates of nontuberculous mycobacterial infection in the lungs; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to progressive lung damage in severe forms that 
respond poorly to treatment; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 0.6 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing amikacin sulfate may be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. 
The sponsor presented early clinical data showing better lung penetration and lower incidence of 
side effects as compared to the existing intravenous formulation. The Committee considered that 
this can translate into a clinically relevant advantage for patients affected by nontuberculous 
mycobacterial lung disease, as there are well-known and documented side-effects of the existing 
intravenous formulation that limit its use. In addition, the possibility of using amikacin by 
inhalation has the potential to result in a major contribution to patient care by allowing the 
outpatient administration of the product. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The therapeutic indication “Treatment of non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) lung infections caused 
by Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) in adults with limited treatment options who do not have 
cystic fibrosis” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of nontuberculous 
mycobacterial lung disease”. 
Non-Tuberculous Mycobacterial (NTM) disease refers to those cases of clinical infection caused by 
Mycobacteria other than Mycobacterium Tuberculosis. There are many species of NTM, many of which 
are not implicated in human infection and disease.  Mycobacterium avium complex (MAXC) is by far 
the most common NTM responsible of pulmonary disease in humans, followed by M. abscessus, M. 
fortuitum and M. kansasii.  
NTM pulmonary disease manifests often as primarily upper lobe fibrocavitary disease. In addition to 
lung manifestations, lymphatic, skin/soft tissue, and disseminated disease can occur. The diagnosis 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
can be complex, as often the recovery of a single isolate from the airways does not necessarily prove 
the causative role of the recovered mycobacteria in the on-going lung infection and disease, also 
because the clinical manifestations are not specific and the affected patients have additional 
comorbidities and are therefore often colonized by multiple different microorganisms. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility was confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. Please see 
EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There have been no changes in the seriousness of the condition since the time of orphan designation. 
NTM lung disease is a chronic condition requiring complex and lengthy treatments consisting of multi-
drug regimen of which some drugs are not well tolerated by affected patients, in particular if the 
disease is severe or in patients having failed prior treatment attempts. The chronic disease often leads 
to progressive inflammation and even to lung damage. 
The prognosis of NTM lung disease caused by MAC is poor and is associated with a high mortality risk. 
Five-year all-cause mortality rates have been reported up to 39.7% 
Number of people affected or at risk 
There have been no changes in the prevalence of the condition since the time of orphan designation. 
The sponsor concluded with an estimated prevalence of 0.65 per 10,000 inhabitants based on 
literature searches.  
The literature search was first performed including all relevant non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) 
species, then combined with results for NTM lung disease specifically, and finally restricted to 
epidemiology data of Europe. While a number of epidemiological publications reported the incidence of 
the condition, the sponsor retrieved one study of the NTM lung disease prevalence rates in 5 EU 
countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, UK), reporting prevalence rates between 0.59 and 0.65 per 
10,000 (Wagner et al., 2014). Additional point prevalence rates for the overall condition NTW were 
available only for Germany (0.23 per 10,000 in 2009 and 0.33 in 2014) (Ringshausen et al., 2016) and 
the UK (0.78 in 2006 and 0.47 in 2016 per 10,000) (Axson et al., 2018). 
The sponsor used the most conservative figure of 0.65 in 10,000 as the proposed prevalence estimate, 
which was considered acceptable.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There are no approved treatments specifically for NTM or for the subset with MAC lung disease in the 
EU. Treatment guidelines have been developed by the ATS/IDSA and the British Thoracic Society, 
which have since been adopted by various countries globally and incorporated into local guidelines. The 
current treatment of NTM lung disease is primarily with a multi-drug regimen (MDR) based on the 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment of tuberculosis. The recommendation for patients with MAC is a 3-drug regimen including a 
macrolide, ethambutol and a rifamycin. Treatment is often for 12 to 18 months and selected based on 
clinical presentation and disease progression but may exceed 18 months. 
Specifically, the ATS/IDSA guidelines recommend a 3 times weekly regimen of clarithromycin (1,000 
mg) or azithromycin (500 mg), rifampicin (600 mg) and ethambutol (25 mg/kg) for most patients with 
nodular/bronchiectatic MAC lung disease. For patients with fibrocavitary MAC lung disease or severe 
nodular/bronchiectatic disease, a daily regimen of clarithromycin (500 to 1,000 mg) or azithromycin 
(250 mg), rifampicin (600 mg) or rifabutin (150 to 300 mg) and ethambutol (15 mg/kg) with 
consideration of 3 times weekly IV amikacin or streptomycin early in therapy is recommended. Patients 
should continue treatment for 12 months after sputum culture conversion (SCC) has been achieved. 
The recently updated British Thoracic Society guideline on the management of NTM pulmonary disease 
provides treatment recommendations similar to the ATS/IDSA guidelines for the NTM species that most 
commonly fulfil the ATS/IDSA microbiologic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease within the UK, namely 
MAC, M. kansasii, M. malmoense, M. xenopi and M. abscessus complex.  
The guidance is based on five randomised controlled studies and several non-comparative studies 
involving individuals (not known to be HIV-positive) with MAC identified in the literature. The stated 
aim of treatment is to achieve 12 months of negative sputum cultures while on treatment. SCC on 
treatment has been reported to occur in the majority of patients without fibrocavitary disease if they 
complete a full course of guideline-based treatment. In patients who experience treatment failure 
and/or have more severe underlying conditions such as fibrocavitary disease, it is more difficult to 
achieve SCC even with extended treatment, and alternative therapeutic options are limited.  
Amikacin has been shown to be active against NTM in vitro. It has been tested against NTM in samples 
obtained from > 30,000 patients in England over a 13-year period (2000 to 2014). Furthermore, the 
majority of clinical NTM isolates (96%) have been found to have amikacin MICs ≤ 32 μg/mL. Inclusion 
of nebulized rather than parenteral amikacin in systemic treatment regimens has been used off-label in 
some treatment centres but this is not based on robust evidence from controlled clinical trials.  
Significant benefit 
The significant benefit was argued by the sponsor on the basis of clinical efficacy of Arikayce liposomal 
in last line patients who did not respond to previous treatments (none of which is specifically 
authorized for the condition, albeit they are used and recommended in guidelines). Arikayce was used 
on top of standard of care.  
The pivotal study INS-212 tested Arikayce liposomal in combination with standard of care for multi-
drug resistant (MDR) in non-CF patients with confirmed NTM lung infection caused by MAC who did not 
show sputum culture conversion (SCC) to negative after at least 6 months of guideline-recommended 
antibiotic therapy. The number of treatments varied from 1 to ≥4 at baseline (Table 2), with almost all 
the study population on a macrolide regimen (equally distributed in the MDR-only arm and the MDR 
plus Arikayce arm of the study). Approximately 30% of patients were exposed to at least 1 systemic or 
inhaled aminoglycoside prior to baseline. The MDR duration patient population was on average 3.94 
years for the whole patient population. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Subjects by number of MDR agents at Baseline (ITT population) (from the CHMP report) 
ALIS, amikacin liposome inhalation suspension; ITT, intent-to-treat; MDR, multidrug regimen; N, number 
Table 2.  patients who received at least 1 systemic aminoglycoside and/or inhaled aminoglycoside 
treatment prior to study Baseline (ITT population) (from the CHMP report) 
ALIS, amikacin liposome inhalation suspension; ITT, intent-to-treat; MDR, multidrug regimen; N, n, number 
In the study approximately 1/8 patients who assumed ALIS in addition to MDR achieved and sustained 
SCC at month 3 after completing 12 months of treatment post-SCC. However, the rate drops to 1/10 
by month 12 post-treatment. Some of these patients may have a relapse while others may have a 
reinfection. It can be expected that adding a single inhaled agent to patients who have failed to 
respond to prior treatment would have limited efficacy but in a population who failed to respond to 
recommended regimens, and considering the severity of uncontrolled NTM, and the lack of alternative 
treatments, this benefit may be important in this patients’ subset. For this reason, the use of this 
product was considered by the EU licencing body (CHMP) to be beneficial in the patient group with no 
or limited treatment options. The use is recommended under supervision of experts in the field of NTM 
management. 
The COMP considered that significant benefit was supported based on the demonstration of clinical 
efficacy in patients for whom no or limited treatment options exist.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 10 September 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease (hereinafter referred to as “the 
condition”) was estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be approximately 
0.65 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to progressive lung damage in 
severe forms that respond poorly to treatment. Five-year mortality rates have been reported up to 
40%; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Arikayce liposomal may be of potential significant benefit to 
those affected by the orphan condition still hold. This is based on clinical data showing that in some 
patients with non-tuberculous mycobacterial lung infection caused by Mycobacterium avium 
complex and limited treatment options, Arikayce liposomal, used on top of background treatment 
in last line, resulted in clearance of the mycobacteria from the sputum. The Committee considered 
that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage for patients affected by the condition. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Arikayce liposomal, amikacin 
sulfate, amikacin, for treatment of nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease (EU/3/14/1259) is not 
removed from the Community Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
