EMA/287650/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Aripiprazole Zentiva (aripiprazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Aripiprazole Zentiva, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Aripiprazole Zentiva is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Aripiprazole Zentiva, which can be found on Aripiprazole Zentiva’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Aripiprazole Zentiva is a medicine used for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder. 
Schizophrenia is a mental illness with a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and 
speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions 
(false beliefs) that typically appear in adulthood. Men and women are affected equally, though 
symptoms appear slightly earlier in men than in women. It is estimated that there are 24 million 
people with schizophrenia worldwide. In Europe about 15 in every 100,000 people are newly diagnosed 
with schizophrenia each year, and it is thought that about 1 in every 100 people have the disease at 
any one time.  
Bipolar I disorder is a mental illness in which patients have manic episodes (periods of abnormally high 
mood), alternating with periods of normal mood. They may also have episodes of depression. Up to 
2.4% of people worldwide are affected with bipolar I disorder at some point in their life.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Aripiprazole Zentiva contains the active substance aripiprazole and is available as (5, 10, 15 and 30 
mg) and orodispersible tablets (tablets that dissolve in the mouth; 10, 15 and 30 mg). Aripiprazole 
Zentiva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Abilify. 
Because Aripiprazole Zentiva is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. Studies in people have been limited to tests to determine that it is 
bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Abilify. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce 
the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of aripiprazole in pregnant and breastfeeding women. 
In addition, Aripiprazole Zentiva is not recommended for use in patients with schizophrenia below 15 
years of age due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy. 
Page 1/6 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Movement 
Patients on Aripiprazole Zentiva are 
Consultation with the doctor before 
disorders including 
at risk of developing movement 
starting treatment regarding the 
tardive dyskinesia 
disorders (including tardive 
presence of involuntary, irregular muscle 
(abnormal 
dyskinesia). There have been 
movements, especially in the face is 
movements of the 
uncommon reports of tardive 
required. 
tongue, face, 
dyskinesia in clinical trials lasting up 
arms, or body)  
to one year. The likelihood of tardive 
dyskinesia becoming irreversible 
appears to increase with treatment 
duration and the total cumulative 
Aripiprazole should be prescribed for the 
shortest duration necessary to produce a 
satisfactory clinical response to minimize 
the occurrence of movement disorders. 
dose. Less commonly, the condition 
If signs and symptoms appear, dose 
develops after relatively brief 
reduction or discontinuation should be 
treatment periods at low doses. 
considered. 
In paediatric clinical trials of 
aripiprazole with adolescents aged 13 
years and older, akathisia (inability to 
sit still or remain motionless) and 
parkinsonism were observed 
especially with a daily dose of 30 mg. 
Life-threatening 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome 
Doctors should monitor patients for 
neurological 
(NMS) is a potentially fatal condition 
symptoms, particularly early in the 
disorder called 
associated with antipsychotic 
course of treatment. 
neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome 
medicines. In clinical trials, rare cases 
of NMS were reported during 
treatment with aripiprazole. The 
symptoms may include fever, muscle 
stiffness, altered mental status, 
evidence of autonomic instability 
Patients who experienced muscle 
stiffness with high fever, sweating, 
altered mental status, or very rapid or 
irregular heart beat should immediately 
seek advice from a doctor.  
(irregular pulse or blood pressure), 
If a patient develops signs and 
and acute kidney failure.  
symptoms indicative of NMS, or presents 
with unexplained high fever without 
additional clinical manifestations of NMS, 
all antipsychotic medicines, including 
Aripiprazole Zentiva, must be 
discontinued. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Low blood pressure upon 
When standing up quickly, it may take a second or two for the body to 
standing  
make adjustments to constrict blood vessels and push blood up to the 
brain. If there is a delay, then this time of relative low blood pressure 
Page 2/6 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
(Postural or orthostatic 
(postural hypotension) may cause symptoms such as light 
hypotension) 
headedness, falls and visual blurring. Postural hypotension has been 
reported with aripiprazole. 
Fits  
(Seizures) 
Fits (seizures) or convulsions have been reported in up to 1 in 100 
patients taking aripiprazole. Therefore, aripiprazole should be used 
with caution in patients with a history of seizures or conditions with 
lower seizure threshold (e.g., Alzheimer dementia), which may be 
more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 
High blood levels of glucose 
Blood sugar fluctuation and high blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) have 
(sugar) 
been reported with atypical antipsychotic agents, including 
(Hyperglycaemia and 
diabetes mellitus) 
aripiprazole. In clinical trials with aripiprazole, there were no 
significant differences in the incidence rates of hyperglycaemia-related 
adverse reactions (including diabetes) or in abnormal glycaemia 
laboratory values compared with placebo (a dummy treatment).  
Patients treated with any antipsychotic agents, including aripiprazole, 
should be observed for signs and symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such 
as excessive thirst, passing large amounts of urine, increased appetite 
and weakness) and patients with diabetes or with risk factors for 
diabetes should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose 
control. 
Suicidal behaviour 
Suicide or thoughts of suicide are common in patients with psychotic 
illnesses and mood disorders, and in some cases has been reported 
early after starting or switching antipsychotic therapy, including 
aripiprazole. Results of an epidemiological study suggested that there 
was no increased risk of suicidality with aripiprazole compared with 
other antipsychotics among adult patients with schizophrenia or 
bipolar disorder. Patients who are at high risk of suicidal behaviour 
should be closely monitored. 
Abnormal amount of lipids in 
Dyslipidemia has been reported in patients treated with atypical 
the blood  
antipsychotics, including aripiprazole. However, there were no 
(Dyslipidaemia) 
significant differences in the incidence rates of dyslipidaemia compared 
with placebo. 
Weight gain 
Weight gain is known to occur with certain antipsychotics; however it 
is also commonly seen in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar 
disorder due to other factors such as certain diseases or a poorly 
managed life-style. Weight gain has been reported post-marketing 
among patients prescribed aripiprazole. When seen, it is usually in 
those with significant risk factors such as history of diabetes, thyroid 
disorder or pituitary adenoma (benign tumour of the pituary gland, a 
gland located at the base of the brain). In clinical trials aripiprazole 
has not been shown to induce clinically relevant weight gain in adults. 
In clinical trials of adolescents with bipolar mania, aripiprazole has 
been shown to be associated with weight gain after 4 weeks of 
treatment. Weight gain should be monitored in adolescents with 
bipolar mania. If weight gain is clinically significant, dose reduction 
Page 3/6 
 
Risk 
What is known  
should be considered. 
Fatigue and somnolence[IA1] 
In the paediatric population, somnolence and fatigue (tiredness) were 
observed more frequently in patients with bipolar disorder compared 
with patients with schizophrenia. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Safety in pregnancy and 
There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of aripiprazole in 
breastfeeding 
pregnant women. Congenital anomalies have been reported; however, 
causal relationship with aripiprazole could not be established. Animal 
studies could not exclude potential developmental toxicity. Patients 
should be advised to notify their doctor if they become pregnant or 
intend to become pregnant during treatment with aripiprazole. Due to 
insufficient safety information in humans and concerns raised by 
animal reproductive studies, Aripiprazole Zentiva should not be used in 
pregnancy unless the expected benefit clearly justifies the potential 
risk to the fetus. 
Neonates exposed to antipsychotics (including aripiprazole) during the 
third trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including 
movement disorders and/or withdrawal symptoms that may vary in 
severity and duration following delivery. There have been reports of 
agitation, increased or reduced muscle strength, tremor, somnolence, 
respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. Consequently, newborns 
should be monitored carefully. 
Aripiprazole is excreted in human breast milk and patients should be 
advised not to breastfeed if they are taking aripiprazole. 
Safety in paediatric patients 
Aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients with schizophrenia 
below 15 years of age due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy. 
Younger patients with bipolar disorder are at increased risk of 
experiencing adverse events associated with aripiprazole. Therefore, 
aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients below 13 years of 
age for bipolar I disorder. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Aripiprazole Zentiva can be found on Aripiprazole Zentiva’s EPAR page. 
Page 4/6 
 
 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Aripiprazole 
Zentiva’s EPAR page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement 
between the marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Use in adolescents 13 years and older for bipolar I disorder with special attention to weight 
gain, movement disorders, somnolence and fatigue. 
Risk minimisation measure: Healthcare professional and patient education 
Objective and rationale: Patients and healthcare professionals to understand the possible risks of 
movement disorders, weight gain and increased drowsiness and fatigue in the paediatric population 
and the procedures related to the appropriate management of these risks to minimise their occurrence 
and severity. 
Description: Healthcare professionals and patients educational materials to be provided to prescribing 
physicians and patients or their caregivers to convey the following key messages regarding the safety 
profile of aripiprazole in adolescents aged 13 years and older with respect to movement disorders, 
weight gain, somnolence and fatigue in the treatment for up to 12 weeks of moderate to severe manic 
episodes in bipolar I disorder: 
• 
Treatment with aripiprazole has been associated with dose-related movement disorders such as 
akathisia, parkinsonism, and tardive dyskinesia. 
•  Weight gain has been reported post-marketing among patients prescribed aripiprazole. Significant 
risk factors for weight gain are: 
−  history of diabetes; 
− 
thyroid disorder;  
−  pituitary adenoma. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
There is a need for close monitoring and dosage adjustment if signs and symptoms of movement 
disorders and clinically significant weight gain appear in a patient taking Aripiprazole Zentiva. 
In the paediatric population, somnolence and fatigue were observed more frequently in patients 
with bipolar disorder compared with patients with schizophrenia. 
The indicated age range is 13–17 years and aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients 
below 13 years of age due to safety concerns. 
There is a greater potential for occurrence of adverse events with doses higher than 10 mg/day. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
None. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
Page 5/6 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 05-2015. 
Page 6/6 
 
