EMA/634874/2015 
EMEA/H/C/004021 
EPAR summary for the public 
Aripiprazole Accord 
aripiprazole 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Aripiprazole Accord. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Aripiprazole Accord. 
For practical information about using Aripiprazole Accord, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Aripiprazole Accord and what is it used for? 
Aripiprazole Accord is a medicine used in patients with the following mental illnesses: 
 
schizophrenia, a mental illness with a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and 
speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions 
(false beliefs). Aripiprazole Accord is used in patients aged 15 years or over; 
 
bipolar I disorder, a mental illness in which patients have manic episodes (periods of abnormally 
high mood), alternating with periods of normal mood. They may also have episodes of depression. 
Aripiprazole Accord is used in adults to treat moderate to severe manic episodes and to prevent 
new manic episodes in adults who have responded to the medicine in the past. Aripiprazole Accord 
is also used for up to 12 weeks to treat moderate to severe manic episodes in patients aged 13 
years or over. 
Aripiprazole Accord contains the active substance aripiprazole and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Aripiprazole Accord is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union 
(EU) called Abilify. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Aripiprazole Accord used? 
Aripiprazole Accord is available as tablets (5, 10, 15 and 30 mg) and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
For schizophrenia, the recommended starting dose is 10 or 15 mg per day in adults, followed by a 
‘maintenance’ dose of 15 mg once a day. In patients aged between 15 and 17 years, the starting dose 
is 2 mg a day (using an aripiprazole product available in liquid form), which is gradually increased to 
the recommended dose of 10 mg once a day. 
For treating manic episodes in bipolar disorder, the recommended starting dose in adults is 15 mg 
once a day, either on its own or in combination with other medicines. To prevent manic episodes in 
adults, the same dose should be continued. 
For treating manic episodes in patients aged between 13 and 17 years, the starting dose is 2 mg a day 
(using an aripiprazole product available in liquid form), which is gradually increased to the 
recommended dose of 10 mg once a day. Treatment must not last longer than 12 weeks. 
The dose should be adjusted in patients who are taking other medicines that affect the way 
Aripiprazole Accord is broken down in the body. For further information, see the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Aripiprazole Accord work? 
The active substance in Aripiprazole Accord, aripiprazole, is an antipsychotic medicine. Its exact 
mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several different receptors on the surface of nerve 
cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, 
chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. Aripiprazole is thought to act mainly 
by being a ‘partial agonist’ for the receptors for the neurotransmitters dopamine and 5-
hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin). This means that aripiprazole acts like dopamine and 5-
hydroxytryptamine by activating these receptors, but less strongly than the neurotransmitters. Since 
dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine are involved in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, aripiprazole 
helps to normalise the activity of the brain, reducing psychotic or manic symptoms and preventing 
them from returning. 
How has Aripiprazole Accord been studied? 
Because Aripiprazole Accord is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Abilify. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Aripiprazole Accord? 
Because Aripiprazole Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Aripiprazole Accord approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Aripiprazole Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Abilify. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Abilify, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk. The Committee recommended that Aripiprazole Accord be approved for use in the EU. 
Aripiprazole Accord  
EMA/634874/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Aripiprazole Accord? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Aripiprazole Accord is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Aripiprazole Accord, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients.   
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
In addition, the company that markets Aripiprazole Accord will provide educational materials to be 
supplied to patients or their caregivers and to doctors to explain the safe use of the medicine in 
patients between 13 and 17 years. 
Other information about Aripiprazole Accord 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Aripiprazole Accord on 16 November 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Aripiprazole Accord can be found on the 
Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment 
reports. For more information about treatment with Aripiprazole Accord, read the package leaflet (also 
part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Aripiprazole Accord  
EMA/634874/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
