EMA/16634/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Aripiprazole Accord (aripiprazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Aripiprazole Accord, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Aripiprazole Accord is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Aripiprazole Accord, which can be found on Aripiprazole Accord’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Aripiprazole Accord is a medicine used for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder. 
Schizophrenia is a mental illness with a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and 
speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions 
(false beliefs) that typically appear in adulthood. Men and women are affected equally though 
symptoms appear slightly earlier in men than in women. It is estimated that there are 24 million 
people with schizophrenia worldwide. In Europe about 15 in every 100,000 people (0.015%) are newly 
diagnosed with schizophrenia each year, and it is thought that about 1 in every 100 people (1%) have 
the disease at any one time.  
Bipolar I disorder is a mental illness in which patients have manic episodes (periods of abnormally high 
mood), alternating with periods of normal mood. They may also have episodes of depression. Up to 
2.4% of people worldwide are affected with bipolar I disorder at some point in their life.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Aripiprazole Accord contains the active substance aripiprazole and is available as tablets (5, 10, 15 and 
30 mg). Aripiprazole Accord is a ‘generic’ medicine. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Abilify.  
The company carried out ‘bioequivalence’ studies to show that Aripiprazole Accord is bioequivalent to 
the reference medicine, Abilify. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of 
the active substance in the body. Because Aripiprazole Accord is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s.  
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of aripiprazole in pregnant and breastfeeding women. 
In addition, Aripiprazole Accord is not recommended for use in patients with schizophrenia below 15 
years of age due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy. 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Movement 
Patients on Aripiprazole Accord are at 
Consultation with the doctor before 
disorders 
including 
tardive 
dyskinesia 
(abnormal 
risk of developing movement disorders 
starting treatment regarding the 
(including tardive dyskinesia). There 
presence of involuntary, irregular muscle 
have been uncommon reports of tardive 
movements, especially in the face is 
dyskinesia in clinical trials lasting up to 
required. 
one year. The likelihood of tardive 
movements of 
dyskinesia becoming irreversible appears 
the tongue, 
to increase with treatment duration and 
face, arms, or 
the total cumulative dose. Less 
body)  
commonly, the condition develops after 
Aripiprazole should be prescribed for the 
shortest duration necessary to produce a 
satisfactory clinical response to minimize 
the occurrence of movement disorders. 
relatively brief treatment periods at low 
If signs and symptoms appear, dose 
doses. 
reduction or discontinuation should be 
considered. 
In clinical trials of aripiprazole with 
adolescents aged 13 years and older, 
akathisia (inability to sit still or remain 
motionless) and parkinsonism were 
observed especially with daily dose of 30 
mg. 
Life-threatening 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) 
Doctors should monitor patients for 
neurological 
is a potentially fatal condition associated 
symptoms, particularly early in the 
disorder called 
with antipsychotic medicines. In clinical 
course of treatment. 
neuroleptic 
trials, rare cases of NMS were reported 
malignant 
syndrome 
during treatment with aripiprazole. The 
symptoms may include fever, muscle 
stiffness, altered mental status, evidence 
of autonomic instability (irregular pulse 
or blood pressure), and acute kidney 
failure.  
Patients who experienced muscle 
stiffness with high fever, sweating, 
altered mental status, or very rapid or 
irregular heart beat should immediately 
seek advice from a doctor.  
If a patient develops signs and 
symptoms indicative of NMS, or presents 
with unexplained high fever without 
additional clinical manifestations of NMS, 
all antipsychotic medicines, including 
Aripiprazole Accord, must be 
discontinued. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Low blood pressure 
When standing up quickly, it may take a second or two for the body to make 
upon standing  
adjustments to constrict blood vessels and push blood up to the brain. If there 
(Postural or 
is a delay, then this time of relative low blood pressure (postural hypotension) 
may cause symptoms such as light headedness, falls and visual blurring. 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
orthostatic 
hypotension) 
Fits  
(Seizures) 
Postural hypotension has been reported with aripiprazole. 
Fits (seizures) or convulsions have been reported in up to 1 in 100 patients 
taking aripiprazole. Therefore, aripiprazole should be used with caution in 
patients with a history of seizures or conditions with lower seizure threshold 
(e.g., Alzheimer dementia), which may be more prevalent in patients 65 years 
or older. 
High blood levels of 
Blood sugar fluctuation and high blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) have been 
glucose (sugar) 
reported with atypical antipsychotic agents, including aripiprazole. In clinical 
(Hyperglycaemia and 
diabetes mellitus) 
trials with aripiprazole, there were no significant differences in the incidence 
rates of hyperglycaemia-related adverse reactions (including diabetes) or in 
abnormal glycaemia laboratory values compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment).  
Patients treated with any antipsychotic agents, including aripiprazole, should 
be observed for signs and symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as excessive 
thirst, passing large amounts of urine, increased appetite and weakness) and 
patients with diabetes or with risk factors for diabetes should be monitored 
regularly for worsening of glucose control. 
Suicidal behaviour 
Suicide or thoughts of suicide are common in patients with psychotic illnesses 
and mood disorders, and in some cases has been reported early after starting 
or switching of antipsychotic therapy, including aripiprazole. Results of an 
epidemiological study suggested that there was no increased risk of suicidality 
with aripiprazole compared with other antipsychotics among adult patients 
with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Patients who are at high risk of suicidal 
behaviour should be closely monitored. 
Abnormal amount of 
Dyslipidemia has been reported in patients treated with atypical 
lipids in the blood  
antipsychotics, including aripiprazole. However, there were no significant 
(Dyslipidaemia) 
differences in the incidence rates of dyslipidaemia compared with placebo. 
Weight gain 
Weight gain is known to occur with certain antipsychotics; however it is also 
commonly seen in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder due to 
other factors such as certain diseases or a poorly managed life-style. Weight 
gain has been reported post-marketing among patients prescribed 
aripiprazole. When seen, it is usually in those with significant risk factors such 
as history of diabetes, thyroid disorder or pituitary adenoma (benign tumour 
of the pituary gland, a gland located at the base of the brain). In clinical trials 
aripiprazole has not been shown to induce clinically relevant weight gain in 
adults. In clinical trials of adolescents with bipolar mania, aripiprazole has 
been shown to be associated with weight gain after 4 weeks of treatment. 
Weight gain should be monitored in adolescents with bipolar mania. If weight 
gain is clinically significant, dose reduction should be considered. 
Fatigue (tiredness) 
In children, somnolence and fatigue (tiredness) were observed more 
and somnolence 
frequently in patients with bipolar disorder compared with patients with 
schizophrenia. 
 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Safety in pregnancy 
There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of aripiprazole in pregnant 
and breastfeeding 
women. Congenital anomalies have been reported; however, causal 
relationship with aripiprazole could not be established. Animal studies could 
not exclude potential developmental toxicity. Patients should be advised to 
notify their doctor if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant 
during treatment with aripiprazole. Due to insufficient safety information in 
humans and concerns raised by animal reproductive studies, Aripiprazole 
Accord should not be used in pregnancy unless the expected benefit clearly 
justifies the potential risk to the fetus. 
Neonates exposed to antipsychotics (including aripiprazole) during the third 
trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including movement 
disorders and/or withdrawal symptoms that may vary in severity and duration 
following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, increased or reduced 
muscle strength, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding 
disorder. Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Aripiprazole is excreted in human breast milk and patients should be advised 
not to breastfeed if they are taking aripiprazole. 
Safety in paediatric 
Aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients with schizophrenia below 
patients (children) 
15 years of age due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy. 
Younger patients with bipolar disorder are at increased risk of experiencing 
adverse events associated with aripiprazole. Therefore, aripiprazole is not 
recommended for use in patients below 13 years of age for bipolar I disorder. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Aripiprazole Accord can be found on Aripiprazole Accord’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Aripiprazole 
Accord’s EPAR page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement 
between the marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
 
 
 
Use  in  adolescents  13  years  and  older  for  bipolar  I  disorder  with  special  attention  to  weight 
gain, movement disorders, somnolence and fatigue. 
Risk minimisation measure: Educational material for healthcare professionals (HCPs), 
patients and caregivers 
Objective  and  rationale:  Patients  and  healthcare  professionals  to  understand  the  possible  risks  of 
movement  disorders,  weight  gain  and  increased  drowsiness  and  fatigue  in  the  paediatric  population 
and the procedures related to the appropriate management of these risks to minimise their occurrence 
and severity. 
Description: Healthcare professionals and patients educational materials to be provided to prescribing 
physicians and patients or their caregivers to convey the following key messages regarding the safety 
profile  of  aripiprazole  in  adolescents  aged  13  years  and  older  with  respect  to  movement  disorders, 
weight gain, somnolence and fatigue in the treatment for up to 12 weeks of moderate to severe manic 
episodes in bipolar I disorder: 
 
Treatment  with  aripiprazole  has  been  associated  with  dose-related  movement  disorders  such  as 
akathisia, parkinsonism, and tardive dyskinesia. 
  Weight gain has been reported post-marketing among patients prescribed aripiprazole. Significant 
risk factors for weight gain are: 
  history of diabetes; 
 
thyroid disorder;  
  pituitary adenoma. 
 
There is a need for close monitoring and dosage adjustment if signs and symptoms of movement 
disorders and clinically significant weight gain appear in a patient taking Aripiprazole Accord. 
 
In  the  paediatric  population,  somnolence  and  fatigue  were  observed  more  frequently  in  patients 
with bipolar disorder compared with patients with schizophrenia. 
 
The  indicated  age  range  is  13–17  years  and  aripiprazole  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  patients 
below 13 years of age due to safety concerns. 
There is a greater potential for occurrence of adverse events with doses higher than 10 mg/day. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
None 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2015. 
 
 
