EMA/452169/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Aripiprazole Sandoz (aripiprazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Aripiprazole Sandoz, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Aripiprazole Sandoz is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Aripiprazole Sandoz, which can be found on Aripiprazole Sandoz’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Aripiprazole Sandoz is a medicine used for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder.  
Schizophrenia is a mental illness with a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and 
speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions 
(false beliefs) that typically appear in adulthood. Men and women are affected equally though 
symptoms appear slightly earlier in men than in women. It is estimated that there are 24 million 
people with schizophrenia worldwide. In Europe about 15 in every 100,000 people (0.015%) are newly 
diagnosed with schizophrenia each year, and it is thought that about 1 in every 100 people (1%) have 
the disease at any one time. 
Bipolar I disorder is a mental illness in which patients have manic episodes (periods of abnormally high 
mood), alternating with periods of normal mood. They may also have episodes of depression. Up to 
2.4% of people worldwide are affected with bipolar I disorder at some point in their life. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Aripiprazole Sandoz contains the active substance aripiprazole and is available as tablets (5, 10, 15, 20 
and 30 mg). Aripiprazole Sandoz is a ‘generic’ and a ‘hybrid’ medicine. This means that it is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU), but it contains aripiprazole at a 
new strength in addition to existing strengths: while the reference medicine, Abilify, is available as 5, 
10, 15 and 30 mg, Aripiprazole Sandoz is also available as 20 mg tablets.  
Because Aripiprazole Sandoz is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken 
as being the same as the reference medicine’s. The company carried out ‘bioequivalence’ studies to 
show that Aripiprazole Sandoz is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Abilify. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of aripiprazole in pregnant and breastfeeding women. 
In addition, Aripiprazole Sandoz is not recommended for use in patients with schizophrenia below 15 
years of age due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy.  
Page 1/6 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Movement 
Patients on Aripiprazole Sandoz are at risk 
Consultation with the doctor 
disorders including 
of developing movement disorders 
before starting treatment 
tardive dyskinesia 
(including tardive dyskinesia). There have 
regarding the presence of 
(abnormal 
been uncommon reports of tardive 
involuntary, irregular muscle 
movements of the 
dyskinesia in clinical trials lasting up to one 
movements, especially in the 
tongue, face, 
year. The likelihood of tardive dyskinesia 
face, is required. 
arms, or body) 
becoming irreversible appears to increase 
with treatment duration and the total 
cumulative dose. Less commonly, the 
condition develops after relatively brief 
treatment periods at low doses. 
Aripiprazole should be 
prescribed for the shortest 
duration necessary to produce a 
satisfactory clinical response to 
minimize the occurrence of 
In paediatric clinical trials of aripiprazole 
movement disorders. 
with adolescents aged 13 years and older, 
akathisia (inability to sit still or remain 
motionless) and parkinsonism were 
observed especially with daily doses of 30 
mg. 
If signs and symptoms appear, 
dose reduction or 
discontinuation should be 
considered. 
Life-threatening 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a 
Doctors should monitor patients 
neurological 
potentially fatal condition associated with 
for symptoms, particularly early 
disorder called 
antipsychotic medicines. In clinical trials, 
in the course of treatment. 
neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome 
rare cases of NMS were reported during 
treatment with aripiprazole. The symptoms 
may include fever, muscle stiffness, altered 
mental status, evidence of autonomic 
instability (irregular pulse or blood 
pressure), and acute kidney failure. 
Patients who experienced 
muscle stiffness with high fever, 
sweating, altered mental status, 
or very rapid or irregular heart 
beat should immediately seek 
advice from a doctor. 
If a patient develops signs and 
symptoms indicative of NMS, or 
presents with unexplained high 
fever without additional clinical 
manifestations of NMS, all 
antipsychotic medicines, 
including Aripiprazole Sandoz, 
must be discontinued. 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Fits (seizures) 
Fits (seizures) or convulsions have been reported in up to 1 in 100 
patients taking aripiprazole. Therefore, Aripiprazole Sandoz should 
be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures or 
conditions with lower seizure threshold (e.g., Alzheimer dementia), 
which may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 
High blood levels of glucose 
Blood sugar fluctuation and high blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) have 
(sugar) 
been reported with atypical antipsychotic agents, including 
(hyperglycaemia and 
diabetes mellitus) 
aripiprazole. In clinical trials with aripiprazole, there were no 
significant differences in the incidence rates of hyperglycaemia-
related adverse reactions (including diabetes) or in abnormal 
glycaemia laboratory values compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment).  
Patients treated with any antipsychotic agents, including 
aripiprazole, should be observed for signs and symptoms of 
hyperglycaemia (such as excessive thirst, passing large amounts of 
urine, increased appetite and weakness) and patients with diabetes 
or with risk factors for diabetes should be monitored regularly for 
worsening of glucose control. 
Suicide-related events 
Suicide or thoughts of suicide are common in patients with psychotic 
illnesses and mood disorders, and in some cases has been reported 
early after starting or switching of antipsychotic therapy, including 
aripiprazole. Results of an epidemiological study suggested that 
there was no increased risk of suicidality with aripiprazole compared 
with other antipsychotics among adult patients with schizophrenia or 
bipolar disorder. Patients who are at high risk of suicidal behaviour 
should be closely monitored. 
Low blood pressure upon 
When standing up quickly, it may take a second or two for the body 
standing  
to make adjustments to constrict blood vessels and push blood up to 
(orthostatic hypotension) 
the brain. If there is a delay, then this time of relative low blood 
pressure (postural hypotension) may cause symptoms such as light 
headedness, falls and visual blurring. Postural hypotension has been 
reported with aripiprazole. 
Abnormal amount of lipids 
Dyslipidaemia has been reported in patients treated with atypical 
in the blood 
antipsychotics, including aripiprazole. However, there were no 
(dyslipidaemia) 
significant differences in the incidence rates of dyslipidaemia 
compared with placebo. 
Weight gain 
Weight gain is known to occur with certain antipsychotics; however 
it is also commonly seen in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar 
disorder due to other factors such as certain diseases or a poorly 
managed life-style. Weight gain has been reported post-marketing 
among patients prescribed aripiprazole. When seen, it is usually in 
those with significant risk factors such as history of diabetes, thyroid 
disorder or pituitary adenoma (benign tumour of the pituitary gland, 
Page 3/6 
 
a gland located at the base of the brain). In clinical trials aripiprazole 
has not been shown to induce clinically relevant weight gain in 
adults. In clinical trials of adolescents with bipolar mania, 
aripiprazole has been shown to be associated with weight gain after 
4 weeks of treatment. Weight gain should be monitored in 
adolescents with bipolar mania. If weight gain is clinically significant, 
dose reduction should be considered. 
Sleepiness / tiredness 
In the paediatric population, somnolence and fatigue (tiredness) 
(somnolence / fatigue) 
were observed more frequently in patients with bipolar disorder 
compared with patients with schizophrenia. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known 
Safety in pregnancy and 
There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of aripiprazole in 
lactation  
pregnant women. Congenital anomalies have been reported; 
however, causal relationship with aripiprazole could not be 
established. Animal studies could not exclude potential 
developmental toxicity. Patients should be advised to notify their 
doctor if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during 
treatment with aripiprazole. Due to insufficient safety information in 
humans and concerns raised by animal reproductive studies, 
Aripiprazole Sandoz should not be used in pregnancy unless the 
expected benefit clearly justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Neonates exposed to antipsychotics (including aripiprazole) during 
the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions 
including movement disorders and/or withdrawal symptoms that 
may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have 
been reports of agitation, increased or reduced muscle strength, 
tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. 
Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Aripiprazole is excreted in human breast milk and patients should be 
advised not to breastfeed if they are taking aripiprazole. 
Safety in paediatrics 
Aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients with 
(children) 
schizophrenia below 15 years of age due to insufficient data on 
safety and efficacy. 
Younger patients with bipolar disorder are at increased risk of 
experiencing adverse events associated with aripiprazole. Therefore, 
aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients below 13 years 
of age for bipolar I disorder. 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Aripiprazole Sandoz can be found on Aripiprazole Sandoz’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Aripiprazole 
Sandoz’s EPAR page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement 
between the marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Use in adolescents 13 years and older for bipolar I disorder with special attention to weight 
gain, movement disorders, somnolence and fatigue. 
Risk minimization measure(s) 
Summary description of main additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational material for healthcare professionals (HCPs), patients and caregivers. 
Objective and rationale: Patients and healthcare professionals to understand the possible risks of 
movement disorders, weight gain and increased drowsiness and fatigue in the paediatric population 
and the procedures related to the appropriate management of these risks to minimise their 
occurrence and severity. 
Proposed action: 
Healthcare professionals and patients educational materials will be provided to prescribing 
physicians and patients or their caregivers to convey the following key messages regarding the 
safety profile of aripiprazole in adolescents aged 13 years and older with respect to movement 
disorders, weight gain, somnolence and fatigue in the treatment for up to 12 weeks of moderate to 
severe manic episodes in bipolar I disorder: 
• 
Treatment with aripiprazole has been associated with dose-related movement disorders such as 
akathisia, parkinsonism and tardive dyskinesia. 
•  Weight gain has been reported post-marketing among patients prescribed aripiprazole. 
Significant risk factors for weight gain are: 
−  history of diabetes; 
− 
thyroid disorder; 
−  pituitary adenoma. 
• 
• 
There is a need for close monitoring and dosage adjustment if signs and symptoms of 
movement disorders and clinically significant weight gain appear in a patient taking Aripiprazole 
Sandoz. 
In the paediatric population, somnolence and fatigue were observed more frequently in patients 
Page 5/6 
 
with bipolar disorder compared with patients with schizophrenia. 
• 
The indicated age range is 13–17 years and aripiprazole is not recommended for use in patients 
below 13 years of age due to safety concerns. 
There is a greater potential for occurrence of adverse events with doses higher than 10 mg/day. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
None. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
