Summary of risk management plan for Aripiprazole Mylan Pharma/ Aripiprazol Generics/ 
Aripiprazol Anova/ Aripiprazol Mylan/ ADEXYL (Aripiprazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Aripiprazole Mylan Pharma/Aripiprazol 
Generics/Aripiprazol Anova/ Aripiprazol Mylan/ADEXYL. The RMP details important risks of 
aripiprazole, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
aripiprazole's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Anova/Aripiprazol 
Aripiprazole  Mylan 
Mylan/ADEXYL summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
Generics/Aripiprazol 
Pharma/Aripiprazol 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Aripiprazole  Mylan  Pharma/  Aripiprazol  Generics/  Aripiprazol  Anova/  Aripiprazol  Mylan/ 
ADEXYL is authorised for: 
• 
• 
• 
the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and in adolescents aged 15 years and older 
the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder and for the prevention 
of a new manic episode in adults who experienced predominantly manic episodes and whose 
manic episodes responded to aripiprazole treatment 
the treatment up to 12 weeks of moderate to severe manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder in 
adolescents aged 13 years and older. 
It  contains  aripiprazole  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by  oral  route  of  administration, 
available in 5 mg/10 mg/15 mg/30 mg tablets and 1 mg / ml oral Solution. 
With  respect  to  the  centralized  procedure,  EMEA/H/C/003803,  further  information  about  the 
evaluation of Aripiprazole Mylan Pharma’s benefits can be found in Aripiprazole Mylan Pharma’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage.    
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks 
Important 
risks  of  Aripiprazole  Mylan  Pharma/  Aripiprazol  Generics/Aripiprazol 
Anova/Aripiprazol Mylan/ ADEXYL, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Aripiprazole Mylan Pharma/Aripiprazol 
Generics/ Aripiprazol Anova/Aripiprazol Mylan/ADEXYL is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks of  aripiprazole  are risks  that  need special  risk management activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered  to 
patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of aripiprazole. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.). 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Extrapyramidal  symptoms  including  tardive 
dyskinesia 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
aripiprazole. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for aripiprazole. 
 
 
 
