SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures  which 
have been finalised before 1 November 2004. For scientific information on procedures after this date 
please refer to module 8B.  
 Introduction 
Arixtra  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  Venous  Thromboembolic  Events  (VTE)  in  patients 
undergoing  major  orthopaedic  surgery  of  the  lower  limbs  (MOSLL)  such  as  hip  fracture  surgery 
(HFS), major knee surgery (MKS) or hip replacement surgery (HRS).  
The once-daily recommended dose is 2.5 mgadministered post-operatively by subcutaneous injection. 
In  patients  with  impaired  renal  function,  a  1.5  mg  dose  may  be  considered  and  in  severe  cases  is 
recommended (see "Removal of the contraindication in severe renal impairment" section). The initial 
dose  should  be  given  6  hours  following  surgical  closure  provided  that  haemostasis  has  been 
established. Timing of the first Arixtra injection requires strict adherence in special populations such 
as  patients  ≥75  years,  and/or  with  body  weight  <50  kg  and/or  with  moderate  to  severe  (CLcrea: 20-
50ml/min) renal impairment.  
Treatment  should  be  continued  until  the  risk  of  venous  thrombo-embolism  has  diminished,  usually 
until the patient is ambulant, at least 5 to 9 days after surgery. In HFS patients, prophylactic treatment 
can be extended a further 24 days (see “Extended prophylaxis” section).  
Arixtra should not be used in patients with very severe renal impairment (CLcrea < 20 ml/min).  
The active substance is fondaparinux sodium, which is the sodium salt of a sulphated pentasaccharide 
molecule.  In  contrast  to  its  animal  sourced  competitors  unfractionated  heparin  (UFH)  and  low 
molecular weight heparin (LMWH), fondaparinux is manufactured totally by chemical synthesis. 
Fondaparinux  is  a  synthetic  and  selective  inhibitor  of  activated  Factor  X (Xa).  The  antithrombotic 
activity  of  fondaparinux  is  the  result  of  antithrombin  III  (ATIII)  mediated  selective  inhibition  of 
Factor Xa.  By  binding  selectively  to  ATIII,  fondaparinux  potentiates  (about  300  times)  the  innate 
neutralisation  of  Factor  Xa  by  ATIII.  Neutralisation  of  Factor  Xa  interrupts  the  blood  coagulation 
cascade  and  inhibits  both  thrombin  formation  and  thrombus  development.  Fondaparinux  does  not 
inactivate thrombin (activated Factor II) and does not interact with platelet aggregation.  
At  the  2.5  mg  dose,  Arixtra  does  not  affect  routine  coagulation  tests  such  as  activated  partial 
thromboplastin  time  (aPTT),  activated  clotting  time  (ACT)  or  prothrombin  time  (PT)/International 
Normalised Ratio (INR) tests in plasma, or bleeding time. 
Fondaparinux does not bind to platelet factor 4 (PF4) and does not stimulate serotonin release in the 
presence of sera from patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopaenia.  
Several  other  medicinal  products  have  demonstrated  efficacy  for  preventing  acute  VTE  in  post-
surgical situations. Amongst these,  the  efficacy and  safety of heparins  (including  unfractionated and 
low molecular weight heparins) have been the most documented. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The  medicinal  product  is  presented  as  a  solution  for  injection,  2.5mg/0.5ml  or  1.5mg/0.3ml,  in  a 
prefilled  syringe  with  an  automatic  needle  protection  system.  The  formulation  consists  of  the  active 
ingredient  fondaparinux  sodium  dissolved  in  an  isotonic  solution  of  sodium  chloride  and  water  for 
injections (sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid are used as pH adjusters if needed).  
The primary container is a single dose syringe consisting of a glass barrel with a stainless steel needle 
and a rubber needle shield, and closed with a plunger stopper.  
1/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solutions with the same excipients but of different concentrations have been used during the clinical 
trials.  A  bioequivalence  study  comparing  high  and  low  concentrations  has  been  carried  out,  and  no 
significant difference has been observed. 
Active substance 
Fondaparinux sodium is a sulphated pentasaccharide obtained by total chemical synthesis. It is a white 
to  almost  white  hygroscopic  powderand  is  freely  soluble  in  water,  sodium  chloride  and  sodium 
hydroxide solutions, and practically insoluble in ethanol. Fondaparinux sodium in the solid state is not 
light-sensitive.  
The  Applicant  has  confirmed  that  there  is  no  TSE  risk  related  to  the  manufacture  of  the  active 
substance or the medicinal product. 
Active Substance Specification 
The specification includes relevant tests for identity assay, related impurities specific optical rotation, 
total  viable  microbial  count,  endotoxins,  appearance  of  solution,  pH,  heavy  metals,  water  content, 
residual  solvents,  etc.  all  performed  by  PhEur  methods  or  by  validated  in-house  methods  where 
appropriate. 
Data on 13 batches indicated satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the specification. 
Stability: 
In  addition  to  short-term  stress  studies  (including  photostability  studies),  long-term  data  were 
generated from six batches at 25°C/60%RH, 30°C/60%RH and 40°C/75%RH for 24, 12 and 6 months 
of  duration  respectively.  No  significant  degradation  was  seen  at  any  of  the  conditions  studied 
(25°C/60%RH,  30°C/60%RH  and  40°C/75%RH).  A  retest  period  of  two  years  was  accepted  at  the 
time of the authorisation. The retest period has been extended from two to three years further to the 
assessment of a type I variation. 
Other ingredients 
The  other  ingredients  of  the  formulation,  hydrochloric  acid,  sodium  hydroxide,  and  water  for 
injections all comply with PhEur monographs. There are no ingredients of animal origin.. 
Product development and finished product 
The aim of the development work has been to obtain an injectable sterile apyrogenic dosage form (for 
subcutaneous administration) of fondaparinux sodium. 
The same manufacturing process as the commercial one, except for the terminal sterilisation step, has 
been used during clinical trials. The drug substance is readily dissolved in sodium chloride and water. 
Compatibility  between  the  solution  and  the  manufacturing  equipment  has  been  demonstrated.  The 
documentation on product development is considered acceptable.  
The manufacturing process with in-process controls was described in detail and a flow chart provided. 
Both  strengths  are  manufactured  using  the  same  process;  the  only  diference  is  the  fill  volume.  The 
process comprises compounding, sterile filtration with nitrogen gas as a filtration aid, aseptic filling, 
stoppering, terminal sterilisation inspection, packaging and labelling. Appropriate in-process controls 
are performed. 
A  total  validation  plan  has  been  provided,  describing  the  confirmatory  validation  studies  for  the 
manufacturing process and in-process control tests.  
2/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Specification 
The product specification is essentially the same as the active substance specification, with additional 
tests  for  degradation  products  arising  from  the  manufacturing  process  and  storage  over  time.  In 
addition, product-related tests include particulate matter, extractable volume and sterility.  
Data on 14 batches indicate satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the specification. 
The development of analytical methods applied to the finished product is fully described; reference is 
made, where possible, to PhEur methods.  
Stability of the Product 
Arixtra 2.5 mg/0.5 ml 
Photostability studies have been carried out on two batches of the product. There is no evidence that 
the product is light sensitive and it can be concluded that the product is stable to intense light for 15 
days. 
The product was unaffected by drastic changes in temperature through temperature cycling studies. 
At  the  time  of  initial  submission,  long  term  and  accelerated  studies  under  ICH  conditions  had  been 
carried out on a large number of batches for up to 12 months. Updated stability data, up to 24 months 
from storage at 25°C/60%RH, and up to 24 months at 30°C/60%RH, were subsequently provided. A 
shelf life of two years was accepted.  As a consequence of a type I variation, the shelf life was later 
extended to 3 years. The storage conditions as defined in the SPC remained the same. 
Arixtra 1.5mg/03 ml 
Photostability studies have been performed in accordance with ICH recommendations (1.2 million lux 
hours during 24 hours) on one drug product batch. The results are consistent with those for the higher 
strength and show that the drug product is not sensitive to light and no restrictions are needed in the 
storage conditions with respect to light.  
Syringes  have  also  been  exposed  to  three  cycles  at  18°C/40°C  (at  least  48  h  at  each  of  the 
temperatures)  and  the  results  indicated  that  there  was  no  change  in  the  degradation  profile  or  in  the 
other parameters tested.  
Three batches have been placed on stability studies under ICH conditions. The obtained results are in 
agreement with those for the higher strength. As suggested by the results of the stability studies and 
based  on the fact that the only difference between the two strengths is the fill volume, the proposed 
shelf life for the lower strength product under the conditions specified in the SPC is acceptable. The 
stability studies for the applied lower strength will however continue for up to 36 months. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  notable  for  its  complicated  synthesis  and  the  problems  encountered  in  the 
detection  and  quantification  of  related  impurities  due  to  the  low  UV-absorbance  of  a  carbohydrate 
molecule  with  no  aromatic  residues.  Finished  product  manufacture  has  been  evaluated  in  depth, 
particularly with regard to the validation of the process. Product stability has been established on the 
basis of a large amount of data and comprehensive statistical analysis. Following a list of questions put 
to  the  applicant  and  an  assessment  of  the  responses  all  important  quality  issues  were  resolved.  The 
important quality characteristics of the active substance and product are well-defined and controlled, 
and the product is formulated, manufactured and controlled in a way that is characteristic of a solution 
for injection. 
3/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  number  of  minor  quality  issues  were  still  outstanding  at  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion,  and  the 
applicant provided a letter of commitments to resolve these within a given timeframe All but one have 
already  been  resolved  and  theMAH  has  planned  to  submit  a  type  I  variation  by  the  end  of  2003  to 
resolve the last commitment. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  primary  pharmacological  in  vitro  profile  of  fondaparinux  consisted  of  investigations  on  ATIII 
affinity,  effects  on  activity  and  generation  of  FXa,  FIIa,  FIXa  and  FVIIa  activity,  and  effects  on 
platelet aggregation and coagulation time (APTT and PT). Unfractionated heparin (UFH) was used as 
reference (comparison based on weight) in the studies except for the ATIII affinity experiments, while 
no  comparison  was  made  with  LMWH.  The  studies  were  conducted  with  buffer  systems  (human 
ATIII) and with human plasma. On a weight basis and under the study conditions used, fondaparinux 
was more potent than UFH in the inhibition of FXa, FIXa and FVIIa and less potent in the inhibition 
of FIIa. Fondaparinux was equally or less potent than UFH in inhibiting the generation of the activated 
coagulation factors, and relatively less potent in aggregating platelets or prolonging coagulation time.  
The short-term effect (≤ 5 min) of intravenously administered fondaparinux was studied in four pivotal 
experimental animal  models for preventive venous antithrombotic activity (rat, mouse, rabbit), some 
in  combination  with  experimental  bleeding  (rat  and  mouse).  Fondaparinux  inhibited  thrombus 
formation dose-dependently up to a maximum lower than that seen with heparin (60-75 versus 100%). 
The reported potency (ED50) varied (up to 50 fold) with the animal model used 
In venous and arterial models of thrombosis where fondaparinux was active and where time-response 
relationships could be studied, there was a clear association between antithrombotic activity and AT 
III-mediated  inhibition  of  factor  Xa.  Fondaparinux  was  2-4  to  30  fold  less  potent  than  heparin  on  a 
weight basis, depending on the  model  used. In one of the venous models, LMWH (enoxaparin) was 
less potent than both fondaparinux and heparin. Significantly higher levels of anti-FXa activity were 
needed of fondaparinux efficacy compared with UFH. 
Other  data  showed  that  fondaparinux  had  similar  antithrombotic  activity  after  IV  and  SC 
administration,  if  thrombosis  was  induced  at  time-points  (5-90  min)  of  similar  plasma  anti-FXa 
activities.  
The  concomitant  experimental  bleeding  data  suggested  both  favourable  and  unfavourable 
efficacy/bleeding ratios for fondaparinux compared with UFH, depending on the experimental model 
used. Pig and the primate Macaca mulatta have been considered as useful preclinical models for the 
pharmacological  evaluation  of  heparins.  However,  no  evaluations  were  made  in  these  species. 
Fondaparinux potentiated bleeding in combination with the platelet antiaggregatory drug clopidogrel 
or  with  dicumoxane.  The  antithrombotic  activity  and  the  bleeding  complications  of  fondaparinux  in 
man are discussed in the clinical section. The haemorrhagic effect of fondaparinux was neutralised by 
protamine sulphate in animals, but only at high, saturated and non-relevant exposure of fondaparinux. 
The potential for prothrombotic activity at treatment cessation was not investigated in animals. 
The  safety  pharmacology  studies  addressing  potential  effects  on  CNS,  fluid  balance,  GI  tract, 
respiration,  haematology,  CV  (+in  vitro)  and  haemodynamic  status,  and  the  special  studies 
investigating  effects  related  to  heparin-induced  thrombocytopenia  (HIT)  antibodies  and  lipase 
induction, showed no untoward findings.  
Pharmacokinetics 
At  lower  SC  exposures  (up  to  about  0.5  mg/kg)  fondaparinux  showed  high  bioavailability,  linear 
pharmacokinetics  and  was  highly  and  almost  completely  bound  to  the  target  ATIII  in  plasma.  At 
higher  and  ATIII-saturating  exposure  (0.4  to  10  mg/kg),  the  bioavailability  decreased,  the 
pharmacokinetics  became  non-linear,  the  plasma  protein  binding  decreased  and  the  clearance 
increased with the dose. The lack of dose-proportionality in the higher dose range was related to the 
4/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed increase in clearance, which, in turn, was considered to be due to increased free fraction of 
fondaparinux,  resulting  from  saturation  of  plasma  protein  (e.g.  ATIII).  The  systemic  exposure  to 
fondaparinux in rat and monkey significantly increased following repeated administration, similarly to 
what was observed in man. At upper non-saturating exposure (0.4 mg/kg), drug-related radioactivity 
in rats receiving [35S]-fondaparinux was detected in many specimensfondaparinux. The samples with 
the  longest  terminal  half-lives  were  Harder’s  gland,  liver,  eye  (vitreous  humor),  bone  marrow  and 
kidneys with 10-20 h, and cartilage with >40 h. Retention of drug-related radioactivity was considered 
to take place in kidney cortex and cartilage. Drug-related radioactivity was also detected in rat foetus 
and in breast milk. No radioactive metabolites could be detected in body fluids (blood and urine) or in 
in  vitro  tests  for  potential  liver  metabolism  after  exposure  to  [35S]-fondaparinux  when  assayed  with 
HPLC.  Evidence  of  desulphation  metabolism  was  detected  in  blood,  urine,  bile  and  hepatocytes  by 
2-ions. Urine secretion data in rat indicated some activity-reducing 
means of the detection of [35S]-SO4 
metabolism.  
The elimination of fondaparinux from the circulation was significantly faster in rat, rabbit and monkey 
compared  with  man.  The  terminal  half-life  did  not  change  with  dose  in  the  animals.  Drug-related 
radioactivity was mainly excreted via urine, whereas the faecal excretion was low (rat) or negligible 
(monkey). 
Toxicology 
A  large  number  of  studies  were  performed  in  Sprague  Dawley  and  Wistar  rats  and  in  Cynomolgus 
monkeys  with  maximal  treatment  duration  of  3  months.  The  studies  were  generally  adequately 
performed  but  inclusion  of  a  comparator  like  a  UFH  or  a  LMWH  would  have  been  useful  in  the 
outcome  assessment.  At  10  mg/kg/day,  the  exposure  ratios  were  approximately  5  (rat)  and  16 
(monkey), compared with the intended clinical exposure.  
A single dose of fondaparinux was well tolerated in mouse, rat and monkey at doses up to 40 mg/kg. 
All  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  with  doses  of  0.4,  2.0  and  10.0  mg/kg/day 
(approximately  12,  60  and  300  times  the  proposed  therapeutic  dose).  Few  non-haemorrhage  related 
effects  were  observed.  The  true  toxicity  limits  of  fondaparinux  are  clearly  beyond  the  chosen  doses 
and probably differ for different animal species and treatment duration. Supporting arguments for dose 
selection were provided, including dose limiting effects such as adverse haemorrhagic events (AHE) 
(monkey)  and  saturable  plasma  protein  binding  (mainly  rat).  Thus,  a  significant  increase  in  dose 
would be required to achieve a moderate increase in total exposure. This would lead to an increase of 
the free fraction that would be subject to a fast renal clearance.  
Rat:  Haemorrhagic,  not  fully  dose-related  changes  were  localised  mainly  to  the  injection  sites  and 
occasionally to the draining lymph nodes in the repeated dose toxicity studies. There were no major 
increases  in  other  haemorrhagic  adverse  events.  Reversible  slight  decreases  in  haemoglobin  levels, 
reticulocytosis  and  an  increase  of  urine  urobilinogen,  related  to  bleeding/haematoma-associated 
anaemia and erythropoiesis, were observed in some studies. Slight plasma electrolyte level variations 
were noted in the 2-week studies and also in the 3-month monkey study.  
Monkey: The incidences of injection site haemorrhages and other trauma-related haemorrhagic events 
were  increased  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  The  reversibility  of  these  findings  after  repeated 
administration of fondaparinux was assessed in one animal/sex from the control and high-dose groups 
in the 4-week study, which were followed after treatment. Histopathological treatment-related effects 
were  not  seen  in  the  kidney,  the  major  route  of  excretion,  or  in  the  liver.  There  were  no,  or  only 
isolated increases in transaminase activity. Large or very large haematomas with or without associated 
resolutive inflammation were observed at handling sites, blood puncture sites and self-inflicted trauma 
sites in some treated animals at all doses. Such AHE were associated with a regenerative anaemia.  
In  the  3-month  and  in  the  4-week  monkey  studies,  the  male  animals  displayed  changes  to  genital 
organs which were related to degree of maturity or to health deterioration.  
In  the  3-month  study,  a  dose-dependent  increase  in  absolute  (male)  and  relative  (male  and  female) 
pituitary weights was noted, while the male monkeys had a decrease in T3 hormone at the end of the 
5/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study. However, the observed variation was within the physiological range as compared to the 2- and 
4-week control monkeys. 
No analysis specific for bone tissue (e.g. serum bone specific alkaline phosphatase) or morphometric 
analysis  was  used,  but  conventional  total  alkaline  phosphatase  and  bone  histology  revealed  no 
negative effects on bone in the rat and monkey. 
Impurities During the impurity qualification, an increased incidence of retinal atrophy was observed in 
the treated rats in two 2-week studies. This was not considered to be due to impurities, but explained 
as a direct phototoxic effect produced by excessive exposure of incandescent light during the infusion 
procedure,  when,  to  favour  vasodilatation,  light  was  used  to  warm  the  animal.  This  warming 
procedure  was  performed  only  at  the  site  where  the  atrophies  were  found  and  yielded  energies  that 
were within the reported levels that may induce retinal atrophy. 
From a toxicological point of view, all impurities are considered qualified. 
Reproductive and development toxicity All reproduction toxicity studies were performed with doses up 
to  10  mg/kg.  In  the  rabbit  studies,  at  the  high-dose  level,  an  exposure  ratio  of  12.6  was  achieved 
compared  to  the  human.  Fondaparinux  did  not  show  any  major  effects  on  mating  performance  and 
fertility,  gestation  and  parturition,  lactation,  new-born  viability  and  growth,  F1  behaviour  and 
reproduction  and  F2  foetal  development.  An  increased  dose-dependent  preimplantation  loss  was 
observed  in  both  rabbit  studies.  This  was  explained  to  be  within  the  physiological  range  when 
comparing  in-house  and  external  historical  data.  Such  data  should  be  interpreted  with  caution  and 
concurrent  control  animals  are  considered  more  relevant.  Moreover,  a  pharmacological  effect  could 
not  be  excluded  since  one  action  of  sulphated  polysaccharides  is  to  inhibit  cellular  adhesion,  as 
described in a number of publications. The clinical relevance of this finding was not clear, but was a 
cause for concern. The inadequate exposure of the animals (half-life of fondaparinux in human is 17 
hours as compared to the 1-2 hours in rabbit) further strengthened this concern. However, data were 
re-calculated by the Applicant and does with high or low numbers of corpora lutea were excluded, as 
seems reasonable, since literature supports an increased loss in this population. This resulted in a non 
dose-related  response  in  preimplantation  losses.  Further,  the  Applicant  submitted  convincing 
arguments  that  no  effect  of  fondaparinux  was  likely  on  cell  adhesion  and  has  agreed  to  add 
information regarding a limited exposure in the SPC, section 4.6. 
Genotoxicity  The  mutagenic  potential  was  evaluated  in  a  battery  of  tests  including  bacterial  reverse 
gene  mutation (Ames) tests,  mouse lymphoma gene mutation tests, mammalian in vitro  DNA repair 
test,  human  lymphocytes  chromosome  aberration  tests  and  one  in  vivo  rat  micronucleus  test. 
Fondaparinux was not mutagenic or clastogenic.  
Carcinogenicity  No  studies  were  performed  since  the  intended  treatment  duration  in  humans  is  less 
than  one  month.  The  chemical  structure  of  fondaparinux  does  not  indicate  a  possible  carcinogenic 
potential.  
Local tolerance testing was performed during all single, repeated and reproduction toxicity studies. As 
expected, injection site haemorrhages, occasionally associated with an inflammatory infiltration, were 
noted.  
Immunotoxicity Fondaparinux did not induce any active or passive anaphylactic signs in guinea pigs or 
rats.  No  relevant  effects  were  seen  on  rat  bone  marrow  cellularity  or  monkey  T4,  T8,  NK  and  B 
peripheral  blood  lymphocyte  counts,  peripheral  blood  lymphoblast  transformation  tests  with  PHA, 
Con A and PWM, peripheral NK cells cytotoxicity test, mixed lymphocyte reaction and total plasma 
IgGs and IgMs levels. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental  Risk  Assessment  A  brief  evaluation  on  the  risk  of  use,  excretion  and 
disposal of fondaparinux has been conducted. No significant environmental effect is expected. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
6/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preclinical  data  reveal  no  special  risk  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity. Animal studies are insufficient with respect to 
effects on toxicity to reproduction because of limited exposure.  
This information is reflected in the approved Summary of Product Characteristics 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Fondaparinux  binds  to  human  ATIII  resulting  in  a  1:1  molar  complex  with  a  Kd  of  58  nM.  Plasma 
concentrations  of  4  to  8  mg/l  should  saturate  physiological  concentrations  of  ATIII  (2-4  µM). 
Circulating  anti-Xa  activity  was  proportional  to  fondaparinux  dose  after  single  or  repeated  q.d.  s.c. 
dosing  in  healthy  subjects  and  after  repeated  q.d.  s.c.dosing  (0.75  to  8  mg)  in  patients  undergoing 
major orthopaedic surgery.  
Fondaparinux  has  no  ATIII-mediated  anti-IIa  activity  except  at  concentrations  beyond  ATIII 
saturation, nor does it show significant anti-IIa activity through heparin cofactor II (HCII) activation. 
No circulating anti-IIa activity was detected after 0.7-18 mg s.c. or 2-16 mg i.v. Inhibition of thrombin 
generation  is  mediated  by  the  anti-Xa  activity.  Indirect  evidence  of  in  vivo  inhibition  of  thrombin 
generation was obtained by assessing thrombin-antithrombin complexes, prothrombin fragments 1+2 
and D-dimers in healthy volunteers, and in different patient groups.  
The reduction of thrombin generation also reduces the pro-coagulative feedback exerted by thrombin. 
This probably contributes to the minor inhibitory effects of fondaparinux on factor IXa and on factor 
X activation observed. 
Fondaparinux  does  not  alter  prothrombin  time  and  only  slightly  prolongs  aPTT  (maximal  mean 
prolongation  20%)  after  0.35-30  mg  s.c.,  and  2-20  mg  i.v.  The  aPTT  was  doubled  only  at  plasma 
concentrations above 73 mg/l, whereas it is doubled at 2.5 mg/l UFH. Activated clotting time (ACT) 
has been measured only in patients undergoing PTCA after fondaparinux 12 mg IV. Inconsistent ACT 
increases were observed 2 and 48 hours after dosing, but not at 24 hours. These changes were much 
smaller than after UFH in this indication. 
Unlike  UFH,  fondaparinux  does  not  interact  with  ADP  or  collagen-induced  platelet  aggregation  at 
concentrations  up  to  150  mg/l,  and  does  not  bind  PF4  or  stimulate  platelet  serotonin  release  in  the 
presence  of  sera  from  heparin-induced  thrombocytopenia  (HIT)  patients.  This  argues  against  a 
potential to induce HIT, which results from heparin binding to PF4 followed by antibody interactions 
and  platelet  activation.  Fondaparinux  showed  no  ex  vivo  effect  on  platelet  aggregation  induced  by 
ADP, thrombin, collagen, or arachidonic acid, and did not change in vivo platelet counts after single 
and repeated dosing. Fondaparinux does not prolong bleeding time up to daily doses of 18 mg s.c. or 
20 mg i.v.  
Single or repeated doses of fondaparinux did not affect the ATIII level, but a decrease in ATIII was 
observed in patients undergoing total hip replacement (THR). The decrease was not different between 
the fondaparinux and enoxaparin treated patients. 
One  issue  that  was  raised  during  the  assessment  was  whether  there  is  a  risk  that  the  fondaparinux 
concentrations  exceed  the  binding  capacity  of  ATIII  in  the  postoperative  phase.  The  mean  ATIII 
reductions seen postoperatively after orthopaedic surgery were 10-15% and they were independent of 
treatment  (fondaparinux  or  enoxaparin).  It  can  be  calculated  that  variations  in  ATIII  levels  within  a 
wide  range  affect  concentrations  of  bound  fondaparinux  only  to  a  small  extent.  The  changes  of 
unbound  fondaparinux  with  varying  ATIII  levels  can  be  expected  to  be  relatively  larger.  The 
concentrations of free fondaparinux that can be expected with the recommended dose, even with very 
low ATIII levels, are of no major safety concern according to the preclinical and clinical experience.  
7/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The small and transient aPTT prolongation after 10 mg sc fondaparinux was not affected by the co-
administration of aspirin (single oral 975 mg dose). The lack of interaction with warfarin on PT and 
aPTT  was  documented  by  a  single  cross-over  study 
involving  12  subjects.  Whether  a 
pharmacodynamic  interaction  between  fondaparinux  and  vitamin  K  antagonists  could  result  in  an 
unexpected  bleeding  tendency  was  discussed.  Based  on  clinical  experience  and  on  what  is  known 
about the pharmacodynamic interactions it was concluded that the expected bleeding tendency should 
not  be  significantly  different  with  the  combination  fondaparinux/warfarin  from  what  is  seen  with 
heparin/warfarin. 
Pharmacokinetics  
The human pharmacokinetics was evaluated in 27 clinical trials, including 6 Phase I studies in healthy 
subjects, 5 studies in special populations, 5 studies assessing specific drug interactions, and 8 studies 
in  patients  for  the  current  indication.  Generally,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  fondaparinux  were  well 
characterised.  The  plasma  and  urine  fondaparinux  concentrations  in  humans  were  assessed  by 
validated  biological  assays  (bioassays).  These  methods  utilised  the  ATIII-mediated  factor-Xa 
inhibitory  activity  of  the  drug  with  spectrophotometric  detection  of  a  specific  factor-Xa  substrate. 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  obtained  following  non-compartmental  and  compartmental 
(population) analysis. 
Fondaparinux was rapidly absorbed following s.c injection (2.5mg) and Cmax of 0.34 ± 0.04 mg/l was 
reached after 1.7 ± 0.4h in young healthy volunteers. The mean absolute bioavailability estimate was 
107%  (90%  CI:  102%,  112%).  The  volume  of  distribution  was  approximately  8.2  ±  1.1l  after  s.c 
injections  of  2.5mg.  Fondaparinux  is  highly  bound  to  ATIII  (97.0-98.6%)  and  in  vitro  studies  have 
shown  that  the  binding  becomes  saturated  at  concentrations  above  2  mg/l.  The  fondaparinux 
concentration-time  profile  is  described  by  a  bi-exponential  decline.  The  terminal  half-life  estimates 
varied between 13 and 21h and the CL/F ranged from 5.1 – 7.9 ml/min, with renal excretion being the 
major  elimination  pathway.  The  renal  CL  exceeds  the  filtration  CL  and,  thus,  it  is  postulated  that 
fondaparinux is actively secreted in the kidney. In healthy volunteers, steady-state was reached after 3-
4  days,  which  is  consistent  with  the  half-life  estimation.  The  accumulation  ratio  at  steady-state  was 
1.3.  The  exposure  is  decreased  non-proportionally  at  higher  doses,  due  to  saturation  of  protein 
binding, but the total concentrations are fairly linear within the therapeutic range. However, there are 
indications of saturability in vivo at lower concentrations than shown in in vitro studies. 
Similar  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  were  observed  for  the  healthy  elderly  and  the  patient 
populations. The inter-patient variability in CL/F and in V/F in the target population was 30-40% and 
20%,  respectively.  The  influence  of  various  covariates  was  assessed  in  the  population  analysis  and 
only  weight  was  subsequently  included  in  the  final  model  as  linearly  increasing  CL/F  by 
approximately  9.3%/10kg.  The  lower  plasma  clearance  leading  to  higher  plasma  levels  with 
decreasing body weight was associated with a trend to higher major bleeding rates in patients less than 
50  kg.  Although  highly  correlated  with  total  CL,  renal  function  was  not  detected  as  significantly 
explaining  the  inter-patient  variability  in  drug  levels.  The  influence  of  important  covariates  was 
evaluated on post-hoc estimates but the predictive capacity of the population model seems limited.  
Explanation was given in the August 2001 answers. 
In  a  single  dose  study,  impaired  renal  function  resulted  in  a  considerable  reduction  in  CL/F  (5-fold 
reduction in severe renal impairment), no change in distribution volume and, consequently, prolonged 
half-life.  In  Phase  III  trials,  average  CL/F  was  1.3-1.6  fold  lower  in  patients  with  mild  renal 
impairment and 1.6-2.3 fold lower in patients with moderate renal impairment, compared with patients 
with  normal  renal  function.  Arixtra  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  very  severe  renal  impairment 
(CLcrea<  20  ml/min)  and  the  use  of  a  lower  dose  is  recommended  in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment (CLcrea between 20 and 30 ml/min) and may be considered in patients with moderate renal 
impairment (CLcrea between 30 and 50 ml/min). No pharmacokinetic evaluation was performed with 
respect to hepatic impairment, since the contribution of hepatic elimination to the overall elimination 
was  assumed  to  be  limited,  which  is  acceptable.  Studies  in  elderly  patients  showed  an  expected 
correlation  between  age  and  CL/F  most  likely  explained  by  reduced  renal  function  in  the  elderly. 
8/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking  demographic differences into  account, the  pharmacokinetic profiles  were similar  in  men and 
women. 
The relation between plasma concentrations (Cmax) and VTE or major bleedings (MB) was evaluated 
in DRI2643 (dose range 0.75mg to 8mg). Patients with MB tended to have higher mean Cmaxss plasma 
concentration than patients without events, and patients with VTE tended to have lower mean Cmaxss 
plasma concentration than patients without events, confirming the dose-response data.  
There  was  a  consistent  trend  to  higher  MB  rate  with  increasing  degree  of  renal  impairment,  with 
increasing age, and with decreasing body weight. It was demonstrated that the incidence of MB was 
higher  in  patients  receiving  the  first  post-operative  dose  early  (<6  h  after  surgical  closure)  and  that 
incidence  of  MB  could  be  reduced  by  giving  the  first  dose  ≥6  h  after  dose.  The  difference  was 
especially evident in the “fragile” population (age ≥75 years and/or weight < 50 kg and/or Clcr <50 
ml/min). 
Interaction studies:  
From  in  vitro  studies  in  human  microsomes  using  relevant  fondaparinux  concentrations,  it  was 
concluded  that  fondaparinux  did  not  significantly  inhibit  any  drug  metabolising  CYP-isoenzyme. 
Single  dose  warfarin  and  aspirin  and  steady-state  piroxicam  and  digoxin  did  not  influence  the 
fondaparinux  pharmacokinetics  at  steady-state.  The  effect  of  forced  diuresis  on  fondaparinux 
elimination was limited. However, the Arixtra dose (10 mg) in the interaction studies was higher than 
the  dose  recommended  for  the  present  indication.  Arixtra  neither  influenced  the  INR  activity  of 
warfarin,  nor  the  bleeding  time  under  acetyl  salicylic  acid  or  piroxicam  treatment.  Bleeding  risk  is 
increased  with  concomitant  administration  of  Arixtra  and  agents  that  may  enhance  the  risk  of 
hemorrhage. 
If  prophylactic  treatment  is  to  be  continued  with  heparin  or  LMWH,  the  first  injection  should,  as  a 
general rule, be given one day after the last Arixtra injection. If follow up treatment with a Vitamin K 
antagonist is required, treatment with fondaparinux should be continued until the target INR value has 
been reached. 
Bioequivalence studies: 
A bioequivalence study was performed between the marketing formulation fondaparinux injection, 2.5 
mg/0.5  ml  (Ref  2B2)  and  the  clinical  formulation  of  2.5mg/0.25  ml.  The  two  formulations  were 
considered bioequivalent.  
Discussion on pharmacokinetic aspects 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  fondaparinux  haves  been  well  characterised.  A  main  concern  during  the 
assessment was the posology in patients with renal impairment. The initial recommendation from the 
MAH  for  strong  adherence  to  the  dosing  schedule  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  was  accepted, 
whereas fondaparinux was contraindicated in patients with severe impairment (Clcr <30 ml/min). The 
dosing recommendations  for renally impaired patients have subsequently  been revised following the 
adoption of a line extension to introduce a lower 1.5 mg dose (see "Removal of the contraindication in 
patients with severe renal impairment"). 
Clinical efficacy in MOSLL 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical 
principles. 
Dose response studies 
The two dose-ranging studies of prophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery are summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1 
Title,  Country  of  co-
centre, 
ordinating 
Type of surgery 
Doses given of fondaparinux  
Comparator 
9/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number  of 
centres 
and  of  Randomized 
patients 
DRI2643 
Canada,  
70 centres 
N=950 
95001 
USA 
19 centres 
N=318 
Total hip replacement (THR)  
Double blind 
Assessor blind 
Total knee replacement 
(TKR)  
Open 
Assessor blind  
Efficacy assessment 
0.75, 1.5, 3, 6, 8 mg s.c.  
started 6 ± 2 h postoperatively 
Comparator: 
Enoxaparin 30mg x 2  
Venography day 5-10 
0.75, 1.5, 3, 6, 8 mg s.c. 
started 6 ± 2 h postoperatively  
noncontrolled 
Venography day 5-10 
The number of patients with DVT found at the venographic assessment is given in tables 2 and 3.   
Table 2  -Number  (%)  of  Patients  with  any  DVT,  any  Proximal  DVT,  and  Distal  only  DVT 
During the Treatment Period in DRI2643 
FONDAPARINUX 
Enoxaparin 
DVT 
0.75 mg 
1.5 mg 
3.0 mg 
6.0 mg 
8.0 mg 
(N = 102) 
(N = 101) 
(N = 101) 
(N = 44) 
(N = 22) 
(N = 150) 
Any DVT 
n (%) 
11 (10.8)   6 (5.9) 
2 (2.0)   
2 (4.5)   
0 (0.0)    14 (9.3)   
proximal 
n (%) 
3 (2.9)   
5 (5.0)   
1 (1.0)   
1 (2.3)   
0 (0.0)    5 (3.3)   
Any 
DVT 
Distal only DVT  n (%) 
 8 (7.8) 
 1 (1.0) 
 1 (1.0) 
 1 (2.3) 
 0 (0.0)   
 9 (6.0) 
Table 3  -  Number  (%)  of  Patients  with  any  DVT,  any  Proximal  DVT,  and  Distal  only  DVT 
During the Treatment Period in 95001  
FONDAPARINUX 
DVT 
0.75 mg o.d. 
1.5 mg o.d. 
3.0 mg o.d. 
6.0 mg o.d. 
8.0 mg o.d. 
(N = 22) 
(N = 44) 
(N = 44) 
(N = 18) 
(N = 13) 
Any DVT 
n (%) 
 13 (59.1)  
 15 (34.1) 
 6 (13.6) 
 2 (11.1) 
 2 (15.4)   
Any proximal DVT  n (%) 
 1 (4.5) 
 2 (4.5) 
 0 (0.0) 
 1 (5.6) 
 0 (0.0) 
Distal only DVT 
n (%) 
 12 (54.5) 
 13 (29.5) 
 6 (13.6) 
 1 (5.6) 
 2 (15.4) 
The  number  of  MB  is  given  in  Table  4.  An  adjudication  committee  blindly  classified  the  bleeding 
reports.  The  definition  of  MB  was  essentially  the  same  as  used  in  the  phase  III  studies.  Due  to 
increased bleeding the study arms of 6 and 8 mg were discontinued prematurely. 
10/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 4 - Number (%) of Patients Experiencing a Bleeding Event and/or With Bleeding-Related 
Criteria During the Treatment Period by fondaparinux Dose - Dose-Ranging Studies (DRI2643 
and 95001) 
FONDAPARINUX 
Patients With 
0.75 mg  
1.5 mg 
3 mg 
6 mg 
8 mg 
All Dose Ranging Studies 
(N = 238) 
Bleeding event  Major bleeding   1 (0.4%) 
(N = 279) 
2 (0.7%) 
(N = 265) 
11 (4.2%) 
(N = 121) 
18 (14.9%)  12 (14.0%) 
(N = 86) 
Minor  bleeding 
only  
Any bleeding 
4 (1.7%) 
7 (2.5%) 
12 (4.5%) 
7 (5.8%)   
3 (3.5%)   
5 (2.1%) 
9 (3.2%) 
23 (8.7%) 
25 (20.7%)  15 (17.4%) 
Bleeding-related 
criteria 
Re-operation 
due to bleeding 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.8%)  
3 (2.5%)   
3 (3.5%)   
Transfused 
patients 
97 (40.8%)   117 
(41.9%) 
127 
(47.9%)  
66 (54.5%)  53 (61.6%) 
The results demonstrated a dose-response relation for DVT as well as for bleeding events. Based on 
the  evaluation  of  the  dose-response  curves,  the  dose  (2.5  mg)  chosen  for  further  evaluation  in  the 
phase III studies was considered reasonable. 
Main studies (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials) 
Four  pivotal  phase  III  studies  were  designed  to  show  superior  efficacy  of  fondaparinux  over 
enoxaparin for prophylaxis in patients undergoing MOSLL.  
The four main studies are summarised in Table 6. 
Table 6. Pivotal studies in MOSLL 
Type of surgery 
Title 
63118 
Ephesus 
EFC2442 
Pentathlon 2000 
EFC2698 
Penthifra 
Total  hip  replacement 
(THR)  
Total  hip  replacement 
(THR) 
Hip  fracture  surgery 
(HFS) 
Comparator, 
Timing 
of randomisation 
Enoxap. 40 mgx1 
Preoperative 
Enoxap. 30 mgx2 
Postoperative 
Enoxap. 40 mgx1 
Preoperative 
095-002 
Pentamaks 
Major  knee 
(MKS) 
surgery 
Enoxap. 30 mgx2 
Postoperative 
patients 
of 
Number 
randomised 
fondaparinux/enoxaparin 
1155/1154 
1138/1137 
849/862 
526/523 
All  studies  were  standardised  for  inclusion/exclusion  criteria,  dosing  schedules  (apart  from  the  two 
different enoxaparin regimens  used, see  below), dose of fondaparinux (2.5 mg  o.d., s.c), duration of 
treatment (5-9 days), efficacy end-point definitions and safety end-point definitions. 
Enoxaparin  was  administered  according  to  2  different  regimens,  the  once-daily  40  mg  regimen 
authorised in the European countries, and the twice-daily 30 mg regimen authorised in North America. 
The base-line characteristics of the patients in the different treatment groups were well matched. The 
population  studied  can  be  regarded  as  representative  of  the  typical  clinical  population  in  the 
indications  applied  for  with  respect  to  age,  concomitant  diseases  and  other  demographic  factors 
including known risk-factors for VTE. Some of the exclusion criteria are listed below 
11/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
age less than 18 years  
serum creatinine level over 180 µmol/l (2.0 mg/dl) 
• 
• 
•  known bleeding tendency 
• 
• 
•  more than 24 hours delay between trauma and hospital admission (this exclusion criteria refers to 
recent stroke 
thrombocytopenia or a history of thrombocytopenia (<100 x 109/l) 
Penthifra only)  
According  to the study protocol every patient was to undergo a  bilateral venography between day  5 
(day 1=the day of surgery) and the end of the treatment period (by day 11), if a suspected symptomatic 
VTE  was  not  confirmed  first.  An  independent  committee  made  a  blinded  assessment  of  all 
venographies and other objective tests. 
The overall ratio of evaluable patients, i.e. randomised patients that had undergone surgery, treatment 
and an evaluable venogram was 73% with a slight variation between studies (69-79%). The fraction of 
patients  who  had  a  venography  performed  can  be  considered  to  be  acceptable  in  all  the  phase  III 
studies. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  rate  of  adjudicated  VTE  up  to  day  11,  defined  as 
symptomatic/asymptomatic  DVT  and/or  pulmonary  embolism  (PE)  documented  by  objective  tests. 
The variables constituting the primary efficacy endpoint can be divided into asymptomatic proximal 
DVT, asymptomatic distal DVT and symptomatic VTE. 
The results for the primary efficacy endpoint are presented in Table 7. 
Table 7. Primary efficacy endpoint (incidence of asymptomatic/symptomatic DVT and/or PE). 
Study, surgery 
FONDAPARINUX 
ENOXAPARIN 
for 
Ephesus, THR 
Pentathlon 2000, THR 
Penthifra, HFS 
Pentamaks, MKS 
37/908 (4.1%) 
48/787 (6.1%) 
52/626 (8.3%) 
45/361 (12.5%) 
85/919 (9.2%) 
66/797 (8.3%) 
119/624 (19.1%) 
101/363 (27.8%) 
95%  CI 
diff. (%) 
-8.1;-2.7; 
-5.5;0.6 
-15.3;-6.6 
-22.3;-9.3; 
The  majority  of  end-point  events  were  distal  asymptomatic  DVT.  The  rate  of  proximal  DVT 
(thrombosis  engaging  the  venous  segments  above  the  trifurcation  of  the  calf)  up  to  day  11  was 
significantly reduced in the fondaparinux group in the Ephesus and Penthifra studies and there was a 
clear  trend  for  a  reduced  rate  also  in  the  Pentamaks  study.  In  the  Pentathlon  2000  study,  however, 
there was no difference in the rates of proximal thrombi between the two treatment groups. The rates 
of proximal DVT are given in Table 8.  
Table 8. The incidence of all proximal DVT.  
Study, surgery 
FONDAPARINUX 
Ephesus, THR 
Pentathlon 2000, THR 
Penthifra, HFS 
6/922 (0.7%) 
14/816 (1.7%) 
6/650 (0.9%) 
Pentamaks, MKS 
9/368 (2.4%) 
ENOXAPARIN 
23/927 (2.5%) 
10/830 (1.2%) 
28/646 (4.3%) 
20/372 (5.4%) 
for 
95%  CI 
diff. in % 
-3.7;-0.5 
-1.0;2.6 
-6.1;-1.3; 
-7.6;0.4 
It can be concluded that fondaparinux 2.5 mg is more effective than the enoxaparin dosage regimens 
used for the prevention of venographic DVT in the early phase after lower limb orthopaedic surgery. 
The incidence of symptomatic VTE until day 11 was low and did not significantly differ between the 
treatment  groups,  with  22  (0.6%)  and  15  (0.4%)  cases  in  the  pooled  fondaparinux  and  enoxaparin 
treated groups, respectively. There was a trend for an increased accumulated rate of symptomatic VTE 
by  day  49  in  the  fondaparinux  group  as  compared  with  the  enoxaparin  group  [63/3603  (1.7%)  vs. 
12/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45/3608  (1.2%)].  Thus,  no  apparent  reduction  of  symptomatic  VTE  by  fondaparinux  treatment 
corresponding to the reduction of asymtomatic DVT could be seen.  
The CPMP accepted that a reasonable explanation for the nominal difference regarding incidence of 
symptomatic VTE was the following: About 6.2 % of the evaluable patients in the fondaparinux group 
received  curative  treatment  after  the  primary  endpoint  evaluation  (phlebography)  as  compared  with 
11.9  %  in  the  enoxaparin  group.  This  type  of  difference  would  be  expected  in  a  situation  when  the 
compared  products  have  different  activity  for  prevention  of  DVT  and  when  the  large  majority  of 
endpoint  events  consists  of  venographically  diagnosed,  asymptomatic  DVT,  which,  nevertheless, 
trigger  curative  treatment  in  a  large  proportion  of  patients.  The  bias  introduced  by  leaving  a  larger 
fraction of patients at some continuing risk for VTE in the fondaparinux group without anticoagulant 
therapy for the remainder of the study period would also be expected to result in a somewhat higher 
incidence of symptomatic VTE in the fondaparinux group after the venographic evaluation.   
For  patients  treated  with  fondaparinux  or  enoxaparin  but  not  evaluable  concerning  the  primary 
efficacy end-point (no  venography  performed),  the  incidences of  symptomatic  VTE between day 12 
and day 49 did not differ between treatment groups (fondaparinux 1.3%, enoxaparin 1.0%).  
The composite endpoint chosen is somewhat different from the endpoint recommended in the “Points 
to consider” document (CPMP/EWP/707/98) that includes all-cause mortality. However, the endpoint 
was chosen in accordance with scientific advice given by the CPMP in 1997. The overall conclusions 
regarding  efficacy  and  safety  remained  unchanged  after  a  reanalysis  made  retrospectively  and 
including all-cause mortality. 
An ITT analysis (a “best case scenario”) including all patients that went through surgery and had any 
study  medication  administered  gave  additional  support  for  the  conclusions  made  on  the  overall 
efficacy of fondaparinux. 
Clinical safety in MOSLL 
Bleeding 
Most bleedings occurred at the surgical sites. No fatal, CNS or retroperitoneal bleedings were reported 
in the fondaparinux 2.5 mg group. 
In  the  two  dose-ranging  studies  there  was  a  significant  dose  response  for  MB  as  well  as  for  all 
bleeding events and the percentage of transfused patients.  
An  adjudication  committee  blindly  classified  the  bleeding  reports  in  all  the  phase  III  studies.  Only 
studies  from  the  same  randomisation  type  were  pooled  for  integrated  analyses  since  intraoperative 
bleeding  was  included  only  in  the  studies  with  preoperative  randomisation.  The  frequencies  of 
bleedings are given in Table 9. 
Table 9. Number (%) of patients (Fondaparinux/ Enoxaparin) experiencing Bleedings up to day 
11. 
Preoperative randomisation* 
Study, surgery 
Ephesus, THR 
Penthifra, HFS 
Pooled Results 
* enoxaparin European dosing regimen = 40 mg q.d  
Minor bleedings only 
44(3.9%)/38(3.4%) 
34(4.1%)/18(2.1%) 
78(4.0%)/56(2.8%) 
Major Bleedings  
47(4.1%)/32(2.8%) 
18(2.2%)/19(2.3%) 
65(3.3%)/51(2.6%) 
N 
1140/1133 
831/842 
1971/1975 
N 
Postoperative randomisation* 
Study, surgery 
Pentathlon 2000, THR  1128/1129 
Pentamaks, MKS 
Pooled Results 
* enoxaparin North- American dosing regimen = 30 mg bid 
Major Bleedings 
20(1.8%)/11(1.0%) 
11(2.1%)/1(0.2%) 
31(1.9%)/12(0.7%) 
517/517 
1645/1646 
Minor bleedings only 
17(1.5%)/24(2.1%) 
14(2.7%)/19(3.7%) 
31(1.9%)/43(2.6%) 
13/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  overall  tendency,  although  not  significant,  for  higher  major  bleeding  rates  in  the  fondaparinux 
groups can be seen. Only a fraction of all minor bleedings can be expected to have been reported. 
The  percentage  of  patients  that  had  a  decrease  in  haemoglobin  concentrations  ≥  2  g/dl  during  the 
treatment period was higher in the fondaparinux treated group as compared with the enoxaparin group, 
both  in  studies  with  preoperative  randomisation  (22.0%  vs.16.0%)  and  postoperative  randomisation 
(55.5%  vs.  49.6%).  The  rates  of  bleedings  related  to  some  of  the  base-line  covariates  are  given  in 
Table 10. 
Table  10.  Number  (%)  of  Patients  Experiencing  Major  Bleeding  Events  From  First 
Fondaparinux Injection up to Day 11 by Baseline Covariates - All fondaparinux 2.5 mg Treated 
Patients in Orthopaedic Surgery Studies 
Type of surgery  
Total Hip Replacement 
Hip Fracture 
Total Knee Replacement   
Gender  
Male   
Female 
Age (years) 
Missing   
<65  
[65-75[   
≥75 
Weight (kg) [n (%)] 
Missing   
<50 
[50,100[  
≥100  
Creatinine clearance (mL/min) [n (%)]  
fondaparinux 2.5 mg 
(N = 3595 
51/2249 (2.3%) 
18/829 (2.2%) 
11/517 (2.1%) 
34/1429 (2.4%) 
46/2166 (2.1%) 
0/4 (0.0%) 
23/1253 (1.8%) 
24/1111 (2.2%) 
33/1227 (2.7%) 
1/37 (2.7%) 
7/130 (5.4%) 
63/3030 (2.1%) 
9/398 (2.3%) 
1/155 (0.6%) 
4/83 (4.8%) 
19/504 (3.8%) 
31/1288 (2.4%) 
25/1565 (1.6%) 
Missing   
<30 
[30,50[   
[50,80[   
≥80   
Timing of first post-operative active injection (hours) 
2/28 (7.1%) 
5/106 (4.7%) 
14/489 (2.9%) 
16/742 (2.2%) 
28/1403 (2.0%) 
13/609 (2.1%) 
0/107 (0.0%) 
0/23 (0.0%) 
2/88 (2.3%) 
Missing   
<4 
[4, 5] 
[5, 6] 
[6, 7] 
[7, 8] 
[8, 9] 
[9,10] 
>10 
NOTE: includes studies Pentathlon 2000, Ephesus, Penthifra and Pentamaks 
a  Per covariate, only non missing observations were taken into account 
The rate of MB was inversely related to renal function and a tendency for an inverse relation was also 
seen with body weight. It tended to increase with age. For all patients treated with fondaparinux 2.5 
mg in the phase III studies the incidence of MB was 2.8 % in a “fragile” population (age ≥75 years 
and/or weight < 50 kg and/or Clcr <50 ml/min) as compared to 1.9% for “non-fragile” patients.   
14/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More bleedings were seen in patients that got the first fondaparinux injection soon after surgery (< 6 
hours). Again, this tendency was more pronounced in patients of increased age, with low body-weight 
and  with  impaired  renal  function.  Strict  adherence  to  the  recommended  timing  of  the  first  Arixtra 
injection reduced the risk of MB among the “fragile” patients to the same level as “normal” patients. 
For patients treated according to the finally proposed regimen (first dose ≥ 6 hours following surgical 
closure in all types of major orthopedic surgeries of the lower limbs), the incidences of MB were 2.8% 
and 2.6% in the fondaparinux and enoxaparin 40 mg groups, respectively and this was reflected in the 
SPC section 5.1. 
Concerning  race  no  conclusions  were  possible  due  to  the  low  number  of  non-Caucasians  included. 
There was no effect of surgery type or of type of anaesthesia on MB rates. 
Other adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
The mortality rates were low and did not differ between the treatment groups (Table 11). 
Table 11. Number of deaths during treatment (until day 11) and study (until day 49) periods. 
Deaths until day 11 
Deaths until day 49 
Preoperative randomisation  
Postoperative randomisation 
Deaths due to bleeding, all studies  0 
2 
Deaths due to PE, all studies 
fondaparinux 
11/1971 
4/1645 
Enoxaparin 
18/2051 
3/1906 
1 
3 
fondaparinux 
40/1971 
8/1645 
0 
11 
Enoxaparin 
46/2051 
7/1906 
2 
11 
Apart  from the  deaths caused  by bleeding  or PE,  none  of the  deaths was suspected to be  associated 
with  the  treatment  by  the  investigators.  The  higher  mortality  rates  in  the  studies  with  preoperative 
randomisation are due to the higher mortality in the HFS study (Penthifra), including elderly, acutely 
ill patients.  
Concerning other adverse events such as surgical site reactions, myocardial infarctions, cardiac failure, 
cerebrovascular  disorders,  no  differences  between  treatment  groups  were  seen  in  the  4  phase  III 
studies. The rate and spectrum of reported adverse events not related to bleeding did not deviate from 
what could be expected. No specific suspected drug-related other adverse events were reported. 
Laboratory findings 
In the clinical studies the percentages of patients experiencing a decrease in platelet count to < 100 x 
109/l  were  not  related  to  fondaparinux  dose  and  were  similar  to  those  observed  in  the  enoxaparin 
group.  
In the orthopaedic surgery studies a slightly higher rate of patients developed positive ELISA tests in 
the preoperatively than the postoperatively randomised studied. No differences were seen between the 
treatment groups. The higher number of positive tests associated with positive serotonin release tests 
in the preoperatively randomised studies cannot be explained. The development of a positive test did 
not appear to be predictive of thrombocytopenia or of thrombotic event. 
No  thrombocytopenias  with  suspected  immunoallergic  pathophysiology  (HIT,  type  II)  were 
documented in the clinical development program. 
Taking in to account that 
• 
• 
fondaparinux lacks PF4 binding capacity  
fondaparinux did not elicit any 14C-serotonin release in the presence of sera from HIT patients and 
platelets from healthy subjects 
the risk of thrombocytopenia of immunoallergic origin (HIT type II) induced by fondaparinux can be 
expected  to  be  low  from  available  documentation.  However,  until  further  experience  is  gained,  a 
warning has been included in the SPC that fondaparinux should not be used in patients with a history 
of HIT type II. 
Thrombocytopenia  cases  will  be  carefully  monitored  and  reported  by  the  Marketing  Authorisation 
Holder in the Periodic Safety Update Reports. 
A  transitory  increase  in  transaminases  is  observed  during  treatment  with  heparins.  In  the  DVT 
treatment  study  (DRI2440)  no  significant  mean  increase  in  AST  or  ALT  was  observed  under 
15/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fondaparinux  in  contrast  to  dalteparin,  with  consistent  observations  of  larger  percentage  of  patients 
experiencing increases above the ULN. No increases were seen after fondaparinux in patients under-
going PTCA or hemodialysis (studies ACT2445, 63113). 
There  was  no  difference  in  transaminase  levels  between  fondaparinux  and  placebo  in  the  phase  I 
studies and no dose response in the phase II studies. As compared with the enoxaparin treated group in 
the  pooled  patient  material  in  orthopaedic  surgery  the  mean  increase  in  AST,  ALT  levels  was 
significantly less pronounced among the fondaparinux-treated patients and significantly fewer patients 
experienced elevations above ULN or 3xULN. The increases seen in the fondaparinux treated patients 
may  be  related  to  surgery  and  physiological  reactions  in  the  post-operative  phase  rather  than  to 
fondaparinux. 
Safety in special populations 
The rate of MB was inversely related to renal function and a tendency for an inverse relation was also 
seen with body weight. The rate of MB tended to be increased with age. 
The  safety  in  “fragile”  patients  (elderly,  low  body  weight,  impaired  renal  function)  was  a  concern. 
Bleeding  tendency  in  these  patients  may  to  a  large  extent  be  explained  by  co-morbid  factors,  but  it 
remains that, with the proposed posology, there will, inevitably, be accumulation of fondaparinux and 
exposure considerably in excess of that seen in patients with normal excretory capacity.  
By the strict adherence to the recommended timing of the first Arixtra injection, as emphasised by the 
applicant, the risk for MB may be reduced.  
Renal  failure  should  be  expected  to  be  associated  with  prolonged  exposure  to  higher  plasma 
concentrations of fondaparinux apart from the haemostatic disturbances caused by the kidney failure 
per  se.  Fondaparinux  concentrations  are  significantly  increased  in  severe  renal  impairment  (CLcr: 
<30ml/min), but also in moderate impairment (CLcr: 30-50ml/min).  
The  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  have  not  been  sufficiently 
characterised as severe renal impairment was an exclusion criterion in the Phase III studies: therefore 
fondaparinux  is  contraindicated  in  this  population  (this  contraindicaton  has  been  addressed  in  a 
subsequent  type  II  variation  –  see  "Removal  of  the  contraindication  in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment"). In patients with moderate renal impairment caution should be used when administering 
Arixtra.  It  is  emphasized  in  the  SPC  that  the  first  Arixtra  administration  should  not  be  given  earlier 
than 6 hours following surgical closure. The injection should not be given unless haemostasis has been 
established. 
As  shown  in  the  Figure  1,  the  influence  of  the  timing  of  the  first  dose  on  the  risk  of  MB  is  most 
apparent in a “fragile” population defined as patients >75 years old, <50 kg and/or CLcr <50 ml/min.  
It  can  be  concluded  that  within  the  fragile  population,  adherence  to  the  timing  of  the  first  post-
operative  dose  is  of  most  importance  with  respect  to  major  bleeding  risk.  Consistently,  all  major 
bleedings  among  the  83  fondaparinux  2.5  mg  patients  with  severe  renal  failure  (CLcr  <30  ml/min) 
(protocol  violators)  occurred  among  patients  whose  first  post-operative  dose  was  <6  hrs  following 
surgical closure (4/36). 
16/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
i
g
g
n
n
d
d
e
e
e
e
l
l
B
B
r
r
o
o
j
j
a
a
M
M
f
f
o
o
%
%
8
8
7
7
6
6
5
5
4
4
3
3
2
2
1
1
0
0
3/45
3/45
3/45
2/61
2/61
2/61
< 4
< 4
hours
hours
Fragile Patients :
Fragile Patients :
Fragile Patients :
age ≥75 years and/or 
age ≥75 years and/or 
age ≥75 years and/or 
body weight < 50 kg and/or 
body weight < 50 kg and/or 
body weight < 50 kg and/or 
CLcr <50 mL/min
CLcr <50 mL/min
CLcr <50 mL/min
9/182
9/182
9/182
Not Fragile
Not Fragile
Fragile
Fragile
8/290
8/290
8/290
11/526
11/526
11/526
5/307
5/307
5/307
8/452
8/452
8/452
17/877
17/877
17/877
9/398
9/398
9/398
4/211
4/211
4/211
[4,5[
[4,5[
[5,6[
[5,6[
[6,7[
[6,7[
[7,8]
[7,8]
]8,9]
]8,9]
]9,10]
]9,10]
0/76 0/31 0/16
0/76 0/31 0/16
0/76 0/31 0/16
0/7
0/7
0/7
Time of first post-operative injection
Time of first post-operative injection
Time of first post-operative injection
Time Of First Post OPerative Injection
Time Of First Post OPerative Injection
1/32
1/32
1/32
1/56
1/56
1/56
>10
>10
hours
hours
Figure  1.  Major  Bleeding  from  First 
Active Dose by Time of First Active Post-operative Dose and Fragileness -All Fondaparinux  2.5 mg 
Treated Patients 
Overall  conclusions,  benefit/risk  assessment  and  recommendation  for  the  use  of  Arixtra  in 
patients undergoing MOSLL 
Quality 
The  important  quality  characteristics  of  the  active  substance  and  product  are  well-defined  and 
controlled, and the product is formulated, manufactured and controlled in a way that is characteristic 
of a solution for injection. The specifications and batch analytical results indicate a consistent product 
and these in turn should guarantee a uniform clinical performance from batch to batch.  
There are no unresolved quality issues that have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
A  number  of  minor  quality  points  were  still  outstanding  at  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion,  and  the 
applicant provided a letter of undertaking to resolve them within a given timeframe. To date, all but 
one have been resolved. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  was  adequate  to  support  the  development  of  the  product  in  the 
sought therapeutic indication. There were no data generated by exposure in pregnant animals and this 
information is included in the SPC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  were  well  characterised  and  supportive  of  the  claimed  posology.  The 
elimination of fondaparinux is highly dependent on the renal function, which is reflected in the SPC as 
contraindication of fondaparinux in patients with very severe renal impairment (CLcrea < 20 ml /min).  
Efficacy 
Approximately 94% of the patients treated with fondaparinux, 2.5 mg/day, in the orthopaedic surgery 
studies  completed  treatment  according  to  the  protocol.  The  completion  rate  was  the  same  as  in  the 
pooled control group.  
As  expected  with  the  study  design  employed,  the  actually  demonstrated  benefit  on  thromboembolic 
events  is  mainly  restricted  to  a  decrease  in  the  incidence  of  venographic  thromboses  (proximal  and 
distal).  
There  is  scientific  evidence  beyond  reasonable  doubt  that  there  is  a  direct  relationship  between  the 
different  clinical  manifestations  of  venous  thromboembolic  disease.  A  relationship  between  distal, 
proximal  and  nonfatal/fatal  PE  is  accepted  and  it  is  considered  that  there  is  little  relevance  of  an 
endpoint  consisting  of  only  symptomatic  DVT  in  the  early  post-operative  phase.  The  composite 
endpoint recommended in the CPMP Points to Consider document also implies an acceptance of this 
concept. Therefore an indication text including ”prevention of VTE” was considered acceptable. 
17/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  dose,  dose  regimen  and  duration  of  treatment  have  been  substantiated  both  in  the  general 
population  and  in  the  fragile  patients  groups  (low  body  weight,  elderly,  moderate  and  severe  renal 
failure). The information is reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Guidance for patients that need prolonged prophylaxis (beyond 9 days) was discussed in depth by the 
CPMP.  Prolonged  prophylaxis,  beyond  9  days  after  surgery,  was  not  tested  in  the  pivotal  trials  of 
MOSLL  hitherto  assessed.  Thus,  a  benefit/risk  assessment  for  such  prolonged  treatment  with 
fondaparinux could not be made at the time of the initial MA. Therefore, guidance on how to switch to 
prophylaxis with heparin, LMW-heparin  or to treatment with a  vitamin K antagonist (VKA) in case 
follow-up  therapy  was  deemed  necessary  beyond  the  peri-operative  period  was  included  in  the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  This  guidance  has  subsequently  been  deleted  further  to  the 
assessment of the Penthifra Plus study data (see “prolonged prophylaxis” section) ., .  
Fondaparinux  did  not  affect  the  prothrombin  time  in  healthy  volunteers  also  given  warfarin  (study 
63108).    Warfarin  did  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  fondaparinux.  In  study  DRI2440  (dose 
ranging DVT treatment study) over 300 patients have been treated concomitantly with fondaparinux 
(doses 5, 7.5 or 10 mg) and oral anticoagulants. As compared with dalteparin and oral anticoagulants, 
the  same  time  of  combined  treatment  was  required  to  reach  therapeutic  INR  values.  There  was  no 
increased  bleeding  tendency  in  the  fondaparinux  group  as  compared  to  the  dalteparin  group.  In 
conclusion there is no  suggestion that fondaparinux  when  combined  with oral  anticoagulants should 
lead  to  a  higher  and  unexpected  bleeding  frequency  in  comparison  with  heparin  or  LMWH.  The 
information is included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Safety 
The three main areas of concern discussed by the CPMP were the bleeding risk (particularly in fragile 
populations),  the  potential  for  interaction  with  other  medicinal  products  used  in  prolonged 
prophylaxis, and the occurrence of thrombocytopenia. 
These points have  been  addressed with appropriate additional analyses of the phase II and  phase III 
extensive studies submitted. The SPC has been amended as necessary with contraindication of the use 
of Arixtra in very severe renal failure patients and introducing the necessary warning and precaution 
for  use  in  other  populations.  The  assessment  of  the  pharmacokinetic,  interaction  and  dose  response 
studies, as well as a specific pooled analysis of all patients treated with other medicinal products for 
prolonged  prophylaxis  during  the  Phase  III  program  has  provided  reassurance  that  there  are  no 
obvious indications of an unexpected synergistic effect on bleeding tendency following the combined 
treatment of fondaparinux and oral anticoagulants. 
The same incidence of thrombocytopenia was observed in the two treatment groups across the phase 
III studies. Taking into account that no documented cases of immunoallergic thrombocytopenia have 
been reported across the  whole  clinical  experience  accrued  so far  with  Arixtra, and  considering that 
fondaparinux lacks PF4 binding capacity, the risk of thrombocytopenia of immunoallergic origin (HIT 
type  II)  induced  by  fondaparinux  can  be  expected  to  be  low.  However,  the  CPMP  recommended  as 
follow-up  measure  that  until  further  experience  is  gathered,  thrombocytopenia  cases  be  carefully 
monitored and reported by the Marketing Authorisation Holder in the Periodic Safety Update Reports. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The Applicant has provided substantial evidence documenting the efficacy and safety of fondaparinux 
when  used  as  directed  in  the  Prevention  of  Venous  Thromboembolic  Events  (VTE)  in  patients 
undergoing major orthopaedic surgery of the lower limbs such as hip fracture, major knee surgery or 
hip replacement surgery. 
Appropriate  contra-indication  in  patients  with  very  severe  renal  failure,  recommendation  for  the 
duration  of  treatment  as  well  as  clarifications  and  undertaking  of  follow-up  on  the  cases  of 
thrombocytopenia  which  might  occur  during  treatment  with  fondaparinux  were  subjects  of  in-depth 
discussion with the applicant in the course of an oral explanation with the CPMP. 
18/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outstanding issues relevant to the complex manufacturing and quality control process of fondaparinux 
have  been  extensively  addressed  in  the  information  and  clarifications  provided  by  the  applicant.  A 
number  of  minor  quality  points  will  be  further  addressed  by  the  applicant  after  Marketing 
Authorisation is granted, with the generation of additional analytical data. 
The  over-all  benefit/risk  balance  for  Arixtra,  used  as  recommended  in  the  SPC,  is  considered  to  be 
favourable. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Arixtra  in  Prevention  of  Venous  Thromboembolic  Events  (VTE)  in 
patients  undergoing  major  orthopaedic  surgery  of  the  lower  limbs  such  as  hip  fracture,  major  knee 
surgery  or  hip  replacement  surgery  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
EXTENDED PROPHYLAXIS IN HIP FRACTURE SURGERY 
Rationale  
The request for extended prophylaxis is based on the results of the Penthifra Plus study (EFC4582) in 
patients undergoing Hip Fracture Surgery (HFS). No similar studies appear to have been performed in 
HFS  prior  to  this  pivotal  study  but  long  term  prophylaxis  experience  was  reported  with  LMWH  in 
HRS.  Indeed,  since  1996  at  least  6  placebo-controlled  studies  with  LMWHs  have  demonstrated  a 
reduction  of  venographically  detected  DVT  approximately  1  month  after  elective  HRS  if  prolonged 
prophylaxis (additional prophylaxis for approximately 3 weeks after the first post-operative week) is 
utilised.  In  summary,  the  results  from  these  6  studies  demonstrate  a  reduction  of  DVT 
(venographically detected and symptomatic) from 22.5% in the pooled placebo group to 8.5% in the 
LMWH group. Proximal DVTs are also reduced from 11.2 to 3.0% and symptomatic VTE from 4.4 to 
1.4%  in  the  placebo  and  LMWH  groups,  respectively.  Nevertheless,  prolonged  prophylaxis  with 
LMWH has not been generally accepted for routine use in patients undergoing HRS. The labelling in 
several  countries  does,  however,  allow  prolonged  prophylaxis  in  patients  deemed  to  suffer  from  an 
increased thrombotic risk.  
Penthifra plus Trial Design 
A  multicentre,  international,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  trial  of  fondaparinux  2.5 
mg qd for 21±2 days following an initial open-label prophylaxis of 7±1 days, for the prophylaxis of 
VTE  in  patients  undergoing  HFS.  Patients  without  evidence  of  symptomatic  VTE  or  disqualifying 
bleeding  during  the  initial  week  of  prophylaxis  and  without  study  exclusion  criteria  could  be 
randomised into the double-blind study.  
The primary efficacy outcome was the rate of VTE (defined as DVT detected by mandatory bilateral 
venography, or documented symptomatic DVT, or fatal/non-fatal PE) during the randomised, double-
blind extended prophylaxis period. The mandatory venography was to be performed at the end of the 
extended  prophylaxis  period  (Day  21±2).  The  same  composite  efficacy  and  safety  endpoints  and 
adjudication  (“Hamilton”)  used  in  all  confirmatory  studies  of  the  original  marketing  authorisation 
application  (MAA)  were  chosen,  facilitating  cross-study  comparisons.  The  evaluable  population  for 
the primary efficacy analysis was defined as all treated patients with a VTE assessment up to Day 24 
included. Patients were to be analysed in the group to which they were randomised. In order to explore 
possible  effects  of  a  missing  VTE  assessment  on  the  interpretation  of  the  efficacy  results,  the  same 
sensitivity  analyses  (best  case,  realistic  case  and  worst  case)  as  those  included  in  the  original  MAA 
were  specified  in  the  protocol.  The  safety  population  was  the  ‘as  treated’  population,  with  a  patient 
being  considered  in  the  fondaparinux  group  as  soon  as  (s)he  received  at  least  one  dose  after 
randomisation. The main safety analysis considered all events observed up to Day 25, i.e., 2 additional 
days after the end of treatment. 
19/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  sample  size  of  210  patients  per  group  was  estimated  assuming  a  rate  of  VTE  after  3  weeks  of 
extended thromboprophylaxis of 11.5%, a risk reduction of 50%, an expected incidence of VTE in the 
placebo  group  of 23% and  a power of 85%. Assuming  10%  of  patients would not  enter the double-
blind period  and 30%  would be non-evaluable for primary efficacy, the target number of patients in 
the pre-randomised period was 670 in order to reach a total of 600 randomised patients (300/group).  
Results  
A total of 737 patients were enrolled, 81 (11%) of which were not subsequently randomised into the 
extended  prophylaxis  study.  The  most  common  reasons  for  subsequent  non-randomisation  were:  39 
(S)AEs  (serious  adverse  event)  or  efficacy  failure  [including  5  investigator-identified  DVT/PE,  8 
bleedings and 34 (S)AE], and 42 neither efficacy failure nor (S)AE [including 11 withdrawn informed 
consents  and  31  other  exclusion  criteria/reasons].  The  exposure  of  patients  to  fondaparinux  before 
randomisation  was  7.0  ±  0.8  days  (mean  ±  SD).  Thus,  656  patients  were  randomised  to  either 
fondaparinux  or  placebo.  By  Day  21  ±  2  (end  of  randomised  double-blind  period)  428  patients 
(65.2%) were included in the primary efficacy analysis. The ‘as treated’ population and the evaluable 
population for efficacy were evenly distributed between the 2 treatment groups. 
The demographic characteristics of patients are consistent with those of the peri-operative HFS study 
(EFC2698) in the original MAA. As expected for patients randomised into HFS studies they tended to 
be  older,  lighter,  female,  and  the  incidence  of  impaired  kidney  function  tended  to  be  higher  than  in 
patients randomised into the studies of other types of MOSLL.  
Efficacy  
There  was  a  highly  significant  reduction  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  in  the  fondaparinux 
treatment arm as compared to the placebo group (Table 1). 
Table 1 - Summary of efficacy results and subsequent curative treatment -  
Patients [n/N (%)] evaluable for the relevant endpoint  
Efficacy Endpoint 
Fondaparinux 2.5 mg qd
Placebo 
VTE (Primary efficacy analysis) 
DVT 
Proximal DVT 
Symptomatic VTE 
Patients with curative treatment 
(primary efficacy population) 
3/208 (1.4) 
3/208 (1.4) 
2/221 (0.9) 
77/220 (35.0) 
74/218 (33.9) 
35/222 (15.8) 
1/326 (0.3) 
(1 proximal DVT) 
9/330 (2.7) 
(1 fatal PE, 2 non-fatal PE, 
5 proximal DVT, 1 distal DVT) 
5/208 (2.4) 
50/220 (22.7) 
5 X 10-11 
p-Value 
4 X 10-22 
4 X 10-21 
3 X 10-9 
0.021 
The VTE rate observed in the fondaparinux treatment group was low (1.4%), lower than that observed 
in study EFC2698 (8.3%) following peri-operative prophylaxis with fondaparinux in the same patient 
population.  In  this  respect,  the  MAH  suggests  that  prolonged  prophylaxis  not  only  prevents  the 
development  of  new  thrombi,  but  also  may  provide  an  environment  that  allows  lysis  of  thrombi 
existing  at  the  end  of  the  peri-operative  prophylaxis  period.  When  the  overall  HFS  population  was 
subgrouped according to whether or not the patient received a hip replacement (either partial or total 
prosthesis)  the  observed  VTE  rates  [fondaparinux:  1/56  (1.8%)  vs.  placebo:  25/70  (35.7%)]  were 
consistent with the overall study results. The results  of all 3 pre-specified sensitivity analyses of the 
primary  analysis  were  also  consistent  and  statistically  significant  (best  case:  RRR  =  96%;  95%CI 
[88%; 100%]; realistic case: RRR = 60%; 95%CI [45%; 73%]; worst case: RRR = 35%; 95%CI [21%; 
47%]). 
The  secondary  efficacy  analyses  were  consistent  with  the  primary  analysis;  there  was  a  statistically 
significant  reduction  in  the  rate  of  symptomatic  VTE  and  a  significant  reduction  of  the  combined 
endpoint of proximal DVT and/or PE (fondaparinux: 2/221 vs. placebo: 38/224). 
20/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 also shows that considerably fewer patients received curative treatment than those classified 
as having VTE (50 vs. 77 in the placebo group). Further to a request from CPMP, the MAH provided 
data  showing  that,  unexpectedly,  antithrombotic  therapy  was  initiated  by  the  investigators  in  only  a 
small minority (3%) of the patients without any centrally adjudicated VTE. Even more unexpectedly, 
antithrombotic treatment was not initiated by the investigators in 12/37 patients with proximal DVT 
and in 22/40 with distal DVT (according to central reading). This point is addressed in the discussion.  
The  symptomatic  events  observed  in  the  placebo  group  tended  to  present  a  week  or  more  after 
randomisation, suggesting that it might take some time for symptomatic VTE to develop (Figure 1).  
Figure 1 -Day of symptomatic VTE after randomisation 
D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 D8 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 D16 D17 D18 D19 D20 D21 D22 D23 D24
D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 D8 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 D16 D17 D18 D19 D20 D21 D22 D23 D24
D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 D8 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 D16 D17 D18 D19 D20 D21 D22 D23 D24
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
O
O
O
O O O O O
O O O O O
O O O O O
O O
O O
O O
O
O
O
Fondaparinux
Fondaparinux
Fondaparinux
O
O
O
Period of 
Period of 
Period of 
mandatory 
mandatory 
mandatory 
venogram if no 
venogram if no 
venogram if no 
prior symptoms
prior symptoms
prior symptoms
The trend for a delay in the occurrence of symptomatic VTE in the placebo group contributes to the 
impression of a considerable efficacy of fondaparinux prophylaxis in the early post-operative phase. A 
consistent trend for  effect  of fondaparinux was observed in several patient subgroups. The very low 
number  of  VTE  in  fondaparinux-treated  patients  does  not  allow  identification  of  covariates  by 
treatment interactions. However, in the placebo group gender, age, and increased kidney dysfunction 
appear  to  be  associated  with  an  increased  VTE  risk  -  age  and  female  gender  have  previously  been 
reported as VTE risk factors in HS, but not RI. The relationship of VTE risk with RI may be related to 
age and/or may be a marker of underlying concomitant morbidities that are actually responsible for the 
increased risk. Generally, ill patients are prone both to VTE and RI and thus, conclusions on a direct 
causal  relationship  between  RI  and  VTE  are  difficult  to  draw.  Hence,  the  observed  increased 
thrombotic tendency has to be weighed against the well known increased bleeding risk in a benefit/risk 
evaluation of antithrombotic prophylaxis in RI patients.  
Safety 
The number of patients who discontinued study drug by reason is given in table 2. 
21/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  2  -  Number  (%)  of  patients  who  discontinued  study  drug  prematurely  by  primary  reason  for 
discontinuation - All treated patients (as randomised groups) 
Premature Treatment Discontinuation/Reason for Stopping 
Patients who discontinued study drug prematurely 
Reason(s) for discontinuationa 
Lack of efficacy 
DVTa 
PEa 
AE/SAEb 
Bleeding AE/SAE 
Repeated surgery 
Suspicion of drug-induced decrease of platelet count 
Other AE/SAE 
Fondaparinux 
(N=326) 
40 (12.3%) 
Placebo 
(N=330) 
46 (13.9%) 
2 ( 0.6%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
20 ( 6.1%) 
5 ( 1.5%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
14 ( 4.3%) 
12 ( 3.7%) 
6 ( 1.8%) 
12 ( 3.6%) 
9 ( 2.7%) 
3 ( 0.9%) 
14 ( 4.2%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
3 ( 0.9%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
10 ( 3.0%) 
16 ( 4.8%) 
4 ( 1.2%) 
Subject withdrawn consent 
Other reason 
NOTE: Patients are considered in the treatment group in which they were randomised. 
a  According to the Investigator’s judgment. 
b  Including AEs recorded before the first double-blind study drug injection (based on the data 
collected in the ‘end of treatment’ form). 
There were numerical increases in bleedings (Table 3) and bleeding-related criteria (i.e., transfusion, 
decrease  in  haemoglobin  plasma  level)  under  fondaparinux  as  compared  to  placebo  treatment.  The 
numerical  difference  in  major  bleedings  (MB)  was  not  statistically  significant  and  was  due  to  an 
increase in bleeding index (BI) ≥2 (i.e., a need for transfusion and/or a decrease in haemoglobin level). 
All of the MB occurred at the surgical site.  
Table 3 - % of patients with adjudicated bleeding events during EFC2698 and EFC4582 by 
adjudication criterion -‘As treated’ patients 
Patients With 
Major bleeding  
Peri-Operative Prophylaxis 
EFC2698 (Penthifra)a 
Fondaparinux 
2.5 mg qd 
(N=831) 
18 (2.2%) 
Enoxaparin 
40 mg qd 
(N=842) 
19 (2.3%) 
Extended Prophylaxis  
EFC4582 (Penthifra Plus)b 
Fondaparinux 
2.5 mg qd 
(N=327) 
8 (2.4%) 
Placebo 
(N=329) 
2 (0.6%) 
Fatal bleeding 
Non-fatal critical bleeding 
Other non-fatal major bleeding 
At surgical site leading to re-operation 
Only bleeding index (BI) ≥2  
Minor bleeding only 
Any bleeding 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
18 (2.2%) 
3 (0.4%)  
15 (1.8%) 
34 (4.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
18 (2.1%) 
2 (0.2%)  
16 (1.9%) 
18 (2.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
8 (2.4%) 
2 (0.6%) 
6 (1.8%) 
5 (1.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.6%) 
2 (0.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.6%) 
52 (6.3%) 
37 (4.4%) 
13 (4.0%) 
4 (1.2%) 
a   From first double-blind injection up to Day 11 (Day 1 is the day of surgery). 
b  From first double-blind injection up to Day 25 (Day 1 is the day of first double-blind injection).  
There  was  a  temporal  trend  for  MB,  with  bleedings  more  frequently  observed  immediately  after 
randomisation  (Figure  2),  although  5  (4  fondaparinux  vs  1  placebo)  of  the  10  MB  reported  after 
randomisation started before randomisation. 
22/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 - Day of MB from the first study drug administration in EFC4582 ‘as treated’ patients 
D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 D8 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 D16 D17 D18 D19 D20 D21 D22 D23 D24
D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 D8 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 D16 D17 D18 D19 D20 D21 D22 D23 D24
Placebo
Placebo
O
O
O
O
Fondaparinux
Fondaparinux
O O Oa O
O O Oa O
O1
O1
O2a
O2a
Oa
Oa
Oa
Oa
a : patients with MB started before randomization and worsening after randomization
a : patients with MB started before randomization and worsening after randomization
1 : Patient 22050019 : MB only related to BI≥ 2 which only led to study drug temporary discontinuation for 48 hours
1 : Patient 22050019 : MB only related to BI≥ 2 which only led to study drug temporary discontinuation for 48 hours
2 : Patient 10020004 : MB started before randomization which led to re-operation on D15 after randomization
2 : Patient 10020004 : MB started before randomization which led to re-operation on D15 after randomization
Because  of  the  overall  low  number  of  MB,  particularly  in  the  placebo  group,  it  was  not  possible  to 
evaluate  either  the  patient  characteristics  that  might  correlate  with  increased  bleeding  risk  or  the 
interaction of fondaparinux with any concomitant diseases or treatments (Table 4). Nevertheless, the 
tendency for increased MB rates with decreasing body weight and renal function are consistent with 
those  observed  during  peri-operative  prophylaxis  in  the  original  MAA.  The  safety  concerns  for 
patients with RI remain and must be carefully considered (see Removal of contraindication in severe 
renal impairment). 
Table 4 - Number (%) [95% CI] of patients with MB by selected covariate - ‘as treated’ 
population  
Fondaparinux 
2.5 mg qd 
(N=327) 
Placebo 
(N=329) 
2/92 (2.2) ; [0.3;7.6] 
1/98 (1.0) ; [0.0;5.6] 
6/235 (2.6) ; [0.9;5.5] 
1/231 (0.4) ; [0.0;2.4] 
1/52 (1.9) ; [0.0;10.3] 
1/56 (1.8) ; [0.0;9.6] 
1/71 (1.4) ; [0.0;7.6] 
1/58 (1.7) ; [0.0;9.2] 
6/204 (2.9) ; [1.1;6.3] 
0/215 (0.0) ; [0.0;1.7] 
2/28 (7.1) ; [0.9;23.5] 
0/25 (0.0) ; [0.0;13.7] 
6/292 (2.1) ; [0.8;4.4] 
2/301 (0.7) ; [0.1;2.4] 
0/5 (0.0) ; [0.0;52.2] 
0/2 (0.0) ; [0.0;84.2] 
Gender 
Male 
Female 
Age (years) 
<65 
[65 – 75[ 
≥75 
Weight (Kg) 
<50 
[50 – 100] 
>100 
Creatinine clearance (ml/min) 
<30 
30 – 50 
50 – 80 
≥80 
1/28 (3.6); [0.1;18.3] 
0/25 (0.0) ; [0.0;13.7] 
3/104 (2.9); [0.6;8.2] 
0/84 (0.0) ; [0.0;4.3] 
3/125 (2.4); [0.5;6.9] 
1/131 (0.8) ; [0.0;4.2] 
1/68 (1.5); [0.0;7.9] 
1/88 (1.1) ; [0.0;6.2] 
Regarding  other  adverse  events,  overall  there  was  no  evidence  of  any  differences  between  patients 
who received fondaparinux and those who received placebo. There were 2 fatal pulmonary embolisms 
(PE) in the placebo treatment group.  
23/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune thrombocytopenia and an increase in transaminases are ADRs often associated with heparins. 
Clinical laboratory evaluations revealed that no patient experienced a platelet count <100 x 109/l in 
either treatment group, and changes in liver enzymes were equally common in both treatment groups.  
The  possibility  of  a  thrombotic  rebound  phenomenon  induced  by  fondaparinux  has  also  been 
addressed by the MAH, who concluded that the VTE rate following treatment discontinuation (in the 
placebo  group)  did  not  exceed  the  historical  norm  for  a  non-prophylaxed  patient  (i.e.:  ~50%). 
Furthermore,  there  was  no  significant  excess  in  AE  rates  in  the  placebo  group  after  treatment 
discontinuation  compared with patients who continued the treatment. Consequently, the VTE events 
observed  after  discontinuation  of  prophylactic  therapy  following  the  peri-operative  period  suggest  a 
persisting VTE risk that should be prevented, rather than a rebound. The CPMP concur that the VTE 
events  recorded  probably  represent  a  persisting  risk  rather  than  a  rebound  phenomenon.  The  high 
incidence  of  venographically  detected  DVT  in  the  placebo  group  is  not  unexpectedly  high  when 
compared  to  the incidences recorded in similar studies with other prophylactic agents. Nevertheless, 
considering  the  new  pharmacodynamic  principle  that  fondaparinux  represents,  with  an  intense  and 
selective  inhibition  of  Factor  Xa  mediated  via  AT,  there  could  be  some  concern  for  decreased  AT 
levels  during  prolonged  treatment,  which  in  turn  could  lead  to  an  increased  thrombotic  tendency. 
Further to a request from the CPMP, the MAH confirmed that AT levels had not been recorded at the 
end  of  the  4  weeks  of  fondaparinux  treatment  nor  was  there  any  external  support  for  a  lack  of  a 
clinically relevant reduction of AT activity during prolonged fondaparinux treatment.  
Discussion 
The over-all design of the study is acceptable for the intended primary objective, although the follow-
up  period  after  treatment  ended  is  short  and,  thus,  the  incidences  of  symptomatic  VTE  or  bleeding 
occurring after day 25 are unknown. The number of patients excluded before randomisation from the 
extended  prophylaxis  period  and  the  number  of  patients  not  undergoing  venography  at  the  end  of 
treatment correspond to what could be expected. The population included is judged to reflect the target 
population.  It  should  be  noted  that,  as  observed  in  the  pivotal  studies  in  the  original  MAA,  patients 
with severe RI (CLcrea <30 ml/min) were not to be included in this study. In violation of this exclusion 
criterion  a  fairly  large  proportion  (8.6%)  of  the  patients  was  included,  possibly  reflecting  the 
confidence treating physicians today feel for the safety of pharmacological prophylaxis of VTE. 
Efficacy 
Not surprisingly, the statistically significant reduction in the primary endpoint is largely driven by the 
reduction  in  venographically  detected,  non-symptomatic  DVTs.  The  reduction  of  symptomatic  VTE 
also  reaches  statistical  significance,  although  this  is  based  on  very  few  events.  A  study  aiming  to 
demonstrate an overall clinical benefit from prolonged prophylaxis would have to be of considerably 
greater size and would have to be designed differently, with a longer follow-up time and possibly with 
a third arm of patients not being treated and not undergoing venography after treatment. 
The  most  important  objection  to  routinely  applied  prolonged  prophylaxis  regimens  in  HRS  has 
probably  been  the  uncertainty  on  the  clinical  importance  of  the  non-symptomatic  venographically 
detected  DVTs.  The  relationship  between  non-symptomatic  DVT  and  symptomatic  VTE  probably 
differs in different clinical situations and could be suspected to change with time elapsed after surgery. 
The  clinical  importance  of  venographically  detected  DVTs  4  weeks  after  HFS  is  to  a  large  extent 
unknown.  Indeed,  the  lower  number  of  patients  receiving  curative  treatment  relative  to  patients 
classified  as  having  VTE  (50  vs.  77  in  the  placebo  group)  raises  the  question  as  to  whether  these 
thrombi were small and difficult to diagnose, or whether they were detected locally but judged to be 
clinically  irrelevant.  These  findings,  together  with  the  short  observational  follow-up  period  after 
treatment  cessation,  further  contribute  to  the  uncertainty  concerning  the  clinical  relevance  of  non-
symptomatic venographically detected DVT 28 days after HFS. Despite this uncertainty, it is accepted 
that in a specific clinical situation there is a relationship between venographically detected DVTs and 
symptomatic DVTs and this assumption could be utilised in a direct comparison between different AT 
24/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agents,  as  was  done  in  the  original  MAA.  It  is  also  well  understood  that  once  a  DVT  has  been 
diagnosed at a prescheduled venography it cannot be left untreated in the majority of cases. However, 
this generally applied rule for clinical decision-making cannot be regarded as scientific proof for the 
clinical importance of non-symptomatic DVTs 4 weeks after HFS.  
As  regards  extrapolating  the  Penthifra  trial  results  to  HRS  patients,  the  MAH  argues  that  given  the 
already  documented  persistence  of  VTE  risk  in  patients  undergoing  HRS  and  the  demonstrated 
efficacy  of  a  less  effective  agent  (enoxaparin),  the  efficacy  of  fondaparinux  in  preventing  persisting 
VTE risk in both types of hip surgery (HRS and HFS) is unquestionable. While the CPMP concur that 
prolonged prophylaxis in HRS can be expected to be effective to an extent that is similar (although not 
necessarily identical) to the demonstrated efficacy in HFS, the mean incidence of symptomatic VTE 
after day 11 was, in relative terms, 27% lower in HRS as compared to HFS. The extrapolation is thus 
not endorsed, as reflected in the adopted SPC.  
Based  on  the  above  reasoning,  the  CPMP  does  not  believe  that  a  general  recommendation  for 
routinely applied prolonged prophylaxis in all patients undergoing HFS is justified. Nevertheless, the 
results of this study support a change in the labelling allowing prolonged prophylaxis in patients who 
are deemed by the treating physician to suffer from an increased thrombotic risk. This is reflected in 
the SPC.  
Safety:  
The number of patients who discontinued treatment prematurely was similar in both treatment groups, 
with more symptomatic VTE in the placebo group and a tendency for more bleedings in the actively 
treated group. As suggested from the results of the studies of perioperative prohylaxis in the original 
MAA, a temporal association between time of surgery and the incidence of MB was also observed in 
the Penthifra plus trial, although no trend for increased bleeding with increased treatment time is seen, 
which  is  interpreted  by  the  MAH  as  an  indication  of  a  lack  of  a  clinically  relevant  accumulation  of 
fondaparinuxin  plasma  during  the  3  weeks  extended  treatment.  However,  considering  i)  the  well-
known difficulties in evaluating bleeding tendency in clinical studies, ii) the limited size of the study, 
iii) the lack of external support for the safety of fondaparinux prophylaxis longer than 9 days, iv) the 
exclusion of patients with increased bleeding risk and severe RI and v) the avoidance of concomitant 
medication  interfering  with  the  haemostatic  mechanisms  in  the  clinical  trial  setting  which  seems  to 
have  been  well  controlled,  it  is  difficult  to  conclude  from  these  findings  on  the  risk  of  bleedings  in 
clinical  routine  and  on  the  claimed  lack  of  clinical  relevance  of  possible  plasma  accumulation  of 
fondaparinux (plasma levels were not measured in this study). Plasma concentrations can be viewed as 
a relevant marker for the safety (and efficacy) of fondaparinux. 
REMOVAL OF THE CONTRAINDICATION IN SEVERE RENAL IMPAIRMENT 
Scientific background 
Arixtra was initially contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcrea<30 ml/min). The 
elimination of Arixtra is highly dependent on renal function and there is a clear relationship between 
fondaparinux CL and CLcrea. In a RI study from the original application, CL was approximately 5-fold 
lower in severely impaired subjects compared with normal subjects  
The MAH requested the deletion of the contraindication for patients with severe renal impairment (RI) 
and instead proposed treatment with a lower dose (1.5 mg q.d.). No new pharmacokinetic (PK) data 
have been submitted and the proposed changes are mainly based on new analyses of the original MAA 
data and Penthifra Plus results using PK modelling and simulation.  
Modelling and Simulations 
Population modelling was initially conducted using data from the moderate and severe RI groups in 
the RI-study (P-pharm), rendering population estimates and individual Bayesian parameter estimates. 
The 2 groups were analysed separately using a two-compartment model, thus not taking advantage of 
the information that arises from the other group, e.g. with respect to the CL- CLcrea relationship. Mild 
25/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and normal RI were not included in the analysis and data from the Phase II/III studies were not used, 
although they included many patients with moderate RI and a few patients with CLcrea 20 - 30 ml/min.  
Further to a request from CPMP, the population analysis was redone. A population pharmacokinetic 
(POPPK) model using all available sparse data by SC route from the phase II/III studies was built with 
NONMEM  software  (FOCE  interaction)  and  implemented  on  Pharsight  Trial  Simulator  (TS2) 
software. The objective of this new analysis was to build a POPPK model including at least CLcrea as 
covariate  of  fondaparinux  CL  in  patients  undergoing  MOSLL.  A  total  of  756   patients  (3413 time 
points) with an available CLcrea ranging from 23.5 to 231.5 ml/min (550 from study DRI2643, 65 from 
study  ECF2442  and  141 from  study  EFC2698)  were  used  to  develop  this  model.  A  2-compartment 
model with a first order absorption and elimination from the central compartment best fitted available 
data. Two covariates were included in the final model: CLcrea on CL, and the body weight (WGT) on 
central compartment volume (V2).  
Table 5 – Description of final population pharmacokinetic model 
Standard Error 
Coefficient of  
Variation (%) 
Interindividual  
Variability (%) 
Parameter  
CL (L/h) 
CLcr(CL) 
Population 
Estimate 
0.0409 
0.320 
0.0160 
0.0169 
39 
5 
2 
6 
CL(CLcr) = 0.0409 + 0.320 * (CLcr / Median CLcr) 
V2 (L) 
WGT (V2) 
7.21 
0.0996 
0.123 
0.00626 
V2 (WGT) = 7.21 + 0.0996 * (Weight - Median Weight) 
ka (1/h) 
Q (L/h) 
V3 (L) 
1.58 
0.145 
17.8 
0.184 
0.0143 
3.78 
12 
10 
21 
24 
- 
14 
- 
71 
- 
138 
Residual variability 5.78 10-3 mg/l. CL: Clearance from first compartment; Q: Inter-compartmental 
Clearance; V2: Distribution Volume of first (central) compartment; V3: Distribution Volume of second 
(peripheral) compartment; ka: Rate of absorption. The covariance of ηCL and ηV2 within the omega 
block was 0.0276, correlation=0.84. 
Results 
A  total  of  20,000 patients  were  simulated  to  receive  fondaparinux  2.5 mg  for  28  days  with  samples 
“collected”  at  appropriate  time  points  on  Day 7  and  Day 28.  No  specific  simulation  was  run  at  the 
1.5 mg  dose  level:  same  Cmax  and  AUC  values  obtained  at  2.5  mg  dose  level  were  normalised  to 
1.5 mg. Empirical 5th, 50th and 95th percentiles were computed for a unit of CLcrea every 10 ml/min 
from 20 to 150 ml/min. 
In order to provide reasonable estimates of the distribution of simulated Cmax and AUC0-24 for a given 
CLcrea  value,  empirical  5th,  50th  and  95th  percentiles  were  computed  for  a  unit  of  CLcrea  every  10 
m/min.  For  graphic  representations,  exponential  decay  regression  curves  (y=y0  +  a*e-bx)  were 
estimated for each percentile (Fig 3). 
26/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 -Individual predicted AUC0-24 (mg/l) and corresponding 5th, 50th and 95th percentiles on 
Day 28 at 1.5 mg or 2.5mg once daily with cut-off at Clcrea 30 and 50 l/min in patients  
The  model  shows  that  increasing  the  CLcrea  cut-off  to  a  value  above  30ml/min  (i.e.  50ml/min) 
decreases  the  variability  in  the  population  and  generates  more  comparable  exposure  in  RI  and 
“normal” patients for a switch between 1.5 and 2.5 mg dose. 
27/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6- Descriptive statistics on predicted Cmax (mg/l) and AUC0-24 (mg.h/l) on Day 28 at 1.5 mg 
and 2.5 mg q.d. for a CLcrea value at 20, 30, 40, 50 and 80 ml/min. 
Creatinine clearance value 
Dose 
20 ml/min 
30 mL/min 
40 ml/min 
50 ml/min 
80 ml/min 
Cmax (mg/l) 
  2.5 mg 
  n 
  Mean (CV%) 
  5th percentile 
  Median 
  95th percentile 
  1.5 mg 
  n 
  Mean (CV%) 
  5th percentile 
  Median 
  95th percentile 
AUC0-24 (mg.h/l) 
  2.5 mg 
  n 
  Mean (CV%) 
  5th percentile 
  Median 
  95th percentile 
  1.5 mg 
  n 
  Mean (CV%) 
  5th percentile 
  Median 
  95th percentile 
30 
56 
86 
112 
235 
0.760 (30) 
0.612 (26) 
0.530 (25) 
0.456 (23) 
0.359 (22) 
0.464 
0.714 
1.149 
0.403 
0.600 
0.905 
0.325 
0.508 
0.747 
0.299 
0.459 
0.630 
0.250 
0.347 
0.506 
30 
56 
86 
112 
235 
0.456 (30) 
0.367 (26) 
0.318 (25) 
0.274 (23) 
0.215 (22) 
0.278 
0.428 
0.689 
0.242 
0.360 
0.543 
0.195 
0.305 
0.448 
0.179 
0.275 
0.378 
0.150 
0.208 
0.304 
30 
56 
86 
112 
235 
14.51 (33) 
11.18 (31) 
9.35 (27) 
7.73 (24) 
5.43 (25) 
8.62 
13.95 
21.92 
6.57 
10.88 
17.96 
5.76 
8.91 
14.28 
4.85 
7.81 
10.62 
30 
56 
86 
112 
3.54 
5.22 
7.89 
235 
8.71 (33) 
6.71 (31) 
5.61 (27) 
4.64 (24) 
3.26 (25) 
5.17 
8.37 
13.15 
3.94 
6.53 
10.77 
3.46 
5.35 
8.57 
2.91 
4.68 
6.37 
2.13 
3.13 
4.73 
The MAH has also looked at controlled MB data from the original MAA and from Penthifra Plus in 
order to help establish a cut-off value (Table 7).  
28/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7- MB [number (%) of patients] by CLcrea and study categories in fondaparinux MOSLL 
studies – patients actively treated with fondaparinux 
Pre-Operative Studies 
(ACT2545, 63118, 
EFC2698)  
Post-Operative Studies  
(DRI2643, EFC2442, 
095-002) 
Extended 
Prophylaxis 
(EFC4582) 
CLcrea 
Fonda 
2.5 mg qd 
Enox  
40 mg qd 
Fonda 
2.5 mg qd 
Enox 
30 q12hr 
Fonda 
2.5 mg qd 
Placebo 
<30 ml/min 
4/72 (5.6) 
1/75 (1.3) 
0/11 (0.0) 
1/12 (8.3) 
1/28 (3.6) 
0/25 (0.0) 
30 – 40 ml/min 
5/151 (3.3) 
6/164 (3.7) 
0/31 (0.0)  
1/42 (2.4) 
0/35 (0.0) 
0/44 (0.0) 
40 – 50 ml/min 
15/235 (6.4) 
9/277 (3.2) 
0/90 (0.0) 
2/103 (1.9) 
3/69 (4.3) 
0/40 (0.0) 
50 – 80 ml/min 
26/788 (3.3) 
24/789 (3.0)  14/502 (2.8) 
5/658 (0.8) 
3/125 (2.4)  1/131 (0.8) 
≥80 ml/min 
14/647 (2.2) 
14/664 (2.1)  17/932 (1.8)  11/992 (1.1) 
1/68 (1.5) 
1/88 (1.1) 
Fonda=fondaparinux. Enox=enoxaparin 
The limited number of events greatly hinders the interpretation of the above results. However, it 
should be remembered that an increased bleeding tendency has been observed in patients with reduced 
renal function. This is confounded by the observation that patients with renal impairment may be at 
higher risk of VTE. 
Discussion 
Due  to  limited  data  (1  subject  with  CLcrea  of  8  ml/min),  the  lower  CLcrea  cut-off  for  treatment  with 
fondaparinux has been set to 20ml/min and thus Arixtra should remain contraindicated in patients with 
CLcrea below this value. Given the comparable AUC and Cmax estimates in the severe and moderate 
group, the 1.5mg dose is approvable in severe renal impairment (>20ml/min).  
The  CPMP  believes  that,  in  the  absence  of  clinical  data  to  the  contrary,  it  is  preferable  to  opt  for  a 
dosing  regimen  that  will  give  similar  exposure  in  RI  as  in  non-impaired  patients,  especially  during 
prolonged prophylaxis, as reflected in the adopted SPC. This is relevant since patients with RI in the 
lower  moderate  range  may  not  have  achieved  steady  state  with  the  2.5  mg  dose  at  the  end  of  the 
previously  approved  9-day  treatment  period.  The  fact  that  patients  with  renal  impairment  may  be  at 
higher  risk  for  VTE  and  in  special  need  of  prophylaxis  does  not  justify  a  higher  exposure  in  this 
population.  It  is  more  reasonable  that  the  VTE  risk  is  a  reflection  of  overall  morbidity  rather  than 
related to renal impairment per se. Moreover, the safety data available for prolonged prohylaxis in RI 
stem from study EFC4582 and are not extensive. 
NEW  INDICATION  IN  THE  TREATMENT  OF  VTE  (new  pre-filled  syringes  of  5mg/0.4ml, 
7.5mg/0.6ml and 10mg/0.8ml) 
Rationale for New Indication 
VTE  disease  is  the  usual  terminology  for  referring  to  DVT  and  PE,  two  clinical  expressions  of  the 
same underlying  pathophysiology. The mean  annual  reported incidence  of  DVT  ranges  between  48-
180  per  100,000  population.  Whereas  a  lower  annual  incidence  of  23/100,000  is  reported  for 
symptomatic  PE,  asymptomatic  defect  of  pulmonary  perfusion  is  reported  in  up  to  80%  of  patients 
suffering  from  DVT,  especially  proximal  DVT.  Conversely,  the  presence  of  DVT  could  be 
documented in up to 93% of PE patients. In addition, the reported rates of VTE recurrences in patients 
with only symptoms of DVT associated or not to asymptomatic PE or in patients with symptoms of PE 
are similar. These data emphasise the intimate relationship between DVT and PE. 
DVT  and  PE  are  treated  with  the  same  therapeutic  approach  aiming  to  prevent  further  thrombotic 
extension with increased risk for post-thrombotic syndrome and pulmonary embolisation that may be 
life-threatening  or  lead  to  restriction  of  pulmonary  function  and/or  chronic  pulmonary  hypertension. 
Current  management  of  patients  with  acute  VTE  requires  initial  treatment  with  an  anticoagulant 
29/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exhibiting  rapid  onset  of  action,  such  as  Unfractionated  Heparin  (UFH)  or  Low  Molecular  Weight 
Heparin  (LMWH),  followed  by  chronic  anticoagulation  with  oral  anti-vitamin  K  agents  (AVK)  for 
secondary  prevention.  The  approved  UFH  regimen  for  this  initial  treatment  of  patients  with  DVT 
and/or  PE  requires  activated  partial  thromboplastin  time  (aPTT)  monitoring  due  to  inter-individual 
differences  in  dose-response  relationship.  LMWHs,  such  as  bodyweight-adjusted  dose  enoxaparin 
sodium represent therapeutic alternatives for DVT patients with superior or equal efficacy, with some 
suggestions for decreased bleeding complications and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) type 
II, which is a serious complication of heparin therapy. This therapeutic alternative, consisting of once 
or twice daily sc administration, allows home treatment for suitable patients. 
Unlike  fondapanirux,  which  is  chemically  synthesised,  both  UFHs  and  LMWHs  are  animal-sourced 
products with potential for contamination and exposure of patients to immunoallergic reactions and to 
other  non-haemorrhagic  adverse  drug  reactions.  There  is,  therefore,  a  need  to  improve  the  initial 
anticoagulant therapy of patients with VTE.  
This application concerns 3 new product strengths (pre-filled syringes of 5mg/0.4ml, 7.5mg/0.6ml and 
10mg/0.8ml)  developed  for  a  new  indication  in  the  treatment  of  DVT  and  PE.  Various  health 
authorities were consulted prior to the finalisation of the clinical development plan. The studies follow 
the  main  recommendations  made  in  CHMP  Note  for  guidance  (NfG)  on  clinical  investigation  of 
medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  VTE  disease  (CHMP/EWP/563/98)  and  CHMP  scientific 
advice provided in September 1999. 
1. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Arixtra  5mg/0.4ml,  7.5mg/0.6ml  and  10mg/0.8ml  contain  fondaparinux  sodium  as  the  active 
ingredient  in  a  concentration  of  12.5  mg/ml.  The  medicinal  product  is  presented  as  a  solution  for 
injection in a prefilled syringe with an automatic needle protection system.  
Other  ingredients  include  an  isotonic  solution  of  sodium  chloride  and  water  for  injections.  Sodium 
hydroxide  and  hydrochloric  acid  are  used  as  pH  adjusters  and  sterile  nitrogen  is  used  as  an  aid  to 
filtration, but is not present in the finished product. 
The  product  is  packaged  in  a  single  dose  syringe  consisting  of  a  glass  barrel  with  a  stainless  steel 
needle  and  a  rubber  needle  shield  and  closed  with  a  plunger  stopper.  To  differentiate  between  the 
different  doses  available,  the  plunger  rod  and  the  automatic  needle  protection  system  have  different 
colours for each strength. 
Active substance 
The drug substance is identical to the one used in the already approved strengths. 
Other ingredients 
The  same  excipients  are  used  as  in  the  already  approved  strengths.  All  materials  are  of  non-animal 
origin and comply with Ph. Eur. requirements.  
Product development and finished product 
Arixtra  5mg/0.4ml,  7.5mg/0.6ml  and  10mg/0.8ml  have  been  developed  using  the  same  qualitative 
composition,  manufacturing  process  and  primary  packaging  material  as  the  already  approved 
strengths.  Since  the  proposed  indication  requires  a  higher  dose  compared  to  the  approved  ones,  a 
higher concentration was needed in order to keep the injection volume below 1 ml. For this reason the 
concentration of the solution has been increased to 12.5 mg/ml as compared to the already authorised 
5  mg/ml  and  the  sodium  chloride  concentration  has  been  changed  from  0.84  to  0.76%  in  order  to 
obtain similar osmolality (284-285 mOsm/kg) for both fondaparinux sodium solutions. 
The manufacturing process is the same as the one employed in the already approved strengths. It is a 
standard  process  that  involves  the  following  steps:  compounding,  sterile  filtration,  aseptic  filling, 
terminal  sterilisation,  inspection  and  secondary  packaging.  Filtration  and  terminal  sterilisation  have 
30/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
been identified as the critical steps of the manufacturing process and have been appropriately validated 
together  with  the  proposed  holding  times.  From  the  results  presented  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
manufacturing process is reproducible and can consistently produce a product that meets the proposed 
specifications. 
Product specification 
The  specifications  include  tests  for  the  appearance,  identification  (LC),  particulate  matter,  pH, 
extractable volume, degradation products (LC), sterility, bacterial endotoxins and assay by validated 
analytical  methods.  They  have  been  kept  identical  with  the  ones  for  the  approved  strenghts  except 
from some minor changes concerning the colour, extractable volume and assay. 
Stability of the product 
Stability  data  from  3  batches  of  the  5mg/0.4ml  strength,  1  batch  of  the  7.5mg/0.6ml  strength  and  3 
batches  of  the  10mg/0.8ml  strength  stored  at  25°C/60%RH  and  30°C/60%RH  for  12  months  and  at 
40°C/75%RH for 6 months have been presented. The samples were tested for appearance, particulate 
matter, pH, extractable volume, degradation products, free sulfates, sterility, bacterial endotoxins and 
assay,  by  validated  stability  indicating  methods.  In  all  cases  the  batch  analysis  results  met  the 
proposed specification. 
Data from photostability and temperature cycling studies conducted according to ICH guidelines have 
also been provided. All results remained within the acceptance criteria.  
The  stability  data  provided  indicate  that  the  medicinal  product  is  stable  for  the  proposed  shelf  life 
when stored under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Arixtra 5mg/0.4ml, 7.5mg/0.6ml and 10mg/0.8ml is adequately established. In general, 
satisfactory  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  the  marketing 
authorization. There are no major deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The proposed new strengths are similar to the already approved ones. They have the same qualitative 
composition and only differ slightly in quantitative composition. The same manufacturing process and 
primary packaging material are used as in the approved strengths and stability tests indicate that the 
product under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
2. 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.1 Toxicology 
The  mean  maximum  human  exposure  is  about  three-fold  higher  with  the  new  proposed  dosage 
regimen  than  with  the  hitherto  approved  posology.  No  new  preclinical  information  has  been  made 
available since the product was originally approved. Further to a request from CHMP, the Applicant 
has  submitted  a  non  clinical  overview  including  animal/human  AUC-exposure  ratios  with  the  new 
proposed  posology,  together  with  a  justification  as  to  why  the  available  preclinical  information  is 
sufficient to support the safety of the product at the higher proposed doses. Thus, the exposure ratios 
between the highest dosed animals of the pivotal repeat dose toxicity studies and patients with normal 
renal function (∼20 µgxh/ml) have decreased from 5 to 1.75 in rat, 13 to 4.25 in rabbit, and from 16 to 
5.3 in monkey. In renally impaired patients the exposure ratios will be even lower (1, 2.4 and 3 with 
the applicant’s dose-adjustment proposal given ∼35 µgxh/ml). 
As  explained  in  the  Toxico-Pharmacological  Critical  Assessment  of  the  original  application,  a 
combination  of  safety,  pharmacokinetic  and  ethical  considerations  justified  why  studies  with  doses 
higher  than  those  used  cannot  be  performed;  consequently,  no  additional  toxicological  studies  with 
higher  doses  have  been  performed.  The  Applicant  refers  to  this  justification  and  argues  that  the 
animal/human exposure ratios obtained for the recommended therapeutic treatment dose of 7.5 mg are 
adequate and sufficient to support the safety of Arixtra for the intended indication, and concludes that 
no changes in the preclinical safety sections of the SmPC are necessary. 
31/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  investigated  margins  of  toxicity  are  generally  low.  The  question  arises  if  more  can  be  done  to 
cover  the  new  higher  exposure  scenario.  In  the  earlier  submitted  repeat  dose/reproduction  toxicity 
studies  (max  dose  10  mg/kg/day  in  all  species),  the  maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD)  appears  not  to 
have been reached in the rat and rabbit (mostly minor injection site haemorrhage reported) in contrast 
to  the  more  exposed  monkeys  (up  to  3-month  iv  treatment),  where  a  relatively  more  severe  toxicity 
profile  of  primary  bleeding  and  secondary  associated  events  was  reported.  Hence,  the  full  feasible 
toxicity  profile  of  fondaparinux  appears  to  have  been  explored  in  a  species  considered  relevant 
regarding the pharmacological effects of heparins on the coagulation system. There were no apparent 
indications  of  other  toxic  events  in  the  monkey,  considered  unrelated  to  effects  on  the  coagulation 
system,  up  to  3-5  fold  the  clinical  exposure  level.  The  monkey  data  indicate  that,  upon  short-term 
treatment,  unacceptable  bleeding  would  arise  before  any  other  potential  harmful  reaction  occurs. 
Given  the  MTD  studies  available  in  monkeys,  the  CHMP  concurs  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  collect 
further  data  in  the  rodent  species.  Nonetheless,  in  contrast  to  the  applicant’s  view,  the  CHMP 
considers that the toxicological profile of fondaparinux is not fully characterised for this higher dose 
indication. Hence, the fact that the repeated dose and reproduction toxicity studies are insufficient due 
to the limited exposure has been appropriately reflected in section 5.3 of the SPC.  
3. 
Clinical aspects 
3.1 
Introduction 
The efficacy and safety of Arixtra 5mg/0.4 ml, 7.5 mg/0.6 ml, and 10 mg/0.8 ml solution for injection 
in  the  treatment  of  Venous  Thromboembolic  Events  was  investigated  in  3  multicentre  studies 
conducted  in  Europe,  North  America  and  Australia,  and  additional  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  and 
pharmacodynamic  (PD)  data  were  collected.  The  phase  II  REMBRANDT  study  (DRI2440)  was  a 
dose-response study conducted in patients with a bodyweight of 50-100 kg and tested 5 mg, 7.5 mg 
and  10  mg  once  daily  sc  fondaparinux  versus  q12h  sc  dalteparin  in  the  initial  treatment  of 
symptomatic proximal DVT. Two pivotal phase III non-inferiority studies using the proposed weight 
adjusted dosing scheme (5mg <50kg, 7.5mg in 50-100kg, 10mg >100kg) were performed: one double-
blind  enoxaparin-controlled  study  in  the  curative  treatment  of  DVT  (MATISSE-DVT-  study 
EFC2441) and one open-label UFH-controlled study in the curative treatment of PE (MATISSE-PE- 
study 63121). All studies were performed in compliance with the GCP regulations effective in Europe, 
North  America  and  Australia.  In  addition,  clinical  protocols,  amendments  to  the  protocols,  patient 
informed  consents  were  reviewed  and  approved  by  independent  Ethics  Committee  or  Institutional 
Review Board.  
Overall, the development program randomised 4,874 patients, as follows. 
32/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomised  Patients
Randomized  Patients
N = 4874
N = 4874
Randomized  Patients 
Randomised Patients 
in fondaparinux sodium group
in fondaparinux sodium group
N = 2537 
N = 2537 
Randomized  Patients 
Randomised  Patients 
in comparator groups 
in comparator groups 
N = 2337 
N = 2337 
DRI 2440 
DRI 2440 
DRI 2440 
N = 336 
N = 336 
N = 336 
63123
63123
63123
N = 1103 
N = 1103 
N = 1103 
EFC 2441
EFC 2441
EFC 2441
N = 1098 
N = 1098 
N = 1098 
DRI 2440 
DRI 2440 
DRI 2440 
( dalteparin
( dalteparin
( dalteparin
sodium) 
sodium) 
sodium) 
N =120
N =120
N =120
63123 
63123 
63123 
(UFH) 
(UFH) 
(UFH) 
N =1110 
N =1110 
N =1110 
EFC 2441 
EFC 2441 
EFC 2441 
( enoxaparin 
( enoxaparin 
( enoxaparin 
sodium) 
sodium) 
sodium) 
N =1107 
N =1107 
N =1107 
Fondaparinux 
Fondaparinux 
sodium 5 mg 
sodium 5 mg 
N = 104 
N = 104 
Fondaparinux 
Fondaparinux 
sodium 10 mg 
sodium 10 mg 
N = 121 
N = 121 
Fondaparinux 
Fondaparinux 
sodium 7.5 mg 
sodium 7.5 mg 
N = 111 
N = 111 
Fondaparinux sodium  
Fondaparinux sodium  
‘proposed regimen’ 
‘proposed regimen’ 
N = 2312 
N = 2312 
3.2 
Pharmacokinetics 
Bioequivalence 
The clinical formulation employed in the phase II and phase III Matisse-DVT study was identical to 
that used for the clinical trials presented in the original prophylaxis dossier. In the formulation used for 
the other phase III study (Matisse-PE), the fondaparinux sodium concentration was increased to 12.5 
mg/ml in anticipation of the market formulation. The bioequivalence of the new formulation and the 
reference formulation has been shown with respect to both rate and extent of absorption. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
The pharmacokinetics were evaluated on Days 1 and 5. The results show a tendency towards a non-
proportional  dose-concentration  relationship  (AUC  is  increased  by  50%  when  doubling  the  dose) 
indicating  that  a  non-linear  process  is  occurring.  It  has  been  previously  shown  in  vitro  that  protein 
binding is saturated above 2 mg/l. Since the effect and bleeding events of fondaparinux are related to 
drug bound to antithrombin, saturated binding could hypothetically result in approaching the maximal 
effect.  Further  to  a  request  from  CHMP,  the  Applicant  has  provided  data  showing  that,  within  the 
concentration range achieved with 5-10 mg fondaparinux once daily (up to 3 mg/l), AT III binding is 
not saturated. Increasing the dose further may result in a saturation of AT III binding. 
A  comparison  of  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  observed  in  patients  with  DVT  at  a  regimen  of 
10 mg  fondaparinux  (study  DRI2440)  with  data  obtained  in  healthy  volunteer  studies  (previous 
dossier) indicates a close similarity in the PK of fondaparinux in the 2 populations, suggesting that the 
PK  observations  in  previous  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  hold  true  for  the  patient  population  under 
discussion.  
In addition, a detailed NONMEM population PK analysis was conducted pooling all PK data obtained 
in  studies  DRI2440,  EFC2441  and  63121  investigating  numerous  possible  covariate  relationships 
(gender, age, body weight, renal function, etc) and their effect on the kinetics of fondaparinux. Renal 
function  was  identified  as  the  most  important  covariate  affecting  clearance,  and  the  simulations 
demonstrated  that  with  dosage  adjusted  to  renal  function,  variability  in  exposure  can  be  reduced. 
Hence, for fondaparinux, dosage primarily according to renal function would be the optimal posology. 
However, given the data available, the CHMP did not find that a change from the weight-based dosage 
used in clinical trials to renal function-based dosage would be possible in the present application.  
Having  identified  renal  function  as  the  most  important  variable  affecting  exposure  to  fondaparinux, 
the CHMP raised several questions to better understand the kinetic and dynamic findings in patients 
with  moderate  or  severe  renal  impairment.  As  seen  from  the  applicant’s  response,  the  numbers  of 
33/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects  with  CLcr  30-40  and  40-50  ml/min  are  fairly  large  (129  and  189,  respectively).  Although 
there is a clear trend to increased incidence of VTE and bleedings in severe renal impairment (CLcr 
20-30  ml/min)  –  see  below,  the  data  for  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  do  not  raise  new 
concerns and do not reveal any clear differences between patients with CLcr 30-40 and 40-50 ml/min. 
It should be noted, however, that the majority of patients with moderate renal impairment had a body 
weight of 50-100 kg and that there is truly limited information in patients with low body weight and 
moderate renal impairment, and no information in patients with high body weight and moderate renal 
impairment. 
Patients with Severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 ml/min) 
Patients with CLcr 20-30 ml/min treated with fondaparinux is a small subgroup (n=57) which showed 
an  increased  rate  of  major  bleeding,  an  increased  rate  of  “any  bleeding”,  an  increased  frequency  of 
transfusion,  and  an  increased  frequency  of  haemoglobin  (Hb)  decrease  ≥2  g/dl,  compared  with  both 
enoxaparin  and  UFH.  This  applies  specifically  in  patients  with  body  weight  between  50-100  kg 
(n=36).  Almost  no  clinical  information  is  available  in  severe  renally  impaired  patients  with  low  or 
high body weight. Based on the paucity of clinical experience, the CHMP considers that fondaparinux 
should  be  contra-indicated  in  patients  with  severe  renal  failure  (CLcr  <30  ml/min),  regardless  of 
bodyweight. 
Patients with Moderate renal impairment (CL cr 30-50 ml/min) 
The phase III data obtained in a large number of 50-100 kg patients with moderate renal failure treated 
with fondaparinux showed that the safety of fondaparinux was at least similar to that of enoxaparin or 
UFH,  both  in  fondaparinux  patients  with  either  CLcr  40-50  ml/min  (n=189)  or  CLcr  30-40  ml/min 
(n=129).  Thus,  in  50-100  kg  patients  with  moderate  renal  failure  treated  with  7.5  mg  fondaparinux 
there was no increase in either “major bleeding” or “any bleeding”, and no increase in the percentage 
of patients requiring transfusion nor in the percentage of patients with Hb decrease ≥2 g/dl compared 
with patients on enoxaparin or UFH. The CHMP therefore accept that the study dose regimen of 7.5 
mg daily should be the SPC dose regimen in these patients. 
There is no clinical experience in patients weighing >100 kg with moderate renal impairment. This is 
reflected in the SPC. As the pharmacokinetics of fondaparinux are more dependent on renal function 
than on body weight, heavy weight patients with moderate renal impairment are expected to have an 
increased  exposure  with  the  10  mg  dose  used  in  clinical  trials.  A  lower  dose  might  be  sufficient; 
indeed,  a  subsequent  pharmacokinetic  analysis  has  shown  that  this  sub-group  is  expected  to  have  a 
mean AUC up to 35 mg⋅h/l. Reducing the dose to 7.5 mg would reduce the exposure to a mean AUC 
of  up  to  27  mg⋅h/l,  which  would  be  more  in  line  with  the  exposure  in  normal  weight  patients  with 
moderate  renal  impairment.  If  fondaparinux  administration  is  necessary  in  this  patient  group,  and 
based on PK simulation data, a reduction of the daily dose to 7.5 mg daily may be considered (after an 
initial 10 mg dose on Day 1 if renal status is not available at the time of starting treatment).  
Appropriate warnings in patients of low body weight and patients of high body weight with moderate 
renal impairment have been added to the SPC. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The clinical pharmacology of fondaparinux was reviewed in the original application for prophylactic 
use  in  MOSLL.  As  a  result  of  its  specific  anti-factor  Xa  activity,  fondaparinux  at  prophylactic 
concentrations produces minimal changes in aPTT, activated clotting time, INR, or thrombin time.  
Two additional pharmacodynamic studies have been submitted in support of the present application. 
The  first  is  the  investigation  of  the  dose-response  relationship  within  the  phase  II  Rembrandt  study  
with respect to PD markers such as the thrombin-antithrombin complex, D-dimer, aPTT - for details of 
the study design see later. Decreases  in D-dimers and TAT levels,  the  latter  somewhat  dose-related, 
were  observed  on  Day 5±1  in  the  4  treatment  groups  (5,  7.5  and  10  mg  fondaparinux  sodium,  and 
dalteparin  sodium),  without  significant  differences  between  groups.  A  slight  increase  in  aPTT  was 
observed on Day 7±1 in the 3 fondaparinux treatment groups and in the dalteparin sodium group in the 
34/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
presence of concomitant VKA therapy. The changes in aPTT seem dose-dependent but moderate, of 
similar  amplitude  to  those  observed  with  dalteparin  and  difficult  to  interpret  in  the  presence  of 
concomitant  VKA  treatment.  Thus,  monitoring  of  the  pharmacodynamic  activity  of  fondaparinux 
sodium by aPTT does not seem appropriate. 
Fondaparinux  sodium  has  been  shown  in  healthy  subjects  not  to  interact  with  the  pharmacokinetics 
and pharmacodynamics of warfarin. During the VTE treatment studies, the pharmacodynamic activity 
of VKA (started within 72 hours of randomisation) was assessed by INR. No differences between the 
treatment groups were recorded in either the mean INR values achieved at the end of the study drug 
administration  period  or  in  the  time  to  reach  an  INR  ≥2.0.  Somewhat  more  fondaparinux  treated 
patients had an INR >3 at the time of study drug discontinuation as compared with the active controls. 
Unfortunately,  the  mean  doses  of  VKA  at  discontinuation  of  study  drug  in  the  different  treatment 
groups,  requested  by  CHMP,  were  not  recorded  during  the  studies.  The  Applicant  has  subsequently 
clarified that fondaparinux increases the prothrombin time to a slight extent, an effect judged to be of 
minor clinical relevance.  
Age and renal function play a major role on fondaparinux elimination and there is an increased risk of 
dangerously high levels in these fragile populations. Further to a request from CHMP, the Applicant 
has  addressed  the  question  of  whether  indirectly  monitoring  fondaparinux  concentrations  by 
measuring plasma factor Xa levels could be considered in fragile patients. The Applicant refers to the 
difficulties  in  defining  a  therapeutic  range  and  concludes  that  it  is  not  useful.  However,  it  may  in 
selected cases be regarded as desirable  by the treating physician to have the possibility to check the 
plasma levels achieved in fragile patients, especially when treatment is prolonged. The situation can 
be compared to that of LMWH, where monitoring of plasma levels is seldom part of clinical routine 
but can be easily determined by chromogenic substrate tests in selected cases. Similar tests could be 
performed for estimation of fondaparinux concentrations. To this effect, and despite the absence of a 
treatment  target  range,  information  on  the  fondaparinux  plasma  concentrations  obtained  during 
treatment  with  fondaparinux  in  the  clinical  studies  (as  estimated  by  FXa  inhibition  assay)  has  been 
provided in the SPC. 
Further to a request from CHMP it has been demonstrated that the concentration of antithrombin is not 
significantly reduced during short-term treatment with fondaparinux. In addition, an in vitro study of 
the inhibition rate constants for different coagulation factors seems to demonstrate that fondaparinux 
inhibits  activated  factor  IX  substantially  less  than  UFH  and  LMWH  at  the  typical  molar 
concentrations  achieved  during  treatment.  The  inhibition  of  FVIIa  by  fondaparinux  and  LMWH, 
however, seems to be comparable at these concentrations.  
The  other  pharmacodynamic  study  (63128)  was  undertaken  to  address  the  uncertainty  of  how  to 
clinically  handle  a  major  bleeding  event  during  fondaparinux  treatment,  considering  the  rather  long 
half life of the agent and the lack of antidotes with documented efficacy. It was a phase I interaction 
study to investigate the PK and PD of recombinant factor VIIa (rVIIa; 90 µg/kg IV) on the inhibition 
of thrombin generation by Arixtra (10 mg sc) in 16 healthy male volunteers. The results showed that 
rVIIa  partially  reverses  the  pharmacological  effect  of  fondaparinux  and  in  fact  activates  the 
coagulation cascade. However, the observed effect was only partial and some inhibition of factor Xa 
persisted. Therefore, an increased bleeding tendency may continue that requires additional awareness. 
There  is  not  yet  any  clinical  evidence  available  on  the  translation  of  the  reversal  properties  of  this 
agent into a rapid cessation of bleeding complications and whether the counteracting pharmacological 
effect of recombinant factor VIIa would not lead to a procoagulant status. In view of the above, it is 
premature  to  include  a  recommendation  in  the  SmPC  to  use  rVIIa  in  case  of  severe  uncontrollable 
bleeding.  
Discussion 
The main discussion at CHMP has centred around the most appropriate dosing schedule. The 2 main 
alternatives considered were either according to body weight, as used in the pivotal phase III trials and 
proposed  by  the  MAH,  or  according  to  renal  function  using  creatinine  clearance  cut-off  values  to 
recommend particular doses – see clinical efficay discussion for more details.  
35/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unfortunately,  there  are  few  PK  data  in  patients  with  Major  Bleedings  and,  as  discussed  for  the 
original prophylaxis dossier, it is not possible to determine an exposure (ie. Anti-Xa) cut-off value that 
would predict a higher risk of bleeding or VTE recurrence.  
Finally, the results of a pharmacodynamic study failed to show an effective antiacoagulant profile of 
rVIIa.  Hence,  to  date,  there  is  no  known  antidote  to  fondaparinux,  and  this  has  been  included  in 
section 4.9 of the SPC. 
3.3 
Clinical efficacy  
1.4.3.1   Dose response studies 
Study DRI2440 is the basis for the dose selection for the pivotal studies. This study was a multicentre, 
randomised, double-blind study testing in parallel 5, 7,5 and 10 mg of fondaparinux once daily by sc 
injections  versus  dalteparin  in  the  initial  treatment  of  DVT  without  symptomatic  PE.  Fondaparinux 
was  administered  for  a  minimum  of  5  days  and  until  the  INR  was  ≥2.0  at  two  consecutive 
measurements and up to a maximum of 10 days. An oral AVK, adjusted for INR between 2 and 3, was 
initiated on day 1 or day 2 and continued for 3 months.  
Males  or  females  (of  non-childbearing  potential  or  with  negative  pregnancy  tests  and  contraceptive 
protection)  of  18  years  or  older  with  a  compression  ultrasonography  (US)-confirmed  symptomatic 
proximal DVT were included. Main exclusion criteria were symptomatic PE, body weight <50 kg or 
>100 kg and known renal insufficiency. The intention to treat (ITT) population included 438 patients, 
of which 396 were included in the per protocol (PP) population. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  change  (improvement,  no  change  or  worsening  of  thrombus 
mass) between baseline and Day 7±1 in the composite of US of the venous bed of the lower limbs and 
perfusion  lung  scan  (PLS).  A  positive  outcome  was  defined  as  an  improvement  in  US  and/or  PLS 
results  without  deterioration  of  either  test,  and  a  negative  outcome  resulted  in  all  other  instances, 
including  death  occurring  less  than  24  hours  following  the  last  day  of  study  drug  administration. 
Secondary efficacy criteria were the incidence of patients with symptomatic recurrence or extension of 
VTE during the entire study (including the study drug period from day 1 up to 48 hours after the last 
administration  and  a  follow-up  up  to  day  90),  and  the  US  and  PLS  results  analysed  separately.  The 
primary  safety  endpoint  was  the  incidence  of  major  and  minor  bleeding  events.  Related  bleeding 
criteria  were assessed by haemoglobin (Hb) levels and transfusions. Primary and secondary efficacy 
endpoints,  the  primary  safety  endpoint  and  death  were  evaluated  blindly  by  an  independent 
adjudication committee (IAC). 
Results 
The  following  tables  present  the  PP  population  results;  similar  results  were  observed  for  the  ITT 
population. 
Table 1 Primary endpoint: Number (%) of patients with a positive outcome 
Positive 
Outcome 
n (%) 
95% CI 
5 mg  
(N=84) 
39 (46.4%) 
[35.47; 57.65] 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
7.5 mg 
(N=99) 
49 (49.5%) 
[39.29; 59.73] 
10 mg 
(N=106) 
46 (43.4%) 
[33.80; 53.37] 
Total 
(N=289) 
134 (46.4%) 
[40.51; 52.30] 
Dalteparin 
Sodium 
(N=107) 
50 (46.7%) 
[37.02; 56.62] 
No dose effect was observed for the primary endpoint. Pairwise comparisons between the different 
dose groups or between these groups and the dalteparin sodium group did not show any significant 
differences. Similarly, the comparison of the pooled fondaparinux results with the dalteparin group did 
not show a significant difference [relative risk of 0.992 (95% CI: 0.76; 1.34)]. 
36/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 - Number (%) of patients with worsening, no change or improvement in US  
Outcome 
(Day 7±1) 
Improvement 
No change 
Worsening 
Inadequate/not done 
5 mg  
(N=84) 
29 (34.9%) 
49 (59.0%) 
5 (6.0%) 
1 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
7.5 mg 
(N=99) 
25 (25.3%) 
70 (70.7%) 
4 (4.0%) 
0 
10 mg 
(N=106) 
32 (30.5%) 
67 (63.8%) 
6 (5.7%) 
1 
Total 
(N=289) 
86 (30.0%) 
186 (64.8%) 
15 (5.2%) 
2 
Dalteparin 
Sodium 
(N=107) 
33 (30.8%) 
70 (65.4%) 
4 (3.7%) 
0 
Table 3 - Number (%) of patients with worsening, no change or improvement in PLS results 
Conclusion on 
Baseline PLS 
No perfusion 
defect 
Perfusion defect  Improvement 
Outcome 
(Day 7±1) 
Unchanged 
Worsening 
Whatever the 
baseline 
Unchanged 
Worsening 
Improvement 
Unchanged 
Worsening 
5 mg  
(N=84) 
13 (15.5%) 
1 (1.2%) 
23 (27.4%) 
37 (44.0%) 
10 (11.9%) 
23 (27.4%) 
50 (59.5%) 
11 (13.1%) 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
7.5 mg 
(N=99) 
10 (10.1%) 
1 (1.0%) 
45 (45.5%) 
36 (36.4%) 
7 (7.1%) 
45 (45.5%) 
46 (46.5%) 
8 (8.1%) 
10 mg 
(N=106) 
29 (27.4%) 
1 (0.9%) 
31 (29.2%) 
37 (34.9%) 
8 (7.5%) 
31 (29.2%) 
66 (62.3%) 
9 (8.5%) 
Total 
(N=289) 
52 (18.0%) 
3 (1.0%) 
99 (34.3%) 
110 (38.1%) 
25 (8.7%) 
99 (34.3%) 
162 (56.1%) 
28 (9.7%) 
Dalteparin 
Sodium 
(N=107) 
14 (13.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
31 (29.0%) 
49 (45.8%) 
13 (12.1%) 
31 (29.0%) 
63 (58.9%) 
13 (12.1%) 
While there was no obvious dose effect for the US evaluation, fewer patients in the 7.5 mg or 10 mg 
dose groups tended to experience a worsening of pulmonary perfusion defects compared with either 
the 5 mg fondaparinux group or the dalteparin group.  
Table 4 -Symptomatic adjudicated recurrent VTE occurring during the entire study - All treated patients 
Symptomatic 
VTEs 
DVT alone 
Non-fatal PE 
Total VTE 
95% CI 
5 mg  
(N=103) 
2 (1.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (1.9%) 
[0.24; 6.84] 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
7.5 mg 
(N=111) 
2 (1.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (1.8%) 
[0.22; 6.36] 
10 mg 
(N=120) 
1 (0.8%) 
3 (2.5%) 
4 (3.3%) 
[0.92; 8.31] 
Total 
(N=334) 
5 (1.5%) 
3 (0.9%) 
8 (2.4%) 
[1.04; 4.66] 
Dalteparin 
Sodium 
(N=119) 
3 (2.5%) 
3 (2.5%) 
6 (5.0%) 
[1.87; 10.65] 
No significant differences between the different groups were observed. However, it is worth noting 
that the 2 clinical recurrences in the 5 mg group occurred during the study drug treatment period. 
Regarding the safety endpoints, no dose effects were observed for either “all bleedings” or major 
bleedings (MB) alone. 
Table 5. The number (%) [95% CI] of patients with a bleeding event during the treatment period. 
Fondaparinux 
10 mg 
(N=120) 
1 (0.83) 
[0.02; 4.56 ] 
5 (4.17) 
[1.37; 9.46] 
6 (5.00) 
[1.86; 10.57] 
Total Fondaparinux 
(N=334)  
6 (1.80) 
[0.66; 3.87] 
17 (5.09) 
[2.99; 8.02] 
23 (6.89) 
[4.42; 10.15] 
7.5 mg 
(N=111) 
2 (1.80) 
[0.22 ; 6.36 ] 
7 (6.31) 
[2.57; 12.56] 
9 (8.11) 
[3.77; 14.83] 
5 mg 
(N=103) 
3 (2.91) 
[0.60; 8.28] 
5 (4.85) 
[1.59; 10.97] 
8 (7.77) 
[3.41; 14.73] 
Patients With 
Major  
Bleeding (MB) 
Minor  
bleeding only 
All bleedings 
(N=119) 
0 (0.00) 
[0.00; 3.05] 
13 (10.92) 
[5.95; 17.96] 
13 (10.92) 
[5.95; 17.96] 
Dalteparin 
No  fatal  bleeding  and  no  bleeding  into  a  critical  organ  were  adjudicated.  Four  of  the  6  MB  events 
occurred  at  the  site  of  a  cancer  lesion  (two  each  in  the  5  mg  and  7.5  mg  groups),  one  (thigh 
haematoma  in  the  5  mg  group)  occurred  in  the  presence  of  a  high  INR  (4.7  and  4.4)  on  the  days 
preceding  the  day  of  the  symptom,  and  one  was  an  abdominal  wall  haematoma  at  the  injection  site 
reported in the 10 mg group.  
37/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  summary,  despite  the  failure  of  study  DRI2440  to  demonstrate  a  clear  dose  relationship,  the 
selection  of  the  dose  for  the  phase  III  studies  was  made  based  on  the  following  considerations:  i) 
treatment with fondaparinux sodium 7.5 or 10 mg doses was associated with less frequent worsening 
of the perfusion lung scan than treatment with fondaparinux sodium 5 mg or dalteparin sodium, ii) the 
only  clearly  product-related  MB  with  no  mitigating  circumstances  occurred  in  the  10  mg  group,  iii) 
two clinical recurrences occurred in the 5 mg group during study drug treatment and iv) the thrombin-
antithrombin complex (TAT) levels were higher in the 5 mg dose group.  
1.4.3.2   Main studies 
Methods 
The  two  multinational,  multicentre,  randomised,  parallel-group  phase  III  studies  were  of  similar 
design. Matisse DVT (study EFC2441) was double-blind  and included patients with confirmed (US or 
venography) DVT in the trifurcation of the calf veins, or more proximally. Matisse PE (study 63123) 
was  open-label  and  enrolled  patients  with  confirmed  (ventilation/perfusion  lung  scan,  pulmonary 
angiography, spiral CT) PE. Body weight-adjusted doses of fondaparinux given qd subcutaneously (5 
mg <50 kg, 7.5 mg for 50-100 kg, and 10 mg for >100 kg) were compared with 1mg/kg enoxaparin 
sodium q12h in the DVT study and with an iv infusion of UFH, adjusted to aPTT (target of 1.5-2.5 x 
control),  in  the  PE  study.  In  both  studies,  study  drugs  were  to  be  administered  for  at  least  5 
consecutive  days  and  could  be  stopped  when  the  INR  was  above  2.0  on  two  consecutive  days. 
Concomitant AVK therapy was to be initiated as soon as possible and usually within 72 hours after the 
first study drug administration (on Day 1), with dose adjustments to achieve a target INR of 2.5 (range 
2.0 to 3.0), and was to be continued up to Day 90. Treatment with study drugs had to be started within 
6 hours after randomisation.  
In Matisse PE, randomised patients could have been pre-treated with UFH during the screening phase, 
but  patients  that  had  been  on  anticoagulant  treatment  for  more  than  24  hours  before  randomisation 
were  excluded.  Other  exclusion  criteria  were  a  serum  creatinine  level  >2.0  mg/dl  (180  µmol/l, 
uncontrolled hypertension, and patients requiring thrombolyis or embolectomy or vena cava filter. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  for  both  studies  was  recurrent  VTE  recorded  up  to  the  end  of  the 
follow-up period (Day 97), as adjudicated by a blinded Central Independent Adjudication Committee 
(CIAC)  and  composed  of  i)  symptomatic  non-fatal  VTE  (DVT  and/or  PE)  and  ii)  fatal  VTE  (death 
related to VTE or for which VTE could not be ruled out). The secondary efficacy endpoints included 
the individual components of the primary efficacy endpoint, investigator-suspected VTE recurrences 
up to Day 97, and the primary endpoint at the end of the study drug treatment period. 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  included  all  randomised  patients.  A  secondary  efficacy  analysis  was 
performed on the PP population. The primary analysis of both studies computed the difference in the 
crude VTE rates between the two treatment groups (fondaparinux minus enoxaparin or UFH) with its 
2-sided 95% CI. The pre-specified non-inferiority margin for both studies was 3.5%. 
Results 
The baseline demographics and risk factors were essentially similar in both pivotal studies (EFC2441, 
63123) and the dose finding study (DRI2440).  
Diagnostic measures and treatment compliance 
The duration of study drug treatment was very similar in the treatment groups in all 3 trials (mean of 7 
days). The DVT diagnosis (EFC2441 study) was confirmed by US in 95%, by venography in 4% or by 
both in 1% of cases. The PE diagnosis (study 63123) was confirmed by either a high probability lung 
scan or a positive spiral CT scan (in approximately equal numbers) in the majority of cases, or by a 
pulmonary angiogram in 50 cases. Inclusion in study 63123 was based on a non-high probability lung 
scan combined with a confirmed DVT in approximately 8% of cases.  
AVK was introduced on day 1 or earlier in 56% of EFC2441 patients and 60 % of 63123 patients, and 
the large majority of patients (98-99%) started the AVK treatment within the first 3 study days.  
38/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main efficacy results are displayed in the tables below. 
Table 6. Study EFC2441 Summary of efficacy results up to Day 97. - Number (%) of patients,  
Endpoint 
Total VTE 
DVT only 
Non-fatal PE 
Fatal VTE 
PP analysis 
Total VTE 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
(N=1098) 
43 (3.9%) 
18 (1.6%) 
20 (1.8%) 
5 (0.5%) 
Enoxaparin Sodium 
(N=1107) 
45 (4.1%) 
28 (2.5%) 
12 (1.1%) 
5 (0.5%) 
95% CI for Difference 
-1.8%; 1.5% 
(N=988) 
34 (3.4%) 
(N=976) 
42 (4.3%) 
-2.6%; 0.8% 
Table 7 Study 63123 Summary of efficacy results up to Day 97, - Number (%) of patients,  
E n d p o in t 
F o n d a p a r in u x  
so d iu m
U F H
9 5 %  C I fo r
d iffe r e n c e  
P rim a r y a n a ly sis (a ll ra n d o m ise d ) 
ti
t )
T o ta l V T E  
D V T  o n ly 
N o n  F a ta l P E  
F a ta l e v e n t 
P P  a n a lysis 
T o ta l V T E  
N = 1 1 0 3  
4 2  (3 .8  % )
1 2  (1 .1  % )
1 4  (1 .3  % )
1 6  (1 .5  % )
N = 9 2 0
2 7  (2 .9  % )
N = 1 1 1 0  
5 6  (5 .0  % ) 
1 7  (1 .5  % ) 
2 4  (2 .2  % ) 
1 5  (1 .4  % ) 
N = 7 9 4
3 5  (4 .4  % ) 
-3 .0 %  –  0 .5 %  
-3 .3 %  –  0 .3 %  
Overall, the non-inferiority criteria were fulfilled in both studies; the upper limit of the 95% CI is well 
below the predefined  non-inferiority margin  of 3.5:  0.8 (PP) and 1.5 (“all randomised”) in the  DVT 
study and 0.3 (PP) and 0.5 (“all randomised”) in the PE study. The impression from the results is that 
fondaparinux is approximately as efficacious as enoxaparin and at least as efficacious, possibly better, 
than UFH. 
The following graph depicts the symptomatic recurrent VTE cumulative event rates up to Day 97 in 
studies EFC2441 and 63123 for all randomised patients. 
39/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As can be seen in the graph, in study EFC244 there were numerically more symptomatic recurrences 
during the study drug treatment period with fondaparinux (18 recurrences, 1.6%) than with enoxaparin 
(10,  0.9%),  but  this  difference  was  not  statistically  significant.  The  Applicant  has  provided  case 
summaries  for  all  patients  experiencing  fatal  PE  during  the  initial  treatment  period  (7  vs.  8  in  the 
pooled  fondaparinux  comparator  groups,  respectively)  and  no  specific  concerns  arise  from  these 
analyses.  A  lack  of  anti-inflammatory  effects  of  fondaparinux,  as  compared  with  LMWH  and  UFH, 
could  possibly have contributed to  this  numerical  difference. Moreover, a reverse  trend  in favour  of 
fondaparinux was observed in study 63123 as during the initial treatment period, 12 (1.1%) patients 
treated with fondaparinux sodium and 19 (1.7%) patients treated with UFH had a VTE endpoint. 
The MAH has provided comparisons of the results in different subgroups and there is no evidence of 
any effect of demographic or baseline characteristics on the efficacy results. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The choice of comparator, design and conduct of the dose selection study are acceptable and in line 
with the NfG document, although a more common approach to evaluate optimal doses for new anti-
thrombotic  agents  for  DVT  treatment  has  been  to  use  scoring  systems  (e.g.  Marder  score)  based  on 
repeated ascending venography for comparisons. The results were less informative than expected and 
the support for the selected doses is somewhat limited, although the MAH’s arguments for the choice 
of 7.5 mg dose are reasonable. It should be noted that it has been difficult to demonstrate clear dose-
response  relationships  for  other  anti-thrombotic  agents  in  earlier  similar  studies,  also  when  repeated 
venography has been utilised 
The  two  phase  III  studies  are  large,  well  designed,  adequately  performed  and  are  considered  to  be 
informative.  Efficacy  of  fondaparinux  with  regard  to  the  composite  primary  endpoint  (non-fatal 
symptomatic VTE or fatal VTE) that is non-inferior to enoxaparin in DVT treatment and to UFH in 
PE treatment has been demonstrated. The VTE rate observed in the enoxaparin reference group was 
consistent with historical data and the protocol hypothesis. However, overall mortality and mortality 
rates  linked  to  PE  were  lower  in  the  Matisse  PE  study  when  compared  to  data  from  published 
registries (such as Icoper and Mappet) and data from the Columbus study. Further to a request from 
CHMP it has become apparent that the these lower rates can probably be explained by differences in 
the included patient populations. Thus, there is limited experience with Arixtra in haemodynamically 
unstable patients and no experience in patients requiring thrombolysis, embolectomy or insertion of a 
40/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vena  cava  filter,  as  these  latter  3  categories  of  patients  were  excluded  from  the  Matisse-PE  trial. 
Therefore,  the  indication  has  been  amended  accordingly  and  a  relevant  warning  statement  has  been 
introduced in section 4.4 of the SPC.  
The  major  discussion  at  CHMP  centred  on  the  most  appropriate  dosing  schedule.  The  two  main 
alternatives considered  were  dosing according to  body  weight,  as used in the  pivotal  phase III trials 
and proposed by the MAH, or according to renal function using creatinine clearance cut-off values to 
recommend particular doses. The NONMEM population PK analysis indicated that dosing primarily 
according  to  renal  function  provided  the  most  consistent  exposure  levels  in  the  various  patient 
populations  and  might  be  considered  as  the  most  optimal  posology.  Thus,  several  potential  dosing 
schedules were discussed, notably one of 7.5 mg daily in patients with CLcr > 50 ml/min and 7.5 mg 
on  Day  1  and  thereafter  5  mg  daily  for  CLcr  of  20-50  ml/min.  Despite  the  clear  dose-exposure 
relationship for bleeding (the  main safety concern with Arixtra) seen in dose-ranging studies for the 
prophylaxis  indication,  major  bleeding  events,  as  anticipated,  were  few  in  the  studied  “treatment” 
population,  making  major  bleeding  a  poorly  sensitive  marker  for  detecting  differences  between 
subgroups or for predictions regarding risk in clinical practice. No correlation could  be found in the 
data  submitted  for  this  application  between  exposure  and  either  efficacy  or  safety  endpoints,  and 
bleeding rates in patients at risk were similar between fondaparinux and the comparators. Moreover, 
the possibility of underexposure is a major concern when treating patients with life-threatening VTE. 
Therefore, in view of the available data, the CHMP decided against a change from the weight-based 
dosage tested in the clinical trials to a renal function-based dosage derived from kinetic modelling.  
3.4 
Clinical safety 
A  total  of  4829  patients  were  randomised  and  treated  in  the  3  studies.  The  total  patient  population 
exposed  is  large,  with  2,294  patients  receiving  the  fondaparinux  proposed  dose  regimen  of  7.5  mg. 
The duration of exposure to active study drug was similar for the fondaparinux and comparator groups 
(mean duration 7 days) and there is limited exposure with fondaparinux (5 % of patients) beyond 10 
days. This is reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
The incidence of SAEs grouped by WHO organ class was low, dominated by bleedings and with no 
differences between the treatment groups. 
The overall rate of permanent study drug treatment discontinuation due to AEs was low and similar in 
the fondaparinux and enoxaparin treatment groups (1.6 % and 2.3 %, respectively). In MATISSE-PE, 
it  was  slightly  lower  in  the  fondaparinux  than  in  the  UFH  treatment  group  (2.0  %  and  3.2%, 
respectively, excluding deaths). 
Bleeding and bleeding-related criteria 
The  percentages  of  patients  with  major  bleedings  (MB)  were  similar  between  fondaparinux  and  the 
comparator  groups  during  the  study  drug  treatment  period  and  during  the  whole  study  period.  Most 
clinically  overt  MB  were  considered  major  because  of  a  fall  in  Hb  and/or  the  need  for  blood 
transfusion, and there was a slight tendency for more clinically serious bleedings in the fondaparinux 
group during the study drug treatment period. 
Table 8 - Number (%) of patients with MB events during study drug treatment period by adjudication 
criterion - As treated patients 
Adjudication Criteria 
Any major bleeding 
Bleeding event contributing to death 
during treatment period 
Non-fatal clinically overt bleeding 
within a critical organ 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
Proposed 
10 mg 
5 mg 
Daltepari
n 
Enoxaparin 
(>100 kg)  Sodium 
Sodium 
UFH 
(<50kg) 
(N=103) 
3 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Regimen 
(N=2294)
(N=120) 
28 (1.2%)  1 (0.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (0.1%) 
(N=119) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
(N=1101) 
13 (1.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
(N=1092) 
12 (1.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (0.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.1%) 
41/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 - intracranial 
 - retroperitoneal 
Non-fatal clinically overt bleeding 
associated with a fall in Hb ≥2 g/dl 
and/or leading to a transfusion of 
≥2 units of PRBC or whole blood   
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (0.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
22 (1.0%)  1 (0.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
13 (1.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.1%) 
10 
(0.9%) 
* it should be noted that for these 3 cases of intracranial haemorrhage one occurred following thrombolytic treatment of the 
PE and concomitant administration of UFH and aspirin, another in a patient who received only one injection of fondaparinux 
sodium and then received UFH and argatroban before occurrence of bleeding and the last one was multifocal intracranial 
bleeding in a patient with prostate cancer and high INR values (>7). 
Most of the patients who experienced fatal bleeds or bleeds into a critical organ had clear risk factors 
for  increased  bleeding  (malignancy,  cachexia,  administration  of  other  antihaemostatic  drugs).  In 
patients  with  major  bleeding,  “Supratherapeutic”  INR  (i.e.  >3)  was  more  frequently  observed  at  the 
time of bleeding in the fondaparinux patients (12 out of 28 MBs) than with the comparators (6 out of 
27 in the UFH/enoxaparin groups combined).  
The  percentages  of  transfused  patients  during  the  study  drug  treatment  period  were  similar  across 
treatment  groups  (1,5,  2.0,  1.8%  in  the  fondaparinux,  enoxaparin,  UFH  groups,  respectively). 
Significantly  more  fondaparinux  patients  tended  to  experience  a  Hb  decrease  of  ≥2  g/dl  than 
enoxaparin  patients,  and  a  similar  trend  was  observed  for  the  incidence  of  a  Hb  <8  g/l.  However, 
UFH-treated patients had the highest incidences in these parameters (Table 9). 
Table 9 - Number (%) of patients with a Hb <8 g/dl after start of study treatment and/or a decrease ≥2 
g/dl between baseline and the end of study drug treatment - As treated patients 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
Proposed 
Regimen 
(N=2294) 
23/2160 (1.1%) 
109/2107 (5.2%) 
13/2107 (0.6%) 
Enoxaparin 
Sodium 
(N=1101) 
7/1062 (0.7%) 
1 /87 (1.1%)  34/1053 (3.2%) 
4/1053 (0.4%) 
0 /87 (0.0%) 
0/118 (0.0%)  2/116 (1.7%) 
1 /94 (1.1%) 
0 /94 (0.0%) 
5 mg 
(50-100 kg) 
(N=103) 
0/100 (0.0%) 
2 /86 (2.3%) 
0 /86 (0.0%) 
UFH 
(N=1092) 
13/1014 (1.3%) 
67/993 (6.7%) 
5/993 (0.5%) 
Haemoglobin 
Value <8 g/dla,b 
Decrease ≥2 g/dlc 
Both 
10 mg 
(50-100 kg) 
(N=120) 
Dalteparin 
Sodium 
(N=119) 
As  observed  in  earlier  clinical  studies  with  fondaparinux,  there  was  a  tendency  to  an  increased 
incidence of bleedings with decreasing weight, malignancy, decreasing GFR and increasing age (3.0% 
4.5 % and 6.5 % in patients aged <65 years, 65-75 and >75 years, respectively). A relevant warning 
has been included in the SPC. Similar tendencies were seen in the comparator groups.  
42/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 Number (%) of patients with bleeding events (any bleeding) during the study drug treatment 
period according to selected baseline covariates - As treated patients 
Covariate  
Age 
<65 years   
[65-75[ years 
≥75 years  
Weight  
<50 kg  
[50-100] kg 
Fondaparinux Sodium 
5 mg  
(50-100 kg) 
(N=103) 
n/N (%) 
Proposed 
regimen 
(N=2294) 
n/N (%) 
10 mg  
(50-100 kg) 
(N=120) 
n/N (%) 
Dalteparin 
Sodium 
(N=119) 
n/N (%) 
Enoxaparin 
Sodium 
(N=1101) 
n/N (%) 
UFH 
(N=1092) 
n/N (%) 
3/48 (6.3) 
2/25 (8.0) 
3/30 (10.0) 
35/1151 (3.0) 
25/560 (4.5) 
38/583 (6.5) 
3/61 (4.9) 
0/38 (0.0) 
3/21 (14.3) 
1/48 (2.1) 
7/36 (19.4) 
5/35 (14.3) 
14/555 (2.5) 
10/280 (3.6) 
22/266 (8.3) 
29/526 (5.5) 
17/257 (6.6) 
23/309 (7.4) 
0/0 (NA) 
8/100 (8.0) 
3/53 (5.7) 
87/1986 (4.4) 
0/0 (NA) 
6/118 (5.1) 
0/3 (0.0) 
0/0 (NA) 
8/253 (3.2) 
0/2 (0.0) 
0/2 (0.0) 
0/0 (NA) 
1/2 (50.0) 
12/115 
(10.4) 
0/2 (0.0) 
0/0 (NA) 
0/24 (0.0) 
44/967 (4.6) 
2/25 (8.0) 
56/932 (6.0) 
2/110 (1.8) 
0/0 (NA) 
11/134 (8.2) 
0/1 (0.0) 
>100 kg  
Missing  
Neoplastic disease  
Active/past  
3/19 (15.8) 
5/84 (6.0) 
No known 
cancer  
Baseline creatinine clearance  
Missing 
<30ml/min  
[30-50[ml/min  
[50-80[ml/min  
≥80ml/min  
1/14 (7.1) 
1/4 (25.0) 
3/20 (15.0) 
0/26 (0.0) 
3/39 (7.7) 
28/390 (7.2)
70/1904 (3.7) 
1/23 (4.3) 
5/97 (5.2) 
3/20 (15.0) 
10/99 (10.1) 
20/186 (10.8)
26/915 (2.8)
13/176 (7.4) 
56/916 (6.1) 
3/56 (5.4) 
8/55 (14.5) 
21/318 (6.6) 
32/733 (4.4) 
34/1132 (3.0) 
0/20 (0.0) 
0/0 (NA) 
2/10 (20.0) 
1/41 (2.4) 
3/49 (6.1) 
0/25 (0.0) 
0/4 (0.0) 
4/17 (23.5) 
5/32 (15.6) 
4/41 (9.8) 
0/11 (0.0) 
2/18 (11.1) 
14/145 (9.7) 
17/368 (4.6) 
13/559 (2.3) 
1/27 (3.7) 
3/28 (10.7) 
18/162 (11.1) 
11/352 (3.1) 
36/523 (6.9) 
The  group  of  patients  <50  Kg  and  treated  with  fondaparinux  5  mg  is  very  small  (n=53)  and  an 
appropriate  warning  has  been  included  in  the  SPC.  Patients  with  a  body  weight  over  100  Kg  and 
treated with fondaparinux 10 mg are better represented (n=253).  
Around 23 % of phase III patients had had relatively recent surgery, although it was more than 3 days 
before study inclusion. Available data on type of surgery and delay between surgery and inclusion, as 
well  as  main efficacy  and safety outcomes indicate  that there  are no  significant differences between 
the treatment arms.  
Regarding deaths, most were related to cancer. The following table shows the Number (%) of patients 
who died between first injection and Day 97 by adjudication criterion. 
Table 11 
Fondaparinux 
Proposed 
Regimen 
(N=2294) 
19/2294(0.8%) 
8/2294(0.3%) 
76/2294(3.3%) 
52/2183(2.4%) 
19/2183(0.9%) 
103/2294(4.5%) 
Related to efficacy endpoint 
Related to bleeding event 
Related to other disease  
Related to cancera
Related to other disease than cancera 
Totalb
a. Information not available for DRI2440. 
b. Total deaths between first injection and Day 97 
Enoxaparin 
Sodium 
(N=1101) 
5/1101(0.5%) 
0/1101(0.0%) 
28/1101(2.5%) 
19/1101(1.7%) 
9/1101(0.8%) 
33/1101(3.0%) 
UFH 
(N=1092) 
15/1092(1.4%) 
1/1092(0.1%) 
32/1092(2.9%) 
22/1092(2.0%) 
10/1092(0.9%) 
48/1092(4.4%) 
43/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths in the individual phase III studies are summarised in the following table. 
Table 12 
EFC2441 (DVT) 
   Total deaths during initial treatmenta 
   Total deaths between first injection and day 97b 
63123 (PE) 
   Total deaths during initial treatmentc 
   Total deaths between first injection and day 97d 
a. Difference 95% CI=[0.1, 0.9%] 
b. Difference 95% CI=[-0.8, 2.3%] 
c. Difference 95% CI=[-1.1, 0.5%] 
d. Difference 95% CI=[-1.0, 2.6%] 
Fondaparinux 
Comparator 
Enoxaparin 
5 (0.5%) 
0 (0%) 
41 (3.8%) 
33 (3.0%) 
UFH 
9 (0.8%) 
12 (1.1%) 
57 (5.4%) 
50 (4.6%) 
There  were  no  significant  differences  in  overall  3-month  mortality  rates  in  the  individual  studies. 
There  was,  however,  a  tendency  towards  slightly  higher  mortality  in  the  fondaparinux  group,  with 
increased mortality due to bleedings and a trend to increased mortality due to cancer, which has been 
extensively  discussed  during  the  evaluation.  These  observations  are  not  judged  to  affect  the  overall 
benefit/risk assessment and it would appear difficult to draw any conclusions from these statistically 
non-significant trends. No such trends were seen in the comparison with UFH (Matisse PE study). 
During the study drug treatment period 14 deaths (0.6 %) were observed in the fondaparinux proposed 
regimen group versus 0/119 (0 %) with dalteparin, 0/1101 (0 %) with enoxaparin and 12/1092 (1.1 %) 
with  UFH.  In  Matisse  DVT,  deaths  during  the  study  drug  administration  period  were  significantly 
increased  in  the  fondaparinux  group:  5/1091  vs  0/1101  [p  =  0.03  Fisher’s  test].  Out  of  the  5  deaths 
during fondaparinux treatment, 2  patients  had a fatal bleed,  2 deaths were  related to cancer, and PE 
could  not  be  excluded  in  1.  In  Matisse  PE  alone,  there  were  6  deaths  during  the  study  drug 
administration period in the fondaparinux group versus 8 in the UFH group. The case reports of the 
fatal cases in the Matisse DVT studies have been reviewed and no specific safety concerns arise from 
these analyses. 
The  results  for  platelet  levels,  platelet  antibodies  and  hepatically  related  laboratory  tests  were 
consistent  with  previous  clinical  trials  and  post-marketing  experience,  and  no  specific  concerns  are 
identified in relation to the clinical laboratory results.  
1.4.4.1  Discussion on clinical safety 
As observed in earlier clinical studies of fondaparinux there is a tendency for an increased incidence 
of  bleedings  with  increasing  age,  decreasing  weight,  malignancy  and  decreasing  GFR.  The  clinical 
evidence and the experience from the pharmacodynamic studies point to a relation between bleeding 
tendency and fondaparinux exposure. Considering the pharmacokinetic characteristics of fondaparinux 
and the available safety data, it is considered that the adherence to the dosing recommendations and 
the  warnings  and  contraindications  introduced  in  the  SPC  will  ensure  an  adequate  exposure  in  the 
different patient subgroups.  
The observations regarding the observed bleeding incidences have been extensively discussed during 
the evaluation. It is concluded  that  the  bleeding tendency with fondaparinux  is of the same order  of 
magnitude as that observed with the comparators. Unfortunately, plasma samples for measurements of 
fondaparinux concentration in patients suffering from MB were not collected and there are insufficient 
44/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PK data in patients with MB to determine an exposure (ie. Anti-Xa) cut-off value that would predict a 
higher risk of bleeding. 
The incidences of other clinical adverse events did not differ between treatment groups and the pattern 
for  AEs  and  SAEs  was  also  consistent.  Similarly,  no  specific  concerns  were  identified  regarding 
platelet  levels,  platelet  antibodies  and  hepatically  related  laboratory  tests.  Platelet  monitoring  is  not 
considered justified in routine clinical practice.  
Finally,  the  safety  of  fondaparinux  at  curative  doses  has  not  been  assessed  in  patients  with 
very  recent  surgery  (<3  days),  and  has  been  adequately  reflected  with  the  inclusion  of  a 
warning in section 4.4 of the SPC.  
Overall Conclusion and Benefit Risk Assessment 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Preclinical  
No  additional  toxicological  studies  with  higher  doses  have  been  performed.  The  animal/human 
exposure ratios obtained for the recommended therapeutic treatment dose of 7.5 mg are sufficient to 
support  the  safety  of  Arixtra  for  the  intended  indication.  Nonetheless,  the  toxicological  profile  of 
fondaparinux is not fully characterised for this higher dose indication. Hence, the limited exposure in 
the repeated dose and reproduction toxicity studies has been reflected in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
Clinical 
The studies provided in support of the indications treatment of DVT and PE are large, well designed 
and  performed  and  are  considered  to  be  informative.  Efficacy  of  fondaparinux  with  regard  to  the 
composite  primary  endpoint  of  non-fatal  symptomatic  VTE  or  fatal  VTE  that  is  non-inferior  to 
enoxaparin in DVT treatment and to UFH in PE treatment has been demonstrated.  
Adequate safety has been demonstrated in patients with normal renal function and mild to moderate 
renal impairment with the weight based dosage regimen used in clinical trials. In patients with severe 
renal impairment (CLcr <30 ml/min), an increased rate of “major bleeding”, an increased rate of “any 
bleeding”, an increased frequency of transfusion, and an increased frequency of Hb decrease ≥2 g/dl 
compared  to  both  enoxaparin  and  UFH  was  observed.  Fondaparinux  should  therefore  be  contra-
indicated  in  patients  with  severe  renal  failure.  There  is  no  actual  clinical  experience  in  patients 
weighing  >100  kg  with  moderate  renal  impairment.  Based  on  pharmacokinetic  modelling  results,  a 
reduction of the daily dose to 7.5 mg daily may be considered after an initial 10 mg dose on Day 1 (if 
renal status is not available at the time of starting treatment) in this patient group.  
The once daily sc injection of fondaparinux will be easier to apply than the aPTT-adjusted IV infusion 
of  UFH  and  does  not  require  coagulation  monitoring  in  clinical  routine.  The  synthetic  nature  of 
fondaparinux  prevents  any  potential  infectious  contamination  compared  with  the  animal  sourced 
therapies. 
45/45 
                   EMEA 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
