London, 29 August 2007 
Product Name: Arixtra 
EMEA/H/C/403/X/25 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
This  line  extension  pertains  exclusively  to  the  2.5  mg  strength,  where  the  Applicant  is  seeking 
authorisation  for  a  new  intravenous  route  of  administration  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  ST 
segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) who are managed 
with thrombolytics or who initially are to receive no other form of reperfusion therapy.  
The  related  application  EMEA/H/C/403/II/24,  presenting  the  results  of  the  pivotal  clinical  trials  to 
support the use of fondaparinux in the treatment of patients with Unstable Angina or non-ST segment 
elevation  myocardial  infarction  (UA/NSTEMI)  ACS  and  patients  with  STEMI  ACS,  has  been 
reviewed  in  parallel.  Under  the  proposed  clinical  dosing  regimen,  patients  with  ACS  will  routinely 
receive  2.5 mg  fondaparinux  once  daily  via  the  established  subcutaneous  route  for  up  to  8  days.  In 
addition,  in  patients  with  STEMI,  the  first  2.5 mg  dose  will  be  given  by  the  intravenous  route. 
Intravenous  doses  will  be  administered  either  by  syringe  via  an  existing  intravenous  access  or  as  a 
rapid infusion over 1 to 2 minutes via a small volume (25 or 50 ml) 0.9% saline minibag. 
This  report  will  only  cover  the  new  intravenous  route  of  administration.  The  clinical  discussion 
pertaining  to  the  new  indication  is  reflected  in  the  assessment  report  for  the  type  II  variation 
(EMEA/H/C/403/II/24). 
1.2  Quality aspects 
The existing 2.5mg pre-filled syringe, as used for the approved subcutaneous route of administration, 
is to be used for the intravenous (i.v.) route of  administration. The product is to be administered by 
infusion via an existing i.v. line by direct access or an isotonic sodium chloride solution (0.9%) mini 
bag. 
Compatibility  studies  were  carried  out  in  order  to  ascertain  the  suitability  of  the  i.v.  route  of 
administration via mini bags. Four mini bags from three different suppliers (Perfuflex and Freeflex 50 
ml  from  Fresenius  Kabi,  Bioperf  50  ml  from  Aguettant  and  Viaflex  25  ml  from  Baxter)  were 
evaluated.  One  or  two  syringes  were  injected  into  the  bag  and  the  compatibility  studies  (assay,  pH, 
colour,  clarity  and  particulate  matter)  were  performed  over  a  period  of  48  hours  at  ambient 
temperature. 
The  study  results  demonstrate  the  compatibility  of  the  drug  product  with  the  mini  bags  tested. 
Degradation products were always below their respective detection limit.  
It  may  be  concluded  that there  are  no  compatibility  problems  between  Arixtra  solution  for  injection 
diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride, and the mini bags tested. Storing the product in mini bags over a 
24 hours time period is acceptable. 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
To support the original indication, fondaparinux underwent a comprehensive  number of non-clinical 
studies  which  were  submitted  as  part  of  the  initial  Marketing  Authorization.  No  new  non-clinical 
studies were submitted for the current application. 
Since the human systemic exposure is lower with 2.5 mg IV than with the already approved 7.5 mg SC 
no additional toxicity studies were deemed necessary in respect of systemic exposure.  
Non-clinical  data  reveal  no  special  risk  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity.  
The previously submitted toxicological program sufficiently addresses the IV route and no additional 
data  was  considered  necessary  to  allow  toxicological  characterization  following  IV  administration. 
Therefore the application can be approved from a non-clinical point of view. 
2
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
in 
fondaparinux  were 
summarized  previously 
No  new  pharmacokinetic  data  were  submitted  with  this  application.  The  clinical  pharmacology  and 
the  original  MAA 
pharmacokinetics  of 
(EMEA/H/C/403)  for  prophylaxis  of  VTE  in  patients  undergoing  major  orthopaedic  surgery  of  the 
lower limbs (MOSLL). The present application concerns intravenous administration of fondaparinux 
to  rapidly  achieve  antithrombotic  concentrations 
ischaemia.  The 
pharmacokinetics following i.v. bolus and s.c. administration of fondaparinux have been characterised 
previously in healthy elderly subjects (Study 63106). Maximum concentrations of fondaparinux were 
achieved  rapidly  following  i.v.  bolus  administration  (with  a  median  Tmax  of  5  minutes,  the  first 
sampling  time  point)  compared  to  s.c.  administration  (median  Tmax  2 hours)  with  the  mean  Cmax 
following a 4 mg i.v. bolus dose approximately 1.8-fold higher than that observed following the 4 mg 
s.c. dose (0.86 mg/L vs 0.48 mg/L, respectively). Other pharmacokinetic parameters were similar for 
the  two  routes  of  administration.  The  mean  AUC(0-inf)  observed  following  the  i.v.  bolus  dose  was 
10.0  mg*h/mL  compared  to  9.7  mg*h/L  following  the  s.c.  dose  with  mean  elimination  half-lives  of 
19.2 and 20.3 hours, respectively.   
in  patients  with  critical 
In  OASIS  6  (a  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel-group,  controlled  trial  comparing  the  safety  and 
efficacy  of  2.5mg  fondaparinux  versus  a  control  of  usual  care  (UFH  or  Placebo)  in  subjects  with 
STEMI), i.v. bolus administration of fondaparinux was performed using the marketed 2.5 mg syringe 
via existing intravenous access, using an IN stopper with male luer lock. As an alternative method of 
administration, fondaparinux could be administered as a rapid i.v. infusion via a 0.9% saline mini-bag. 
In  order  to  evaluate  the  impact  of  infusion  duration  on  the  plasma  concentration-time  profile  for 
fondaparinux, pharmacokinetic simulations were performed.   
As shown in Figure 2, predicted maximum concentrations (Cmax) of fondaparinux were similar for i.v. 
infusion of 2.5 mg fondaparinux over 1, 2, 5, 10 and 15 minutes relative to an i.v. bolus dose.  
Figure 2 Median Predicted Plasma Concentration-Time Profiles Following 2.5 mg 
Fondaparinux Sodium Administered via Rapid Intravenous Infusion and Intravenous Bolus 
3
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As all of these infusion rates achieve comparable predicted maximum concentrations of fondaparinux, 
it  becomes  clinically  more  important  to  consider  the  time  required  to  achieve  these  maximum 
concentrations  since  the  ultimate  goal  is  to  reach  antithrombotic  levels  as  soon  as  possible.  It  is 
therefore  recommended  as  an  alternative  to  i.v.  bolus  administration,  that  fondaparinux  be 
administered as a rapid infusion over 1-2 minutes via a small volume (25 or 50 ml) 0.9% saline mini-
bag. This is reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new data was submitted nor was it considered necessary.  
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development program for fondaparinux in ACS included a total of 34,071 subjects who 
participated in 6 clinical studies. Four were phase II studies (PENTUA, PENTALYSE, ASPIRE and 
ACT 2445) and two were phase III studies (OASIS 5, conducted in unstable angina (UA) and non ST-
segment  elevation  myocardial  infarction  (NSTEMI)  and  OASIS  6  in  patients  with  ST-segment 
elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients). 
Study 
Subject Population/No 
Subjects Randomized 1 
Treatment Groups 
Fondaparinux 
Dose (once daily) 
Treatment 
Duration 
Phase II Studies 
PENTUA 
UA/NSTEMI/1147 
PENTALYSE 
STEMI/333 
ASPIRE 
ACT2445   
Phase III Studies 
PCI/350 
PTCA/71/71 
Fondaparinux vs 
Enoxaparin  
Fondaparinux vs UFH 
plus r-tPA in both arms 
Fondaparinux vs UFH 
Fondaparinux  
2.5 mg, 4 mg, 8 
mg, 12 mg s.c. 
after initial i.v. 
dose 
4 mg, 8 mg, 12 mg 
s.c. after initial i.v. 
dose 
2.5 mg, 5 mg i.v. 
12 mg i.v.  
3-7 days 
4-6 days 
Single dose 
Single dose 
OASIS 6 
OASIS 5 
UA/NSTEMI/20,078 
Fondaparinux vs 
Enoxaparin  
Fondaparinux vs 
standard care 
1 1147 subjects in PENTUA comprise 1138 who were randomized plus 9 treated subjects who were not randomized  
UA unstable angina. NSTEMI non ST-elevation myocardial infarction. STEMI ST-elevation myocardial infarction 
PCI/PTCA percutaneous coronary intervention.  
UHF unfractionated heparin 
2.5 mg s.c. after 
initial i.v. dose 
STEMI/12,092  
2.5 mg s.c. 
≤8 days 
≤8 days 
PENTUA and PENTALYSE provided some evidence on which dose to select for further investigation 
in  phase  III.  The  other  phase  II  studies,  ASPIRE  and  ACT2445  provided  data  primarily  on  the 
tolerability of an i.v. bolus of fondaparinux administered during coronary interventions (PTCA/PCI) 
and are discussed below in detail.  
The  two  main  phase  III  trials  (OASIS  5  and  OASIS  6)  were  conducted  in  a  total  of  over  32,000 
patients. These studies are pivotal in providing the data to support the registration of fondaparinux for 
patients diagnosed with ACS and are discussed in the context of variation II/24. 
Study ACT2445: 
The ACT2445 was an open-label, uncontrolled study to assess the efficacy and safety of a single i.v. 
bolus injection of fondaparinux 12 mg administered prior to PTCA. The study enrolled male and post-
menopausal  females  who  had  a  history  of  stable  or  unstable  angina,  or  of  MI  who  had  stenosis  of 
≥70% in at least one coronary artery selected for balloon angioplasty. Subjects with either an MI or 
UA symptoms within the previous 7 days were excluded. Seventy-one subjects were included in the 
study,  but  ten  subjects  had  a  stent  implanted  shortly  after  PTCA  and  received  ticlopidine.  These 
subjects were excluded from the per-protocol (PP) population.  
The  primary  end  point  was  the  occurrence  of  abrupt  vessel  closure  (AVC)  during  or  after  the 
4
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
procedure as assessed by coronary angiography at 24 hours post-PTCA. The duration of AVC should 
be  at  least  10  minutes  and  not  relieved  by  intracoronary  or  sublingual  nitroglycerin  and  associated 
with ischemic pain and ECG changes. Success of treatment was defined as the Bayesian probability 
point  of  95%  (P)  that  the  AVC  rate  (x)  was  less  than  10%.  [P  (x  <  0.10)  =  0.971  if  2  AVC  in  60 
evaluable subjects. 
Results 
Two  of  the  61  evaluable  subjects  experienced  the  primary  end  point  (AVC),  giving  a  percentage  of 
closure of 3.28% [0.04%, 11.35%], which was less than the preset 10% criteria for efficacy. The rate 
of AVC observed was within the range of previously reported rates with heparin. There were two non-
fatal SAEs, both haemorrhagic events (hematoma and cerebral hemorrhage). Hemorrhagic events were 
reported in 17 subjects (23.9%), the majority of which were haematomas at the arterial injection site. 
The results from this pilot study were further evaluated in ASPIRE. 
ASPIRE: 
ASPIRE  was  a  randomised  blinded  pilot  trial  of  fondaparinux  versus  UFH  in  addition  to  standard 
therapy in a broad range of patients undergoing PCI. The objectives were to obtain experience in the 
use of fondaparinux as the primary anticoagulation strategy during PCI by evaluating the safety and 
efficacy of two dosages of fondaparinux compared with UFH. Two dosages of fondaparinux (2.5 mg 
and 5 mg i.v.) were used with UFH as the comparator. Randomisation was stratified by use of i.v. GP 
IIb/IIIa inhibitors. A single i.v. dose of investigational product was administered after randomisation 
and prior to the PCI procedure.  
The study recruited 350 subjects scheduled for PCI at 22 centers in 3 countries. Subjects with active or 
potential  bleeding  complications  or  undergoing  thrombolysis  for  STEMI  within  previous  24  hours 
were excluded. There were 118 subjects randomized to fondaparinux 2.5 mg, 115 to 5 mg and 117 to 
UFH, Fiftyeight percent of subjects received GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor. Treatment was administered by an 
independent unblinded coordinator.   
The primary efficacy outcome was the first occurrence of any component of the composite of all-cause 
death,  re-MI,  urgent  revascularization,  or  need  for  bailout  GP  IIb/IIIa  inhibitor  within  48  hours  of 
randomization.  The  primary  safety  outcome  was  major  or  minor  bleeding  within  48 hours  of 
randomization. 
The sample size was based on the estimated event rate for the composite of major and minor bleeding 
in the UFH group. The estimated rate expected for the UFH group was 3%, which would provide 80% 
power  to  show  a  difference  if  the  hazard  ratio  between  the  combined  fondaparinux  groups  and  the 
UFH group was 4.8.  
Results 
There was no statistically significant difference between the combined fondaparinux group (6.0%) and 
the UFH group (6.0%) in reducing the composite endpoint in subjects undergoing PCI (HR 1.02; 95% 
CI [0.41, 2.54]; p=0.97). The incidence of events was higher in the fondaparinux 5 mg group (7.8%) 
than in the fondaparinux 2.5 mg group (4.2%) and UFH group (6.0%). 
Clinical safety 
In ASPIRE, there were no significant differences in the incidence of major or minor bleedings between 
the  combined  fondaparinux  group  (6.4%)  and  the  UFH  group  (7.7%),  (HR  0.81,  95%  CI  [0.352, 
1.840], p=0.61). The majority of the bleeding events in both the fondaparinux and UFH groups were 
minor  and  occurred  mainly  within  the  initial  48  hours  of  randomization  in  subjects  receiving 
concomitant  GP  IIb/IIIa  inhibitors.  There  were  only  four  major  bleeding  events  in  fondaparinux 
subjects; all in subjects receiving concomitant GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors.  
There was a non-significant trend towards a lower rate of bleeding in the fondaparinux 2.5 mg group 
(3.4%)  compared  with  the  higher  fondaparinux  5  mg  group  (9.6%).  There  were  two  cardiovascular-
related  deaths,  both  in  the  fondaparinux  5  mg  group;  only  one  of  these  deaths  occurred  on-therapy. 
The incidence of SAEs to Day 30 was low and similar across the treatment groups. 
5
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The profile and incidence of AEs to Day 2 was similar across the treatment groups (fondaparinux 2.5 
mg  31%,  fondaparinux  5 mg  34%  and  UFH,  27%  subjects.  The  most  frequently  reported AEs  were 
puncture  site  haemorrhage,  and  angina  pectoris  With  the  exception  of  puncture  site  haemorrhage 
(fondaparinux 2.5 mg 3%, fondaparinux 5 mg 8% and UFH, 7% subjects), no other AE was reported 
by more than 5% subjects in any treatment group.  
In  the  uncontrolled  ACT2445,  there  were  only  three  subjects  with  bleeding  events  on  i.v. 
fondaparinux. All three bleeding events were at the sheath site and did not require any transfusions. 
Nineteen subjects (26.8%) reported at least one AE. Most of the AEs reported were platelet bleeding 
and clotting disorders (13 subjects, 18.3%); predominantly haematomas (13 subjects, 18.3%) and one 
cerebral haemorrhage. Most of the haematomas were at the arterial injection site and were judges as 
mild. 
Laboratory findings 
There were no reports of thrombocytopenia in PENTALYSE and ACT2445, only one in the PENTUA 
study and three in ASPIRE in the fondaparinux 2.5 mg group and one report in the UFH group. 
1.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Summary of Activities for each safety concern for fondaparinux (version number 1.2) 
Safety concern 
Identified Risks 
Catheter thrombosis 
during PCI when 
fondaparinux is 
used as sole anti-
coagulant adjunct to 
PCI 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Review  all  spontaneous  and  literature 
in 
treated  with 
reports  of  catheter 
patients  with  ACS 
fondaparinux. 
thrombosis 
2.  Develop 
targeted  questionnaire 
to 
ensure consistency of data collected for 
spontaneous 
catheter 
reports 
thrombosis 
of 
Additional pharmacovigilance which 
includes: 
1.  Evaluate (post-approval) the appropriate 
use  of  fondaparinux  in  ACS  patients 
who  have  to  undergo  PCI  according  to 
prescribing information. 
Routine risk minimisation which includes:  
•  Appropriate labelling: 
•  Not recommending fondaparinux prior 
to or during primary PCI. 
•  Recommendation 
against  use  of 
fondaparinux  as  sole  anti-coagulation 
adjunct to non-primary PCI 
•  Recommendation to use UFH for anti-
coagulation  during  non-primary  PCI 
in patients treated with fondaparinux 
6
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential Risks 
Risk of bleeding in 
non-primary PCI 
when UFH is used 
for anti-coagulation 
during the 
procedure in 
patients previously 
treated with 
fondaparinux 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance which 
includes: 
•  Conduct PASS. 
•  Evaluate  (post-approval)  the  adherence 
to 
for 
the  prescribing  guidance 
recommended  use  of  fondaparinux  in 
ACS patients who have to undergo PCI. 
Routine risk minimisation activities which 
includes: 
•  Appropriate labelling: 
•  Recommendation to use UFH for anti-
coagulation  during  non-primary  PCI 
in  patients  treated  with  fondaparinux 
taking 
individual 
bleeding  risk  including  timing  since 
last dose of fondaparinux 
account 
into 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
1.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
According to the MAH, the two pivotal trials (OASIS 5 and OASIS 6), have shown that fondaparinux 
is either as effective as, or superior to, current standard therapy in UA/NSTEMI and STEMI subjects. 
Importantly,  in  both  studies  fondaparinux  was  associated  with  a  clinically  relevant  and  statistically 
significant  reduction  in  the  risk  of  all  cause  mortality.  Other  than  in  STEMI  subjects  undergoing 
primary  PCI,  the  relative  efficacy  of  fondaparinux  to  control  was  seen  across  a  range  of  key  sub-
groups indicating the applicability of these data to a broad range of subjects with ACS.   
The MAH also claims that fondaparinux 2.5 mg was well tolerated in subjects with UA/NSTEMI and 
STEMI. Fondaparinux was generally associated with a lower risk of bleeding compared to enoxaparin 
(OASIS 5) or control (OASIS 6). Further, fondaparinux had comparable or slightly lower incidences of 
AEs, SAEs (total and drug-related), and AEs leading to withdrawal compared to enoxaparin (OASIS 5) 
or  control  (OASIS  6).  Other  than  in  STEMI  subjects  undergoing  primary  PCI,  a  satisfactory  safety 
profile  of  fondaparinux  to  control  was  consistently  seen  across  a  range  of  important  subgroups, 
indicating  the  applicability  of  these  data  to  a  broad  range  of  subjects  with  ACS.  Fondaparinux  was 
also well tolerated in phase II studies at i.v. doses up to 12 mg and results from the supporting phase II 
studies are broadly in alignment with the phase III studies. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  agreed  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131) 
(cid:131) 
the proposed pharmacovigilance activities were adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Arixtra in the treatment of ST segment elevation myocardial 
infarction (STEMI) in patients who are managed with thrombolytics or who initially are to receive no 
other  form  of  reperfusion  therapy,  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
7
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marketing  authorisation  to  the  new  intravenous  route  of  administration  for  the  2.5  mg  pre-filled 
syringe. 
8
©EMEA 2007 
