Assessment report  
for 
ARIXTRA 
International Nonproprietary Name:  
fondaparinux sodium 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/00403/II/0045 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion  
1.1 
Introduction 
Arixtra  (fondaparinux)  was  the  first  of  a  new  class  of  antithrombotic  agents  that  selectively  inhibit 
factor  Xa.  The  antithrombotic  activity  of  fondaparinux  results  from  antithrombin  (AT)-mediated 
selective  inhibition  of  Factor  Xa.  By  binding  selectively  to  AT,  fondaparinux  potentiates  (about  300 
times)  the  innate  neutralisation  of  Factor  Xa  by  AT.  Neutralisation  of  Factor  Xa  interrupts  the  blood 
coagulation cascade and inhibits both thrombin formation and thrombus development.   
Subcutaneously  (SC)  administered  fondaparinux  2.5  mg/day  is  currently  approved  in  the  EU  for  the 
prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery 
of  the  lower  limbs  (MOSLL)  or  major  abdominal  surgery,  in  immobile  medical  patients  at  high  risk  of 
VTE,  and  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  unstable  angina/non-ST-elevation  myocardial  infarction 
(UA/NSTEMI) and ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Fondaparinux is additionally approved in 
the EU for the treatment of acute deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) and acute pulmonary embolism (PE) at 
the dose of 7.5 mg/day SC (bodyweight < 50 kg, 5 mg/day; > 100 kg, 10 mg/day). 
T
he scope of this variation is to extend the indication of fondaparinux sodium 1.5 and 2.5 mg/day SC, 
solution for injection, pre-filled syringe (Arixtra) for the “Treatment of acute symptomatic Superficial-
Vein Thrombosis of the lower limbs without concomitant Deep-Vein Thrombosis (DVT)”. 
S
uperficial thrombophlebitis (ST) or superficial vein thrombosis frequently occurs as a complication, of 
an  i.v.  line  and  can  also  occur  spontaneously.  Spontaneous  superficial  vein  thrombosis  (SVT)  of  the 
legs is by far the most common form of ST. In the present submission, the term SVT will refer only to 
acute, spontaneous SVT of the lower limbs.  
Clinical  signs  and  symptoms  of  ST  include  the  presence  of  a  visible  warm,  red,  tender,  swollen  area 
along  the  course  of  a  superficial  vein.  ST  occurs  in  an  estimated  3-11%  of  the  general  population, 
more often in women (about 80% of cases) than in men. ST can occur in many locations but is most 
often  found  in  the  veins  of  the  lower  extremities.  In  60  to  80%  of  such  cases,  ST  is  localized  in  the 
greater saphenous vein, in 10% to 20% in the lesser saphenous vein and in 10 to 20% in other veins 
of the legs, occurring bilaterally in 5 to 10% of patients.  
In  a  majority  of  cases,  the  assumed  self  limiting  nature  of  this  frequent  disease  and  good  prognosis 
limits the therapeutic measure.  
Treatment  according  to  textbook
s  is  polypragmatic  and  based  on  drugs  with  systemic  or topical  anti-
inflammatory  efficacy  together  with  local  measure  like  cooling.  In  some  cases,  ST  could  however  be 
associated with deep-vein thrombosis (DVT), as they are present in 6 to 36% of patients with ST.  
In  the  first  large  prospective  epidemiological  study  conducted  to  date  in  patients  with  acute  ST 
(the 
French POST study), about 600 patients had an isolated symptomatic SVT at inclusion of at least 5cm 
on  CUS.  10.2%  developed  thromboembolic  complications  at  3  months  (0.5%  EP,  2.8%  DVT,  3.3% 
extension  of  SVT,  1.9%  recurrence  of  SVT),  despite  90.5%  having  received  anticoagulants.  Although 
no agent is currently indicated for use in patients with ST, off-label use of various medications such as 
heparins  has  been  used.    In  some  patients  with  potential  risk  of  associated  VTS  complications,  there 
could be a medical need to treat TVS and prevent VTE complications according to experts.   
his extension of indication is thus supported by one pivotal and unique double blind placebo controll
T
ed 
study:  Study  CALISTO.  No  reference  treatment  exists  up  to  now  and  the  CALISTO  study  is  the  first 
large  clinical  study  conducted  in  this  pathology.  Patients  diagnosed  with  SVT  received  2.5  mg  of  the 
existing formulation of fondaparinux, once daily, via the established subcutaneous route for 45 days.  
This  represents  an  increase  in  the  duration  of  clinical  dosing  from  a  maximum  of  33  days  in  patients
undergoing high fracture surgery to a period well in excess of one month. To support this extension of 
subcutaneous administration of fondaparinux in humans, and following the request form the Scientific 
Advice from the CHMP, an additional 6-month repeat dose toxicity study has been performed in rats. 
  the  present  variation,  the  MAH  proposed  to  update  the  following  sections  of  the  SPC  (and  the 
In
corresponding sections of the Package Leaflet):   
• 4.1 Therapeutic indications  
• 4.2 Posology and method of a
dministration  
• 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use
• 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties.  
Assessment report  
Page 2/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The last updated Risk Management Plan (RMP) was agreed with the CHMP in April 2009, which covers 
all currently approved indications for fondaparinux. An updated EU RMP was submitted specifically for 
this variation.  
1.1.  Non-clinical aspects 
To support this new indication, and following a Scientific Advice from the CHMP, an additional 6 month 
repeat  dose  toxicity  study  has  been  performed  in  the  rat.  Fondaparinux  sodium  was  give  to  Wistar 
Hannover  Crl:  WI  (Han)  rats  (15/sex/group)  at  0,  0.4,  2.0  and  10  mg/kg  once  daily  by  intravenous 
bolus injection. In addition 8 animals/sex were added to the control and high dose groups for a 6 week 
recovery  period.  There  were  no  new  toxicities  and  no  adverse  changes  in  animals  at  up  to  the 
maximum  dose  of  10  mg/kg/day.  Toxicokinetic  data  showed  no  marked  differences  in  systemic 
exposure between genders or between Weeks 13 and 26 at any dose level. At the no observed adverse 
effect  level  (NOAEL)  of  10  mg/kg/day,  mean  AUC  values  were  25.2  μg.h/mL  and  20.6  μg.h/mL,  for 
males and females, respectively, at Week 26. These values represent at least 3 times those anticipated 
following  subcutaneous  dosing  at  2.5  mg  (i.e.  the  proposed  clinical  dose  for  the  treatment  of  SVT) 
following a single dose to healthy volunteers. 
The  MAH  has  submitted  an  Environmental  risk  assessment  to  support  the  new  indication.  The  MAH 
states:  “Fondaparinux is a synthetic pentasaccharide and thus as a carbohydrate molecule is listed in 
the guidance amongst those substances which are considered unlikely to result in significant risk to the 
environment and therefore do not require an Environmental Risk Assessment.” 
1.2.  Clinical aspects 
Superficial  thrombophlebitis  (SVT)  is  a  frequent  complication  of  intravenous  lines  and  can  also  occur 
spontaneously. Spontaneous SVT of the legs is by far the most common form of SVT. 
SVT  is  most  often  seen  in  outpatients  and  high  body  weight  and/or  a  history  of  varicose  veins  are 
recognised  risk  factors.  Clinical  signs  and  symptoms  include  the  presence  of  a  visible  warm,  red, 
tender, swollen area along the course of a superficial vein, often palpable as a cord. In 60 to 80% of 
cases involving the lower limbs, the SVT is located in the greater saphenous vein (GSV), in 10 to 20% 
in the lesser saphenous vein (LSV) and in 10 to 20% in other veins of the legs, occurring bilaterally in 
5 to 10% of patients. SVT is estimated to be more frequent than DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE), 
with  a  claimed  incidence  of  125,000  new  cases  of  clinically  recognised  SVT  per  year  in  the  United 
States. 
Duplex ultrasonography is often performed for confirmation of diagnosis and estimation of the extent 
of thrombosis. 
SVT  has  historically  been  regarded  as  a  benign,  self-limiting  disease,  usually  expected  to  resolve 
spontaneously within a few weeks and requiring little treatment other than symptomatic measures.  
However, more recent studies have shown that SVT may be indicative of more widespread concomitant 
thrombosis. Systematic ultrasonography has revealed an incidence of concomitant DVT in 6% to 53% 
of patients with SVT, depending on the study. Furthermore, a clinical suspicion of concomitant PE has 
been described in 0% to 10% of patients with SVT, while systematic lung scanning has resulted in the 
detection of PE in up to 33% of patients with SVT. 
With regard to physiopathology, there are links between SVT and DVT; the risk factors are common to 
both  pathologies  and  SVT  is  itself  a  risk  factor  for  DVT  or  PE.  Risk  factors  that  have  been  cited  in 
association  with  SVT  include  previous  thromboembolic  episodes,  long-haul  flight,  pregnancy,  oral 
contraceptives,  hormone  replacement  therapy,  immobilisation,  obesity,  recent  surgery,  trauma  and 
sclerotherapy. As with DVT or PE, there is a close relationship between SVT and thrombophilia or auto-
immune diseases. Age is an additional risk factor; the older the patient, the fewer other risk factors are 
needed.  However,  venous  insufficiency  is  much  more  common in  the  context  of SVT  (70%  of  cases), 
representing a crucial factor in the aetiology of this disease, in contrast to DVT. 
Two  mechanisms  conceivably  underlie  the  association  between  SVT  and  DVT  or  PE,  namely:  1) 
migration  of  the  SVT  toward  the  deep  venous  system  via  the  sapheno-femoral  junction  (SFJ),  the 
sapheno-popliteal junction or a perforating vein, and 2) a state of hypercoagulability that may explain 
the non-contiguous coexistence of the two types of thrombosis. 
Assessment report  
Page 3/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  recent  POST  study,  a  prospective,  epidemiological  study  conducted  in  patients  with  acute  SVT, 
included  consecutive  patients  reflecting  the  “real-world”  routine  clinical  practice  of  angiologists  in 
France.  This  showed  that  objectively  confirmed  DVT  and/or  symptomatic  PE  were  concomitant  with 
SVT in 24.9% (210/844) of patients at diagnosis. The thrombus in the deep vein was not contiguous to 
SVT in 41.9% of these SVT patients with DVT at presentation. 
SVT  patients  with  associated  DVT  or  PE  at  presentation  require  treatment  with  curative  doses  of  an 
anticoagulant agent. 
Patients with acute isolated SVT (i.e. with no DVT or PE at presentation) are at risk of thromboembolic 
complications,  which  include  recurrent  disease  or  thrombus  extension  as  well  as  DVT  or  PE.  SVT 
recurrence  and  more  importantly  SVT  extension  are  clinically  important  as  they  are  associated  with 
increased risk of DVT or PE, thereby prompting escalation of therapy to high dose anticoagulant agents 
or surgery, e.g. ligation of the SFJ or thrombectomy. 
In the French epidemiological POST study (n=844), 8.3% of patients with isolated SVT at presentation 
experienced  at  least  one  symptomatic  thromboembolic  event  at  three  months:  2.8%  experienced 
symptomatic DVT (47% being proximal DVT), 0.5% symptomatic PE, 3.3% symptomatic extension of 
SVT  and  1.9%  symptomatic  recurrence  of  SVT.  It  is  noteworthy  that  these  results  were  obtained 
despite  more  than  90%  of  the  patients  receiving  one  or  more  anticoagulant  drugs  (for  a  median 
duration  of  11  days)  on  top  of  elastic stockings,  almost  half  the  patients  also  received  topical  or  oral 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Male gender, severe venous insufficiency, varicose veins, a history of DVT or PE, a history of cancer or 
active  cancer  and  disease  characteristics,  such  as  distance  between  the  thrombus  and  the  SFJ,  have 
been reported to be risk factors for such thromboembolic complications of isolated SVT.  
For  a  long  time,  acute  isolated  SVT  was  treated  with  oral  analgesics  or  NSAIDs,  in  combination  with 
compression  (bandages  or  stockings),  thrombectomy  in  patients  suffering  intense  pain,  and  stripping 
of associated varicose veins. Various other therapeutic measures have been proposed in the literature 
for  patients  with  acute  isolated  SVT,  including  immediate  mobilisation  (walking  exercises)  and  local 
anti-inflammatory applications (gel, cream, spray, etc.).  
Anticoagulation  with  unfractionated  heparin  (UFH)  or  LMWH  at  prophylactic  or  curative  doses  is 
currently the preferred option over routine surgery (commonly ligation of the SFJ). However, there are 
few  published  studies  with  UFH  and  LMWH  in  SVT  patients,  and  all  were  small  and  had  various 
methodological  limitations.  None  provided  clear  conclusions  on  anticoagulant  strategies  for  the 
effective  prevention  of  symptomatic  thromboembolic  complications  of  SVT.  It  is  also  unclear  to  what 
extent different locations of SVT should influence the choice of treatment. Currently, patients with SVT 
involving  the  SFJ  are  considered  at  high  risk  of  DVT  or  PE  and  require  surgical  ligation  of  the  SFJ  or 
thrombectomy. 
Patients with an indication for primary surgery are not further discussed in the present submission. 
Although guidelines regarding the management of SVT patients are available, they vary in their advice 
because  of  the  weak  evidence  base  to  support  clear  recommendations.  The  8th  consensus  of  the 
American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) suggested prophylactic or intermediate doses of LMWH or 
intermediate doses of UFH for at least 4 weeks for the treatment of SVT. This relatively weak Grade 2B 
recommendation is based on evidence of moderate quality, and acknowledges that the risk-to-benefit 
ratio  of  such  a  strategy  is  unclear.  Additionally,  the  authors  added  that  less  extensive  SVT  (i.e. 
involving  a  short  venous  segment  or  distant  from  the  SFJ)  would  probably  not  require  anticoagulant 
treatment and that it was reasonable to use oral or topical NSAIDs for symptom control in such cases. 
Recommendations issued by European national expert groups are heterogeneous regarding the use of 
anticoagulant  therapy  (ranging  from  "watchful  waiting"  to  anticoagulant  treatment  for  6-12  weeks), 
and the recommended dose (prophylactic/intermediate/full) and duration of such treatment.  
A survey conducted by GlaxoSmithKline in 2005 across 13 European countries using interviews of key 
experts  in  the  field  of  SVT  highlighted  the  heterogeneous  management  of  SVT  patients  throughout 
Europe.  In  response  to  questions,  experts  cited  all  possible  therapeutic  alternatives,  including 
ambulation  (i.e.  no  treatment),  surgery,  graduated  compression  stockings  (GCS),  analgesic  agents, 
venotonic  agents,  NSAIDs,  aspirin  or  other  antiplatelet  agents,  UFH  (prophylactic  or  curative  dose), 
LMWH (prophylactic or curative dose), and VKA. 
Available  data  suggest  that  a  low-dose  (prophylactic)  regimen  of  LMWH  should  be  sufficient  to  treat 
patients with acute isolated SVT of the lower limbs. Substantial efficacy and safety data are available 
showing that fondaparinux 2.5 mg/day was at least as effective and safe as LMWH in the prevention of 
Assessment report  
Page 4/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VTE  after  surgery.  Extrapolating  these  results,  it  was  hypothesised  that  fondaparinux  2.5  mg/day 
should be at least as effective and safe as a prophylactic regimen of LMWH employed for the treatment 
of  SVT  patients.  Although  the  reduced  dose  of  fondaparinux  1.5  mg  is  recommended  for  VTE 
prophylaxis  in  patients  with  a  creatinine  clearance  between  20  and  50  mL/min,  this  dosage  regimen 
was  not  evaluated  in  the  pivotal  study  supporting  this  application.  The  study  investigators  did  not 
consider that a dose reduction in moderate renally impaired patients was appropriate for the treatment 
of SVT, as there were concerns that it may be less efficacious. 
Furthermore,  it  is  argued  by  the  MAH  that  the  SVT  population  was  expected  to  be  at  a  low  risk  of 
bleeding  for  two  reasons:  first,  the  low  rates  of  surgical  intervention  expected  in  the  population  and 
second,  published  data  with  other  anticoagulants  in  patients  with  SVT  reported  low  rates  of  bleeding 
complications. 
The  clinical  development  programme  supporting  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  fondaparinux  in  patients 
with acute symptomatic isolated SVT of the lower limbs builds on the already substantial data available 
for fondaparinux in the prevention and treatment of VTE. It consists of one pivotal Phase III study, the 
CALISTO study.  
A  CHMP  Scientific  Advice  was  sought  during  protocol  development  and  after  these  discussions  the 
protocol  was  revised.  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  revised  to  include  all-cause  death,  and  an 
evaluation of efficacy and safety after a 30-day follow-up period was included. Furthermore patients at 
high risk for VTE such as those with recent DVT and active cancer were excluded as placebo treatment 
may not be regarded as ethically justified in these patients. 
1.3.1 Clinical efficacy 
The  pivotal  study  supporting  the  application  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled, parallel group, phase III study in subjects with acute symptomatic isolated superficial vein 
thrombosis  (SVT)  of  the  lower  limbs  (i.e.  without  concomitant  DVT).  The  occurrence  of  symptomatic 
events  of  venous  thromboembolism  [VTE],  bleeding  complications  and  death  was  evaluated.  The 
patients  were  treated  with  fondaparinux  sodium  2.5  mg  or  placebo  subcutaneously  once  daily  for  45 
days. The patients were followed up after additional 30 days, i.e. at day 75. The study was conducted 
at 171 centres in 17 countries and 3002 subjects were included (1502 in the fondaparinux group and 
1500 in the placebo group.) A majority of the patients were included in Russia, Hungary, Germany and 
Ukraine. 
The design of the study is summarised in the figure below:  
Fig. 1: The overall design of the pivotal study. 
Assessment report  
Page 5/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  agreed  with  that  the  primary  endpoint  includes  only  symptomatic  events  as  this  is  a 
placebo-controlled trial for an indication where anticoagulant treatment is not clearly established. This 
is  in  contrast  to  trials  with  an  active  control  in  a  therapeutic  area  where  anticoagulant  treatment  is 
generally accepted, e.g. prophylactic treatment in high risk surgery, where also asymptomatic events 
often are included as a surrogate marker.  
However, the Committee was of the view that the proposed treatment duration was not fully justified. 
In clinical practice when anticoagulant treatment has been used for SVT shorter treatment duration is 
probably common (e.g. 3-4 weeks). In response to this CHMP concern the MAH proposed an amended 
recommendation for treatment duration. 
Another  weakness  of  the  study  is  that  no  laboratory  tests  were  performed  after  the  screening  visit. 
Thus the possibilities to detect occult bleedings, e.g. from the gastrointestinal tract, was limited. 
The inclusion criteria were as follows: 
  Hospitalised or non-hospitalised male or female subjects 18 years of age or older; 
  Subjects  with  acute  symptomatic  isolated  SVT  of  the  lower  limbs  at  least  5  cm  long 
documented by standard CUS; and 
  Subjects able and willing to provide written informed consent. 
The most important exclusion criteria were as follows: 
Exclusion criteria related to disease characteristics at presentation: 
  SVT following sclerotherapy or resulting as a complication of an intravenous line; 
 
Palpable  hard  cord  without  any  inflammation  and,  on  CUS,  with  an  antero-posterior  diameter 
<5 mm and uniformly hyperechoic (high probability of old SVT); 
  Delay between symptom onset and randomisation >21 days; 
  Delay between diagnosis by CUS and randomisation >48 hours  
 
 
Treatment  of  the  current  episode  of  SVT  with  oral  NSAIDs  for  >72  hours  prior  to 
randomisation; 
Treatment of the current episode of SVT with aspirin at doses >325 mg per day for >72 hours 
prior to randomisation; 
Assessment report  
Page 6/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  SVT within 3 cm from the SFJ; 
  Symptomatic or asymptomatic DVT on qualifying CUS; 
  Documented presence of symptomatic PE; 
  Requirement  for  ligation  of  the  SFJ,  thrombectomy  or  planned  intervention  for  stripping  of 
varicose veins during the study period; 
  History of documented SVT occurring within the last 90 days; 
  History of documented DVT or PE within the last 6 months; or 
  SVT in subjects with active cancer (i.e., treated for cancer within the last 6months). 
Exclusion criteria related to concomitant medication: 
  Anticoagulant treatment 
 
Treatment  with  aspirin  at  a  dose  >325  mg  per  day  or  oral  NSAIDs  (at  any  dose)  required  or 
likely to be required during the study period. 
Exclusion criteria related to study treatments: 
  Known hypersensitivity to fondaparinux or its excipients; or 
  Women  of  childbearing  potential  not  using  a  reliable  contraceptive  method  throughout  the 
study period 
Exclusion criteria based on risk of bleeding: 
A  number  of  such  criteria  were  defined  in  line  with  the  current  contraindications,  warnings  and 
precaution in the approved SPC criteria and notably also the following: 
  Calculated creatinine clearance <30 mL/min; or 
  Body weight <50 kg. 
The CHMP considered the inclusion and exclusion criteria to be adequate. 
Five  protocol  amendments  were  implemented.  The  most  important  amendment  number  4  increased 
the  study  size  from  2500  subjects  to  a  maximum  of  3000.  This  was  due  to  a  somewhat  lower  event 
rate than expected. 
None of the amendments were judged to affect the robustness of the study. 
Patients  were  randomised  according  to  a  central  randomisation  scheme  using  an  interactive  voice 
response system.  
After screening the patients were randomised at visit 1 (day 1) and they had visit 2 at day 10, visit 3 
at  day  30,  visit  4  at  day  45  (end  of  therapy)  and  visit  5  at  day  75  (all  visits  were  to  be  done  at  ± 
2days). 
The primary efficacy endpoint recorded up to day 47 was defined as a composite of 
 
 
 
 
symptomatic  PE  -  confirmed  according  to  local  procedures  (including  ventilation-perfusion 
scan, helical computerised tomography [CT] scan or pulmonary angiogram); 
symptomatic DVT - confirmed on CUS or venography; 
symptomatic  extension  of  SVT  -  defined  as  downstream  (i.e.,  proximally)  progression  of  the 
initial  SVT  by  at  least  2  cm  AND  to  within  3  cm  or  less  from  the  sapheno-femoral  junction 
confirmed by CUS, 
symptomatic recurrent SVT - defined as a new episode in any other superficial venous location, 
confirmed  by  CUS,  meeting  the  following  criteria:  the  new  SVT  was  in  a  different  superficial 
vein  and  not  directly  contiguous  upstream  (i.e.,  distally)  with  the  index  SVT,  or  the  new  SVT 
was  in  the  same  superficial  vein  but  clearly  distinct  from  the  index  SVT  with  an  open  venous 
segment of at least 10 cm in length. 
Assessment report  
Page 7/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  suspected  symptomatic  events  (i.e.,  for  which  a  diagnostic  test  was  performed,  regardless  of  the 
result)  were  adjudicated  by  the  independent  Central  Adjudication  Committee,  whose  members  were 
blinded to treatment assignments. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
VTE and/or death from any cause up to Day 77; 
  Each component of the primary efficacy endpoint considered separately up to Day 47 and up to 
Day 77; 
  A composite of symptomatic fatal or non-fatal PE and symptomatic DVT up to Day 47 and up to 
Day 77; 
  A composite of symptomatic extension and recurrence up to Day 47 and up to Day 77 
  Surgery to treat SVT up to Day 47 and up to Day 77. 
Safety endpoints 
The  primary  safety  endpoint  was  major  bleeding  and/or  death  up  to  Day  47  or  up  to  day  of  last 
injection + 4 days, whichever was longer. 
Other safety endpoints included: 
  major bleeding; 
 
clinically relevant non-major bleeding; 
  minor bleeding; 
 
 
 
total (any) bleeding (major, clinically relevant non-major and minor bleeding); 
arterial thromboembolic event (e.g., stroke or myocardial infarction); 
death from any cause. 
Major bleeding was defined as: 
 
 
 
 
fatal - and/or; 
in  a  critical  area  or  organ  (e.g.,  intracranial,  intraspinal,  intraocular,  retroperitoneal,  intra-
articular or pericardial, or intramuscular with compartment syndrome) and/or; 
associated with a fall in haemoglobin ≥20 g/L (1.24 mmol/L) and/or; 
leading to transfusion of ≥2 units of packed red blood cells (PRBC) or whole blood. 
Statistical analyses 
Sample size was considered with respect to both the primary efficacy endpoint and safety evaluation, 
and an overall sample size of 2500 subjects (1250 per group) was determined. 
Assuming a 45-day VTE incidence of 8% in the placebo group and a 50% reduction in the fondaparinux 
group  to  an  incidence  of  4%,  the  proposed  sample  size  had  98.7%  power  to  detect  a  difference 
between treatment groups using Fisher’s exact test at a two-sided 5% level of significance. 
The sample size was re-estimated by the Steering Committee in November 2008, based on a blinded 
review of the adjudicated incidence of VTE at Day 45. The overall blinded adjudicated event rate was 
3.1%,  observed  in  2016  subjects  who  had  completed  the  45  day  treatment  period.  Assuming  a  50% 
reduction  in  the  fondaparinux  group,  and  a  placebo  rate  of  4.1%,  the  Steering  Committee 
recommended to increase the sample size to 3000 subjects (1500 per group), to ensure 90% power to 
detect a difference between treatment groups in the 45-day VTE incidence using Fisher’s exact test at 
a two-sided 5% level of significance. 
Analysis populations 
Intention-to-Treat  (ITT)  Population:  defined  as  all  randomised  subjects.  The  ITT  Population  was  the 
primary population for all efficacy analyses. 
As-Treated (AT) Population: composed of all randomised subjects who received at least one dose of the 
study treatment (exposed subjects). The AT Population was used for the safety analysis. Subjects were 
analysed  according  to  the  actual  treatment  received.  If  a  subject  received  at  least  one  dose  of 
fondaparinux, he/she was assigned to the fondaparinux treatment group. 
Assessment report  
Page 8/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Per-Protocol  (PP)  Population:  composed  of  the  subset  of  the  ITT  Population  without  any  major 
protocol deviations. Major deviations were defined before the code was broken and were validated by 
the Steering Committee. The PP Population was not analysed because this population comprised more 
than 95% of the ITT Population. 
A number of subgroup analyses were predefined but not presented here.  
Premature withdrawal and missing data  
It was not possible to distinguish whether a subject with a missing final event status did not have an 
event  or  if  the  final  event  status  was  missing.  Therefore,  based  on  the  low  marginal  event  rate, 
imputation of missing data for all endpoints was performed using the assumption that subjects did not 
have an event. 
In  the  time-to-event  analysis,  subjects  who  discontinued  the  study  without  a  final  event  status  were 
censored at the withdrawal date or the date of last contact. All other subjects not having an event were 
censored at completion date. 
Results 
The  majority  of  subjects  randomised  completed  the  study  although  slightly  more  subjects  in  the 
placebo group compared with the fondaparinux group withdrew from the study prematurely. 
Thus the reported number of subjects completing the trial was high. 
Table 1: Subject disposition 
The total number of subjects with major protocol deviations was small (<5%) and comparable across 
treatment groups. The most common protocol deviation was use of prohibited concomitant medications 
and the rates were similar across treatment groups. 
The PP population was more than 95 % of the ITT population, therefore separate analyses for the PP 
population was not performed. 
Table 2: Study populations 
The  median  age  of  the  patients  was  58  years  with  68%  below  the  age  of  65  and  8%  above  75. 
Sixtyfour percent were females. Mean BMI was 29 with 37% above 30. The proportion of patients with 
Assessment report  
Page 9/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30-50) was 4.3% (n=129). Ninety-nine percent of the patients were 
of Caucasian ethnicity.  
The study population was generally individuals who apart from SVT or other visible venous conditions 
were otherwise healthy without significant concomitant conditions. 
The  treatment  groups  were  similar  with  respect  to  medical  history  related  to  VTE  at  screening.  Few 
subjects had recent trauma or limited mobility. The majority of subjects used graduated compression 
stockings  (76%),  had  visible  venous  disease  at  screening  (any  disorder;  94%),  had  varicose  veins 
(89%). 
The  characteristics  of  the  qualifying  SVT  were  similar  across  treatment  groups  with  a  mean  onset  of 
7.1  days  from  randomisation.  The  mean  length  of  the  qualifying  SVT  on  CUS  was  20.5  cm, 
predominately  involved  the  GSV  (93%),  the  SVT  was  in  a  varicose  vein  in  the  vast  majority  of  cases 
(89%), was above the knee in approximately half the subjects (47%), and in the majority of subjects 
(82%) the distance between the head of the thrombus and SFJ was ≥10 cm. 
The  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  on  the  type  of  treatment  used  prior  the  study.  The  most 
commonly  used  medications  were  analgesics  (26%),  topical  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs 
(NSAIDs;  40%)  and  aspirin  or  other  anti-platelet  agents  (24%).  Graduated  compression  stockings 
were used by 83% of subjects in each treatment group during the study. 
Similarly, the treatment groups were well balanced with respect to the use of most medications during 
the  study.  One  notable  exception  was  the  use  of  anticoagulants  started  during  the  study.  In  the 
placebo group 96 (6.4%) of subjects commenced anti-coagulant therapy during the study compared to 
17 (1.1%) of fondaparinux subjects. An evaluation of the type and dose of agent used shows that both 
therapeutic  and  prophylactic  doses  of  anti-coagulant  were  administered.  The  protocol  prohibited  the 
use  of  anti-coagulants  concomitant  to  study  medication,  however  in  the  event  of  confirmed  VTE,  the 
Investigator could stop study drug and initiate medical therapy at his/her discretion. 
Overall  the  most  commonly  used  medications  during  the  study  were  analgesics,  topical  NSAIDs  and 
aspirin or other anti-platelet agents. Graduated compression stockings were used by 83% of subjects 
in each treatment group. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  study  population  is  reasonably  representative  of  the  European  target 
population. The treatment with anti-inflammatory agents and conservative measures, e.g compression 
stockings,  probably  reflects  European  clinical  practice.  The  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with 
regard to demographic characteristics, medical history, risk factors and concomitant treatment.  
The  mean  duration  of  exposure  across  treatment  groups  was  42  days  (median  45  days).  More  than 
90% of subjects had 30 or more days of exposure to study drug.  
A  subject  could  discontinue  investigational  product,  but  remain  in  the  study.  Over  twice  as  many 
subjects  discontinued  investigational  product  in  the  placebo  group  compared  with  the  fondaparinux 
group, see table 3 below. 
Table 3: Discontinuation of study drug, rates and reasons 
Primary end-points 
The incidence of the composite primary end-point was significantly lower in the fondaparinux group as 
compared with placebo (relative reduction approximately 85%). The corresponding absolute reduction 
was 5.0% (95% CI; 3.7%, 6.3%) (See table 4 below). 
Assessment report  
Page 10/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Primary end-point results, incidence of adjudicated VTE events or death from any cause up to 
day 47 (ITT population) 
At  Days  10,  30,  47,  and  77  the  reduction  in  risk  of  VTE/death  associated  with  fondaparinux  therapy 
compared with placebo was clinically and statistically significant. The plot below illustrates the time to 
event pattern. 
Fig 2: Kaplan-Meier analysis for incidence of adjudicated VTE event and/or death (ITT) 
The CHMP concluded that the difference in the incidences of the primary end point is considerable and 
statistically convincing. The curves appear to be essentially parallel after day 45. It would have been of 
interest to compare the incidence over time applying also shorter treatment duration (e.g. 3-4 weeks). 
An analysis of the primary outcome using Investigator reported events was consistent with the primary 
endpoint based on adjudicated events. 
The  results  of  the  sensivity  analyses  were  consistent  with  the  results  of  the  primary  analyses 
summarised above. One of sensivity analyses excluded the subjects with a missing final efficacy status. 
A second analysis focused on the incidence of adjudicated VTE events and/or death from any cause at 
any time during the study. 
Up  to  day  77  the  primary  end  point  events  were  18  in  the  fondaparinux  group  and  94  in  the  placeo 
group, i.e. 5 and 6 new events since day 47, respectively. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  there  was  no  indication  of  a  rebound  phenomenon  after  discontinuation  of 
treatment. 
Assessment report  
Page 11/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary end-points 
The incidences of the components of the primary endpoints are given below: 
Table 5: Summary of the incidence of individual components of the primary end-point. 
The majority of primary end point events consisted of extension or recurrence of SVT. Such a reduction 
of  extension  and  recurrence  of  SVT  is,  however,  to  be  regarded  as  clinically  meaningful  and  most 
probably results in reduced pain and symptoms related to the inflammatory process which sometimes 
can result also in temporary walking disability. 
The number of events with probably larger risks of severe complications (DVT or LE) was considerably 
lower. By treating 1500 patients 6 symptomatic cases of PE and 15 of DVT was prevented according to 
the  results  (p=0.015  and  0.001,  respectively).  It  has  been  demonstrated  by  the  MAH  that  treatment 
effects were similar in subgroups with different length of the SVT.  
Interestingly  a  considerable  reduction  of  surgery  that  was  considered  to  be  required  to  treat  the  SVT 
was reported in the fondaparinux group. 
Table 6: Summary of surgery during the study (ITT) 
The  reported  lower  incidence  of  surgical  interventions  in  the  fondaparinux  group  provides  important 
additional  support  for  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  reported  reduction in  the incidence  of  extension  or 
recurrence of the SVT. 
Subgroup analyses  
The primary endpoint results were consistent over different demographic subgroups (women, men, age 
categories, BMI categories, different geographical regions, countries with large vs small inclusion rates 
etc) (detailed data not shown in this report).  
Assessment report  
Page 12/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  were  also  consistent  between  treatment  groups  in  different  subgroups  related  to  renal 
impairment,  to  history  or  no  history  of  earlier  VTE,  to  history  of  varicose  veins  or  of  earlier  SVT,  to 
distance from SFJ, to location above or below the knee. 
Examination  of  the  placebo  event  rates  across  the  various  sub-group  categories  suggests  that  the 
incidence  of  VTE  and/or  death  by  Day  47  tended  to  be  higher  in  the  following  subgroups:    age  >75 
years, weight >100 kg, creatinine clearance <50 ml/min, distance of the thrombus to the SFJ <10 cm, 
qualifying SVT involving the V Saphena Magna, qualifying SVT above the knee, a history of DVT or PE, 
history  of  SVT  or  multiple  SVT  and  the  absence  of  varicose  veins.  In  addition  placebo  subjects  who 
were  not  using  NSAIDs  at  randomisation  or  not  using  antiplatelet  agents  or  aspirin  at  randomisation 
also  tended  to  have  a  higher  rate  of  primary  outcome  events,  relative  to  those  who  did  use  these 
agents  at  randomisation.  However,  subjects  who  apparently  had  no  identifiable  risk  factors  and  who 
received placebo experienced an incidence VTE and/or Death by Day 47 of 4.1% (7/78 as compared to 
2.3% or 2/89 in the fondaparinux group. 
Conclusions on clinical efficacy  
The single pivotal study supporting the application was adequately designed and seems to have been 
well  performed.  It  provides  convincing  results  with  regard  to  the  composite  primary  end  point.  It  is 
crucial for the external validity of the study that DVT was effectively excluded at baseline and that is 
dependent on the quality of the CUS investigations. However, the consistency of the efficacy results in 
different  countries  and  centres  indicate  that  the  quality  of  the  investigations  reflects  current  clinical 
standard. 
The majority of primary end point events consisted of extension or recurrence of SVT. Such a reduction 
of  extension  and  recurrence  of  SVT  is,  however,  to  be  regarded  as  clinically  meaningful  and  most 
probably results in reduced pain and symptoms related to the inflammatory process which sometimes 
can  result  in  temporary  walking  disability.  The  reported  significantly  lower  incidence  of  surgical 
interventions  in  the  fondaparinux  group  provides  additional  support  for  the  clinical  relevance  of  the 
reported reduction in the incidence of extension or recurrence of the SVT. 
The number of events with probably larger risks of severe complications (DVT or LE) was considerably 
lower. By treating 1500 patients 6 symptomatic cases of PE and 15 of DVT was prevented according to 
the results (p=0.015 and 0.001, respectively). The extension of the SVT at baseline was at mean over 
20  cm  and  approximately  half  of  them  were  located  above  the  knee.  It  has,  however,  been 
demonstrated by the MAH that treatment effects were similar in subgroups with different length of the 
SVT. 
The  results  were  consistent  over  different  demographic  subgroups  as  well  as  in  subgroups  with 
different SVT characteristics and risk factors.  
It is to be regarded as somewhat unfortunate that not different treatment duration was compared. In 
clinical  practice  when  anticoagulant  treatment  has  been  used  for  SVT  shorter  treatment  duration  is 
probably  common  (e.g.  3-4  weeks).  In  response  to  the  CHMP  question  the  MAH  has  discussed  this 
issue and proposed an amended recommendation for treatment duration of 4 to 6 weeks. 
1.3.2 Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The  exposure  in  SVT  patients  is  derived  from  the  pivotal  study.  It  should,  however,  be  taken  into 
account  that  considerable  experience  exists  from  prophylactic  treatment  in  surgery  and  in  high  risk 
medical patients with the same daily dosing but with shorter treatment duration. The mean duration of 
exposure across treatment groups was 42 days.  
Table 7: Exposure in SVT treatment 
Assessment report  
Page 13/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus  more  than  90%  of  subjects  had  30  or  more  days  of  exposure  to  study  drug  and  even  17  %  of 
subjects had more than 45 days of treatment. Treatment compliance was satisfactory. Of note, 91% of 
patients self-injected treatment. 
Adverse events 
The primary safety endpoint (major bleeding or death up to Day 47 or last dose + 4 days, whichever 
was  longer)  occurred  in  3  (0.2%)  fondaparinux  subjects  and  2  (0.1%)  placebo  subjects.  In  the 
fondaparinux group, these comprised 2 deaths (adjudicated cause cancer) and 1 major bleeding into a 
critical  organ  (intraocular  which  resolved  without  sequelae).  The  intraocular  bleeding  was  an  intra-
retinal bleed in a patient with moderate renal impairment and hypertension. In the placebo group there 
was  1  death  (due  to  acute  heart  failure,  adjudicated  cause  ‘other’)  and  1  major  bleeding  event 
(epistaxis  which  resolved  without  sequelae).  There  were  no  fatal  bleedings  in  either  group.  No 
additional major bleeding and/or death events occurred after Day 47. 
The incidence of adjudicated bleeding events (major, clinically-relevant non-major, and minor) was low 
(≤1.1%). A summary of the bleeding categories is given below. 
Table 8: Incidence of adjudicated bleeding event to day 47 by category. 
Most  of  the  bleedings  occurred  before  day  30.  At  day  77  there  were  16  subjects  in  the  fondaparinux 
group (1.1%) and 15 in the placebo group (1%) with any adjudicated bleeding event. 
No  clear  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  bleeding  tendency  were  reported.  However,  as 
pointed  out  above,  no  laboratory  screening  tests  or  more  thorough  clinical  investigations  were 
performed after the screening visit. Thus, the possibilities to detect occult bleedings were limited.  
Of  note,  some  bleedings  were  reported  in  listing  of  bleeding  events  but  have  not  been  adjudicated 
(criteria  for  bleeding  event  not  satisfied):  5  in  the  fondaparinux  group  (2  urogenital,  1  very  mild 
epistaxis,  1  gastrointestinal,  1  skin)  versus  one  in  the  placebo  group  (type  not  specified).  Thhe  MAH 
has  clarified  that  these  6  bleeding  events  did  not  meet  the  definition  of  any  of  the  3  pre-specified 
bleeding  event  definitions  that  were  defined  prospectively.  If  these  six  bleedings  are  included 
retrospectively in the comparison between the treatment groups it would result in a number of events 
(any bleeding) of 20 (1.3%) in the fondaparinux group and 15 (1.0%) in the placebo group. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
A summary of the serious adverse events is tabulated below. 
Table 9: Summary of the serious and significant adverse events 
Assessment report  
Page 14/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Summary of drug-related treatment-emergent adverse events 
Three  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  arterial  thromboembolic  events  (acute  coronary 
syndrome, n=2, ischemic stroke, n=1) as compared to none in the fondaparinux group. 
A somewhat greater number of subjects in the placebo group (n=29) discontinued the investigational 
product due to treatment emergent AE than subjects in the fondaparinux group (n=18). 
Laboratory findings 
No clinical laboratory tests were scheduled after screening except a pregnancy test in women of child-
bearing potential. 
Two subjects (both in the placebo group) were found to be pregnant after start of the investigational 
product.  
Safety in special populations 
No differences in bleeding rates between the treatment groups were recorded in patients with mild or 
moderate renal insufficiency.  
No differences were seen in bleeding rates between treatment groups for patients on NSAID or aspirin 
during the trial. 
Conclusions on clinical safety  
The bleeding risk in patients with SVT is not expected to be much different from the general population 
of  the  same  age  and  gender  distribution.  However,  treatment  with  NSAID  or  aspirin  is  probably  not 
uncommon  in  these  patients  and  they  are  at  increased  risk  for  bleeding  when  treated  with 
anticoagulants. This is adequately addressed in the SPC. 
However  no  differences  bleeding  rates  between  the  treatment  groups  were  reported  overall  or  in  the 
subgroups  of  special  interest  as  those  mentioned  above.  This  probably  reflects  that  the  target 
population  generally  has  a  rather  low  bleeding  risk,  as  compared  for  example  with  surgical  patients 
who are treated prophylactically with similar doses.  
As pointed out above it may have been difficult to capture subclinical bleedings with the chosen study 
design.  
The MAH has discussed the dose to be recommended in patients with renal impairment in response to 
the CHMP questions and proposes a recommendation for dosage reduction to 1.5 mg in patients with 
creatinine  clearance  in  the  range  of  20  to  50  ml/min.  This is  consistent  with  the  recommendation  for 
the VTE prophylaxis indication. 
Assessment report  
Page 15/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated RMP (version 1.6). The new proposed indication has been accurately 
added to the RMP.  
The  MAH  stated  that  feedback  regarding  the  use  of  fondaparinux  in  SVT,  (i.e.,  12-18  months  post 
launch)  from  key  prescribers  will  be  obtained  and  reported  though  a  drug  utilisation  study. 
Furthermore  the  MAH  has  adequately  discussed  the  possibility  to  extrapolate  the  results  to  different 
ethnic subgroups as almost only Caucasian patients were included in the single pivotal trial.   
The MAH has committed to update the synopsis and protocol for the planned drug utilization study. Full 
clinical study protocol will be submitted to the CHMP by December 2010. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Safety concern 
Identified Risks 
Bleeding events 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described In 
RMP Section 3.1 
Routine risk minimisation which includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Ongoing review of spontaneous reports 
of haemorrhage in patients treated with 
fondaparinux 
2.  Use of targeted follow-up questionnaire 
to ensure consistency of data collected 
for spontaneous reports of haemorrhage 
with respect to risk factors for 
haemorrhage. 
1.  Appropriate labelling  
  Bleeding risks are well-characterized and 
appropriately described in the current 
SPC, as shown below: 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions 
for use  
Haemorrhage  
Fondaparinux should be used with caution 
in patients who have an increased risk of 
haemorrhage, such as those with 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
(e.g. platelet count <50,000/mm3), active 
ulcerative gastrointestinal disease and 
recent intracranial haemorrhage or shortly 
after brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery 
and in special patient groups as outlined 
below. 
For prevention of VTE - Agents that 
[For 1.5 and 2.5mg:] 
• 
may enhance the risk of haemorrhage 
should not be administered concomitantly 
with fondaparinux. These agents include 
desirudin, fibrinolytic agents, GP IIb/IIIa 
receptor antagonists, heparin, heparinoids, 
or Low Molecular Weight Heparin 
(LMWH). When required, concomitant 
therapy with vitamin K antagonist should 
be administered in accordance with the 
information of Section 4.5. Other 
antiplatelet medicinal products 
(acetylsalicylic acid, dipyridamole, 
sulfinpyrazone, ticlopidine or clopidogrel), 
and NSAIDs should be used with caution. 
Page 16/24 
Assessment report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
If co-administration is essential, close 
monitoring is necessary. 
• 
For treatment of superficial-vein 
thrombosis - Fondaparinux should be used 
with caution in patients who are being 
treated concomitantly with other medicinal 
products that increase the risk of 
haemorrhage. 
[For  5, 7.5 and 10mg:] 
Agents that may enhance the risk of 
haemorrhage should not be administered 
concomitantly with fondaparinux. These 
agents include desirudin, fibrinolytic 
agents, GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, 
heparin, heparinoids, or Low Molecular 
Weight Heparin (LMWH). During treatment 
of VTE, concomitant therapy with vitamin 
K antagonist should be administered in 
accordance with the information of Section 
4.5. Other antiplatelet medicinal products 
(acetylsalicylic acid, dipyridamole, 
sulfinpyrazone, ticlopidine or clopidogrel), 
and NSAIDs should be used with caution. 
If co-administration is essential, close 
monitoring is necessary. 
 
Fondaparinux is contraindicated in 
patients with severe renal failure, as 
shown below: 
4.3  Contraindications (1.5 and 2.5mg) 
- severe renal impairment defined by 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min. 
4.3  Contraindications (5, 7.5 and 
10mg) 
- severe renal impairment defined by 
creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min. 
  Dosage in severe to moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance 20-50 
mL/min) reduced from 2.5 mg to 1.5mg 
(VTE prophylaxis only), as shown below: 
4.2  Posology and method of 
administration  
Prevention of VTE - Fondaparinux 
Renal impairment -  
• 
should not be used in patients with 
creatinine clearance <20 ml/min (see 
section 4.3). The dose should be reduced 
to 1.5 mg once daily in patients with 
creatinine clearance in the range of 20 to 
50 ml/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). No 
dosage reduction is required for patients 
with mild renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance >50 ml/min). 
Page 17/24 
Assessment report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
• 
Treatment of superficial-vein 
thrombosis - Fondaparinux should not be 
used in patients with creatinine clearance 
<20 ml/min (see section 4.3). The dose 
should be reduced to 1.5 mg once daily in 
patients with creatinine clearance in the 
range of 20 to 50 ml/min (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). No dosage reduction is required 
for patients with mild renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance >50 ml/min). The 
safety and efficacy of 1.5 mg has not been 
studied (see section 4.4.) 
Off label Use (VTE 
treatment and prevention) 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1 
Routine risk minimisation which includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Continued evaluation of 
spontaneous reports of 
haemorrhage reported in the setting 
of off-label use received globally. 
2.  The targeted follow up 
questionnaire issued for 
spontaneous reports of 
haemorrhage are issued regardless 
of treatment indication.  Therefore, 
information obtained will help to 
characterize risk factors for 
haemorrhage reported from off-label 
use as well. 
1.  Appropriate labelling 
 
Indications for use are clearly and 
accurately reflected in Section 4.1 of the 
SPC, as shown below: 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Prevention of Venous Thromboembolic 
Events (VTE) in adultspatients undergoing 
major orthopaedic surgery of the lower 
limbs such as hip fracture, major knee 
surgery or hip replacement surgery. 
Prevention of Venous Thromboembolic 
Events (VTE) in adultspatients undergoing 
abdominal surgery who are judged to be at 
high risk of thromboembolic complications, 
such as patients undergoing abdominal 
cancer surgery (see section 5.1). 
Prevention of Venous Thromboembolic 
Events (VTE) in adult medical patients 
who are judged to be at high risk for VTE 
and who are immobilised due to acute 
illness such as cardiac insufficiency and/or 
acute respiratory disorders, and/or acute 
infectious or inflammatory disease.  
Treatment of adults with acute 
symptomatic spontaneous superficial-vein 
thrombosis of the lower limbs without 
concomitant deep-vein thrombosis (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Treatment of unstable angina or non-ST 
segment elevation myocardial infarction 
(UA/NSTEMI) in adultspatients for whom 
urgent (< 120 mins) invasive management 
(PCI) is not indicated (see sections 4.4 
and 5.1). 
Treatment of ST segment elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI) in 
adultspatients who are managed with 
thrombolytics or who initially are to receive 
Page 18/24 
Assessment report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Catheter thrombosis 
during PCI when 
fondaparinux is used as 
sole anti-coagulant adjunct 
to PCI 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1 
which includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Use of targeted follow up questionnaire 
to ensure consistency of data collected 
for spontaneous reports of catheter 
thrombosis 
2.  Evaluate (post-approval) the appropriate 
use of fondaparinux in ACS patients who 
have to undergo PCI according to 
prescribing information. 
no other form of reperfusion therapy. 
Treatment of adults with acute Deep Vein 
Thrombosis (DVT) and treatment of acute 
Pulmonary Embolism (PE), except in 
haemodynamically unstable patients or 
patients who require thrombolysis or 
pulmonary embolectomy. 
Routine risk minimisation which includes:  
1.  Appropriate labelling: 
  Not recommending fondaparinux prior to 
or during primary PCI. 
  Recommendation against use of 
fondaparinux as sole anti-coagulation 
adjunct to non-primary PCI 
  Recommendation to use UFH for anti-
coagulation during non-primary PCI in 
patients treated with fondaparinux 
As shown below: 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions 
for use  
PCI and risk of guiding catheter thrombus  
In STEMI patients undergoing primary 
PCI, the use of fondaparinux prior to and 
during PCI is not recommended.  Similarly, 
in UA/NSTEMI patients with life 
threatening conditions that require urgent 
revascularisation, the use of fondaparinux 
prior to and during PCI is not 
recommended. These are patients with 
refractory or recurrent angina associated 
with dynamic ST deviation, heart failure, 
life-threatening arrhythmias or 
haemodynamic instability. 
In UA/NSTEMI and STEMI patients 
undergoing non-primary PCI, the use of 
fondaparinux as the sole anticoagulant 
during PCI is not recommended, therefore 
UFH should be used according to local 
practice (see section 4.2).  
Assessment report  
Page 19/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Safety concern 
Potential Risks 
Heparin Induced 
Thrombocytopenia 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1 
Routine risk minimisation which includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Use of targeted follow-up questionnaire 
to ensure consistency of data collected 
for spontaneous reports of HIT. 
1.  Appropriate labelling 
 
Thrombocytopenia and the risk of HIT-type 
II are appropriately labelled in the SPC for 
fondaparinux (as shown below): 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions 
for use 
Patients with Heparin Induced 
Thrombocytopenia 
Fondaparinux should be used with caution 
in patients with a history of HIT. The 
efficacy and safety of fondaparinux have 
not been formally studied in patients with 
HIT type II.  Fondaparinux does not bind to 
platelet factor 4 and does not cross-react 
with sera from patients with Heparin 
Induced Thrombocytopenia (HIT) type II.  
However, rare spontaneous reports of HIT 
in patients treated with fondaparinux have 
been received.  To date a causal 
association between treatment with 
fondaparinux and the occurrence of HIT 
has not been established. 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1 
Routine risk minimisation activities which 
includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
  Conduct PASS. 
  Evaluate  (post-approval)  the  adherence 
to 
for 
prescribing 
recommended  use  of  fondaparinux  in 
ACS patients who have to undergo PCI. 
guidance 
the 
1.  Appropriate labelling 
  Recommendation  to  use  UFH  for  anti-
coagulation  during  non-primary  PCI  in 
patients  treated  with  fondaparinux  taking 
into  account 
risk 
including 
last  dose  of 
fondaparinux (as shown below): 
individual  bleeding 
timing  since 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions 
for use 
PCI and risk of guiding catheter thrombus  
In STEMI patients undergoing primary 
PCI, the use of fondaparinux prior to and 
during PCI is not recommended.  Similarly, 
in UA/NSTEMI patients with life 
threatening conditions that require urgent 
revascularisation, the use of fondaparinux 
prior to and during PCI is not 
recommended. These are patients with 
refractory or recurrent angina associated 
with dynamic ST deviation, heart failure, 
life-threatening arrhythmias or 
haemodynamic instability. 
In UA/NSTEMI and STEMI patients 
Page 20/24 
Risk of bleeding in non-
primary PCI when UFH is 
used for anti-coagulation 
during the procedure in 
patients previously treated 
with fondaparinux 
Assessment report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Use of higher VTE 
treatment doses (5mg, 
7.5mg, 10mg) for treatment 
of superficial-vein 
thrombosis 
undergoing non-primary PCI, the use of 
fondaparinux as the sole anticoagulant 
during PCI is not recommended, therefore 
UFH should be used according to local 
practice (see section 4.2).  
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1 
Routine risk minimisation which includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Ongoing review of spontaneous reports 
of haemorrhage in patients treated with 
fondaparinux 
2.  Use of targeted follow-up questionnaire 
to ensure consistency of data collected 
for spontaneous reports of haemorrhage 
with respect to risk factors for 
haemorrhage 
3.  Conduct a drug-utilisation study in order 
to evaluate the adherence to the 
proposed prescribing information 
regarding use of fondaparinux for 
treatment of superficial vein thrombosis 
1.  Appropriate labelling 
  Proper dosing instructions for the 
treatment of superficial-vein thrombosis 
are clearly provided in the proposed SPC 
as shown below: 
4.2  Posology and method of 
administration 
Treatment of superficial-vein thrombosis 
The recommended dose of fondaparinux 
is 2.5 mg once daily, administered by 
subcutaneous injection. Patients eligible 
for fondaparinux 2.5 mg treatment should 
have acute, symptomatic, isolated, 
spontaneous superficial-vein thrombosis of 
the lower limbs, at least 5 cm long and 
documented by ultrasonographic 
investigation or other objective methods. 
Treatment should be initiated as soon as 
possible following diagnosis and after 
exclusion of concomitant DVT or 
superficial-vein thrombosis within 3 cm 
from the sapheno-femoral junction. 
Treatment should be continued for a 
minimum of 30 days and up to a maximum 
of 45 days in patients at high risk of 
thromboembolic complications (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1). Patients could be 
recommended to self-inject the product 
when they are judged willing and able to 
do so. Physicians should provide clear 
instructions for self-injection.    
Patients who are to undergo surgery 
• 
or other invasive procedures. In superficial 
vein thrombosis patients who are to 
undergo surgery or other invasive 
procedures, fondaparinux, where possible, 
should not be given during the 24 hours 
before surgery. Fondaparinux may be 
restarted at least 6 hours post-operatively 
provided haemostasis has been achieved.  
Use of fondaparinux 
(2.5mg) in superficial-vein 
thrombosis patients with 
concomitant DVT. 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1. 
Routine risk minimisation which includes: 
Additional pharmacovigilance which includes: 
1.  Ongoing review of spontaneous reports 
representative of lack of effect received 
1.  Appropriate labelling: 
 
Indications for use are clearly and 
accurately reflected in Section 4.1 of the 
SPC as shown below: 
Assessment report  
Page 21/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
globally. 
2.  Conduct a drug-utilisation study in order 
to evaluate the adherence to the 
proposed prescribing information 
regarding use of fondaparinux for 
treatment of superficial vein thrombosis  
IMPORTANT MISSING INFORMATION 
Use in paediatric patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance as described in 
RMP Section 3.1. 
Assessment report  
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of adults with acute symptomatic 
spontaneous superficial-vein thrombosis of 
the lower limbs without concomitant deep-
vein thrombosis (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
  Warning/Precaution to reinforce proper 
patient population (i.e. presence of 
superficial-vein thrombosis should be 
confirmed and concomitant DVT should be 
objectively excluded prior to initiation of 
therapy) 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions 
for use 
Patients with superficial-vein thrombosis 
Presence of superficial-vein thrombosis 
greater than 3 cm from the sapheno-
femoral junction should be confirmed and 
concomitant DVT should be excluded by 
compression ultrasound or objective 
methods prior to initiating treatment of 
fondaparinux. There are no data regarding 
the use of fondaparinux 2.5 mg in 
superficial-vein thrombosis patients with 
concomitant DVT or with superficial-vein 
thrombosis within 3 cm of  the sapheno-
femoral junction (see section 4.2 and 5.1). 
The safety and efficacy of fondaparinux 2.5 
mg has not been studied in the following 
groups: patients with superficial-vein 
thrombosis following sclerotherapy or 
resulting as a complication of an 
intravenous line, patients with history of 
superficial-vein thrombosis within the 
previous 3 months, patients with history of 
venous thromboembolic disease within the 
previous 6 months, or patients with active 
cancer (see section 4.2 and 5.1). 
Routine risk minimisation which includes: 
1.  Appropriate labelling: 
  Section 4.2 indicates that fondaparinux is 
not recommended for use in children 
below 17 years of age (as shown below): 
4.2  Posology and method of 
administration 
Paediatric population - Fondaparinux is 
not recommended for use in children 
below 17 years of age due to a lack of 
Page 22/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
data on safety and efficacy. 
1.5  Changes to the Product Information 
Section 4.1 of the SPC of the 1.5 and 2.5 mg strengths was changed to include the new indication as 
follows: “Treatment of adults with acute symptomatic spontaneous superficial-vein thrombosis of the 
lower limbs without concomitant deep-vein thrombosis” 
As  a  result  of  the  new  indication  further  changes  were  made  to  sections  4.2,  4.4,  4.8  and  5.1.  The 
Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly.  
Additionally,  the  MAH  took  the  opportunity  to  put  change  several  sections  of  the  SPC,  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet to put them in line with the latest QRD template. 
1.6.  Overall conclusions and benefit-risk assessment 
The scientific interest in different treatment alternatives of SVT has been relatively limited so far. There 
are few or no large well designed trials investigating the benefit and risks of anticoagulant therapy in 
these  patients.  This  may  in  part  be  due  to  the  historically  common  view  that  SVT  is  a  rather  benign 
disease  that  could  primarily  be  treated  conservatively  with  e.g.  elastic  stockings  and  local  treatment. 
An exception has been SVT in the V saphena magna extending close to the sapheno-femoral junction 
where  surgery  often  has  been  regarded  as  indicated.  However,  in  recent  years  the  evidence  has 
increased  that  SVT  may  be  associated  with  a  higher  incidence  of  thrombotic  complications  from  the 
deep  venous  system  than  previously  anticipated.  Furthermore,  anticoagulant  treatment  has  probably 
been  rather  extensively  used  off-label  in  clinical  practice  in  patients  with  more  extensive  SVT,  which 
also  is  reflected  in  some  of  the  current  guidelines.  Thus,  in  this  perspective,  the  relatively  large, 
placebo-controlled study evaluating anticoagulant therapy supporting this indication is of considerable 
scientific interest.  
Efficacy: The single pivotal study supporting the application was generally of an adequate design and 
seems  to  have  been  well  performed.  It  provides  convincing  results  with  regard  to  the  composite 
primary  end  point.  The  majority  of  primary  end  point  events  consisted  of  extension  or  recurrence  of 
SVT.  Such  a  reduction  of  extension  and  recurrence  of  SVT  is,  however,  to  be  regarded  as  clinically 
meaningful  and  most  probably  results  in  reduced  pain  and  symptoms  related  to  the  inflammatory 
process  which  sometimes  can  result  in  temporary  walking  disability.  The  reported  significantly  lower 
incidence of surgical interventions in the fondaparinux group provides additional support for the clinical 
relevance of the reported reduction in the incidence of extension or recurrence of the SVT. 
The number of events with probably larger risks of severe complications (DVT or LE) was considerably 
lower. By treating 1500 patients 6 symptomatic cases of PE and 15 of DVT was prevented according to 
the results (p=0.015 and 0.001, respectively). However, such a reduction of risk has been accepted for 
wide spread prophylaxis in surgical patients at moderate risk.  
The  results  were  consistent  over  different  demographic  subgroups  as  well  as  in  subgroups  with 
different  SVT  characteristics  and  risk  factors.  It  has  been  demonstrated  by  the  MAH  that  treatment 
effects were similar in subgroups with different length of the SVT. 
The  recommended  treatment  duration  has  been  discussed  in  relation  to  the  CHMP  questions  and  a 
duration of a minimum of 4 weeks with maximum 6 weeks is reflected in the revised SPC. 
Safety: The reported bleeding rates were low. The bleeding risk in patients with SVT is not expected to 
be  much  different  from  the  general  population  of  the  same  age  and  gender  distribution.  However, 
treatment  with  NSAID  or  aspirin  is  probably  not  uncommon  in  these  patients  and  thus  they  are 
expected to be at a somewhat increased risk for bleeding when treated with anticoagulants.  
However,  no  apparent  differences  in  bleeding  rates  between  the  treatment  groups  were  reported 
overall or in the subgroups of special interest as those mentioned above. This probably reflects that the 
target population generally has a lower bleeding risk, as compared for example with surgical patients 
who are treated prophylactically with similar doses. Further characterisation of the bleedings has been 
provided in the responses to CHMP questions and these analyses are judged not to change the overall 
Assessment report  
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conclusions summarised above. In order to achieve similar exposure in patients with renal impairment 
(estimated  CrCl  20-50  ml/min)  as  in  the  overall  population  and  to  reduce  the  risk  for  bleedings  in 
these  patients  a  reduced  dose  is  recommended  (1.5  mg).  This  is  consistent  with  the  dosing 
recommendation for prophylaxis in surgery patients. 
As pointed out above it may have been difficult to capture subclinical bleedings with the chosen study 
design. No laboratory tests were done after screening and e.g. occult gastrointestinal bleedings could 
easily have been missed.  
Conclusions on benefit risk balance 
The benefit risk balance of the new indication is judged to be favourable. 
2.  Conclusion 
On  22  July  2010  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (see Letter of Undertaking attached to this report): 
Area 
Clinical 
Description 
The MAH commits to perform a drug utilisation study in order 
to evaluate adherence to prescribing guidance regarding the 
use of fondaparinux for the treatment of superficial venous 
trombosis.   
Due date 
Full clinical 
study 
protocol to 
be submitted 
by Dec 2010 
3.  EPAR changes 
The  EPAR  will  be  updated  following  Commission  Decision  for  this  variation.  In  particular  the  EPAR 
module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope: 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new therapeutic indication or 
modification of an approved one 
Extension of indication to include the treatment of adult patients with acute symptomatic spontaneous 
superficial vein thrombosis of the lower limbs without concomitant deep-vein thrombosis to the 1.5mg 
and 2.5 mg strengths. 
Summary / scientific discussion: 
The Scientific discussion of the CHMP Assessment Report will be published 
Assessment report  
Page 24/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
