Summary of Risk Management Plan for ARMISARTE 25 mg/ml concentrate 
for solution for infusion  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ARMISARTE 25 mg/ml concentrate 
for solution for infusion (hereinafter referred to as Armisarte). The RMP details important risks 
of Armisarte, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Armisarte's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Armisarte's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Armisarte should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Armisarte should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Armisarte's 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It is used for 
Armisarte is authorised for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma in combination with 
cisplatin and in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer in combination with cisplatin and as 
monotherapy in the maintenance treatment and second line treatment in patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains pemetrexed as the active 
substance and it is given intravenously. 
Further information about the evaluation of Armisarte’s benefits can be found in Armisarte’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/armisarte-
previously-pemetrexed-actavis. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of Armisarte, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Armisarte's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Armisarte are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Armisarte. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1: 
Summary of Safety Concerns  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
•  Medication errors 
Missing information 
•  None 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Table 2: 
Summary of Pharmacovigilance Activities and Risk Minimisation Activities 
by Safety Concern 
Important potential risk: Medication errors 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
PSUSA (Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002330/201802) 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not known 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Armisarte. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Armisarte. 
 
