EMA/87638/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004109 
EPAR summary for the public 
Armisarte1 
pemetrexed 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Armisarte. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Armisarte. 
For practical information about using Armisarte, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Armisarte and what is it used for? 
Armisarte is a cancer medicine used to treat two types of lung cancer:  
  malignant pleural mesothelioma (a cancer of the lining of the lungs that is usually caused by 
exposure to asbestos), where it is used together with cisplatin in patients who have not received 
chemotherapy before and whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery;  
 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’, where it is used either 
in combination with cisplatin in previously untreated patients or on its own in patients who have 
previously received cancer treatment. It can also be used as a maintenance treatment in patients 
who have received a platinum-based chemotherapy.  
Armisarte is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that Armisarte is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Alimta, but it is available in a different form. While Alimta 
is available as a powder to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein, Armisarte is 
available as a concentrated liquid to be made up into a solution for infusion.  
Armisarte contains the active substance pemetrexed. 
1 1Previously known as Pemetrexed Actavis. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                       
How is Armisarte used? 
Armisarte is available as a concentrate for solution for infusion into a vein. The medicine can only be 
obtained with a prescription and should only be given under the supervision of a doctor who is qualified 
in the use of cancer medicines.  
The recommended dose is 500 mg per square metre of body surface area (calculated using the 
patient’s height and weight). It is given once every three weeks as an infusion lasting 10 minutes. To 
reduce side effects, patients should take a corticosteroid (a type of medicine that reduces 
inflammation) and folic acid (a type of vitamin), and receive injections of vitamin B12 during treatment 
with Armisarte. When Armisarte is given with cisplatin, an ‘anti-emetic’ medicine (to prevent vomiting) 
and fluids (to prevent dehydration) should also be given before or after the cisplatin dose. 
Treatment should be delayed or stopped, or the dose reduced, in patients whose blood counts are 
abnormal or who have certain other side effects. For more information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Armisarte work? 
The active substance in Armisarte, pemetrexed, is a cytotoxic medicine (a medicine that kills cells that 
are dividing, such as cancer cells), which belongs to the group ‘antimetabolites’. In the body, 
pemetrexed is converted into an active form that blocks the activity of the enzymes that are involved 
in producing ‘nucleotides’ (the building blocks of DNA and RNA, the genetic material of cells). As a 
result, the active form of pemetrexed slows down the formation of DNA and RNA and prevents the cells 
from dividing and multiplying. The conversion of pemetrexed into its active form occurs more readily in 
cancer cells than in normal cells, leading to higher levels of the active form of the medicine and a 
longer duration of action in cancer cells. This results in the division of cancer cells being reduced, while 
normal cells are only slightly affected. 
How has Armisarte been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on pemetrexed. No additional studies were 
needed as Armisarte is a hybrid medicine that is given by infusion and contains the same active 
substance as the reference medicine, Alimta. 
What are the benefits and risks of Armisarte? 
Because Armisarte is a hybrid medicine that is given by infusion and contains the same active 
substance as the reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the 
reference medicine’s. 
Why is Armisarte approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Armisarte has been shown to be comparable to Alimta. Therefore, the CHMP’s 
view was that, as for Alimta, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended 
that Armisarte be approved for use in the EU. 
Armisarte  
EMA/87638/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Armisarte? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Armisarte is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Armisarte, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Armisarte 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pemetrexed Actavis on 18 January 2016. The name of the medicine was changed to Armisarte on 10 
February 2016. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Armisarte can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Armisarte, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2016. 
Armisarte  
EMA/87638/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
