ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Arsenic trioxide Accord 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of  concentrate for solution for infusion contains 1 mg of arsenic trioxide.  
One vial of 10 ml contains 10 mg of arsenic trioxide.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion  
Sterile, clear, colourless, aqueous solution, free from particles having a pH range of 7.7 – 8.3. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Arsenic trioxide is indicated for induction of remission, and consolidation in adult patients with: 
• 
Newly diagnosed low-to-intermediate risk acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) (white 
blood cell count, ≤ 10 x 103/µl) in combination with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) 
Relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) (previous treatment should 
have included a retinoid and chemotherapy) 
• 
characterised by the presence of the t(15;17) translocation and/or the presence of the  promyelocytic 
leukaemia/retinoic-acid-receptor-alpha (PML/RAR-alpha) gene. 
The response rate of other acute myelogenous leukaemia subtypes to arsenic trioxide has not been 
examined. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered under the supervision of a physician who is experienced in the 
management of acute leukaemias, and the special monitoring procedures described in section 4.4 must 
be followed. 
Posology 
The same dose is recommended for adults and elderly. 
Newly diagnosed low-to-intermediate risk acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) 
Induction treatment schedule 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered intravenously at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day, given daily until 
complete remission is achieved. If complete remission has not occurred by day 60, dosing must be 
discontinued. 
Consolidation schedule 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered intravenously at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day, 5 days per week. 
Treatment should be continued for 4 weeks on and 4 weeks off, for a total of 4 cycles. 
Relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Induction treatment schedule 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered intravenously at a fixed dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day given daily 
until complete remission is achieved (less than 5% blasts present in cellular bone marrow with no 
evidence of leukaemic cells). If complete remission has not occurred by day 50, dosing must be 
discontinued. 
Consolidation schedule 
Consolidation treatment must begin 3 to 4 weeks after completion of induction therapy. Arsenic 
trioxide is to be administered intravenously at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day for 25 doses given 5 days 
per week, followed by 2 days interruption, repeated for 5 weeks. 
Dose delay, modification and reinitiation 
Treatment with arsenic trioxide must be temporarily interrupted before the scheduled end of therapy 
at any time that a toxicity grade 3 or greater on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity 
Criteria is observed and judged to be possibly related to Arsenic trioxide treatment. Patients who 
experience such reactions that are considered arsenic trioxide related must resume treatment only 
after resolution of the toxic event or after recovery to baseline status of the abnormality that 
prompted the interruption. In such cases, treatment must resume at 50% of the preceding daily dose. 
If the toxic event does not recur within 7 days of restarting treatment at the reduced dose, the daily 
dose can be escalated back to 100% of the original dose. Patients who experience a recurrence of 
toxicity must be removed from treatment. 
For ECG, electrolytes abnormalities and hepatotoxicity see section 4.4.  
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Since no data are available across all hepatic impairment groups and hepatotoxic effects may occur 
during  the  treatment  with  Arsenic  trioxide,  caution  is  advised  in  the  use  of  Arsenic  trioxide  in 
patients with hepatic impairment (see section 4.4 and 4.8). 
Patients with renal impairment 
Since no data are available across all renal impairment groups, caution is advised in the use of Arsenic 
trioxide in patients with renal impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Arsenic trioxide in children aged up to 17 years has not been established. 
Currently available data for children aged 5 to 16 years are described in section 5.1 but no 
recommendation on a posology can be made. No data are available for children under 5 years. 
Method of administration 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered intravenously over 1-2 hours. The infusion duration may be 
extended up to 4 hours if vasomotor reactions are observed. A central venous catheter is not required. 
Patients must be hospitalised at the beginning of treatment due to symptoms of disease and to ensure 
adequate monitoring. 
For instructions on preparation of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Clinically unstable APL patients are especially at risk and will require more frequent monitoring of 
electrolyte and glycaemia levels as well as more frequent haematologic, hepatic, renal and coagulation 
parameter tests. 
Leukocyte activation syndrome (APL differentiation syndrome) 
27 % of patients with APL, in the relapsed/refractory setting, treated with arsenic trioxide have 
experienced symptoms similar to a syndrome called the retinoic-acid-acute promyelocytic 
leukaemia (RA-APL) or APL differentiation syndrome, characterised by fever, dyspnoea, weight 
gain, pulmonary infiltrates and pleural or pericardial effusions, with or without leucocytosis. This 
syndrome can be fatal. In newly diagnosed APL patients treated with arsenic trioxide and 
all-trans-retinoic acid  ( ATRA), APL differentiation syndrome was observed in 19 % including 
5 severe cases. At the first signs that could suggest the syndrome (unexplained fever, dyspnoea 
and/or weight gain, abnormal chest auscultatory findings or radiographic abnormalities), treatment 
with arsenic trioxide must be temporarily discontinued and high-dose steroids (dexamethasone 10 mg 
intravenously twice a day) must be immediately initiated, irrespective of the leukocyte count and 
continued for at least 3 days or longer until signs and symptoms have abated. If clinically 
justified/required, concomitant diuretic therapy is also recommended. The majority of patients do not 
require permanent termination of arsenic trioxide therapy during treatment of the APL differentiation 
syndrome. As soon as signs and symptoms have subsided, treatment with arsenic trioxide can be 
resumed at 50 % of the previous dose during the first 7 days. Thereafter, in the absence of worsening 
of the previous toxicity, arsenic trioxide might be resumed at full dosage. In the case of the 
reappearance of symptoms arsenic trioxide should be reduced to the previous dosage. In order to 
prevent the development of the APL differentiation syndrome during induction treatment, prednisone 
(0.5 mg/kg body weight per day throughout induction treatment) may be administered from day 1 of 
arsenic trioxide application to the end of induction therapy in APL patients. It is recommended that 
chemotherapy not be added to treatment with steroids since there is no experience with 
administration of both steroids and chemotherapy during treatment of the leukocyte activation 
syndrome due to arsenic trioxide. Post-marketing experience suggests that a similar syndrome may 
occur in patients with other types of malignancy. Monitoring and management for these patients 
should be as described above. 
Electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities 
Arsenic trioxide can cause QT interval prolongation and complete atrioventricular block. QT 
prolongation can lead to a torsade de pointes-type ventricular arrhythmia, which can be fatal. 
Previous treatment with anthracyclines may increase the risk of QT prolongation. The risk of torsade 
de pointes is related to the extent of QT prolongation, concomitant administration of QT prolonging 
medicinal products (such as class Ia and III antiarrythmics (e.g. quinidine, amiodarone, sotalol, 
dofetilide), antipsychotics (e.g. thioridazine), antidepressants (e.g. amitriptyline), some macrolides 
(e.g. erythromycin), some antihistamines (e.g. terfenadine and astemizole), some quinolone 
antibiotics (e.g. sparfloxacin), and other individual medicinal products known to increase QT interval 
(e.g. cisapride)), a history of torsade de pointes, pre-existing QT interval prolongation, congestive 
heart failure, administration of potassium-wasting diuretics, amphotericin B or other conditions that 
result in hypokalemia or hypomagnesaemia. In clinical trials, in the relapsed/refractory setting, 40% 
of patients treated with arsenic trioxide experienced at least one QT corrected (QTc) interval 
prolongation greater than 500 msec. Prolongation of the QTc was observed between 1 and 5 weeks 
after arsenic trioxide infusion, and then returned to baseline by the end of 8 weeks after arsenic 
trioxide infusion. One patient (receiving multiple, concomitant medicinal products, including 
amphotericin B) had asymptomatic torsade de pointes during induction therapy for relapsed APL 
with arsenic trioxide. In newly diagnosed APL patients 15.6 % showed QTc prolongation with 
arsenic trioxide in combination with ATRA (see section 4.8). In one newly diagnosed patient 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
induction treatment was terminated because of severe prolongation of the QTc interval and 
electrolyte abnormalities on day 3 of induction treatment. 
ECG and electrolyte monitoring recommendations 
Prior to initiating therapy with arsenic trioxide, a 12-lead ECG must be performed and serum 
electrolytes (potassium, calcium, and magnesium) and creatinine must be assessed; pre-existing 
electrolyte abnormalities must be corrected and, if possible, medicinal products that are known to 
prolong the QT interval must be discontinued. Patients with risk factors of QTc prolongation or risk 
factors of Torsade de pointes should be monitored with continuous cardiac monitoring (ECG). For 
QTc greater than 500 msec, corrective measures must be completed and the QTc reassessed with serial 
ECGs and, if available, a specialist advice could be sought prior to considering using arsenic trioxide. 
During therapy with arsenic trioxide, potassium concentrations must be kept above 4 mEq/l and 
magnesium concentrations must be kept above 1.8 mg/dl. Patients who reach an absolute QT interval 
value > 500 msec must be reassessed and immediate action must be taken to correct concomitant risk 
factors, if any, while the risk/benefit of continuing versus suspending arsenic trioxide therapy must be 
considered. If syncope, rapid or irregular heartbeat develops, the patient must be hospitalised and 
monitored continuously, serum electrolytes must be assessed, arsenic trioxide therapy must be 
temporarily discontinued until the QTc interval regresses to below 460 msec, electrolyte abnormalities 
are corrected, and the syncope and irregular heartbeat cease. After recovery, treatment should be 
resumed at 50 % of the preceding daily dose. If QTc prolongation does not recur within 7 days of 
restarting treatment at the reduced dose, treatment with arsenic trioxide can be resumed at 0.11 mg/kg 
body weight per day for a second week. The daily dose can be escalated back to 100% of the original 
dose if no prolongation occurs. There are no data on the effect of arsenic trioxide on the QTc interval 
during the infusion. Electrocardiograms must be obtained twice weekly, and more frequently for 
clinically unstable patients, during induction and consolidation. 
Hepatotoxicity (grade 3 or greater) 
In newly diagnosed patients with low to intermediate risk APL 63.2 % developed grade 3 or 4 
hepatic toxic effects during induction or consolidation treatment with arsenic trioxide in combination 
with ATRA (see section 4.8). However, toxic effects resolved with temporary discontinuation of 
either arsenic trioxide, ATRA or both. Treatment with arsenic trioxide must be discontinued before 
the scheduled end of therapy at any time that a hepatotoxicity grade 3 or greater on the National 
Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria is observed. As soon as bilirubin and/or SGOT and/or 
alkaline phosphatase are decreased to below 4 times the normal upper level, treatment with arsenic 
trioxide should be resumed at 50 % of the previous dose during the first 7 days. Thereafter, in 
absence of worsening of the previous toxicity, arsenic trioxide should be resumed at full dosage. In 
case of reappearance of hepatotoxicity, arsenic trioxide must be permanently discontinued. 
Dose delay and modification 
Treatment with arsenic trioxide must be temporarily interrupted before the scheduled end of therapy 
at any time that a toxicity grade 3 or greater on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity 
Criteria is observed and judged to be possibly related to arsenic trioxide treatment (see section 4.2). 
Laboratory tests 
The patient’s electrolyte and glycaemia levels, as well as haematologic, hepatic, renal and coagulation 
parameter tests must be monitored at least twice weekly, and more frequently for clinically unstable 
patients during the induction phase and at least weekly during the consolidation phase. 
Renal impairment 
Since no data are available across all renal impairment groups, caution is advised in the use of 
arsenic trioxide in patients with renal impairment. The experience in patients with severe renal 
impairment is insufficient to determine if dose adjustment is required. 
The use of arsenic trioxide in patients on dialysis has not been studied. 
Hepatic impairment 
Since no data are available across all hepatic impairment groups and hepatotoxic effects may occur 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during the treatment with arsenic trioxide caution is advised in the use of arsenic trioxide in patients 
with hepatic impairment (see section 4.4 on hepatotoxicity and section 4.8). The experience in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment is insufficient to determine if dose adjustment is  required. 
Elderly 
There is limited clinical data on the use of arsenic trioxide in the elderly population. Caution is needed 
in these patients. 
Hyperleucocytosis 
Treatment with arsenic trioxide has been associated with the development of hyperleucocytosis  
(≥ 10 x 103/μl) in some relapsed/refractory APL patients. There did not appear to be a 
relationship between baseline white blood cell (WBC) counts and development of 
hyperleucocytosis nor did there appear to be a correlation between baseline WBC count and peak 
WBC counts. Hyperleucocytosis was never treated with additional chemotherapy and resolved 
on continuation of arsenic trioxide. WBC counts during consolidation were not as high as during 
induction treatment and were < 10 x 103/μl, except in one patient who had a WBC count of 22 x 
103/μl during consolidation. Twenty relapsed/refractory APL patients (50 %) experienced 
leucocytosis; however, in all these patients, the WBC count was declining or had normalized by 
the time of bone marrow remission and cytotoxic chemotherapy or leucopheresis was not 
required. In newly diagnosed patients with low to intermediate risk APL leucocytosis developed 
during induction therapy in 35 of 74 (47 %) patients (see section 4.8). However all cases were 
successfully managed with hydroxyurea therapy. 
In newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory APL patients who develop sustained leucocytosis after 
initiation of therapy, hydroxyurea should be administered. Hydroxyurea should be continued at a 
given dose to keep the white blood cell count ≤ 10 x 103/μl and subsequently tapered. 
Table 1 Recommendation for initiation of hydroxyurea 
 WBC 
 Hydroxyurea 
 500 mg four times a day 
3
/µl 
 10–50 x 10
3
/µl 
 > 50 x 10
 1000 mg four times a day 
Development of second primary malignancies 
The active ingredient of Arsenic trioxide Accord, arsenic trioxide, is a human carcinogen. Monitor 
patients for the development of second primary malignancies. 
Encephalopathy 
Cases of encephalopathy were reported with treatment with arsenic trioxide. Wernicke encephalopathy 
after arsenic trioxide treatment was reported in patients with vitamin B1 deficiency. Patients at risk of 
B1 deficiency should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of encephalopathy after arsenic 
trioxide initiation. Some cases recovered with vitamin B1 supplementation. 
Excipient with known effect 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal assessments of pharmacokinetic interactions between arsenic trioxide and other therapeutic 
medicinal products have been conducted. 
Medicinal products known to cause QT/QTc interval prolongation, hypokalaemia or 
hypomagnesaemia 
QT/QTc prolongation is expected during treatment with arsenic trioxide, and Torsade de pointes and 
complete heart block have been reported. Patients who are receiving, or who have received, medicinal 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
products known to cause hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia, such as diuretics or amphotericin B, 
may be at higher risk for torsade de pointes. Caution is advised when arsenic trioxide is co-
administered with other medicinal products known to cause QT/QTc interval prolongation such as 
macrolide antibiotics, the antipsychotic thioridazine, or medicinal products known to cause 
hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia. Additional information about QT prolonging medicinal agents is 
provided in Section 4.4. 
Medicinal products known to cause hepatotoxic effects 
Hepatotoxic effects may occur during the treatment with arsenic trioxide, caution is advised when 
arsenic trioxide is co-administered with other medicinal products known to cause hepatotoxic effects 
(see section 4.4 and 4.8). 
Other antileukaemic medicinal products 
The influence of arsenic trioxide on the efficacy of other antileukaemic medicinal products is 
unknown. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Contraception in males and females 
Due to the genotoxic risk of arsenic compounds (see section 5.3), women of childbearing potential 
must use effective contraceptive measure treatment with arsenic trioxide and for 6 months following 
completion of treatment. 
Men should use effective contraceptive measures and be advised to not father a child while receiving 
arsenic trioxide, and for 3 months following completion of treatment. 
Pregnancy 
Arsenic trioxide has been shown to be embryotoxic and teratogenic in animal studies (see section 5.3). 
There are no studies in pregnant women using arsenic trioxide. If this medicinal product is used during 
pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this product, the patient must be informed 
of the potential harm to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Arsenic is excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breast-
feeding infants and children from arsenic trioxide, breast-feeding must be discontinued prior to and 
throughout administration and for two weeks after the last dose. 
Fertility 
No clinical or non-clinical fertility studies have been conducted with arsenic trioxide. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Arsenic trioxide has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Related adverse reactions of CTC grade 3 and 4 occurred in 37% of relapsed/refractory APL 
patients in clinical trials. The most commonly reported reactions were hyperglycaemia, 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypokalaemia, neutropenia, and increased alanine amino transferase (ALT). Leucocytosis occurred 
in 50% of patients with relapsed/refractory APL, as determined by haematology assessments. 
Serious adverse reactions were common (1-10%) and not unexpected in the relapsed/refractory 
population. Those serious adverse reactions attributed to arsenic trioxide included APL differentiation 
syndrome (3), leucocytosis (3), prolonged QT interval (4, 1 with torsade de pointes), atrial 
fibrillation/atrial flutter (1), hyperglycaemia (2) and a variety of serious adverse reactions related to 
haemorrhage, infections, pain, diarrhoea, nausea. 
In general, treatment-emergent adverse events tended to decrease over time, in relapsed/refractory 
APL patients perhaps accounted for by amelioration of the underlying disease process. Patients 
tended to tolerate consolidation and maintenance treatment with less toxicity than in induction. This 
is probably due to the confounding of adverse events by the uncontrolled disease process early on in 
the treatment course and the myriad concomitant medicinal products required to control symptoms 
and morbidity. 
In a phase 3, multicentre, non-inferiority trial comparing all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) plus 
chemotherapy with ATRA plus arsenic trioxide in newly diagnosed low-to-intermediate risk APL 
patients (Study APL0406; see also section 5.1), serious adverse reactions including hepatic toxicity, 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and QTc prolongation were observed in patients treated with arsenic 
trioxide. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following undesirable effects have been reported in the APL0406 study in newly diagnosed 
patients and in clinical trials and/or post-marketing experience in relapsed/refractory APL patients. 
Undesirable effects are listed in table 2 below as MedDRA preferred term by system organ class and 
frequencies observed during arsenic trioxide clinical trials in 52 patients with refractory/relapsed 
APL. Frequencies are defined as: (very common ≥ 1/10), (common ≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), (uncommon ≥ 
1/1,000 to < 1/100), not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 2 
All grades 
Grades ≥ 3 
Infections and infestations 
Herpes zoster 
Sepsis 
Pneumonia 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Febrile neutropenia 
Leukocytosis 
Neutropenia 
Pancytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Anaemia 
Leukopenia 
Lymphopenia 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hyperglycaemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hypernatraemia 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
8 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All grades 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Not known 
Ketoacidosis 
Hypermagnesaemia 
Dehydration 
Fluid retention 
Psychiatric disorders 
Confusional state 
Nervous system disorders 
Paraesthesia 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Convulsion 
Encephalopathy, Wernicke 
encephalopathy 
Eye disorders 
Vision blurred 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Pericardial effusion 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Cardiac failure 
Ventricular tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Vasculitis 
Hypotension 
Common 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Differentiation syndrome 
Dyspnoea 
Hypoxia 
Pleural effusion 
Pleuritic pain 
Pulmonary alveolar 
haemorrhage 
Pneumonitis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Pruritus 
Very common 
Rash 
Common 
Erythema 
Face oedema 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Bone pain 
Renal and urinary disorders   
Renal failure 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Pyrexia 
Pain 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Not known 
Common 
9 
Grades ≥ 3 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fatigue 
Oedema 
Chest pain 
Chills 
Investigations 
Alanine amino transferase 
increased 
Aspartate amino transferase 
increased 
Electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Blood creatinine increased 
Weight increased 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase 
increased* 
All grades 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Grades ≥ 3 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Not known* 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known* 
*In the  CALGB  study  C9710,  2  cases  of grade  ≥3  increased  GGT  were  reported  out of the 
200 patients who received arsenic trioxide consolidation cycles (cycle 1 and cycle 2) versus 
none in the control arm. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Differentiation syndrome 
During arsenic trioxide treatment, 14 of the 52 patients in the APL studies in the relapsed setting had 
one or more symptoms of APL differentiation syndrome, characterised by fever, dyspnoea, weight 
gain, pulmonary infiltrates and pleural or pericardial effusions, with or without leucocytosis (see 
section 4.4). Twenty-seven patients had leucocytosis (WBC ≥ 10 x 103/µl) during induction, 4 of 
whom had values above 100,000/µl. Baseline white blood cell (WBC) counts did not correlate with 
development of leucocytosis on study, and WBC counts during consolidation therapy were not as 
high as during induction. In these studies, leucocytosis was not treated with chemotherapeutic 
medicinal products.  
Medicinal products that are used to lower the white blood cell count often exacerbate the toxicities 
associated with leucocytosis, and no standard approach has proven effective. One patient treated 
under a compassionate use program died from cerebral infarct due to leucocytosis, following 
treatment with chemotherapeutic medicinal products to lower WBC count. Observation is the 
recommended approach with intervention only in selected cases. 
Mortality in the pivotal studies in the relapsed setting from disseminated intravascular coagulation 
(DIC) associated haemorrhage was very common (> 10%), which is consistent with the early 
mortality reported in the literature. 
In newly diagnosed patients with low to intermediate risk APL, differentiation syndrome was 
observed in 19 % including 5 severe cases. 
In post marketing experience, a differentiation syndrome, like retinoic acid syndrome, has also been 
reported for the treatment of malignancies other than APL with arsenic trioxide. 
QT interval prolongation 
Arsenic trioxide can cause QT interval prolongation (see section 4.4). QT prolongation can lead to a 
torsade de pointes-type ventricular arrhythmia, which can be fatal. The risk of torsade de pointes is 
related to the extent of QT prolongation, concomitant administration of QT prolonging medicinal 
products, a history of torsade de pointes, pre-existing QT interval prolongation, congestive heart 
failure, administration of potassium-wasting diuretics, or other conditions that result in hypokalaemia 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or hypomagnesaemia. One patient (receiving multiple, concomitant medicinal products, including 
amphotericin B) had asymptomatic torsade de pointes during induction therapy for relapsed APL 
with arsenic trioxide. She went onto consolidation without further evidence of QT prolongation. 
In newly diagnosed patients, with low to intermediate risk APL, QTc prolongation was observed in 
15.6 %. In one patient induction treatment was terminated because of severe prolongation of the QTc 
interval and electrolyte abnormalities on day 3. 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Peripheral neuropathy, characterised by paraesthesia/dysaesthisia, is a common and well known 
effect of environmental arsenic. Only 2 relapsed/refractory APL patients discontinued treatment early 
due to this adverse event and one went on to receive additional arsenic trioxide on a subsequent 
protocol. Forty-four per cent of relapsed/refractory APL patients experienced symptoms that could be 
associated with neuropathy; most were mild to moderate and were reversible upon cessation of 
treatment with arsenic trioxide. 
Hepatotoxicity (grade 3-4) 
In newly diagnosed patients with low to intermediate risk APL 63.2 % developed grade 3 or 4 
hepatic toxic effects during induction or consolidation treatment with arsenic trioxide in combination 
with ATRA. However, toxic effects resolved with temporary discontinuation of either arsenic 
trioxide, ATRA or both (see section 4.4). 
Haematological and gastrointestinal toxicity 
In newly diagnosed patients with low to intermediate risk APL, gastrointestinal toxicity, grade 3-4 
neutropenia and grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia occurred, however these were 2.2 times less frequent 
in patients treated with arsenic trioxide in combination with ATRA compared to patients treated with 
ATRA + chemotherapy. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
If symptoms suggestive of serious acute arsenic toxicity (e.g. convulsions, muscle weakness and 
confusion) appear, arsenic trioxide must be immediately discontinued and chelating therapy with 
penicillamine at a daily dose ≤ 1 g per day may be considered. The duration of treatment with 
penicillamine must be evaluated taking into account the urinary arsenic laboratory values. For 
patients who cannot take oral medicinal product, dimercaprol administered at a dose of 3 mg/kg 
intramuscularly every 4 hours until any immediately life-threatening toxicity has subsided may be 
considered. Thereafter, penicillamine at a daily dose ≤ 1 g per day may be given. In the presence of 
coagulopathy, the oral administration of the chelating agent Dimercaptosuccinic Acid Succimer 
(DCI) 10 mg/kg or 350 mg/m2 every 8 hours during 5 days and then every 12 hours during 2 weeks is 
recommended. For patients with severe, acute arsenic overdose, dialysis should be considered. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01XX27 
Mechanism of action 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mechanism of action of arsenic trioxide is not completely understood. Arsenic trioxide causes 
morphological changes and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) fragmentation characteristic of apoptosis 
in NB4 human promyelocytic leukaemia cells in vitro. Arsenic trioxide also causes damage or 
degradation of the fusion protein  promyelocytic leukaemia/retinoic acid receptor-alpha (PML/RAR 
alpha). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Newly diagnosed non high risk APL patients 
Arsenic trioxide has been investigated in 77 newly diagnosed patients with low to intermediate risk 
APL, in a controlled, randomized, non-inferiority Phase 3 clinical study comparing the efficacy and 
safety of arsenic trioxide combined with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) with those of 
ATRA+chemotherapy (eg, idarubicin and mitoxantrone) (Study APL0406). Patients with newly 
diagnosed APL confirmed by the presence of t(15; 17) or PML-RARα by RT-PCR or micro 
speckled PML nuclear distribution in leukaemic cells were included. No data are available on 
patient with variant translocations like t(11;17) (PLZF/RARα). Patients with significant 
arrhythmias, EKG abnormalities (congenital long QT syndrome, history or presence of significant 
ventricular or atrial tachyarrhythmia, clinically significant resting bradycardia (<50 beats per 
minute), QTc > 450 msec on screening EKG, right bundle branch block plus left anterior hemiblock, 
bifascicular block) or neuropathy were excluded from the study. Patients in the ATRA+ arsenic 
trioxide treatment group received oral ATRA at 45 mg/m2 daily and iv arsenic trioxide at 0.15 
mg/kg daily until CR. During consolidation, ATRA was given at the same dose for periods of 2 
weeks on and 2 weeks off for a total of 7 courses, and arsenic trioxide was given at the same dose 5 
days per week, 4 weeks on and 4 weeks off, for a total of 4 courses. Patients in the 
ATRA+chemotherapy treatment group received iv idarubicin at 12 mg/m2 on days 2, 4, 6, and 8 and 
oral ATRA at 45 mg/m2 daily until CR. During consolidation, patients received idarubicin at 5 
mg/m2 on days 1 to 4 and ATRA at 45 mg/m2 daily for 15 days, then iv mitoxantrone at 10 mg/m2 
on days 1 to 5 and ATRA again at 45 mg/m2  daily for 15 days, and finally a single dose of 
idarubicin at 12 mg/m2 and ATRA at 45 mg/m2 daily for 15 days. Each course of consolidation was 
initiated at haematological recovery from the previous course defined as absolute neutrophil count 
>1.5×109/L and platelets >100×109/L. Patients in the ATRA+chemotherapy treatment group also 
received maintenance treatment for up to 2 years, consisting of oral 6-mercaptopurine at 50 mg/m2 
daily, intramuscular methotrexate at 15 mg/m2 weekly, and ATRA at 45 mg/m2 daily for 15 days 
every 3 months. 
The key efficacy results are summarised in table 3 below: 
Table 3 
Endpoint 
ATRA +  
Arsenic 
trioxide 
(n = 77) 
[%] 
ATRA +  
Chemotherapy 
(n = 79) 
[%] 
Confidence 
interval (CI) 
P-value 
2-Year event-free 
survival (EFS) 
97 
86 
95 % CI for the 
difference, 2-22 
percentage 
points 
p<0.001 
for noninferiority 
p = 0.02 
for superiority of 
ATRA+Arsenic 
trioxide 
Hematologic 
complete remission 
(HCR) 
100 
95 
p = 0.12 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2-Year overall 
survival (OS) 
2-Year disease-free 
survival (DFS) 
99 
97 
91 
90 
2-Year cumulative 
incidence of relapse 
(CIR) 
APL = acute promyelocytic leukaemia; ATRA = all-trans-retinoic acid 
1 
6 
p = 0.02 
p = 0.11 
p = 0.24 
Relapsed/refractory APL 
Arsenic trioxide has been investigated in 52 APL patients, previously treated with an anthracycline 
and a retinoid regimen, in two open-label, single-arm, non-comparative studies. One was a single 
investigator clinical study (n=12) and the other was a multicentre, 9-institution study (n=40). 
Patients in the first study received a median dose of 0.16 mg/kg/day of arsenic trioxide (range 0.06 
to 0.20 mg/kg/day) and patients in the multicentre study received a fixed dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day. 
Arsenic trioxide was administered intravenously over 1 to 2 hours until the bone marrow was free of 
leukaemic cells, up to a maximum of 60 days. Patients with complete remission received 
consolidation therapy with arsenic trioxide for 25 additional doses over a 5 weeks period. 
Consolidation therapy began 6 weeks (range, 3-8) after induction in the single institution study and 
4 weeks (range, 3-6) in the multicentre study. Complete remission (CR) was defined as the absence 
of visible leukaemic cells in the bone marrow and peripheral recovery of platelets and white blood 
cells. 
Patients in the single centre study had relapsed following 1-6 prior therapy regimens and 2 patients 
had relapsed following stem cell transplantation. Patients in the multicentre study had relapsed 
following 1-4 prior therapy regimens and 5 patients had relapsed following stem cell transplantation. 
The median age in the single centre study was 33 years (age range 9 to 75). The median age in the 
multicentre study was 40 years (age range 5 to 73). 
The results are summarised in the table 4 below. 
Table 4 
Arsenic trioxide dose, 
mg/kg/day (median, range) 
Complete remission 
Time to bone marrow 
remission (median) 
Time to CR (median) 
18-Month survival 
Single centre trial 
N=12 
0.16 (0.06 – 0.20) 
Multicentre trial 
N=40 
0.15 
11 (92%) 
32 days 
54 days 
67% 
34 (85%) 
35 days 
59 days 
66% 
The single institution study included 2 paediatric patients (< 18 years old), both of whom achieved 
CR. The multicentre trial included 5 paediatric patients (< 18 years old), 3 of whom achieved CR. No 
children of less than 5 years of age were treated. 
In a follow-up treatment after consolidation, 7 patients in the single institution study and 18 patients 
in the multicentre study received further maintenance therapy with arsenic trioxide. Three patients 
from the single institution study and 15 patients from the multicentre study had stem cell transplants 
after completing arsenic trioxide. The Kaplan-Meier median CR duration for the single institution 
study is 14 months and has not been reached for the multicentre study. At last follow-up, 6 of 12 
patients in the single institution study were alive with a median follow-up time of 28 months (range 
25 to 29). In the multicentre study 27 of 40 patients were alive with a median follow-up time of 16 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
months (range 9 to 25). Kaplan-Meier estimates of 18-month survival for each study are shown 
below. 
Cytogenetic confirmation of conversion to a normal genotype and reverse transcriptase - polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) detection of PML/RARα conversion to normal are shown in table 5 below. 
Cytogenetics after arsenic trioxide therapy 
Table 5 
Conventional 
Cytogenetics 
[t(15;17)] 
Absent 
Present 
Not evaluable 
RT-PCR for PML/ 
RARα 
Negative 
Positive 
Not evaluable 
Single centre pilot trial 
N with CR = 11 
Multicentre trial 
N with CR = 34 
8 (73%) 
1 (9%)  
2 (18%) 
8 (73%) 
3 (27%) 
0 
31 (91%) 
0% 
3 (9%) 
27 (79%) 
4 (12%) 
3 (9%) 
Responses were seen across all age groups tested, ranging from 6 to 75 years. The response rate was 
similar for both genders. There is no experience on the effect of arsenic trioxide on the variant APL 
containing the t(11;17) and t(5;17) chromosomal translocations. 
Paediatric population 
The experience in children is limited. Of 7 patients under 18 years of age (range 5 to 16 years) treated 
with arsenic trioxide at the recommended dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day, 5 patients achieved a complete 
response (see section 4.2). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The inorganic, lyophilized form of arsenic trioxide, when placed into solution, immediately forms the 
hydrolysis product arsenious acid (AsIII). AsIII is the pharmacologically active species of arsenic 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trioxide. 
Distribution 
III is large (>400 L) indicating significant distribution into the 
The volume of distribution (Vd) for As
tissues  with  negligible  protein  binding.  Vd  is  also  weight  dependent,  increasing  with  increasing 
body weight. Total arsenic accumulates mainly in the liver, kidney, and heart and, to a lesser extent, 
in the lung, hair, and nails. 
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of arsenic trioxide involves oxidation of arsenious acid (AsIII), the active species of 
arsenic trioxide, to arsenic acid (AsV), as well as oxidative methylation to monomethylarsonic acid 
(MMAV) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAV) by methyltransferases, primarily in the liver. The 
pentavalent metabolites, MMAV and DMAV, are slow to appear in plasma (approximately 10-24 
hours after first administration of arsenic trioxide), but due to their longer half-life, accumulate more 
upon multiple dosing than does AsIII. The extent of accumulation of these metabolites is dependent 
on the dosing regimen. Approximate accumulation ranged from 1.4- to 8-fold following multiple as 
compared to single dose administration. AsV  is present in plasma only at relatively low levels. 
In vitro enzymatic studies with human liver microsomes revealed that arsenic trioxide has no 
inhibitory activity on substrates of the major cytochrome P450 enzymes such as 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 
2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4/5, 4A9/11. Substances that are substrates for these P450 enzymes are not 
expected to interact with arsenic trioxide. 
Elimination 
Approximately 15% of the administered arsenic trioxide dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged 
AsIII. The methylated metabolites of AsIII (MMAV, DMAV) are primarily excreted in the urine. The 
plasma concentration of AsIII declines from peak plasma concentration in a biphasic manner with a 
mean terminal elimination half-life of 10 to 14 hours. The total clearance of AsIII over the single-
dose range of 7-32 mg (administered as 0.15 mg/kg) is 49 L/h and the renal clearance is 9 L/h. 
Clearance is not dependent on the weight of the subject or the dose administered over the dose range 
studied. The mean estimated terminal elimination half-lives of the metabolites MMAV and DMAV 
are 32 hours and 70 hours, respectively. 
Renal impairment 
Plasma  clearance  of  AsIII  was  not  altered  in  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment  (creatinine 
clearance of 50-80 mL/min) or moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30-49 mL/min). 
The  plasma  clearance  of  AsIII  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  less 
than  30  mL/min)  was  40%  lower  when  compared  with  patients  with  normal  renal  function  (see 
section 4.4). 
Systemic exposure to MMAV and DMAV tended to be larger in patients with renal impairment; the 
clinical consequence of this is unknown but no increased toxicity was noted. 
Hepatic impairment 
Pharmacokinetic data from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma having mild to moderate hepatic 
impairment indicate that AsIII or AsV do not accumulate following twice-weekly infusions. No clear 
trend toward an increase in systemic exposure to AsIII, AsV, MMAV or DMAV was observed with 
decreasing level of hepatic function as assessed by dose-normalized (per mg dose) AUC. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
In the total single dose range of 7 to 32 mg (administered as 0.15 mg/kg), systemic exposure (AUC) 
appears  to  be  linear.  The  decline  from  peak  plasma  concentration  of  AsIII  occurs  in  a  biphasic 
manner  and  is  characterized  by  an  initial  rapid  distribution  phase  followed  by  a  slower  terminal 
elimination  phase.  After  administration  at  0.15  mg/kg  on  a  daily  (n=6)  or  twice-weekly  (n=3) 
regimen,  an  approximate  2-fold  accumulation  of  AsIII  was  observed  as  compared  to  a  single 
infusion. This accumulation was slightly more than expected based on single-dose results. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Limited reproductive toxicity studies of arsenic trioxide in animals indicate embryotoxicity and 
teratogenicity (neural tube defects, anophthalmia and microphthalmia) at administration of 1-10 
times the recommended clinical dose (mg/m2). Fertility studies have not been conducted with arsenic 
trioxide. Arsenic compounds induce chromosomal aberrations and morphological transformations of 
mammalian cells in vitro and in vivo. No formal carcinogenicity studies of arsenic trioxide have been 
performed. However, arsenic trioxide and other inorganic arsenic compounds are recognised as 
human carcinogens. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium hydroxide 
Hydrochloric acid, concentrated (for pH adjustment)  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of incompatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
2 years 
After first opening 
Once opened the product should be used immediately. 
After dilution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 168 hours at 25 °C and at 2°C to 
8°C. From a microbiological point of view, the product must be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
For storage conditions after dilution or first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I transparent colorless glass vial sealed with a silicon-oil free, elastomer type, grey rubber 
stopper made of bromobutyl and aluminium seal with a plastic flip off cap containing 10 ml of 
concentrate.  
Each pack contains 1, 5 or 10 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparation of Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Aseptic technique must be strictly observed throughout handling of Arsenic trioxide Accord since no 
preservative is present. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be diluted with 100 to 250 ml of glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection immediately after withdrawal from 
the vial. PVC free plastic bags should be used. It is for single use only, and any unused portions of 
each vial must be discarded properly. Do not save any unused portions for later administration. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must not be mixed with or concomitantly administered in the same 
intravenous line with other medicinal products. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be administered intravenously over 1-2 hours. The infusion duration 
may be extended up to 4 hours if vasomotor reactions are observed. A central venous catheter is not 
required. 
The diluted solution must be clear and colourless. All parenteral solutions must be inspected visually 
for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use the preparation if foreign 
particulate matter is present. 
Procedure for proper disposal 
Any unused medicinal product, any items that come into contact with the product or waste material 
must be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona S/N,  
Edifici Est, 6a planta,  
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1398/001 (pack of 1 vial) 
EU/1/19/1398/002 (pack of 5 vials) 
EU/1/19/1398/003 (pack of 10 vials)  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14th November 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
 MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Lutomierska 50 
95-200 Pabianice 
POLAND 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP)  
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted:  
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Arsenic trioxide Accord 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
arsenic trioxide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml contains 1 mg of arsenic trioxide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium hydroxide 
Hydrochloric acid, concentrated (for pH adjustment)  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial of 10 ml (10 mg/10 ml) 
5 vials of 10 ml (10 mg/10 ml) 
10 vials of 10 ml (10 mg/10 ml) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. Must be diluted before use.  
Single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona S/N,  
Edifici Est, 6a planta,  
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1398/001 (pack of 1 vial) 
EU/1/19/1398/002 (pack of 5 vials) 
EU/1/19/1398/003 (pack of 10 vials)  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Arsenic trioxide Accord 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
arsenic trioxide 
IV use after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
10 mg/10 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
Cytotoxic 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Arsenic trioxide Accord 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
arsenic trioxide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have further questions, please ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes 
any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Arsenic trioxide Accord is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Arsenic trioxide Accord 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Arsenic trioxide Accord is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Arsenic trioxide Accord is and what it is used for 
Arsenic trioxide Accord is used in adult patients with newly diagnosed low-to-intermediate risk acute 
promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), and in adult patients, whose disease has not responded to other 
therapies. APL is a unique type of myeloid leukaemia, a disease in which abnormal white blood cells 
and abnormal bleeding and bruising occur. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be given under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
treatment of acute leukaemias. 
You must not receive 
If you are allergic to arsenic trioxide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
Warnings and precautions 
You must talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Arsenic trioxide Accord, if 
-  you have impaired kidney function. 
-  you have any liver problems. 
Your doctor will take the following precautions: 
-  Tests will be performed to check the amount of potassium, magnesium, calcium and creatinine 
in your blood before your first dose of Arsenic trioxide Accord. 
-  You should have an electrical recording of the heart (electrocardiogram ECG) performed before 
your first dose. 
-  Blood tests (potassium, calcium, magnesium and liver function) should be repeated during your 
treatment with   Arsenic trioxide Accord. 
- 
- 
In addition, you will receive electrocardiograms twice weekly. 
If you are at risk for a certain type of abnormal heart rhythm (e.g. torsade de pointes or QTc 
prolongation), your heart will be monitored continuously. 
-  Your  doctor  may  monitor your  health  during  and  after treatment,  since  arsenic trioxide, the 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active substance in Arsenic trioxide Accord, may cause other cancers. You should report any 
new and exceptional symptoms and circumstances whenever you see your doctor. 
- 
deficiency. 
Follow-up of your cognitive and mobility functions if you are at risk for vitamin B1 
Children and adolescents 
Arsenic trioxide Accord is not recommended in children and adolescents below 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
In particular tell your doctor 
- if you are taking any of various types of medicines which could cause a change in the rhythm of 
your heartbeat. These include: 
• 
some types of antiarrhythmics (medicines used to correct irregular heart beats, e.g. 
quinidine, amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide) 
•  medicines to treat psychosis (loss of contact with reality, e.g. thioridazine) 
•  medicines for depression (e.g. amitriptyline) 
• 
some types of medicines to treat bacterial infections (e.g. erythromycin and sparfloxacin) 
some medicines to treat allergies such as hay fever, called antihistamines (e.g. terfenadine 
and astemizole) 
any medicines that cause a decrease in magnesium or potassium in your blood (e.g. 
amphotericin B) 
cisapride (a medicine used to relieve certain stomach problems). 
• 
• 
• 
The effect of these medicines on your heartbeat can be made worse by Arsenic trioxide Accord. 
You must be sure to tell your doctor about all medicines you are taking. 
- if you are taking or have recently taken any medicine which may affect your liver. If you are 
not sure, show the bottle or pack to your doctor. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord with food and drink 
There are no restrictions on your food or drink while you are receiving Arsenic trioxide Accord. 
Pregnancy 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine.  
Arsenic trioxide Accord may cause harm to the foetus when used by pregnant women. 
If you are able to become pregnant, you must use effective birth control during treatment with Arsenic 
trioxide Accord and for 6 months following completion of treatment. 
If you are pregnant or you become pregnant during the treatment with Arsenic trioxide Accord, you 
must ask your doctor for advice. 
Men  should  also  use  effective  contraception  and  be  advised  to  not  father  a  child  while  receiving 
Arsenic trioxide Accord and for 3 months following completion of treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. The arsenic in Arsenic trioxide 
Accord passes into breast milk. 
Because Arsenic trioxide Accord can harm nursing infants, do not breast-feed while on and until two 
weeks after the last dose of Arsenic trioxide Accord. 
Driving and using machines 
Arsenic trioxide Accord is expected to have no or negligible influence on your ability to drive and 
use  machines.  If  you  experience  discomfort  or  if  you  feel  unwell  after  a  Arsenic  trioxide  Accord 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
injection, you should wait until the symptoms go away before driving or using machines. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose. This means that the medicine is 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
3. 
How Arsenic trioxide Accord is given 
Duration and frequency of treatment 
Patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukaemia 
Your doctor will give you Arsenic trioxide Accord once every day as an infusion. In your first 
treatment cycle, you may be treated every day up to 60 days at most or until your doctor determines 
that your disease is better. If your disease responds to Arsenic trioxide Accord, you will be given 4 
additional treatment cycles. Each  cycle consists of 20 doses given 5 days per week (followed by 2 
days interruption) for 4 weeks followed by 4 weeks interruption. Your doctor will decide exactly 
how long you must continue on therapy with Arsenic trioxide Accord. 
Patients with acute promyelocytic leukaemia, whose disease has not responded to other therapies 
Your doctor will give you Arsenic trioxide Accord once every day as an infusion. In your first 
treatment cycle, you may be treated every day up to 50 days at most or until your doctor determines 
that your disease is better. If your disease responds to Arsenic trioxide Accord, you will be given a 
second treatment cycle of 25 doses given 5 days per week (followed by 2 days interruption) for 5 
weeks. Your doctor will decide exactly how long you must continue on therapy with Arsenic trioxide 
Accord. 
Method and route of administration 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be diluted with a solution containing glucose or a solution containing 
sodium chloride. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord is normally given by a doctor or a nurse. It is given as a drip (infusion) into a 
vein over 1-2 hours, but the infusion may last longer if side effects like flushing and dizziness occur. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must not be mixed with, or infused through the same tube with other 
medicines. 
If your doctor or nurse gives you more Arsenic trioxide Accord than he/she should 
You may experience convulsions, muscle weakness and confusion. If this happens, treatment with 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be stopped immediately and your doctor will treat the arsenic overdose. 
If you have any further question on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you notice the following side effects, as these may be 
signs of a severe condition called “differentiation syndrome”, which might be fatal: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
difficulty in breathing 
coughing 
chest pain 
fever 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you notice one or more of the following side effects, as 
these may be signs of allergic reaction: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
difficulty in breathing 
fever 
sudden weight gain 
water retention 
fainting 
palpitations (strong heartbeat you can feel in your chest) 
While on treatment with Arsenic trioxide Accord, you may experience some of the following 
reactions: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
fatigue (weariness), pain, fever, headache 
- 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea 
- 
dizziness, muscle pain, numbness or tingling 
- 
rash or itching, increased blood sugar, oedema (swelling due to excess fluid) 
- 
shortness of breath, fast heart beat, abnormal ECG heart tracing 
- 
reduced potassium or magnesium in the blood, liver function tests abnormal including 
- 
presence of excess bilirubin or gamma-glutamyltransferase in the blood 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
reduction in blood cell counts (platelets, red and/or white blood cells), increased white 
blood cells 
chills, increased weight 
a fever due to an infection and low levels of white blood cells, herpes zoster  infection 
chest pain, bleeding in the lung, hypoxia (low oxygen level), collection of fluid around the 
heart  
fit, joint or bone pain, inflammation of the blood vessels 
increased sodium or magnesium, ketones in the blood and urine (ketoacidosis), renal 
function tests abnormal, kidney failure 
stomach (abdominal) ache 
redness of the skin, swollen face, blurred vision 
or the lung, low blood pressure, abnormal heart rhythm 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
lung infection, infection in the blood 
inflammation of the lungs which causes chest pain and breathlessness, cardiac failure 
dehydration, confusion 
Cerebral disease (Encephalopathy, Wernicke encephalopathy) with various manifestations 
including difficulties to use arms and legs, speech disorders and confusion 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and the carton. This 
medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
After first opening: Once opened the product should be used immediately. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shelf life after dilution: Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 168 hours at 
25 °C and at 2°C to 8°C. From a microbiological point of view, the product must be used immediately. 
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the 
user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
This medicine must not be used if you notice foreign particulate matter or if the solution is 
discoloured. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Arsenic trioxide Accord contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is arsenic trioxide  One mL of concentrate contains 1 mg arsenic trioxide. 
One vial contains 10 mg of arsenic trioxide. 
The other ingredients are sodium hydroxide, concentrated hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment)  
and water for injections. See section 2, “Arsenic trioxide Accord contains sodium”. 
What Arsenic trioxide Accord  looks like and contents of the pack 
Arsenic trioxide Accord is a concentrate for solution for infusion. Arsenic trioxide Accord is supplied 
in glass vials as a concentrated, sterile, clear, colourless, aqueous solution . 
Each carton contains 1, 5 or 10 vials.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona S/N,  
Edifici Est, 6a planta,  
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,  
95-200 Pabianice, 
Poland  
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE MUST BE STRICTLY OBSERVED THROUGHOUT HANDLING OF 
ARSENIC TRIOXIDE ACCORD SINCE NO PRESERVATIVE IS PRESENT. 
Dilution of Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be diluted before administration. PVC-free plastic bags should be used. 
Personnel should be trained to handle and dilute arsenic trioxide and should wear appropriate 
protective clothing.  
Dilution: Carefully insert the needle of a syringe into the vial through the rubber stopper and draw up 
all of the content. Arsenic trioxide Accord must then be diluted immediately with 100 to 250 ml of 
glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection.  
Unused portions of each vial must be discarded properly. Do not save any unused portions for later 
administration. 
Use of Arsenic trioxide Accord 
For single use only. Arsenic trioxide Accord must not be mixed with or concomitantly administered in 
the same intravenous line with other medicinal products. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord must be administered intravenously over 1-2 hours. The infusion duration 
may be extended up to 4 hours if vasomotor reactions are observed. A central venous catheter is not 
required. 
The diluted solution must be clear and colourless. All parenteral solutions must be inspected visually 
for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not use the preparation if foreign 
particulate matter is present. 
After dilution in intravenous solutions, Arsenic trioxide Accord is chemically and physically stable 
for 168 hours at 25°C and at refrigerated (2-8°C) temperatures. From a microbiological point of 
view, the product must be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and 
conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 
hours at 2- 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
Procedure for proper disposal 
Any unused product, any items that come into contact with the product, and waste material must be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
