PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for Arsenic trioxide medac (arsenic trioxide) 
This is a  summary of the risk management  plan  (RMP)  for Arsenic trioxide medac. The RMP 
details  important  risks  of  Arsenic  trioxide  medac,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how 
more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Arsenic  trioxide  medac’s  risks  and  uncertainties 
(missing information).  
Arsenic  trioxide  medac’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Arsenic  trioxide 
medac should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Arsenic trioxide medac should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment  report  of  the evaluation  and its  plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Arsenic 
trioxide medac’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Arsenic trioxide medac  is authorised for  treatment of acute promyelocytic leukaemia  (APL)  in 
adult  patients  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It  contains  arsenic  trioxide  as  the  active 
substance and it is given intravenously. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Arsenic  trioxide  medac’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Arsenic trioxide medac’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, 
webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/arsenic-trioxide-medac. 
medicine’s 
under 
the 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or  further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Arsenic trioxide medac, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Arsenic trioxide medac’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Arsenic  trioxide  medac  is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Arsenic trioxide medac are risks that need special risk management activities 
to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Arsenic  trioxide  medac. 
Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible 
based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
-  None 
Important potential risks 
-  Carcinogenicity 
Missing information 
-  Long-term safety 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Carcinogenicity 
Risk minimisation measures 
Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
SmPC section 4.4: Monitoring for the development of second primary 
malignancies is recommended. 
Prescription only 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered under the supervision of a physician 
who is experienced in the management of acute leukaemias. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Prescription only 
Arsenic trioxide must be administered under the supervision of a physician 
who is experienced in the management of acute leukaemias. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Arsenic trioxide medac. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Arsenic trioxide medac. 
