Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Arsenic  Trioxide  Mylan 
(Arsenic Trioxide) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Arsenic  Trioxide  Mylan.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Arsenic Trioxide Mylan, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Arsenic Trioxide Mylan 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Arsenic  Trioxide  Mylan's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Arsenic Trioxide Mylan should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Arsenic Trioxide Mylan should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Arsenic Trioxide 
Mylan's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
ARSENIC TRIOXIDE MYLAN is authorised for induction of remission, and consolidation in adult patients 
with:  
•  Newly diagnosed low-to-intermediate risk acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) (white blood 
cell count, ≤ 10 x 103/μl) in combination with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) 
•  Relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) (Previous treatment should have 
included a retinoid and chemotherapy) 
• 
characterised by the presence of the t(15;17) translocation and/or the presence of the Pro-
Myelocytic 
• 
Leukaemia/Retinoic-Acid-Receptor-alpha (PML/RAR-alpha) gene. 
The response rate of other acute myelogenous leukaemia subtypes to arsenic trioxide has not been 
examined.  
It contains arsenic trioxide as the active substance, and it is given intravenously. 
Further information about the evaluation of Arsenic Trioxide Mylan’s benefits can be found in Arsenic 
Trioxide Mylan’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Arsenic  Trioxide  Mylan,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Arsenic Trioxide Mylan's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Arsenic Trioxide Mylan is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Arsenic  Trioxide  Mylan  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Arsenic Trioxide Mylan. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
• Carcinogenicity  
Missing information 
• Long-term safety 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Arsenic 
Trioxide Mylan. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Arsenic Trioxide Mylan. 
 
