EMA/520484/2019 
EMEA/H/C/005175 
Arsenic trioxide Accord (arsenic trioxide) 
An overview of Arsenic trioxide Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Arsenic trioxide Accord and what is it used for? 
Arsenic trioxide Accord is used to treat adults (aged 18 years or over) with acute promyelocytic 
leukaemia (APL), a rare form of leukaemia (cancer of the white blood cells) caused by a genetic 
‘translocation’ (when there is a swap of genes between two chromosomes). The translocation affects 
the way the white blood cells grow, and as a result they lack the ability to use retinoic acid (vitamin A). 
Patients with APL are normally treated with retinoids (substances derived from vitamin A).  
Arsenic trioxide Accord is used in:  
• 
• 
Patients with newly diagnosed low or intermediate risk APL where it is used together with the 
medicine all-trans-retinoic acid.  
Patients with APL whose disease has not responded to previous treatment with a retinoid and 
cancer medicines, or when their disease has come back after this type of treatment. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord contains the active substance arsenic trioxide and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Arsenic trioxide Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as 
a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Trisenox. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Arsenic trioxide Accord used? 
Arsenic trioxide Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and its use should be supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the management of patients with acute leukaemias. It is given as an 
infusion (drip) into a vein. The infusion should last 1 to 2 hours, but it may need to be given for longer 
if the patient has certain side effects.  
The recommended dose of Arsenic trioxide Accord depends on the patient’s weight. Treatment is 
divided into 2 phases: induction and consolidation.  
During the induction phase, Arsenic trioxide Accord is given every day until there are signs that the 
treatment is working (when the bone marrow does not contain any leukaemia cells). If this does not 
happen by day 50 (for previously treated patients) or by day 60 (for newly diagnosed patients), the 
treatment should be stopped. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
During the consolidation phase, Arsenic trioxide Accord is given on 5 days each week but the length of 
breaks between courses and how long it is given for depends on whether patients have received 
previous treatment or not.  
For more information about using Arsenic trioxide Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Arsenic trioxide Accord work? 
The active substance in the medicine, arsenic trioxide, has been used in medicines for many years, 
including for the treatment of leukaemia. The way it works in this disease is not completely 
understood. It is thought to prevent the production of DNA, which is necessary for leukaemia cells to 
grow. 
How has Arsenic trioxide Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Trisenox, and do not need to be repeated for Arsenic trioxide 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Arsenic trioxide Accord. There 
was no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Arsenic trioxide Accord is absorbed 
similarly to the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This 
is because Arsenic trioxide Accord is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered 
straight into the bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Arsenic trioxide Accord? 
Because Arsenic trioxide Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the 
same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Arsenic trioxide Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Arsenic trioxide 
Accord has been shown to be comparable to Trisenox. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Trisenox, the benefits of Arsenic trioxide Accord outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Arsenic trioxide Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Arsenic trioxide Accord have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Arsenic trioxide Accord are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Arsenic trioxide Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Arsenic trioxide Accord 
Arsenic trioxide Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 November 
2019. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord (arsenic trioxide)  
EMA/520484/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Further information on Arsenic trioxide Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/arsenic-trioxide-accord. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2019. 
Arsenic trioxide Accord (arsenic trioxide)  
EMA/520484/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
