22 November 2021  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
EMADOC-1700519818-734311 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Artesunate Amivas (artesunate) 
Treatment of malaria 
EU/3/20/2251 
Sponsor: Amivas Ireland Limited     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 8 
4. COMP list of issues ................................................................................ 11 
5. COMP position adopted on 7 October 2021 ............................................ 12 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Other name(s) 
Artesunate 
Artesunate 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Artesunate 
Applicant claims that product is not the same as 
https://adisinsight.springer.com/drugs/800053728  
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Artesunate Amivas 
Treatment of malaria  
Amivas Ireland Limited   
Durands Court 7 
Parnell Street 
Waterford 
X91 P381 
Ireland  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Post-designation procedural history 
Yes Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH  
22 January 2020 
28 February 2020 
EU/3/20/2251 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Yes Pharmaceutical Development Services 
GmbH to Amivas Ireland Limited – EC decision of 4 
September 2020 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Jayne Crowe / Johann Lodewijk Hillege 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Amivas Ireland Limited   
14 September 2020 
1 October 2020 
EMA/H/C/0005550 
Artesunate Amivas 
Therapeutic indication 
Artesunate Amivas is indicated for the initial treatment of 
severe malaria in adults and children (see sections 4.2 
and 5.1). Consideration should be given to official 
guidance on the appropriate use of antimalarial agents. 
Further information on Artesunate Amivas can be found 
in the European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/
CHMP opinion 
ArtesunateAmivas  
16 September 2021 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Cécile Dop / Elisabeth Johanne Rook 
Sponsor’s report submission 
26 April 2021 
COMP discussion  
COMP opinion  
5-7 October 2021 
7 October 2021 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2020 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
“The sponsor YES Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH submitted on 10 October 2019 an 
application for designation as an orphan medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for a 
medicinal product containing artesunate for treatment of malaria (hereinafter referred to as “the 
condition”). The application was submitted on the basis of Article 3(1)(a) first paragraph of Regulation 
(EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products. 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing artesunate was 
considered justified based on clinical data showing efficacy in severe malaria; 
• 
the condition is life-threatening due to the possibility of severe systemic complications such as 
cerebral malaria, cardiogenic shock, acute renal failure, coagulation disorders and pulmonary 
oedema. The overall mortality rate of imported Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Europe is 0.4%; 
• 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 0.12 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made.  
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, 
the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal product 
containing artesunate will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. This appears 
justified by the improved clinical efficacy of artesunate administered intravenously as monotherapy in 
the treatment of severe malaria as compared to quinine, the only currently authorized product for 
intravenous use in the EU. The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant 
advantage. 
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products is fulfilled. 
The COMP concludes that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) 
No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products are fulfilled. The COMP therefore recommends the 
designation of this medicinal product, containing artesunate as an orphan medicinal product for the 
orphan condition: treatment of malaria.” 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Condition 
Malaria is caused by protozoan pathogens of the Plasmodium spp.; Plasmodium falciparum and 
Plasmodium vivax, for which humans are the exclusive mammalian hosts. These are the most common 
species and are responsible for the largest public health burden. Malaria is transmitted by the bite of 
Plasmodium spp.-infected female mosquitoes of the Anopheles genus. During a blood meal, infected 
mosquitoes inject — along with their anticoagulating saliva — sporozoites, which are the infective, 
motile stage of Plasmodium spp. Sporozoites journey through the skin to the lymphatics and into 
hepatocytes in the liver. Inside the hepatocyte, a single sporozoite can generate tens of thousands of 
merozoites (the stage that results from multiple asexual fissions (schizogony) of a sporozoite within 
the body of the host), which are released into the bloodstream where they enter red blood cells to 
replicate (erythrocytic schizogony). A fraction of merozoites (those that are sexually committed) also 
differentiate and mature into male and female gametocytes, which is the stage that infects the 
mosquito host when it takes a blood meal. The onset of clinical symptoms generally occurs 7–10 days 
after the initial mosquito bite. 
•  Asymptomatic malaria: can be caused by all Plasmodium spp.; the patient has circulating parasites 
but no symptoms.  
•  Uncomplicated malaria: can be caused by all Plasmodium spp. Symptoms are nonspecific and can 
include fever, moderate-to-severe shaking chills, profuse sweating, headache, nausea, vomiting, 
diarrhea and anaemia, with no clinical or laboratory findings of severe organ dysfunction.  
•  Severe (complicated) malaria: usually caused by infection with Plasmodium falciparum, although 
less frequently it can also be caused by Plasmodium vivax or Plasmodium knowlesi. Complications 
include severe anaemia and end-organ damage, including coma (cerebral malaria), pulmonary 
complications (for example, oedema and hyperpnoea syndrome), and hypoglycaemia or acute 
kidney injury. Severe malaria is often associated with hyperparasitaemia and is associated with 
increased mortality.  
The approved therapeutic indication “Artesunate Amivas is indicated for the initial treatment of severe 
malaria in adults and children (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). Consideration should be given to official 
guidance on the appropriate use of antimalarial agents.” Falls within the scope of the designated 
orphan condition “treatment of malaria”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by a positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP, see 
EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There has been no change in the chronically debilitating and life-threatening nature of the condition.  
Typical initial symptoms are low-grade fever, shaking chills, muscle aches and, in children, digestive 
symptoms. These symptoms can present suddenly (paroxysms), and then progress to drenching 
sweats, high fever and exhaustion. Malaria paroxysmal symptoms manifest after the haemolysis of 
Plasmodium spp.-invaded red blood cells.  
Severe malaria is often fatal and presents with severe anaemia and various manifestations of multi-
organ damage, which can include cerebral malaria. Severe malaria complications are due to 
microvascular obstruction caused by the presence of red blood cell stage parasites in capillaries. By 
this stage of the disease, the case fatality in people receiving treatment is typically 10–20%. However, 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
if left untreated, severe malaria is fatal in the majority of cases (WHO, 2010). In adults, severe malaria 
caused by P. falciparum is characterized by multiorgan damage, whereas children with severe malaria 
usually present with prostration, respiratory distress, severe anaemia, and/or cerebral malaria. 
For the EU patient of particular concern are the immunological naivety to the parasite and the potential 
diagnostic delay, which both may enhance the risk of a severe course and fatal outcome. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has provided data from “The European Surveillance System (TESSy)”. This system 
collects, analyses, and disseminates data on communicable diseases, and has annual epidemiological 
data on malaria for 30 EU/EEA countries published by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and 
Control (ECDC).  Annual surveillance reports are available for 2013-2017 which indicate that there 
were 8,401 cases of malaria reported in the EU/EEA in 2017.  It can be concluded that the overall 
incidence of malaria in the EU in 2017 was 1.2 cases per 100,000.   
Table 1: Number of malaria cases and rates by country for 2016 to 2018, EU/EEA (European Centre for 
Disease Prevention and Control 2020) 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A literature search was also conducted using the PubMed database (US National Library of Medicine 
and National Institutes of Health; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed) using the search parameters 
“malaria” and “epidemiology” and “Europe” or “incidence” or “prevalence”. The search resulted in 173 
publication dated within the last five years (19 March 2016 to 19 March 2021). The date range was 
selected to yield the most relevant epidemiological data. The titles and abstracts were reviewed to 
identify publications providing relevant data on the epidemiology of malaria in the EU. Of the 173 
results, there were no new epidemiological studies designed for calculating the incidence of malaria in 
Europe. 
The final proposed number by the sponsor is 0.12 in 10,000 which was endorsed by the COMP.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Chloroquine, amodiaquine, primaquine sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, mefloquine, atovaquone-proguanil, 
quinine, doxycycline, and artemisinin derivatives are authorised in Member States for the treatment or 
prevention of malaria. Eurartesim (piperaquine tetraphosphate / artenimol) has a centralised 
marketing authorisation.  
The WHO provides more detailed guidelines in the management and treatment of severe malaria. 
Based on high-quality evidence, a strong recommendation of intravenous or intramuscular artesunate 
is prescribed by the WHO for at least 24 hours until oral medication can be tolerated, at which point 3 
days of artemisinin-based combination therapy (add a single dose of primaquine in areas of low 
transmission) is recommended to complete the treatment regimen. 
Table 2: Authorized treatments for the treatment or prophylaxis of malaria in the EU. 
Active substance  
Artemether/ 
lumefantrine 
(Riamet) 
Atovaquone/proguanil 
hydrochloride 
(Various generic 
products, e.g. 
Malarone) 
Type of 
authorisation 
MR procedure 
(SE/H/1778/001) 
Various MR 
procedure 
Authorized indication 
Riamet is indicated for the treatment of acute 
uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in 
adults, children and infants of 5 kg and above. 
Atovaquone/Proguanil Hydrochloride is a fixed dose 
combination of atovaquone and proguanil 
hydrochloride which acts as a blood schizonticide and 
also has activity against hepatic schizonts of 
Plasmodium falciparum. 
It is indicated for:  
• 
Prophylaxis of Plasmodium falciparum malaria 
in adults and in children weighing more than 
40 kg. 
•  Treatment of acute, uncomplicated 
Plasmodium falciparum malaria in adults and 
in children weighing 11 kg or more. 
[…] 
Chloroquine 
(phosphate)* 
(Various products) 
Dapsone 
(Various generic 
products) 
Dihydroartemisinin, 
piperaquine 
tetraphosphate 
(Eurartesim) 
Various national 
authorisations 
Prophylaxis, suppression and treatment of malaria. 
[…] 
Various national 
authorisations 
Prophylaxis of malaria in combination with 
pyrimethamine 
Centralized 
procedure 
(EU/1/11/716) 
Eurartesim is indicated for the treatment of 
uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in 
adults, adolescents, children and infants 6 months 
and over and weighing 5 kg or more. 
Doxycycline hyclate 
(Various products) 
Various national 
authorisations 
Doxycycline capsules are used in the treatment of a 
variety of infections caused by susceptible strains of 
Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and 
certain other micro-organisms. 
Chloroquine-resistant falciparum malaria […] 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance  
Type of 
authorisation 
Authorized indication 
Mefloquine 
(e.g. Lariam) 
Various national 
authorisations 
Doxycycline is indicated for prophylaxis in the 
following conditions: […] malaria 
Lariam is especially indicated for therapy of P. 
falciparum malaria in which the pathogen has become 
resistant to other antimalarial agents. 
Following treatment of P. vivax malaria with Lariam, 
relapse prophylaxis with an 8- amino-quinoline 
derivative, for example primaquine, should be 
considered in order to eliminate parasites in the 
hepatic phase. [...]. 
Proguanil 
hydrochloride 
(e.g. Paludrine)* 
Quinine sulfate 
(Various generic 
products) 
Various national 
authorisations 
Paludrine is an effective antimalarial agent. It is 
recommended for the prevention and suppression of 
malaria. 
Various national 
authorisations 
Treatment of falciparum (malignant tertian) malaria. 
Quinine hydrochloride 
(Various generic 
products 
National 
authorisations 
(e.g. Quinine 
Renaudin) 
Treatment of severe malaria (“accès pernicieux”) 
* There are also combination travel packs containing proguanil and chloroquine tablets (e.g. Savarine in France) 
Of the above product only, the following are targeting the same patient population as Artesunate 
Amivas and therefore considered satisfactory methods for “initial treatment of severe malaria caused 
by Plasmodium falciparum”: 
•  Quinine sulfate. 
•  Quinine hydrochloride. 
Significant benefit 
Currently IV Quinine (SURQUINA) is only licenced in France to treat patients with severe life-
threatening forms of malaria.  
No scientific advice or protocol assistance on the product development was sought. 
IV artesunate has been shown to be clinically superior to quinine in two published pivotal efficacy 
studies (AQUAMAT and SEAQUAMAT) in the treatment of severe or complicated malaria, for which IV 
treatment is essential until oral therapy can be tolerated. Further, IV AS is the first-line recommended 
product in the treatment of severe or complicated malaria by the WHO. 
SEAQUAMAT  
This randomized study compared the efficacy of parenteral AS (IV AS) to parenteral quinine (IV 
quinine) in Asian adults using the Guilin Pharmaceuticals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. IV AS formulation. 
Patients were randomised to receive IV AS 2.4 mg/kg on admission, then at 12 h, 24 h, and thereafter 
once daily until oral medication could be taken reliably: oral artesunate 2 mg/kg per day to complete a 
total course (including parenteral treatment) of 7 days, providing a total cumulative dose of 17–18 
mg/kg, or quinine dihydrochloride in a 20 mg/kg loading dose was infused over 4h, followed by 10 
mg/kg infused three times a day until starting oral therapy, which consisted of oral quinin 10 mg/kg 
every 8 h to provide a total quinin course of 7 days.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Parenteral artesunate was shown to reduce mortality in patients with severe malaria by over a third 
compared with parenteral quinine. Mortality in artesunate recipients was 15% (107 of 730) compared 
with 22% (164 of 731) in quinine recipients; an absolute reduction of 34.7% (p=0.0002). Although 
there were considerable differences in the intensive-care support available between the trial sites, this 
large reduction in mortality was consistent across countries and in all prospectively defined subgroups.  
Retrospectively, SEAQUAMAT patients were classified as “severe” or “non-severe” at entrance. For the 
“severe” malaria patients, mortality was 20% in the AS group vs. 28% in the quinine group (p = 
0.003). For all SEAQUAMAT patients, the benefits of artesunate were most evident after 48 hrs of 
study entrance.  
Figure 1.  Survival Curve of In-Hospital Mortality – SEAQUAMAT (Dondorp 2005) 
Subjects either died in the hospital or were discharged, so all deaths included. Survival time of all discharged 
subjects was set to 35 days. 
AQUAMAT  
This multi-centre, open-label trial conducted in African children with severe malaria randomised 5,306 
eligible patients with either parenteral artesunate (Guilin formulation) or parenteral quinine. 
Artesunate was given in a dose of 2.4 mg/kg on admission, 12 h, 24, h, and thereafter once daily, 
either as a bolus into an indwelling IV cannula, or administered by deep IM injection, until oral 
medication could be taken reliably. Quinine dihydrochloride was given in a 20 mg salt per kg loading 
dose infused over 4 h (in 5-10 mL/kg of 5% dextrose), followed by a 10 mg salt per kg infusion over 
2h to 8h three times daily until starting oral therapy. For IM treatment, the doses were the same as for 
IV treatment; quinine was diluted in normal saline to a concentration of 60 mg/mL and injected into 
the anterior thigh. The loading dose was given as a split dose into each thigh. When the patient was 
able to take tablets, but after a minimum of 24 h of parenteral treatment, oral artemether-
lumefantrine in a full standard dose (1.5/9 mg/kg twice daily for 3 days with milk or fat) was given to 
complete the treatment.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results show parenteral artesunate substantially reduces the overall mortality of African children 
diagnosed with severe malaria. Two hundred thirty (8.5%) patients assigned to artesunate treatment 
died compared with 297 (10.9%) assigned to quinine treatment (OR stratified for study site 0.75, 95% 
CI 0.63–0.90; relative reduction 22.5%, 95% CI 8.1–36.9; p=0.0022). Incidence of neurological 
sequelae did not differ significantly between groups, but the development of coma (65/1832 (3.5%) 
with artesunate vs 91/1768 (5.1%) with quinine; p=0.02), convulsions (224/2712 (8.3%) vs. 
273/2713 (10.1%); p=0.02), and deterioration of the coma score (166/2712 (6.1%) vs. 208/2713 
(7.7%); p=0.02) were each significantly less frequent in artesunate recipients than in quinine 
recipients. 
Similar to SEAQUAMAT trial findings, the benefits of artesunate were more evident after the 1st day of 
treatment (2.7% for AS vs. 4.2% for quinine) than in the 1st day of treatment (5.8% for AS and 6.9% 
for quinine). 
Figure 2.  Kaplan-Meier Curves Comparing Survival in African Children with Severe P. falciparum 
Malaria Treated with Either Parenteral Artesunate or Quinine (AQUAMAT Trial; Dondorp 2010) 
The significant benefit of Artesunate Amivas has been established based on an improved efficacy as 
compared to the only other satisfactory method, intravenous quinine. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Not applicable. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  COMP position adopted on 7 October 2021 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
• 
the prevalence of malaria (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to remain 
below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 0.12 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the 
time of the review of the designation criteria; 
• 
the condition is life-threatening due to the possibility of severe systemic complications such as 
cerebral malaria, cardiogenic shock, acute renal failure, coagulation disorders and pulmonary 
oedema. The overall mortality rate of imported Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Europe can reach 
7% in the severe forms; 
• 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Artesunate Amivas may be of potential significant benefit still 
holds. When the product was used as induction therapy according to the therapeutic indication, a 
reduction in mortality due to severe Plasmodium falciparum malaria as compared to IV quinine was 
shown.   
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Artesunate Amivas (artesunate) 
for treatment of malaria (EU/3/20/2251) is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan 
Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000060998 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
