Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Artesunate 
Amivas, 110 mg, powder and solvent for solution 
for injection (artesunate) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Artesunate  Amivas,  110  mg,  powder  and 
solvent  for  solution  for  injection  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  Artesunate  Amivas).  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Artesunate Amivas, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Artesunate Amivas's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Artesunate Amivas's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Artesunate Amivas should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Artesunate Amivas should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Artesunate 
Amivas's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Artesunate Amivas is authorised for the initial treatment of severe malaria, in adults and children (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains artesunate as the active substance and it is given by intravenous 
route of administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Artesunate  Amivas’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Artesunate 
Amivas’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage (https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/artesunate-amivas). 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Artesunate Amivas, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Artesunate Amivas's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Artesunate Amivas are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Artesunate Amivas. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of 
the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of 
the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Reproductive toxicity (especially in the first trimester) 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Reproductive Toxicity (especially in the first trimester) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Early  embryotoxicity  has  been  seen  in  several  animal  species. 
However, there are only limited clinical data on IV artesunate use 
in the first-trimester of pregnancy. 
A recent study showed no evidence that the artemisinin-associated 
embryotoxicity  observed 
in 
cross-species  animal  models 
(embryolethality and congenital anomalies) was present in human 
pregnancies.  The  available  data  provide  no  evidence  of  an 
increased risk of miscarriage or stillbirth among pregnancies with a 
confirmed  first-trimester  artemisinin  treatment  compared  to 
pregnancies with quinine or no antimalarial treatment. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Women  taking  IV  artesunate,  especially  in  the  first  trimester  of 
pregnancy. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.6 and 5.3 of the SmPC and section 2 of the PIL. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
None. 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  beyond  the  Product 
Information: 
Pack  size:  Each  box  contains  2  vials  of  Artesunate  Amivas 
powder and 2 vials of phosphate buffer. Three boxes (6 vials) 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Reproductive Toxicity (especially in the first trimester) 
are enough for 3 doses of 2.4 mg/kg for a person up to 91.3 kg. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Intravenous Artesunate Pregnancy Registry 
activities 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Intravenous  Injection  Fertility  and  Early  Embryonic  Development 
Study of Artesunate in Sprague Dawley Rats. 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Artesunate Amivas. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Intravenous Artesunate Pregnancy Registry 
Purpose of the study: the purpose of this observational study is to fulfil FDA and EMA Post Marketing 
Requirements  The  study  will  be  a  single-arm  descriptive  international  study  collecting  data  in  women 
exposed to IV artesunate during pregnancy to assess risk of pregnancy and maternal complications and 
adverse effects on the foetus, neonate, and infant. Infant outcomes will be assessed through at least the 
first year of life. The study will collect information for 7 years. 
Intravenous  Injection  Fertility  and  Early  Embryonic  Development  Study  of  Artesunate  in 
Sprague Dawley Rats 
Purpose of the study: The purpose of this interventional, non-clinical study is to fulfil FDA and EMA Post 
Marketing Requirements. The study will test for the potential toxic effects/disturbances resulting from 
Artesunate  treatment  of  Sprague  Dawley  CD  (Crl:CD[SD])  female  rats  before  cohabitation,  through 
mating and to implantation. This study evaluates ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline Stages A and B of 
the reproductive process and should detect effects on the oestrous cycle, tubal transport, implantation, 
and development of preimplantation stages of the embryos of female rats. 
 
 
 
 
  
