ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each 20 mL vial contains 1 080 mg of pegcetacoplan. 
Each mL contains 54 mg of pegcetacoplan. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each mL contains 41 mg of sorbitol. 
Each vial contains 820 mg of sorbitol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless to slightly yellowish aqueous solution with pH 5.0. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
ASPAVELI is indicated in the treatment of adult patients with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
(PNH) who are anaemic after treatment with a C5 inhibitor for at least 3 months. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated under the supervision of a healthcare professional experienced in the 
management of patients with haematological disorders. Self-administration and home infusion should 
be considered for patients who have tolerated treatment well in experienced treatment centres. The 
decision of a possibility of self-administration and home infusions should be made after evaluation and 
recommendation from the treating physician. 
Posology 
Pegcetacoplan can be given by a healthcare professional, or administered by the patient or caregiver 
following proper instruction. 
Pegcetacoplan is administered twice weekly as a 1 080 mg subcutaneous infusion with a commercially 
available syringe system infusion pump that can deliver doses up to 20 mL. The twice weekly dose 
should be administered on Day 1 and Day 4 of each treatment week. 
PNH is a chronic disease and treatment with ASPAVELI is recommended to continue for the patient’s 
lifetime, unless the discontinuation of this medicinal product is clinically indicated (see section 4.4). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients switching to ASPAVELI from a C5 inhibitor 
For the first 4 weeks, pegcetacoplan is administered as twice weekly subcutaneous doses of 1 080 mg 
in addition to the patient’s current dose of C5 inhibitor treatment to minimise the risk of haemolysis 
with abrupt treatment discontinuation. After 4 weeks, the patient should discontinue C5 inhibitor 
before continuing on monotherapy with ASPAVELI. 
Dose adjustment for ASPAVELI 
The dosing regimen may be changed to 1 080 mg every third day (e.g., Day 1, Day 4, Day 7, Day 10, 
Day 13, and so forth) if a subject has a lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level greater than 2 x upper limit 
of normal. In the event of a dose increase, LDH should be monitored twice weekly for at least 4 weeks 
(see section 4.4). 
Missed dose of ASPAVELI 
If a dose of pegcetacoplan is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible, then the regular 
schedule should be resumed. 
Special populations 
Elderly (>65 years old) 
Although there were no apparent age-related differences observed in clinical studies, the number of 
patients aged 65 and over is not sufficient to determine whether they respond differently from younger 
patients. There is no evidence indicating any special precautions are required for treating an elderly 
population. 
Renal impairment 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics 
(PK) of pegcetacoplan; therefore, pegcetacoplan dose adjustment in patients with renal impairment is 
not necessary. There are no data available for the use of pegcetacoplan in patients with end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) requiring haemodialysis (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of pegcetacoplan have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment; 
however, no dose adjustment is recommended, as hepatic impairment is not expected to impact 
clearance of pegcetacoplan. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of ASPAVELI in children with PNH aged 0 to <18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available. 
This medicinal product should not be used in children <12 years of age, as non-clinical safety data are 
not available for this age group. 
Method of administration 
ASPAVELI should only be administered via subcutaneous administration using a commercially 
available syringe system infusion pump. This medicinal product can be self-administered. When 
self-administration is initiated, the patient will be instructed by a qualified healthcare professional in 
infusion techniques, the use of a syringe system infusion pump, the keeping of a treatment record, the 
recognition of possible adverse reactions, and measures to be taken in case these occur. 
ASPAVELI should be infused in the abdomen, thigh, or upper arms. Infusion sites should be at least 
7.5 cm apart from each other. The infusion sites should be rotated between administration. Infusion 
into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or hard should be avoided. Infusion into tattoos, scars, 
or stretch marks should be avoided. The typical infusion time is approximately 30 minutes (if using 
two sites) or approximately 60 minutes (if using one site). The infusion should be started promptly 
after drawing this medicinal product into the syringe. Administration should be completed within 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 hours after preparing the syringe. For instructions on the preparation and infusion of the medicinal 
product, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to pegcetacoplan or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pegcetacoplan therapy must not be initiated in patients: 
• 
• 
with unresolved infection caused by encapsulated bacteria including Neisseria meningitidis, 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae (see section 4.4). 
who are not currently vaccinated against Neisseria meningitidis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and 
Haemophilus influenzae unless they receive prophylactic treatment with appropriate antibiotics 
until 2 weeks after vaccination (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Serious infections caused by encapsulated bacteria 
The use of pegcetacoplan may predispose individuals to serious infections caused by encapsulated 
bacteria including Neisseria meningitidis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae. To 
reduce the risk of infection, all patients must be vaccinated against these bacteria according to 
applicable local guidelines at least 2 weeks prior to receiving ASPAVELI, unless the risk of delaying 
therapy outweighs the risk of developing an infection. 
Patients with known history of vaccination 
Before receiving treatment with ASPAVELI, in patients with a known history of vaccination, it should 
be ensured that patients have received vaccines against encapsulated bacteria including Streptococcus 
pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis types A, C, W, Y, and B, and Haemophilus influenzae Type B 
within 2 years prior to starting ASPAVELI. 
Patients without known history of vaccination 
For patients without known history of vaccination, the required vaccines should be administered at 
least 2 weeks prior to receiving the first dose of ASPAVELI. If immediate therapy is indicated, the 
required vaccines should be administered as soon as possible and the patient treated with appropriate 
antibiotics until 2 weeks after vaccination. 
Monitoring patients for serious infections 
Vaccination may not be sufficient to prevent serious infection. Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. All patients should be monitored for 
early signs of infections caused by encapsulated bacteria including Neisseria meningitidis, 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae, evaluated immediately if infection is 
suspected, and treated with appropriate antibiotics if necessary. Patients should be informed of these 
signs and symptoms, and steps taken to seek medical care immediately. Physicians must discuss the 
benefits and risks of ASPAVELI therapy with patients. 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction (including 
anaphylaxis) occurs, infusion with ASPAVELI must be discontinued immediately, and appropriate 
treatment instituted. 
Injection site reactions 
Injection site reactions have been reported with the use of subcutaneous ASPAVELI (see section 4.8). 
Patients should be trained appropriately in proper injection technique. 
PNH laboratory monitoring 
Patients with PNH receiving ASPAVELI should be monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of 
haemolysis, including measuring LDH levels, and may require dose adjustment within the 
recommended dosing schedule (see section 4.2). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on laboratory tests 
There may be interference between silica reagents in coagulation panels and pegcetacoplan that results 
in artificially prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT); therefore, the use of silica 
reagents in coagulation panels should be avoided. 
Treatment discontinuation for PNH 
If patients with PNH discontinue treatment with ASPAVELI, they should be closely monitored for 
signs and symptoms of serious intravascular haemolysis. Serious intravascular haemolysis is identified 
by elevated LDH levels along with sudden decrease in PNH clone size or haemoglobin, or 
reappearance of symptoms such as fatigue, haemoglobinuria, abdominal pain, dyspnoea, major 
adverse vascular event (including thrombosis), dysphagia, or erectile dysfunction. If discontinuation of 
this medicinal product is necessary, alternate therapy should be considered. If serious haemolysis 
occurs after discontinuation, consider the following procedures/treatments: blood transfusion (packed 
RBCs), exchange transfusion, anticoagulation, and corticosteroids. Patients should be closely 
monitored for at least 8 weeks from the last dose, representing more than 5 half-lives of this medicinal 
product, to allow for medicinal product washout (see section 5.2) to detect serious haemolysis and 
other reactions. In addition, slow weaning should be considered. 
Contraception in women of childbearing potential 
It is recommended that women of childbearing potential use effective contraception methods to 
prevent pregnancy during treatment with pegcetacoplan and for at least 8 weeks after the last dose of 
pegcetacoplan (see section 4.6). 
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) accumulation 
ASPAVELI is a PEGylated medicinal product. The potential long-term effects of PEG accumulation 
in the kidneys, the choroid plexus of the brain, and other organs are unknown (see section 5.3). 
Regular laboratory testing of renal function is recommended. 
Educational materials 
All physicians who intend to prescribe ASPAVELI must ensure they have received and are familiar 
with the physician educational material. Physicians must explain and discuss the benefits and risks of 
ASPAVELI therapy with the patient and provide them with the patient information pack and the 
patient card. The patient should be instructed to seek prompt medical care if they experience any sign 
or symptom of serious infection or hypersensitivity during therapy with ASPAVELI, especially if 
indicative of infection with encapsulated bacteria. 
Excipients with known effect 
Sorbitol content 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg contains 820 mg sorbitol in each vial. 
Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) should not take/be given this medicinal product. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say, essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. Based on in vitro data, pegcetacoplan has low potential 
for clinical drug-drug interactions. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
It is recommended that women of childbearing potential use effective contraception methods to 
prevent pregnancy during treatment with pegcetacoplan and for at least 8 weeks after the last dose of 
pegcetacoplan. For women planning to become pregnant, the use of ASPAVELI may be considered 
following an assessment of the risks and benefits (see Pregnancy). 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of pegcetacoplan in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
ASPAVELI is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether pegcetacoplan is excreted in human milk. The potential for absorption and 
harm to the breastfed infant is unknown. Animal data suggest a low excretion (less than 1%, not 
pharmacologically significant) of pegcetacoplan in monkey milk (see section 5.3). It is unlikely that a 
breastfed infant would have clinically relevant exposure. 
It is recommended to discontinue breast-feeding during pegcetacoplan treatment. 
Fertility 
No animal or human data on the effect of pegcetacoplan on fertility are available. In toxicity studies, 
there were no microscopic abnormalities in male or female reproductive organs in monkeys (see 
section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
ASPAVELI has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients treated with ASPAVELI were injection site 
reactions: injection site erythema, injection site pruritus, injection site swelling, injection site pain, 
injection site bruising. Other adverse reactions reported in more than 10% of patients during clinical 
studies were upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhoea, haemolysis, abdominal pain, headache, 
fatigue, and pyrexia, cough, urinary tract infection, vaccination complication, dizziness, pain in 
extremity, arthralgia, back pain, nausea. The most commonly reported serious adverse reactions were 
haemolysis and sepsis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from the clinical studies with pegcetacoplan in patients 
with PNH. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA system organ class (SOC) and frequency, using 
the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1 000 to 
<1/100) or rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), very rare (<1/10 000), and not known (cannot be estimated 
from available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
MedDRA System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
Very common 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common 
Common 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Very common 
Common 
7 
Adverse reaction 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Urinary tract infection 
Sepsis 
Gastrointestinal infection 
Fungal infection 
Skin infection 
Oral infection 
Ear infection 
Infection 
Respiratory tract infection 
Viral infection 
Bacterial infection 
Hordeolum 
COVID-19 
Cervicitis 
Groin infection 
Pneumonia 
Nasal abscess 
Ophthalmic herpes zoster 
Vulvovaginal mycotic infection 
Haemolysis 
Thrombocytopenia 
Neutropenia 
Hypokalaemia 
Anxiety 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Hypertension 
Cough 
Dyspnoea 
Epistaxis 
Oropharyngeal pain 
Nasal congestion 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Erythema 
Rash 
Arthralgia 
Back pain 
Pain in extremity 
Myalgia 
Muscle spasms 
Acute kidney injury 
Chromaturia 
Injection site erythema 
Injection site pruritus 
Injection site swelling 
Injection site bruising 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Injection site pain 
Injection site reaction 
Injection site induration 
MedDRA System Organ Class 
Investigations 
Frequency 
Common 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Very common 
Adverse reaction 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Bilirubin increased 
Vaccination complication1 
The adverse reactions listed in the table are from clinical studies APL2-302, Study 202, Study 204, and Study 
CP0514 in PNH. 
Medically similar terms are grouped, where appropriate, on the basis of similar medical concept. 
1Vaccination complications were related to the mandatory vaccinations. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
Based on its mechanism of action, the use of pegcetacoplan may potentially increase the risk of 
infections, particularly infections caused by encapsulated bacteria including Streptococcus 
pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis types A, C, W, Y, and B, and Haemophilus influenzae (see 
section 4.4). No serious infection caused by encapsulated bacteria was reported during Study 
APL2-302. Forty-eight patients experienced an infection during the study. The most frequent 
infections in patients treated with pegcetacoplan during Study APL2-302 were upper respiratory tract 
infection (28 cases, 35%). Most infections reported in patients treated with pegcetacoplan during study 
APL2-302 were non-serious, and predominantly mild in intensity. Ten patients developed infections 
reported as serious including one patient who died due to COVID-19. The most frequent serious 
infections were sepsis (3 cases) (leading to discontinuation of pegcetacoplan in one patient) and 
gastroenteritis (3 cases); all of which resolved. 
Haemolysis 
Nineteen patients reported haemolysis during Study APL2-302 in patients treated with pegcetacoplan. 
Seven cases were reported as serious, and 5 cases led to discontinuation of pegcetacoplan and the dose 
of pegcetacoplan was increased in 10 patients. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-drug antibody (ADA) incidence (seroconverted ADA or boosted ADA from pre-existing level) 
were low, and when present, had no noticeable impact on the PK/PD, efficacy, or safety profile of 
pegcetacoplan. Throughout Study APL2-302, 2 out of 80 patients developed anti-pegcetacoplan 
peptide antibodies. Both patients also tested positive for neutralizing antibody (NAb). NAb response 
had no apparent impact on PK or clinical efficacy. Six out of 80 patients developed anti-PEG antibody 
incidence; 2 were seroconversions and 4 were treatment-boosted. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported to date. In case of overdose, it is recommended that the patient 
be monitored for any signs or symptoms of adverse reactions and appropriate symptomatic treatment 
be instituted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Selective immunosuppressants, 
ATC code: L04AA54 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action 
Pegcetacoplan is a symmetrical molecule comprised of two identical pentadecapeptides covalently 
bound to the ends of a linear 40-kDa PEG molecule. The peptide moieties bind to complement C3 and 
exert a broad inhibition of the complement cascade. The 40-kDa PEG moiety imparts improved 
solubility and longer residence time in the body after administration of the medicinal product. 
Pegcetacoplan binds to complement protein C3 and its activation fragment C3b with high affinity, 
thereby regulating the cleavage of C3 and the generation of downstream effectors of complement 
activation. In PNH, extravascular haemolysis (EVH) is facilitated by C3b opsonization while 
intravascular haemolysis (IVH) is mediated by the downstream membrane attack complex (MAC). 
Pegcetacoplan exerts broad regulation of the complement cascade by acting proximal to both C3b and 
MAC formation, thereby controlling the mechanisms that lead to EVH and IVH. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In Study APL2-302, mean C3 concentration increased from 0.94 g/L at baseline to 3.83 g/L at 
Week 16 in the pegcetacoplan group. The baseline percentage of PNH Type II + III RBCs was 
66.80%, which then increased to 93.85% at Week 16. The mean percentage of PNH Type II + III 
RBCs with C3 deposition was 17.73% at baseline and this decreased to 0.20% at Week 16. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy and safety of ASPAVELI in patients with PNH was assessed in a phase 3 study 
(APL2-302) in which an open-label, randomised, active comparator-controlled period of 16 weeks was 
followed by a 32-week open label period (OLP). This study enrolled patients with PNH who had been 
treated with a stable dose of eculizumab for at least the previous 3 months and with haemoglobin 
levels <10.5 g/dL. 
Study APL2-302 
The dose of ASPAVELI was 1 080 mg twice weekly. Eligible patients entered a 4-week run-in period 
during which they received ASPAVELI 1 080 mg subcutaneously twice weekly in addition to their 
current dose of eculizumab. Patients were then randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either 1 080 mg of 
ASPAVELI twice weekly or their current dose of eculizumab through the duration of the 16-week 
randomised controlled period (RCP). Randomisation was stratified based on the number of packed red 
blood cell (PRBC) transfusions within the 12 months prior to Day -28 (<4; ≥4) and platelet count at 
screening (<100 000/mm3; ≥100 000/mm3). Patients who completed the RCP entered the OLP during 
which all patients received ASPAVELI for up to 32 weeks (patients who received eculizumab during 
the RCP entered a 4-week run-in period before switching to ASPAVELI monotherapy). If required, 
the dose of ASPAVELI could be adjusted to 1 080 mg every 3 days. 
The primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were assessed at Week 16. The primary efficacy 
endpoint was change from Baseline to Week 16 (during RCP) in haemoglobin level. Baseline was 
defined as the average of measurements prior to the first dose of pegcetacoplan (at the beginning of 
the run-in period). Key secondary efficacy endpoints were transfusion avoidance, defined as the 
proportion of patients who did not require a transfusion during the RCP, and change from Baseline to 
Week 16 in absolute reticulocyte count (ARC), LDH level, and FACIT-Fatigue scale score. 
A total of 80 patients entered the run-in period. At the end of the run-in period, all 80 were 
randomised, 41 to ASPAVELI and 39 to eculizumab. Demographics and baseline disease 
characteristics were generally well balanced between treatment groups (see Table 2). A total of 
38 patients in the group treated with ASPAVELI and 39 patients in the eculizumab group completed 
the 16-week RCP and continued into the 32-week open-label period. In total, 12 of 80 (15%) patients 
receiving ASPAVELI discontinued due to adverse events. Per protocol 15 patients had their dose 
adjusted to 1 080 mg every 3 days. Twelve patients were evaluated for benefit and 8 of the 12 patients 
demonstrated benefit from the dose adjustment. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Patient baseline demographics and characteristics in Study APL2-302 
Parameter 
Age (years) 
18-64 years 
≥65 years 
Dose level of eculizumab at baseline 
Every 2 weeks IV 900 mg 
Every 11 days IV 900 mg 
Every 2 weeks IV 1 200 mg 
Every 2 weeks IV 1 500 mg 
Female 
Time since diagnosis of PNH (years) 
to Day -28 
Haemoglobin level (g/dL) 
Reticulocyte count (109/L) 
LDH level (U/L) 
Total FACIT-Fatigue* 
Number of transfusions in last 
12 months prior to Day -28 
<4 
≥4 
Statistics 
Mean (SD) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
ASPAVELI (N=41)  Eculizumab (N=39) 
50.2 (16.3) 
31 (75.6) 
10 (24.4) 
26 (63.4) 
1 (2.4) 
12 (29.3) 
2 (4.9) 
27 (65.9) 
8.7 (7.4) 
8.7 (1.1) 
218 (75.0) 
257.5 (97.6) 
32.2 (11.4) 
6.1 (7.3) 
20 (48.8) 
21 (51.2) 
47.3 (15.8) 
32 (82.1) 
7 (17.9) 
29 (74.4) 
1 (2.6) 
9 (23.1) 
0 
22 (56.4) 
11.4 (9.7) 
8.7 (0.9) 
216 (69.1) 
308.6 (284.8) 
31.6 (12.5) 
6.9 (7.7) 
16 (41.0) 
23 (59.0) 
Platelet count at screening 
(count/mm3) 
<100 000 
≥100 000 
History of aplastic anaemia 
History of myelodysplastic syndrome 
Mean (SD) 
167 (98.3) 
147 (68.8) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
12 (29.3) 
29 (70.7) 
11 (26.8) 
1 (2.4) 
9 (23.1) 
30 (76.9) 
9 (23.1) 
2 (5.1) 
*FACIT-Fatigue is measured on a scale of 0-52, with higher values indicating less fatigue. 
ASPAVELI was superior to eculizumab for the primary endpoint of the haemoglobin change from 
baseline (P<0.0001). 
Figure 1. Adjusted mean change in haemoglobin (g/dL) from baseline to Week 16 
Non-inferiority was demonstrated in key secondary endpoints of transfusion avoidance and change 
from baseline in ARC. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-inferiority was not met in change from baseline in LDH. 
Due to hierarchical testing, statistical testing for change from baseline for FACIT-Fatigue score was 
not formally tested. 
The adjusted means, treatment difference, confidence intervals, and statistical analyses performed for 
the key secondary endpoints are shown in Figure 2. 
Figure 2. Key secondary endpoints analysis 
Results were consistent across all supportive analyses of the primary and key secondary endpoints, 
including all observed data with post transfusion data included. 
Haemoglobin normalization was achieved in 34% of patients in the ASPAVELI group versus 0% in 
the eculizumab group at Week 16. LDH normalization was achieved in 71% of patients in the group 
treated with ASPAVELI versus 15% in the eculizumab group. 
A total of 77 patients entered the 32-week OLP, during which all patients received ASPAVELI, 
resulting in a total exposure of up to 48 weeks. The results at Week 48 were generally consistent with 
those at Week 16 and support sustained efficacy. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
ASPAVELI in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in paroxysmal nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Pegcetacoplan is administered by subcutaneous infusion and gradually absorbed into the systemic 
circulation with a median Tmax between 108 and 144 hours (4.5 to 6.0 days) following a single 
subcutaneous dose to healthy volunteers. Steady-state serum concentrations following twice weekly 
dosing at 1 080 mg in patients with PNH were achieved approximately 4 to 6 weeks following the first 
dose and mean (%CV) steady-state serum concentrations ranged between 655 (18.6%) to 
706 (15.1%) µg/mL in patients treated for 16 weeks. Steady-state concentrations in the patients (n=22) 
that continued to receive pegcetacoplan up to Week 48 were 622.94 µg/mL (39.7%), indicating 
sustainable therapeutic concentrations of pegcetacoplan through Week 48. The bioavailability of a 
subcutaneous dose of pegcetacoplan is estimated to be 77% based on population PK analysis. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The mean (%CV) volume of distribution of pegcetacoplan is approximately 3.9 L (35%) in patients 
with PNH based on population PK analysis. 
Metabolism/elimination 
Based on its PEGylated peptide structure, the metabolism of pegcetacoplan is expected to occur via 
catabolic pathways and be degraded into small peptides, amino acids, and PEG. Results of a 
radiolabelled study in cynomolgus monkeys suggest the primary route of elimination of the labelled 
peptide moiety is via urinary excretion. Although the elimination of PEG was not studied, it is known 
to undergo renal excretion. 
Pegcetacoplan showed no inhibition or induction of the CYP enzyme isoforms tested as demonstrated 
from the results of in vitro studies. Pegcetacoplan was neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of the human 
uptake or efflux transporters. 
Following multiple subcutaneous dosing of pegcetacoplan in patients with PNH, the mean (%CV) of 
clearance is 0.015 (28%) L/h and median effective half-life of elimination (t1/2) is 8.0 days as 
estimated by the population PK analysis. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Exposure of pegcetacoplan increases in a dose proportional manner from 45 to 1 440 mg. 
Special populations 
No impact on the pharmacokinetics of pegcetacoplan was identified with age (19-81 years) and sex 
based on the results of population PK analysis. Race was also shown not to have an impact; however, 
data are limited and therefore not considered conclusive. 
Patients with a body weight below 50 kg are predicted to have up to 34% higher average exposure at 
steady state compared to a 70-kg subject, based on population PK analysis. Minimal data are available 
on the safety profile of pegcetacoplan for patients with a body weight below 50 kg. 
Elderly 
Although there were no apparent age-related differences observed in these studies, the number of 
patients aged 65 years and over is not sufficient to determine whether they respond differently from 
younger patients. See section 4.2. 
Renal impairment 
In a study of 8 patients with severe renal impairment, defined as creatinine clearance (CrCl) less than 
30 mL/min using the Cockcroft-Gault formula (with 4 patients with values less than 20 mL/min), renal 
impairment had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of a single 270-mg dose of pegcetacoplan. There 
are minimal data on patients with PNH with renal impairment who have been administered the clinical 
dose of 1 080 mg twice weekly. There are no available clinical data for the use of pegcetacoplan in 
patients with ESRD requiring haemodialysis. See section 4.2. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In vitro and in vivo toxicology data reveal no toxicity of special concern for humans. Effects observed 
in animals at exposure levels similar to clinical exposure levels are described below. These effects 
were not observed in clinical studies. 
Animal reproduction 
Pegcetacoplan treatment of pregnant cynomolgus monkeys at a subcutaneous dose of 28 mg/kg/day 
(2.9 times the human steady-state Cmax) from the gestation period through parturition resulted in a 
statistically significant increase in abortions or stillbirths. No maternal toxicity or teratogenic effects 
were observed in offspring delivered at term. Additionally, no developmental effects were observed in 
infants up to 6 months postpartum. Systemic exposure to pegcetacoplan was detected in foetuses from 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monkeys treated with 28 mg/kg/day from the period of organogenesis through the second trimester, 
but the exposure was minimal (less than 1%, not pharmacologically significant). 
Carcinogenesis 
Long term animal carcinogenicity studies of pegcetacoplan have not been conducted. 
Genotoxicity 
Pegcetacoplan was not mutagenic when tested in in vitro bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assays and 
was not genotoxic in an in vitro assay in human TK6 cells or in an in vivo micronucleus assay in mice. 
Animal toxicology 
Repeat-dose studies were conducted in rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys with daily subcutaneous 
doses of pegcetacoplan up to 7 times the human dose (1 080 mg twice weekly). Histologic findings in 
both species included dose-dependent epithelial vacuolation and infiltrates of vacuolated macrophages 
in multiple tissues. These findings have been associated with large cumulative doses of long-chain 
PEG in other marketed PEGylated drugs, were without clinical consequence, and were not considered 
adverse. Reversibility was not demonstrated in the pegcetacoplan animal studies after one month and 
was not evaluated for a longer duration. Data from literature suggest reversibility of PEG vacuoles. 
Renal tubular degeneration was observed microscopically in both species at exposures (Cmax and 
AUC) less than or comparable to those for the human dose and was minimal and nonprogressive 
between 4 weeks and 9 months of daily administration of pegcetacoplan. Although no overt signs of 
renal dysfunction were observed in animals, the clinical significance and functional consequence of 
these findings are unknown. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sorbitol (E 420) 
Glacial acetic acid 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injection 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Store in the original carton to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
A Type I glass vial with a stopper (cholorobutyl), and a seal (aluminium) with a flip-off cap 
(polypropylene) containing 54 mg/mL of sterile solution. 
Each single pack contains 1 vial. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Multipack containing 8 (8 packs of 1) vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
ASPAVELI comes as a ready-to-use solution in single-use vials. Because the solution contains no 
preservative, this medicinal product should be infused immediately after preparing the syringe. 
ASPAVELI is a clear, colourless to slightly yellowish aqueous solution. Do not use if the liquid looks 
cloudy, contains particles, or is dark yellow. 
Always bring the vial to the room temperature for approximately 30 minutes before use. 
Remove the protective flip cap from the vial to expose the central portion of the gray rubber stopper of 
the vial. Clean the stopper with a new alcohol wipe and allow the stopper to dry. Do not use if the 
protective flip cap is missing or damaged. 
Option 1: If using a needleless transfer device (such as a vial adapter), follow the instructions provided 
by the device manufacturer. 
Option 2: If transfer is done using a transfer needle and a syringe, follow the instructions below: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Attach a sterile transfer needle to a sterile syringe. 
Pull back the plunger to fill the syringe with air, which should be about 20 mL. 
Make sure the vial is in upright position. Do not turn the vial upside down. 
Push the air-filled syringe with transfer needle attached through the centre of the vial stopper. 
The tip of the transfer needle should not be in the solution to avoid creating bubbles. 
Gently push the air from the syringe into the vial. This will inject the air from the syringe into 
the vial. 
Invert the vial. 
• 
•  With the transfer needle tip in the solution, slowly pull the plunger to fill the syringe with all the 
liquid. 
Remove the filled syringe and the transfer needle from the vial. 
Do not recap the transfer needle. Unscrew the needle and throw it away in the sharps container. 
• 
• 
Follow the device manufacturer’s instructions to prepare the infusion pump and tubing. 
Potential areas for infusion include the abdomen, thighs, hips, or upper arms. Rotate infusion sites 
from one infusion to the next. If there are multiple infusion sites, they should be at least 7.5 cm apart. 
The typical infusion time is approximately 30 minutes (if using two sites) or approximately 60 minutes 
(if using one site). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1595/001 
EU/1/21/1595/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 13 December 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Strandbergsgatan 49 
112 51 Stockholm 
Sweden 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of ASPAVELI in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
must agree about the content and format of the educational and controlled distribution programme, 
including communication media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, 
with the National Competent Authority. 
The educational and controlled distribution programme is aimed at: 
•  Ensuring patients receive vaccinations against N. meningitidis, S. pneumoniae, and 
H. influenzae at least 2 weeks before starting treatment with ASPAVELI 
•  Ensuring that patients who cannot wait 2 weeks before starting treatment with ASPAVELI 
receive broad-spectrum antibiotics until 2 weeks after receiving the vaccines 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Ensuring that ASPAVELI is only dispensed after written confirmation that the patient has 
received vaccination against N. meningitidis, S. pneumoniae, and H. influenzae and/or is 
receiving prophylactic antibiotic according to national guidelines 
•  Ensuring prescribers or pharmacists receive annual reminders of mandatory revaccinations in 
accordance with current national vaccination guidelines (including N. meningitidis, 
S. pneumoniae, and H. influenzae) 
•  Providing information about the signs and symptoms of serious infections to healthcare 
providers and patients 
•  Ensuring that prescribers provide patients with the package leaflet and patient card and explain 
the main risks of ASPAVELI using these materials 
•  Ensuring that patients who experience symptoms of serious infections seek emergency 
medical treatment and present their patient card to the emergency care provider 
•  Educate prescribers and patients about the risk of IVH after discontinuation of the medicinal 
product and postponement of administration and the need to maintain effective complement 
inhibitor treatment 
•  Educate prescribers about the risk of potential long-term effects of PEG accumulation and the 
recommendation to monitor as clinically indicated, including through laboratory testing. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where ASPAVELI is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use ASPAVELI have access to/are 
provided with the following educational package: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient information pack 
Physician educational material: 
o  The SmPC 
o  Guide for healthcare professionals 
o  Patient card 
•  Guide for healthcare professionals: 
o  Treatment with ASPAVELI may increase the risk of serious infections with encapsulated 
bacteria. 
o  The need for patients to be vaccinated against N. meningitidis, S. pneumoniae, and 
H. influenzae and/or receive antibiotic prophylaxis. 
o  Annual reminder of mandatory revaccinations (in accordance with current national 
vaccination guidelines). 
o  Risk of IVH after discontinuation and postponement of administration of the medicinal 
product, its criteria, the required post-treatment monitoring, and its proposed management. 
o  Risk of potential long-term effects of PEG accumulation and the recommendation to 
monitor as clinically indicated, including through laboratory testing. 
o  The need to educate patients/carers of the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the risks of treatment with ASPAVELI 
signs and symptoms of serious infections, hypersensitivity reactions, and what 
action to take 
the patient/carer guides and its content 
the need to carry the patient card and to tell any healthcare practitioner that he/she is 
receiving treatment with ASPAVELI 
the requirement for vaccinations/antibiotic prophylaxis 
the enrolment in the PASS 
o 
o 
Instructions on how to handle possible adverse events. 
Information about the PASS, the importance of contributing to such a study, and how to 
enter patients. 
o  Remarks on the importance of reporting on specific adverse reactions, namely: serious 
infections, serious hypersensitivity reactions, and risk of IVH after discontinuation of the 
medicinal product. 
18 
 
 
 
 
•  Patient card: 
o  A warning message for healthcare professionals treating the patient at any time, including in 
conditions of emergency, that the patient is using ASPAVELI. 
o  Signs or symptoms of the serious infections and warning to seek immediate attention from a 
healthcare professional if above is present. 
o  Contact details of the ASPAVELI prescriber. 
The patient information pack: 
o  Patient information leaflet 
o  Patient/carer guide 
•  Patient/carer guide: 
o  Treatment with ASPAVELI may increase the risk of serious infections with encapsulated 
bacteria, serious hypersensitivity reactions, and risk of IVH after discontinuation of the 
medicinal product. 
o  A description of the signs and symptoms of serious infections, hypersensitivity reactions, 
IVH after discontinuation of the medicinal product, and the need to seek emergency care at 
the nearest hospital. 
o  The importance of vaccination prior to treatment with ASPAVELI and/or to receive 
antibiotic prophylaxis. 
o  Annual reminder of mandatory revaccinations (in accordance with current national 
vaccination guidelines). 
o  Detailed description of the modalities used for the self-administration of ASPAVELI. 
o  Recommendation for use of effective contraception in women of childbearing potential. 
o  Remarks on the importance of reporting on specific adverse reactions, namely: serious 
infections, serious hypersensitivity reactions, and risk of IVH after discontinuation of the 
medicinal product. 
Instructions on how to view the patient self-treatment video on any internet-connected 
device. 
o 
o  Enrolment in the PASS. 
Annual reminder of mandatory revaccinations  
The MAH shall send annually to prescribers or pharmacists who prescribe/dispense ASPAVELI, a 
reminder in order that the prescriber/pharmacist checks if a re-vaccination against N. meningitidis, 
S. pneumoniae, and H. influenzae is required for his/her patients on treatment with ASPAVELI, in 
accordance with national vaccination guidelines. 
System for controlled distribution 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where ASPAVELI is marketed, a system aimed to 
control distribution beyond the level of routine risk minimisation measures is in place. The following 
requirement needs to be fulfilled before the product is dispensed. 
•  Submission of written confirmation of the patient’s vaccination against N. meningitidis, 
S. pneumoniae, and H. influenzae and/or prophylactic antibiotic treatment according to 
national vaccination guidelines. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON CONTAINING 1 VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg solution for infusion 
pegcetacoplan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 20 mL vial contains 1 080 mg pegcetacoplan (54 mg/mL) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sorbitol, glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, sodium hydroxide, and water for 
injection 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1595/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON CONTAINING 8 VIALS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg solution for infusion 
pegcetacoplan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 20 mL vial contains 1 080 mg pegcetacoplan (54 mg/mL) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sorbitol, glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, sodium hydroxide, and water for 
injection 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for infusion 
8 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1595/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INNER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON CONTAINING 1 VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg solution for infusion 
pegcetacoplan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 20 mL vial contains 1 080 mg pegcetacoplan (54 mg/mL) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for infusion 
1 vial. Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1595/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg solution for infusion 
pegcetacoplan 
For subcutaneous use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
ASPAVELI 1 080 mg solution for infusion 
pegcetacoplan 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, or pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What ASPAVELI is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use ASPAVELI 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use ASPAVELI 
Possible side effects 
How to store ASPAVELI 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What ASPAVELI is and what it is used for 
What is ASPAVELI 
ASPAVELI is a medicine that contains the active substance pegcetacoplan. Pegcetacoplan has been 
designed to attach to the C3 complement protein, which is a part of the body’s defence system called 
the ‘complement system’. Pegcetacoplan prevents your body’s immune system from destroying your 
red blood cells. 
What is ASPAVELI used for 
ASPAVELI is used to treat adult patients with a disease called paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
(PNH) who are still anaemic after treatment with another type of PNH medicine, called a C5 inhibitor, 
for at least 3 months. 
In patients with PNH, the ‘complement system’ is overactive and attacks their red blood cells, which 
can lead to low blood counts (anaemia), tiredness, difficulty in functioning, pain, abdominal pain, dark 
urine, shortness of breath, difficulty swallowing, erectile dysfunction, and blood clots. By attaching to 
and blocking the C3 protein, this medicine can stop the complement system from attacking red blood 
cells and so control symptoms of the disease. This medicine has been shown to increase the number of 
red blood cells (reduce anaemia), which may improve these symptoms. 
2.  What you need to know before you use ASPAVELI 
Do not use ASPAVELI 
- 
if you are allergic to pegcetacoplan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you have an infection caused by so-called encapsulated bacteria. 
if you are not vaccinated against Neisseria meningitidis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and 
Haemophilus influenzae. 
- 
- 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using ASPAVELI. 
Symptoms of infection 
Before starting ASPAVELI, inform your doctor if you have any infections. 
Because the medicine targets the complement system, which is part of the body’s defences against 
infection, the use of this medicine increases your risk of infections, including those caused by the 
so-called encapsulated bacteria, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, and 
Haemophilus influenzae. These are severe infections affecting your nose, throat and lungs or the 
linings of the brain and can spread throughout the blood and body. 
Talk to your doctor before you start ASPAVELI to be sure that you receive vaccination against 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Haemophilus influenzae if you have not had 
these vaccines in the past. If you have had these vaccines in the past, you might still need additional 
vaccinations before starting this medicine. These vaccinations should be given at least 2 weeks before 
beginning therapy. If you cannot be vaccinated 2 weeks beforehand, your doctor will prescribe 
antibiotics to reduce the risk of infection for 2 weeks after you have been vaccinated. Following 
vaccination, you may be more closely monitored by your doctor for symptoms of infection. 
Infection symptoms 
If you experience any of the following symptoms, you should immediately inform your doctor: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
headache and a fever 
fever and a rash 
fever with or without shivers or chills 
shortness of breath 
high heart rate 
clammy skin 
headache with a stiff neck or stiff back 
headache with nausea (feeling sick) or vomiting 
eyes sensitive to light 
muscle aches with flu-like symptoms 
confusion 
extreme pain or discomfort 
Make sure that you keep your vaccinations up to date. You should also be aware that vaccines reduce 
the risk of serious infections, but do not prevent all serious infections. In accordance with national 
recommendations, your doctor might consider that you need supplementary measures such as 
antibacterial medicines to prevent infection. 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions may appear in some patients. In case of severe allergic reaction, discontinue 
ASPAVELI infusion and seek medical help immediately. Severe allergic reaction may present as 
difficulty breathing, chest pain or chest tightness, and/or feeling dizzy/faint, severe itching of the skin 
or raised lumps on the skin, swelling of the face, lips, tongue and /or throat, which may cause 
difficulty in swallowing or collapse. 
Injection site reactions 
Injection site reactions have been observed with the use of ASPAVELI. You should undergo 
appropriate training in proper injection technique before self-administering. 
Laboratory monitoring 
During your treatment with ASPAVELI your doctor will perform regular check-ups, including blood 
tests for lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels and tests of renal function, and may adjust your dose if 
needed. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on laboratory tests 
Use of silica reagents in coagulation tests should be avoided as it can result in artificially prolonged 
activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT). 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children under 18 years of age as no data are available on its safety and 
effectiveness in this group. 
Other medicines and ASPAVELI 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using or have recently used or might use any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding, and fertility 
Women of childbearing potential 
The effects of the medicine on an unborn child are not known. The use of effective contraception 
methods is recommended during treatment and up to 8 weeks after treatment by women who are able 
to get pregnant. Ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy/breast-feeding 
ASPAVELI is not recommended during pregnancy and breast-feeding. If you are pregnant or 
breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for advice 
before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
ASPAVELI contains sorbitol 
Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If your doctor has told you that you have an intolerance to some sugars 
or if you have been diagnosed with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare genetic disorder in 
which a person cannot break down fructose, talk to your doctor before you take or receive this 
medicine. 
ASPAVELI contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use ASPAVELI 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
At least 2 weeks before you start treatment with this medicine, your doctor will review your medical 
records and may give you one or more vaccinations. If you cannot be vaccinated at least 2 weeks 
before you start treatment with ASPAVELI, to reduce the risk of infection, your doctor will prescribe 
antibiotics for 2 weeks after you have been vaccinated. 
Dose 
The initial recommended dose for adults with PNH is 1 080 mg twice a week in addition to your 
current dose of C5 inhibitor as prescribed for 4 weeks. You should take the twice weekly dose on 
Day 1 and Day 4 of each treatment week. After 4 weeks you should stop taking your C5 inhibitor. 
The dose or dosing interval should not be changed without consulting your doctor. Your doctor may 
adjust your dose to 1 080 mg every third day (e.g., Day 1, Day 4, Day 7, Day 10, Day 13, and so forth) 
if appropriate. If you think you have missed a dose, speak to your doctor as soon as possible. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method and route of administration 
ASPAVELI is intended to be given as an infusion (drip) under the skin using an infusion pump. Your 
first doses of the medicine will be given to you by healthcare professionals in a clinic or treatment 
centre. If treatment goes well, your doctor may discuss with you the possibility of you giving the 
medicine yourself at home. If this is appropriate, a healthcare professional will train you or a caregiver 
how to give the infusion. 
Infusion rate(s) 
The typical infusion time is approximately 30 minutes if you use 2 infusion sites or approximately 
60 minutes if using 1 site. The infusion should be started promptly (and completed within 2 hours after 
preparing the syringe) after drawing this medicinal product into the syringe. 
Instructions for use 
Step 1  Prepare for infusion 
Before you start: 
1.  Remove a single vial carton from 
the refrigerator. Keep the vial in the 
carton at room temperature and 
allow it to warm up for 
approximately 30 minutes. 
a.  Do not try to speed up the 
warming process using a 
microwave or any other 
heat source. 
2.  Find a well-lit, flat work surface 
area, like a table. 
Figure 1 Example of Supplies 
3.  Gather your supplies (Figure 1): 
D. 
A. 
Syringe system infusion 
pump and 
manufacturer’s 
instructions (not shown) 
Compatible syringe 
B. 
C1.  Transfer needle OR 
C2.  Needleless transfer 
device to draw up 
product from the vial 
Infusion set (not shown; 
varies according to 
device manufacturer’s 
instructions) 
Infusion tubing and 
Y-connector (if required) 
Sharps container 
F. 
G.  Alcohol wipes 
H.  Gauze and tape, or 
transparent dressing 
E. 
Thoroughly clean your work surface using an 
alcohol wipe. 
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and 
water. Dry your hands. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 2  Check the vial and liquid 
Figure 2 
Remove the vial from the carton. Carefully 
look at the liquid in the vial. ASPAVELI is a 
clear, colourless to slightly yellowish liquid. 
Check for particles or colour changes 
(Figure 2). 
Do not use the vial if: 
•  The liquid looks cloudy, contains 
particles, or is dark yellow. 
•  The protective flip cap is missing or 
damaged. 
•  The expiry date (EXP) on the label 
has passed. 
34 
 
Step 3  Prepare and fill syringe 
Figure 3 
Remove the protective flip cap from the vial 
to expose the central portion of the grey 
rubber stopper of the vial (Figure 3). Throw 
the cap away. 
Clean the stopper with a new alcohol wipe 
and allow the stopper to dry. 
Option 1: If using a needleless transfer 
device (such as a vial adapter), follow the 
instructions provided by the device 
manufacturer. 
OR 
Option 2: If transfer is done using a transfer 
needle and a syringe, follow the instructions 
below: 
Figure 4 
A.  Attach a sterile transfer 
needle to a sterile syringe. 
B.  Pull back the plunger to fill 
the syringe with air, which 
should be about 20 mL 
(Figure 4). 
C.  Make sure the vial is in 
upright position. Do NOT 
turn the vial upside down. 
Push the air-filled syringe 
with transfer needle attached 
through the centre of the vial 
stopper. 
D.  The tip of the transfer needle 
should not be in the solution 
to avoid creating bubbles. 
(Figure 5). 
E.  Gently push the air from the 
syringe into the vial. This 
will inject the air from the 
syringe into the vial. 
F.  Turn the vial upside down 
(Figure 6). 
G.  With the transfer needle tip in 
the solution slowly pull the 
plunger to fill the syringe 
with all the liquid (Figure 7). 
H.  Remove the filled syringe 
and the transfer needle from 
the vial. 
I.  Do not recap the transfer 
needle. Unscrew the needle 
and throw it away in the 
sharps container. 
Figure 5 
Figure 6 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7 
Step 4  Prepare syringe system infusion pump and 
tubing 
Gather the infusion pump supplies and 
follow the device manufacturer’s instructions 
to prepare the pump and tubing. 
Step 5  Prepare the infusion site(s) 
Figure 8 
A.  Select an area on your abdomen 
(except for the five centimetres area 
around the belly button), thighs, 
hips, or upper arms region for the 
infusion(s) (Figure 8). 
B.  Use a different site(s) from the one 
you used for your last infusion. If 
there are multiple infusion sites, 
they should be at least 7.5 cm apart. 
Rotate infusion sites in between 
each infusion (Figure 9). 
C.  Avoid the following infusion 
areas: 
a.  Do not infuse into areas 
where the skin is tender, 
bruised, red, or hard. 
b.  Avoid tattoos, scars, or 
stretch marks. 
Figure 9 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 
D.  Clean the skin at each infusion 
site(s) with a new alcohol wipe, 
starting at the centre and working 
outward in a circular motion 
(Figure 10). 
E.  Let the skin dry. 
Step 6 
Insert and secure the infusion needle(s) 
Figure 11 
A.  Pinch the skin between your thumb 
and forefinger around the infusion 
site (where you intend to place the 
needle). Insert the needle into the 
skin (Figure 11). Follow the device 
manufacturer’s instructions on the 
angle of the needle. 
B.  Secure the needle(s) using sterile 
gauze and tape or a transparent 
dressing placed over the infusion 
site(s) (Figure 12). 
Figure 12 
Step 7  Start infusion 
Follow the device manufacturer’s 
instructions to start the infusion. 
Start the infusion promptly after drawing the 
solution into the syringe. 
Step 8  Complete infusion 
Follow the device manufacturer’s 
instructions to complete the infusion. 
Step 9  Record infusion 
Record your treatment as directed by your 
healthcare professional. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 
10 
Clean up 
A.  After the infusion is complete, 
Figure 13 
remove the dressing and slowly take 
out the needle(s). Cover the infusion 
site with a new dressing. 
B.  Disconnect the infusion set from the 
pump and discard into the sharps 
container (Figure 13). 
C.  Throw away all used disposable 
supplies as well as any unused 
product and the empty vial as 
recommended by your healthcare 
professional. 
D.  Clean and store the syringe system 
infusion pump according to the 
device manufacturer’s instructions. 
If you forget to use ASPAVELI 
If you miss a dose, it should be taken as soon as possible; then take the next dose at the regularly 
planned time. 
If you stop using ASPAVELI 
PNH is a lifelong condition and so it is expected that you will use this medicine for a long time. If you 
wish to stop using the medicine, please speak to your doctor first. If you stop taking the medicine 
suddenly, you may be at risk of making your symptoms worse. 
If your doctor decides to stop your treatment with this medicine, follow their instructions for how to 
stop. Your doctor will monitor you closely for at least 8 weeks after stopping treatment for any signs 
of the destruction of red blood cells (haemolysis) due to PNH. Symptoms or problems that can happen 
due to destruction of red blood cell include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
tiredness 
shortness of breath 
blood in the urine 
stomach-area (abdomen) pain 
drop in the number of your red blood cell count 
blood clots (thrombosis) 
trouble swallowing 
erectile dysfunction in males 
If you have any of these signs and symptoms, contact your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Your doctor will discuss the possible side effects with you and explain the risks and benefits of 
ASPAVELI with you before treatment. 
The most serious side effect is serious infection. 
If you experience any of the infection symptoms (see section 2 “Infection symptoms”), you should 
immediately inform your doctor. 
If you are not sure what the side effects below are, ask your doctor to explain them to you. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Reactions at the site of injection: These include redness (erythema), swelling, itching (pruritus), 
bruising and pain. These reactions usually go away within a few days 
Infection of the nose, throat, or airways (upper respiratory tract infection) 
Diarrhoea 
Destruction of red blood cells (haemolysis) 
Stomach pain (abdominal pain) 
Headache 
Tiredness (fatigue) 
Fever or high temperature (pyrexia) 
Cough 
Urinary tract infection 
Complications related to the mandatory vaccinations 
Dizziness 
Arm and leg pain (pain in extremities) 
Joint pain (arthralgia) 
Back pain 
Nausea (feeling sick) 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Reaction at the site of injection, such as redness, or hardening of the skin 
Infection in the ear, mouth or skin 
Pain in the throat 
Fewer platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenia) which may cause bleeding or bruising more 
easily than normal 
Nose bleed (epistaxis) 
Skin redness (erythema) 
Muscle pain (myalgia) 
Infection of the stomach and intestines, which may cause symptoms of mild to severe nausea, 
vomiting, cramps, diarrhoea (gastrointestinal infection) 
Elevated liver tests 
Difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) 
Decreased levels of potassium in the blood (hypokalaemia) 
Fewer number of white blood cells (neutropenia) 
Impaired kidney function 
Anxiety 
Different colour of the urine 
High blood pressure 
Muscle spasms 
Stuffy nose (nasal congestion) 
Rash 
Infection in the blood (sepsis) 
Fungal infection 
Respiratory tract infection 
Viral infection 
Bacterial infection 
Stye (hordeolum) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
COVID-19 
Inflammation of the cervix 
Groin infection 
Pocket of pus in nose (nasal abscess) 
Viral eye infection (ophthalmic herpes zoster) 
Pneumonia 
Vaginal yeast infection (vulvovaginal mycotic infection) 
39 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store ASPAVELI 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Keep the vial in the original carton in order to protect it from light. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away 
medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What ASPAVELI contains 
The active substance is pegcetacoplan 1 080 mg (54 mg/mL in a 20 mL vial). 
The other ingredients are: sorbitol (E 420) (see section 2 “ASPAVELI contains sorbitol”), glacial 
acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate (see section 2 “ASPAVELI contains sodium”), sodium 
hydroxide (see section 2 “ASPAVELI contains sodium”), and water for injection. 
What ASPAVELI looks like and contents of the pack 
ASPAVELI is a clear, colourless to slightly yellowish solution for subcutaneous infusion (54 mg/mL 
in a 20 mL vial). Solutions that are cloudy or have particles or colour change should not be used. 
Pack sizes 
ASPAVELI comes in a pack of 1 vial or a multipack of 1 x 8 vials. 
Please note that alcohol swabs, needles, and other supplies or equipment are not contained in the pack. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
Manufacturer 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Strandbergsgatan 49 
112 51 Stockholm 
Sweden 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
