26 February 2015 
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015 
Assessment report 
Review under Article 5(3) of Regulation EC (No) 726/2004 
Polymyxin-based products 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-5(3)/1384 
Note   
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a 
commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Referral of the matter to the CHMP ................................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Strength expression and potency ...................................................................... 4 
2.3. Synthesis, manufacturing and structure ........................................................... 4 
2.4. Stability .......................................................................................................... 13 
2.5. Changes to the product information ................................................................ 16 
3. Overall conclusion ................................................................................. 17 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Referral of the matter to the CHMP 
On 13 September 2013, the Agency’s Executive Director requested the Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use (CHMP) to provide an opinion under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 on whether the current manufacturing, the quality control methods and the European 
Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) monographs for polymyxin-based products need to be revised. The CHMP 
was asked to give particular consideration to the need to establish limits/ranges for each of the 
subcomponents of colistimethate sodium, the suitability of the potency bioassay and the need to 
update and harmonise Module 3 (CMC).  
The procedure started on 19 September 2013. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The emergence of multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria that cause nosocomial infections is a 
growing problem worldwide. Limited therapeutic options have led to an increased clinical use of 
colistin, a polymyxin antibiotic developed over 50 years ago and which has retained activity against a 
number of multi-drug resistant pathogens. This is possibly due to its limited clinical use, as the 
parenteral formulation quickly decreased in utilisation following authorisation in the 1960s, due to the 
existence of safer, less neurotoxic and nephrotoxic therapeutic options.  
Polymyxins are currently listed among the critically important antimicrobials and in view of the 
importance of ensuring the availability of efficacious and safe antibiotics in order to efficiently respond 
to the threat posed by the spread of antimicrobial resistance, the European Medicines Agency initiated 
a review under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 on 13 September 2013, requesting the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) to give its opinion on whether the current 
manufacturing process, quality control methods and Ph. Eur. monographs for polymyxin-based 
products need to be revised. The CHMP should give particular consideration to the need to establish 
limits/ranges for each of the subcomponents of colistimethate sodium (CMS), the suitability of the 
potency bioassay as currently described in the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) monographs and 
the need to update and harmonise the Quality dossier (Module 3).  
Of note, recent clinical experience and the medical literature point to the urgent need to update the 
product information, in particular the indications, the dosage recommendations and the PK/PD 
information, as highlighted by recent reports of suboptimal efficacy and the emergence of colistin 
resistance, in particular when used as monotherapy. A parallel review under Article 31 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC was concluded in October, in the context of which the CHMP recommended a 
number of changes to the product information of polymyxin-based products. 
The CHMP noted that only two manufacturers of the active substance colistimethate sodium are 
currently authorised in the EU: Xellia Pharmaceutical ApS (Xellia), which is the major supplier to EU 
marketing authorisation holders (MAHs) and Tarchomińskie Zakłady Farmaceutyczne "Polfa" S.A. 
(Polfa), which is understood to only supply one Polish MAH. In its assessment, the CHMP reviewed all 
available data, including data submitted during the procedure by the manufacturers and the MAHs in 
response to questions raised by CHMP. In the context of the procedure, the CHMP consulted the 
Quality Working Party (QWP). This assessment report considers the nomenclature, characterisations, 
manufacture, purity, control and stability of CMS active substance and finished product and presents a 
summary of the relevant data for the procedure. 
The CHMP noted that Ph. Eur. monographs exist for both colistin and CMS (monographs 0320 and 
0319 respectively). The monographs were first published in the British Pharmacopoeia in 1966 and 
were subsequently transferred to the Ph. Eur. but have remained largely unchanged since, with only 
minor amendments. Both monographs are therefore potentially extensively outdated and given the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
resurgence in clinical use of polymyxin-based products, they may no longer be fit for purpose. A 
revision of the monographs should therefore be considered, if possible, to minimise variability of the 
active substance and thus ensure consistent quality of the finished product. The CHMP noted that a 
revision of the Ph. Eur. monograph for CMS is currently being undertaken by the European Directorate 
for the Quality of Medicines & HealthCare (EDQM). 
2.2.  Strength expression and potency 
The CHMP reviewed the available data to determine the optimal way of expressing the strength and 
dose of polymyxin-containing finished products and noted the currently existing differences. The EU 
reference standard is declared in international units (IU)/mg, while the US reference standard is 
declared in µg activity/mg of colistin base activity (CBA). Accordingly, in clinical practice in the EU and 
in the European and British Pharmacopoeia, strength and vial contents are expressed as IU of CMS 
while in other parts of the world, such as North America and Australia, vial contents are expressed in 
mg of CBA, even though the finished product content is CMS. 
The definition of an international unit of the drug is biological, i.e. 1 IU of colistin is defined as the 
amount of colistin that inhibits the growth of the E. coli 95 I.S.M. strain under standardised conditions. 
Based on historical information referenced in Martindale: The Extra Pharmacopoeia (29th edition), it is 
generally accepted that 1 mg of pure CBA has a potency of 30,000 IU, while 1 mg of CMS has a 
nominal potency of 12,500 IU. These conversions are valid whether the potency result is obtained from 
testing with US or EU reference material and the potency can therefore be converted from IU/mg to µg 
activity/mg and vice-versa. As a result, 1 million IU (MIU) of CMS is approximately equal to 80 mg 
CMS or 33.3 mg CBA. In the EU, this results in a conversion factor of 2.4 (80 mg CMS divided by 33.3 
mg CBA) which means that 2.4 mg of CMS is required to obtain 1 mg of CBA. The CHMP noted that 
other sources (published Ph. Eur. monographs, Martindale, the US Pharmacopoeia (USP) and the 1st 
International Conference on Polymyxins held in Prato (Italy) in May 2013) identify other ratios, ranging 
from 2.36 to 2.67. 
The CHMP was of the opinion that given the established use of international units in the EU, the 
strength and dosing recommendations in the EU SmPC and PL for CMS should continue to be 
expressed in international units, as any potential switch in strength expression risks causing confusion 
and potential administration errors even if accompanied by advice and educational material to 
stakeholders. However, the CHMP considered that the multiplicity of terms used is likely to lead to 
dosage and reporting errors and therefore decided to introduce a table indicating dose content 
conversions between CMS expressed in IU, CMS expressed in mg and CBA expressed in mg. Although 
only nominal and approximate, this table will raise awareness of the different ways of expressing dose 
and will be of relevance to prescribers who obtain additional information from medical literature or 
publications using different standards or ways of expressing dose or strength. 
CMS conversion table 
Potency 
IU 
12,500 
150,000 
1,000,000 
4,500,000 
9,000,000 
≈ mg CBA 
0.4 
5 
34 
150 
300 
≈ mass of 
CMS (mg)* 
1 
12 
80 
360 
720 
* 
Nominal potency of the drug substance = 12,500 IU/mg 
2.3.  Synthesis, manufacturing and structure 
Polymyxins are a group of naturally occurring multi-component cyclic polypeptide antibiotics produced 
by selected strains of the spore-forming soil bacterium Paenibacillus polymyxa (formerly known as 
Bacillus polymyxa var. colistinus). Five major, chemically distinct members of the group have been 
recognised and are designated as polymyxins A, B, C, D and E, of which B and E are available 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
commercially and approved in the EU. Polymyxin B is approved for topical use but only  polymyxin E, 
usually referred to as colistin, is approved for oral, parenteral and inhalation use and is therefore the 
focus of this procedure. The fermentation process by which colistin is produced results in a complex 
mixture consisting of a family of similar compounds; two major polymyxins: E1 and E2, in addition to 
at least 30 minor polymyxins and related substances including polymyxins E1-I, E3 and E1-7MOA, 
which all have very similar physicochemical properties and only minor structural differences. Two 
forms of colistin are used clinically: colistin sulfate (colistin) for oral administration and its prodrug, 
colistimethate sodium (CMS), which may be considered inactive, for parenteral and inhalation use. 
Because colistin has a relatively high level of toxicity associated with parenteral administration, a 
process to manufacture the far-better tolerated product CMS for parenteral and inhalation use was 
developed.  
Manufacturing the CMS active substance 
The CHMP reviewed a description of the CMS manufacturing process, including information on the 
steps, specifications, purity tests and in-process controls. Colistin possesses five free primary amine 
groups, which can be substituted with methansulfonate. This is achieved through the reaction of 
colistin with formaldehyde and sodium hydrogen sulfite. The reaction is referred to as sulfomethylation 
and results in the formation of CMS. The derivatisation process as described in the literature is a two-
stage synthesis process, resulting in the generation of methate and methansulfonate groups 
respectively. Although the USP monograph makes the assumption that all five amine groups are 
converted to form CMS, the available data indicates that the derivatisation process may not be 
complete and that the degree of sulfomethylation is variable and results in five progressively 
sulfomethylated derivatives. This is confirmed by electrophoresis data, which show a single spot for 
colistin, but five or more spots for CMS. The recovery and purification steps consist of extraction and 
precipitation of colistin, or of impurities, with the purpose of eliminating or strongly reducing 
impurities, so that the final CMS active substance complies with Ph. Eur. specifications for identity, 
potency, quality and purity. 
The CHMP reviewed the critical process parameters and means to satisfactorily reduce variability. The 
MAH provided further information on the production steps involved to ensure consistent quality of the 
CMS active substance. As CMS is derived by sulfomethylation from a starting material consisting of a 
mixture of polymyxins, the control of the sulfomethylation level of the subcomponents is regarded as 
critical quality attribute. The degree of sulfomethylation is controlled by the amount of colistin to the 
reagent formaldehyde bisulfite ratio. The reagent-to-substrate ratio is the critical parameter in this 
process and the optimal ratio has been determined using design of experiments. Based on the assay of 
the colistin base starting material and the reagent-colistin ratio mentioned above, a certain amount of 
colistin base is added to the reaction mixture. In order to reduce variability due to a mismatch in 
reagent to substrate ratio, the reagent amount to be applied in a CMS production batch is 
automatically calculated from the assay amount of colistin in a dedicated spreadsheet. This assay is 
exclusively measured for CMS purposes. The colistin base dissolves as it is protonated by the acidified 
reagent solution, and the sulfomethylation starts. After some time, the required degree of 
sulfomethylation is reached. Since the CMS reaction mixture is self-buffered, a mismatch in reagent to 
substrate ratio will be indicated by the final pH measurement of the reaction mixture. The final reaction 
mixture is also subjected to a silicotungstic test to secure a minimum degree of sulfomethylation. The 
CMS product specification indirectly limits the allowable degree of sulfomethylation by the “total sulfite” 
measurement, in which the sulfomethyl groups are cleaved off the CMS, degraded to sulfite and 
measured by an iodometric titration. 
Regarding the reaction parameters, the manufacturer clarified that the reaction temperature is not 
critical for the degree of sulfomethylation, but should still be within a defined range so as to ensure 
that reaction occurs and that starting material is not degraded. The pH of the reaction mixture has 
some impact on the reaction outcome, but this is controlled through the correct preparation of the 
formaldehyde bisulfite reagent solution. The CHMP considered the critical steps such as the degree of 
sulfomethylation to be adequately controlled by complying with the defined suitable colistin/reagent 
(formaldehyde bisulfite) ratio and pH. The information provided on the control of the degree of 
sulfomethylation was considered satisfactory and the CHMP was of the view that the manufacturers 
have sufficient experience of the process. The CHMP considered that a general production statement 
for inclusion in a Ph. Eur. monograph would not be appropriate. The suitability of a source of CMS can 
only be addressed on a case by case basis during assessment. 
It was noted that using the molecular weight of colistin and assuming that all five amine groups are 
always included in the reaction, 1M of colistin base would convert to 1M of its methylsulfonic base 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
derivative. If so, 1162g of polymyxin E (average weight of polymyxin E1/E2), plus the weight of five 
sodium methylsulfonic components (116g) would yield 1742g of CMS derivative sodium salt. This is 
equivalent to 1g colistin base yielding 1.5g CMS, which can in turn be expressed as 2.4mg CMS from 
1.5mg colistin base. This diverges from the previously established ratio based on potency of 2.4mg 
CMS being equivalent to 1mg colistin. Furthermore, in cases of incomplete derivatisation due to an 
incomplete sulfomethylation reaction (i.e. less than all five amine groups being derivatised), this 
divergence would increase. As a result, there is a discrepancy in equivalence between CMS and colistin 
depending on whether the calculation is based on chemistry or potency.  
It is not possible to obtain a clear stoichiometric relationship between CMS and colistin, however from 
the  data  reviewed,  including  MAH  submissions,  it  was  clarified  that  the  definition  of  the  International 
Unit of activity is the same for both colistin and CMS, i.e. that one IU of potency of CMS is equivalent 
to one IU of potency of colistin. However, it was not considered to be of practical value to reflect this in 
the product information, as the potency per mg is not equivalent between CMS and colistin and in the 
case of CMS, because the activity is only available on total hydrolysis of CMS to colistin. Although this 
may be the case in vitro, the in vivo conversion is only approximately 30%, with the remaining 70% of 
CMS being excreted intact in the urine.  
Structure of CMS 
The CHMP noted that conflicting evidence exists regarding the structure of CMS. A number of published 
data sources e.g. the USP monograph and British Journal of Pharmacology (1964), 23, 552-574), state 
that the structure of CMS involves the mono-sulfomethylation of the amine groups, however data 
provided by the manufacturer refers to bis-sulfonylmethyl groups for the amine groups. The available 
data was reviewed and it was noted that the analytical methods specified in the pharmacopoeial 
monograph have been used since the 60s and do not reveal the multiplicity and actual structure of 
CMS. 
Barnett  et  al. 1   further  states  that  “Electrophoresis  shows  that  the  derivatives  are  composite,  the 
components corresponding to mono- to pentasulfomethyl polymyxin”. It is a fact that electrophoresis 
differentiates  between  sizes,  binding  and  relative  charges  but  cannot  identify  an  exact  molecular 
structure.  The  observation  is,  however,  equally  explainable  by  the  presence  of  components 
corresponding  to  bis-sulfomethylated  polymyxin.  Barnett  et  al.  based  much  of  the  theory  behind  the 
mono-sulfomethylation  of  the  amine  functionalities on  a  publication  by  Schiff  in  18662.  However,  the 
original  Schiff  publication  basically  deals  with  the  reaction  of  alkyl  and  aryl  aldehydes  (formaldehyde 
was not included in this study) with aryl amines in the presence of sulfite, where the reaction patterns 
are  different.  A  SciFinder  search  revealed  that  Barnett  et  al.  was  cited  11  times  between  2012  and 
2014 in large reviews by well-established groups doing research in the polymyxin area, which suggests 
that  the  Barnett  et  al.  publication  is  the  origin  of  the  “established  knowledge  of  CMS”.  In  contrast,  a 
1969  publication  by  McMillan  and  Pattison 3  studied  the  transformation  of  CMS  in  vitro  by  exploring 
aqueous solutions of the material, and they suggested that neutral solutions of CMS comprise complex 
equilibria  in  which  individual  molecules  are  substituted  by  varying  numbers  of  methanesulfonate  or 
hydroxymethyl  groups,  possibly  as  many  as  10,  but  three  or  four  of  these  species  more  highly 
favoured than the rest. By using iodometric titration methods, they concluded on di-substitution of the 
amine groups, as supported by electrophoreogram data. This publication received only little attention 
with regard to structure elucidation of CMS and has only been cited 6 times according to SciFinder. 
As most research groups within this field are interested in the dosing regimen of CMS and polymyxins 
and  in  the  development  of  new  polymyxin  derivatives,  the  well-established  structure  proposed  by 
Barnett  et  al.  has  never  been  questioned.  A  SciFinder  search  for  the  alkyl  bis-sulfomethyl  amine 
fragment  –CH2N(CH2SO3)2  returns  158  hits,  including  several  for  recently  developed,  commercially 
available  compounds.  The  manufacturer  stated  that  this  is  supported  by  own  data  where  mono-
components  from  the  sulfomethylated  polymyxin  E1  mixture  were  isolated  by  preparative  HPLC. 
Structure elucidation of 8, 6 and 4 sulfomethylated polymyxin E1 components was performed by way 
of NMR, LC-MS and direct infusion MS. None of the amine groups were found to be mono-substituted 
1 Barnett M, Bushby SRM, Wilkinson S, Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964), 23, 552-574. Sodium Sulfomethyl derivatives of 
Polymyxins 
2 Schiff H, Justus Liebigs Annalen der Chemie, (1866), 140,1, 92-137, Eine neue Reihe Organischen Diamine, 
3 McMillan FH and Pattison IC, Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences, (1969), 58, 6, 730-737. Sodium colistimethate I: 
Dissociations of aminomethanesulfonates in aqueous solution 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
and it was therefore concluded that the current established structure of CMS as suggested by Barnett 
et al. is very likely incorrect. 
The CHMP agreed that the structure of CMS consists of five primary amine groups which are either 
non-substituted or bis-sulfomethylated. The current accepted structure of CMS, as mono-
sulfomethylated derivatives, is therefore incorrect and the CHMP was of the opinion that this important 
information should be made widely known by updating the Ph. Eur. monograph accordingly. 
Consideration should also be given to informing the US Pharmacopoeia and international competent 
authorities.  
The following recommendation is made to EDQM for revision of the CMS monograph: 
The  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  colistimethate  sodium  (CMS)  should  be  revised  to  reflect  the 
following current understanding of the substance’s molecular structure: 
“Colistimethate sodium is prepared from colistin by the action of formaldehyde and sodium 
hydrogen sulfite, to form a mixture of bis-sulfomethyl primary amine derivatives.” 
CMS manufacture - controls and characterisation, degree of sulfomethylation 
The composition and purity of the colistin starting material used to manufacture CMS are considered 
critical quality attributes. The composition of colistin starting material should be equivalent or better 
than that described in the Ph. Eur. monograph for colistin sulfate. Data from manufactured batches of 
colistin starting material was provided, including data on composition, related substances and potency. 
The CHMP noted that each batch is controlled before its introduction into CMS production for 
compliance with relevant and appropriate quality requirements in accordance with the current colistin 
sulfate Ph. Eur. monograph. The content of related substances and content of polymyxins (composition) 
is verified by an HPLC method and the biological potency is evaluated for each batch. The data showed 
that the two principal components E1 and E2 consistently made up more than 80% of the composition 
in every batch and that the composition of these two components and the other main components did 
not vary by more than three times the standard deviation. Thus the manufacturing process for CMS 
was considered well controlled. However, the available data indicates that polymyxin E1 is present in 
significantly greater amounts than polymyxin E2 in the active substance produced by Xellia but these 
are not directly controlled in the monograph. Having compared the current monograph limits with the 
obtained results, the CHMP was of the view that the current monograph does not reflect process 
capability and that it would be appropriate to control the quantitative composition of each of these 
components. New limits for additional colistin subcomponents and tightened limits for some of the 
components based on historical data should be provided to the EDQM to support the already ongoing 
revision of the colistin monograph. Once the monograph has been revised, the quality specification for 
colistin starting material should be updated to reflect the revised Ph. Eur. monograph for colistin. 
Each individual colistin component (e.g. polymyxin E1, E2, E3, E1-I, or E1-7 MOA) will generate a set 
of CMS sub-components identifiable by HPLC peaks. The HPLC method is based on the isolation of the 
two major sub-components of colistin (E1 and E2) at high purity (>90%) using preparative 
chromatography followed by conversion to E1-CMS and E2-CMS by sulfomethylation. Due to the low 
amount of the other sub-components, identification is more difficult and these are therefore 
categorised as related impurities. The SAX column method4 presented in literature is not validated and 
is not considered suitable for the analysis of CMS, mainly because it is not capable of providing any 
qualitative or quantitative data and the sample handling does not provide stable samples.  
The proposed HPLC method evaluates three important quality parameters of CMS; purity, composition 
and determination of related impurities. Purity and related impurities is mainly related to the starting 
material, colistin base, where variations in the starting material will have a direct effect on the purity of 
CMS. High purity CMS will have a high amount of polymyxin E1 and E2 sulfomethylated derivatives and 
low amounts of the other related polymyxin derivatives. Prior to synthesis of CMS, the purity and 
composition of the colistin base is tested using the Ph. Eur. method for colistin sulfate. The composition 
is related to the starting material (ratio of polymyxin E1/polymyxin E2 and related substances) and the 
CMS manufacturing process. The influence of the process parameters to the HPLC composition a design 
space for the product has been investigated and critical process parameters have been identified; their 
effect on the sulfomethylation is known. Evaluation of the composition is determined by analysing the 
content of specified peaks. 
4 Li et al., Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2003 April; 47(4): 1364-1370 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
It was determined that variations in the critical process parameters have a direct influence on the area 
percentage of the peaks, hence if they are not within the set limits, the product will contain an 
incorrect number of sulfomethyl groups which in turn may affect the in vivo pharmacokinetics and 
toxicity. The high number of peaks in the CMS chromatogram makes it close to impossible to integrate 
peaks below 0.05%. There are over 100 peaks with an area percentage above 0.05% and 
approximately 40 peaks above 0.5%. All peaks above 0.05% are included in the evaluation although 
an identity (impurity, CMS E1 or E2) is only assigned to peaks above 0.5%. Peaks above 0.5% with 
unknown origin are called related impurities. Hence, the entire baseline is integrated. Independent of 
the origin, the sum in area% of all peaks between 0.05% and 0.5% (approximately 15%) is subtracted 
from the total area% (100%). Additionally, all related impurities are subtracted from the purity (max 
5%). This gives a purity of around 80%.  
It is generally accepted that CMS does not possess antimicrobial activity itself but is instead hydrolysed 
to form the active antibiotic colistin. The rate of hydrolysis to colistin varies depending on how many of 
the five amine groups are sulfomethylated. This can potentially lead to variations/delays in achieving 
therapeutic drug concentrations because the time to achieving active colistin concentrations will differ 
between a colistin molecule bis-sulfomethylated once and a colistin molecule bis-sulfomethylated five 
times. Variations in the degree of sulfomethylation caused by different manufacturing processes could 
potentially give different rates of hydrolysis and lead to significant variation in the time to peak colistin 
concentrations and significant differences in colistin area under the concentration-time curve (AUC). 
This was confirmed by He et al., 20135 who demonstrated that rats receiving the same dose of CMS 
produced by four different manufacturers achieved difference in time to peak colistin concentrations 
ranging from 45 to 108 minutes with up to a 2-fold difference in colistin AUC. This is further 
complicated by the fact that CMS, unlike colistin, is primarily cleared renally. As a result, in patients 
with unimpaired renal function, the risk of drug clearance before achieving systemic colistin 
concentrations raises significant concerns and this needs to be taken into account in the dosing 
regimens. However variation in the rate of hydrolysis caused by variation in the degree of 
sulfomethylation could seriously affect these calculations and thus complicate dosing protocols for CMS. 
There is therefore the possibility of a significant variation in the ratio of the different sulfomethylated 
polymyxins caused either by the different degrees of sulfomethylation or by different ratios of the 
initial polymyxin components. This can only be addressed by ensuring consistency in the ratio of the 
sulfomethylated polymyxins contained in the marketed CMS, by having a CMS specification where the 
ratio of polymyxins and degree of sulfomethylation is controlled. A method proposal has been 
submitted by the manufacturer. 
In developing this method, the E1 and E2 components of colistin were isolated and derivatised into the 
respective CMS mono-components. A comparison of the HPLC profiles for the two components reveals 
that the sulfomethyl groups are distributed in the same way. Hence, the distribution of sulfomethyl 
groups is the same, independently of the polymyxin. It is therefore considered that the structural 
characterisation of one of the sulfomethylated polymyxins is sufficient to understand the overall 
sulfomethylation. The isolation and synthesis of specific CMS E1 peaks (components) followed by 
structural characterisation with NMR, MS, LC-MS and degradation studies have revealed a pattern in 
the CMS profile, with groups of peaks attributable to 10, 8, 6, 4 and 2 substituents for CMS E1 and to 
8, 6 and 4 substituents for CMS E2. Because substituted amine groups are always bis-sulfomethylated, 
CMS contains up to ten substituents, in multiples of two. The variance within each group (8, 6 and 4 
substitutions) shows that there are preferences in the position of substitution, otherwise all peaks 
within one group would be of the same size. Additionally, the structural elucidation work shows that 
there are free amine groups in CMS and that there are no mono-sulfomethylated amine groups. This 
makes it possible to estimate the degree of sulfomethylation of intact CMS.  
In vitro degradation of CMS shows that the starting degree of sulfomethylation may play an important 
role in the release of colistin. Analysis using a modified HPLC method (LC-MS compatible) detected no 
formation of colistin for the upper sample (starting average degree of sulfomethylation is 10) but 
around 6% of free colistin for the lower sample (starting average degree of sulfomethylation around 6) 
after 20 hours of degradation. This suggests that no activity would be expected for the upper sample 
after 20 hours whereas the lower sample would show activity after 5 hours. Thus, the degree of 
5 He H, Li JC, Nation RL, et al. Pharmacokinetics of four different brands of colistimethate and formed colistin in rats. 
J Antimicrob Chemother 2013;68:2311–7. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
sulfomethylation for each individual API appears to play a significant role in the bioactivity (in vivo 
performance) of the product and this is characterised and controlled by the HPLC method.  
Xellia submitted a composition analysis method using HPLC to evaluate interdependent key 
components for the, 8, 6, and 4 substituted components with limits including average, maximum, 
minimum and standard deviation for each of the six peaks based on data from 111 tested API batches. 
Only six peaks are proposed to be characterised – three for each polymyxin E1 and E2 derivative, with 
different degree of sulfomethylation (tetra-bis, tri-bis and di-bis). Due to the unstable nature of penta-
bis-sulfomethylated CMS (10 sulfomethyl substituents) and its elution close to the void peak, 
evaluation of this peak is not recommended. Because the peaks are interdependent (for example, a 
reduced amount of the penta-sulfomethylated polymyxin E1 should result in an increase in the lower 
sulfomethylated peaks), the evaluation of the six selected peaks in the chromatogram will provide 
sufficient information on the CMS quality and its correlation to the critical process parameters and 
stability. In addition, any change in the sulfomethylation (whether through incorrect manufacturing or 
degradation of the sample) will be detectable using these peaks.  
The CHMP recommended that calculation of purity, total related impurities and largest related impurity 
is kept in the updated monograph since this is to a large extent related to the colistin starting material. 
The CHMP agreed that the degree of sulfomethylation and the composition of the active compounds 
(polymyxin E components) are critical quality attributes that need to be adequately controlled in the Ph. 
Eur. monograph in order to ensure the safety and efficacy of polymyxin-based products. The current 
Ph. Eur. monograph only indirectly controls the degree of sulfomethylation through the Total Sulfite 
test – which determines the available sulfite, liberated from CMS by hydrolysis, by iodiometric titration 
and does not control the composition of polymyxin components. 
The degree of sulfomethylation and the composition of the active compounds are, in turn, dependent 
on  the  composition  of  the  colistin  starting  material  and  the  method  and  control  strategy  of  the 
synthesis of CMS from colistin. This can be addressed, in part, by ensuring that the starting material 
complies with Ph. Eur. requirements and by ensuring tighter controls of the colistin sulfate composition 
in its Ph. Eur. monograph. It was noted that composition data for colistin sulfate was only provided by 
the manufacturer Xellia and that it is not known whether CMS obtained from colistin starting material 
with a different polymyxin composition (but still compliant with the colistin sulfate Ph. Eur. monograph 
with  respect  to  composition)  would  be  equivalent  in  safety  and  efficacy  to  the  CMS  synthesised  by 
Xellia, which has been qualified by use for many years. It was therefore acknowledged that problems 
may  arise  if  other  suppliers  produce  active  substances  using  different  fermentation  processes,  with 
resulting  differences  in  composition  and  the  proportion  of  polymyxin  E1  and  E2  components  as  only 
colistin  starting  material  with  a  similar  polymyxin  composition  to  that  sourced  from  Xellia  is  likely  to 
comply with the chromatographic test determining the degree of sulfomethylation. A requirement with 
respect to colistin starting material would need to take this into account. 
The following recommendation is made to EDQM for revision of the CMS monograph: 
The Ph. Eur. monograph should include a statement that the composition and purity of 
colistin starting material, used in the synthesis of CMS, should be equivalent to that 
described in the Ph. Eur. monograph for colistin sulfate. 
The  composition  of  polymyxin  E1  and  E2  in  colistin  starting  material,  necessary  to  comply 
with  the  proposed  chromatographic  test  for  determining  the  degree  of  sulfomethylation, 
should also be stated. 
And the following recommendation is made to EDQM for revision of the colistin sulfate monograph: 
Polymyxin E1 and polymyxin E2 are the principle components of colistin sulfate, but are not 
directly controlled in the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
Evidence from a European supplier indicates that polymyxin E1 is present is significantly 
greater amounts than polymyxin E2. It would therefore be appropriate that the quantitative 
composition of each of these components is controlled. 
This recommendation is also necessary to ensure consistent quality of the colistimethate 
sodium (CMS) active substance, since colistin is used as a starting material for CMS 
manufacture. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is acknowledged that this may be problematic if different suppliers exist, using different 
fermentation  processes,  giving  rise  to  a  diverse  proportion  of  polymyxin  E1  and  E2 
components. 
The Ph. Eur. monograph should also provide some assurance of a consistent impurity profile. 
It is recommended that known single impurities are identified (at least by relative retention 
time). 
The CHMP reviewed historical data on the composition of the CMS subcomponents in products for 
injection and noted that the method for determination of CMS composition was only developed and 
validated in 2011. A total of 19 batches of the finished product were analysed (93 individual analysis) 
with regard to composition and microbiological assay results. It was noted that according to the 
Guideline on setting specification for related impurities in antibiotics (EMA/CHMP/QWP/199250/2009 
corr.), very complex impurity profiles such as for CMS, for which the identification of individual peaks is 
impossible, should at least be characterised by a descriptive specification based on a sufficient high 
number of manufactured batches. CMS is a complex substance of fermentation origin and the 
chromatogram of the active substance has been shown to contain over 100 or over 40 different peaks 
with an area percentage over 0.05% or 0.50%, respectively. As a result, the structural elucidation of 
the peaks detected in the obtained chromatogram has only partly been successful; nevertheless, the 
method was confirmed to be stability indicating and was validated. Due to the complex chromatogram, 
the setting of appropriate specifications for the chromatographic profile, i.e. the specification that 
would appropriately reflect and control the drug quality in terms of substance composition, purity and 
related impurities, was carefully evaluated. 
From the chromatographs and information provided, the degree of sulfomethylation is characterised by 
either  complete  (all  5  primary  amine  groups)  or  partial  (only  4,  3  or  2  primary  amine  groups)  bis-
sulfomethylation.  No  mono-sulfomethylated  components  have  been  identified,  the  amine  groups  are 
either bis-sulfomethylated or not sulfomethylated at all. The chromatographic system is such that the 
least sulfomethylated components have the longer retention times and each polymyxin subcomponent 
will  produce  one  peak  due  to  penta-sulfomethylated  polymyxin,  five  peaks  due  to  tetra-
sulfomethylated polymyxin and ten peaks due to tri sulfomethylated polymyxin as well as other minor 
peaks due to di and mono sulfomethylated polymyxin. This explains the complex composition of CMS 
and  the  observed  multi-peak  chromatograms  and  could  constitute  a  suitable  rationale  for  peak 
selection and control using a chromatographic test for CMS. 
In  establishing  new  monograph  tests,  limits  are  usually  set  empirically  from  data  provided  by  a 
preferably wide number of active substance manufacturers, whose active substance is used in products 
authorised  and  marketed  in  the  EU.  This  is  not  the  case  for  CMS,  as  discussed  previously.  From  the 
data  provided,  Xellia’s  CMS  consists  predominantly  of  polymyxin  E1  derivatives.  The  concerns 
associated with defining a proposal for chromatographic characterisation based on data  from a single 
manufacturer, which may result in unnecessarily tight specification, were discussed with the QWP. The 
QWP  was  of  the  view  that  although  revisions  of  monographs  should  ideally  be  based  on  data  from 
several manufacturers, they also need to be based on data and in this particular, the inclusion in the 
monograph of a chromatographic method to characterise the CMS components, based on the method 
developed by Xellia, was therefore accepted. 
As  previously  described,  Xellia’s  chromatographic  method  only  characterised  six  chromatographic 
peaks, three for each polymyxin E1 and E2 derivative. Each selected peak is a marker representative 
for tetra, tri or di-substituted derivatives. The limits proposed are based on historical batch data, with 
range set by mean ± 3S.D. The CHMP considered the revised proposal to be acceptable. 
The following recommendation is made to EDQM for revision of the CMS monograph: 
A chromatographic test should be included to characterise and control the degree of 
sulfomethylation.  
Upper and lower limits should be set for representative peaks of the 4, 3 and 2 substituted 
bis-sulfomethylated  derivatives  of  the  principle  polymyxin  constituents,  polymyxin  E1  and 
polymyxin E2, based on available historical batch data. 
Peaks should be chemically identified and characterised by chromatographic retention time. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  method  of  Xellia,  the  sole  method  proposed  during  the  referral  procedure,  should  be 
suitable. 
Effect of subcomponents 
The CHMP noted an investigation of the effect of CMS composition (sub-component ratios) on the 
safety and efficacy of colistin and CMS. The efficacy of the polymyxin E1 and E2 mono-components 
against a range of sensitive A. baumannii and multi-drug resistant P. aeruginosa and K. pneumonia 
strains was measured and found to be comparable to the colistin sulfate active substance. Likewise the 
efficacy of the colistin E1 and E2 mono-components was comparable to the equivalent subcomponents 
of the sulfomethylated CMS active substance. An in vivo study of the efficacy of CMS E1, CMS E2 and 
colistin against P. aeruginosa infections in neutropenic mice showed significant efficacy for all three 
entities when dosed at the equivalent to a normal therapeutic dose. As the E1 and E2 components 
represent on average > 75% of the content of the active components within colistin or CMS, it is not 
expected that there would be any variation in the antibacterial efficacy between different batches of 
CMS. Based on this limited evidence, the CHMP concluded that the efficacy of the E1 and E2 mono-
components as determined by the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values are comparable to 
that of the colistin sulfate and the sulfomethylated CMS. 
Regarding safety, the limited post-marketing safety data did not reveal any effect of the variance in 
the subcomponent ratios on safety and efficacy. However, it was noted that the exact polymyxin 
component ratio and impurity profile of CMS produced from colistin is likely to vary depending on the 
strain of P. polymyxa used and this will result in potential variability in the toxicity of CMS depending 
on the source of colistin6,7. As a result, the safety of the Xellia CMS supported by years of product 
consistency cannot be extrapolated to CMS products produced by other manufacturers. Mohamed et al., 
20128 have shown that polymyxin E1 and E2 have different protein binding in the blood which is 
caused by differences in the fatty acid side chain which in turn influences lipophilicity. Brink et al., 
20149 also discuss the influence of polymyxin E composition and how it may affect heteroresistance 
(variable resistance profiles within a specific population of organisms) and cross-resistance. Hence, 
there is a great risk that variance in the polymyxin E composition will affect toxicity and bioactivity of 
CMS. 
Free Colistin in CMS 
The CHMP was of the opinion that a test for free colistin should be retained in the Ph. Eur. monograph 
and  should  be  included  in  the  CMS  finished  product  specification.  The  current  Ph.  Eur.  monograph 
includes a semi quantitative “wet chemistry” limit test for free colistin in CMS, based upon the degree 
of  opalescence  after  addition  of  silicotungstic  acid. This  test  is  well  established  and  is  used  to  ensure 
completion of the synthesis i.e. absence of starting material in the final active substance. This test is 
also of value for finished product solution in-use stability assessment to show if degradation of CMS by 
hydrolysis  has  occurred.  However,  this  test  has  not  been  changed  since  first  publication  of  the 
monograph, and an alternative and more sensitive chromatographic method has been identified during 
this procedure. The CMS monograph test for free colistin should therefore be updated accordingly. 
The following recommendation is made to EDQM for revision of the CMS monograph: 
The degree of sulfomethylation and limit test for free colistin are considered critical quality 
attributes in CMS active substance and should be retained in the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
These tests should be reviewed to take into account current analytical technology to replace 
the qualitative limit test for free colistin and the titrimetric quantitative test for total sulfite, 
6 Barnett M, Bushby SRM, Wilkinson S, Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964), 23, 552-574.Sodium Sulfomethyl derivatives of 
Polymyxins 
7 Li J, Nation RL, Milne RW, Turnidge JD, Coulthard K International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents 25 (2005) 11–
25 ;Evaluation of colistin as an agent against multi-resistant Gram-negative bacteria 
8 Mohamed AF, Karaiskos I, Plachouras D, et al. Application of a Loading Dose of Colistin Methanesulfonate in 
Critically Ill Patients: Population Pharmacokinetics, Protein Binding, and Prediction of Bacterial Kill. Antimicrobial 
Agents and Chemotherapy. 2012;56(8):4241-4249. doi:10.1128/AAC.06426-11. 
9 Brink AJ, Richards GA, Colombo G, Bortolotti F, Colombo P, Jehl F. Multicomponent antibiotic substances produced 
by fermentation: implications for regulatory authorities, critically ill patients and generics. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 
2014 Jan;43(1):1-6. doi:0.1016/j.ijantimicag.2013.06.013. Epub 2013 Aug 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
since both these tests are essentially unchanged since the Ph. Eur. monograph was first 
elaborated in the 1960s. 
With  respect  to  the  test  for  free  colistin,  the  published  chromatographic  analytical  method 
by Wallace et. al., 2008, for free colistin in the presence of CMS, which employs pre-column 
derivatisation, could be suitable for adaption for use in the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
Rate and extent of CMS hydrolysis to colistin 
The CHMP noted that the conversion of CMS to colistin can occur both in vitro in aqueous solutions as 
well as in vivo in human plasma after administration. CMS exhibits low protein binding and is partially 
hydrolysed into colistin together with a complex, undefined mixture of sulfomethylated colistin 
derivatives. In aqueous solutions, the mixture is even more complex than in vivo. The available data 
indicates that in vitro conversion is temperature and concentration dependent, with higher conversion 
rates at lower, less clinically relevant, concentrations. The known conversion of the reconstituted 
finished product in vitro has potential implications for toxicity, as colistin is less safe and less well 
tolerated than CMS. While the hydrolysis of CMS may be complete in the in vitro bio-analytical assay 
for potency, it appears that conversion in vivo is only approximately 30%, with the majority (60-70%) 
being excreted intact in the urine. The current microbiological potency testing of CMS in vitro is 
therefore not considered to be a suitable control method. 
Bergen et al.10 demonstrated that CMS possesses no or little antimicrobial activity and that microbial 
assays are not useful in assaying biological samples. The authors also discuss the problem with the 
handling of CMS samples where it is difficult to determine whether the amount of colistin in a sample is 
caused by degradation or by the sample pre-treatment. The Ph. Eur. monograph determines potency 
by means of the microbiological assay of antibiotics, using the diffusion method, following incubation, 
for at least 18 hours, at pH 7.3 and a temperature between 35-39 °C. It is known that CMS is an 
inactive pro-drug, which converts to the active colistin by hydrolysis at uneven rates in vitro, 
particularly in aqueous environments at 37 °C. As no correlation between the microbiological assay and 
composition as analysed by HPLC has been established, the microbiological assay and determination of 
potency is dependent upon both the reference standard and the test sample undergoing hydrolysis at 
the same rate and extent during the incubation period. The use and the reliability of a microbiological 
assay to determine colistin levels was therefore questioned because CMS is the inactive prodrug of 
colistin and it is the colistin formed from CMS during incubation that actually provides the antimicrobial 
activity. Bioassay results may therefore be misleading, since some of the CMS present in the biological 
fluid will be converted to colistin during the 24 hour incubation period of the test and the microbial 
assay for CMS instead becomes a measurement of the formed colistin. The in vitro microbiological 
potency test was therefore not considered satisfactorily stability indicating. 
The literature establishes that the formation of colistin in solution is dependent on factors such as 
concentration, time after dissolution, pH, media, and temperature. All these factors are fixed in the 
preparation of the finished product. Thus, if CMS is prepared in vial and diluted according to the SmPC 
there is negligible formation of colistin and the rate and amount of formed colistin should be constant. 
One factor that influences the rate and thereby also the amount of liberated colistin is the degree of 
sulfomethylation of the starting material, which is controlled by HPLC. If batch to batch consistency is 
achieved during product manufacturing, little to no difference would be seen in the rate and amount of 
formed colistin. Hence, determination of the rate and formation of colistin should be investigated and 
documented in the finished product development. The suggested HPLC method ensures a constant 
degree of sulfomethylation with a constant microbial activity. 
The CHMP therefore considered that the rate and extent of release of colistin from CMS by hydrolysis 
are critical quality attributes and that a clear understanding of these is essential for defining the in 
vitro potency. However, the CHMP acknowledged that there are practical obstacles in developing an in 
vitro test under bio-relevant conditions, in particular if colistin content is determined 
chromatographically, given the complexity of both CMS and colistin chromatograms. Although the test 
would be complementary to the proposed additional chromatographic tests to determine the degree of 
sulfomethylation and free colistin, it is likely that it would only be developed by a pharmacopoeial body 
10 Bergen PJ, Li J, Rayner CR, Nation RL. Colistin Methanesulfonate Is an Inactive Prodrug of Colistin against 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy. 2006;50(6):1953-1958. 
doi:10.1128/AAC.00035-06. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
and not by industry. The CHMP therefore recommended to EDQM that an in vitro test to determine the 
rate and extent of hydrolysis of CMS to colistin, under bio-relevant conditions should be proposed for 
inclusion in the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
Hydrolysis during finished product manufacture and the impact of lyophilisation 
Powders for solution for injection or inhalation CMS finished product do not contain excipients. Some 
products are prepared by aseptic assembly of the sterile active substance. The finished product usually 
has a shelf-life of 3 years and is known to be stable as a dry powder. Therefore, the efficacy and safety 
of the finished product is principally determined by the quality of the active substance and the 
recommendations discussed above for the active substance have been made to minimise variability of 
the active substance and thus ensure consistent quality of the finished product. 
However, for finished products manufactured using non-sterile CMS, with dissolution, filter sterilisation 
and subsequent lyophilisation, there is a risk of hydrolysis of CMS during manufacture, resulting in a 
decrease in the degree of sulfomethylation of the active substance and the possible release of the 
more toxic colistin. This should be addressed by appropriate risk assessment and risk mitigation steps. 
Such a change would not affect necessarily potency determination of the finished product, because the 
potency test is not considered a satisfactory stability indicating method, but the safety of the finished 
product may be adversely affected. 
The CHMP therefore investigated the potential impact of lyophilisation on the chromatographic pattern 
of the finished product. Some products are manufactured by dosing sterile lyophilised CMS powder 
directly into vials that are subsequently sealed. Other products are manufactured by dosing CMS 
suspended in an aqueous solution into a vial with subsequent lyophilisation and sealing. This powder is 
then solubilised again at the time of administration. This may result in additional hydrolysis, which 
would be reflected in the HPLC profile. Having reviewed the available data, the CHMP considered it 
insufficient to determine whether the lyophilisation process affects the stability of the CMS product, as 
the analytical methods available were considered inadequate. The CHMP concluded that while many 
products are prepared by aseptic assembly, without additional lyophilisation and without any effect on 
the degree of sulfomethylation of the active substance, there is an increased risk of active substance 
degradation, with a change in the degree of sulfomethylation for products whose manufacture involves 
lyophilisation. Because the degree of sulfomethylation is a critical quality attribute, the CHMP 
recommended that the control strategy for CMS finished product should include a test to show that the 
degree of sulfomethylation is not affected by the manufacturing process. 
The following recommendation is made to the marketing authorisation holders: 
The in vitro microbiological potency test is not considered satisfactorily stability indicating. 
CMS active substance in finished products, on release and throughout the shelf-life of the 
finished product, should comply with the CMS Ph. Eur. monograph, in particular with respect 
to the degree of sulfomethylation and the limit test for colistin in the CMS Ph. Eur. 
monograph, unless otherwise qualified and justified. 
A test to monitor the rate and release of colistin, by hydrolysis, from CMS is also 
recommended. 
For finished products manufactured by lyophillisation, given the known instability of CMS by 
hydrolysis to colistin, the manufacturing process should be supported by a risk assessment 
and risk mitigation steps to minimize hydrolysis. 
2.4.  Stability 
The CHMP reviewed the stability of CMS active substance, in particular to assess whether any changes 
in the composition of CMS with a consequential impact on safety and efficacy could be identified. The 
CHMP noted that a method for analysing composition for stability control of the active substance was 
only recently implemented by the manufacturer and that no continuous control during shelf life is 
available. However, the analysis of samples from end-of-shelf life (5 years of stability) showed no 
deviation in composition, related impurities or sum of E1 and E2 compared to Ph. Eur. reference 
standards and recently manufactured batches. Moreover, the stability of the active substance may be 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluated by assessment of stability results obtained for the finished dosage form and stability data 
from three CMS active substance batches stored under approved conditions were provided for 
assessment. The CHMP considered that based on the data, the finished product remains stable at room 
conditions and storage was not expected to have any impact on safety and efficacy of the finished 
product. The CHMP also noted results from long-term stability testing which were within the required 
limits of the specification developed on the basis of the Ph. Eur. CMS monograph and were considered 
to support the declared 18-month re-test period when stored at up to 25 °C and protected from light 
and moisture. The CHMP therefore considered CMS to be stable when stored as a freeze dried product 
and controlled to the current Ph. Eur. specification. The consistency of the sub-fractions between 
batches was considered reassuring. No historical trend data was provided, but this was accepted, given 
that such testing is additional to current Ph. Eur. requirements. 
Regarding the stability of the reconstituted solution, the CHMP reviewed the results of an in-use 
stability test carried out with three batches of 1 MIU CMS powder for solution for injection or infusion. 
The vials were reconstituted with 5 ml of sterile water for injection or 0.9% saline solution and the 
obtained solution was stored at 5 °C for up to 24 hours. The E1-1 and E1-2 components decreased in 
all tested samples while the E1-6 and E1-7 components increased. It was concluded that early eluting 
peaks tend to decrease, while late eluting peaks tend to increase. However, all results were inside the 
proposed limits and it was therefore concluded that partial hydrolysis of CMS during 24 hours at 5 °C 
has no significant impact on safety and efficacy. Another test investigated the compatibility and 
stability of 1 MIU CMS powder for solution for injection, infusion and inhalation after dissolution in 
water for injection and in 0.9% saline solution. Extreme cases of the highest (500,000 IU/ml) and 
lowest (10,000 IU/ml) concentrations used in clinical practice were prepared and stored for 72 hours at 
2 oC - 8 oC and at 22 oC - 27 oC. The stability criterion was active substance content reduced by 5% (a 
solution in which the content is reduced by less than 5% is considered stable) and the results showed 
that chemical stability was retained for 3 days when stored at 2 oC – 8 oC (refrigerator) and at 25 oC. 
However, for microbiological reasons and in accordance with the CPMP/QWP/159/96 guideline, the 
storage time should not be longer than 24 hours at 2 oC – 8 oC (refrigerator), unless the vial contents 
were dissolved in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
While the data on the stability of CMS was considered reassuring, the CHMP noted that the amount of 
free colistin during in use reconstitution was not monitored. The CHMP therefore reviewed data on the 
conversion of CMS to free colistin in reconstituted suspensions and any evidence of safety concerns, 
including pain on injection. The conflicting data regarding the requirements for aqueous stability of 
CMS, depending on whether it is considered in the context of test conditions or in the context of 
therapeutic administration was considered to be due to a previously incomplete understanding of the 
nature of CMS solutions. This has been explored by Wallace et al., 201011,12 in a study to evaluate the 
extent of conversion of CMS to colistin in CMS pharmaceutical formulations under relevant conditions 
of storage and use, using an HPLC method and CMS sourced from the main EU manufacturer. Two 
commercial CMS formulations were investigated for stability with respect to colistin content. The CMS 
lyophilised powder for injection was stable (<0.1% of CMS present as colistin) for at least 20 weeks at 
4 °C and 25 °C at 60% relative humidity. Once reconstituted, stability appeared to be dependent on 
concentration. When reconstituted with 2 ml of water to a CMS concentration of 200 mg/ml for 
injection, it remained stable (<0.1% colistin formed) for at least 7 days at both 4 °C and 25 °C. When 
further diluted to 4 mg/ml in a glucose (5%) or saline (0.9%) infusion solution as directed, CMS 
showed evidence of hydrolysis after 48 hours, in a temperature-dependent manner (<4% colistin 
formed at 25°C compared to 0.3% colistin formed at 4 °C). The solution for inhalation formulation 
(77.5 mg/ml), was stable at 4 °C and 25 °C for at least 12 months, as determined based on colistin 
content (<0.1%).  
Wallace et al. characterised the self-assembly behaviour of both colistin and CMS in solution. In 
addition, the authors investigated whether micellisation could be a possible mechanism for the 
observed concentration-dependent stability of CMS. The degradation of CMS in solution over time was 
assessed by measuring the extent of colistin formation. CMS solutions were prepared at 0.052, 0.52, 
5.2 and 52 mM in 0.9% (154 mM) saline solution. The authors considered that the marked change in 
the observed rates of CMS conversion to colistin between 0.52 and 5.2 mM is entirely consistent with 
the critical micelle concentrations (CMC) of 3.5 mM for CMS, as determined by light scattering. Based 
11 Wallace S, Li J, Rayner C, Coulthard K, Nation R. 2008. Stability of colistin methanesulfonate in pharmaceutical 
products and solutions for administration to patients. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 52:3047–3051 
12 Wallace, S. J., Li, J., Nation, R. L., Prankerd, R. J., Velkov, T., & Boyd, B. J. (2010). Self-assembly behaviour of 
colistin and its prodrug colistin methanesulfonate: implications for solution stability and solubilisation. Phys Chem 
B., 114(14): 4836–4840. doi:10.1021/jp100458x. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
upon this observation, the micellisation of CMS would appear to afford some protection of the labile 
sulfomethyl groups from degradation. Assuming that micellisation is driven by attractions between the 
flexible fatty acid tails of CMS, the anionic, susceptible sulfomethyl groups would be orientated towards 
the exterior surface of the micelle. Therefore, the hydrolysis of susceptible sulfomethyl groups 
arranged within a micelle can be slower than that of the monomer dispersed in the bulk. The authors 
concluded that rapid conversion of CMS to colistin occurs below the CMC (60% over 48 h), while 
conversion above the CMC is less than 1%, in a 0.9% saline solution at 25ºC. The authors calculated 
the CMC for CMS to be 3.5 milimolar (mM). From the mM definition (10-3/dm3 (L)) and the CMS 
relative molecular mass stated by the European active substance manufacturer, the CMC of 3.5 mM 
corresponds to 610.75 mg/100 ml, or 6.1 mg/ml, which in turn corresponds to approximately to 
80,000 IU/ml, although it was noted that this figure can only be approximate, given the paucity of 
available data. 
Dutkiewicz et al., 200213 demonstrated that the activity of water at micelle surfaces is different to that 
at the bulk and the high concentrations of the counter ions immobilised close to the micelle surface 
reduce the mobility of and deplete the water close to the micelle surface. All of this results in a 
considerably slower hydrolysis of the sulfomethyl groups of CMS existing as micelles, compared with 
CMS existing as monomers. 
With regard to the effect of CMS micelle formation on the antimicrobial assay of CMS, Bergen et al., 
2006 demonstrated that CMS is an inactive prodrug of colistin and that it is therefore reasonable to 
assume that rapid and complete hydrolysis of the colistin is required to achieve an accurate 
microbiological assay for colistin. The measured MICs for CMS are typically 1-2 mg/ml and are 
therefore below the CMC. It is therefore considered unlikely that CMS micelle formation will affect the 
routine assay of CMS, especially as CMS at a concentration of 1.3 mg/ml will hydrolyse completely 
within 9-10 hours, which is significantly less than the 18 hour time point for the reading of a microbial 
assay plate. 
In conclusion, the CHMP agreed that the apparent discrepancies in the aqueous stability of CMS are 
related to the concentration and that at concentrations below the CMC, CMS can hydrolyse rapidly to 
its constituent polymyxin components while above the CMC, the surface effects of the micellisation 
appears to give CMS a degree of protection against hydrolysis of the sulfomethyl groups of the 
proportion of CMS existing as micelles. The concentrations used for the microbiological assay are below 
the CMC and therefore the CMS is considered to be approximately fully converted. The CHMP 
considered that the critical factors for the in-use stability of CMS and its conversion/hydrolysis to 
colistin to be temperature, concentration and time. 
The CHMP concluded that CMS solutions are stable from the chemical and physical point of view during 
24 hours at 2 to 8 ºC but that rapid conversion of CMS to colistin occurs below the CMC of 6.1 mg/ml 
at 25 ºC which corresponds approximately to 80,000 IU/ml, and is more or less the minimum dose 
recommended if the dilution is made with 2 ml of solvent. In addition, the minimum infusion 
concentration (according to CMC) should be 610.75 mg/100 ml or approximately 7,634,375 IU/100 ml 
at 25 ºC, to avoid conversion to colistin. The loading dose of 9 MIU in 100 ml can be given by infusion, 
based on this study, but solutions of CMS with a concentration below 7 MIU in 100 ml are not stable 
and a rapid conversion of CMS to colistin may occur. 
Based on the available data, the CHMP considered the chromatographic analytical method 
(derivatisation of colistin) to be stability indicating, in contrast to the in-use stability assessment by 
microbiological assay, which does not provide adequate evidence of stability. The reaction with 
silicotungstic acid is the limit test for free colistin, as stated in the Ph. Eur. CMS monograph and while 
no colistin was detected in the reconstituted solutions, which is considered reassuring, the CHMP noted 
that this may be due to inadequate sensitivity of the test. 
The following recommendation is made to EDQM for revision of the CMS monograph: 
The rate and extent of release of colistin, by hydrolysis, from CMS are considered critical 
quality attributes. A test to specify these attributes in the Ph. Eur. monograph should be 
developed. 
It is known that these attributes are influenced by the degree of sulfomethylation and drug 
concentration.  
13 Dutkiewicz E, Jakubowska A. Chemphyschem 2002;3:221. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Hydrolysis of colistimethate is significantly increased when reconstituted and diluted below 
its critical micelle concentration of about 80,000 IU per ml (6.16mgs per ml). It is therefore 
recommended that test conditions should be representative of CMS infusion administration 
e.g. a solution of CMS in 0.9% sodium chloride, at a concentration well below 80,000IU/ml. 
The following recommendation is made to the marketing authorisation holders: 
Investigation of in-use shelf life of reconstituted solutions of finished product should include 
assessment of changes in the degree of sulfomethylation, presence of free colistin. The rate 
and release of colistin should also be considered. 
The size of the primary packaging should be sufficiently small so that on reconstitution, the 
concentration of CMS is well above its critical micelle concentration of about 80,000 IU per 
ml e.g. 10ml. 
2.5.  Changes to the product information 
Based on this information, the CHMP considered that section 6.3 of the summary of product 
characteristics documents of all CMS products should be harmonised and revised. It was considered 
important to differentiate between the various formulations available when defining in-use stability 
recommendations for the SmPC. In addition, the chemical and physical stability of the solution should 
be considered separately from the conditions of administration and the potential microbiological risk of 
contamination. Regarding the physical and chemical stability, it was for example noted that due to 
different dosing and reconstitution volumes, the range of reconstituted solution concentrations for 
adult patients will differ greatly between solutions for infusion/injection (in the range 20,000 IU/ml to 
200,000 IU/ml) and solutions for inhalation (in the range 333,333 IU/ml to 1,000,000 IU/ml). 
Consequently, the lowest solution concentration for inhaled products is significantly greater than that 
for infusion/injections products, meaning that a reconstituted inhaled solution is more stable than 
reconstituted solutions of infusion/injection products. Regarding conditions of administration, it was 
considered that in-use stability statements could only be defined for reconstituted CMS solutions with 
concentrations above the CMC and, as a precaution, at refrigerated conditions only, as the data 
suggests that some level of degradation may occur also above the CMC. An in-use stability statement 
for the solution for infusion was not considered possible; instead users should be instructed to use the 
solution immediately. Finally, regarding the potential microbiological risk of contamination, a statement 
“From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening/ reconstitution/ dilution precludes 
the risk of microbial contamination, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, 
in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of user” was recommended for products for 
solution for bolus injection and infusion. Because there is no requirement for inhalation products to be 
sterile, this statement is not applicable for products for inhalation by nebulisation, in accordance with 
CHMP/QWP/159/96 corr.. 
The CHMP also reviewed a number of SmPCs for CMS powder for solution for nebulisation, injection 
and infusion finished products, looking at the wording present in section 6.6. The reconstitution solvent 
was found to differ between the formulations. Given the available strengths of CMS finished products 
and the size of the vials, it is expected that on reconstitution, the CMS concentration will be above its 
CMC of about 80,000 IU/ml. The SmPCs describe reconstitution only with water for injections or 0.9% 
sodium chloride. For solutions for nebulisation, reconstitution can be done with water for injection to 
produce a hypotonic solution, with a 50:50 mixture of water for injection and 0.9% sodium chloride to 
product an isotonic solution or with 0.9% sodium chloride to product a hypertonic solution. For bolus 
injections, the injection volume should not exceed 10 ml; for infusions, the volume is usually 50 ml. 
For inhalation by nebulisation, the maximum volume is 4 ml. The CHMP also advised that the 
reconstitution should be gentle, to avoid frothing and that the size of the vial should be included in 
section 6.5.
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Overall conclusion 
The CHMP, having considered the matter and all available data, including responses by the marketing 
authorisation holders, is of the opinion that the Ph. Eur. monographs of colistin sulfate and 
colistimethate sodium should be updated and that the quality requirements for the CMS containing 
finished products should be changed. 
With regards to the recommendations to update the Ph. Eur. monographs, the CHMP particularly 
emphasises that the colistin and colistimethate sodium subcomponents should be adequately 
controlled, to ensure consistency in the quality of the colistimethate sodium active substance ; the 
degree of sulfomethylation, the levels of free colistin and the rate and extent of colistin release by 
hydrolysis are considered critical quality attributes and should therefore be adequately controlled 
through appropriate tests with limits set based on the available historical data.  
The CHMP also adopted some recommendations to the marketing authorisation holders of polymyxin-
based medicinal products, including on the reconstitution of CMS and the associated instability of the 
solution. Sections 6.3, 6.5 and 6.6 of the summary of product characteristics should be revised for all 
formulations, as presented in the annex to this document (Appendix I – Polymyxin Article 5(3) - 
Recommendations to the MAHs).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/153652/2015  
Page 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix I 
Polymyxin Article 5(3) - Recommendations to the MAHs 
 
 
Recommendations made to the marketing authorisation holders 
Drug Product Dossier 
The in vitro microbiological potency test is not considered satisfactorily stability indicating. 
CMS active substance in finished products, on release and throughout the shelf-life of the finished 
product, should comply with the CMS Ph. Eur. monograph, in particular with respect to the degree of 
sulfomethylation and the limit test for colistin in the CMS Ph. Eur. monograph, unless otherwise 
qualified and justified. 
A test to monitor the rate and release of colistin, by hydrolysis, from CMS is also recommended. 
For finished products manufactured by lyophillisation, given the known instability of CMS by hydrolysis 
to colistin, the manufacturing process should be supported by a risk assessment and risk mitigation 
steps to minimize hydrolysis. 
Investigation  of  in-use  shelf  life  of  reconstituted  solutions  of  finished  product  should  include 
assessment  of  changes  in  the  degree  of  sulfomethylation,  presence  of  free  colistin.  The  rate  and 
release of colistin should also be considered. 
The  size  of  the  primary  packaging  should  be  sufficiently  small  so  that  on  reconstitution,  the 
concentration  of  CMS  is  well  above  its  critical  micelle  concentration  of  about  80,000  IU  per  ml  e.g. 
10ml. 
Changes to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
For solutions for bolus injection, infusion and inhalation by nebuliser, the following changes are 
recommended to the summary of product characteristics document: 
(a)  Section 6.3 to include 
Hydrolysis of colistimethate is significantly increased when reconstituted and diluted below its 
critical micelle concentration of about 80,000 IU per ml.  
Solutions below this concentration should be used immediately 
For solutions for bolus injection or nebulisation, the chemical and physical in-use stability of 
reconstituted solution in the original vial, with a concentration ≥ 80,000 IU/mL, has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2 to 8°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening/ reconstitution/ dilution 
precludes the risk of microbial contamination, the product should be used immediately. 
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of user. 
For solutions for infusion, which have been diluted beyond the original vial volume and / or with 
a concentration < 80,000 IU/mL, should be used immediately. 
(b)  Section 6.5 to include the size of the vial. 
(c)  Section 6.6 to include 
For bolus injection: 
Reconstitute the contents of the vial with not more than 10ml water for injection or 0.9% sodium 
chloride. 
For infusion: 
The contents of the reconstituted vial may be diluted, usually with 50ml 0.9% sodium chloride 
For inhalation by nebuliser: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconstitute the contents of the vial with either water for injections to produce a hypotonic 
solution or a 50:50 mixture of water for injections and 0.9% sodium chloride to produce an 
isotonic solution or with 0.9% sodium chloride to produce a hypertonic solution. 
The volume of reconstitution should be according to the instructions for use of nebuliser 
administration device, and is normally not more than 4ml. 
(d)  Section 6.6 to also include 
During reconstitution swirl gently to avoid frothing. 
For single use only and any remaining solution should be discarded.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
