31 January 2019 
EMA/119506/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Atazanavir Krka 
International non-proprietary name: atazanavir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004859/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a 
commercially confidential nature deleted.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 13 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development................................................ 13 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Pharmacology, Pharmacokinetics and Toxicology ................................................. 14 
2.3.3. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 15 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 21 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 21 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 21 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 21 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 22 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 23 
User consultation ...................................................................................................... 23 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 23 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 23 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 2/24 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AESI  
AGP 
ANOVA  
ANSM   
AP 
API 
AR 
ASM 
ASMF 
ATV 
AUC 
AUC0-inf  
AUC0-t  
BP 
CEP  
Cmax 
CMS 
CoA 
CRO 
CRS 
CV 
DMF 
DP 
EMA 
ERA 
EU  
GCP 
ICH 
IPC 
IR 
IS-normalized MF 
ISR 
IU 
K2EDTA 
LC-MS/MS  
LLOQ 
LOA 
LOD 
LOQ 
LOQ 
LoQ 
MA 
MA 
MAA 
MAH 
MS 
ND 
NLT 
NMR 
NMT 
OOS 
PDE 
Ph. Eur. 
PK  
PL 
QC 
QOS 
RH 
AEs of special interest 
α1-acid glycoprotein 
Analysis of variance 
National Agency for the Safety of Medicine and Health Products 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a ASMF 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment Report 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Atazanavir 
Area Under the plasma Concentration 
Area Under the plasma Concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
Area Under the plasma Concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours 
 British Pharmacopoeia 
 Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia 
 maximum plasma concentration  
 Concerned Member State 
 Certificate of Analysis 
 Certified Research Organisation 
 Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
 Coefficient of Variation 
 Drug Master File = Active Substance Master File 
 Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
 European Madicines Agency 
 Enviromental Risk Assessment 
 European Union 
 Good Clinical Practice 
 International Conference on Harmonisation 
 In-process control 
 Infrared 
 Internal Standard-normalised Matrix Factor 
 Incurred Sample Reanalysis 
 International Units 
 dipotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 
 liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry 
 Lower Limit of Quantification 
 Letter of Access 
 Limit of Detection 
 (1) Limit of Quantification, (2) List of Questions 
 Limit of Quantification 
 List of Questions 
 Marketing Authorisation 
 Marketing Authorisation 
 Marketing Authorization Application 
 Marketing Authorisation holder 
 Mass Spectrometry 
 Not detected 
 Not less than 
 Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
 Not more than 
 Out of Specifications 
 Permitted Daily Exposure 
 European Pharmacopoeia 
 pharmacokinetic 
 Patient Leaflet 
 Quality Control (samples) 
 Quality Overall Summary 
 Relative Humidity 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 3/24 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RMS 
RP 
RRT 
RSD 
SmPC   
SOP 
STD 
t1/2 
TDM 
tmax 
TTC 
USP/NF  
UV 
XRD 
 Reference Member State 
 Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of a ASMF 
 Relative retention time 
 Relative standard deviation 
 Summary of Product Characteristics 
 Standard Operating Procedure 
 Standard Deviation 
 terminal elimination half-life 
 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring 
 time to maximum plasma concentration 
 Threshold of toxicological concern 
 United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
 Ultraviolet 
 X-Ray Diffraction 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 4/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on 8 March 2018 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Atazanavir Krka, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 22 June 2017. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: “Atazanavir Krka capsules, co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, are indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of 
age and older in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products”. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Reyataz instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Reyataz 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
•  Date of authorisation: 02-03-2004 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/03/267/003-004, EU/1/03/267/005-006, 
EU/1/03/267/008-010 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Reyataz 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
•  Date of authorisation: 02-03-2004 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/03/267/003-004, EU/1/03/267/005-006, 
EU/1/03/267/008-010 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Reyataz, 300mg, capsule, hard 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
•  Date of authorisation: 02-03-2004 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 5/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/03/267/008-010 
•  Bioavailability study number: 2017-4324 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Tomas Boran 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
8 March 2018 
29 March 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
18 June 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
2 July 2018 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
26 July 2018 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
14 September 2018 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
22 October 2018 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
31 October 2018 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in an 
15 November 2018 
oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
19 December 2018 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
16 January 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
31 January 2019 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 6/24 
 
 
 
 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Atazanavir Krka on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
AIDS is a chronic, potentially life-threatening condition caused by the human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). By damaging immune system, HIV interferes with body's ability to fight the organisms that cause 
disease. 
HIV is a sexually transmitted infection. It can also be spread by contact with infected blood, or from 
mother to child during pregnancy, childbirth or breast-feeding. 
There's no cure for HIV/AIDS, but there are medications that can dramatically slow the progression of the 
disease. These medicinal products have reduced AIDS deaths in many developed nations. But HIV 
continues to decimate populations in Africa, Haiti and parts of Asia. HIV is transmitted through direct 
contact of a mucous membrane or the bloodstream with a bodily fluid containing HIV, such as blood, 
semen, vaginal fluid, pre-seminal fluid, and breast milk. This transmission can involve anal, vaginal or 
oral sex, blood transfusion, contaminated hypodermic needles, exchange between mother and baby 
during pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding or other exposure to one of the above bodily fluids. 
Introduction of HIV protease inhibitors (PIs) within antiretroviral therapy, in association with nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), started a new era in the battle against HIV and enabled the 
construction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), which dramatically decreased mortality in 
HIV-infected populations in developed countries. Further and substantial improvements occurred with the 
addition of a low dose of the PI ritonavir to another PI in order to increase plasma levels of the latter (i.e. 
‘boosting’ strategy, denoted by ‘/r’ following the PI), to reduce inter-individual variability in plasma 
concentrations and increase the overall potency of the regimens) (Focà E et al., 2012). 
The long-term efficacy of ritonavir boosted PI regimens, several toxicity events were related to ritonavir 
and/or to the increased plasma drug concentrations of the PIs given in association. These events may 
occur either in the short term or in the long term, and include gastrointestinal disturbances, lipid profile 
alterations, insulin resistance and central body fat accumulation. An alternative booster using molecules 
such as cobicistat did not significantly improve the tolerability profile ). Therefore, we still need to assess 
whether a PI-based option without any boosting is a feasible option in selected conditions, where potency 
and genetic barrier against the emergence of RAMs are not compromised and toxicity tolerability profiles 
of the regimen are optimised (Focà E et al., 2012). 
Atazanavir is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI). The compound selectively inhibits the 
virus-specific processing of viral Gag-Pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation of 
mature virions and infection of other cells. 
The product atazanavir 150, 200 and 300 mg, hard capsules was developed as a generic equivalent to the 
innovator´s product Reyataz (atazanavir) 300 mg, hard capsules. The active substance of this product is 
atazanavir sulfate. The innovator´s product was authorised in EU on 2.3.2004. The marketing 
authorization holder is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG, UK. 
Atazanavir is co-administered with low dose ritonavir and indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected 
adult and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other antiretroviral products. 
The recommended dose in adults is 300 mg once daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg once daily and with 
food. Paediatric patients are dosed based on body weight. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 7/24 
 
 
 
 
This application is for a generic form of atazanavir capsules in strengths of 150 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg 
and applies for the indication of the reference product. This is an abridged application submitted under 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. An abridged application is appropriate since the product in this 
application is essentially similar to the existing product Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) 300 mg hard 
capsules form the originator of Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. The active ingredient and the route of 
administration are the same for both products.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as hard capsules containing 150, 200 or 300 mg of atazanavir (as 
sulfate) as active substance.  
Other ingredients are:  
Capsule contents: lactose monohydrate, crospovidone (type A), magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell cap (150 mg and 200 mg): titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric 
oxide (E172), gelatine 
Capsule shell body (150 mg and 300 mg): titanium dioxide (E171), gelatine 
Printing ink (150 mg and 200 mg): shellac, black ferric oxide (E172), potassium hydroxide 
Capsule shell body (200 mg): titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric oxide (E172), 
gelatine 
Capsule shell cap (300 mg): titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric oxide (E172), 
black ferric oxide (E172), gelatine 
Printing ink (300 mg): shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), potassium hydroxide. 
The product is available in HDPE tablet container with child-resistant tamper evident PP with desiccant 
closure as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of atazanavir sulfate is 
(3S,8S,9S,12S)-3,12-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-8-hydroxy-4,11-dioxo-9-(phenylmethyl)-6-[[4-(2-pyridiny
l)phenyl]methyl]-2,5,6,10,13-pentaazatetradecanedioic acid dimethyl ester sulphate corresponding to 
the molecular formula C38H54N6O11S. It has a relative molecular mass of 802.93 and the following 
structure: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 8/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of high resolution mass 
spectrometry (HRMS), mass spectroscopy, NMR spectroscopy (1H NMR), IR spectroscopy, UV 
spectroscopy and identification by HPLC. The solid state properties of the active substance were 
measured by X-Ray diffraction. 
The active substance is a white to pale yellow, slightly hygroscopic, crystalline powder with pH dependent 
aqueous solubility. It is slightly soluble at acidic pH, solubility increasing as pH decreases, but practically 
insoluble at neutral pH. Since atazanavir has low solubility (BCS class II), control of polymorphic form and 
particle size are critical to ensuring a consistent performance in vivo. 
Atazanavir contains four chiral centres that originate in the starting materials and synthesis. Enantiomeric 
purity of the active substance is controlled routinely by specific optical rotation and by the HPLC method 
in the active substance specifications. 
Polymorphism for atazanavir sulphate has been recorded in literature. The manufacturing process 
consistently produces the required form (Form-A or Type-I) which will be routinely tested in batches of 
active substance. 
There is no monograph of atazanavir sulphate in the European Pharmacopoeia. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The information on atazanavir sulphate is provided according to the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure. Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the 
restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory.  
One source of active substance is used although multiple manufacturers are responsible for different 
steps of the active substance production. Atazanavir sulfate is synthesised in a convergent process in six 
main steps using  well-defined starting materials with acceptable specifications. Each intermediate is 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 9/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided by two suppliers using different synthetic routes which was supported by data and found 
acceptable. One of the starting materials was re-defined during the procedure at the request of CHMP in 
order to ensure that critical steps and enough of the synthetic process are included in the dossier, thereby 
ensuring the quality of the active substance throughout its life cycle. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to 
their origin and characterised. The origin, fate and purge of mutagenic impurities have been described. 
Elemental impurities are controlled by several tests in the active substance specification. 
The active substance is packaged in double LDPE bags which comply with the EC directive 2002/72/EC 
and EC 10/2011 as amended. These are stored inside a triple laminated sunlight barrier which is 
heat-sealed and placed in a HDPE container. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, solubility in MeOH and water (Ph. Eur.), 
identification (IR, HPLC, sulfate test), water content (KF), sulfated ash (Ph. Eur.), sulfate content (in 
house), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), enantiomeric purity (isocratic HPLC), impurities (HPLC), assay 
(HPLC), residual solvents (GC) and other product specific requirements. 
Impurities are all limited to below the qualification threshold according to ICH Q3A.  Potential genotoxic 
impurities have limits either in accordance with ICH M7 Note 7 or TTC. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on five production and one pilot scale batches of the active substance tested by the 
finished product manufacturer are provided. Additional supportive data on numerous batches of different 
sizes tested by the active substance manufacturer were also provided. The results are within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from 21 active substance batches of different scales from the proposed manufacturer stored 
in the intended commercial package for up to 60 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH), 
for up to 60 months under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 65% RH) and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. Photostability 
testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on two batches. Results on stress conditions (acid, 
base, peroxide, heat and light) were also provided. 
The following parameters were tested: appearance, water content (KF), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), 
enantiomeric purity (isocratic HPLC), impurities (HPLC), assay (HPLC) and microbiological. The 
parameters tested are the same as for release. The analytical methods used were the same as for release 
and were stability indicating. 
All tested parameters were within the specifications. Forced degradation studies revealed that there is 
significant appearance of known impurities. The active substance is not sensitive to light. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 60 months in the proposed 
container. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 10/24 
 
 
 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is an immediate release hard gelatin capsule containing a yellowish-white to 
yellow-white powder. Atazanavir 150 mg capsules are size no. 1, the body of the capsule is white or 
almost white colour, the cap of the capsule is brownish-orange colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with 
black mark A150. Atazanavir 200 mg capsules are size no. 0, the body and the cap of the capsule are 
brownish-orange colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with black mark A200. Atazanavir 300 mg capsules 
are size no. 00, the body of the capsule is white or almost white colour, the cap of the capsule is dark 
brown colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with white mark A300. These characteristics are considered 
sufficient to distinguish different capsule strengths.  
The aim of pharmaceutical development was to develop a product essentially similar with the originator 
product (i.e. reference product) and to design a product of specified quality and its manufacturing process 
to consistently deliver the intended performance of the product, e.g. easily manufactured, stable 
formulation in proposed packaging. 
Atazanavir sulphate is known to exhibit polymorphism as it is described in literature but the commercial 
process produces exclusively a non-solvated, highly crystalline form designed as form A. 
According to the reference product, Reyataz’s EPAR, atazanavir sulphate undergoes polymorphic 
transition during the wet granulation operation and polymorphic transition (from highly crystalline form A 
to less crystalline hydrate form) during the granulation is crucial for in vitro dissolution profiles. Based on 
the data presented regarding the finished product manufacturing process, it was shown that that the 
process is well-defined and the polymorphic transition is consistent in every batch.  
Atazanavir is poorly soluble substance according to the BCS (class II); hence its particle size might affect 
dissolution behaviour and biopharmaceutical characteristics of the medicine. However, the effect of 
particle size on dissolution rate is less pronounced due to polymorphic transition of active ingredient 
which occurs during the wet granulation phase. Nevertheless, the effect of particle size on dissolution 
behaviour was evaluated and a particle size limits were established. 
Development of the finished product was based on qualitative and quantitative composition of the 
reference product. Differences compared to the reference product’s formulation were appropriately 
justified.  
Formulation development was based on the highest strength and the other two strengths were prepared 
as dose proportional (same qualitative and quantitative composition of the capsulating mixture and 
proportionally reduced capsule filling weight). 
To establish bioequivalence between Krka’s atazanavir formulation and Reyataz a single dose 
bioequivalence study under fed conditions was performed. The reference product is to be taken with food. 
Therefore, the bioequivalence study was performed under the same conditions. The pharmacokinetics of 
atazanavir are dose proportional in the dosing range. For such cases a bioequivalence study using the 
highest strength is recommended which is 300 mg in this case. The 200 mg and 150 mg strengths were 
manufactured by the same manufacturing process, the qualitative composition of the strengths is the 
same and the composition the capsule content is quantitatively proportional. Appropriate in vitro 
dissolution data have been provided for all strengths. Therefore, a biowaiver for lower strengths was 
considered justified. Furthermore, the reference batches used in the study were representative for the 
reference formulation. The BEQ batch used in the study has the same composition and has been 
manufactured on the same type of equipment as the one to be marketed. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 11/24 
 
 
 
Additional dissoulution data was generated at the request of the CHMP. . Similarity of dissolution profiles 
between 300 mg, 200 mg and 150 mg has been demonstrated. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The discriminatory power of the dissolution method has been demonstrated with regards to changes in 
composition and manufacturing process parameters. 
At the request of CHMP the limit for dissolution was revised in order to ensure the satisfactory control of 
the finished product. 
The primary packaging is HDPE tablet container with child-resistant tamper evident PP with desiccant 
closure. The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure 
system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of 11 main steps: sieving, mixing, granulating, drying and sieving of 
granulate, IPC of granulate, sieving, blending, IPC of capsulating mixture, capsulating, IPC of capsules 
and packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies.  It  has  been 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended 
quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing 
process and pharmaceutical form. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  shown  in  Table  5  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of 
dosage form: appearance (visually), water (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of dosage units – mass variation (Ph. 
Eur.), identification of atazanavir (HPLC, DAD), impurities (in house), dissolution (Ph. Eur.), content of 
atazanavir (in house) and microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). 
To evaluate the presence of elemental impurities in the finished product, a risk assessment in line with 
ICHQ3D guideline was performed using component approach. The results showed that elemental 
impurities are set in accordance with ICH Q3D. It was concluded that there is no need to specify any 
elemental impurities in final product in line with ICHQ3D guideline. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 commercial scale batches of each capsule strength confirming 
the consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product 
specification.  
The finished product is released on the market based on the approved specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 3 commercial scale batches of each strength of the finished product stored for up to 12 
months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months  and under accelerated 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 12/24 
 
 
 
 
conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of medicinal 
product  are  identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were  packed  in  the  primary  packaging 
representative to that proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for appearance, water, uniformity of dosage units – mass variation, identification of 
atazanavir,  impurities,  dissolution,  content  of  atazanavir  and  microbiological  purity.  The  analytical 
procedures  used  are  stability  indicating.  Neither  significant  changes  nor  trends  have  been  observed. 
Nevertheless, since the pharmaceutical form is gelatine capsule a temperature limit according to the Ph. 
Eur. Monograph for Capsules ‘Store at a temperature not exceeding 30°C’ is justified. 
In addition, one batch of each of the capsule strengths batches was exposed to light as defined in the ICH 
Guideline  on  Photostability  Testing  of  New  Drug  Substances  and  Products.  No  significant  changes  of 
tested parameters have been observed. 
The results of the in use stability studies have been provided. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 2 years when stored below 30 °C in the 
container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are 
acceptable. Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25 °C. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
Gelatine obtained from bovine sources is used in the product. Valid TSE CEP from the suppliers of the 
gelatine used in the manufacture is provided.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented 
to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 13/24 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology, Pharmacokinetics and Toxicology 
The  non-clinical  overview  has  been  written  by  (confidential  information  deleted),  an  independent 
researcher in Krka d.d., Novo mesto, Slovenia. The overview is dated on March 2018. The report refers to 
56 references up to year 2017. 
The CHMP considers that the non-clinical overview on the pre-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics 
and toxicology is adequate. 
No  novel  excipients  are  used.  The  qualitative  composition  of  the  Atazanavir  Krka  and  the  originator 
Reyataz  is  same.  Quantitatively,  the  products  differ  in  amount  of  magnesium  stearate.  Justification 
focusing  on  paediatric  population  has  been  provided.  From  toxicological  perspective  there  are  no 
concerns regarding the used excipients.  
Adequate  discussion  regarding  to  impurity  profile,  residual  solvents  and  degradants  was  provided. 
Impurity  profile  of  Atazanavir  Krka  product  and  the  originator  are  comparable.  Limits  for  elemental 
impurities in the drug product are below the permitted daily exposures based on ICH Q3D. 
The  instructions  on  use  of  the  compounds  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  and  preclinical  safety  data 
contained in the proposed SmPC reflect the characteristics of the substances and are fully in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product Reyataz (PI: EMEA/H/C/000494 -WS/1292, updated on 21/03/2018). 
2.3.3.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Atazanavir Krka hard capsules 150 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg manufactured by Krka is 
considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all atazanavir 
containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is 
expected to be similar. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology for atazanavir hard 
capsules 150 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg has been provided. The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and 
toxicology data as well known for atazanavir and thus new non-clinical data are not required. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile 
has been discussed and was considered acceptable. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 14/24 
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for hard capsules containing atazanavir sulfate. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted a bioequivalence study with two-treatment, 
two-sequence, two-period crossover design under fed conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the 
evaluation. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
The bioequivalence study was performed using the highest strength of 300 mg, claiming that all 
conditions regarding biowaiver as described in the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence have 
been fulfilled. A biowaiver has been requested for the additional strengths of 150 mg and 200 mg. 
Atazanavir is rapidly absorbed after oral administration (Tmax 2.5 h) and demonstrates nonlinear 
pharmacokinetics, resulting in greater than dose-proportional increases in bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) 
over a dose range of 200–800 mg daily. In line with relevant guidelines, the bioequivalence study was 
conducted on the highest dose (300 mg).  
It is considered that the conditions for biowaiver have been fulfilled: 
• 
All the three strengths are manufactured at the same site by the same manufacturer and 
manufacturing process. 
• 
• 
• 
The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same. 
The composition of the strengths are quantitatively proportional (except for colouring agents) 
Comparable in vitro dissolution data confirm the adequacy of waiving additional in vivo 
bioequivalence testing. Dissolution profiles were considered similar as supported by f2 value greater 
than 50. 
Consequently, a biowaiver for the additional strengths is considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
The applicant has submitted one single dose bioequivalence study (confidential information deleted) 
under fed condition in support of this application. 
Bioequivalence study (confidential information deleted):  
Title of Study: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 15/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Single-Dose, Comparative Bioavailability Study of Two Formulations of Atazanavir 300 mg Capsules 
under Fed Conditions. 
The objective of this study was to evaluate the comparative bioavailability between atazanavir 300 mg 
capsules, hard (manufactured by (confidential information deleted)) and Reyataz (atazanavir) 300 mg 
hard capsules (MAH: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG, United Kingdom, EU) after a single-dose in 
healthy subjects under fed conditions. 
Methods 
Sponsor 
Krka, d. d., Novo mesto 
CRO 
Šmarješka Cesta 6 
8501 Novo mesto 
Clinical Facility: 
Pharma Medica Research Inc. 
4770 Sheppard Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M1S 3V6 
Clinical Laboratory Facility: 
Alpha Laboratories Incorporated 
1262 Don Mills Road 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M3B 2W7 
Bioanalytical, Pharmacokinetic 
and Statistical Facility: 
Pharma Medica Research Inc. 
6100 Belgrave Road 
Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, L5R 
0B7 
Protocol identification No. 
2017-4324  
Study initiation date: 
September 23, 2017 
Study completion date: 
October 30, 2017 
Principal investigator 
(confidential information deleted)  
Date of the study protocol 
July 28, 2017 (version 1) 
Date of the study report  
January 2018 
Analytical Phase Dates 
October 06, 2017 - October 24, 
2017 
Date of the Analytical Report 
December 14, 2017 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 16/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of the Validation Report 
Method Validation Report: January 
2012 
Latest Amendment No. 5: 
September 2017 
Study design  
This was an open-label, single-dose, randomised, two-period, two-treatment, two sequence, crossover 
study to evaluate the comparative bioavailability of atazanavir in healthy male and female subjects under 
fed conditions. 
According to the EMA Guidance (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 Cor**) the design of the study is 
considered adequate. The test product is immediate release formulation; therefore a single dose 
bioequivalence study is appropriate. 
Test and reference products  
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg manufactured by (confidential information deleted), (batch No. 82460717, 
manufacturing date; exp. Date January 2018) has been compared to Reyataz 300 mg manufactured by 
(Batch No. AAN4140, exp. Date March 2018). 
Table 6: Test and reference product information 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 17/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population studied 
Sample size determination 
In-house  data  indicated  a  coefficient  of  variation  (CV)  for  atazanavir  Cmax  of  approximately  28%. 
Assuming a 30% intra-subject variability and a difference between the treatment means of 5% or less, 
the necessary sample size for a 90% probability of the 90% CI of the treatment means ratio to be within 
the 80.00 to 125.00% range was estimated to be 52 subjects. 
Six  (6)  extra  subjects  were  included  into  the  study  to  account  for  potential  dropouts.  Therefore,  58 
subjects were enrolled into this study. Only volunteers who were dosed were considered enrolled. 
Fifty-eight (58) subjects were enrolled in the study and 56 subjects completed the study. Fifty-seven (57) 
subjects  received  the  test  product  (Treatment  A)  and  57  subjects  received  the  reference  product 
(Treatment B). The subjects were healthy volunteers between 23 – 55 years of age with body mass index 
(BMI) between 20,3 – 29,5 kg/m2. Overall 33 subjects were of White race, 9 Asian, 15 Black or African 
American and 1 American Indian/Alaska Native.  
There were 2 discontinued subjects: 
Subject  (confidential  information  deleted)  –  was  withdrawn  from  the  study  prior  to  period  2  due  to 
non-compliance (positive THC test) 
Subject  (confidential  information  deleted)  –  was  withdrawn  from  the  study  prior  to  period  2  due  to 
adverse event (electrocardiogram QT prolonged)  
Concomitant medication 
There were no concomitant medications used during this study. 
Protocol deviations 
Subject  (confidential  information  deleted)    -  consumed  a  caffeine-containing  drink  approximately  24 
hours prior to Period 2 drug administration. 
Subject (confidential information deleted) - One check-in blood sample was centrifuged 1 minute late. 
Subject (confidential information deleted) - was to be excluded from the statistical dataset due to low 
concentrations of the reference product; however, the subject was included in the statistical dataset due 
to the Sponsor’s request. 
Analytical methods 
Atazanavir was analysed by the validated LC/MS/MS method at the Bioanalytical Laboratory of Pharma 
Medica Research Inc. The method involved a protein precipitation extraction. (confidential information 
deleted)   
Total number of subject samples analysed was two thousand, three hundred and seventy-four (2374). 
Subjects 09 and 55 were dismissed from the study prior to Period 2. These subjects were excluded from 
the PK analysis. The samples were received from the Pharma Medica Research Inc. Clinical Facility in good 
condition and were stored at -25 ± 10 °C along with the quality control samples.  
Study sample assays were supported by assay performance data generated at the time of analysis. A 
minimum of sixteen (16) QC samples (four at each concentration level) were included in each analytical 
batch. The results of inter-day QC samples accuracy and precision were 100.6% - 103.5% and 2.3% - 
3.7%CV, respectively. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 18/24 
 
 
 
 
Two (2) plasma samples from 2374 study samples were repeated for atazanavir. At least 2/3 of the total 
samples selected for ISR evaluation met the percent difference criteria of ≤20.0% between original and 
re-assayed concentrations as outlined in the Guideline on Bioanalytical Method Validation. 
The method was validated before initiation of study samples analyses. The following parameters were 
addressed: linearity  and  calibration  curve  range,  sensitivity,  precision  and  accuracy,  selectivity  in  the 
presence  of  endogenous  components  of  normal,  lipaemic  and  haemolysed  plasma,  selectivity  in  the 
presence  of  concomitant  medication  including  hormonal  contraceptives,  carry-over  test,  extraction 
recovery  of  both  the  analyte  and  the  internal  standard,  matrix  effect,  dilution  integrity  accuracy  and 
precision, stability of analyte and internal standard in the stock and working solutions, short-term and 
long-term  stability  in  the  biological  matrix,  freeze-thaw  stability  in  human  plasma  and  stability  of 
extracted samples. Each validation parameter was assessed. The validation results were acceptable and 
in line with the requirements of the Guideline on Bioanalytical Method Validation. 
The stability results demonstrated that atazanavir and internal standard were stable under the conditions 
of study samples collection, shipment, treatment and analysis. The longest storage period of the study 
samples was covered by the long-term stability data at -25 ± 10 °C. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The following PK parameters/observations were estimated for atazanavir using a non-compartmental 
approach in SAS (version 9.4): 
-  AUCt: The area under the analyte concentration versus time curve, from time zero (0) to the time 
of the last measurable analyte concentration (t), as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method, 
-  AUCinf: The area under the analyte concentration versus time curve from time zero to infinity. 
AUCinf = AUCt + Ct/K el, where Ct is the last measurable analyte concentration, 
-  Cmax: Maximum measured analyte concentration over the sampling period, 
- 
Tmax: Time of the maximum measured analyte concentration over the sampling period, 
-  K el: The apparent first-order elimination rate constant, 
- 
Thalf: The apparent elimination half-life, 
-  AUCt/AUCinf: The ratio of AUCt to AUCinf, 
- 
- 
TLIN: Start time for linear regression, 
LQCT: Last quantifiable concentration time, 
-  R: Correlation coefficient obtained from regression analysis. 
K el, Thalf, and AUCinf parameters would not be estimated for concentration-time profiles where the 
terminal linear phase was not clearly defined. Individual and mean plasma concentration versus time 
curves were plotted. 
Statistical methods 
Statistical analysis was performed on quality assured data from subjects in the statistical dataset. The 
PROC GLM procedure from SAS (version 9.4) was used. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed on 
log-transformed AUCt, AUCinf, and Cmax parameters. The significance of the sequence, period, treatment, 
and subject (sequence) effects (all fixed) was tested. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 19/24 
 
 
 
 
Using  the  same  statistical  model,  the  least-squares-means,  the  differences  between  the  treatments 
least-squares-means,  and  the  corresponding  standard  errors  of  these  differences  were  estimated  for 
log-transformed AUCt, AUC inf, and Cmax parameters. Based on these statistics, the ratios of the geometric 
means for treatments and the corresponding 90% CIs were calculated. 
Based on the log-transformed parameters, bioequivalence between the test and reference product was 
considered  met  if  the  90%  CIs  of  the  relative  mean  plasma  atazanavir  AUCt  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to 
reference products were between 80.00 and 125.00%. 
Results 
Fifty-eight (58) subjects were enrolled in the study and 56 subjects completed the study. Fifty-seven (57) 
subjects received the test product (Treatment A) and 57 subjects received the reference product 
(Treatment B). 
Table 7: Pharmacokinetic parameters for atazanavir (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
Test  
Reference  
parameter 
arithmetic mean 
SD  
arithmetic mean 
SD  
AUC(0-t)
AUC(0-∞)  
Cmax  
Tmax* 
AUC0-t    
AUC0-∞   
Cmax  
Tmax  
6867.60 
7222.80 
1297.30 
4.00 
4029.30 
6595.90 
4214.10 
6907.70 
694.00 
1276.70 
3714.90 
3884.80 
613.20 
(2.00 – 10.00)  4.00 
(2.50 – 8.05) 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours (ng*h/mL) 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (ng*h/mL) 
maximum plasma concentration (ng/mL) 
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 8: Statistical analysis for atazanavir (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
parameter 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals  CV%* 
AUC(0-t) 
Cmax  
101.80% 
96.95% 
(85.12%, 121.74%) 
(82.65%, 113.72%) 
AUC(0-∞) 
103.30% 
(87.94%, 121.34%) 
61 
54 
54 
* estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
The test product, atazanavir 300 mg capsules, hard (Manufacturer: (confidential information deleted)), 
exhibited equivalent rate and extent of absorption to the reference product, Reyataz (atazanavir) 300 mg 
hard  capsules  (Bristol-Myers  Squibb  Pharma  EEIG,  United  Kingdom,  EU),  in  healthy  subjects  after  a 
single, oral dose, under fed conditions. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 20/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
Of the 25 AEs, 16 were suspected to be possibly related to the study treatments. Five (5) subjects (8.8% 
of  subjects  dosed)  receiving  Treatment  A  reported  5  treatment  related  AEs  and  9  subjects  (15.8%) 
receiving Treatment B reported 11 treatment related AEs. 
It  can  be  concluded  that  the  two  formulations  were  well  tolerated.  The  reported  adverse  events  are 
already described in the SmPC of the reference product Reyataz. 
No deaths or serious adverse events were reported during the study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules are considered 
bioequivalent with the reference product Reyataz 300 mg hard capsules. 
The results of the bioequivalence study with the 300 mg formulation can be extrapolated to the other 
strengths 150 mg and 200 mg, according to conditions in Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr*, section 4.1.6. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To  support  the  application,  the  company  has  submitted  one  bioequivalence  study.  The  study  was  an 
open-label,  single-dose,  randomised,  two-period,  two-treatment,  two  sequence,  crossover  study 
between Atazanavir Krka 300 mg capsules, hard (manufactured by (confidential information deleted)) 
and  Reyataz  (atazanavir)  300  mg  hard  capsules  (MAH:  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  Pharma  EEIG,  United 
Kingdom, EU) in healthy subjects under fed conditions. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules are considered 
bioequivalent with the reference product Reyataz 300 mg hard capsules under fed condition. 
The results of Study 2017-4324 with Atazanavir Krka 300 mg can be extrapolated to the other strengths 
150 mg and 200 mg, as the conditions for biowaiver in the relevant Guidelines have been met. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
The list of safety concerns is the same as for originator’s atazanavir product. No new risks have been 
identified for the generic products that are not recognised for the reference product. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 21/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
PR interval prolongation (both paediatric and adult populations) 
Neprolithiasis with or without alteration of the renal function 
Hyperbilirubinemia 
Severe skin reactions 
Cholelithiasis 
Angioedema 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) 
Chronic kidney disease 
Important potential risks 
QT prolongation 
Kernicterus 
Acute renal failure (adults) 
Interstitial nephritis 
Missing information 
Hepatic impairment 
Lack of efficacy due to unboosted ATV “off-label use” 
Pregnancy 
Paediatric patients < 3 months of age 
Geriatric patients 
Woman who are breastfeeding 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine pharmacovigilance activities are considered sufficient. There are no additional PhV activities. 
However, pregnancy reports will be actively followed-up using Pregnancy Report Forms. 
Risk minimisation measures 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 22/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.  Product information 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of atazanavir sulphate capsule formulation. The reference 
product Reyataz co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected 
adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with an open label, randomised single-dose, 
two-treatment, two-sequence, two-period crossover design. The study design was considered adequate 
to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European 
requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were 
considered adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods 
applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Atazanavir hard capsule 300 mg of Krka met the protocol-defined criteria for 
bioequivalence when compared with Reyataz 300 mg capsules. The point estimates and their 90% 
confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the 
protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two 
formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Atazanavir Krka in co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for the 
treatment of HIV 1 infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with 
other antiretroviral medicinal products is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/119506/2019  
Page 24/24 
 
 
 
