EMA/449132/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004048 
EPAR summary for the public 
Atazanavir Mylan 
atazanavir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Atazanavir Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Atazanavir Mylan. 
For practical information about using Atazanavir Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Atazanavir Mylan and what is it used for? 
Atazanavir Mylan is an HIV medicine used to treat patients infected with human immunodeficiency 
virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). It is used 
together with low-dose ritonavir and other antiviral medicines to treat patients aged 6 years and over. 
Doctors should prescribe Atazanavir Mylan only after they have looked at which medicines the patient 
has taken and carried out tests to establish that the virus is likely to respond to Atazanavir Mylan. The 
medicine is not expected to work in patients in whom many medicines in the same class as Atazanavir 
Mylan (protease inhibitors) do not work. 
Atazanavir Mylan contains the active substance atazanavir.  
Atazanavir Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Atazanavir Mylan is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Reyataz. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Atazanavir Mylan used? 
Atazanavir Mylan is available as capsules (150 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg). It can only be obtained with 
a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of HIV 
infection. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
For adults, the recommended dose is 300 mg once a day. In younger patients, the dose of Atazanavir 
Mylan depends on body weight. Each dose must be taken with food.  
Atazanavir Mylan is normally given with ritonavir to boost its action but doctors can consider stopping 
ritonavir in adults in some specific situations.  
How does Atazanavir Mylan work? 
The active substance in Atazanavir Mylan, atazanavir, is a protease inhibitor. It blocks an enzyme 
called protease, which is needed for the virus to multiply. Blocking the enzyme prevents the virus from 
multiplying, slowing down the spread of infection. A small dose of another medicine, ritonavir, is 
normally given at the same time as a ‘booster’. Ritonavir slows down the break-down of atazanavir, 
increasing the levels of atazanavir in the blood. This allows a lower dose of atazanavir to be used for 
the same antiviral effect. Atazanavir Mylan, taken in combination with other antiviral medicines, 
reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Atazanavir Mylan does not cure HIV 
infection or AIDS, but it may delay the damage to the immune system and the development of 
infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Atazanavir Mylan been studied? 
Because Atazanavir Mylan is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Reyataz. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Atazanavir Mylan? 
Because Atazanavir Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Atazanavir Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Atazanavir Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Reyataz. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Reyataz, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Atazanavir Mylan be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Atazanavir Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Atazanavir Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
Other information about Atazanavir Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Atazanavir Mylan on 22 August 2016. 
The full EPAR for Atazanavir Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Atazanavir Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
Atazanavir Mylan  
EMA/449132/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2016. 
Atazanavir Mylan  
EMA/449132/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
