ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules  
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
150 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate) 
200 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 200 mg atazanavir (as sulphate) 
300 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 300 mg atazanavir (as sulphate) 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
150 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 84 mg lactose monohydrate 
200 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 112 mg lactose monohydrate 
300 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 168 mg lactose monohydrate 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule  
150 mg capsules 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg capsules are greenish-blue and blue opaque hard shell gelatin capsules filled with 
white to pale yellow powder and approximately 19.3 mm in length. The capsules are axially printed with 
‘MYLAN’ over ‘AR150’ in black ink on cap and body.   
200 mg capsules 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg capsules are blue and greenish-blue opaque hard shell gelatin capsules filled with 
white to pale yellow powder and approximately 21.4 mm in length. The capsules are axially printed with 
‘MYLAN’ over ‘AR200’ in black ink on cap and body. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
300 mg capsules 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg capsules are red and greenish-blue opaque hard shell gelatine capsules filled with 
white to pale yellow powder and approximately 23.5 mm in length. The capsules are axially printed with 
‘MYLAN’ over ‘AR300’ in black ink on cap and body. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Atazanavir Mylan, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for the treatment of HIV-1-infected 
adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products (see section 4.2). 
Based on available virological and clinical data from adult patients, no benefit is expected in patients with 
strains resistant to multiple protease inhibitors (≥ 4 PI mutations).  
The choice of Atazanavir Mylan in treatment-experienced adult and paediatric patients should be based on 
individual viral resistance testing and the patient’s treatment history (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Posology 
Adults 
The recommended dose of atazanavir is 300 mg once daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg once daily and with 
food. Ritonavir is used as a booster of atazanavir pharmacokinetics (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). See also 
section 4.4, Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions. 
Paediatric patients (6 years to less than 18 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg): The dose of atazanavir 
capsules for paediatric patients is based on body weight as shown in Table 1 and should not exceed the 
recommended adult dose. Atazanavir Mylan capsules must be taken with ritonavir and have to be taken with 
food.  
Table 1:   Dose for paediatric patients (6 years to less than 18 years of age and weighing at least 15 
kg) for Atazanavir Mylan capsules with ritonavir 
Body Weight (kg) 
Atazanavir Mylan once daily 
dose 
ritonavir once daily dosea 
15 to less than 35  
200 mg  
at least 35  
300 mg  
a Ritonavir capsules, tablets or oral solution.  
100 mg 
100 mg  
Paediatric patients (at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg): Other formulations of this medicine 
may be available for paediatric patients at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg (see relevant 
Summary of Product Characteristics for alternative forms). Switching to capsules from other formulations is 
encouraged as soon as patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
When transitioning between formulations, a change in dose may be needed. Consult the dosing table for the 
specific formulation (see relevant Summary of Product Characteristics). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is needed. Atazanavir Mylan with ritonavir is not recommended in patients 
undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.4, and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Atazanavir with ritonavir has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Atazanavir Mylan with 
ritonavir should be used with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment. Atazanavir Mylan with 
ritonavir must not be used in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3, 4.4, and 
5.2).  
In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the initial recommended ritonavir-boosted regimen (see section 4.4), 
unboosted atazanavir could be maintained in patients with mild hepatic impairment at a dose of 400 mg and 
in patients with moderate hepatic impairment with a reduced dose of 300 mg once daily with food (see 
section 5.2). Unboosted atazanavir must not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
During the second and third trimesters of pregnancy: 
Atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg may not provide sufficient exposure to atazanavir, especially when 
the activity of atazanavir or the whole regimen may be compromised due to drug resistance. Since there are 
limited data available and due to inter-patient variability during pregnancy, Therapeutic Drug Monitoring 
(TDM) may be considered to ensure adequate exposure.  
The risk of a further decrease in atazanavir exposure is expected when atazanavir is given with medicinal 
products known to reduce its exposure (e.g., tenofovir disoproxil or H2-receptor antagonists). 
• 
• 
If tenofovir disoproxil or an H2-receptor antagonist is needed, a dose increase to atazanavir 400 mg with 
ritonavir 100 mg with TDM may be considered (see sections 4.6 and 5.2).  
It is not recommended to use atazanavir with ritonavir for pregnant patients who are receiving both 
tenofovir disoproxil and an H2-receptor antagonist.  
(See section 4.4, Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions) 
During postpartum: 
Following a possible decrease in atazanavir exposure during the second and third trimester, atazanavir 
exposures might increase during the first two months after delivery (see section 5.2). Therefore, postpartum 
patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions. 
• 
During this time, postpartum patients should follow the same dose recommendation as for non-
pregnant patients, including those for co-administration of medicinal products known to affect 
atazanavir exposure (see section 4.5). 
Paediatric patients (less than 3 months of age) 
Atazanavir Mylan should not be used in children less than 3 months because of safety concerns especially 
taking into account the potential risk of kernicterus. 
Method of administration  
For oral use. The capsules should be swallowed whole.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atazanavir Mylan is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 
5.2). Atazanavir Mylan with ritonavir is contraindicated in patients with moderate hepatic insufficiency (see 
sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.2). 
Co-administration with simvastatin or lovastatin (see section 4.5).  
Combination of rifampicin (see section 4.5).  
Combination of the PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(PAH) only (see section 4.5). For co-administration of sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction see 
sections 4.4 and 4.5.  
Co-administration with medicinal products that are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome P450 
and have narrow therapeutic windows (e.g., quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole, terfenadine, 
cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil, triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on 
parenterally administered midazolam, see section 4.5) lomitapide, and ergot alkaloids, particularly, 
ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine) (see section 4.5).  
Co-administration with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose 
combination (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with products containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with apalutamide (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Co-administration of atazanavir with ritonavir at doses greater than 100 mg once daily has not been clinically 
evaluated. The use of higher ritonavir doses may alter the safety profile of atazanavir (cardiac effects, 
hyperbilirubinaemia) and therefore is not recommended. Only when atazanavir with ritonavir is 
co-administered with efavirenz, a dose increase of ritonavir to 200 mg once daily could be considered. In this 
instance, close clinical monitoring is warranted (see Interaction with other Medicinal Products below).  
Patients with coexisting conditions 
Hepatic impairment 
Atazanavir is primarily hepatically metabolised and increased plasma concentrations were observed in 
patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). The safety and efficacy of atazanavir has not 
been established in patients with significant underlying liver disorders. Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C 
and treated with combination antiretroviral therapy are at an increased risk for severe and potentially fatal 
hepatic adverse reactions. In case of concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer also to 
the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for these medicinal products (see section 4.8).  
Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis, have an increased frequency 
of liver function abnormalities during combination antiretroviral therapy and should be monitored according 
to standard practice. If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such patients, interruption or 
discontinuation of treatment must be considered.  
Renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with renal impairment. However, Atazanavir Mylan is not 
recommended in patients undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
QT prolongation 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose-related asymptomatic prolongations in PR interval with atazanavir have been observed in clinical 
studies. Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR prolongations. In patients with 
pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher atrioventricular or complex bundle-branch 
block), Atazanavir Mylan should be used with caution and only if the benefits exceed the risk (see section 
5.1). Particular caution should be used when prescribing Atazanavir Mylan in association with medicinal 
products which have the potential to increase the QT interval and/or in patients with pre-existing risk factors 
(bradycardia, long congenital QT, electrolyte imbalances (see sections 4.8 and 5.3).  
Haemophiliac patients 
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and haemarthroses, 
in type A and B haemophiliac patients treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor 
VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although the 
mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should therefore be made aware of the 
possibility of increased bleeding.  
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral therapy. Such 
changes may in part be linked to the disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in some cases evidence 
for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating this to any particular 
treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to established HIV treatment 
guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate.  
In clinical studies, atazanavir (with or without ritonavir) has been shown to induce dyslipidaemia to a lesser 
extent than comparators.  
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Reversible elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl 
transferase (UGT) have occurred in patients receiving atazanavir (see section 4.8). Hepatic transaminase 
elevations that occur with elevated bilirubin in patients receiving Atazanavir Mylan should be evaluated for 
alternative aetiologies. Alternative antiretroviral therapy to Atazanavir Mylan may be considered if jaundice 
or scleral icterus is unacceptable to a patient. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not recommended because it 
may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  
Indinavir is also associated with indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia due to inhibition of UGT. 
Combinations of atazanavir and indinavir have not been studied and co-administration of these medicinal 
products is not recommended (see section 4.5).  
Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions 
The recommended standard treatment is atazanavir boosted with ritonavir, ensuring optimal pharmacokinetic 
parameters and level of virologic suppression. 
The withdrawal of ritonavir from the boosted regimen of atazanavir is not recommended, but may be 
considered in adults patients at the dose of 400 mg once daily with food only under the following combined 
restrictive conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
absence of prior virologic failure 
undetectable viral load during the last 6 months under current regimen 
viral strains not harbouring HIV resistance-associated mutations (RAMs) to current regimen. 
Atazanavir given without ritonavir should not be considered in patients treated with a backbone regimen 
containing tenofovir disoproxil and with other concomitant medications that reduce atazanavir bioavailability 
(see section 4.5 In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the recommended atazanavir boosted regimen) or in 
case of perceived challenging compliance. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atazanavir given without ritonavir should not be used in pregnant patients given that it could result in 
suboptimal exposure of particular concern for the mother infection and vertical transmission. 
Cholelithiasis  
Cholelithiasis has been reported in patients receiving atazanavir (see section 4.8). Some patients required 
hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. If signs or symptoms of 
cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered.  
Chronic kidney disease 
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has been 
reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown an 
association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the renal 
function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.8). 
Nephrolithiasis 
Nephrolithiasis has been reported in patients receiving atazanavir (see section 4.8). Some patients required 
hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. In some cases, nephrolithiasis has 
been associated with acute renal failure or renal insufficiency. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis occur, 
temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered.  
Immune reactivation syndrome 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, such 
reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant examples 
are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, and Pneumocystis jirovecii 
pneumonia. Any inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. 
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to occur 
in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events 
can occur many months after initiation of treatment.  
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, 
severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been reported particularly 
in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy 
(CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience joint aches and pain, joint 
stiffness or difficulty in movement.  
Rash and associated syndromes 
Rashes are usually mild -to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks of 
starting therapy with atazanavir.  
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions and drug rash with eosinophilia 
and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. Patients 
should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin reactions. Atazanavir should be 
discontinued if severe rash develops.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The best results in managing these events come from early diagnosis and immediate interruption of any 
suspect medicines. If the patient has developed SJS or DRESS associated with the use of atazanavir, 
atazanavir may not be restarted.  
Interactions with other medicinal products 
The combination of Atazanavir Mylan with atorvastatin is not recommended (see section 4.5).  
Co-administration of Atazanavir Mylan with nevirapine or efavirenz is not recommended (see section 4.5).  
If the co-administration of Atazanavir Mylan with an NNRTI is required, an increase in the dose of both 
Atazanavir Mylan and ritonavir to 400 mg and 200 mg, respectively, in combination with efavirenz could be 
considered with close clinical monitoring.  
Atazanavir is metabolised principally by CYP3A4. Co-administration of Atazanavir Mylan and medicinal 
products that induce CYP3A4 is not recommended (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).  
PDE5 inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction: particular caution should be used when 
prescribing PDE5 inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in 
patients receiving Atazanavir Mylan. Co-administration of Atazanavir Mylan with these medicinal products 
is expected to substantially increase their concentrations and may result in PDE5-associated adverse 
reactions such as hypotension, visual changes, and priapism (see section 4.5).  
Co-administration of voriconazole and Atazanavir Mylan with ritonavir is not recommended, unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk justifies the use of voriconazole.  
In the majority of patients, a reduction in both voriconazole and atazanavir exposures are expected. In a 
small number of patients without a functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly increased voriconazole 
exposures are expected (see section 4.5).  
Concomitant use of Atazanavir Mylan/ritonavir and fluticasone or other glucocorticoids that are metabolised 
by CYP3A4 is not recommended unless the potential benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of systemic 
corticosteroid effects, including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression (see section 4.5).  
Concomitant use of salmeterol and Atazanavir Mylan may result in increased cardiovascular adverse events 
associated with salmeterol. Co-administration of salmeterol and Atazanavir Mylan is not recommended (see 
section 4.5).  
The absorption of atazanavir may be reduced in situations where gastric pH is increased irrespective of 
cause.  
Co-administration of Atazanavir Mylan with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended (see section 4.5). If 
the combination of Atazanavir Mylan with a proton pump inhibitor is judged unavoidable, close clinical 
monitoring is recommended in combination with an increase in the dose of atazanavir to 400 mg with 
100 mg of ritonavir; doses of proton pump inhibitors comparable to omeprazole 20 mg should not be 
exceeded.  
Co-administration of atazanavir with other hormonal contraceptives or oral contraceptives containing 
progestogens other than norgestimate or norethindrone has not been studied, and therefore should be avoided 
(see section 4.5).  
Paediatric population 
Safety 
Asymptomatic PR interval prolongation was more frequent in paediatric patients than adults. Asymptomatic 
first- and second-degree AV block was reported in paediatric patients (see section 4.8). Caution should be 
used with medicinal products known to induce PR prolongations. In paediatric patients with pre-existing 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conduction problems (second degree or higher atrioventricular or complex bundle-branch block), Atazanavir 
Mylan should be used with caution and only if the benefits exceed the risk. Cardiac monitoring is 
recommended based on the presence of clinical findings (e.g., bradycardia).  
Efficacy 
Atazanavir/ritonavir is not effective in viral strains harbouring multiple mutations of resistance. 
Excipients 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency, or glucose-galactose 
malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
When atazanavir and ritonavir are co-administered, the metabolic drug interaction profile for ritonavir may 
predominate because ritonavir is a more potent CYP3A4 inhibitor than atazanavir. The Summary of Product 
Characteristics for ritonavir must be consulted before initiation of therapy with atazanavir and ritonavir.  
Atazanavir is metabolised in the liver through CYP3A4. It inhibits CYP3A4. Therefore, atazanavir is 
contraindicated with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index: 
quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil, triazolam, 
orally administered midazolam, lomitapide, and ergot alkaloids, particularly ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of atazanavir with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-
dose combination is contraindicated because of the increase in grazoprevir and elbasvir plasma 
concentrations and potential for the increase in risk of ALT elevations associated with increased grazoprevir 
concentrations (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of atazanavir with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination is 
contraindicated because of the potential increase in the risk of ALT elevations due to a significant 
increase in glecaprevir and pibrentasvir plasma concentrations (see section 4.3). 
Other interactions 
Interactions between atazanavir and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (increase is 
indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”). If available, 90% confidence intervals (CI) are shown 
in parentheses. The studies presented in Table 2 were conducted in healthy subjects unless otherwise noted. 
Of importance, many studies were conducted with unboosted atazanavir, which is not the recommended 
regimen of atazanavir (see section 4.4).  
If withdrawal of ritonavir is medically warranted under restrictive conditions (see section 4.4), special 
attention should be given to atazanavir interactions that may differ in the absence of ritonavir (see 
information below Table 2). 
Table 2:  Interactions between atazanavir and other medicinal products 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
ANTI-HCV AGENTS 
Grazoprevir 200 mg once daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↑43% (↑30% ↑57%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑12% (↑1% ↑24%) 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir and 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
(atazanavir 300 mg / ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑23% (↑13% ↑134%) 
Grazoprevir AUC: ↑958% (↑678% ↑1339%) 
Grazoprevir Cmax: ↑524% (↑342% ↑781%) 
Grazoprevir Cmin: ↑1064% (↑696% ↑1602%) 
Grazoprevir concentrations were greatly 
increased when co-administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Elbasvir 50 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg / ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑7% (↓2% ↑17%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑2% (↓4% ↑8%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑15% (↑2% ↑29%) 
Sofosbuvir 400 mg / 
velpatasvir 100 
mg/voxilaprevir 100 mg single 
dose* 
(atazanavir 300 mg / ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Elbasvir AUC: ↑376% (↑307% ↑456%) 
Elbasvir Cmax: ↑315% (↑246% ↑397%) 
Elbasvir Cmin: ↑545% (↑451% ↑654%) 
Elbasvir concentrations were increased when 
co-administered with atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Sofosbuvir AUC: ↑40% (↑25% ↑57%) 
Sofosbuvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑9% ↑52%) 
Velpatasvir AUC: ↑93% (↑58%↑136%) 
Velpatasvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑7% ↑56%) 
Voxilaprevir AUC: ↑331% (↑276% 
↑393%) 
Voxilaprevir Cmax: ↑342% (↑265%↑435%) 
*Lack of pharmacokinetics interaction 
bounds 70-143% 
Effect on atazanavir and ritonavir exposure 
has not been studied. 
Expected: 
↔ Atazanavir 
↔ Ritonavir  
The mechanism of interaction between 
atazanavir/ritonavir and 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir is 
inhibition of OATP1B, P-gp, and CYP3A. 
Glecaprevir 300 mg / 
pibrentasvir 120 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg / ritonavir 100 
mg once daily*) 
Glecaprevir AUC: ↑553% (↑424%↑714%) 
Glecaprevir Cmax: ↑306% (↑215% ↑423%) 
Glecaprevir Cmin: ↑1330% (↑885% 
↑1970%) 
Pibrentasvir AUC: ↑64% (↑48% ↑82%)  
Pibrentasvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑15% ↑45%) 
Pibrentasvir Cmin: ↑129% (↑95% ↑168%) 
*Effect of atazanavir and ritonavir on the 
10 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated because 
of a significant increase 
in grazoprevir plasma 
concentrations and an 
associated potential 
increase in the risk of 
ALT elevations 
(see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with 
voxilaprevir- 
containing products is 
expected to increase 
the concentration of 
voxilaprevir. Co-
administration of 
atazanavir with 
voxilaprevir-
containing regimens is 
not recommended. 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir 
is contraindicated 
because of the potential 
increase in the risk of 
ALT elevations due to a 
significant increase in 
glecaprevir and 
pibrentasvir plasma 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
first dose of glecaprevir and pibrentasvir 
is reported. 
concentrations (see 
section 4.3) 
ANTIPLATELETS 
Ticagrelor 
The mechanism of the interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Clopidogrel 
The mechanism of the interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and or/ritonavir. 
Prasugrel 
The mechanism of the interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and or/ritonavir. 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with 
ticagrelor is not 
recommended due to 
potential increase in the 
antiplatelet activity of 
ticagrelor. 
Co-administration with 
clopidogrel is not 
recommended due to 
potential reduction of 
the antiplatelet activity 
of clopidogrel. 
No dose adjustment is 
needed when prasugrel 
is co-administered with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir). 
ANTI-RETROVIRALS 
Protease inhibitors: The co-administration of atazanavir/ritonavir and other protease inhibitors has not been 
studied but would be expected to increase exposure to other protease inhibitors. Therefore, such 
co-administration is not recommended.  
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily)  
Studies conducted in HIV-infected 
patients.  
Atazanavir AUC: ↑250% (↑144% ↑403%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑120% (↑56% ↑211%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑713% (↑359% ↑1339%)*  
Ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily is used as a 
booster of atazanavir 
pharmacokinetics. 
*In a combined analysis, atazanavir 300 mg 
and ritonavir 100 mg (n=33) was compared to 
atazanavir 400 mg without ritonavir (n=28).  
The mechanism of interaction between 
atazanavir and ritonavir is CYP3A4 
inhibition.  
Indinavir is associated with indirect 
unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia due to 
inhibition of UGT.  
Indinavir 
Nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
Lamivudine 150 mg twice daily 
+ zidovudine 300 mg twice daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)  
No significant effect on lamivudine and 
zidovudine concentrations was observed.  
11 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir and indinavir 
is not recommended 
(see section 4.4).  
Based on these data and 
because ritonavir is not 
expected to have a 
significant impact on 
the pharmacokinetics of 
NRTIs, the co-
administration of these 
medicinal products and 
atazanavir is not 
 
 
 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
expected to significantly 
alter the exposure of the 
co-administered 
medicinal products.  
Didanosine should be 
taken at the fasted state 
2 hours after atazanavir 
taken with food. The co-
administration of 
stavudine with 
atazanavir is not 
expected to significantly 
alter the exposure of 
stavudine.  
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Abacavir 
Didanosine (buffered tablets) 
200 mg/stavudine 40 mg, both 
single dose  
(atazanavir 400 mg single dose)  
The co-administration of abacavir and 
atazanavir is not expected to significantly alter 
the exposure of abacavir.  
Atazanavir, simultaneous administration with 
ddI+d4T (fasted)  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓87% (↓92% ↓79%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓89% (↓94% ↓82%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓84% (↓90% ↓73%)  
Atazanavir, dosed 1 hr after ddI+d4T (fasted)  
Atazanavir AUC: ↔3% (↓36% ↑67%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑12% (↓33% ↑18%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔3% (↓39% ↑73%)  
Atazanavir concentrations were greatly 
decreased when co-administered with 
didanosine (buffered tablets) and stavudine. 
The mechanism of interaction is a reduced 
solubility of atazanavir with increasing pH 
related to the presence of anti-acid agent in 
didanosine buffered tablets.  
No significant effect on didanosine and 
stavudine concentrations was observed.  
Didanosine (enteric coated 
capsules) 400 mg single dose  
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Didanosine (with food)  
Didanosine AUC: ↓34% (↓41% ↓27%)  
Didanosine Cmax: ↓38% (↓48% ↓26%)  
Didanosine Cmin: ↑25% (↓8% ↑69%)  
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is equivalent to 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil. 
Studies conducted in HIV-infected 
patients  
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed when 
administered with enteric-coated didanosine, 
but administration with food decreased 
didanosine concentrations.  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓22% (↓35% ↓6%) *  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓16% (↓30% ↔0%) *  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓23% (↓43% ↑2%) *  
*In a combined analysis from several clinical 
studies, atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg co-
administered with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate 300 mg (n=39) was compared to 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg (n=33).  
The efficacy of atazanavir/ritonavir in 
combination with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in treatment-experienced patients 
12 
When co-administered 
with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate, it is 
recommended that 
atazanavir 300 mg be 
given with ritonavir 100 
mg and tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate 300 
mg (all as a single dose 
with food). 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
has been demonstrated in clinical study 045 
and in treatment naïve patients in clinical 
study 138 (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). The 
mechanism of interaction between atazanavir 
and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is unknown.  
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate AUC: ↑37% 
(↑30% ↑45%)  
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmax: ↑34% 
(↑20% ↑51%)  
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmin: ↑29% 
(↑21% ↑36%)  
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is equivalent to 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Patients should be 
closely monitored for 
tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate-associated 
adverse reactions, 
including renal 
disorders.  
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Atazanavir (pm): all administered with food  
Atazanavir AUC: ↔0% (↓9% ↑10%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑17% (↑8% ↑27%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓42% (↓51% ↓31%)*  
Co-administration of 
efavirenz and atazanavir 
is not recommended 
(see section 4.4).  
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 200 mg once daily)  
Nevirapine 200 mg twice daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Study conducted in HIV-infected 
patients.  
Atazanavir (pm): all administered with food  
Atazanavir AUC: ↔6% (↓10% ↑26%) */**  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔9% (↓5% ↑26%) */**  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔12% (↓16% ↑49%) */**  
*When compared to Atazanavir 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once daily in the 
evening without efavirenz. This decrease in 
atazanavir Cmin might negatively impact the 
efficacy of atazanavir. The mechanism of 
efavirenz/atazanavir interaction is CYP3A4 
induction. 
**Based on historical comparison.  
Nevirapine AUC: ↑26% (↑17% ↑36%)  
Nevirapine Cmax: ↑21% (↑11% ↑32%)  
Nevirapine Cmin : ↑35% (↑25% ↑47%)  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓19% (↓35% ↑2%) *  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔2% (↓15% ↑24%) *  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓59% (↓73% ↓40%) *  
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg and 
ritonavir 100 mg without nevirapine. This 
decrease in atazanavir Cmin might negatively 
impact the efficacy of atazanavir. The 
mechanism of nevirapine/atazanavir 
interaction is CYP3A4 induction.  
Co-administration of 
nevirapine and 
atazanavir is not 
recommended (see 
section 4.4).  
Integrase Inhibitors  
Raltegravir 400 mg twice daily  
(atazanavir/ritonavir)  
Raltegravir AUC: ↑41%  
Raltegravir Cmax: ↑24%  
Raltegravir C12hr: ↑77%  
No dose adjustment 
required for raltegravir.  
The mechanism is UGT1A1 inhibition.  
13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
ANTIBIOTICS 
Clarithromycin 500 mg twice 
daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)  
Clarithromycin AUC: ↑94% (↑75% ↑116%)  
Clarithromycin Cmax: ↑50% (↑32% ↑71%)  
Clarithromycin Cmin: ↑160% (↑135% ↑188%)  
14-OH clarithromycin  
14-OH clarithromycin AUC: ↓70% (↓74% 
↓66%)  
14-OH clarithromycin Cmax: ↓72% (↓76% 
↓67%)  
14-OH clarithromycin Cmin: ↓62% (↓66% 
↓58%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑28% (↑16% ↑43%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔6% (↓7% ↑20%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑91% (↑66% ↑121%)  
A dose reduction of clarithromycin may result 
in subtherapeutic concentrations of 14-OH 
clarithromycin.  
The mechanism of the 
clarithromycin/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition.  
ANTIFUNGALS 
Ketoconazole 200 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)  
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed.  
Itraconazole  
Voriconazole 200 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily)  
Subjects with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele. 
Itraconazole, like ketoconazole, is a potent 
inhibitor as well as a substrate of CYP3A4.  
Based on data obtained with other boosted PIs 
and ketoconazole, where ketoconazole AUC 
showed a 3-fold increase, atazanavir/ritonavir 
is expected to increase ketoconazole or 
itraconazole concentrations.  
Voriconazole AUC: ↓33% (↓42% ↓22%)  
Voriconazole Cmax: ↓10% (↓22% ↓4%)  
Voriconazole Cmin: ↓39% (↓49% ↓28%)  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓12% (↓18% ↓5%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓13% (↓20% ↓4%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓ 20 % (↓28 % ↓10%) 
Ritonavir AUC: ↓12% (↓17% ↓7%)  
Ritonavir Cmax: ↓9% (↓17% ↔0%)  
Ritonavir Cmin: ↓25% (↓35% ↓14%)  
In the majority of patients with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele, a reduction in 
both voriconazole and atazanavir exposures 
are expected.  
14 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
No recommendation 
regarding dose 
reduction can be made; 
therefore, caution 
should be exercised if 
atazanavir is 
co-administered with 
clarithromycin.  
Ketoconazole and 
itraconazole should be 
used cautiously with 
atazanavir/ritonavir. 
High doses of 
ketoconazole and 
itraconazole 
(>200 mg/day) are not 
recommended.  
Co-administration of 
voriconazole and 
atazanavir with ritonavir 
is not recommended 
unless an assessment of 
the benefit/risk to the 
patient justifies the use 
of voriconazole (see 
section 4.4).  
At the time 
voriconazole treatment 
is required, a patient’s 
CYP2C19 genotype 
should be performed if 
feasible.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Voriconazole 50 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily)  
Subjects without a functional 
CYP2C19 allele.  
Voriconazole AUC: ↑561% (↑451% ↑699%)  
Voriconazole Cmax: ↑438% (↑355% ↑539%)  
Voriconazole Cmin: ↑765% (↑571% ↑1,020%)  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓20% (↓35% ↓3%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓19% (↓34% ↔0.2%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓31 % (↓46 % ↓13%) 
Ritonavir AUC: ↓11% (↓20% ↓1%)  
Ritonavir Cmax: ↓11% (↓24% ↑4%)  
Ritonavir Cmin: ↓19% (↓35% ↑1%)  
In a small number of patients without a 
functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly 
increased voriconazole exposures are 
expected.  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Therefore if the 
combination is 
unavoidable, the 
following 
recommendations are 
made according to the 
CYP2C19 status:  
- in patients with at least 
one functional 
CYP2C19 allele, close 
clinical monitoring for a 
loss of both 
voriconazole (clinical 
signs) and atazanavir 
(virologic response) 
efficacy is 
recommended.  
- in patients without a 
functional CYP2C19 
allele, close clinical and 
laboratory monitoring 
of voriconazole-
associated adverse 
events is recommended  
If genotyping is not 
feasible, full monitoring 
of safety and efficacy 
should be performed.  
Fluconazole 200 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 
100 mg once daily)  
Atazanavir and fluconazole concentrations 
were not significantly modified when 
Atazanavir /ritonavir was co-administered 
with fluconazole.  
No dosage adjustments 
are needed for 
fluconazole and 
atazanavir.  
ANTIMYCOBACTERIAL 
Rifabutin 150 mg twice weekly  
(atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 
100 mg once daily)  
Rifabutin AUC: ↑48% (↑19% ↑84%)**  
Rifabutin Cmax: ↑149% (↑103% ↑206%)**  
Rifabutin Cmin: ↑40% (↑5% ↑87%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin AUC: ↑990% 
(↑714% ↑1361%)**  
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin Cmax: ↑677% (↑513% 
↑883%)**  
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin Cmin: ↑1045% 
(↑715% ↑1510%)** 
**When compared to rifabutin 150 mg once 
daily alone. Total rifabutin and 25-O-
desacetyl-rifabutin AUC: ↑119% (↑78% 
↑169%). 
In previous studies, the pharmacokinetics of 
atazanavir was not altered by rifabutin.  
15 
When given with 
atazanavir, the 
recommended dose of 
rifabutin is 150 mg 3 
times per week on set 
days (for example 
Monday-Wednesday-
Friday). Increased 
monitoring for 
rifabutin-associated 
adverse reactions 
including neutropenia 
and uveitis is warranted 
due to an expected 
increase in exposure to 
rifabutin. Further 
dosage reduction of 
rifabutin to 150 mg 
twice weekly on set 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Rifampicin  
ANTIPSYCHOTICS 
Quetiapine 
Rifampicin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and 
has been shown to cause a 72% decrease in 
atazanavir AUC which can result in 
virological failure and resistance 
development. During attempts to overcome 
the decreased exposure by increasing the dose 
of atazanavir or other protease inhibitors with 
ritonavir, a high frequency of liver reactions 
was seen.  
Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir, 
concentrations of quetiapine are expected to 
increase. 
Lurasidone 
Atazanavir is expected to increase plasma 
levels of lurasidone due to CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
days is recommended 
for patients in whom the 
150 mg dose 3 times per 
week is not tolerated. It 
should be kept in mind 
that the twice weekly 
dosage of 150 mg may 
not provide an optimal 
exposure to rifabutin 
thus leading to a risk of 
rifamycin resistance and 
a treatment failure. No 
dose adjustment is 
needed for atazanavir.  
The combination of 
rifampicin and 
atazanavir is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).  
Co-administration of 
quetiapine with 
atazanavir is 
contraindicated as 
atazanavir may increase 
quetiapine-related 
toxicity. Increased 
plasma concentrations 
of quetiapine may lead 
to coma (see section 
4.3). 
Co-administration of 
lurasidone with 
atazanavir is 
contraindicated as this 
may increase 
lurasidone-related 
toxicity 
(see section 4.3). 
ACID REDUCING AGENTS 
H2-Receptor antagonists  
Without tenofovir  
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended dose 
300/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily   Atazanavir AUC: ↓18% (↓25% ↑1%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓20% (↓32% ↓7%)  
For patients not taking 
tenofovir, if atazanavir 
300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg and H2-receptor 
16 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔1% (↓16% ↑18%)  
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily   Atazanavir AUC: ↓23% (↓32% ↓14%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓23% (↓33% ↓12%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓20% (↓31% ↓8%)  
In healthy volunteers with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose of 400/100 mg 
once daily  
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily   Atazanavir AUC: ↔3% (↓14% ↑22%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔2% (↓13% ↑8%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓14% (↓32% ↑8%)  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
antagonists are 
co-administered, a dose 
equivalent to famotidine 
20 mg twice daily 
should not be exceeded. 
If a higher dose of an 
H2-receptor antagonist 
is required (e.g., 
famotidine 40 mg twice 
daily or equivalent) an 
increase of the 
atazanavir/ritonavir 
dose from 300/100 mg 
to 400/100 mg can be 
considered. 
With tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily (equivalent to 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil) 
For patients who are 
taking tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate,  
If atazanavir/ritonavir 
with both tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate and 
an H2-receptor 
antagonist are 
co-administered, a dose 
increase of atazanavir to 
400 mg with 100 mg of 
ritonavir is 
recommended. A dose 
equivalent to famotidine 
40 mg twice daily 
should not be exceeded.  
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended dose of 
300/100 mg once daily  
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily   Atazanavir AUC: ↓21% (↓34% ↓4%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓21% (↓36% ↓4%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓19% (↓37% ↑5%)*  
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily   Atazanavir AUC: ↓24% (↓36% ↓11%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓23% (↓36% ↓8%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓25% (↓47% ↑7%)*  
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose of 
400/100 mg once daily  
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑18% (↑6.5% ↑30%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑18% (↑6.7% ↑31%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑24 % (↑10% ↑39%)*  
Atazanavir AUC: ↔2.3% (↓13% ↑10%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔5% (↓17% ↑8.4%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔1.3% (↓10% ↑15)*  
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg once 
daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily and 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg all as a 
single dose with food.  
When compared to atazanavir 300 mg with 
ritonavir 100 mg without tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate, atazanavir concentrations are 
expected to be additionally decreased by 
about 20%. 
The mechanism of interaction is decreased 
solubility of atazanavir as intra-gastric pH 
increases with H2-blockers.  
Proton pump inhibitors 
17 
 
 
 
  
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Omeprazole 40 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Omeprazole 20 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Atazanavir (am): 2 hr after omeprazole  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓61% (↓65% ↓55%)  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓66% (↓62% ↓49%)  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓65% (↓71% ↓59%)  
Atazanavir (am): 1 hr after omeprazole  
Atazanavir AUC: ↓30% (↓43% ↓14%)*  
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓31% (↓42% ↓17%)*  
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓31% (↓46% ↓12%)*  
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg once 
daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily.  
The decrease in AUC, Cmax, and Cmin was not 
mitigated when an increased dose of 
atazanavir /ritonavir (400/100 mg once daily) 
was temporally separated from omeprazole by 
12 hours. Although not studied, similar results 
are expected with other proton pump 
inhibitors. This decrease in atazanavir 
exposure might negatively impact the efficacy 
of atazanavir. The mechanism of interaction is 
decreased solubility of atazanavir as intra-
gastric pH increases with proton pump 
inhibitors.  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with ritonavir 
and proton pump 
inhibitors is not 
recommended. If the 
combination is judged 
unavoidable, close 
clinical monitoring is 
recommended in 
combination with an 
increase in the dose of 
atazanavir to 400 mg 
with 100 mg of 
ritonavir; doses of 
proton pump inhibitors 
comparable to 
omeprazole 20 mg 
should not be exceeded 
(see section 4.4).  
Antacids 
Antacids and medicinal 
products containing buffers 
Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir 
may be the consequence of increased gastric 
pH if antacids, including buffered medicinal 
products, are administered with atazanavir.  
Atazanavir should be 
administered 2 hours 
before or 1 hour after 
antacids or buffered 
medicinal products.  
ALPHA 1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin 
Potential for increased alfuzosin 
concentrations which can result in 
hypotension. The mechanism of interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or 
ritonavir.  
Co-administration of 
alfuzosin with 
atazanavir is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3)  
ANTICOAGULANTS 
Direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) 
Apixaban 
Rivaroxaban 
Potential for increased apixaban and 
rivaroxaban concentrations which can result in 
a higher risk of bleeding. 
The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of 
CYP3A4 / and P-gp by atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Co-administration of 
apixaban or rivaroxaban 
and atazanavir with 
ritonavir is not 
recommended. 
Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of both 
CYP3A4 and P-gp. 
18 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. The 
potential inhibition of P-gp by atazanavir is 
unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Potential for increased dabigatran 
concentrations which can result in a higher 
risk of bleeding. The mechanism of 
interaction is P-gp inhibition. 
Co-administration of 
dabigatran and 
atazanavir with ritonavir 
is not recommended. 
Dabigatran 
Edoxaban 
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor. 
Potential P-gp inhibition by atazanavir is 
unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Potential for increased edoxaban 
concentrations which can result in a higher 
risk of bleeding. The mechanism of 
interaction is P-gp inhibition by atazanavir 
/ritonavir. 
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor. 
Potential P-gp inhibition by atazanavir is 
unknown and cannot be excluded.  
Vitamin K antagonists 
Warfarin 
Co-administration with atazanavir has the 
potential to increase or decrease warfarin 
concentrations. 
ANTIEPILEPTICS 
Carbamazepine 
Atazanavir may increase plasma levels of 
carbamazepine due to CYP3A4 inhibition.  
Due to carbamazepine inducing effect, a 
reduction in atazanavir exposure cannot be 
ruled out. 
Phenytoin, phenobarbital 
Ritonavir may decrease plasma levels of 
phenytoin and/or phenobarbital due to 
CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 induction.  
19 
Exercise caution when 
edoxaban is used with 
atazanavir. 
Please refer to the 
edoxaban SmPC 
sections 4.2 and 4.5 for 
appropriate edoxaban 
dosage 
recommendations for 
co-administration with 
P-gp inhibitors. 
It is recommended that 
the International 
Normalised Ratio (INR) 
be monitored carefully 
during treatment with 
atazanavir, especially 
when commencing 
therapy.  
Carbamazepine should 
be used with caution in 
combination with 
atazanavir. If necessary, 
monitor carbamazepine 
serum concentrations 
and adjust the dose 
accordingly. Close 
monitoring of the 
patient's virologic 
response should be 
exercised.  
Phenobarbital and 
phenytoin should be 
used with caution in 
combination with 
atazanavir /ritonavir.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Due to phenytoin/phenobarbital inducing 
effect, a reduction in atazanavir exposure 
cannot be ruled out 
Lamotrigine 
Co-administration of lamotrigine and 
atazanavir/ritonavir may decrease lamotrigine 
plasma concentrations due to UGT1A4 
induction. 
ANTINEOPLASTICS AND IMMUNOSUPRESSANTS 
Antineoplastics  
Apalutamide 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
induction by apalutamide and CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Encorafenib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
20 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
When 
atazanavir/ritonavir is 
co-administered with 
either phenytoin or 
phenobarbital, a dose 
adjustment of phenytoin 
or phenobarbital may be 
required.  
Close monitoring of 
patient’s virologic 
response should be 
exercised.  
Lamotrigine should be 
used with caution in 
combination with 
atazanavir/ritonavir.  
If necessary, monitor 
lamotrigine 
concentrations and 
adjust the dose 
accordingly.  
Co-administration with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) is 
contraindicated due to 
the potential for 
decreased atazanavir 
and ritonavir plasma 
concentration with 
subsequent loss of 
virologic response and 
possible resistance to 
the class of protease 
inhibitors (see section 
4.3). In addition, serum 
concentrations of 
apalutamide may be 
increased when co-
administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir, 
resulting in the potential 
for serious adverse 
events including 
seizure. 
Avoid co-administration 
of encorafenib with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) due to 
potential for increase in 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Ivosidenib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Irinotecan 
Atazanavir inhibits UGT and may interfere 
with the metabolism of irinotecan, resulting in 
increased irinotecan toxicities.  
Immunosuppressants  
21 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
encorafenib plasma 
concentration and 
subsequent risk of 
serious adverse events 
such as QT interval 
prolongation. If 
co-administration of 
encorafenib with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) 
cannot be avoided, 
modify encorafenib 
dose as recommended 
for co-administration 
with strong and 
moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitors in the 
Summary of Product 
Characteristics of 
encorafenib. 
Avoid co-administration 
of ivosidenib with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) due to 
potential for increase in 
ivosidenib plasma 
concentration and 
subsequent risk of 
serious adverse events 
such as QT interval 
prolongation. If 
co-administration of 
ivosidenib with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) 
cannot be avoided, 
modify ivosidenib dose 
as recommended for 
co-administration with 
strong and moderate 
CYP3A4 inhibitors in 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics of 
ivosidenib. 
If atazanavir is 
co-administered with 
irinotecan, patients 
should be closely 
monitored for adverse 
events related to 
irinotecan.  
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Cyclosporin  
Tacrolimus  
Sirolimus  
Concentrations of these immunosuppressants 
may be increased when co-administered with 
atazanavir due to CYP3A4 inhibition.  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
More frequent 
therapeutic 
concentration 
monitoring of these 
medicinal products is 
recommended until 
plasma levels have been 
stabilised.  
CARDIOVASCULAR AGENTS 
Antiarrhythmics  
Amiodarone, Systemic lidocaine, 
Quinidine 
Calcium channel blockers  
Bepridil 
Concentrations of these antiarrhythmics may 
be increased when co-administered with 
atazanavir. The mechanism of amiodarone or 
systemic lidocaine/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A inhibition. Quinidine has a narrow 
therapeutic window and is contraindicated due 
to potential inhibition of CYP3A by 
atazanavir.  
Caution is warranted 
and therapeutic 
concentration 
monitoring is 
recommended when 
available. The 
concomitant use of 
quinidine is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).  
Atazanavir should not be used in combination 
with medicinal products that are substrates of 
CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index.  
Co-administration with 
bepridil is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3)  
Diltiazem 180 mg once daily  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)  
Diltiazem AUC: ↑125% (↑109% ↑141%)  
Diltiazem Cmax: ↑98% (↑78% ↑119%)  
Diltiazem Cmin: ↑142% (↑114% ↑173%)  
Desacetyl-diltiazem AUC: ↑165% (↑145% 
↑187%)  
Desacetyl-diltiazem Cmax: ↑172% (↑144% 
↑203%)  
Desacetyl-diltiazem Cmin: ↑121% (↑102% 
↑142%)  
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed. There was an 
increase in the maximum PR interval 
compared to atazanavir alone. Co-
administration of diltiazem and atazanavir 
/ritonavir has not been studied.  
The mechanism of diltiazem/atazanavir 
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition.  
Serum concentrations of verapamil may be 
increased by atazanavir due to CYP3A4 
inhibition.  
22 
Verapamil 
An initial dose 
reduction of diltiazem 
by 50% is 
recommended, with 
subsequent titration as 
needed and ECG 
monitoring.  
Caution should be 
exercised when 
verapamil is 
co-administered with 
atazanavir.  
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Dexamethasone and other 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) 
Co-administration with dexamethasone or 
other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may 
result in loss of therapeutic effect of 
atazanavir and development of resistance to 
atazanavir and/or ritonavir. Alternative 
corticosteroids should be considered. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
induction by dexamethasone and CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Fluticasone propionate 
intranasal 50 µg 4 times daily 
for 7 days  
(ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice 
daily) 
And 
Inhaled/Nasal Corticosteroids 
The fluticasone propionate plasma levels 
increased significantly, whereas the intrinsic 
cortisol levels decreased by approximately 
86% (90% confidence interval 82%- 89%). 
Greater effects may be expected when 
fluticasone propionate is inhaled. Systemic 
corticosteroid effects including Cushing's 
syndrome and adrenal suppression have been 
reported in patients receiving ritonavir and 
inhaled or intranasally administered 
fluticasone propionate; this could also occur 
with other corticosteroids metabolised via the 
P450 3A pathway, e.g., budesonide. The 
effects of high fluticasone systemic exposure 
on ritonavir plasma levels are yet unknown. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Concomitant use of atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) and other Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids is expected to produce the 
same effects.  
23 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration with 
corticosteroids (all 
routes of 
administration) that are 
metabolized by CYP3A, 
particularly for long 
term use, may increase 
the risk for development 
of systemic 
corticosteroid effects 
including Cushing’s 
syndrome and adrenal 
suppression. The 
potential benefit of 
treatment versus the risk 
of systemic 
corticosteroid effects 
should be considered. 
For co-administration of 
cutaneously 
administered 
corticosteroids sensitive 
to CYP3A inhibition, 
consult the Summary of 
Product Characteristics 
of the corticosteroid for 
condition or uses that 
augment its systemic 
absorption. 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir /ritonavir and 
these glucocorticoids 
metabolised by 
CYP3A4 is not 
recommended unless 
the potential benefit of 
treatment outweighs the 
risk of systemic 
corticosteroid effects 
(see section 4.4). A dose 
reduction of the 
glucocorticoid should 
be considered with close 
monitoring of local and 
systemic effects or a 
switch to a 
glucocorticoid, which is 
not a substrate for 
CYP3A4 (e.g., 
beclomethasone). 
Moreover, in case of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION 
PDE5 Inhibitors 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-administration 
with atazanavir may result in increased 
concentrations of the PDE5 inhibitor and an 
increase in PDE5-associated adverse events, 
including hypotension, visual changes, and 
priapism. The mechanism of this interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition.  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
withdrawal of 
glucocorticoids, 
progressive dose 
reduction may have to 
be performed over a 
longer period. 
Concomitant use of 
Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids and 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) may 
increase plasma 
concentrations of 
Inhaled/Nasal 
corticosteroids. Use 
with caution. Consider 
alternatives to 
Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids, 
particularly for long-
term use.   
Patients should be 
warned about these 
possible side effects 
when using PDE5 
inhibitors for erectile 
dysfunction with 
atazanavir (see section 
4.4).  
Also see 
PULMONARY 
ARTERIAL 
HYPERTENSION in 
this table for further 
information regarding 
co-administration of 
atazanavir with 
sildenafil.  
GONADOTROPIN RELEASING HORMONE (GnRH) RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Elagolix 
The mechanism of interaction is anticipated 
increase in elagolix exposure in the presence 
of CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or 
ritonavir. 
Concomitant use of 
elagolix 200 mg twice 
daily with atazanavir 
(with or without 
ritonavir) for more than 
1 month is not 
recommended due to the 
potential risk of adverse 
events such as bone loss 
24 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
 KINASE INHIBITORS 
 Fostamatinib 
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St. John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
Concomitant use of St. John’s wort with 
atazanavir may be expected to result in 
significant reduction in plasma levels of 
atazanavir. This effect may be due to an 
induction of CYP3A4. There is a risk of loss 
of therapeutic effect and development of 
resistance (see section 4.3).  
HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVES 
Ethinyloestradiol 25 μg + 
norgestimate  
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Ethinyloestradiol AUC: ↓19% (↓25% ↓13%)  
Ethinyloestradiol Cmax: ↓16% (↓26% ↓5%)  
Ethinyloestradiol Cmin: ↓37% (↓45% ↓29%)  
Norgestimate AUC: ↑85% (↑67% ↑105%)  
Norgestimate Cmax: ↑68% (↑51% ↑88%)  
Norgestimate Cmin: ↑102% (↑77% ↑131%)  
While the concentration of ethinyloestradiol 
was increased with atazanavir given alone, 
due to both UGT and CYP3A4 inhibition by 
atazanavir, the net effect of 
atazanavir/ritonavir is a decrease in 
ethinyloestradiol levels because of the 
inducing effect of ritonavir.  
25 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
and hepatic 
transaminase elevations. 
Limit concomitant use 
of elagolix 150 mg once 
daily with atazanavir 
(with or without 
ritonavir) to 6 months. 
Concomitant use of 
fostamatinib with 
atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) may 
increase the plasma 
concentration of R406, 
the active metabolite of 
fostamatinib. Monitor 
for toxicities of R406 
exposure resulting in 
dose-related adverse 
events such as 
hepatotoxicity and 
neutropenia. 
Fostamatinib dose 
reduction may be 
required. 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with products 
containing St. John’s 
wort is contraindicated.  
If an oral contraceptive 
is administered with 
atazanavir /ritonavir, it 
is recommended that the 
oral contraceptive 
contain at least 30 μg of 
ethinyloestradiol and 
that the patient be 
reminded of strict 
compliance with this 
contraceptive dosing 
regimen. Co-
administration of 
atazanavir /ritonavir 
with other hormonal 
contraceptives or oral 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
The increase in progestin exposure may lead 
to related side-effects (e.g., insulin resistance, 
dyslipidemia, acne and spotting), thus 
possibly affecting the compliance.  
Ethinyloestradiol 35 µg + 
norethindrone 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
Ethinyloestradiol AUC: ↑48% (↑31% ↑68%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmax: ↑15% (↓1% ↑32%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmin: ↑91% (↑57% ↑133%) 
Norethindrone AUC: ↑110% (↑68% ↑162%) 
Norethindrone Cmax: ↑67% (↑42% ↑196%) 
Norethindrone Cmin: ↑262% (↑157% ↑409%) 
The increase in progestin exposure may lead 
to related side effects (e.g., insulin resistance, 
dyslipidemia, acne and spotting), thus 
possibly affecting the compliance. 
Simvastatin and lovastatin are highly 
dependent on CYP3A4 for their metabolism 
and co-administration with atazanavir may 
result in increased concentrations.  
LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS 
HMG- CoA reductase inhibitors  
Simvastatin  
Lovastatin 
Atorvastatin 
The risk of myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis may also be increased with 
atorvastatin, which is also metabolised by 
CYP3A4.  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
contraceptives 
containing progestogens 
other than norgestimate 
has not been studied, 
and therefore should be 
avoided. An alternate 
reliable method of 
contraception is 
recommended.  
Co-administration of 
simvastatin or lovastatin 
with atazanavir is 
contraindicated due to 
an increased risk of 
myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis (see 
section 4.3).  
Co-administration of 
atorvastatin with 
atazanavir is not 
recommended. If the 
use of atorvastatin is 
considered strictly 
necessary, the lowest 
possible dose of 
atorvastatin should be 
administered with 
careful safety 
monitoring (see section 
4.4).  
Caution should be 
exercised.  
Pravastatin  
Fluvastatin 
Other lipid-modifying agents 
Lomitapide 
Although not studied, there is a potential for 
an increase in pravastatin or fluvastatin 
exposure when co-administered with protease 
inhibitors. Pravastatin is not metabolised by 
CYP3A4. Fluvastatin is partially metabolised 
by CYP2C9.  
Lomitapide is highly dependent on CYP3A4 
for metabolism and co-administration with 
atazanavir with ritonavir may result in 
increased concentrations. 
Co-administration of 
lomitapide and 
atazanavir with ritonavir 
is contraindicated due to 
26 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
a potential risk of 
markedly increased 
transaminase levels and 
hepatotoxicity (see 
section 4.3). 
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol 
Co-administration with atazanavir may result 
in increased concentrations of salmeterol and 
an increase in salmeterol- associated adverse 
events.  
Co-administration of 
salmeterol with 
atazanavir is not 
recommended (see 
section 4.4).  
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir.  
OPIOIDS 
Buprenorphine, once daily, 
stable maintenance dose  
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  
Buprenorphine AUC:↑67%  
Buprenorphine Cmax:↑37%  
Buprenorphine Cmin:↑69%  
Norbuprenorphine AUC:↑105%  
Norbuprenorphine Cmax:↑61%  
Norbuprenorphine Cmin:↑101%  
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 and 
UGT1A1 inhibition.  
Concentrations of atazanavir (when given 
with ritonavir) were not significantly affected.  
No significant effect on methadone 
concentrations was observed. Given that low 
dose ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) has been 
shown to have no significant effect on 
methadone concentrations, no interaction is 
expected if methadone is co-administered with 
atazanavir, based on these data.  
Methadone, stable maintenance 
dose  
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)  
PULMONARY ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION 
PDE5 Inhibitors 
Sildenafil 
SEDATIVES 
Benzodiazepines  
Co-administration with atazanavir may result 
in increased concentrations of the PDE5 
inhibitor and an increase in 
PDE5-inhibitor-associated adverse events.  
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir.  
27 
Co-administration with 
atazanavir with ritonavir 
warrants clinical 
monitoring for sedation 
and cognitive effects. A 
dose reduction of 
buprenorphine may be 
considered  
No dosage adjustment is 
necessary if methadone 
is co-administered with 
atazanavir.  
A safe and effective 
dose in combination 
with atazanavir has not 
been established for 
sildenafil when used to 
treat pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil, 
when used for the 
treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension, is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).  
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Interaction 
Midazolam  
Triazolam  
Midazolam and triazolam are extensively 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-administration 
with atazanavir may cause a large increase in 
the concentration of these benzodiazepines. 
No drug interaction study has been performed 
for the co-administration of atazanavir with 
benzodiazepines. Based on data for other 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma concentrations of 
midazolam are expected to be significantly 
higher when midazolam is given orally. Data 
from concomitant use of parenteral 
midazolam with other protease inhibitors 
suggest a possible 3-4-fold increase in 
midazolam plasma levels.  
Recommendations 
concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with 
triazolam or orally 
administered midazolam 
is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3), whereas 
caution should be used 
with co-administration 
of atazanavir and 
parenteral midazolam. If 
atazanavir is co-
administered with 
parenteral midazolam, it 
should be done in an 
intensive care unit 
(ICU) or similar setting 
which ensures close 
clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical 
management in case of 
respiratory depression 
and/or prolonged 
sedation. Dosage 
adjustment for 
midazolam should be 
considered, especially if 
more than a single dose 
of midazolam is 
administered.  
In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the recommended atazanavir-boosted regimen (see section 4.4) 
The same recommendations for drug drug interactions would apply except: 
- 
that co-administration is not recommended with tenofovir, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, 
proton pump inhibitors, and buprenorphine. 
that co-administration with famotidine is not recommended but if required, atazanavir without ritonavir 
should be administered either 2 hours after famotidine or 12 hours before. No single dose of famotidine 
should exceed 20 mg, and the total daily dose of famotidine should not exceed 40 mg. 
the need to consider that 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
co-administration of apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban and atazanavir without ritonavir may 
affect apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban concentrations 
co-administration of voriconazole and atazanavir without ritonavir may affect atazanavir 
concentrations 
co-administration of fluticasone and atazanavir without ritonavir may increase fluticasone 
concentrations relative to fluticasone given alone 
if an oral contraceptive is administered with atazanavir without ritonavir, it is recommended that 
the oral contraceptive contain no more than 30 µg of ethinyloestradiol 
no dose adjustment of lamotrigine is required 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
A moderate amount of data in pregnant women (between 300-1000 pregnancy outcomes) indicate no 
malformative toxicity of atazanavir. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
The use of Atazanavir Mylan with ritonavir may be considered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit 
justifies the potential risk.  
In clinical trial AI424-182 atazanavir/ritonavir (300/100 mg or 400/100 mg) in combination with 
zidovudine/lamivudine was administered to 41 pregnant women during the second or third trimester. Six of 
20 (30%) women on atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg and 13 of 21 (62%) women on atazanavir /ritonavir 
400/100 mg experienced grades 3 to 4 hyperbilirubinaemia. There were no cases of lactic acidosis observed 
in the clinical trial AI424-182.  
The study assessed 40 infants who received antiretroviral prophylactic treatment (which did not include 
atazanavir) and were negative for HIV-1 DNA at the time of delivery and/or during the first 6 months 
postpartum. Three of 20 infants (15%) born to women treated with atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg and four 
of 20 infants (20%) born to women treated with atazanavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg experienced grade 3-4 
bilirubin. There was no evidence of pathologic jaundice and six of 40 infants in this study received 
phototherapy for a maximum of 4 days. There were no reported cases of kernicterus in neonates.  
For dosing recommendations see section 4.2 and for pharmacokinetic data see section 5.2.  
It is not known whether Atazanavir Mylan with ritonavir administered to the mother during pregnancy will 
exacerbate physiological hyperbilirubinaemia and lead to kernicterus in neonates and infants. In the 
prepartum period, additional monitoring should be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Atazanavir has been detected in human milk. In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is 
recommended that women living with HIV do not breast-feed their infants. 
Fertility 
In a nonclinical fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus cycling 
with no effects on mating or fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Patients should be informed that dizziness has been reported during treatment with regimens containing 
atazanavir (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Atazanavir has been evaluated for safety in combination therapy with other antiretroviral medicinal products 
in controlled clinical trials in 1,806 adult patients receiving atazanavir 400 mg once daily (1,151 patients, 52 
weeks median duration and 152 weeks maximum duration) or atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily (655 patients, 96 weeks median duration and 108 weeks maximum duration).  
Adverse reactions were consistent between patients who received atazanavir 400 mg once daily and patients 
who received atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily, except that jaundice and elevated total 
bilirubin levels were reported more frequently with atazanavir plus ritonavir.  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among patients who received atazanavir 400 mg once daily or atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg 
once daily, the only adverse reactions of any severity reported very commonly with at least a possible 
relationship to regimens containing atazanavir and one or more NRTIs were nausea (20%), diarrhoea (10%), 
and jaundice (13%). Among patients receiving atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg, the frequency of 
jaundice was 19%. In the majority of cases, jaundice was reported within a few days to a few months after 
the initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).  
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has been 
reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown an 
association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the renal 
function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.4).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Assessment of adverse reactions for atazanavir is based on safety data from clinical studies and post-
marketing experience. Frequency is defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
Immune system disorders: 
uncommon: hypersensitivity  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Eye disorders: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders:  
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: 
uncommon: weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia, appetite 
increased  
uncommon: depression, disorientation, anxiety, insomnia, sleep 
disorder, abnormal dream  
common: headache;  
uncommon: peripheral neuropathy, syncope, amnesia, dizziness, 
somnolence, dysgeusia  
common: ocular icterus  
uncommon: torsades de pointesa  
rare: QTc prolongationa, oedema, palpitation  
uncommon: hypertension  
uncommon: dyspnoea  
common: vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, nausea, 
dyspepsia;  
uncommon: pancreatitis, gastritis, abdominal distension, 
stomatitis aphthous, flatulence, dry mouth  
common: jaundice;  
uncommon: hepatitis, cholelithiasisa, cholestasisa;  
rare: hepatosplenomegaly, cholecystitisa  
common: rash;  
uncommon: erythemia multiformea,b, toxic skin eruptionsa,b, 
drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) 
syndromea,b, angioedemaa, urticaria, alopecia, pruritus;  
rare: Stevens-Johnson syndromea,b, vesiculobullous rash, 
eczema, vasodilatation  
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders: 
uncommon: muscle atrophy, arthralgia, myalgia;  
rare: myopathy  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
uncommon: nephrolithiasisa, haematuria, proteinuria, 
pollakiuria, interstitial nephritis, chronic kidney diseasea;  
rare: kidney pain  
Reproductive system and breast disorders:  uncommon: gynaecomastia  
General disorders and administration site 
conditions: 
common: fatigue;  
uncommon: chest pain, malaise, pyrexia, asthenia;  
rare: gait disturbance  
a These adverse reactions were identified through post-marketing surveillance, however, the frequencies were estimated from a 
statistical calculation based on the total number of patients exposed to atazanavir in randomised controlled and other available 
clinical trials (n = 2321).  
b See description of selected adverse reactions for more details.  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination antiretroviral 
therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic infections may arise. 
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported; 
however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur many months after initiation 
of treatment (see section 4.4).  
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk factors, 
advanced HIV disease or long- term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). The frequency 
of this is unknown (see section 4.4).  
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section 4.4).  
Rash and associated syndromes  
Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks of 
starting therapy with atazanavir.  
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions and drug rash with eosinophilia 
and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported with the use of atazanavir (see section 4.4).  
Laboratory abnormalities 
The most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in patients receiving regimens containing atazanavir 
and one or more NRTIs was elevated total bilirubin reported predominantly as elevated indirect 
[unconjugated] bilirubin (87% Grade 1, 2, 3, or 4). Grade 3 or 4 elevation of total bilirubin was noted in 37% 
(6% Grade 4). Among experienced patients treated with atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 100 mg ritonavir 
once daily for a median duration of 95 weeks, 53% had Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations. Among naïve 
patients treated with atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 100 mg ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 
96 weeks, 48% had Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations (see section 4.4).  
Other marked clinical laboratory abnormalities (Grade 3 or 4) reported in ≥ 2% of patients receiving 
regimens containing atazanavir and one or more NRTIs included: elevated creatine kinase (7%), elevated 
alanine aminotransferase/serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (ALT/SGPT) (5%), low neutrophils (5%), 
elevated aspartate aminotransferase/serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (AST/SGOT) (3%), and 
elevated lipase (3%).  
Two percent of patients treated with atazanavir experienced concurrent Grade 3-4 ALT/AST and Grade 3-4 
total bilirubin elevations.  
Paediatric population 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In clinical study AI424-020, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 18 years of age who received either the 
oral powder or capsule formulation had a mean duration of treatment with atazanavir of 115 weeks. The 
safety profile in this study was overall comparable to that seen in adults. Both asymptomatic first-degree 
(23%) and second-degree (1%) atrioventricular block were reported in paediatric patients. The most 
frequently reported laboratory abnormality in paediatric patients receiving atazanavir was elevation of total 
bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4) which occurred in 45% of patients.  
In clinical studies AI424-397 and AI424-451, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 11 years of age had a 
mean duration of treatment with atazanavir oral powder of 80 weeks. No deaths were reported. The safety 
profile in these studies was overall comparable to that seen in previous paediatric and adult studies. The most 
frequently reported laboratory abnormalities in paediatric patients receiving atazanavir oral powder was 
elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4; 16%) and increased amylase (Grade 3-4; 33%), 
generally of non-pancreatic origin. Elevation in ALT levels were more frequently reported in paediatric 
patients in these studies than in adults. 
Other special populations 
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus 
Among 1,151 patients receiving atazanavir 400 mg once daily, 177 patients were co-infected with chronic 
hepatitis B or C, and among 655 patients receiving atazanavir 300 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily, 97 patients were co-infected with chronic hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were more likely to 
have baseline hepatic transaminase elevations than those without chronic viral hepatitis. No differences in 
frequency of bilirubin elevations were observed between these patients and those without viral hepatitis. The 
frequency of treatment emergent hepatitis or transaminase elevations in co-infected patients was comparable 
between atazanavir and comparator regimens (see section 4.4).  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Human experience of acute overdose with atazanavir is limited. Single doses up to 1,200 mg have been taken 
by healthy volunteers without symptomatic untoward effects. At high doses that lead to high drug exposures, 
jaundice due to indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia (without associated liver function test changes) 
or PR interval prolongations may be observed (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
Treatment of overdose with atazanavir should consist of general supportive measures, including monitoring 
of vital signs and electrocardiogram (ECG), and observations of the patient’s clinical status. If indicated, 
elimination of unabsorbed atazanavir should be achieved by emesis or gastric lavage. Administration of 
activated charcoal may also be used to aid removal of unabsorbed drug. There is no specific antidote for 
overdose with atazanavir. Since atazanavir is extensively metabolised by the liver and is highly protein 
bound, dialysis is unlikely to be beneficial in significant removal of this medicinal product. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE08  
Mechanism of action 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atazanavir is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI). The compound selectively inhibits the virus-
specific processing of viral Gag-Pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation of mature 
virions and infection of other cells.  
Antiviral activity in vitro: atazanavir exhibits anti-HIV-1 (including all clades tested) and anti-HIV-2 activity 
in cell culture.  
Resistance 
Antiretroviral treatment naïve adult patients 
In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment naïve patients treated with unboosted atazanavir, the I50L 
substitution, sometimes in combination with an A71V change, is the signature resistance substitution for 
atazanavir. Resistance levels to atazanavir ranged from 3.5- to 29-fold without evidence of phenotypic cross 
resistance to other PIs. In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment naïve patients treated with boosted 
atazanavir, the I50L substitution did not emerge in any patient without baseline PI substitutions. The N88S 
substitution has been rarely observed in patients with virologic failure on atazanavir (with or without 
ritonavir). While it may contribute to decreased susceptibility to atazanavir when it occurs with other 
protease substitutions, in clinical studies N88S by itself does not always lead to phenotypic resistance to 
atazanavir or have a consistent impact on clinical efficacy.  
Table 3.:  De novo substitutions in treatment naïve patients failing therapy with atazanavir + 
ritonavir (Study 138, 96 weeks) 
Frequency 
de novo PI substitution (n=26)a 
>20%  
none  
10-20%  
a Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL).  
none  
The M184I/V substitution emerged in 5/26 Atazanavir /ritonavir and 7/26 lopinavir/ritonavir virologic 
failure patients, respectively.  
Antiretroviral treatment experienced adult patients 
In antiretroviral treatment experienced patients from Studies 009, 043, and 045, 100 isolates from patients 
designated as virological failures on therapy that included either atazanavir, atazanavir + ritonavir, or 
atazanavir + saquinavir were determined to have developed resistance to atazanavir. Of the 60 isolates from 
patients treated with either atazanavir or atazanavir + ritonavir, 18 (30%) displayed the I50L phenotype 
previously described in naïve patients.  
Table 4 :  De novo substitutions in treatment experienced patients failing therapy with atazanavir + 
ritonavir (Study 045, 48 weeks) 
Frequency 
de novo PI substitution (n=35)a,b 
>20%  
M36, M46, I54, A71, V82  
L10, I15, K20, V32, E35, S37, F53, I62, G73, I84, L90  
10-20%  
a Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL).  
b Ten patients had baseline phenotypic resistance to atazanavir + ritonavir (fold change [FC]>5.2). FC 
susceptibility in cell culture relative to the wild-type reference was assayed using PhenoSenseTM (Monogram 
Biosciences, South San Francisco, California, USA)  
None of the de novo substitutions (see Table 4) are specific to atazanavir and may reflect re-emergence of 
archived resistance on atazanavir + ritonavir in Study 045 treatment-experienced population.  
The resistance in antiretroviral treatment experienced patients mainly occurs by accumulation of the major 
and minor resistance substitutions described previously to be involved in protease inhibitor resistance.  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical results 
In antiretroviral naïve adult patients 
Study 138 is an international randomised, open-label, multicenter, prospective trial of treatment naïve 
patients comparing atazanavir/ritonavir (300 mg/100 mg once daily) to lopinavir/ritonavir (400 mg/100 mg 
twice daily), each in combination with fixed-dose tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine 
(300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). The atazanavir/ritonavir arm showed similar (non-inferior) antiviral 
efficacy compared to the lopinavir/ritonavir arm, as assessed by the proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 
50 copies/mL at Week 48 (Table 5).  
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment demonstrated durability of antiviral activity (Table 5).  
Table 5:  Efficacy Outcomes in Study 138 a  
Parameter 
HIV RNA <50 copies/mL, % 
All patientsd 
Difference estimate  
[95% CI]d 
Per protocol analysise 
Atazanavir/ritonavirb  
(300 mg/100 mg once daily)  
n=440 
Lopinavir/ritonavirc  
(400 mg/100 mg twice daily)  
n=443 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
78  
74  
76  
68  
Week 48: 1.7% [-3.8%, 7.1%]  
Week 96: 6.1% [0.3%, 12.0%]  
86  
(n=392f)  
91  
(n=352)  
89  
(n=372)  
89  
(n=331)  
Difference estimatee  
[95% CI]  
HIV RNA <50 copies/mL, % by Baseline Characteristicd 
Week 48: -3% [-7.6%, 1.5%]  
Week 96: 2.2% [-2.3%, 6.7%]  
HIV RNA  
<100,000 copies/mL  
82 (n=217)  
75 (n=217)  
81 (n=218)  
70 (n=218)  
≥100,000 copies/mL  
74 (n=223) 
74 (n=223)  
72 (n=225)  
66 (n=225)  
CD4 count  
<50 cells/mm3 
50 to <100 cells/mm3 
100 to <200 cells/mm3 
≥ 200 cells/mm3 
78 (n=58)  
78 (n=58)  
63 (n=48)  
58 (n=48)  
76 (n=45)  
71 (n=45)  
69 (n=29)  
69 (n=29)  
75 (n=106)  
71 (n=106)  
78 (n=134)  
70 (n=134)  
80 (n=222)  
76 (n=222)  
80 (n=228)  
69 (n=228)  
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/mL 
All patients  
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
-3.09 (n=397)  
-3.21 (n=360)  
-3.13 (n=379)  
-3.19 (n=340)  
All patients  
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 by Baseline Characteristic  
203 (n=370)  
268 (n=336)  
219 (n=363)  
290 (n=317)  
HIV RNA  
<100,000 copies/mL  
179 (n=183)  
243 (n=163)  
194 (n=183)  
267 (n=152)  
227 (n=187)  
≥100,000 copies/mL  
310 (n=165)  
a Mean baseline CD4 cell count was 214 cells/mm3 (range 2 to 810 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma 
HIV-1 RNA was 4.94 log10 copies/mL (range 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL)  
b Atazanavir/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once 
daily).  
245 (n=180)  
291 (n=173)  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
c Lopinavir/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once 
daily).  
d Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures.  
e Per protocol analysis: Excluding non-completers and patients with major protocol deviations.  
f Number of patients evaluable.  
Data on withdrawal of ritonavir from atazanavir boosted regimen (see also section 4.4) 
Study 136 (INDUMA) 
In an open-label, randomised, comparative study following a 26- to 30-week induction phase with atazanavir 
300 mg + ritonavir 100 mg once daily and two NRTIs, unboosted atazanavir 400 mg once daily and two 
NRTIs administered during a 48-week maintenance phase (n=87) had similar antiviral efficacy compared 
with atazanavir + ritonavir and two NRTIs (n=85) in HIV-infected subjects with fully suppressed HIV 
replication, as assessed by the proportion of subjects with HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL: 78% of subjects on 
unboosted atazanavir and two NRTIs compared with 75% on atazanavir + ritonavir and two NRTIs. 
Eleven subjects (13%) in the unboosted atazanavir group and 6 (7%) in the atazanavir + ritonavir group, had 
virologic rebound. Four subjects in the unboosted atazanavir group and 2 in the atazanavir + ritonavir group 
had HIV RNA > 500 copies/mL during the maintenance phase. No subject in either group showed 
emergence of protease inhibitor resistance. The M184V substitution in reverse transcriptase, which confers 
resistance to lamivudine and emtricitabine, was detected in 2 subjects in the unboosted atazanavir and 1 
subject in the atazanavir + ritonavir group. 
There were fewer treatment discontinuations in the unboosted atazanavir group (1 vs. 4 subjects in the 
atazanavir + ritonavir group). There was less hyperbilirubinaemia and jaundice in the unboosted atazanavir 
group compared with the atazanavir + ritonavir group (18 and 28 subjects, respectively). 
In antiretroviral experienced adult patients 
Study 045 is a randomised, multicenter trial comparing atazanavir /ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) and 
atazanavir/saquinavir (400/1,200 mg once daily), to lopinavir + ritonavir (400/100 mg fixed-dose 
combination twice daily), each in combination with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (see sections 4.5 and 4.8) 
and one NRTI, in patients with virologic failure on two or more prior regimens containing at least one PI, 
NRTI, and NNRTI. For randomised patients, the mean time of prior antiretroviral exposure was 138 weeks 
for PIs, 281 weeks for NRTIs, and 85 weeks for NNRTIs. At baseline, 34% of patients were receiving a PI 
and 60% were receiving an NNRTI. Fifteen of 120 (13%) patients in the atazanavir + ritonavir treatment arm 
and 17 of 123 (14%) patients in the lopinavir + ritonavir arm had four or more of the PI substitutions L10, 
M46, I54, V82, I84, and L90. Thirty-two percent of patients in the study had a viral strain with fewer than 
two NRTI substitutions.  
The primary endpoint was the time-averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA through 48 
weeks (Table 6).  
Table 6:  Efficacy Outcomes at Week 48a and at Week 96 (Study 045)  
LPV/RTVc (400 mg/ 100 mg 
Parameter  ATV/RTVb (300 mg/ 100 mg 
twice daily)  
n=123 
once daily)  
n=120 
Time-averaged difference 
ATV/RTV-LPV/RTV  
[97.5% CId] 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/mL 
All 
patients  
HIV RNA <50 copies/mL, %f (responder/evaluable) 
-1.93  
(n=90 e)  
-2.29  
(n=64)  
-1.87  
(n=99)  
-2.08  
(n=65)  
0.13  
[-0.12, 0.39]  
0.14  
[-0.13, 0.41]  
All 
patients  
36 (43/120)  
32 (38/120)  
42 (52/123)  
35 (41/118)   NA  
NA  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
HIV RNA <50 copies/mL by select baseline PI substitutions,f, g % (responder/evaluable) 
0-2  
3  
44 (28/63)  
41 (26/63)  
56 (32/57)  
48 (26/54)  
18 (2/11)  
9 (1/11)  
38 (6/16)  
33 (5/15)  
≥ 4  
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
27 (12/45)  
24 (11/45)  
28 (14/50)  
20 (10/49)  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
NA  
121 (n=94)  
122 (n=60)  
110 (n=83)  
154 (n=60)  
All 
patients  
a The mean baseline CD4 cell count was 337 cells/mm3 (range: 14 to 1,543 cells/mm3) and the mean baseline 
plasma HIV-1 RNA level was 4.4 log10 copies/mL (range: 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL).  
b ATV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily).  
c LPV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily).  
d Confidence interval.  
e Number of patients evaluable.  
f Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. Responders on LPV/RTV who 
completed treatment before Week 96 are excluded from Week 96 analysis. The proportion of patients with 
HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL were 53% and 43% for ATV/RTV and 54% and 46% for LPV/RTV at Weeks 48 
and 96 respectively.  
g Select substitutions include any change at positions L10, K20, L24, V32, L33, M36, M46, G48, I50, I54, 
L63, A71, G73, V82, I84, and L90 (0-2, 3, 4 or more) at baseline.  
NA = not applicable.  
Through 48 weeks of treatment, the mean changes from baseline in HIV RNA levels for atazanavir + 
ritonavir and lopinavir + ritonavir were similar (non-inferior). Consistent results were obtained with the last 
observation carried forward method of analysis (time-averaged difference of 0.11, 97.5% confidence interval 
[-0.15, 0.36]). By as-treated analysis, excluding missing values, the proportions of patients with HIV RNA < 
400 copies/mL (< 50 copies/mL) in the atazanavir + ritonavir arm and the lopinavir + ritonavir arm were 
55% (40%) and 56% (46%), respectively.  
Through 96 weeks of treatment, mean HIV RNA changes from baseline for atazanavir + ritonavir and 
lopinavir + ritonavir met criteria for non-inferiority based on observed cases. Consistent results were 
obtained with the last observation carried forward method of analysis. By as-treated analysis, excluding 
missing values, the proportions of patients with HIV RNA <400 copies/mL (<50 copies/mL) for atazanavir + 
ritonavir were 84% (72%) and for lopinavir + ritonavir were 82% (72%). It is important to note that at time 
of the 96-week analysis, 48 % of patients overall remained on study.  
Atazanavir + saquinavir was shown to be inferior to lopinavir + ritonavir.  
Paediatric population 
Assessment of the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and efficacy of atazanavir is based on data from the 
open- label, multicenter clinical trial AI424-020 conducted in patients from 3 months to 21 years of age. 
Overall in this study, 182 paediatric patients (81 antiretroviral-naïve and 101 antiretroviral-experienced) 
received once daily atazanavir (capsule or powder formulation), with or without ritonavir, in combination 
with two NRTIs.  
The clinical data derived from this study are inadequate to support the use of atazanavir (with or without 
ritonavir) in children below 6 years of age.  
Efficacy data observed in the 41 paediatric patients aged 6 years to less than 18 years that received 
Atazanavir capsules with ritonavir are presented in Table 7. For treatment-naïve paediatric patients, the mean 
baseline CD4 cell count was 344 cells/mm3 (range: 2 to 800 cells/ mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV 1 
RNA was 4.67 log10 copies/mL (range: 3.70 to 5.00 log10 copies/mL). For treatment-experienced paediatric 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients, the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 522 cells/mm3 (range: 100 to 1157 cells/mm3) and mean 
baseline plasma HIV 1 RNA was 4.09 log10 copies/mL (range: 3.28 to 5.00 log10 copies/mL).  
Table 7:  Efficacy Outcomes (paediatric patients 6 years to less than 18 years of age) at Week 48 (Study 
AI424-020)  
Parameter 
HIV RNA <50 copies/mL, % a 
All patients  
HIV RNA <400 copies/mL, % a 
Treatment-Naïve 
Atazanavir 
Capsules/ritonavir  
(300 mg/100 mg once 
daily)  
n=16 
Treatment-Experienced 
Atazanavir 
Capsules/ritonavir  
(300 mg/100 mg once 
daily)  
n=25 
81 (13/16)  
24 (6/25)  
All patients  
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
88 (14/16)  
32 (8/25)  
All patients  
HIV RNA <50 copies/mL by select baseline PI substitutions,c % (responder/evaluabled) 
293 (n=14b)  
229 (n=14b)  
0-2  
3  
NA  
NA  
27 (4/15)  
-  
NA  
≥ 4  
a Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures.  
b Number of patients evaluable.  
c PI major L24I, D30N, V32I, L33F, M46IL, I47AV, G48V, I50LV, F53LY, I54ALMSTV, L76V, 
V82AFLST, I84V, N88DS, L90M; PI minor: L10CFIRV, V11I, E35G, K43T, Q58E, A71ILTV, G73ACST, 
T74P, N83D, L89V.  
d Includes patients with baseline resistance data.  
NA = not applicable.  
0 (0/3)  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of atazanavir were evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-infected patients; 
significant differences were observed between the two groups. The pharmacokinetics of atazanavir exhibit a 
non-linear disposition.  
Absorption 
In HIV-infected patients (n=33, combined studies), multiple dosing of atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir, Cmax of 4466 (42%) 
ng/mL, with time to Cmax of approximately 2.5 hours. The geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmin and 
AUC was 654 (76%) ng/mL and 44185 (51%) ng•h/mL, respectively.  
In HIV-infected patients (n=13), multiple dosing of atazanavir 400 mg (without ritonavir) once daily with 
food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmax of 2298 (71) ng/mL, with time to Cmax of 
approximately 2.0 hours. The geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmin and AUC were 120 (109) ng/mL 
and 14874 (91) ng•h/mL, respectively. 
Food effect 
Co-administration of atazanavir and ritonavir with food optimises the bioavailability of atazanavir. Co-
administration of a single 300-mg dose of atazanavir and 100-mg dose of ritonavir with a light meal resulted 
in a 33% increase in the AUC and a 40% increase in both the Cmax and the 24-hour concentration of 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
atazanavir relative to the fasting state. Co-administration with a high-fat meal did not affect the AUC of 
atazanavir relative to fasting conditions and the Cmax was within 11% of fasting values. The 24-hour 
concentration following a high fat meal was increased by approximately 33% due to delayed absorption; the 
median Tmax increased from 2.0 to 5.0 hours. Administration of atazanavir with ritonavir with either a light or 
a high-fat meal decreased the coefficient of variation of AUC and Cmax by approximately 25% compared to 
the fasting state. To enhance bioavailability and minimise variability, atazanavir is to be taken with food.  
Distribution 
Atazanavir was approximately 86% bound to human serum proteins over a concentration range of 100 to 
10,000 ng/mL. Atazanavir binds to both alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) and albumin to a similar extent 
(89% and 86%, respectively, at 1,000 ng/mL). In a multiple-dose study in HIV-infected patients dosed with 
400 mg of atazanavir once daily with a light meal for 12 weeks, atazanavir was detected in the cerebrospinal 
fluid and semen.  
Biotransformation 
Studies in humans and in vitro studies using human liver microsomes have demonstrated that atazanavir is 
principally metabolised by CYP3A4 isozyme to oxygenated metabolites. Metabolites are then excreted in the 
bile as either free or glucuronidated metabolites. Additional minor metabolic pathways consist of 
N-dealkylation and hydrolysis. Two minor metabolites of atazanavir in plasma have been characterised. 
Neither metabolite demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity. 
Elimination 
Following a single 400 mg dose of 14C-atazanavir, 79% and 13% of the total radioactivity was recovered in 
the faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged drug accounted for approximately 20% and 7% of the 
administered dose in the faeces and urine, respectively. Mean urinary excretion of unchanged drug was 7% 
following 2 weeks of dosing at 800 mg once daily. In HIV-infected adult patients (n=33, combined studies) 
the mean half-life within a dosing interval for atazanavir was 12 hours at steady state following a dose of 
300 mg daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with a light meal. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
In healthy subjects, the renal elimination of unchanged atazanavir was approximately 7% of the administered 
dose. There are no pharmacokinetic data available for atazanavir with ritonavir in patients with renal 
insufficiency. Atazanavir (without ritonavir) has been studied in adult patients with severe renal impairment 
(n=20), including those on haemodialysis, at multiple doses of 400 mg once daily. Although this study 
presented some limitations (i.e., unbound drug concentrations not studied), results suggested that the 
atazanavir pharmacokinetic parameters were decreased by 30% to 50% in patients undergoing haemodialysis 
compared to patients with normal renal function. The mechanism of this decrease is unknown. (See sections 
4.2 and 4.4.)  
Hepatic impairment 
Atazanavir is metabolised and eliminated primarily by the liver. Atazanavir (without ritonavir) has been 
studied in adult subjects with moderate-to-severe hepatic impairment (14 Child-Pugh Class B and 2 Child-
Pugh Class C subjects) after a single 400-mg dose. The mean AUC(0-∞) was 42% greater in subjects with 
impaired hepatic function than in healthy subjects. The mean half-life of atazanavir in hepatically impaired 
subjects was 12.1 hours compared to 6.4 hours in healthy subjects. The effects of hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of atazanavir after a 300 mg dose with ritonavir have not been studied. Concentrations of 
atazanavir with or without ritonavir are expected to be increased in patients with moderately or severely 
impaired hepatic function (see sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4).  
Age/gender 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A study of the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir was performed in 59 healthy male and female subjects (29 
young, 30 elderly). There were no clinically important pharmacokinetic differences based on age or gender.  
Race 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of samples from Phase II clinical trials indicated no effect of race on 
the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir.  
Pregnancy 
The pharmacokinetic data from HIV-infected pregnant women receiving atazanavir capsules with ritonavir 
are presented in Table 8.  
Table 8:  Steady-State Pharmacokinetics of Atazanavir with ritonavir in HIV-Infected Pregnant 
Women in the Fed State  
Pharmacokinetic Parameter 
atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg 
2nd Trimester  
(n=9)  
3rd Trimester  
(n=20)  
Cmax ng/mL  
Geometric mean (CV%)  
3729.09  
(39)  
3291.46  
(48)  
postpartuma  
(n=36)  
5649.10  
(31)  
34399.1  
(37)  
34251.5  
(43)  
AUC ng•h/mL  
Geometric mean (CV%)  
Cmin ng/mLb  
Geometric mean (CV%)  
a Atazanavir peak concentrations and AUCs were found to be approximately 26-40% higher during the 
postpartum period (4-12 weeks) than those observed historically in HIV-infected, non-pregnant patients. 
Atazanavir plasma trough concentrations were approximately 2-fold higher during the postpartum period 
when compared to those observed historically in HIV-infected non-pregnant patients.  
b Cmin is concentration 24 hours post-dose.  
1420.64  
(47)  
60532.7  
(33)  
663.78  
(36)  
668.48  
(50)  
Paediatric population  
There is a trend toward a higher clearance in younger children when normalised for body weight. As a result, 
greater peak to trough ratios are observed, however at recommended doses, geometric mean atazanavir 
exposures (Cmin, Cmax, and AUC) in paediatric patients are expected to be similar to those observed in adults. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies, conducted in mice, rats, and dogs, atazanavir-related findings were generally 
confined to the liver and included generally minimal to mild increases in serum bilirubin and liver enzymes, 
hepatocellular vacuolation and hypertrophy, and, in female mice only, hepatic single-cell necrosis. Systemic 
exposures of atazanavir in mice (males), rats, and dogs at doses associated with hepatic changes were at least 
equal to that observed in humans given 400 mg once daily. In female mice, atazanavir exposure at a dose that 
produced single-cell necrosis was 12 times the exposure in humans given 400 mg once daily. Serum 
cholesterol and glucose were minimally to mildly increased in rats but not in mice or dogs.  
During in vitro studies, cloned human cardiac potassium channel (hERG), was inhibited by 15% at a 
concentration (30 μM) of atazanavir corresponding to 30-fold the free drug concentration at Cmax in humans. 
Similar concentrations of atazanavir increased by 13% the action potential duration (APD90) in rabbit 
Purkinje fibres study. Electrocardiographic changes (sinus bradycardia, prolongation of PR interval, 
prolongation of QT interval, and prolongation of QRS complex) were observed only in an initial 2-week oral 
toxicity study performed in dogs. Subsequent 9-month oral toxicity studies in dogs showed no drug-related 
electrocardiographic changes. The clinical relevance of these non-clinical data is unknown. Potential cardiac 
effects of this product in humans cannot be ruled out (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The potential for PR 
prolongation should be considered in cases of overdose (see section 4.9).  
39 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus cycling with no 
effects on mating or fertility. No teratogenic effects were observed in rats or rabbits at maternally toxic 
doses. In pregnant rabbits, gross lesions of the stomach and intestines were observed in dead or moribund 
does at maternal doses 2 and 4 times the highest dose administered in the definitive embryo-development 
study. In the pre- and postnatal development assessment in rats, atazanavir produced a transient reduction in 
body weight in the offspring at a maternally toxic dose. Systemic exposure to atazanavir at doses that 
resulted in maternal toxicity was at least equal to or slightly greater than that observed in humans given 
400 mg once daily.  
Atazanavir was negative in an Ames reverse-mutation assay but did induce chromosomal aberrations in vitro 
in both the absence and presence of metabolic activation. In in vivo studies in rats, atazanavir did not induce 
micronuclei in bone marrow, DNA damage in duodenum (comet assay), or unscheduled DNA repair in liver 
at plasma and tissue concentrations exceeding those that were clastogenic in vitro.  
In long-term carcinogenicity studies of atazanavir in mice and rats, an increased incidence of benign hepatic 
adenomas was seen in female mice only. The increased incidence of benign hepatic adenomas in female 
mice was likely secondary to cytotoxic liver changes manifested by single-cell necrosis and is considered to 
have no relevance for humans at intended therapeutic exposures. There were no tumorigenic findings in male 
mice or in rats.  
Atazanavir increased opacity of bovine corneas in an in vitro ocular irritation study, indicating it may be an 
ocular irritant upon direct contact with the eye.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Lactose monohydrate  
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate  
Capsule shell cap 150 mg 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Patent blue V (E131) 
Gelatin 
Capsule shell body 150 mg 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Patent blue V (E131) 
Gelatin 
Capsule shell cap 200 mg 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Indigo Carmine (E132) 
Gelatin 
Capsule shell body 200 mg 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Patent blue V (E131) 
Gelatin 
Capsule shell cap 300 mg 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Gelatin 
Capsule shell body 300 mg 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Patent blue V (E131) 
Gelatin 
Printing ink 
Shellac 
Propylene glycol 
Ammonia solution, concentrated 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Potassium hydroxide 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
For bottles: Use within 90 days of first opening 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 25°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
150 mg 
OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium blisters containing 60, 60 x 1 (unit dose) capsules. 
PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters containing 60, 60 x 1 (unit dose) capsules. 
HDPE bottle with polypropylene screw cap containing 60 capsules. 
200 mg 
OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium blisters containing 60, 60 x 1 (unit dose) capsules. 
PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters containing 30, 60, 60 x 1 (unit dose) capsules. 
HDPE bottle with polypropylene screw cap containing 60 capsules. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
300 mg 
OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium blisters containing 30, 30 x 1 (unit dose) capsules. 
PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters containing 30, 30 x 1 (unit dose) capsules. 
HDPE bottle with polypropylene screw cap containing 30, 90 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/001 
EU/1/16/1091/002 
EU/1/16/1091/003 
EU/1/16/1091/004 
EU/1/16/1091/005 
EU/1/16/1091/006 
EU/1/16/1091/007 
EU/1/16/1091/008 
EU/1/16/1091/009 
EU/1/16/1091/010 
EU/1/16/1091/011 
EU/1/16/1091/012 
EU/1/16/1091/013 
EU/1/16/1091/014 
EU/1/16/1091/015 
EU/1/16/1091/016 
EU/1/16/1091/017 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  22 August 2016 
Date of latest renewal: 26 April 2021 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
43 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1 
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories 
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13 
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1 
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352,  
Germany  
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent 
updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any 
agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER CARTON FOR 150 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules  
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
60 hard capsules. 
60 x 1 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/001 
EU/1/16/1091/002 
EU/1/16/1091/011 
EU/1/16/1091/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR 150 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON FOR 150 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
60 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened: Use within 90 days 
Date opened: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL FOR 150 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
60 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. Read the package leaflet before use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
6. 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened: Use within 90 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER CARTON FOR 200 MG HARD CAPSULES  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules  
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate)  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
60 hard capsules. 
60 x 1 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/004 
EU/1/16/1091/005 
EU/1/16/1091/013 
EU/1/16/1091/014 
EU/1/16/1091/015 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR 200 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules  
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
 Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON FOR 200 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
60 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened: Use within 90 days 
Date opened: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGE 
BOTTLE LABEL FOR 200 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
60 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. Read the package leaflet before use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
6. 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened: Use within 90 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER CARTON FOR 300 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules.  
30 x 1 hard capsules.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
N/A 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the originalpackage in order to protect from moisture. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/007 
EU/1/16/1091/008 
EU/1/16/1091/016 
EU/1/16/1091/017 
13.  BATCH NUMBER<, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES> 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR 300 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
.Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON FOR 300 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules  
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules. 
90 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened: Use within 90 days 
Date opened: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/009 
EU/1/16/1091/010 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL FOR 300 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules  
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules. 
90 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. Read the package leaflet before use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
6. 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened: Use within 90 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1091/009 
EU/1/16/1091/010 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Atazanavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Atazanavir Mylan  
3.  How to take Atazanavir Mylan  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Atazanavir Mylan 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Atazanavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
Atazanavir Mylan is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a protein 
that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your body and this in 
turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way Atazanavir Mylan reduces the risk of developing illnesses 
linked to HIV infection. 
Atazanavir Mylan capsules may be used by adults and children 6 years of age and older. Your doctor has 
prescribed Atazanavir Mylan for you because you are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is normally used in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with Atazanavir Mylan is best for 
you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Atazanavir Mylan  
Do not take Atazanavir Mylan 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe your liver 
disease is before deciding whether you can take Atazanavir Mylan 
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and Atazanavir Mylan 
- 
- 
rifampicin, an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis 
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines may be 
available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes called heartburn); 
pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to correct heart rhythm); 
ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine (used to treat headaches); and 
alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland). 
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder). 
- 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia). 
- 
-  medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation). 
- 
- 
- 
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve anxiety). 
lomitapide, simvastatin and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol). 
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose combination, and 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C infection). 
apalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer). 
- 
Do not take sildenafil with Atazanavir Mylan when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor if you are 
using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Atazanavir Mylan is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other 
illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
Some people will need special care before or while taking Atazanavir Mylan. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Atazanavir Mylan and make sure your doctor knows: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have hepatitis B or C 
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach) 
if you have type A or B haemophilia 
if you require haemodialysis 
Atazanavir may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking atazanavir. If you develop signs or symptoms of kidney 
stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your doctor 
immediately. 
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs and 
symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is 
believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body 
to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you notice any symptoms of 
infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune 
disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after 
you start taking medicines for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many 
months after the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, 
palpitations, tremor, or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment. 
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis 
(death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index, 
among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are 
joint stiffness, aches, and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you 
notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients 
receiving atazanavir. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of these 
symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking atazanavir. If 
you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor. 
Children receiving Atazanavir Mylan may require their heart to be monitored. Your child’s doctor will 
decide this. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The use 
of atazanavir in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been studied due to 
the risk of serious complications. 
Other medicines and Atazanavir Mylan 
You must not take Atazanavir Mylan with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take 
Atazanavir Mylan, at the start of Section 2.  
There are other medicines that may not mix with Atazanavir Mylan. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are 
taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g. indinavir, nevirapine and efavirenz) 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction)) 
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with Atazanavir Mylan to prevent pregnancy, be 
sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses. 
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g. antacids to be taken 1 hour 
before taking Atazanavir Mylan or 2 hours after taking Atazanavir Mylan, H2-blockers like famotidine 
and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) 
medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil) 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
salmeterol (used to treat asthma) 
ciclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body’s immune system) 
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin) 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals) 
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor (used to 
reduce blood clots) 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and lamotrigine (antiepileptics) 
encorafenib, ivosidenib, and irinotecan (used to treat cancer) 
elagolix (gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists, used to treat severe pain from 
endometriosis) 
fostamatinib (used to treat chronic immune thrombocytopenia) 
sedative agents (e.g. midazolam administered by injection) 
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain) 
corticosteroids (all routes of administration; including dexamethasone). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with Atazanavir Mylan. It is important 
to tell your doctor if you are taking an inhaled or nasal (given in the nose) corticosteroid, including 
fluticasone or budesonide (given to treat allergic symptoms or asthma). 
Atazanavir Mylan with food and drink 
It is important that you take Atazanavir Mylan with food (a meal or a substantial snack) as this helps the 
body absorb the medicine. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. Atazanavir, the active substance of 
Atazanavir Mylan, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not breast-feed while taking Atazanavir Mylan.  
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed on to 
the baby in breast milk. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as  
soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines and contact your doctor immediately. 
Atazanavir Mylan contains lactose  
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars (e.g., lactose), contact your 
doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
3. 
How to take Atazanavir Mylan 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment.   
The recommended dose of Atazanavir Mylan capsules for adults is 300 mg once daily with 100 mg 
ritonavir once daily, taken with food, in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor may 
adjust the dose of Atazanavir Mylan according to your anti-HIV therapy. 
For children (6 to less than 18 years of age), your child’s doctor will decide the right dose based on 
your child’s weight. The dose of Atazanavir Mylan capsules for children is calculated by body weight and is 
taken once daily with food and 100 mg ritonavir as shown below: 
Body Weight (kg) 
15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
Atazanavir Mylan dose once 
daily (mg) 
200 
300 
Ritonavir Dose* once daily 
 (mg) 
100 
100 
* Ritonavir capsules, tablets, or oral solution may be used. 
Other forms of this medicine may be available for use in children at least 3 months old and weighing at least 
5 kg. Switching to capsules from other formulations is encouraged as soon as patients are able to consistently 
swallow capsules. 
A change in dose may occur when switching between other formulations and capsules. Your doctor will 
decide the right dose based on your child’s weight. 
There are no dosing recommendations for Atazanavir Mylan in paediatric patients less than 3 months of age. 
Take Atazanavir Mylan capsules with food (a meal or a substantial snack). Swallow the capsules whole. 
Do not open the capsules. 
If you take more Atazanavir Mylan than you should 
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if you or your 
child take too much Atazanavir Mylan. 
If you accidentally take more Atazanavir Mylan capsules than your doctor recommended, contact your HIV 
doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice. 
If you forget to take Atazanavir Mylan 
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as possible with food and then take your next scheduled dose 
at its regular time. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the missed dose. Wait and take the next 
dose at its regular time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Atazanavir Mylan 
Do not stop taking Atazanavir Mylan before talking to your doctor.  
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When treating 
HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by atazanavir, by the other 
medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you notice anything unusual 
about your health. 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This is 
partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV medicines 
themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually disappears 
within 2 weeks without any change to your treatment. Severe rash may be developed in association 
with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking Atazanavir Mylan and talk to your doctor 
immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash with flu-like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, 
mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in the face, inflammation of the eye which causes redness 
(conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red lumps (nodules).  
Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in your blood 
has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults and infants older than 
3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If your skin or the white part of your 
eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately. 
Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to your 
doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be symptoms of 
a serious heart problem.  
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you starting to take 
this medicine and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C infection, 
you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor immediately if you get 
dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes, pain around the 
stomach, pale-colored stools, or nausea. 
Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking atazanavir. Symptoms of gallbladder 
problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea, vomiting, fever, or 
yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes. 
Atazanavir may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking atazanavir. Talk to your doctor immediately if 
you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back or low stomach-area, 
blood in your urine, or pain when you urinate. 
Other side effects reported for patients treated with atazanavir are the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia (indigestion) 
fatigue (extreme tiredness) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs) 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) 
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness) 
weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased 
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream 
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure) 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath) 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis aphthous 
(mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), flatulence (wind), dry 
mouth, abdominal distension 
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes) 
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching) 
muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles) 
interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria (excess protein 
in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination) 
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men) 
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking) 
oedema (swelling) 
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) 
myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise) 
kidney pain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Atazanavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label, carton or blister. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25ºC. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
For bottles: Once opened, use within 90 days. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Atazanavir Mylan contains  
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 150 mg or atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate (see section 2, ‘Atazanavir Mylan contains lactose’), 
crospovidone, magnesium stearate. The capsule shell and printing ink contain iron oxide red (E172), 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
titanium dioxide (E171), patent blue V (E131), gelatin, shellac, propylene glycol, concentrated 
ammonia solution, iron oxide black (E172), potassium hydroxide. 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 200 mg or atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate (see section 2, ‘Atazanavir Mylan contains lactose’), 
crospovidone, magnesium stearate. The capsule shell and printing ink contain titanium dioxide (E171), 
indigo carmine (E132), iron oxide yellow (E172), patent blue V (E131), gelatin, shellac, propylene 
glycol, concentrated ammonia solution, iron oxide black (E172), potassium hydroxide. 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 300 mg or atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, crospovidone, magnesium stearate. The capsule shell 
and printing ink contain iron oxide yellow (E172), iron oxide red (E172), titanium dioxide (E171),  
patent blue V (E131), gelatin, shellac, propylene glycol, concentrated ammonia solution, iron oxide 
black (E172), potassium hydroxide. 
What Atazanavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules are greenish-blue and blue opaque capsules with ‘MYLAN’ over 
‘AR150’ printed in black ink on cap and body.   
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules are blue and greenish-blue opaque capsules with ‘MYLAN’ over 
‘AR200’ printed in black ink on cap and body. 
Atazanavir Mylan 300 mg hard capsules are red and greenish-blue opaque capsules with ‘MYLAN’ over 
‘AR300’ printed in black ink on cap and body. 
Atazanavir Mylan 150 mg hard capsules 
This medicine comes in blister packs containing 60 or 60 x 1 (unit dose) capsules or in  bottles containing 60 
hard capsules. 
Atazanavir Mylan 200 mg hard capsules 
This medicine comes in blister packs containing 30, 60 or 60 x 1 (unit dose) capsules or in  bottles containing 
60 hard capsules. 
Atazanavir 300 mg hard capsules 
This medicine comes in blister packs containing 30 or 30 x 1 (unit dose) capsules or in bottles containing 30 
or 90 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited, Damastown Industrial Park, Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, DUBLIN, Ireland 
Manufacturer 
McDermott Laboratories trading as Gerard Laboratories, 35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, 
Dublin 13, Ireland 
Mylan Hungary Kft, Mylan utca 1, Komárom, H-2900 Hungary 
Mylan Germany GmbH, Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1 
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Hessen, 61352, Germany  
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Viatris 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: + 45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH  
Tel: + 49 800 0700 800 
Eesti 
Viatris OÜ  
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Ελλάδα  
Viatris Hellas Ltd  
Τηλ: +30 2100 100 002 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Lietuva 
Viatris UAB  
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Viatris 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Viatris Healthcare Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd 
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0)20 426 3300 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 22 564 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL 
Tel: + 40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 236 31 80 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o.  
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Italia 
Viatris Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 222 077 00 
Latvija 
Viatris SIA 
Tel: + 371 676 055 80 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB  
Tel: + 46 (0) 8 630 19 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited 
 Tel: + 353 18711600 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
