EMA/107659/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004859 
Atazanavir Krka (atazanavir) 
An overview of Atazanavir Krka and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Atazanavir Krka and what is it used for? 
Atazanavir Krka is an HIV medicine used to treat patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus 
type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). It is used together 
with low-dose ritonavir and other antiviral medicines to treat patients aged 6 years and over. 
Doctors should prescribe Atazanavir Krka only after they have looked at which medicines the patient 
has taken and carried out tests to establish that the virus is likely to respond to Atazanavir Krka. The 
medicine is not expected to work in patients in whom many medicines in the same class as Atazanavir 
Krka (protease inhibitors) do not work. 
Atazanavir Krka contains the active substance atazanavir and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Atazanavir Krka contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Reyataz. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Atazanavir Krka used? 
Atazanavir Krka is available as capsules (150 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg). It can only be obtained with a 
prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of HIV 
infection. 
For adults, the recommended dose is 300 mg once a day. In younger patients, the dose of Atazanavir 
Krka depends on body weight. Each dose must be taken with food.  
Atazanavir Krka is normally given with ritonavir to boost its action but doctors can consider stopping 
ritonavir in adults in some specific situations. 
For more information about using Atazanavir Krka, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Atazanavir Krka work? 
The active substance in Atazanavir Krka, atazanavir, is a protease inhibitor. It blocks an enzyme called 
protease, which is needed for the HIV virus to multiply. Blocking the enzyme prevents the virus from 
multiplying, slowing down the spread of infection. A small dose of another medicine, ritonavir, is 
normally given at the same time as a ‘booster’. Ritonavir slows down the break-down of atazanavir, 
increasing the levels of atazanavir in the blood. This allows a lower dose of atazanavir to be used for 
the same antiviral effect. Atazanavir Krka, taken in combination with other antiviral medicines, reduces 
the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Atazanavir Krka does not cure HIV infection 
or AIDS but, when used in combination with other antivirals, it holds off the damage to the immune 
system and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Atazanavir Krka been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Reyataz, and do not need to be repeated for Atazanavir Krka. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Atazanavir Krka. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Atazanavir Krka? 
Because Atazanavir Krka is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Atazanavir Krka authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Atazanavir Krka 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Reyataz. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Reyataz, the benefit of Atazanavir Krka outweighs the identified risk and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Atazanavir Krka? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Atazanavir Krka have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Atazanavir Krka are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Atazanavir Krka are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Atazanavir Krka 
Atazanavir Krka received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 March 2019. 
Further information on Atazanavir Krka can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/atazanavir-krka. Information on the reference 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 03-2019. 
Atazanavir Krka (atazanavir) 
EMA/107659/2019  
Page 2/2 
