Summary of risk management plan for Atazanavir Krka 
(atazanavir) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Atazanavir  Krka.  The  RMP  details 
important  risks  of  Atazanavir  Krka  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Atazanavir 
Krka's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Atazanavir Krka's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Atazanavir Krka should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Atazanavir Krka should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns  or changes to  the  current  ones  will be included in updates of Atazanavir 
Krka's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Atazanavir Krka capsules,  co-administered with low dose ritonavir, are indicated for the treatment 
of HIV-1 infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products.  It  contains  atazanavir  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given 
orally. 
Further information about  the evaluation of  Atazanavir Krka’s  benefits can be found in Atazanavir 
Krka’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/atazanavir-krka. 
II. Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Atazanavir  Krka  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Atazanavir Krka's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 


Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
 
The medicine’s legal status  — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Atazanavir Krka are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Atazanavir Krka Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the 
safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the 
long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
PR interval prolongation (both paediatric and adult populations) 
Neprolithiasis with or without alteration of the renal function 
Hyperbilirubinemia 
Severe skin reactions 
Cholelithiasis 
Angioedema 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) 
Chronic kidney disease 
Important potential risks 
QT prolongation 
Kernicterus 
Acute renal failure (adults) 
Interstitial nephritis 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Lack of efficacy due to unboosted ATV “off-label use” 
Missing information 
Hepatic impairment 
Pregnancy 
Paediatric patients < 3 months of age 
Geriatric patients 
Woman who are breastfeeding 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Atazanavir Krka. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Atazanavir Krka. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
