ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
Excipient with known effect
Each hard capsule contains 79.43 mg lactose monohydrate.
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
Excipient with known effect
Each hard capsule contains 105.91 mg lactose monohydrate.
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
Excipient with known effect
Each hard capsule contains 158.86 mg lactose monohydrate.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Hard capsule (capsule)
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Hard gelatine capsule, size no. 1. The body of the capsule is white or almost white colour, the cap of 
the capsule is brownish-orange colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with black mark A150. The 
content of the capsule is yellowish-white to yellow-white powder.
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Hard gelatine capsule, size no. 0. The body and the cap of the capsule are brownish-orange colour. 
The capsule cap is imprinted with black mark A200. The content of the capsule is yellowish-white to 
yellow-white powder.
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
Hard gelatine capsule, size no. 00. The body of the capsule is white or almost white colour, the cap of 
the capsule is dark brown colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with white mark A300. The content of 
the capsule is yellowish-white to yellow-white powder.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Atazanavir Krka capsules, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, are indicated for the treatment of
HIV-1 infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 4.2).
2
Based on available virological and clinical data from adult patients, no benefit is expected in patients 
with strains resistant to multiple protease inhibitors (≥ 4 PI mutations).
The choice of Atazanavir Krka in treatment experienced adult and paediatric patients should be based
on individual viral resistance testing and the patient’s treatment history (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection.
Posology
Adults
The recommended dose of Atazanavir Krka capsules is 300 mg once daily taken with ritonavir 100
mg once daily and with food. Ritonavir is used as a booster of atazanavir pharmacokinetics (see
sections 4.5 and 5.1). (See also section 4.4 Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions).
Paediatric patients (6 years to less than 18 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
The dose of atazanavir capsules for paediatric patients is based on body weight as shown in Table 1 
and should not exceed the recommended adult dose. Atazanavir Krka capsules must be taken with
ritonavir and have to be taken with food.
Table 1:
Dose for paediatric patients (6 years to less than 18 years of age and weighing
at least 15 kg) for Atazanavir Krka capsules with ritonavir
Body Weight (kg)
15 to less than 35
at least 35
Ritonavir capsules, tablets or oral solution.
Atazanavir Krka once daily dose
200 mg
300 mg
a 
ritonavir once daily dosea
100 mg
100 mg
Paediatric patients (at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg):
Other formulations of this medicine may be available for paediatric patients at least 3 months of age 
and weighing at least 5 kg (see relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for alternative forms).  
Switching to capsules from other formulations is encouraged as soon as patients are able to 
consistently swallow capsules.
When transitioning between formulations, a change in dose may be needed. Consult the dosing table 
for the specific formulation (see Summary of Product Characteristics for other formulations).
Special populations
Renal impairment
No dosage adjustment is needed. Atazanavir Krka with ritonavir is not recommended in
patients undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Atazanavir with ritonavir has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Atazanavir Krka
with ritonavir should be used with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment. Atazanavir Krka
with ritonavir must not be used in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see sections
4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).
In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the initial recommended ritonavir boosted regimen (see section
4.4), unboosted Atazanavir Krka could be maintained in patients with mild hepatic impairment at a
dose of 400 mg, and in patients with moderate hepatic impairment with a reduced dose of 300 mg once
daily with food (see section 5.2). Unboosted Atazanavir Krka must not be used in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment.
Pregnancy and Postpartum
During the second and third trimesters of pregnancy:
3
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg may not provide sufficient exposure to atazanavir, 
especially when the activity of atazanavir or the whole regimen may be compromised due to drug 
resistance. Since there are limited data available and due to inter-patient variability during pregnancy, 
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM) may be considered to ensure adequate exposure.
The risk of a further decrease in atazanavir exposure is expected when atazanavir is given with 
medicinal products known to reduce its exposure (e.g., tenofovir disoproxil or H2-receptor 
antagonists).
-
If tenofovir disoproxil or an H2-receptor antagonist is needed, a dose increase to Atazanavir Krka
400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg with TDM may be considered (see sections 4.6 and 5.2).
It is not recommended to use Atazanavir Krka with ritonavir for pregnant patients who are
receiving both tenofovir disoproxil and an H2-receptor antagonist.
-
(See section 4.4 Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions).
During postpartum:
Following a possible decrease in atazanavir exposure during the second and third trimester, atazanavir
exposures might increase during the first two months after delivery (see section 5.2). Therefore, 
postpartum patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions.
-
During this time, postpartum patients should follow the same dose recommendation as for
non- pregnant patients, including those for co-administration of medicinal products known to
affect atazanavir exposure (see section 4.5).
Paediatric patients (less than 3 months of age)
Atazanavir Krka should not be used in children less than 3 months because of safety concerns
especially taking into account the potential risk of kernicterus.
Method of administration
For oral use. The capsules should be swallowed whole.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Atazanavir Krka is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency (see
sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). Atazanavir Krka with ritonavir is contraindicated in patients
with moderate hepatic insufficiency (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2).
Co-administration with simvastatin or lovastatin (see section 4.5). 
Combination of rifampicin (see section 4.5).
Combination of the PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) only (see section 4.5). For co-administration of sildenafil for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction see sections 4.4 and 4.5.
Co-administration with medicinal products that are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome 
P450 and have narrow therapeutic windows (e.g., quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole,
terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil, triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for
caution on parenterally administered midazolam, see section 4.5), lomitapide, and ergot alkaloids,
particularly, ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine) (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed dose 
combination (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed dose combination (see section 4.5)
4
Co-administration with products containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see section 4.5).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Co-administration of atazanavir with ritonavir at doses greater than 100 mg once daily has not been 
clinically evaluated. The use of higher ritonavir doses may alter the safety profile of atazanavir
(cardiac effects, hyperbilirubinaemia) and therefore is not recommended. Only when atazanavir with 
ritonavir is co-administered with efavirenz, a dose increase of ritonavir to 200 mg once daily could be 
considered. In this instance, close clinical monitoring is warranted (see Interaction with other 
Medicinal Products below).
Patients with coexisting conditions
Hepatic impairment: Atazanavir is primarily hepatically metabolised and increased plasma 
concentrations were observed in patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). The 
safety and efficacy of atazanavir has not been established in patients with significant underlying
liver disorders. Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C and treated with combination antiretroviral
therapy are at an increased risk for severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case
of concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer also to the relevant Summary
of Product Characteristics for these medicinal products (see section 4.8).
Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis, have an increased 
frequency of liver function abnormalities during combination antiretroviral therapy and should be 
monitored according to standard practice. If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such 
patients, interruption or discontinuation of treatment must be considered.
Renal impairment: No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with renal impairment. However, 
Atazanavir Krka is not recommended in patients undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.2 and
5.2).
QT prolongation: Dose related asymptomatic prolongations in PR interval with atazanavir have been 
observed in clinical studies. Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR 
prolongations. In patients with pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher 
atrioventricular or complex bundle-branch block), Atazanavir Krka should be used with caution and
only if the benefits exceed the risk (see section 5.1). Particular caution should be used when
prescribing Atazanavir Krka in association with medicinal products which have the potential to
increase the QT interval and/or in patients with pre-existing risk factors (bradycardia, long congenital
QT, electrolyte imbalances (see sections 4.8 and 5.3).
Haemophiliac patients: There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin 
haematomas and haemarthroses, in type A and B haemophiliac patients treated with protease 
inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, 
treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued.
A causal relationship has been suggested, although the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. 
Haemophiliac patients should therefore be made aware of the possibility of increased bleeding.
Weight and metabolic parameters
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to the disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate.
In clinical studies, atazanavir (with or without ritonavir) has been shown to induce dyslipidaemia to a 
lesser extent than comparators.
Hyperbilirubinaemia
5
Reversible elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl 
transferase (UGT) have occurred in patients receiving atazanavir (see section 4.8). Hepatic 
transaminase elevations that occur with elevated bilirubin in patients receiving atazanavir should be 
evaluated for alternative aetiologies. Alternative antiretroviral therapy to Atazanavir Krka may be
considered if jaundice or scleral icterus is unacceptable to a patient. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not 
recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.
Indinavir is also associated with indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia due to inhibition of UGT.
Combinations of atazanavir and indinavir have not been studied and co-administration of these 
medicinal products is not recommended (see section 4.5).
Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions
The recommended standard treatment is Atazanavir Krka boosted with ritonavir, ensuring
optimal pharmacokinetic parameters and level of virologic suppression.
The withdrawal of ritonavir from the boosted regimen of Atazanavir Krka is not recommended, but
may be considered in adults patients at the dose of 400 mg once daily with food only under the
following combined restrictive conditions:
-
-
-
absence of prior virologic failure
undetectable viral load during the last 6 months under current regimen
viral strains not harbouring HIV resistance associated mutations (RAMs) to current regimen.
Atazanavir Krka given without ritonavir should not be considered in patients treated with a backbone 
regimen containing tenofovir disoproxil and with other concomitant medications that reduce 
atazanavir bioavailability (see section 4.5 In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the recommended 
atazanavir boosted regimen) or in case of perceived challenging compliance.
Atazanavir Krka given without ritonavir should not be used in pregnant patients given that it could
result of suboptimal exposure of particular concern for the mother infection and vertical transmission.
Cholelithiasis
Cholelithiasis has been reported in patients receiving atazanavir (see section 4.8). Some patients 
required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. If signs or symptoms 
of cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered.
Chronic kidney disease 
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has 
been reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown 
an association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the 
renal function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.8).
Nephrolithiasis
Nephrolithiasis has been reported in patients receiving atazanavir (see section 4.8). Some patients 
required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. In some cases, 
nephrolithiasis has been associated with acute renal failure or renal insufficiency. If signs or symptoms 
of nephrolithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered.
Immune reactivation syndrome
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically,
such reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART.
Relevant examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections,
and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Any inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and
treatment instituted when necessary. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease and autoimmune 
hepatitis) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the
6
reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occurs many months after initiation of
treatment.
Osteonecrosis
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV-disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement.
Rash and associated syndromes
Rashes are usually mild -to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks 
of starting therapy with atazanavir.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions and drug rash with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported in patients receiving 
atazanavir. Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin 
reactions. Atazanavir Krka should be discontinued if severe rash develops.
The best results in managing these events come from early diagnosis and immediate interruption of 
any suspect medicines. If the patient has developed SJS or DRESS associated with the use of 
Atazanavir Krka, Atazanavir Krka may not be restarted.
Interactions with other medicinal products
The combination of Atazanavir Krka with atorvastatin is not recommended (see section 4.5).
Co-administration of Atazanavir Krka with nevirapine or efavirenz is not recommended (see section
4.5). If the co-administration of Atazanavir Krka with an NNRTI is required, an increase in the dose
of both Atazanavir Krka and ritonavir to 400 mg and 200 mg, respectively, in combination with
efavirenz could be considered with close clinical monitoring.
Atazanavir is metabolised principally by CYP3A4. Co-administration of Atazanavir Krka and
medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 is not recommended (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
PDE5 inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction: particular caution should be used when 
prescribing PDE5-inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil) for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction in patients receiving Atazanavir Krka. Co-administration of Atazanavir Krka with these
medicinal products is expected to substantially increase their concentrations and may result in PDE5-
associated adverse reactions such as hypotension, visual changes and priapism (see section 4.5).
Co-administration of voriconazole and Atazanavir Krka with ritonavir is not recommended,
unless an assessment of the benefit/risk justifies the use of voriconazole.
In the majority of patients, a reduction in both voriconazole and atazanavir exposures are expected. In 
a small number of patients without a functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly increased voriconazole 
exposures are expected (see section 4.5).
Concomitant use of Atazanavir Krka /ritonavir and fluticasone or other glucocorticoids that are
metabolised by CYP3A4 is not recommended unless the potential benefit of treatment outweighs the
risk of systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression (see
section 4.5).
Concomitant use of salmeterol and Atazanavir Krka may result in increased cardiovascular adverse
events associated with salmeterol. Co-administration of salmeterol and Atazanavir Krka is not
recommended (see section 4.5).
The absorption of atazanavir may be reduced in situations where gastric pH is increased irrespective of 
7
cause.
Co-administration of Atazanavir Krka with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended (see
section 4.5). If the combination of Atazanavir Krka with a proton pump inhibitor is judged
unavoidable, close clinical monitoring is recommended in combination with an increase in the
dose of Atazanavir Krka to 400 mg with 100 mg of ritonavir; doses of proton pump inhibitors
comparable to omeprazole 20 mg should not be exceeded.
Co-administration of Atazanavir Krka with other hormonal contraceptives or oral
contraceptives containing progestogens other than norgestimate or norethindrone has not been
studied, and therefore should be avoided (see section 4.5).
Paediatric population
Safety
Asymptomatic PR interval prolongation was more frequent in paediatric patients than adults. 
Asymptomatic first- and second-degree AV block was reported in paediatric patients (see
section 4.8).
Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR prolongations. In paediatric 
patients with pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher atrioventricular or complex 
bundle-branch block), Atazanavir Krka should be used with caution and only if the benefits exceed the
risk. Cardiac monitoring is recommended based on the presence of clinical findings (e.g., bradycardia).
Efficacy
Atazanavir/ritonavir is not effective in viral strains harbouring multiple mutations of resistance.
Excipients
Lactose
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
When Atazanavir Krka and ritonavir are co-administered, the metabolic drug interaction profile for 
ritonavir may predominate because ritonavir is a more potent CYP3A4 inhibitor than atazanavir. The 
Summary of Product Characteristics for ritonavir must be consulted before initiation of therapy with 
Atazanavir Krka and ritonavir.
Atazanavir is metabolised in the liver through CYP3A4. It inhibits CYP3A4. Therefore, Atazanavir Krka
is contraindicated with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic 
index: quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil,
triazolam, orally administered midazolam, lomitapide, and ergot alkaloids, particularly ergotamine and
dihydroergotamine (see section 4.3).
Co-administration  of  atazanavir  with  grazoprevir-containing  products,  including  elbasvir/grazoprevir 
fixed dose combination is contraindicated because of the increase in grazoprevir and elbasvir plasma 
concentrations  and  potential  for  the  increase  in  risk  of  ALT  elevations  associated  with  increased 
atazanavir with 
grazoprevir 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed dose combination is contraindicated because of the potential increase in 
the  risk  of  ALT  elevations  due  to  a  significant  increase  in  glecaprevir  and  pibrentasvir  plasma 
concentrations (see section 4.3).
4.3). Co-administration 
concentrations 
section 
(see 
of 
Other interactions
Interactions between atazanavir and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (increase is 
indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”). If available, 90% confidence intervals (CI) are 
shown in parentheses. The studies presented in Table 2 were conducted in healthy subjects unless 
otherwise noted. Of importance, many studies were conducted with unboosted atazanavir, which is not 
the recommended regimen of atazanavir (see section 4.4).
8
If withdrawal of ritonavir is medically warranted under restrictive conditions (see section 4.4), special 
attention should be given to atazanavir interactions that may differ in the absence of ritonavir (see
information below Table 2).
Table 2: Interactions between atazanavir and other medicinal products
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area
ANTI-HCV AGENTS
Grazoprevir 200 mg 
once daily
(atazanavir 300 mg/ 
ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Elbasvir 50 mg once 
daily
(atazanavir 300 mg/ 
ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Sofosbuvir 400 mg / 
velpatasvir 100 mg 
/voxilaprevir 100 mg 
single dose*
(atazanavir 300 mg / 
ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Recommendations
concerning co-
administration
Co-administration of 
atazanavir and 
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated because of a 
significant increase in 
grazoprevir plasma 
concentrations and an 
associated potential increase 
in the risk of ALT elevations 
(see section 4.3).
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with voxilaprevir-
containing products is 
expected to increase the 
concentration of voxilaprevir. 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with voxilaprevir-
containing regimens is not 
recommended.
Interaction
Atazanavir AUC ↑43% (↑30% 
↑57%)
Atazanavir cmax ↑12% (↑1% 
↑24%)
Atazanavir cmin ↑23% (↑13% 
↑134%)
Grazoprevir AUC: ↑958% (↑678% 
↑1339%)
Grazoprevir cmax: ↑524% (↑342% 
↑781%)
Grazoprevir cmin: ↑1064% (↑696% 
↑1602%)
Grazoprevir concentrations were 
greatly increased when co-
administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir.
Atazanavir AUC ↑7% (↓2% 
↑17%)
Atazanavir cmax ↑2% (↓4% ↑8%)
Atazanavir cmin ↑15% (↑2% ↑29%)
Elbasvir AUC: ↑376% (↑307% 
↑456%)
Elbasvir cmax: ↑315% (↑246% 
↑397%)
Elbasvir cmin: ↑545% (↑451%
↑654%)
Elbasvir concentrations were 
increased when co-administered 
with atazanavir/ritonavir.
Sofosbuvir AUC : ↑40% (↑25% 
↑57%)
Sofosbuvir cmax :↑29% (↑9% 
↑52%)
Velpatasvir AUC: ↑93% (↑58% 
↑136%)
Velpatasvir cmax : ↑29% (↑7% 
↑56%)
Voxilaprevir AUC : ↑331% 
(↑276% ↑393%)
Voxilaprevir cmax : ↑342% (↑265% 
↑435%)
*Lack of pharmacokinetics 
interaction bounds 70-143%
Effect on atazanavir and ritonavir 
exposure has not been studied.
Expected:
↔ Atazanavir
↔ Ritonavir
9
Glecaprevir 300 mg / 
pibrentasvir 120 mg 
once daily
(atazanavir 300 mg / 
ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily*)
The mechanism of interaction 
between atazanavir/ritonavir and 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir 
is inhibition of OATP1B, Pgp, and 
CYP3A.
Glecaprevir AUC : ↑553% 
(↑424% ↑714%)
Glecaprevir cmax : ↑306% (↑215% 
↑423%)
Glecaprevir cmin : ↑1330% (↑885% 
↑1970%)
Pibrentasvir AUC : ↑64% (↑48% 
↑82%)
Pibrentasvir cmax : ↑29% (↑15% 
↑45%)
Pibrentasvir cmin: ↑129% (↑95% 
↑168%)
* Effect of atazanavir and ritonavir 
on the first dose of glecaprevir and 
pibrentasvir is reported.
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is 
contraindicated because of the 
potential increase in the risk 
of ALT elevations due to a 
significant increase in 
glecaprevir and pibrentasvir 
plasma concentrations (see 
section 4.3)
ANTI-RETROVIRALS
Protease inhibitors: The co-administration of atazanavir /ritonavir and other protease inhibitors has not been 
studied but would be expected to increase exposure to other protease inhibitors. Therefore, such co-
administration is not recommended.
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily)
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily is 
used as a booster of atazanavir 
pharmacokinetics.
Studies conducted in
HIV- infected patients.
Indinavir
Atazanavir AUC: ↑250% (↑144%
↑403%)*
Atazanavir cmax: ↑120% (↑56%
↑211%)*
Atazanavir cmin: ↑713% (↑359%
↑1339%)*
* In a combined analysis,
atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir
100 mg (n=33) was compared to
atazanavir 400 mg without
ritonavir (n=28).
The mechanism of interaction
between atazanavir and ritonavir is
CYP3A4 inhibition.
Indinavir is associated with
indirect unconjugated
hyperbilirubinaemia due to
inhibition of UGT.
Nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
Lamivudine 150 mg twice 
daily +  zidovudine 300 mg 
twice daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once
daily)
No significant effect on
lamivudine and zidovudine
concentrations was observed.
Abacavir
Didanosine (buffered tablets)
The co-administration of abacavir
and atazanavir is not expected to 
significantly alter the exposure of 
abacavir.
Atazanavir, simultaneous 
10
Co-administration of 
atazanavir and indinavir is not 
recommended (see section
4.4).
Based on these data and
because ritonavir is not
expected to have a significant
impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of NRTIs,
the co-administration of these 
medicinal products and 
atazanavir is not expected to 
significantly alter the exposure 
of the co-administered
medicinal products.
Didanosine should be taken at 
the fasted state 2 hours after 
atazanavir taken with food. 
The co-administration of 
stavudine with atazanavir is 
not expected to significantly 
alter the exposure of
stavudine.
When co-administered with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate,
it is recommended that 
atazanavir 300 mg be given 
with ritonavir 100 mg and 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg (all as a single dose
with food).
200 mg/stavudine 40 mg, both 
single dose
(atazanavir 400 mg single dose)
Didanosine (enteric coated 
capsules) 400 mg single dose
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
300 mg once daily
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate is equivalent to
245 mg tenofovir disoproxil
Studies conducted in
HIV- infected patients
administration with ddI+d4T
(fasted)
Atazanavir AUC ↓87% (↓92%
↓79%)
Atazanavir cmax ↓89% (↓94%
↓82%)
Atazanavir cmin ↓84% (↓90%
↓73%)
Atazanavir, dosed 1 hr after
ddI+d4T (fasted)
Atazanavir AUC ↔3% (↓36%
↑67%)
Atazanavir cmax ↑12% (↓33%
↑18%)
Atazanavir cmin ↔3% (↓39%
↑73%)
Atazanavir concentrations were
greatly decreased when co-
administered with didanosine
(buffered tablets) and stavudine.
The mechanism of interaction is a
reduced solubility of atazanavir
with increasing pH related to the
presence of anti-acid agent in 
didanosine buffered tablets.
No significant effect on didanosine 
and stavudine concentrations was 
observed.
Didanosine (with food)
Didanosine AUC ↓34% (↓41%
↓27%) Didanosine cmax ↓38%
(↓48% ↓26%) Didanosine cmin 
↑25% (↓8% ↑69%)
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed when 
administered with enteric-coated 
didanosine, but administration with 
food decreased didanosine 
concentrations.
Atazanavir AUC ↓22% (↓35%
↓6%) *
Atazanavir cmax ↓16% (↓30%
↔0%) *
Atazanavir cmin ↓23% (↓43% ↑2%)
*
* In a combined analysis from
several clinical studies,
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg
co-administered with tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg (n=39)
was compared to 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg 
(n=33).
The efficacy of atazanavir 
/ritonavir in combination with
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in
treatment- experienced patients has
11
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
300 mg once daily
(atazanavir 300 mg once
daily with ritonavir 100
mg once daily)
300 mg tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate is 
equivalent to 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil.
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once
daily)
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 200 mg once daily)
Nevirapine 200 mg twice daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)
Study conducted in HIV
infected patients
Patients should be closely 
monitored for tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate-associated 
adverse reactions, including 
renal disorders.
Co-administration of efavirenz 
and atazanavir is not 
recommended (see section
4.4)
Co-administration of
nevirapine and atazanavir is
not recommended (see section
4.4)
been demonstrated in clinical study
045 and in treatment naive patients
in clinical study 138 (see sections
4.8 and 5.1). The mechanism of
interaction between atazanavir and 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is 
unknown.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
AUC ↑37% (↑30% ↑45%)
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmax
↑34% (↑20% ↑51%)
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmin
↑29% (↑21% ↑36%)
Atazanavir (pm): all administered
with food
Atazanavir AUC ↔0% (↓9%
↑10%)*
Atazanavir cmax ↑17% (↑8%
↑27%)*
Atazanavir cmin ↓42% (↓51%
↓31%)*
Atazanavir (pm): all administered
with
food
Atazanavir AUC ↔6% (↓10%
↑26%)
*/**
Atazanavir cmax ↔9% (↓5%
↑26%)
*/**
Atazanavir cmin ↔12% (↓16%
↑49%)
*/**
* When compared to atazanavir 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once
daily in the evening without
efavirenz. This decrease in
atazanavir cmin, might negatively
impact the efficacy of atazanavir.
The mechanism of 
efavirenz/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 induction.
** Based on historical comparison.
Nevirapine AUC ↑26% (↑17%
↑36%)
Nevirapine cmax ↑21% (↑11%
↑32%)
Nevirapine cmin ↑35% (↑25%
↑47%)
Atazanavir AUC ↓19% (↓35%
↑2%) *
Atazanavir
↑24%) *
Atazanavir
↓40%) *
cmax ↔2% (↓15%
↓59% (↓73%
cmin
12
Integrase Inhibitors
Raltegravir 400 mg twice 
daily
(atazanavir/ritonavir)
ANTIBIOTICS
Clarithromycin 500 mg twice 
daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once
daily)
ANTIFUNGALS
Ketoconazole 200 mg once 
daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)
Itraconazole
* When compared to atazanavir 
300 mg and ritonavir 100 mg
without nevirapine. This decrease
in atazanavir Cmin, might
negatively impact the efficacy of
atazanavir. The mechanism of
nevirapine/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 induction.
Raltegravir AUC ↑41%
Raltegravir cmax ↑24%
Raltegravir c12hr ↑77%
The mechanism is UGT1A1
inhibition.
Clarithromycin AUC ↑94% (↑75%
↑116%)
Clarithromycin cmax ↑50% (↑32%
↑71%)
Clarithromycin cmin ↑160%
(↑135%
↑188%)
14-OH clarithromycin
14-OH clarithromycin AUC ↓70% 
(↓74% ↓66%)
14-OH clarithromycin cmax ↓72% 
(↓76% ↓67%)
14-OH clarithromycin cmin ↓62% 
(↓66% ↓58%)
Atazanavir AUC ↑28% (↑16%
↑43%)
Atazanavir cmax ↔6% (↓7%
↑20%)
Atazanavir cmin ↑91% (↑66%
↑121%)
A dose reduction of clarithromycin
may result in subtherapeutic
concentrations of 14-OH
clarithromycin. The mechanism of
the clarithromycin/atazanavir
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition.
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed.
Itraconazole, like ketoconazole, is
a potent inhibitor as well as a
substrate of CYP3A4.
Based on data obtained with other 
boosted PIs and ketoconazole,
where ketoconazole AUC showed
a 3-fold increase, atazanavir
/ritonavir is expected to increase
ketoconazole or itraconazole
13
No dose adjustment required
for raltegravir.
No recommendation regarding 
dose reduction can be made; 
therefore, caution should be 
exercised if atazanavir is co-
administered with 
clarithromycin.
Ketoconazole and itraconazole 
should be used cautiously with 
atazanavir /ritonavir, high
doses of ketoconazole and
itraconazole (>200 mg/day)
are not recommended.
Voriconazole 200 mg twice 
daily (atazanavir 300
mg/ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Subjects with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele.
Voriconazole 50 mg twice 
daily (atazanavir
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Subjects without a functional
CYP2C19 allele.
Fluconazole 200 mg once daily
(atazanavir 300 mg and 
ritonavir 100 mg once
daily)
ANTIMYCOBACTERIAL
Rifabutin 150 mg twice 
weekly
(atazanavir 300 mg and
ritonavir 100 mg once
daily)
concentrations.
Voriconazole AUC ↓33% (↓42% 
↓22%)
Voriconazole cmax ↓10% (↓22%
↓4%)
Voriconazole cmin ↓39% (↓49%
↓28%)
Atazanavir AUC ↓12% (↓18%
↓5%
Atazanavir cmax ↓13% (↓20%
↓4%)
Atazanavir cmin ↓ 20 % (↓28%
↓10%)
Ritonavir AUC ↓12% (↓17% ↓7%)
Ritonavir cmax ↓9% (↓17% ↔0%)
Ritonavir cmin ↓25% (↓35% ↓14%)
In the majority of patients with at
least one functional CYP2C19
allele, a reduction in both
voriconazole and atazanavir
exposures are expected.
Voriconazole AUC ↑561%
(↑451% ↑699%)
Voriconazole cmax ↑438% (↑355% 
↑539%)
Voriconazole cmin ↑765% (↑571%
↑1,020%)
Atazanavir AUC ↓20% (↓35%
↓3%)
Atazanavir cmax ↓19% (↓34%
↔0.2%)
Atazanavir cmin ↓ 31 % (↓46 %
↓13%)
Ritonavir AUC ↓11% (↓20% ↓1%) 
Ritonavir cmax ↓11% (↓24% ↑4%) 
Ritonavir cmin ↓19% (↓35% ↑1%)
In a small number of patients
without a functional CYP2C19
allele, significantly increased
voriconazole exposures are
expected.
Atazanavir and fluconazole 
concentrations were not
significantly modified when
atazanavir /ritonavir was co-
administered with fluconazole.
Co-administration of 
voriconazole and atazanavir
with ritonavir is not 
recommended unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk
to the patient justifies the use
of voriconazole (see section
4.4).
At the time voriconazole 
treatment is required, a
patient's CYP2C19 genotype
should be performed if
feasible.
Therefore if the combination
is unavoidable, the following 
recomendations are made 
according to the CYP2C19 
status:
- in patients with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele, 
close clinical monitoring for a 
loss of both voriconazole 
(clinical signs) and atazanavir 
(virologic response) efficacy
is recommended.
- in patients without a
functional CYP2C19 allele,
close clinical and laboratory
monitoring of voriconazole-
associated adverse events is
recommended.
If genotyping is not feasible,
full monitoring of safety and 
efficacy should be performed.
No dosage adjustments are 
needed for fluconazole and 
atazanavir.
Rifabutin AUC ↑48% (↑19%
↑84%) **
Rifabutin cmax ↑149% (↑103%
↑206%) **
Rifabutin cmin ↑40% (↑5% ↑87%)
**
When given with atazanavir, 
the recommended dose of 
rifabutin is 150 mg 3 times per 
week on set days (for example 
Monday-Wednesday-Friday). 
Increased monitoring for 
14
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin AUC
↑990% (↑714% ↑1361%) **
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin cmax
↑677% (↑513% ↑883%) **
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin cmin
↑1045% (↑715% ↑1510%) **
** When compared to rifabutin 
150 mg once daily alone. Total 
rifabutin and 25-O-desacetyl-
rifabutin AUC ↑119% (↑78%
↑169%).
In previous studies, the 
pharmacokinetics of atazanavir
was not altered by rifabutin.
Rifampicin is a strong CYP3A4 
inducer and has been shown to
cause a 72% decrease in atazanavir
AUC which can result in
virological failure and resistance
development. During attempts to
overcome the decreased exposure
by increasing the dose of 
atazanavir or other protease
inhibitors with ritonavir, a high
frequency of liver reactions was
seen.
Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by 
atazanavir, concentrations of 
quetiapine are expected to
increase.
Rifampicin
ANTIPSYCHOTICS
Quetiapine
Lurasidone
Atazanavir is expected to increase
plasma levels of lurasidone due to
CYP3A4 inhibition.
ACID REDUCING AGENTS
H2-Receptor antagonists
Without Tenofovir disoproxil
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended 
dose 300/100 mg once daily
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily
Atazanavir AUC ↓18% (↓25%
↑1%)
Atazanavir cmax ↓20% (↓32%
↓7%)
Atazanavir cmin ↔1% (↓16%
↑18%)
Atazanavir AUC ↓23% (↓32%
↓14%)
Atazanavir cmax ↓23% (↓33%
↓12%)
Atazanavir cmin ↓20% (↓31% ↓8%)
15
rifabutin-associated adverse 
reactions including
neutropenia and uveitis is
warranted due to an expected
increase in exposure to
rifabutin. Further dosage 
reduction of rifabutin to 150
mg twice weekly on set days
is recommended for patients
in whom the 150 mg dose 3
times per week is not
tolerated. It should be kept in
mind that the twice weekly
dosage of 150 mg may not
provide an optimal exposure
to rifabutin thus leading to a
risk of rifamycin resistance
and a treatment failure. No
dose adjustment is needed for
atazanavir.
The combination of rifampicin 
and atazanavir is 
contraindicated (see section
4.3).
Co-administration of
quetiapine with atazanavir is 
contraindicated as atazanavir
may increase quetiapine-
related toxicity. Increased
plasma concentrations of
quetiapine may lead to coma 
(see section 4.3).
Co-administration of
lurasidone with atazanavir is 
contraindicated as this may 
increase lurasidone-related 
toxicity (see section 4.3).
For patients not taking 
tenofovir disoproxil, if
atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg and H2-receptor 
antagonists are co-
administered, a dose
equivalent to famotidine 20
mg twice daily should not be 
exceeded. If a higher dose of
an H2-receptor antagonist is 
required (e.g., famotidine 40
mg twice daily or equivalent)
an increase of the atazanavir
In Healthy volunteers with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose
of 400/100 mg once daily
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily
Atazanavir AUC ↔3% (↓14%
↑22%)
Atazanavir cmax ↔2% (↓13%
↑8%)
Atazanavir cmin ↓14% (↓32% ↑8%)
/ritonavir dose from 300/100
mg to 400/100 mg can be
considered.
With Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily (equivalent to 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil)
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended 
dose of 300/100 mg once daily
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily
For patients who are taking 
tenofovir disoproxil, if
atazanavir/ritonavir with both
tenofovir disoproxil and an
H2-receptor antagonist are co-
administered, a dose increase
of atazanavir to 400 mg with
100 mg of ritonavir is
recommended. A dose 
equivalent to famotidine 40
mg twice daily should not be 
exceeded.
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose
of 400/100 mg once daily
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily
Atazanavir AUC ↓21% (↓34%
↓4%)*
Atazanavir cmax ↓21% (↓36%
↓4%)*
Atazanavir cmin ↓19% (↓37%
↑5%)*
Atazanavir AUC ↓24% (↓36%
↓11%)*
Atazanavir cmax ↓23% (↓36%
↓8%)*
Atazanavir cmin ↓25% (↓47%
↑7%)*
Atazanavir AUC ↑18% (↑6.5%
↑30%)*
Atazanavir cmax ↑18% (↑6.7%
↑31%)*
Atazanavir cmin ↑24 % (↑10%
↑39%)*
Atazanavir AUC ↔2.3% (↓13% 
↑10%)*
Atazanavir cmax ↔5% (↓17%
↑8.4%)*
Atazanavir cmin↔1.3% (↓10%
↑15)*
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily
Proton pump inhibitors
Omeprazole 40 mg once daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once
daily)
* When compared to atazanavir 
300 mg once daily with ritonavir 
100 mg once daily and tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg all as
a single dose with food. When
compared to atazanavir 300 mg
with ritonavir 100 mg without
tenofovir disoproxil, atazanavir
concentrations are expected to be
additionally decreased by about
20%.
The mechanism of interaction is 
decreased solubility of atazanavir
as intra-gastric pH increases with
H2- blockers.
Atazanavir (am): 2 hr after
omeprazole
Atazanavir AUC ↓61% (↓65%
↓55%)
Atazanavir cmax ↓66% (↓62%
↓49%)
Atazanavir cmin ↓65% (↓71%
↓59%)
16
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with ritonavir and 
proton pump inhibitors is not 
recommended. If the 
combination is judged 
unavoidable, close clinical 
monitoring is recommended in 
combination with an increase
Omeprazole 20 mg once daily
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily with
ritonavir 100 mg once daily)
Antacids
Antacids and medicinal 
products containing
buffers
Atazanavir (am): 1 hr after
omeprazole
Atazanavir AUC ↓30% (↓43%
↓14%)*
Atazanavir cmax ↓31% (↓42%
↓17%)*
Atazanavir cmin ↓31% (↓46%
↓12%)*
* When compared to atazanavir 
300 mg once daily with ritonavir 
100 mg once daily.
The decrease in AUC, cmax, and
cmin was not mitigated when an
increased dose of atazanavir 
/ritonavir (400/100 mg once daily)
was temporally separated from
omeprazole by 12 hours. Although
not studied, similar results are
expected with other proton pump
inhibitors. This decrease in
atazanavir exposure might 
negatively impact the efficacy of 
atazanavir. The mechanism of 
interaction is decreased solubility
of atazanavir as intra-gastric pH
increases with proton pump
inhibitors.
Reduced plasma concentrations of 
atazanavir may be the consequence
of increased gastric pH if antacids, 
including buffered medicinal
products, are administered with
atazanavir.
ALPHA 1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST
Alfuzosin
Potential for increased alfuzosin 
concentrations which can result in 
hypotension. The mechanism of 
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition
by atazanavir and/or ritonavir.
ANTICOAGULANTS
Direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs)
Apixaban
Rivaroxaban
Dabigatran
Potential for increased apixaban and 
rivaroxaban concentrations which 
can result in a higher risk of 
bleeding. 
The mechanism of interaction is 
inhibition of CYP3A4 / and P-gp by 
atazanavir/ritonavir.
Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of 
both CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Atazanavir is an inhibitor of 
CYP3A4. The potential inhibition 
of P-gp by atazanavir is unknown 
and cannot be excluded.
Potential for increased dabigatran  
concentrations which can result in a 
higher risk of bleeding. The 
17
in the dose of atazanavir to 
400 mg with 100 mg of 
ritonavir; doses of proton
pump inhibitors comparable to 
omeprazole 20 mg should not
be exceeded (see section 4.4).
Atazanavir should be 
administered 2 hours before or 
1 hour after antacids or
buffered medicinal products.
Co-administration of alfuzosin 
with atazanavir is 
contraindicated (see section
4.3)
Co-administration of apixaban 
or rivaroxaban and atazanavir 
with ritonavir is not 
recommended
Co-administration of dabigatran 
and atazanavir with ritonavir is 
not recommended.
mechanism of interaction is P-gp 
inhibition.
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor.
Potential P-gp inhibition by 
atazanavir is unknown and cannot 
be excluded.
Potential for increased edoxaban 
concentrations which can result in a 
higher risk of bleeding. The 
mechanism of interaction is P-gp 
inhibition by atazanavir /ritonavir.
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor.
Potential P-gp inhibition by 
atazanavir is unknown and cannot 
be excluded. 
Co-administration with atazanavir 
has the potential to increase or 
decrease warfarin concentrations.
Atazanavir may increase plasma 
levels of carbamazepine due to 
CYP3A4 inhibition.
Due to carbamazepine inducing
effect, a reduction in atazanavir
exposure cannot be ruled out.
Ritonavir may decrease plasma
levels of phenytoin and/or
phenobarbital due to CYP2C9 and
CYP2C19 induction. Due to
phenytoin/phenobarbital inducing
effect, a reduction in atazanavir
exposure cannot be ruled out.
Edoxaban
Vitamin K antagonists
Warfarin
ANTIEPILEPTICS
Carbamazepine
Phenytoin, phenobarbital
Lamotrigine
Co-administration of lamotrigine
and atazanavir /ritonavir may
decrease lamotrigine plasma
concentrations due to UGT1A4
induction.
18
Exercise caution when edoxaban 
is used with atazanavir.
Please refer to edoxaban SmPC 
section 4.2 and 4.5 for 
appropriate edoxaban dosage 
recommendations for 
co-administration with P-gp 
inhibitors.
It is recommended that the 
International Normalised
Ratio (INR) be monitored
carefully during treatment
with atazanavir, especially
when commencing therapy.
Carbamazepine should be
used with caution in
combination with atazanavir.
If necessary, monitor
carbamazepine serum 
concentrations and adjust the 
dose accordingly. Close 
monitoring of the patient's 
virologic response should be 
excercised.
Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
should be used with caution in 
combination with atazanavir
/ritonavir.
When atazanavir/ritonavir is 
co-administered with either 
phenytoin or phenobarbital, a 
dose adjustment of phenytoin
or phenobarbital may be
required.
Close monitoring of patient's 
virologic response should be 
exercised.
Lamotrigine should be used
with caution in combination
with atazanavir /ritonavir.
If necessary, monitor 
lamotrigine concentrations
and adjust the dose
accordingly.
ANTINEOPLASTICS AND IMMUNOSUPRESSANTS
Antineoplastics
Irinotecan
Atazanavir inhibits UGT and may 
interfere with the metabolism of 
irinotecan, resulting in increased 
irinotecan toxicities.
If atazanavir is co-administered
with irinotecan, patients should
be closely monitored for adverse 
events related to irinotecan.
Immunosuppressants
Cyclosporin 
Tacrolimus 
Sirolimus
CARDIOVASCULAR AGENTS
Antiarrhythmics
Amiodarone, 
Systemic lidocaine, 
Quinidine
Calcium channel blockers
Bepridil
Diltiazem 180 mg once daily
(atazanavir 400 mg
once daily)
Verapamil
CORTICOSTEROIDS
Fluticasone propionate 
intranasal 50 µg 4 times daily
for 7 days
Concentrations of these 
immunosuppressants may be
increased when co-administered
with atazanavir due to CYP3A4
inhibition.
More frequent therapeutic 
concentration monitoring of 
these medicinal products is 
recommended until plasma 
levels have been stabilised.
Concentrations of these 
antiarrhythmics may be increased 
when co-administered with 
atazanavir. The mechanism of 
amiodarone or systemic 
lidocaine/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A inhibition. Quinidine has a 
narrow therapeutic window and is 
contraindicated due to potential 
inhibition of CYP3A by 
atazanavir.
Atazanavir should not be used in 
combination with medicinal
products that are substrates of
CYP3A4 and have a narrow
therapeutic index.
Diltiazem AUC ↑125% (↑109%
↑141%)
Diltiazem cmax ↑98% (↑78%
↑119%)
Diltiazem cmin ↑142% (↑114%
↑173%)
Desacetyl-diltiazem AUC ↑165% 
(↑145% ↑187%)
Desacetyl-diltiazem cmax ↑172% 
(↑144% ↑203%)
Desacetyl-diltiazem cmin ↑121% 
(↑102% ↑142%)
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed.
There was an increase in the
maximum PR interval compared to
atazanavir alone. Co-
administration of diltiazem and 
atazanavir /ritonavir has not been 
studied. The mechanism of 
diltiazem/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition.
Serum concentrations of verapamil 
may be increased by atazanavir
due to CYP3A4 inhibition.
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring is recommended 
when available. The 
concomitant use of quinidine
is contraindicated (see section
4.3).
Co-administration with bepridil
is contraindicated (see section
4.3)
An initial dose reduction of 
diltiazem by 50% is 
recommended, with
subsequent titration as needed
and ECG monitoring.
Caution should be exercised 
when verapamil is co-
administered with atazanavir.
The fluticasone propionate plasma 
levels increased significantly,
whereas the intrinsic cortisol levels
Co-administration of 
atazanavir/ritonavir and these 
glucocorticoids is not 
19
(ritonavir 100 mg capsules 
twice daily)
ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION
PDE5 Inhibitors
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil
HERBAL PRODUCTS
St. John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum)
decreased by approximately 86%
(90% confidence interval 82%-
89%). Greater effects may be
expected when fluticasone
propionate is inhaled.
Systemic corticosteroid effects 
including Cushing’s syndrome and 
adrenal suppression have been 
reported in patients receiving
ritonavir and inhaled or
intranasally administered
fluticasone propionate; this could
also occur with other 
corticosteroids metabolised via the 
P450 3A pathway, e.g.,
budesonide. The effects of high
fluticasone systemic exposure on
ritonavir plasma levels are yet
unknown. The mechanism of
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition.
Sildenafil, tadalafil and vardenafil
are metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-
administration with atazanavir may 
result in increased concentrations
of the PDE5 inhibitor and an
increase in PDE5-associated
adverse events, including
hypotension, visual changes, and
priapism. The mechanism of this 
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition.
Concomitant use of St. John's wort 
with atazanavir may be expected to 
result in significant reduction in 
plasma levels of atazanavir. This
effect may be due to an induction 
of CYP3A4. There is a risk of loss
of therapeutic effect and
development of resistance (see
section 4.3).
HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVES
Ethinyloestradiol 25 μg +
norgestimate
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Ethinyloestradiol AUC ↓19%
(↓25% ↓13%)
Ethinyloestradiol cmax ↓16%
(↓26% ↓5%)
Ethinyloestradiol cmin ↓37%
(↓45% ↓29%)
Norgestimate AUC ↑85% (↑67%
↑105%)
Norgestimate cmax ↑68% (↑51%
↑88%)
Norgestimate cmin ↑102% (↑77%
↑131%)
While the concentration of 
ethinyloestradiol was increased
with atazanavir given alone, due to
both UGT and CYP3A4 inhibition
20
recommended unless the 
potential benefit of treatment 
outweighs the risk of systemic 
corticosteroid effects (see
section 4.4). A dose reduction
of the glucocorticoid should
be considered with close 
monitoring of local and
systemic effects or a switch to
a glucocorticoid, which is not
a substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g., 
beclomethasone). Moreover,
in case of withdrawal of 
glucocorticoids, progressive 
dose reduction may have to be 
performed over a longer
period.
Patients should be warned
about these possible side
effects when using PDE5
inhibitors for erectile
dysfunction with atazanavir
(see section 4.4). Also see
PULMONARY ARTERIAL
HYPERTENSION in this
table for futher information
regarding co- administration
of atazanavir with sildenafil.
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with products 
containing St. John's wort is 
contraindicated.
If an oral contraceptive is 
administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir, it is 
recommended that the oral 
contraceptive contain at least 
30 μg of ethinyloestradiol and 
that the patient be reminded of 
strict compliance with this 
contraceptive dosing regimen. 
Co-administration of 
atazanavir /ritonavir with
other hormonal contraceptives
or oral contraceptives
containing progestogens other
than norgestimate has not
been studied, and therefore
should be avoided. An
alternate reliable method of
by atazanavir, the net effect of 
atazanavir/ritonavir is a decrease in 
ethinyloestradiol levels because of
the inducing effect of ritonavir.
The increase in progestin exposure 
may lead to related side-effects
(e.g. insulin resistance,
dyslipidemia, acne and spotting),
thus possibly affecting the
compliance.
Ethinyloestradiol AUC ↑48%
(↑31% ↑68%)
Ethinyloestradiol cmax ↑15% (↓1% 
↑32%)
Ethinyloestradiol cmin ↑91%
(↑57% ↑133%)
Norethindrone AUC ↑110%
(↑68%
↑162%)
Norethindrone cmax ↑67% (↑42%
↑196%)
Norethindrone cmin ↑262%
(↑157%
↑409%)
The increase in progestin exposure 
may lead to related side-effects
(e.g. insulin resistance,
dyslipidemia, acne and spotting),
thus possibly affecting the
compliance.
Simvastatin and lovastatin are
highly dependent on CYP3A4 for
their metabolism and co-
administration with atazanavir may
result in increased concentrations.
The risk of myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis may also be
increased with atorvastatin, which
is also metabolised by CYP3A4.
Although not studied, there is a 
potential for an increase in 
pravastatin or fluvastatin exposure
when co- administered with
protease inhibitors. Pravastatin is
not metabolised by CYP3A4.
Fluvastatin is partially metabolised
by CYP2C9.
Ethinyloestradiol 35 µg +
norethindrone
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)
LIPID-MODIFYING AGENTS
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
Simvastatin
Lovastatin
Atorvastatin
Pravastatin
Fluvastatin
contraception is 
recommended.
Co-administration of
simvastatin or lovastatin with
atazanavir is contraindicated
due to an increased risk of
myopathy including
rhabdomyolysis (see section
4.3).
Co-administration of 
atorvastatin with atazanavir is 
not recommended. If the use
of atorvastatin is considered
strictly necessary, the lowest
possible dose of atorvastatin
should be administered with
careful safety monitoring (see
section 4.4).
Caution should be exercised.
Other lipid-modifying agents
Lomitapide
Lomitapide is highly dependent on 
CYP3A4 for metabolism and co-
Co-administration of 
lomitapide and atazanavir 
21
INHALED BETA AGONISTS
Salmeterol
OPIOIDS
Buprenorphine, once daily, 
stable maintenance dose
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily)
Methadone, stable 
maintenance dose
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily)
with ritonavir is 
contraindicated due to a 
potential risk of markedly 
increased transaminase levels 
and hepatotoxicity (see 
section 4.3).
Co-administration of
salmeterol with atazanavir is
not recommended (see section
4.4).
Co-administration with 
atazanavir with ritonavir 
warrants clinical monitoring
for sedation and cognitive
effects. A dose reduction of
buprenorphine may be
considered.
No dosage adjustment is 
necessary if methadone is co-
administered with atazanavir.
administration with atazanavir 
with ritonavir may result in 
increased concentrations.
Co-administration with atazanavir
may result in increased
concentrations of salmeterol and
an increase in salmeterol-
associated adverse events.
The mechanism of interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir 
and/or ritonavir.
Buprenorphine AUC ↑67%
Buprenorphine cmax ↑37%
Buprenorphine cmin ↑69%
Norbuprenorphine AUC ↑105%
Norbuprenorphine cmax ↑61%
Norbuprenorphine cmin ↑101%
The mechanism of interaction is 
CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 inhibition. 
Concentrations of atazanavir
(when given with ritonavir) were
not significantly affected.
No significant effect on methadone 
concentrations was observed.
Given that low dose ritonavir (100
mg twice daily) has been shown to
have no significant effect on
methadone concentrations, no
interaction is expected if
methadone is co- administered
with atazanavir, based on these
data.
PULMONARY ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION
PDE5 Inhibitors
Sildenafil
Co-administration with atazanavir
may result in increased
concentrations of the PDE5
inhibitor and an increase in PDE5-
inhibitor-associated adverse events.
The mechanism of interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir 
and/or ritonavir.
A safe and effective dose in 
combination with atazanavir 
has not been established for 
sildenafil when used to treat 
pulmonary arterial
hypertension. Sildenafil, when
used for the treatment of
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension, is
contraindicated (see section
4.3).
SEDATIVES
Benzodiazepines
Midazolam
Triazolam
Midazolam and triazolam are 
extensively metabolised by
CYP3A4. Co-administration with
atazanavir may cause a large
increase in the concentration of
these benzodiazepines. No drug
interaction study has been
Co-administration of 
atazanavir with triazolam or 
orally administered
midazolam is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3), whereas 
caution should be used with
co- administration of
22
performed for the co-
administration of atazanavir with 
benzodiazepines. Based on data for 
other CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma 
concentrations of midazolam are 
expected to be significantly higher 
when midazolam is given orally.
Data from concomitant use of
parenteral midazolam with other
protease inhibitors suggest a
possible 3-4 fold increase in
midazolam plasma levels.
atazanavir and parenteral
midazolam. If atazanavir is
co-administered with
parenteral midazolam, it 
should be done in an intensive 
care unit (ICU) or similar
setting which ensures close
clinical monitoring and
appropriate medical
management in case of 
respiratory depression and/or 
prolonged sedation. Dosage 
adjustment for midazolam 
should be considered,
especially if more than a 
single dose of midazolam is 
administered.
In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the recommended atazanavir boosted regimen (see section 4.4)
The same recommendations for drug interactions would apply except:
-
that co-administration is not recommended with tenofovir, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
phenobarbital, proton pump inhibitors, and buprenorphine.
that co-administration with famotidine is not recommended but if required, atazanavir without 
ritonavir should be administered either 2 hours after famotidine or 12 hours before. No single
dose of famotidine should exceed 20 mg, and the total daily dose of famotidine should not
exceed 40 mg.
the need to consider that
-
co-administration of apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban and atazanavir without 
-
-
ritonavir may affect apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban concentrations
co-administration of voriconazole and atazanavir without ritonavir may affect atazanavir 
concentrations
co-administration of fluticasone and atazanavir without ritonavir may increase fluticasone
concentrations relative to fluticasone given alone
if an oral contraceptive is administered with atazanavir without ritonavir, it is 
recommended that the oral contraceptive contain no more than 30 µg of ethinyloestradiol
no dose adjustment of lamotrigine is required
-
-
-
-
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
A moderate amount of data in pregnant women (between 300-1000 pregnancy outcomes)
indicate no malformative toxicity of atazanavir. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive
toxicity (see section 5.3). The use of Atazanavir Krka with ritonavir may be considered
during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk.
In clinical trial AI424-182 atazanavir /ritonavir (300/100 mg or 400/100 mg) in combination
with zidovudine/lamivudine was administered to 41 pregnant women during the second or third
trimester. Six of 20 (30%) women on atazanavir /ritonavir 300/100 mg and 13 of 21 (62%)
women on atazanavir /ritonavir 400/100 mg experienced grades 3 to 4 hyperbilirubinaemia.
There were no cases of lactic acidosis observed in the clinical trial AI424-182.
The study assessed 40 infants who received antiretroviral prophylactic treatment (which did not 
include atazanavir) and were negative for HIV-1 DNA at the time of delivery and/or during the first 6
months postpartum. Three of 20 infants (15%) born to women treated with atazanavir /ritonavir 
300/100 mg and four of 20 infants (20%) born to women treated with atazanavir /ritonavir 400/100
23
mg experienced grade 3-4 bilirubin. There was no evidence of pathologic jaundice and six of 40
infants in this study received phototherapy for a maximum of 4 days. There were no reported cases of
kernicterus in neonates.
For dosing recommendations see section 4.2 and for pharmacokinetic data see section 5.2.
It is not known whether atazanavir with ritonavir administered to the mother during pregnancy will 
exacerbate physiological hyperbilirubinaemia and lead to kernicterus in neonates and infants. In the 
prepartum period, additional monitoring should be considered.
Breast-feeding
Atazanavir has been detected in human milk. In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is 
recommended that women living with HIV do not breast-feed their infants.
Fertility
In a nonclinical fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus 
cycling with no effects on mating or fertility (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Patients should be informed that dizziness has been reported during treatment with regimens 
containing atazanavir (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Atazanavir has been evaluated for safety in combination therapy with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products in controlled clinical trials in 1,806 adult patients receiving atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
(1,151 patients, 52 weeks median duration and 152 weeks maximum duration) or atazanavir 300 mg 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (655 patients, 96 weeks median duration and 108 weeks maximum 
duration).
Adverse reactions were consistent between patients who received atazanavir 400 mg once daily and 
patients who received atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily, except that jaundice and 
elevated total bilirubin levels were reported more frequently with atazanavir plus ritonavir.
Among patients who received atazanavir 400 mg once daily or atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100
mg once daily, the only adverse reactions of any severity reported very commonly with at least a 
possible relationship to regimens containing atazanavir and one or more NRTIs were nausea (20%), 
diarrhoea (10%), and jaundice (13%). Among patients receiving atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100
mg, the frequency of jaundice was 19%. In the majority of cases, jaundice was reported within a few
days to a few months after the initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has 
been reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown 
an association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the 
renal function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.4).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Assessment of adverse reactions for atazanavir is based on safety data from clinical studies and post-
marketing experience. Frequency is defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very 
rare (< 1/10 000). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness.
24
Immune system disorders:
Metabolism and nutrition
disorders
Psychiatric disorders:
Nervous system disorders:
Eye disorders:
Cardiac disorders:
Vascular disorders:
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders:
Hepatobiliary disorders:
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders:
Musculoskeletal and connective
tissue disorders
Renal and urinary disorders:
Reproductive system and breast
disorders:
General disorders and
administration site conditions:
uncommon: hypersensitivity
uncommon: weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia, appetite increased
uncommon: depression, disorientation, anxiety, insomnia, sleep
disorder, abnormal dream
common: headache;
uncommon: peripheral neuropathy, syncope, amnesia, dizziness,
somnolence, dysgeusia
common: ocular icterus
uncommon: torsades de pointesa
rare: QTc prolongationa, oedema, palpitation
uncommon: hypertension
uncommon: dyspnoea
common: vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, nausea, dyspepsia;
uncommon: pancreatitis, gastritis, abdominal distension, stomatitis
aphthous, flatulence, dry mouth
common: jaundice;
uncommon: hepatitis, cholelithiasisa, cholestasisa;
rare: hepatosplenomegaly, cholecystitisa
common: rash;
uncommon: erythemia multiformea,b, toxic skin eruptionsa,b, drug rash
with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndromea,b, 
angioedemaa, urticaria, alopecia, pruritus;
rare: Stevens-Johnson syndromea,b, vesiculobullous rash, eczema, 
vasodilatation
uncommon: muscle atrophy, arthralgia, myalgia;
rare: myopathy
uncommon: nephrolithiasisa, haematuria, proteinuria, pollakiuria, 
interstitial nephritis; chronic kidney diseasea
rare: kidney pain
uncommon: gynaecomastia
common: fatigue;
uncommon: chest pain, malaise, pyrexia, asthenia;
rare: gait disturbance
aThese adverse reactions were identified through post-marketing surveillance, however, the frequencies were estimated from 
a statistical calculation based on the total number of patients exposed to atazanavir in randomised controlled and other 
available clinical trials (n = 2321).
bSee description of selected adverse reactions for more details.
Description of selected adverse reactions
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease and autoimmune hepatitis)
have also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can
occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4).
Metabolic parameters
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section
4.4).
Rash and associated syndromes
Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks 
of starting therapy with atazanavir.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions and drug rash with 
25
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported with the use of 
atazanavir (see section 4.4).
Laboratory abnormalities
The most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in patients receiving regimens containing 
atazanavir and one or more NRTIs was elevated total bilirubin reported predominantly as elevated 
indirect [unconjugated] bilirubin (87% Grade 1, 2, 3, or 4). Grade 3 or 4 elevation of total bilirubin 
was noted in 37% (6% Grade 4). Among experienced patients treated with atazanavir 300 mg once 
daily with 100 mg ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 95 weeks, 53% had Grade 3-4 total 
bilirubin elevations. Among naive patients treated with atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 100 mg 
ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 96 weeks, 48% had Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations 
(see section 4.4).
Other marked clinical laboratory abnormalities (Grade 3 or 4) reported in ≥ 2% of patients receiving 
regimens containing atazanavir and one or more NRTIs included: elevated creatine kinase (7%), 
elevated alanine aminotransferase/serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (ALT/SGPT) (5%), low 
neutrophils (5%), elevated aspartate aminotransferase/serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 
(AST/SGOT) (3%), and elevated lipase (3%).
Two percent of patients treated with atazanavir experienced concurrent Grade 3-4 ALT/AST and Grade
3-4 total bilirubin elevations.
Paediatric population
In a clinical study AI424-020, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 18 years of age who received 
either the oral powder or capsule formulation had a mean duration of treatment with atazanavir of 
115 weeks. The safety profile in this study was overall comparable to that seen in adults. Both 
asymptomatic first-degree (23%) and second-degree (1%) atrioventricular block were reported in 
paediatric patients. The most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in paediatric patients 
receiving atazanavir was elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4) which occurred in 
45% of patients.
In clinical studies AI424-397 and AI424-451, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 11 years of age 
had a mean duration of treatment with atazanavir oral powder of 80 weeks. No deaths were reported. 
The safety profile in these studies was overall comparable to that seen in previous paediatric and adult 
studies. The most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities in paediatric patients receiving 
atazanavir oral powder was elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4; 16%) and 
increased amylase (Grade 3-4; 33%), generally of non-pancreatic origin. Elevation in ALT levels were 
more frequently reported in paediatric patients in these studies than in adults.
Other special populations
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus
Among 1,151 patients receiving atazanavir 400 mg once daily, 177 patients were co-infected with 
chronic hepatitis B or C, and among 655 patients receiving atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily, 97 patients were co-infected with chronic hepatitis B or C. Co-
infected patients were more likely to have baseline hepatic transaminase elevations than those
without chronic viral hepatitis. No differences in frequency of bilirubin elevations were observed
between these patients and those without viral hepatitis. The frequency of treatment emergent
hepatitis or transaminase elevations in co-infected patients was comparable between atazanavir
and comparator regimens (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
26
Human experience of acute overdose with atazanavir is limited. Single doses up to 1,200 mg have 
been taken by healthy volunteers without symptomatic untoward effects. At high doses that lead to 
high drug exposures, jaundice due to indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia (without associated 
liver function test changes) or PR interval prolongations may be observed (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).
Treatment of overdose with Atazanavir Krka should consist of general supportive measures, including 
monitoring of vital signs and electrocardiogram (ECG), and observations of the patient's clinical
status. If indicated, elimination of unabsorbed atazanavir should be achieved by emesis or gastric
lavage. Administration of activated charcoal may also be used to aid removal of unabsorbed drug.
There is no specific antidote for overdose with Atazanavir Krka. Since atazanavir is extensively
metabolised by the liver and is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be beneficial in significant
removal of this medicinal product.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE08.
Mechanism of action
Atazanavir is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI). The compound selectively inhibits the 
virus-specific processing of viral Gag-Pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation 
of mature virions and infection of other cells.
Antiviral activity in vitro: atazanavir exhibits anti-HIV-1 (including all clades tested) and anti-HIV-2 
activity in cell culture.
Resistance
Antiretroviral treatment naive adult patients
In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment naive patients treated with unboosted atazanavir, the I50L 
substitution, sometimes in combination with an A71V change, is the signature resistance substitution 
for atazanavir. Resistance levels to atazanavir ranged from 3.5- to 29-fold without evidence of 
phenotypic cross resistance to other PIs. In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment naive patients 
treated with boosted atazanavir, the I50L substitution did not emerge in any patient without baseline
PI substitutions. The N88S substitution has been rarely observed in patients with virologic failure on 
atazanavir (with or without ritonavir). While it may contribute to decreased susceptibility to
atazanavir when it occurs with other protease substitutions, in clinical studies N88S by itself does
not always lead to phenotypic resistance to atazanavir or have a consistent impact on clinical
efficacy.
Table 3. De novo substitutions in treatment naive patients failing therapy with atazanavir +
ritonavir (Study 138, 96 weeks)
Frequency
>20%
10-20%
a 
Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/ml).
de novo PI substitution (n=26)a
none
none
The M184I/V substitution emerged in 5/26 atazanavir /ritonavir and 7/26 lopinavir/ritonavir virologic 
failure patients, respectively.
Antiretroviral treatment experienced adult patients
In antiretroviral treatment experienced patients from Studies 009, 043, and 045, 100 isolates from 
patients designated as virological failures on therapy that included either atazanavir, atazanavir + 
ritonavir, or atazanavir + saquinavir were determined to have developed resistance to atazanavir. Of 
the 60 isolates from patients treated with either atazanavir or atazanavir + ritonavir, 18 (30%) 
27
displayed the I50L phenotype previously described in naive patients.
Table 4. De novo substitutions in treatment experienced patients failing therapy with atazanavir
+ ritonavir (Study 045, 48 weeks)
Frequency
>20%
10-20%
a 
Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/ml).
b Ten patients had baseline phenotypic resistance to atazanavir + ritonavir (fold change [FC]>5.2). FC susceptibility in cell 
culture relative to the wild-type reference was assayed using PhenoSenseTM (Monogram Biosciences, South San Francisco, 
California, USA)
de novo PI substitution (n=35)a,b
M36, M46, I54, A71, V82
L10, I15, K20, V32, E35, S37, F53, I62, G73, I84, L90
None of the de novo substitutions (see Table 4) are specific to atazanavir and may reflect re-
emergence of archived resistance on atazanavir + ritonavir in Study 045 treatment-experienced 
population.
The resistance in antiretroviral treatment experienced patients mainly occurs by accumulation of the 
major and minor resistance substitutions described previously to be involved in protease inhibitor 
resistance.
Clinical results
In antiretroviral naive adult patients
Study 138 is an international randomised, open-label, multicenter, prospective trial of treatment naïve 
patients comparing atazanavir /ritonavir (300 mg/100 mg once daily) to lopinavir/ritonavir (400
mg/100 mg twice daily), each in combination with fixed dose tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate/emtricitabine (300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). The atazanavir /ritonavir arm showed 
similar (non-inferior) antiviral efficacy compared to the lopinavir/ritonavir arm, as assessed by the 
proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 48 (Table 5).
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment demonstrated durability of antiviral activity (Table 5).
Table 5:
Efficacy Outcomes in Study 138a
atazanavir /ritonavirb (300 mg/100 mg 
once daily) n=440
Week 48
Week 96
Lopinavir/ritonavirc (400 mg/100 mg 
twice daily) n=443
Week 48
Week 96
74
78
82 (n=217)
86 (n=392f)
91
(n=352)
Week 48: -3% [-7.6%, 1.5%]
Week 96: 2.2% [-2.3%, 6.7%]
Week 48: 1.7% [-3.8%, 7.1%]
Week 96: 6.1% [0.3%, 12.0%]
HIV RNA <50 copies/ml, %
All patientsd
Difference estimate
[95% CI]d
Per protocol
analysise
Difference
estimatee
[95% CI]
HIV RNA <50 copies/ml, % by Baseline Characteristicd
HIV RNA
<100,000 copies/ml
≥100,000 copies/ml
CD4 count
<50 cells/mm3
50 to <100
cells/mm3
100 to <200
cells/mm3
≥ 200 cells/mm3
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/ml
All patients
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3
All patients
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 by Baseline Characteristic
HIV RNA
-3.21 (n=360)
-3.09 (n=397)
243 (n=163)
268 (n=336)
179 (n=183)
203 (n=370)
75 (n=217)
76 (n=222)
71 (n=106)
74 (n=223)
74 (n=223)
80 (n=222)
75 (n=106)
71 (n=45)
78 (n=58)
76 (n=45)
78 (n=58)
76
68
89
(n=372)
89
(n=331)
81 (n=218)
72 (n=225)
63 (n=48)
70 (n=218)
66 (n=225)
58 (n=48)
69 (n=29)
69 (n=29)
78 (n=134)
80 (n=228)
-3.13 (n=379)
219 (n=363)
194 (n=183)
70 (n=134)
69 (n=228)
-3.19 (n=340)
290 (n=317)
267 (n=152)
28
<100,000 copies/ml
≥100,000 copies/ml
227 (n=187)
310 (n=165)
291 (n=173)
a Mean baseline CD4 cell count was 214 cells/mm3 (range 2 to 810 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was
4.94 log10 copies/ml (range 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/ml)
b atazanavir /RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily).
c Lopinavir/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily).
d Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures.
e Per protocol analysis: Excluding non-completers and patients with major protocol deviations.
f Number of patients evaluable.
245 (n=180)
Data on withdrawal of ritonavir from atazanavir boosted regimen (see also section 4.4)
Study 136 (INDUMA)
In an open-label, randomised, comparative study following a 26- to 30-week induction phase with 
atazanavir 300 mg + ritonavir 100 mg once daily and two NRTIs, unboosted atazanavir 400 mg once
daily and two NRTIs administered during a 48-week maintenance phase (n=87) had similar antiviral
efficacy compared with atazanavir + ritonavir and two NRTIs (n=85) in HIV infected subjects with
fully suppressed HIV replication, as assessed by the proportion of subjects with HIV RNA < 50
copies/ml: 78% of subjects on unboosted atazanavir and two NRTIs compared with 75% on atazanavir
+ ritonavir and two NRTIs.
Eleven subjects (13%) in the unboosted atazanavir group and 6 (7%) in the atazanavir + ritonavir 
group, had virologic rebound. Four subjects in the unboosted atazanavir group and 2 in the 
atazanavir + ritonavir group had HIV RNA > 500 copies/ml during the maintenance phase. No 
subject in either group showed emergence of protease inhibitor resistance. The M184V substitution
in reverse transcriptase, which confers resistance to lamivudine and emtricitabine, was detected in 2
subjects in the unboosted atazanavir and 1 subject in the atazanavir + ritonavir group.
There were fewer treatment discontinuations in the unboosted atazanavir group (1 vs. 4 subjects in 
the atazanavir + ritonavir group). There was less hyperbilirubinaemia and jaundice in the unboosted 
atazanavir group compared with the atazanavir + ritonavir group (18 and 28 subjects, respectively).
In antiretroviral experienced adult patients
Study 045 is a randomised, multicenter trial comparing atazanavir /ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) 
and atazanavir /saquinavir (400/1,200 mg once daily), to lopinavir + ritonavir (400/100 mg fixed dose 
combination twice daily), each in combination with tenofovir disoproxil (see sections 4.5 and 4.8) and
one NRTI, in patients with virologic failure on two or more prior regimens containing at least one PI,
NRTI, and NNRTI. For randomised patients, the mean time of prior antiretroviral exposure was 138
weeks for PIs, 281 weeks for NRTIs, and 85 weeks for NNRTIs. At baseline, 34% of patients were
receiving a PI and 60% were receiving an NNRTI. Fifteen of 120 (13%) patients in the atazanavir +
ritonavir treatment arm and 17 of 123 (14%) patients in the lopinavir + ritonavir arm had four or more
of the PI substitutions L10, M46, I54, V82, I84, and L90. Thirty-two percent of patients in the study
had a viral strain with fewer than two NRTI substitutions.
The primary endpoint was the time-averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA through
48 weeks (Table 6).
Table 6:
Parameter
Efficacy Outcomes at Week 48a and at Week 96 (Study 045)
ATV/RTVb (300 mg/
100 mg once daily 
(n=120)
LPV/RTVc (400 mg/
100 mg twice daily 
(n=123)
Time-averaged difference
ATV/RTV-LPV/RTV
[97.5% CId]
Week 48
Week 96
Week 48
Week 96
Week 48
Week 96
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/ml
All patients
-1.93 
(n=90e)
-2.29
(n=64)
-1.87
(n=99)
-2.08
(n=65)
0.13
[-0.12, 0.39]
0.14
[-0.13, 0.41]
HIV RNA <50 copies/ml, %f (responder/evaluable)
29
All patients
NA
HIV RNA <50 copies/ml by select baseline PI substitutions,f,g % (responder/evaluable)
42 (52/123)
32 (38/120)
36 (43/120)
35 (41/118)
0-2
41 (26/63)
3
9 (1/11)
≥ 4
24 (11/45)
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3
44 (28/63)
18 (2/11)
27 (12/45)
56 (32/57)
38 (6/16)
28 (14/50)
48 (26/54)
33 (5/15)
20 (10/49)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
154 (n=60)
110 (n=83)
122 (n=60)
121 (n=94)
All patients
a The mean baseline CD4 cell count was 337 cells/mm3 (range: 14 to 1,543 cells/mm3) and the mean baseline plasma HIV-1
RNA level was 4.4 log10 copies/ml (range: 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/ml).
b ATV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily).
c LPV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily).
d Confidence interval.
e Number of patients evaluable.
f Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. Responders on LPV/RTV who completed treatment 
before Week 96 are excluded from Week 96 analysis. The proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml were
53% and 43% for ATV/RTV and 54% and 46% for LPV/RTV at weeks 48 and 96 respectively.
g Select substitutions include any change at positions L10, K20, L24, V32, L33, M36, M46, G48, I50, I54, L63, A71,
G73, V82, I84, and L90 (0-2, 3, 4 or more) at baseline.
NA = not applicable.
NA
Through 48 weeks of treatment, the mean changes from baseline in HIV RNA levels for atazanavir
+ ritonavir and lopinavir + ritonavir were similar (non-inferior). Consistent results were obtained
with the last observation carried forward method of analysis (time-averaged difference of 0.11,
97.5% confidence interval [-0.15, 0.36]). By as-treated analysis, excluding missing values, the
proportions of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml (< 50 copies/ml) in the atazanavir +
ritonavir arm and the lopinavir + ritonavir arm were 55% (40%) and 56% (46%), respectively.
Through 96 weeks of treatment, mean HIV RNA changes from baseline for atazanavir + ritonavir 
and lopinavir + ritonavir met criteria for non-inferiority based on observed cases. Consistent
results were obtained with the last observation carried forward method of analysis. By as-treated
analysis, excluding missing values, the proportions of patients with HIV RNA <400 copies/ml
(<50 copies/ml) for atazanavir + ritonavir were 84% (72%) and for lopinavir + ritonavir were 82%
(72%). It is important to note that at time of the 96-week analysis, 48 % of patients overall
remained on study.
Atazanavir + saquinavir was shown to be inferior to lopinavir + ritonavir.
Paediatric population
Assessment of the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and efficacy of atazanavir is based on
data from the open-label, multicenter clinical trial AI424-020 conducted in patients from 3
months to 21 years of age. Overall in this study, 182 paediatric patients (81 antiretroviral-naive
and 101 antiretroviral-experienced) received once daily atazanavir (capsule or powder
formulation), with or without ritonavir, in combination with two NRTIs.
The clinical data derived from this study are inadequate to support the use of atazanavir capsules
(with or without ritonavir) in children below 6 years of age.
Efficacy data observed in the 41 paediatric patients aged 6 years to less than 18 years that received 
atazanavir capsules with ritonavir are presented in Table 7. For treatment-naive paediatric patients, the
mean baseline CD4 cell count was 344 cells/mm3 (range: 2 to 800 cells/ mm3) and mean baseline 
plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.67 log10 copies/ml (range: 3.70 to 5.00 log10 copies/ml). For treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 522 cells/mm3 (range: 100 to 
1157 cells/ mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.09 log10 copies/ml (range: 3.28 to 5.00
log10 copies/ml).
Table 7:
Efficacy Outcomes (paediatric patients 6 years to less than 18 years of age) at
Week 48 (Study AI424-020)
30
Parameter
Treatment-Naive atazanavir 
Capsules/ritonavir (300 mg/100 
mg once daily)
n=16
Treatment- Experienced
atazanavir
Capsules/ritonavir (300 mg/100 
mg once daily)
n=25
81 (13/16)
HIV RNA <50 copies/ml, % a
All patients
HIV RNA <400 copies/ml, % a
All patients
88 (14/16)
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3
All patients
HIV RNA <50 copies/ml by select baseline PI substitutions,c % (responder/evaluabled)
0-2
3
≥4
229 (n=14b)
293 (n=14b)
NA
NA
NA
24 (6/25)
32 (8/25)
27 (4/15)
-
0 (0/3)
a Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures.
b Number of patients evaluable.
c PI major L24I, D30N, V32I, L33F, M46IL, I47AV, G48V, I50LV, F53LY, I54ALMSTV, L76V, V82AFLST, I84V, 
N88DS, L90M; PI minor: L10CFIRV, V11I, E35G, K43T, Q58E, A71ILTV, G73ACST, T74P, N83D, L89V.
d Includes patients with baseline resistance data. 
NA = not applicable.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics of atazanavir were evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-infected 
patients; significant differences were observed between the two groups. The pharmacokinetics of 
atazanavir exhibit a non-linear disposition.
Absorption: in HIV-infected patients (n=33, combined studies), multiple dosing of atazanavir 300 mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for 
atazanavir, cmax of 4466 (42%) ng/ml, with time to cmax of approximately 2.5 hours. The geometric 
mean (CV%) for atazanavir cmin and AUC was 654 (76%) ng/ml and 44185 (51%) ng•h/ml,
respectively.
In HIV-infected patients (n=13), multiple dosing of atazanavir 400 mg (without ritonavir) once daily 
with food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir cmax of 2298 (71) ng/ml, with time to cmax
of approximately 2.0 hours. The geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir cmin and AUC were 120 (109) 
ng/ml and 14874 (91) ng•h/ml, respectively.
Food effect: co-administration of atazanavir and ritonavir with food optimises the bioavailability of 
atazanavir. Co-administration of a single 300 mg dose of atazanavir and 100 mg dose of ritonavir with
a light meal resulted in a 33% increase in the AUC and a 40% increase in both the cmax and the 24 hour
concentration of atazanavir relative to the fasting state. Co-administration with a high-fat meal did not
affect the AUC of atazanavir relative to fasting conditions and the cmax was within 11% of fasting
values. The 24 hour concentration following a high fat meal was increased by approximately 33% due
to delayed absorption; the median Tmax increased from 2.0 to 5.0 hours. Administration of atazanavir
with ritonavir with either a light or a high-fat meal decreased the coefficient of variation of AUC and
cmax by approximately 25% compared to the fasting state. To enhance bioavailability and minimise
variability, atazanavir is to be taken with food.
Distribution: atazanavir was approximately 86% bound to human serum proteins over a concentration 
range of 100 to 10,000 ng/ml. Atazanavir binds to both alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) and albumin 
to a similar extent (89% and 86%, respectively, at 1,000 ng/ml). In a multiple-dose study in HIV-
infected patients dosed with 400 mg of atazanavir once daily with a light meal for 12 weeks, atazanavir 
was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid and semen.
Metabolism: studies in humans and in vitro studies using human liver microsomes have demonstrated 
that atazanavir is principally metabolised by CYP3A4 isozyme to oxygenated metabolites. Metabolites 
are then excreted in the bile as either free or glucuronidated metabolites. Additional minor metabolic 
31
pathways consist of N-dealkylation and hydrolysis. Two minor metabolites of atazanavir in plasma 
have been characterised. Neither metabolite demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity.
Elimination: following a single 400 mg dose of 14C-atazanavir, 79% and 13% of the total radioactivity 
was recovered in the faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged drug accounted for approximately 20%
and 7% of the administered dose in the faeces and urine, respectively. Mean urinary excretion of 
unchanged drug was 7% following 2 weeks of dosing at 800 mg once daily. In HIV-infected adult 
patients (n=33, combined studies) the mean half-life within a dosing interval for atazanavir was 12 
hours at steady state following a dose of 300 mg daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with a light 
meal.
Special populations
Renal impairment: in healthy subjects, the renal elimination of unchanged atazanavir was approximately 
7% of the administered dose. There are no pharmacokinetic data available for atazanavir with ritonavir
in patients with renal insufficiency. atazanavir (without ritonavir) has been studied in adult patients
with severe renal impairment (n=20), including those on haemodialysis, at multiple doses of 400 mg
once daily. Although this study presented some limitations (i.e., unbound drug concentrations not
studied), results suggested that the atazanavir pharmacokinetic parameters were decreased by 30% to
50% in patients undergoing haemodialysis compared to patients with normal renal function. The
mechanism of this decrease is unknown (see sections 4.2 and 4.4.).
Hepatic impairment: atazanavir is metabolised and eliminated primarily by the liver. Atazanavir
(without ritonavir) has been studied in adult subjects with moderate-to-severe hepatic impairment (14 
Child-Pugh Class B and 2 Child-Pugh Class C subjects) after a single 400 mg dose. The mean 
AUC(0-∞) was 42% greater in subjects with impaired hepatic function than in healthy subjects. The 
mean half-life of atazanavir in hepatically impaired subjects was 12.1 hours compared to 6.4 hours in 
healthy subjects. The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir after a 300 
mg dose with ritonavir have not been studied. Concentrations of atazanavir with or without ritonavir 
are expected to be increased in patients with moderately or severely impaired hepatic function (see 
sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4).
Age/Gender: a study of the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir was performed in 59 healthy male and 
female subjects (29 young, 30 elderly). There were no clinically important pharmacokinetic 
differences based on age or gender.
Race: a population pharmacokinetic analysis of samples from Phase II clinical trials indicated no 
effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir.
Pregnancy:
The pharmacokinetic data from HIV-infected pregnant women receiving atazanavir capsules with 
ritonavir are presented in Table 8.
Table 8:
Pregnant Women in the Fed State
Steady-State Pharmacokinetics of Atazanavir with ritonavir in HIV-Infected
atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg
Pharmacokinetic 
Parameter
Cmax ng/mL
Geometric mean (CV%)
AUC ng•h/mL
Geometric mean (CV%)
Cmin ng/mLb
Geometric mean (CV%)
2nd Trimester
(n=9)
3729.09
(39)
34399.1
(37)
663.78
(36)
3rd Trimester
(n=20)
3291.46
(48)
34251.5
(43)
668.48
(50)
postpartuma
(n=36)
5649.10
(31)
60532.7
(33)
1420.64
(47)
a Atazanavir peak concentrations and AUCs were found to be approximately 26-40% higher during the postpartum period (4-
12 weeks) than those observed historically in HIV infected, non-pregnant patients. Atazanavir plasma trough concentrations
were approximately 2-fold higher during the postpartum period when compared to those observed historically in HIV infected
non-pregnant patients.
32
b Cmin is concentration 24 hours post-dose
Paediatric population
There is a trend toward a higher clearance in younger children when normalised for body weight. As a 
result, greater peak to trough ratios are observed; however at recommended doses, geometric mean 
atazanavir exposures (cmin, cmax and AUC) in paediatric patients are expected to be similar to those 
observed in adults.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In repeat-dose toxicity studies, conducted in mice, rats, and dogs, atazanavir-related findings were 
generally confined to the liver and included generally minimal to mild increases in serum bilirubin and 
liver enzymes, hepatocellular vacuolation and hypertrophy, and, in female mice only, hepatic single-
cell necrosis. Systemic exposures of atazanavir in mice (males), rats, and dogs at doses associated with 
hepatic changes were at least equal to that observed in humans given 400 mg once daily. In female 
mice, atazanavir exposure at a dose that produced single-cell necrosis was 12 times the exposure in 
humans given 400 mg once daily. Serum cholesterol and glucose were minimally to mildly increased 
in rats but not in mice or dogs.
During in vitro studies, cloned human cardiac potassium channel (hERG), was inhibited by 15% at a 
concentration (30 μM) of atazanavir corresponding to 30 fold the free drug concentration at cmax in 
humans. Similar concentrations of atazanavir increased by 13% the action potential duration (APD90)
in rabbit Purkinje fibres study. Electrocardiographic changes (sinus bradycardia, prolongation of PR 
interval, prolongation of QT interval, and prolongation of QRS complex) were observed only in an 
initial 2 week oral toxicity study performed in dogs. Subsequent 9 month oral toxicity studies in dogs 
showed no drug-related electrocardiographic changes. The clinical relevance of these non-clinical data 
is unknown. Potential cardiac effects of this product in humans cannot be ruled out (see sections 4.4 
and 4.8). The potential for PR prolongation should be considered in cases of overdose (see section
4.9).
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus cycling with no 
effects on mating or fertility. No teratogenic effects were observed in rats or rabbits at maternally toxic 
doses. In pregnant rabbits, gross lesions of the stomach and intestines were observed in dead or 
moribund does at maternal doses 2 and 4 times the highest dose administered in the definitive embryo-
development study. In the pre- and postnatal development assessment in rats, atazanavir produced a 
transient reduction in body weight in the offspring at a maternally toxic dose. Systemic exposure to 
atazanavir at doses that resulted in maternal toxicity was at least equal to or slightly greater than that 
observed in humans given 400 mg once daily.
Atazanavir was negative in an Ames reverse-mutation assay but did induce chromosomal aberrations
in vitro in both the absence and presence of metabolic activation. In in vivo studies in rats, atazanavir
did not induce micronuclei in bone marrow, DNA damage in duodenum (comet assay), or unscheduled 
DNA repair in liver at plasma and tissue concentrations exceeding those that were clastogenic in vitro.
In long-term carcinogenicity studies of atazanavir in mice and rats, an increased incidence of benign 
hepatic adenomas was seen in female mice only. The increased incidence of benign hepatic adenomas 
in female mice was likely secondary to cytotoxic liver changes manifested by single-cell necrosis and 
is considered to have no relevance for humans at intended therapeutic exposures. There were no 
tumorigenic findings in male mice or in rats.
Atazanavir increased opacity of bovine corneas in an in vitro ocular irritation study, indicating it may 
be an ocular irritant upon direct contact with the eye.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
33
Capsule contents
lactose monohydrate
crospovidone (type A)
magnesium stearate
Capsule shell of Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Body:
titanium dioxide (E171)
gelatine
Cap:
titanium dioxide (E171)
yellow ferric oxide (E172)
red ferric oxide (E172)
gelatine
ink:
shellac
black ferric oxide (E172)
potassium hydroxide
Capsule shell of Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Body:
titanium dioxide (E171)
yellow ferric oxide (E172)
red ferric oxide (E172)
gelatine
Cap:
titanium dioxide (E171)
yellow ferric oxide (E172)
red ferric oxide (E172)
gelatine
ink:
shellac
black ferric oxide (E172)
potassium hydroxide
Capsule shell of Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
Body:
titanium dioxide (E171)
gelatine
Cap:
titanium dioxide (E171)
yellow ferric oxide (E172)
red ferric oxide (E172)
black ferric oxide (E172)
gelatine
ink:
shellac
titanium dioxide (E171)
potassium hydroxide
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
34
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg and 200 mg hard capsules
HDPE tablet container with child-resistant tamper evident PP with desiccant closure: 60 hard capsules, 
in a box.
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
HDPE tablet container with child-resistant tamper evident PP with desiccant closure: 30 hard capsules 
and 90 (3 x 30) hard capsules, in a box.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
150 mg hard capsules:
60 hard capsules: EU/1/19/1353/001
200 mg hard capsules:
60 hard capsules: EU/1/19/1353/002
300 mg hard capsules:
30 hard capsules: EU/1/19/1353/003
90 (3 x 30) hard capsules: EU/1/19/1353/004
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 March 2019
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
35
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
36
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
37
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto
Šmarješka cesta 6
8501 Novo mesto
Slovenia
TAD Pharma GmbH
Heinz-Lohmann-Straße 5
27472 Cuxhaven
Germany
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk Management Plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
38
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
39
A. LABELLING
40
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also lactose monohydrate.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Hard capsule
60 hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Capsules should be swallowed whole.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Date of opening:____________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
41
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/19/1353/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
42
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
CONTAINER LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also lactose monohydrate.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Hard capsule
60 hard capsules
- 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Capsules should be swallowed whole.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Date of opening:____________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
43
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/19/1353/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
44
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also lactose monohydrate.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Hard capsule
60 hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Capsules should be swallowed whole.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Date of opening:____________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
45
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/19/1353/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
46
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
CONTAINER LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also lactose monohydrate.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Hard capsule
60 hard capsules
- 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Capsules should be swallowed whole.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Date of opening:____________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
47
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/19/1353/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
48
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also lactose monohydrate.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Hard capsule
30 hard capsules
90 (3 x 30) hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Capsules should be swallowed whole.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Date of opening:____________
49
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/19/1353/003 30 hard capsules
EU/1/19/1353/004 90 (3 x 30) hard capsules
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
50
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
CONTAINER LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also lactose monohydrate.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Hard capsule
30 hard capsules
- 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Capsules should be swallowed whole.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Date of opening:____________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
51
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/19/1353/003 30 hard capsules
EU/1/19/1353/004 90 (3 x 30) hard capsules
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
52
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
53
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
atazanavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Atazanavir Krka is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Atazanavir Krka
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Atazanavir Krka
Possible side effects
How to store Atazanavir Krka
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Atazanavir Krka is and what it is used for
Atazanavir Krka is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a 
protein that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body and this in turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way Atazanavir Krka reduces the risk 
of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
Atazanavir Krka capsules may be used by adults and children 6 years of age and older. Your doctor 
has prescribed Atazanavir Krka for you because you are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is normally used in combination with other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with Atazanavir 
Krka is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take Atazanavir Krka
Do not take Atazanavir Krka
-
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe 
yourliver disease is before deciding whether you can take Atazanavir Krka
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and Atazanavir Krka
-
-
-
-
-
rifampicin (an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis)
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines 
may be available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes 
called heartburn); pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to 
correct heart rhythm); ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine 
(used to treat headaches); and alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland)
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder), 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia)
54
-
-
-
-
medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation)
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve
anxiety)
lomitapide, simvastatin and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol).
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed dose combination
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C 
infection)
Do not take sildenafil with Atazanavir Krka when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor 
if you are using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you.
Warnings and precautions
Atazanavir Krka is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other
illnesses linked to HIV infection.
Some people will need special care before or while taking Atazanavir Krka. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Atazanavir Krka and make sure your doctor knows:
-
-
-
-
if you have hepatitis B or C
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach)
if you have type A or B haemophilia
if you require haemodialysis
Atazanavir Krka may affect how well your kidneys work.
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking atazanavir. If you develop signs or symptoms of 
kidney stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your 
doctor immediately.
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs
and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is
started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response,
enabling the body to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you
notice any symptoms of infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the
opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system
attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines for the treatment of your 
HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after the start of treatment. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as muscle weakness, weakness beginning in 
hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, 
please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment.
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called 
osteonecrosis (death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of 
combination antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe 
immunosuppression, higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for 
developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the 
hip, knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients
receiving atazanavir. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of these 
symptoms please inform your doctor.
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking
55
atazanavir. If you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately.
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor.
Children receiving Atazanavir Krka may require their heart to be monitored. Your child's doctor will 
decide this.
Children
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The 
use of Atazanavir Krka in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been
studied due to the risk of serious complications.
Other medicines and Atazanavir Krka
You must not take Atazanavir Krka with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take
Atazanavir Krka, at the start of Section 2.
There are other medicines that may not mix with Atazanavir Krka. Tell your doctor if you are taking, 
have recently taken, or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these:
-
-
-
-
-
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g. indinavir, nevirapine and efavirenz)
Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C)
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction))
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with Atazanavir Krka to prevent pregnancy, 
be sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g. antacids to be 
taken 1 hour before taking Atazanavir Krka or 2 hours after taking Atazanavir Krka, H2-
blockers like famotidine and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole)
- medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil)
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol)
salmeterol (used to treat asthma)
cyclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body's immune
system)
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin)
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals)
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, and warfarin (anticoagulants, used to reduce the 
blood clots)
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, lamotrigine (antiepileptics)
irinotecan (used to treat cancer)
sedative agents (e.g. midazolam administered by injection)
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with Atazanavir Krka. It is 
important to tell your doctor if you are taking fluticasone or budesonide (given by nose or inhaled to 
treat allergic symptoms or asthma).
Atazanavir Krka with food and drink
It is important that you take Atazanavir Krka with food (a meal or a substantial snack) as this helps the
body absorb the medicine.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Atazanavir, the active substance of Atazanavir Krka, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not 
breast-feed while taking Atazanavir Krka.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk.
56
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines and contact your doctor immediately.
Atazanavir Krka contains lactose monohydrate
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars (e.g. lactose), contact 
your doctor before taking this medicinal product.
3.
How to take Atazanavir Krka
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment.
The recommended adult dose of Atazanavir Krka capsules is 300 mg once daily with 100 mg 
ritonavir once daily and with food, in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor may 
adjust the dose of Atazanavir Krka according to your anti-HIV therapy.
For children (6 to less than 18 years of age), your child's doctor will decide the right dose based 
on your child's weight. The dose of Atazanavir Krka capsules for children is calculated by body 
weight and is taken once daily with food and 100 mg ritonavir as shown below:
Body weight (kg)
15 to less than 35
At least 35
Atazanavir Krka Dose once 
daily (mg)
200
300
*Ritonavir capsules, tablets or oral solution may be used.
Ritonavir Dose* once daily (mg)
100
100
Other formulations of this medicine may be available for paediatric patients at least 3 months of age 
and weighing at least 5 kg (see relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for alternative forms).  
Switching to capsules from other formulations is encouraged as soon as patients are able to 
consistently swallow capsules.
Take Atazanavir Krka capsules with food (a meal or a substantial snack). Swallow the capsules 
whole.
Do not open the capsules.
If you take more Atazanavir Krka than you should
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if
you or your child take too much Atazanavir Krka.
If you accidentally take more Atazanavir Krka capsules than your doctor recommended, contact your 
HIV doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice.
If you forget to take Atazanavir Krka
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as possible with food and then take your next 
scheduled dose at its regular time. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the missed dose.
Wait and take the next dose at its regular time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten
dose.
If you stop taking Atazanavir Krka
Do not stop taking Atazanavir Krka before talking to your doctor.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor.
57
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When
treating HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by Atazanavir 
Krka, by the other medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you 
notice anything unusual about your health.
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects:
-
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually 
disappears within 2 weeks without any change to your atazanavir treatment. Severe rash may 
be developed in association with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking 
Atazanavir Krka and talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash 
with flu-like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in 
the face, inflammation of the eye which causes redness (conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red 
lumps (nodules).
- Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirrubin in 
your blood has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults 
and infants older than 3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If 
your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately.
-
- Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to 
your doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be 
symptoms of a serious heart problem.
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you start 
Atazanavir Krka and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C 
infection, you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white 
part of your eyes, pain around the stomach, pale colored stools or nausea.
- Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking atazanavir. Symptoms of
gallbladder problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea,
vomiting, fever or yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes.
- Atazanavir Krka may affect how well your kidneys work.
- Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking atazanavir. Talk to your doctor
immediately if you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back 
or low stomach-area, blood in your urine or pain when you urinate.
Other side effects reported for patients treated with atazanavir are the following:
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
-
-
-
headache
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia 
(indigestion)
fatigue (extreme tiredness)
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs)
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction)
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness)
-
-
-
- weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased
-
-
-
-
-
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure)
dyspnoea (shortness of breath)
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis, 
58
aphthous (mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), 
flatulence (wind), dry mouth, abdominal distension
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes)
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching)
-
-
- muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles)
-
interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria 
(excess protein in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination)
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men)
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever
insomnia (difficulty sleeping)
-
-
-
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people):
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking)
oedema (swelling)
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen)
-
-
-
- myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise)
-
kidney pain
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Atazanavir Krka
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the packaging after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Store below 30C.
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
Shelf life after first opening is 2 months, stored below 25°C.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Atazanavir Krka contains
-
The active substance is atazanavir.
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 150 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 300 mg atazanavir (as sulphate).
-
The other ingredients are:
Capsule contents: lactose monohydrate, crospovidone (type A) and magnesium stearate. See 
section 2 "Atazanavir Krka contains lactose monohydrate".
Capsule shell of Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules:
Body: titanium dioxide (E171) and gelatine
Cap: titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric oxide (E172), gelatine and 
59
ink (shellac, black ferric oxide (E172), potassium hydroxide)
Capsule shell of Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Body: titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric oxide (E172) and gelatine
Cap: titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric oxide (E172), gelatine and 
ink (shellac, black ferric oxide (E172), potassium hydroxide)
Capsule shell of Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
Body: titanium dioxide (E171) and gelatine
Cap: titanium dioxide (E171), yellow ferric oxide (E172), red ferric oxide (E172), black ferric 
oxide (E172), gelatine and ink (shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), potassium hydroxide)
What Atazanavir Krka looks like and contents of the pack
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg hard capsules
Hard gelatine capsule (capsule), size no. 1. The body of the capsule is white or almost white colour, 
the cap of the capsule is brownish-orange colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with black mark A150. 
The content of the capsule is yellowish-white to yellow-white powder.
Atazanavir Krka 200 mg hard capsules
Hard gelatine capsule (capsule), size no. 0. The body and the cap of the capsule are brownish-orange 
colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with black mark A200. The content of the capsule is yellowish-
white to yellow-white powder.
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules
Hard gelatine capsule (capsule), size no. 00. The body of the capsule is white or almost white colour, 
the cap of the capsule is dark brown colour. The capsule cap is imprinted with white mark A300. The 
content of the capsule is yellowish-white to yellow-white powder.
Atazanavir Krka 150 mg and 200 mg hard capsules are available in containers containing 60 hard 
capsules; in a box.
Atazanavir Krka 300 mg hard capsules are available in containers containing 30 hard capsules or 90 
(3 x 30) hard capsules; in a box.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
Manufacturers
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
TAD Pharma GmbH, Heinz-Lohmann-Straße 5, 27472 Cuxhaven, Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 487 50 73 62
България
КРКА България ЕООД
Teл.: + 359 (02) 962 34 50
Česká republika
KRKA ČR, s.r.o.
Tel: + 420 (0) 221 115 150
Lietuva
UAB KRKA Lietuva
Tel: + 370 5 236 27 40
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 487 50 73 62 (BE)
Magyarország
KRKA Magyarország Kereskedelmi Kft.
Tel.: + 36 (1) 355 8490
60
Danmark
KRKA Sverige AB
Tlf: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
Deutschland
TAD Pharma GmbH
Tel: + 49 (0) 4721 606-0
Eesti
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto Eesti filiaal
Tel: + 372 (0) 6 671 658
Ελλάδα
KRKA ΕΛΛΑΣ ΕΠΕ
Τηλ: + 30 2100101613
España
KRKA Farmacéutica, S.L.
Tel: + 34 911 61 03 80
France
KRKA France Eurl
Tél: + 33 (0)1 57 40 82 25
Hrvatska
KRKA - FARMA d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6312 100
Ireland
KRKA Pharma Dublin, Ltd.
Tel: + 353 1 413 3710
Ísland
LYFIS ehf.
Sími: + 354 534 3500
Italia
KRKA Farmaceutici Milano S.r.l.
Tel: + 39 02 3300 8841
Κύπρος
KI.PA. (PHARMACAL) LIMITED
Τηλ: + 357 24 651 882
Latvija
KRKA Latvija SIA
Tel: + 371 6 733 86 10
This leaflet was last revised in 
Malta
E. J. Busuttil Ltd.
Tel: + 356 21 445 885
Nederland
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tel: + 32 (0) 487 50 73 62 (BE)
Norge
KRKA Sverige AB
Tlf: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
Österreich
KRKA Pharma GmbH, Wien
Tel: + 43 (0)1 66 24 300
Polska
KRKA-POLSKA Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 573 7500
Portugal
KRKA Farmacêutica, Sociedade Unipessoal Lda.
Tel: + 351 (0)21 46 43 650
România
KRKA Romania S.R.L., Bucharest
Tel: + 4 021 310 66 05
Slovenija
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto
Tel: + 386 (0) 1 47 51 100
Slovenská republika
KRKA Slovensko, s.r.o.
Tel: + 421 (0) 2 571 04 501
Suomi/Finland
KRKA Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: + 358 20 754 5330
Sverige
KRKA Sverige AB
Tel: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
KRKA Pharma Dublin, Ltd.
Tel: + 353 01 413 3710
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
61
