EMA/594159/2019 
EMEA/H/C/000752 
Atriance (nelarabine)  
An overview of Atriance and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Atriance and what is it used for? 
Atriance is a cancer medicine used to treat patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL) 
or T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL). These are types of cancer where T-lymphoblasts (a type of 
immature white blood cell) multiply too quickly. In T-ALL the abnormal cells are mainly in the blood 
and bone marrow, and in T-LBL they are mainly in the lymphatic system (lymph nodes or thymus 
gland). Atriance is used when the cancer has not responded to, or has stopped responding to, at least 
two types of chemotherapy. 
Atriance contains the active substance nelarabine.  
How is Atriance used? 
Atriance can only be obtained with a prescription and is given by drip into a vein under the supervision 
of a doctor who has experience in the use of thes type of medicine.  
The dose and frequency of infusion depend on the patient’s age and body surface area (calculated 
using the patient's height and weight). In adults and adolescents aged 16 years and over, the 
recommended starting dose is 1,500 mg per square metre of body surface area, given over two hours 
on days one, three and five, repeated every 21 days. Patients aged under 16 years receive a dose of 
650 mg per square metre given over one hour on five consecutive days, repeated every 21 days. This 
schedule can also be used in patients aged 16 to 21 years. Treatment should be stopped if the patient 
develops serious side effects affecting the brain or nervous system. Treatment may be delayed if other 
side effects occur. 
Patients receiving Atriance should be monitored regularly for changes in blood cell counts and should 
receive adequate hydration if they are at risk of tumour lysis syndrome (a complication due to the 
breakdown of cancer cells).  
For more information about using Atriance, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Atriance work? 
The active substance in Atriance, nelarabine, is a cytotoxic, a medicine that kills cells that are dividing, 
such as cancer cells. It belongs to the group of cancer medicines called ‘antimetabolites’. 
Nelarabine is converted within cells into an analogue of guanine, one of the fundamental chemicals 
that make up DNA. In the body, this analogue takes the place of guanine and interferes with the 
enzymes involved in making new DNA, DNA polymerases. This stops the production of DNA and thus 
slows down the growth and multiplication of cells. Because the guanine analogue accumulates in T-
cells and lasts longer in these cells, Atriance slows down the growth and multiplication of the cells 
involved in T-ALL and T-LBL. 
What benefits of Atriance have been shown in studies? 
Atriance was shown to be effective in two main studies involving patients with T-ALL and T-LBL whose 
cancer had stopped responding to one or more previous cancer treatments. In both studies, the 
patients were treated with Atriance, but its effects were not compared with those of any other 
medicine. The first study involved 70 children and young adults below 21 years of age. Of those whose 
cancer had not responded to two or more previous treatments (39) five (13%) had a complete 
response to treatment after a month, with no evidence of disease and normal blood counts. In the 
second study, involving a total of 40 adults and adolescents above the age of 16. Of those whose 
cancer had not responded (28) five (18%) had a complete response to treatment. In both studies, 
compared to patients who had a complete response more patients had a partial response to Atriance 
treatment, with blood counts returning towards normal levels. 
What are the risks associated with Atriance? 
The most common side effects with Atriance in adults (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
infection, febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell counts with fever), neutropenia (low white blood cell 
counts), thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts), anaemia (low red blood cell counts), somnolence 
(sleepiness), peripheral neuropathy (damage to the nerves in the extremities), hypoaesthesia (a 
reduced sense of touch), paraesthesia (unusual sensations like pins and needles), dizziness, headache, 
dyspnoea (breathlessness), cough, diarrhoea, vomiting, constipation, nausea (feeling sick), myalgia 
(muscle pain), oedema (swelling), peripheral oedema (swelling in ankles and feet), pyrexia (fever), 
pain, tiredness and weakness. Most of these side effects were also very common in children.  
Severe side effects affecting the brain and nervous system have also been reported in patients taking 
Atriance, including somnolence, convulsions, and peripheral neuropathy causing numbness, unusual 
sensations, weakness and even paralysis. Patients should be monitored closely for these side effects 
and treatment stopped if necessary. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Atriance, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Atriance authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Atriance’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency noted that, due to the small number of patients with these 
diseases, the information to support the authorisation of Atriance is limited, but it agreed that the 
medicine could allow some patients to go on to receive bone-marrow transplantation, increasing their 
chances of survival. 
Atriance has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that because the diseases 
are rare, it has not been possible to obtain complete information about Atriance. Every year, the 
Agency will review any new information that may become available and this overview will be updated 
as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Atriance? 
Since Atriance has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Atriance will provide yearly updates from a study on the effectiveness and safety of Atriance in children 
and young adults. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Atriance? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Atriance have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Atriance are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Atriance are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Atriance 
Atriance received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 August 2007.  
Further information on Atriance can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/atriance  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
 
