Summary  of  the  risk  management  plan 
(nelarabine)
for Atriance 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Atriance. The  RMP  details 
important risks of Atriance, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about Atriance's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Atriance’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Atriance should be 
used.
This summary of the RMP for Atriance should be read in the context of all this information 
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and its  plain-language  summary,  all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Atriance’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Atriance is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory T-cell acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL).
Atriance contains nelarabine as the active substance and is administered intravenously.
Further information about the evaluation of Atriance’s benefits can be found in Atriance’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/atriance-epar-product-
information_en.pdf.
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize 
or further characterize the risks
Important  risks  of  Atriance  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Atriance’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;



Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report assessment 
so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Atriance is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Atriance are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Atriance. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified 
risks
Important potential 
risks
Neurotoxicity1
Risk in pregnancy (embryofetal toxicity)
None
Missing information
1Neurotoxicity: EU PASS Study PGA111081 revealed that the incidence and severity of neurological 
changes  in  subjects  was  consistent  with  previously  reported  clinical  experience  and  current 
prescribing information. In addition, factors previously identified as potentially increasing the risk 
of subsequent neurological toxicity with nelarabine did not appear to predict toxicity in this small 
study.
In  Study NLR506AUS02T,  overall,  the  neurotoxicity  of  the  augmented  Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster
regimen does not appear to have been significantly increased by the addition of nelarabine. The 
incidence  and  severity  of  neurotoxicity  events  observed  in  Study NLR506AUS02T  is  in  line  with 
previous experience with nelarabine in patients with refractory/resistant T-ALL.
II B: Summary of important risks
Important identified risks
Table 2
Important identified risk – neurotoxicity
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Neurotoxicity was the primary dose limiting toxicity identified 
early  in  the  development  program  during  animal  toxicity 
studies  and  clinical  trials  and  is  thus  a  recognized  adverse 
effect of nelarabine therapy.
Nelarabine  caused  histopathological  changes  to  the  central 
nervous system (white matter) vacuolation and degenerative 
changes in cerebrum, cerebellum and spinal cord of monkeys 
after  treatment  with  nelarabine  daily  during  23 days,  at 
exposures below the human therapeutic exposure.
Neurotoxicity has been noted in pivotal trials, which includes 
peripheral  neurological  disorders  (sensory  and  motor)  12-
21%,  hypoesthesia  6-17%,somnolence  7-23%,  seizures  1-
6%, amnesia 0-3%, paresthesia 4-15%, ataxia 2-9%, balance 
disorder 0-2%, tremor 4-5%, dizziness 0-21%, headache 15-
17%, dysgeusia 0-3%. There have also been reports of events 
associated  with  demyelination  and  ascending  peripheral 
neuropathies similar in appearance to GBS.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
As found during clinical trials, there was an apparent increased 
risk  of  neurological  adverse  events  in  patients  previously 
treated  with  intrathecal  chemotherapy  or  with  craniospinal 
irradiation No other specific risk groups were identified during 
clinical trials.
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.4  Special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use 
and Section 4.8 Undesirable effects.
Additional risk minimization measures
Black box warning.
Close  monitoring  for  neurological  reactions  is  strongly 
recommended,  and  nelarabine  must  be  discontinued  at  the 
first sign of neurological reactions of National Cancer Institute 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE)
grade 2 or greater.
Important potential risk
Table 3
Important potential risk – risk in pregnancy (embryofetal 
toxicity)
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Compared to controls, nelarabine caused increased incidences 
of  fetal  malformations,  anomalies,  and  variations  in  rabbits 
when given at doses approximately 24% of the adult human 
dose on a mg/m2 basis during the period of organogenesis.
Embryos and/or fetus are at risk when exposed to nelarabine.
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation.
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Missing information
There is no missing information.
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
None.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Atriance.
