22 October 2015 
EMA/768463/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name:TERIFLUNOMIDE 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010135/201503 
 Period covered by the PSUR: 13 September 2014 to 12 March 2015  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for TERIFLUNOMIDE, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Severe skin reactions 
There  have  been  two  (2)  cases  of  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome  and  two  (2)  cases  reported  with  skin 
exfoliation reported during the period under review, and seven (7) cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
and 27 cases reporting skin exfoliation cumulatively. Upon review of post-marketing cases with severe 
skin disorders (potentially Stevens-Johnson syndrome), it was observed that teriflunomide could not be 
excluded  from  potential  causality  in  cases  where  time  to onset,  de-challenge/re-challenge information, 
and discontinuation from teriflunomide were available. 
Pancreatitis 
There have been eight (8) cases of pancreatitis reported during the period under review, and 18 cases 
cumulatively.  Upon  review  of  post-marketing  cases  with  pancreatitis,  as  well  as  the  review  of  clinical 
trial  data,  statistical  signals,  and  epidemiology,  the  PRAC  considered  that  teriflunomide  could  not  be 
excluded  from  potential  causality  in  cases  where  time  to onset,  de-challenge/  rechallenge  information, 
and discontinuation from teriflunomide were available. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Post-marketing  cases  with  hypersensitivity  reactions  (immediate  or  delayed)  some  of  which  were 
severe,  such  as  anaphylaxis  and  angioedema,  were  reported.  The  PRAC  observed  that  teriflunomide 
could  not  be  excluded  from  potential  causal  association  in  cases  where  time  to  onset,  de-
challenge/rechallenge  information  and  discontinuation  were  available.  Two  (2)  patients  underwent 
reportedly the rapid elimination procedure; however, the outcome was unknown for both patients.  
Headache 
There  have  been  cumulatively  2179  Adverse  Drug  Reactions  (ADR)  reports  from  post-marketing 
sources.  Upon  review  of post-marketing  cases  for  headache,  as  well  as the  review  of  clinical  trial data 
(placebo-controlled  studies),  the  PRAC  considered  that  there  is  a  trend  towards  a  causal  association 
with teriflunomide for headache. 
Blood creatine phosphokinase (CPK) increased 
The  reported  cases  together  with  the  higher  number  of  CPK  increase  cases  or  associated  events  in 
pooled  clinical  trials  (7  mg  /14  mg)  show  a  clear  trend  towards  a  causal  association.  CPK  increase  is 
labelled  as  a  common  ADR  in  section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  of  leflunomide  (Arava).  Upon  review  of  post-
marketing cases for CPK increase, as well as the review of clinical trial data (placebo-controlled studies), 
the PRAC considered that there is a trend towards a causal association with teriflunomide. 
Arthralgia 
Clinical trial data shows a trend towards more events in the pooled teriflunomide group (7mg /14 mg) 
compared to placebo group. The reported cases together with the higher number of arthralgia cases or 
associated  events  in  clinical  trials  show  a  clear  trend  towards  a  causal  association.  Upon  review  of 
clinical  trial  data,  the  PRAC  considered  that  there  is  a  trend  towards  a  causal  association  with 
teriflunomide. 
Palpitations 
 
 
 
In  placebo-controlled  studies  palpitations  were  reported  >1%  more  often  in  the  teriflunomide  7  mg 
group  (but  not  in  the  teriflunomide  14  mg  group)  when  compared  to  placebo.  Upon  review  of  clinical 
trial data, the PRAC considered that there is a trend towards a causal association with teriflunomide. 
Sepsis 
Cumulatively, there have been a total of 24 case reports (all were assessed as serious) referring to 22 
events of sepsis (one wound sepsis and one urosepsis), of which five were with fatal outcome and one 
life-threatening  sepsis.  The  5  patients  who  died  due  to  sepsis  (4  due  to  urinary  tract  infection  and  1 
secondary  to decubitus  ulcers),  all  had  advanced  Multiple  Sclerosis disease  and  multiple  drug therapy. 
The PRAC is of the opinion that there is enough evidence leading to the conclusion that severe infections 
during teriflunomide treatment can result to sepsis. 
Peripheral neuropathy 
In  placebo-controlled  studies,  in  total  there  have  been  17  cases  of  peripheral  neuropathy  that  were 
confirmed by nerve conduction studies, out of 898 patients treated. Of these 17 patients, there were 5 
patients who discontinued treatment. 
Therefore,  in  view  of  available  data  regarding  teriflunomide,  the  PRAC  considered  that  changes  to  the 
product information were warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for TERIFLUNOMIDE the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing TERIFLUNOMIDE is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
 
 
 
