ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
AVAMYS 27.5 micrograms/spray, nasal spray suspension 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each spray actuation delivers 27.5 micrograms of fluticasone furoate.  
Excipient with known effect  
One actuation delivers 8.25 micrograms of benzalkonium chloride.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Nasal spray, suspension.  
White suspension.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Avamys is indicated in adults, adolescents and children (6 years and over)  
Avamys is indicated for the treatment of the symptoms of allergic rhinitis. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Posology 
Adults and adolescents (12 years and over)  
The recommended starting dose is two spray actuations (27.5 micrograms of fluticasone furoate per spray 
actuation) in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 110 micrograms). 
Once adequate control of symptoms is achieved, dose reduction to one spray actuation in each nostril 
(total daily dose 55 micrograms) may be effective for maintenance. 
The dose should be titrated to the lowest dose at which effective control of symptoms is maintained. 
Children (6 to 11 years of age)  
The recommended starting dose is one spray actuation (27.5 micrograms of fluticasone furoate per spray 
actuation) in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 55 micrograms). 
Patients not adequately responding to one spray actuation in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 
55 micrograms) may use two spray actuations in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 
110 micrograms). 
Once adequate control of symptoms is achieved, dose reduction to one spray actuation in each nostril once 
daily (total daily dose, 55 micrograms) is recommended. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For full therapeutic benefit regular, scheduled usage is recommended. Onset of action has been observed 
as early as 8 hours after initial administration. However, it may take several days of treatment to achieve 
maximum benefit, and the patient should be informed that their symptoms will improve with continuous 
regular use (see section 5.1). The duration of treatment should be restricted to the period that corresponds 
to allergenic exposure. 
Children under 6 years of age 
The safety and efficacy of Avamys in children under the age of 6 years has not been established. Currently 
available data are described in section 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Elderly Patients  
No dose adjustment is required in this population (see section 5.2).  
Renal Impairment  
No dose adjustment is required in this population (see section 5.2).  
Hepatic Impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Method of administration  
Avamys nasal spray is for administration by the intranasal route only.  
The intranasal device should be shaken before use. The device is primed by pressing the mist release 
button for at least six spray actuations (until a fine mist is seen), whilst holding the device upright. Re-
priming (approximately 6 sprays until a fine mist is seen) is only necessary if the cap is left off for 5 days 
or the intranasal device has not been used for 30 days or more. 
The device should be cleaned after each use and the cap replaced. 
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Systemic corticosteroid effects 
Systemic effects of nasal corticosteroid may occur, particularly at high doses prescribed for prolonged 
periods. These effects are much less likely to occur than with oral corticosteroids and may vary in 
individual patients and between different corticosteroid preparations. Potential systemic effects may 
include Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, adrenal suppression, growth retardation in children and 
adolescents, cataract, glaucoma and more rarely, a range of psychological or behavioural effects including 
psychomotor hyperactivity, sleep disorders, anxiety, depression or aggression (particularly in children). 
Treatment with higher than recommended doses of nasal corticosteroids may result in clinically significant 
adrenal suppression. If there is evidence for higher than recommended doses being used, then additional 
systemic corticosteroid cover should be considered during periods of stress or elective surgery. 
Fluticasone furoate 110 micrograms once daily was not associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal 
(HPA) axis suppression in adult, adolescent or paediatric subjects. However the dose of intranasal 
fluticasone furoate should be reduced to the lowest dose at which effective control of the symptoms of 
rhinitis is maintained. As with all intranasal corticosteroids, the total systemic burden of corticosteroids 
should be considered whenever other forms of corticosteroid treatment are prescribed concurrently. 
If there is any reason to believe that adrenal function is impaired, care must be taken when transferring 
patients from systemic steroid treatment to fluticasone furoate. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visual disturbance 
Visual disturbance may be reported with systemic and topical corticosteroid use. If a patient presents with 
symptoms such as blurred vision or other visual disturbances, the patient should be considered for referral 
to an ophthalmologist for evaluation of possible causes which may include cataract, glaucoma or rare 
diseases such as central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) which have been reported after use of systemic 
and topical corticosteroids. 
Growth retardation 
Growth retardation has been reported in children receiving nasal corticosteroids at licensed doses. A 
reduction in growth velocity has been observed in children treated with fluticasone furoate 
110 micrograms daily for one year (see section 4.8 and section 5.1). Therefore, children should be 
maintained on the lowest possible efficacious dose which delivers adequate symptom control (see section 
4.2). It is recommended that the growth of children receiving prolonged treatment with nasal 
corticosteroids is regularly monitored. If growth is slowed, therapy should be reviewed with the aim of 
reducing the dose of nasal corticosteroid if possible, to the lowest dose at which effective control of 
symptoms is maintained. In addition, consideration should be given to referring the patient to a paediatric 
specialist (see section 5.1). 
Patients on ritonavir 
Concomitant administration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of increased systemic 
exposure of fluticasone furoate (see section 4.5). 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains benzalkonium chloride. Long-term use may cause oedema of the nasal 
mucosa. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Interaction with CYP3A inhibitors 
Fluticasone furoate is rapidly cleared by extensive first pass metabolism mediated by the cytochrome 
P450 3A4. 
Based on data with another glucocorticoid (fluticasone propionate), that is metabolised by CYP3A4, 
coadministration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of increased systemic exposure of 
fluticasone furoate. 
Caution is recommended when co-administering fluticasone furoate with potent CYP3A inhibitors 
including cobicistat-containing products as an increase in the risk of systemic side effects is expected. Co-
administration should be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the increased risk of systemic corticosteroid 
side effects, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a drug 
interaction study of intranasal fluticasone furoate with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole there 
were more subjects with measurable fluticasone furoate concentrations in the ketoconazole group (6 of the 
20 subjects) compared to placebo (1 out of 20 subjects). This small increase in exposure did not result in a 
statistically significant difference in 24 hour serum cortisol levels between the two groups. 
4 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The enzyme induction and inhibition data suggest that there is no theoretical basis for anticipating 
metabolic interactions between fluticasone furoate and the cytochrome P450 mediated metabolism of 
other compounds at clinically relevant intranasal doses. Therefore, no clinical studies have been conducted 
to investigate interactions of fluticasone furoate on other drugs. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of fluticasone furoate in pregnant women. In animal studies 
glucocorticoids have been shown to induce malformations including cleft palate and intra-uterine growth 
retardation. This is not likely to be relevant for humans given recommended nasal doses which results in 
minimal systemic exposure (see section 5.2). Fluticasone furoate should be used in pregnancy only if the 
benefits to the mother outweigh the potential risks to the foetus or child. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether nasal administered fluticasone furoate is excreted in human breast milk. 
Administration of fluticasone furoate to women who are breast-feeding should only be considered if the 
expected benefit to the mother is greater than any possible risk to the child. 
Fertility 
There are no fertility data in humans. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Avamys has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions during treatment with fluticasone furoate are epistaxis, 
nasal ulceration and headache.  The most serious undesirable effects are rare reports of hypersensitivity 
reactions, including anaphylaxis (less than 1 case per 1000 patients). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
There were over 2700 patients treated with fluticasone furoate in safety and efficacy studies for seasonal 
and perennial allergic rhinitis. Paediatric exposure to fluticasone furoate in safety and efficacy studies in 
seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis included 243 patients 12 to <18 years, 790 patients 6 to <12 years 
and 241 patients 2 to <6 years. 
Data from large clinical trials were used to determine the frequency of adverse reactions. 
The following convention has been used for the classification of frequencies: Very common ≥1/10; 
Common ≥1/100 to <1/10; Uncommon ≥1/1000 to <1/100; Rare ≥1/10,000 to <1/1000; Very rare 
<1/10,000; Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Immune system disorders 
Rare 
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and 
urticaria. 
Nervous system disorders 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Eye disorders 
Not known 
Headache. 
Transient ocular changes (see Clinical experience), vision blurred (see also 
section 4.4) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
*Epistaxis 
Nasal ulceration, dyspnoea** 
Rhinalgia, nasal discomfort (including nasal burning, nasal irritation, and 
nasal soreness), nasal dryness. 
Nasal septum perforation 
Very rare 
Not known 
Bronchospasm 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (Children) 
Not known 
***Growth retardation (see Clinical experience). 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Epistaxis 
*Epistaxis was generally mild to moderate in intensity. In adults and adolescents, the incidence of 
epistaxis was higher in longer-term use (more than 6 weeks) than in short-term use (up to 6 weeks). 
Systemic effects 
Systemic effects of nasal corticosteroids may occur, particularly when prescribed at high doses for 
prolonged periods (see section 4.4). Growth retardation has been reported in children receiving nasal 
corticosteroids. 
**Dyspnoea cases were reported in more than 1% of patients during clinical trials with fluticasone 
furoate; similar rates were also observed in placebo groups. 
Paediatric population 
The safety in children under 6 years has not been well established.  Frequency, type and severity of 
adverse reactions observed in the paediatric population are similar to those in the adult population.   
Epistaxis 
*In paediatric clinical studies of up to 12 weeks duration the incidence of epistaxis was similar between 
patients receiving fluticasone furoate and patients receiving placebo.   
Growth retardation 
***In a one-year clinical study assessing growth in pre-pubescent children receiving 110 micrograms of 
fluticasone furoate once daily, an average treatment difference of -0.27 cm per year in growth velocity 
was observed compared to placebo (see Clinical efficacy and safety). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
In a bioavailability study, intranasal doses of up to 2640 micrograms per day were administered over three 
days with no adverse systemic reactions observed (see section 5.2). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acute overdose is unlikely to require any therapy other than observation. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Nasal preparations, corticosteroids. ATC code: R01AD12  
Mechanism of action 
Fluticasone furoate is a synthetic trifluorinated corticosteroid that possesses a very high affinity for the 
glucocorticoid receptor and has a potent anti-inflammatory action. 
Clinical efficacy and safety  
Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis in adults and adolescents  
Compared with placebo, fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily significantly improved 
nasal symptoms (comprising rhinorrhoea, nasal congestion, sneezing and nasal itching) and ocular 
symptoms (comprising itching/burning, tearing/watering and redness of the eyes) in all 4 studies. Efficacy 
was maintained over the full 24-hours dosing period with once daily administration. 
Onset of therapeutic benefit was observed as early as 8 hours after initial administration, with further 
improvement observed for several days afterwards. 
Fluticasone furoate nasal spray significantly improved the patients’ perception of overall response to 
therapy, and the patients’ disease-related quality of life (Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality of Life Questionnaire 
– RQLQ), in all 4 studies. 
Perennial Allergic Rhinitis in adults and adolescents  
Fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily significantly improved nasal symptoms as well 
as patients’ perception of overall response to therapy compared to placebo in three studies. 
Fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily significantly improved ocular symptoms as 
well as improving patients’ disease-related quality of life (RQLQ) compared to placebo in one study. 
Efficacy was maintained over the full 24-hour dosing period with once daily administration. 
In a two-year study designed to assess the ocular safety of fluticasone furoate (110 micrograms once daily 
intranasal spray), adults and adolescents with perennial allergic rhinitis received either fluticasone furoate 
(n=367) or placebo (n=181). The primary outcomes [time to increase in posterior subcapsular opacity 
(0.3 from baseline in Lens Opacities Classification System, Version III (LOCS III grade)) and time to 
increase in intraocular pressure (IOP; 7 mmHg from baseline)] were not statistically significant between 
the two groups. Increases in posterior subcapsular opacity (0.3 from baseline) were more frequent in 
subjects treated with fluticasone furoate 110 micrograms [14 (4%)] versus placebo [4 (2%)] and were 
transient in nature for ten subjects in the fluticasone furoate group and two subjects in the placebo group. 
Increases in IOP (7 mmHg from baseline) were more frequent in subjects treated with fluticasone furoate 
110 micrograms: 7 (2%) for fluticasone furoate 110 micrograms once daily and 1 (<1%) for placebo. 
These events were transient in nature for six subjects in the fluticasone furoate group and one placebo 
subject. At weeks 52 and 104, 95% of subjects in both treatment groups had posterior subcapsular opacity 
values within ± 0.1 of baseline values for each eye and, at week 104, ≤1% of subjects in both treatment 
groups had 0.3 increase from baseline in posterior subcapsular opacity.  At weeks 52 and 104, the 
majority of subjects (>95%) had IOP values of within ± 5 mmHg of the baseline value.  Increases in 
posterior subcapsular opacity or IOP were not accompanied by any adverse events of cataracts or 
glaucoma. 
Paediatric population  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis in children  
The paediatric posology is based on assessment of the efficacy data across the allergic rhinitis population 
in children. 
In seasonal allergic rhinitis, fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily was effective but 
no significant differences were observed between fluticasone furoate nasal spray 55 micrograms once 
daily and placebo on any endpoint. 
In perennial allergic rhinitis, fluticasone furoate nasal spray 55 micrograms once daily exhibited a more 
consistent efficacy profile than fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily over 4 weeks’ 
treatment. Post-hoc analysis over 6 and 12 weeks in the same study, as well as 6-week HPA axis safety 
study, supported the efficacy of fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily. 
A 6-week study that assessed the effect of fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms once daily on 
adrenal function in children aged 2 to 11 years showed that there was no significant effect on 24-hour 
serum cortisol profiles, compared with placebo. 
A randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, multicenter, one-year placebo-controlled clinical growth 
study evaluated the effect of fluticasone furoate nasal spray 110 micrograms daily on growth velocity in 
474 prepubescent children (5 to 7.5 years of age for girls and 5 to 8.5 years of age for boys) with 
stadiometry. Mean growth velocity over the 52-week treatment period was lower in the patients receiving 
fluticasone furoate (5.19 cm/year) compared to placebo (5.46 cm/year). The mean treatment difference 
was -0.27 cm per year [95% CI -0.48 to -0.06]. 
Seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis in children (under 6 years)  
Safety and efficacy studies were performed in a total of 271 patients from 2 to 5 years of age in both 
seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis, of whom 176 were exposed to fluticasone furoate. 
Safety and efficacy in this group has not been well established. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption 
Fluticasone furoate undergoes incomplete absorption and extensive first-pass metabolism in the liver and 
gut resulting in negligible systemic exposure. The intranasal dosing of 110 micrograms once daily does 
not typically result in measurable plasma concentrations (<10 pg/mL). The absolute bioavailability for 
intranasal fluticasone furoate is 0.50 %, such that less than 1 microgram of fluticasone furoate would be 
systemically available after administration of 110 micrograms (see section 4.9). 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of fluticasone furoate is greater than 99 %. Fluticasone furoate is widely 
distributed with volume of distribution at steady-state of, on average, 608 L. 
Biotransformation 
Fluticasone furoate is rapidly cleared (total plasma clearance of 58.7 L/h) from systemic circulation 
principally by hepatic metabolism to an inactive 17β-carboxylic metabolite (GW694301X), by the 
cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP3A4. The principal route of metabolism was hydrolysis of the S-
fluoromethyl carbothioate function to form the 17β-carboxylic acid metabolite. In vivo studies have 
revealed no evidence of cleavage of the furoate moiety to form fluticasone. 
Elimination 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination was primarily via the faecal route following oral and intravenous administration indicative of 
excretion of fluticasone furoate and its metabolites via the bile. Following intravenous administration, the 
elimination phase half-life averaged 15.1 hours. Urinary excretion accounted for approximately 1 % and 2 
% of the orally and intravenously administered dose, respectively. 
Paediatric population  
In the majority of patients fluticasone furoate is not quantifiable (< 10 pg/mL) following intranasal dosing 
of 110 micrograms once daily. Quantifiable levels were observed in 15.1 % of paediatric patients 
following intranasal dosing of 110 micrograms once daily and only 6.8 % of paediatric patients following 
55 micrograms once daily. There was no evidence for higher quantifiable levels of fluticasone furoate in 
younger children (less than 6 years of age). Median fluticasone furoate concentrations in those subjects 
with quantifiable levels at 55 micrograms were 18.4 pg/mL and 18.9 pg/mL for 2-5 yrs and 6-11 yrs, 
respectively. 
At 110 micrograms, median concentrations in those subjects with quantifiable levels were 14.3 pg/mL and 
14.4 pg/mL for 2-5 yrs and 6-11 yrs, respectively. The values are similar to those seen in adults (12+) 
where median concentrations in those subjects with quantifiable levels were 15.4 pg/mL and 21.8 pg/mL 
at 55 micrograms and 110 micrograms, respectively. 
Elderly  
Only a small number of elderly patients (≥ 65 years, n=23/872; 2.6 %) provided pharmacokinetic data. 
There was no evidence for a higher incidence of patients with quantifiable fluticasone furoate 
concentrations in the elderly, when compared with the younger patients. 
Renal impairment  
Fluticasone furoate is not detectable in urine from healthy volunteers after intranasal dosing. Less than 1 
% of dose-related material is excreted in urine and therefore renal impairment would not be expected to 
affect the pharmacokinetics of fluticasone furoate. 
Hepatic impairment  
There are no data with intranasal fluticasone furoate in patients with hepatic impairment. Data are 
available following inhaled administration of fluticasone furoate (as fluticasone furoate or fluticasone 
furoate/vilanterol) to subjects with hepatic impairment that are also applicable for intranasal dosing.  A 
study of a single 400 microgram dose of orally inhaled fluticasone furoate in patients with moderate 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) resulted in increased Cmax (42 %) and AUC(0-∞) (172 %) and a 
modest (on average 23 %) decrease in cortisol levels in patients compared to healthy subjects. Following 
repeat dosing of orally inhaled fluticasone furoate/vilanterol for 7 days, there was an increase in 
fluticasone furoate systemic exposure (on average two-fold as measured by AUC(0–24)) in subjects with 
moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) compared with healthy subjects. The increase 
in fluticasone furoate systemic exposure in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (fluticasone 
furoate/vilanterol 200/25 micrograms) was associated with an average 34% reduction in serum cortisol 
compared with healthy subjects. There was no effect on serum cortisol in subjects with severe hepatic 
impairment (fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 100/12.5 micrograms). Based on these findings the average 
predicted exposure of 110 micrograms of intranasal fluticasone furoate in this patient population would 
not be expected to result in suppression of cortisol.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Findings in general toxicology studies were similar to those observed with other glucocorticoids and are 
associated with exaggerated pharmacological activity. These findings are not likely to be relevant for 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
humans given recommended nasal doses which results in minimal systemic exposure. No genotoxic 
effects of fluticasone furoate have been observed in conventional genotoxicity tests. Further, there were no 
treatment-related increases in the incidence of tumours in two year inhalation studies in rats and mice. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Glucose anhydrous  
Dispersible cellulose 
Polysorbate 80 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Disodium edetate 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years 
In-use shelf life: 2 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Do not refrigerate or freeze.  
Store upright.  
Always keep the cap on.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
14.2 mL Type I or Type III amber bottle (glass) fitted with a metering spray pump. 
The medicinal product is available in three pack sizes: 1 bottle of 30, 60 or 120 sprays.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
No special requirements for disposal.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24, Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/07/434/001  
EU/1/07/434/002  
EU/1/07/434/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 January 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 17 December 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency: http://www.ema.europa.eu 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II  
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
C. OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
D. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
Glaxo Wellcome S.A. 
Avenida de Extremadura 3 
09400 Aranda de Duero 
Burgos 
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.  
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Avamys 27.5 micrograms/spray nasal spray suspension  
fluticasone furoate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each spray delivers 27.5 micrograms of fluticasone furoate  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains: Glucose anhydrous, dispersible cellulose, polysorbate 80, benzalkonium chloride, disodium 
edetate, purified water. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Nasal spray, suspension  
1 bottle - 30 sprays 
1 bottle - 60 sprays 
1 bottle - 120 sprays 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Shake well before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Nasal use. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF  
6. 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP In-use shelf life: 2 months  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Do not refrigerate or freeze  
Store upright.  
Always keep the cap on.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR  
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/07/434/001  
EU/1/07/434/002  
EU/1/07/434/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
LOT  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
avamys  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
18 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
INTRANASAL SPRAY/DEVICE LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Avamys 27.5 micrograms/spray nasal spray suspension  
fluticasone furoate 
Nasal use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
LOT  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
30 sprays 
60 sprays 
120 sprays 
6. 
OTHER  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Avamys 27.5 micrograms per spray nasal spray suspension  
fluticasone furoate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.  
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Never pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness seem the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Avamys is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Avamys 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Avamys 
Possible side effects 
How to store Avamys 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Step-by-step guide to using the nasal spray  
1.  What Avamys is and what it is used for  
Avamys (fluticasone furoate) belongs to a group of medicines called glucocorticoids. Avamys works to 
decrease inflammation caused by allergy (rhinitis) and therefore reduce symptoms of allergy. 
Avamys nasal spray is used to treat symptoms of allergic rhinitis including stuffy, runny or itchy nose, 
sneezing and watery, itchy or red eyes, in adults and children aged 6 years and over. 
Allergy symptoms can occur at specific times of the year and be caused by allergy to pollen from grass or 
trees (hayfever), or they can occur all year round and be caused by allergy to animals, house-dust mites or 
moulds to name some of the most common. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Avamys  
Do not use Avamys  
• 
If you are allergic to fluticasone furoate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Children and adolescents  
Do not use in children under 6 years old. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking Avamys: 
• 
may when taken for a long time cause children to grow more slowly. The doctor will check your 
child’s height regularly, and make sure he or she is taking the lowest possible effective dose. 
• 
may cause eye conditions such as glaucoma (increase in pressure in the eye) or cataracts (clouding 
of the lens of the eye).  Tell your doctor if you had these conditions in the past, or if you notice 
blurred vision or other visual disturbances while you are taking Avamys.  
Other medicines and Avamys  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, or have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
It is especially important to tell your doctor if you are taking, or have recently taken any of the following 
medicines: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
steroid tablets or injected steroids 
steroid creams 
medicines for asthma 
ritonavir or cobicistat, used to treat HIV 
ketoconazole, used to treat fungal infections  
Your doctor will assess whether you should take Avamys with these medicines. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor you carefully if you are taking any of these medicines as they may increase the side effects of 
Avamys.  
Avamys should not be used at the same time with other nasal sprays containing steroids. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
Do not use Avamys if you are pregnant, or planning to become pregnant, unless your doctor or 
pharmacist tells you to. 
Do not use Avamys if you are breast feeding unless your doctor or pharmacist tells you to.  
Driving and using machines  
Avamys is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines.  
Avamys contains benzalkonium chloride  
This medicine contains 8.25 micrograms of benzalkonium chloride per spray (27.5 micrograms).  
Benzalkonium chloride may cause irritation or swelling inside of the nose, especially if used for a long 
time. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you feel discomfort when using the spray. 
3. 
How to use Avamys  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Don’t exceed the 
recommended dose. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you’re not sure. 
When to use Avamys  
• 
• 
This will treat your symptoms throughout the day and night. 
Use once a day 
Use at the same time each day. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How long Avamys takes to work  
Some people will not feel the full effects until several days after first using Avamys. 
However, it is usually effective within 8 to 24 hours of use. 
How much to use  
Adults and children 12 years and over  
• 
• 
The usual starting dose is 2 sprays in each nostril once every day. 
Once symptoms are controlled you may be able to decrease your dose to 1 spray in each nostril, 
once every day. 
Children 6 to 11 years  
• 
• 
The usual starting dose is 1 spray in each nostril once a day.  
If symptoms are very bad your doctor may increase the dose to 2 sprays in each nostril once every 
day until the symptoms are under control. It may then be possible for the dose to be reduced to 1 
spray in each nostril once every day. 
How to use the nasal spray  
Avamys has virtually no taste or smell. It is sprayed into the nose as a fine mist. Be careful not to get any 
spray into your eyes. If you do, rinse your eyes with water. 
There is a step-by-step guide to using the nasal spray after Section 6 of this leaflet. Follow the guide 
carefully to get full benefit from using Avamys 
  See Step-by-step guide to using the nasal spray, after Section 6. 
If you use more Avamys than you should  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist.  
If you forget to use Avamys  
If you miss a dose, take it when you remember.  
If it is nearly the time for your next dose, wait until then. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, or if you have any discomfort using the 
nasal spray ask your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Allergic reactions: get a doctor’s help straight away  
Allergic reactions to Avamys are rare and affect less than 1 person in 1,000. In a small number of people, 
allergic reactions can develop into a more serious, even life-threatening problem if not treated. Symptoms 
include: 
- becoming very wheezy, coughing or having difficulty with breathing 
- suddenly feeling weak or light-headed (which may lead to collapse or loss of consciousness) 
- swelling around the face 
- skin rashes or redness. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In many cases, these symptoms will be signs of less serious side effects. But you must be aware that 
they are potentially serious — so, if you notice any of these symptoms: 
Contact a doctor as soon as possible. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Nosebleeds (generally minor), particularly if you use Avamys for more than 6 weeks continuously. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Nasal ulceration – which may cause irritation or discomfort in your nose. You may also get streaks 
of blood when you blow your nose. 
Headache. 
Shortness of breath 
• 
• 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
Pain, burning, irritation, soreness or dryness in the inside of the nose. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
•  Small holes (perforations) in the ridge inside the nose that separates the nostrils. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)  
•  Slowing of growth in children. 
•  Blurred vision or temporary changes to vision with long term use. 
•  Chest tightness causing difficulty in breathing. 
Nasal corticosteroids can affect the normal production of hormones in your body, particularly if you use 
high doses for a long time. In children this side effect can cause them to grow more slowly than others.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Avamys  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
It is best to store your Avamys nasal spray upright. Always keep the cap on.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of the month. Avamys nasal spray should be used within 2 months after first opening. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Avamys contains  
- 
The active substance is fluticasone furoate. Each spray delivers 27.5 micrograms of fluticasone 
furoate. 
The other ingredients are glucose anhydrous, dispersible cellulose, polysorbate 80, benzalkonium 
chloride, disodium edetate, purified water (see section 2). 
- 
What Avamys looks like and contents of the pack  
The medicine is a white nasal spray suspension contained in an amber glass bottle, fitted with a pump. The 
bottle is in an off-white plastic casing with a light blue cap and side-actuated lever. The casing has a 
window for viewing the bottle contents. Avamys is available in pack sizes 30, 60 and 120 sprays. Not all 
pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Marketing authorisation: 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24, Ireland 
Manufacturer:  
Glaxo Wellcome S.A. 
Avenida de Extremadura 3 
09400 Aranda de Duero 
Burgos 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)10 85 52 00 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)10 85 52 00 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081100 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 36044 8701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com 
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél.: + 33 (0)1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 385 800787089 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Ísland 
Vistor hf.  
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741 111 
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com 
România 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 40 800672524 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 386 80688869 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Finland.tuoteinfo@gsk.com 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 370 80000334 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE TO USING THE NASAL SPRAY  
What the nasal spray looks like  
The nasal spray comes in an amber glass bottle inside a plastic casing - see picture a. It will contain either 
30, 60 or 120 sprays, depending on the pack size that has been prescribed for you. 
The window in the plastic casing lets you see how much Avamys is left in the bottle. You will be able to 
see the liquid level for a new 30 or 60 spray bottle, but not in a new 120 spray bottle because the liquid 
level is above the window.  
Six important things you need to know about using the nasal spray  
• 
Avamys comes in an amber glass bottle. If you need to check how much is left hold the nasal 
spray upright against a bright light. You will then be able to see the level through the window.   
•  When you first use the nasal spray you will need to shake it vigorously with the cap on for about 
10 seconds. This is important as Avamys is a thick suspension that becomes liquid when you shake 
it well - see picture b. It will only spray when it becomes liquid. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The mist-release button must be pressed firmly all the way in, to release the mist through the 
nozzle - see picture c.  
• 
If you have difficulty pressing the button with your thumb, you can use two hands – see picture d 
• 
Always keep the cap on the nasal spray when you are not using it. The cap keeps the dust out, 
seals in the pressure and stops the nozzle from blocking up. When the cap is in place the mist-
release button cannot be pressed accidentally. 
• 
Never use a pin or anything sharp to clear the nozzle. It will damage the nasal spray 
Preparing the nasal spray for use  
You must prepare the nasal spray:  
• 
• 
before you use it for the first time 
if you have left the cap off for 5 days or the intranasal device has not been used for 30 days or more. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparing the nasal spray helps to make sure you always get the full dose of medicine. Follow these steps: 
1 
Shake the nasal spray vigorously with the cap on for about 10 seconds.   
Remove the cap by squeezing firmly on the sides of the cap with your thumb and forefinger– see 
2 
picture e.  
3 
Hold the nasal spray upright, then tilt and point the nozzle away from you.  
Press the button firmly all the way in. Do this at least 6 times until it releases a fine mist of spray 
4 
into the air  – see picture f. 
The nasal spray is now ready for use.  
Using the nasal spray  
1 
2 
3 
4 
Shake the nasal spray vigorously.  
Remove the cap.  
Blow your nose to clear your nostrils, then tilt your head forward a little bit. 
Place the nozzle in one of your nostrils – see picture g.  Point the end of the nozzle slightly 
outwards, away from the centre ridge of your nose. This helps to get the medicine to the correct part 
of your nose. 
5 
Press the button firmly all the way in, while you breathe in through your nose – see picture h.  
30 
 
 
 
 
6 
7 
8 
9 
Take the nozzle out and breathe out through your mouth. 
If your dose is 2 sprays in each nostril repeat steps 4 to 6. 
Repeat steps 4 to 7 to treat the other nostril. 
Replace the cap on the nasal spray. 
Cleaning the nasal spray  
After each use:  
1 
Wipe the nozzle and inside of the cap with a clean, dry tissue – see pictures i and j.  
2 
3 
4 
Do not use water to clean it.  
Never use a pin or anything sharp on the nozzle.  
Always replace the cap once you have finished. 
 If the nasal spray does not seem to be working:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Check you still have medicine left. Look at the level through the window. If the level is very low 
there may not be enough left to work the nasal spray. 
Check the nasal spray for damage  
If you think the nozzle may be blocked, don’t use a pin or anything sharp to clear it.  
Try to reset it by following the instructions under ‘Preparing the nasal spray for use’.  
If it is still not working, or if it produces a jet of liquid, take the nasal spray back to the pharmacy to 
get advice.  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
