EMA/302947/2017 
EMEA/H/C/000582 
EPAR summary for the public 
Avastin 
bevacizumab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Avastin. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Avastin. 
For practical information about using Avastin, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Avastin and what is it used for? 
Avastin is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with the following types of cancer, in combination 
with other cancer medicines: 
• 
cancer of the colon (large intestine) or rectum that is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the 
body), in combination with chemotherapy medicines that include a ‘fluoropyrimidine’; 
•  metastatic breast cancer, in combination with paclitaxel or capecitabine;  
• 
• 
• 
• 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer in patients whose cancer cells are not mainly of the squamous 
type, where it is given with platinum-based chemotherapy; 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer in patients whose cancer cells have a certain change 
(‘activating mutations’) in the gene for a protein called EGFR, where it is given in combination with 
erlotinib; 
advanced or metastatic kidney cancer, in combination with interferon alfa-2a; 
epithelial cancer of the ovary, cancer of the fallopian tube (that connect the ovaries to the womb) 
or the peritoneum (the membrane lining the abdomen). Avastin is used in combination with certain 
chemotherapy medicines in newly diagnosed patients when the cancer is advanced, or in 
previously treated patients whose cancer has come back (recurrent). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
cancer of the cervix (the neck of the womb) that is persistent, recurrent or metastatic. Avastin is 
given in combination with paclitaxel and either the platinum-based medicine cisplatin or, if this 
cannot be used, another chemotherapy medicine, topotecan. 
Avastin contains the active substance bevacizumab. 
How is Avastin used? 
Avastin can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who 
has experience in the use of cancer treatments. 
Avastin is available as a concentrate that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. The 
first infusion of Avastin should last 90 minutes, but subsequent infusions may be given more quickly if 
the first infusion is tolerated well. The dose is between 5 and 15 mg per kilogram body weight every 
two or three weeks, depending on the type of cancer being treated. The treatment is continued until 
the patient no longer benefits from it. The doctor may decide to interrupt or stop treatment if the 
patient develops certain side effects.  
How does Avastin work? 
The active substance in Avastin, bevacizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a protein that 
circulates in the blood and makes blood vessels grow. By attaching to VEGF, Avastin stops it having an 
effect. As a result, the cancer cells cannot develop their own blood supply and are starved of oxygen 
and nutrients, helping to slow down the growth of tumours. 
What benefits of Avastin have been shown in studies? 
Several studies have shown that Avastin is effective at treating the types of cancers for which it is 
approved. In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was either overall survival (how long 
the patients lived) or progression-free survival (how long the patients lived without their disease 
getting worse). 
Cancer of the colon or rectum 
In metastatic cancer of the colon or rectum, Avastin used with chemotherapy including a 
fluoropyrimidine has been shown to increase overall and progression-free survival in three main 
studies. The first two studies involved patients whose metastatic disease was being treated for the first 
time (‘first-line’ treatment): in the first study (923 patients),the average overall survival was 20.3 
months in patients adding Avastin and 15.6 months in those receiving chemotherapy alone; in the 
second study in 1,401 patients, progression-free survival was 9.4 months in patients adding Avastin 
and 8.0 months in those receiving chemotherapy alone. The third study involved 829 patients who had 
failed previous treatment including a fluoropyrimidine and irinotecan. Overall survival was 12.9 months 
in patients adding Avastin and 10.8 months in those receiving chemotherapy alone. 
Breast cancer 
In metastatic breast cancer, Avastin has been shown to increase progression-free survival in two main 
studies. In the first study (722 patients), progression-free survival was 11.4 months in patients 
receiving Avastin with paclitaxel, compared with 5.8 months in those receiving paclitaxel alone. In the 
second study (1,237 patients), when Avastin was added to capecitabine, the average progression-free 
survival was 8.6 months, compared with 5.7 months in those receiving capecitabine with placebo.  
Avastin  
EMA/302947/2017  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
• 
• 
In advanced, metastatic or recurrent lung cancer, Avastin plus platinum-based chemotherapy has 
been shown to increase overall survival in one study in 878 patients: the average overall survival 
was 12.3 months in the patients taking Avastin with platinum-based chemotherapy, and 10.3 
months for those taking chemotherapy alone.  
In patients with a certain subtype of non-small cell lung cancer with activating mutations in the 
EGFR gene, Avastin plus erlotinib has been shown to increase progression-free survival in one 
study in 152 patients: patients on Avastin plus erlotinib had progression-free survival of 16.0 
months on average compared with 9.7 months in patients given erlotinib alone. 
Kidney cancer 
In advanced or metastatic kidney cancer, Avastin plus interferon alfa-2a has been shown to increase 
progression-free survival in one study in 649 patients: the average progression-free survival was 10.2 
months in the patients receiving Avastin plus interferon alfa-2a and 5.4 months in those receiving 
interferon alfa-2a. 
Ovarian, fallopian tube and peritoneal cancer 
•  Newly diagnosed disease (including advanced disease, first-line treatment): in newly diagnosed 
ovarian, fallopian tube and peritoneal cancer, Avastin, in combination with carboplatin and 
paclitaxel, has been shown to increase progression-free survival in two main studies involving 
3,401 patients: the average progression-free survival was 19.3 months in patients adding Avastin 
versus 16.9 months with carboplatin and paclitaxel alone in one study, and 14.7 months versus 
10.6 months in the second study.  
•  Recurrent disease: three studies with Avastin in recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube and peritoneal 
cancers were performed in a total of 1,518 patients. The first two studies included patients whose 
cancer came back 6 months or more after previous treatment (‘platinum-sensitive disease’), while 
the third study was in patients with more aggressive cancer that had come back within 6 months of 
previous treatment (‘platinum-resistant disease’). In the first study, average progression-free 
survival was 12.4 months when Avastin was added to carboplatin and gemcitabine, compared with 
8.4 months when placebo was added. In the second study, overall survival in patients given 
Avastin in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel was 42.6 months, compared with 37.3 
months in patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel only. In the third study in patients with 
more aggressive cancer, progression-free survival was 6.7 months when Avastin was added to 
paclitaxel, topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, compared with 3.4 months when these 
chemotherapies were used on their own. 
Cervical cancer 
In cancer of the cervix, Avastin has been shown to increase overall survival in one main study 
involving 452 patients with advanced persistent, recurrent or metastatic cancer of the cervix. The 
study compared the effect of adding Avastin to chemotherapy using paclitaxel plus cisplatin or 
topotecan to results in patients given chemotherapy alone. 
Results showed that the average overall survival was 16.8 months with chemotherapy including 
Avastin compared with 12.9 months on chemotherapy alone. When the type of chemotherapy was 
taken into account, there was a tendency for patients given cisplatin-based treatment to live on 
average about 2 months longer than those given topotecan-based treatment, independently of giving 
Avastin as part of the treatment regimens. 
Avastin  
EMA/302947/2017  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Avastin? 
The most common side effects with Avastin are hypertension (high blood pressure), tiredness or 
asthenia (weakness), diarrhoea and abdominal (belly) pain. The most serious side effects are 
gastrointestinal perforation (hole in the gut wall), haemorrhage (bleeding) and arterial 
thromboembolism (blood clots in the arteries). For the full list of all side effects reported with Avastin, 
see the package leaflet. 
Avastin must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to bevacizumab or any of the 
other ingredients, to Chinese hamster ovary cell products or other recombinant antibodies. It must not 
be given to pregnant women.  
Why has Avastin been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Avastin’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Avastin? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Avastin have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Avastin 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Avastin on 12 January 2005.  
The full EPAR for Avastin can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Avastin, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017. 
Avastin  
EMA/302947/2017  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
