London, 22 February 2007 
Product name: Avastin 
EMEA/H/C/582/II/08 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extension of  the indication to include Avastin in combination with paclitaxel for first-line 
treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer. 
1. 
Introduction 
Avastin  contains  bevacizumab,  a  recombinant  humanized  IgG1  antibody  that  binds  and  inhibits 
VEGF-induced effects in vitro and in vivo. VEGF, an endothelial cell-specific mitogen, is a regulator 
of  angiogenesis  and  is  believed  to  play  a  major  role  in  tumourgenesis.  Bevacizumab  blocks  the 
binding  of  VEGF  to  its  receptor,  thereby  inhibiting  angiogenesis  and  tumour  growth.  Bevacizumab 
has been developed as a novel therapeutic for treating solid tumours, and has been authorised in EU in 
January 2005 for the treatment of colorectal carcinoma.  
The  MAH  applied  for  the  indication:  “Avastin  (bevacizumab)  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  is 
indicated  for  first-line  treatment  of  patients  with  locally  recurrent  or  metastatic  breast  cancer”.  The 
recommended  dose  of  Avastin  is  10  mg/kg  of  body  weight  given  once  every  2  weeks  or  15  mg/kg 
given once every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide and the highest rate of occurrence is in 
Western Europe and North America. It has been estimated that in the year 2000, there were 350 000 
new breast cancer cases in Europe and that 130 000 women died as a result of breast cancer. Breast 
cancer is responsible for 26.5% of all new cancer cases amongst women in Europe and 17.5% of all 
cancer deaths.  
The median survival for patients with metastases at diagnosis is around 2-3 years with <20% still alive 
at  5  years.  For  women  who  are  not  candidates  for  hormonal  therapy,  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  is  the 
treatment of choice for metastatic disease or locally recurrent disease that is not amenable to curative 
therapy.  A  variety  of  cytotoxic  drugs  are  active  in  breast  cancer,  including  anthracyclines,  taxanes, 
alkylating  agents,  vinca  alkaloids  and  anti-metabolites,  such  as  5-fluorouracil,  capecitabine  or 
methotrexate.  
Paclitaxel is licensed for and widely used in the treatment of patients with breast cancer, in both the 
metastatic and adjuvant setting, due to its good activity and acceptable safety profile. It has also been 
successfully  combined  with  monoclonal  antibody  therapy  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  HER2 
(human  epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  type  2)-positive  breast  cancer  in  both  settings.  Thus, 
paclitaxel  is  a  logical  choice  for  combining  with  bevacizumab,  from  a  clinical  perspective.  Non-
clinical data also support the combination of bevacizumab and a taxane (paclitaxel or docetaxel) since 
bevacizumab  shows  synergistic  activity  with  docetaxel,  as  assessed  by  endothelial  cell  proliferation 
and tubule formation, in vitro. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical development program for bevacizumab in metastatic breast cancer consists of one large 
pivotal  phase  III  trial  of  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  versus  paclitaxel  alone  (study 
E2100) including 722 patients, and two supportive studies. The first supportive study was a phase I/II 
study  with  three  different  doses  of  bevacizumab  monotherapy  (study  AVF0776g)  including  75 
patients. The second was  a phase III study of bevacizumab in combination with capecitabine versus 
capecitabine alone (study AVF2119g) including 462 patients. 
The  pivotal  study  E2100  was  conducted  according  to  the  Eastern  Cooperative  Oncology  Group 
(ECOG) standard operating procedures ((ECOG Policy and Procedures Manual, Version 4 (November 
2000)  and  Version  5  (March  2003)),  and  in  accordance  with  all  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services,  Office  of  Human  Research  Protections,  and  U.S.  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA) 
regulations  regarding  the  conduct  of  human  research  that  gave  their  origins  in  the  Declaration  of 
Helsinki. The AVF2119g study and theAVF0776g study were performed in concordance with current 
standards  for  the  design,  conduct,  and  analysis  of  clinical  research,  including  GCP  and  all  region-
specific requirements. 
 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                               
2.1 
Clinical Pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology program comprised 10 studies with bevacizumab, which enrolled patients 
with a variety of tumor types, and evaluated a variety of dosing regimens. Nine of these studies were 
submitted  previously  in  the  original  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  (MAA)  submission  for 
colorectal cancer. 
Three of these were trials of bevacizumab monotherapy, five were combination trials of bevacizumab 
with  various  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  regimens,  and  one  was  a  trial  of  preoperative  bevacizumab 
which provided pharmacodynamic data only. One additional pharmacokinetic study is included with 
this submission – a trial of bevacizumab in combination with erlotinib in patients with non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). 
The  effects  of  demographic,  pathophysiological  covariates  and  concomitant  administration  of 
chemotherapeutic  agents,  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  bevacizumab  have  also  been  assessed  using 
population pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of data from the eight originally submitted studies. 
2.2   Clinical Efficacy 
One large, randomized open-label pivotal phase III trial (E2100) of paclitaxel versus paclitaxel plus 
bevacizumab  (rhuMAb  VEGF)  as  first-line  therapy  for  locally  recurrent  or  metastatic  breast  cancer 
including 722 patients was submitted to support the claimed indication. 722 patients were randomized 
(1:1)  to  paclitaxel  at  a  dose  of  90  mg/m2  weekly  for  3 weeks  followed  by  1 week  of  rest  with  or 
without bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg/kg every two weeks. 354 patients were randomized to receive 
paclitaxel  alone  and  368  patients  were  randomized  to  receive  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab.  The 
primary endpoint of the trial was progression-free survival (PFS).  
The applicant has provided justification for the 10mg/kg every two week dosage. The overall exposure 
is  similar  when  bevacizumab  is  given  at  a  dose  of  5  mg/kg/wk,  either  as  10  mg/kg/2w  or  as  15 
mg/kg/3w. A commitment to provide results from an ongoing study BO17708 as soon as it is available 
has also been given.  
Study scheme 
The pivotal study comprised patients with recurrent and metastatic breast cancer who have not over-
expressed HER2 or had received prior therapy with Herceptin. Patients with unknown HER2 status 
were  not  eligible  unless  Herceptin-based  therapy  was  considered  inappropriate  or  not  indicated. 
Virtually all patients entered in the pivotal study had disease recurrence after  initial local treatment 
plus  some  form  of  adjuvant  treatment  (radiotherapy,  antihormonal  treatment,  chemotherapy).  Some 
had also received antihormonal treatment or radiotherapy for a previous recurrence.  
Only a very small number (13) had locally recurrent breast cancer, which is to be expected as isolated 
loco-regional recurrence is less common, and some patients with loco-regional recurrence only will be 
treated less aggressively, either with local treatment or just anti-hormonal treatment. However, some 
of these patients will be candidates for more aggressive treatment, and there is no indication that the 
response of the disease in this situation is qualitatively different from the response in otherwise similar 
patients  where  the  disease  has  metastasised  outside  the  chest  wall  and  local  lymph  node  regions. 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, to reflect the small number of patients with locally recurrent breast cancer only in this study, 
the initially proposed indication has been revised to target the metastatic breast cancer population.   
The two supportive studies were: 
An open-label, multidose, multicenter phase I/II study (AVF0776g) to evaluate the safety, efficacy 
and pharmacokinetics of recombinant humanized  monoclonal anti-VEGF antibody (rhuMAb VEGF) 
as monotherapy in patients with relapsed metastatic breast cancer. 75 patients with previously-treated 
metastatic breast cancer received 3, 10 or 20 mg/kg bevacizumab as monotherapy every two weeks 
An  open-label,  multicenter,  randomized  phase  III  trial  (AVF2119g)  evaluating  the  efficacy,  safety 
and  pharmacokinetics  of  rhuMAb  VEGF  (bevacizumab),  in  combination  with  capecitabine 
chemotherapy versus capecitabine monotherapy, in patients with previously treated metastatic breast 
cancer.  462  patients  were  randomized  (1:1)  to  capecitabine  2500  or  1875  mg/m2/day  for  2  weeks 
followed  by  a  1  week  rest  with  or  without  bevacizumab  15  mg/kg  every  three  weeks.  230  patients 
were  randomized  to  receive  capecitabine  alone  and  232  patients  were  randomized  to  receive 
capecitabine plus bevacizumab.  
The two supportive studies did not test the proposed indication, and therefore contributed only to the 
safety evaluation. Also, the differences in the baseline characteristics in study AVF0776g and E2100 
make the comparison between the studies difficult.  
The primary objective of the pivotal Phase III study E2100 was:  
•  To  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  paclitaxel  in  combination  with  bevacizumab  compared  with 
paclitaxel  alone,  in  patients  with  chemotherapy-naïve  locally  recurrent  or  metastatic  breast 
cancer as measured by PFS (originally it was time to treatment failure, but this was changed 
by an amendment requested by the FDA).  
The secondary objectives were: 
•  To  evaluate  the  objective  response  rate,  duration  of  response,  and  OS  in  patients  with 
chemotherapy-naïve  locally  recurrent  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  treated  with  paclitaxel  in 
combination with bevacizumab compared with paclitaxel alone. 
•  To  evaluate  the  toxicity  of  paclitaxel  in  combination  with  bevacizumab  compared  with 
paclitaxel alone. 
•  To compare the quality of life (Functional Assessment of Cancer therapy – Breast (FACT-B)) 
of patients treated with paclitaxel to that of the combination of paclitaxel plus bevacizumab as 
first-line therapy for MBC.  
Other objectives were: 
•  To  examine  the  effect  of  missing  tumor  assessments,  non-protocol  therapy,  and  early 
discontinuation on the primary PFS results. 
•  To  examine  the  effects  of  demographic  and  baseline  prognostic  characteristics  on  PFS,  OS, 
and  objective  response  rate.  The  characteristics  include  disease-free  interval,  number  of 
metastatic sites, adjuvant chemotherapy, estrogen receptor status, ECOG performance status, 
age,  sex,  race,  baseline  sum  of  the  longest  diameters  of  all  target  lesions,  and  HER2 
expression status by immunohistochemistry. 
•  To  compare  time  to  treatment  failure  of  patients  treated  with  the  combination  of  paclitaxel 
plus bevacizumab to that of paclitaxel alone. 
Disease progression and tumor response were  assessed by the investigator and confirmed by ECOG 
(based  on  an  unblinded  review  of  data  submitted  by  the  investigator),  according  to  the  Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. 
Primary endpoint 
•  Progression free survival (PFS) 
The  stratified  analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint  of  duration  of  PFS  for  all  randomized  patients 
demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant increase in the median duration of PFS from 6.7 
to  13.3  months  among  patients  in  the  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab  arm  compared  with  those  in  the 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
paclitaxel alone arm (p<0.0001). The stratified hazard ratio for the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm 
relative to the paclitaxel alone arm was 0.48 (95% CI: 0.39, 0.59).  
The Kaplan-Meier curves for the duration of PFS are shown in the following figure: 
Duration of Progression Free Survival: Phase III Study E2100 - All Randomized Patients 
Comparisons of results in subgroups were performed. Subgroups included those defined by the four 
stratification  variables  (disease-free  interval,  number  of  metastatic  sites,  prior  receipt  of  adjuvant 
chemotherapy, and ER status) as well as demographic and baseline characteristics, such as age (<40, 
40–64, ≥65 years), race (White, non-White), baseline sum of the longest diameters of all target lesions, 
and HER2 expression status by FISH and IHC. Other characteristics considered but not pre-specified 
for  subgroup  analysis  included  prior  adjuvant  hormone  therapy,  prior  hormone  therapy  for  locally 
recurrent or MBC, and prior taxane or anthracycline therapy.  
The  reduction  in  the  risk  of  progression  or  death  in  clinically  important  patient  subgroups  was 
generally  consistent  with  the  results  seen  in  the  overall  analysis.  There  was  a  consistent  increase  in 
PFS  observed  across  all  subgroups  of patients  in  the  paclitaxel  +  bevacizumab  arm,  including  those 
with a poor prognosis or response to treatment. The benefit of adding bevacizumab to paclitaxel was 
seen irrespective of prior therapy (anthracyclines or taxanes), disease-free interval, sites of disease or 
tumor  burden  quantified  by  size  of  target  lesions  in  patients  with  measurable  disease,  or  hormone 
receptor  status,  including  patients  with  negative  results  on  ER,  PR  and  HER2  receptor  assays  (i.e. 
triple-negative  patients).  It  is  however  noted  that  the  extent  of  the  difference  in  progression-free 
survival was less pronounced in patients ≥ 65 years, with a HR of 0.91. 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Progression-Free Survival by Baseline Characteristics: 
Study E2100 – All Randomized Patients 
CI = confidence interval; PAC = paclitaxel; PAC/BV = paclitaxel plus bevacizumab; SLD = sum of longest diameter. 
HER2  is  positive  if  “amplified”  by  FISH  or  “3+”  by  IHC  per  protocol.  Median  PFS  was  estimated  from  Kaplan-Meier 
curves. Hazard ratio relative to PAC was estimated by Cox regression. Unstratified hazard ratio is displayed.  a   Median not 
available because of 0 or only 1 event. 
In  addition  to  determining  the  treatment  effect  across  a  number  of  subgroups,  proportional  hazards 
regression was applied to estimate the effect of bevacizumab after adjusting for important prognostic 
factors for PFS. The final  model for duration of PFS included the following: treatment, disease-free 
interval, number of metastatic sites, and ER status, see following table. 
 6
 
 
 
Baseline Risk Factor  
Progression-Free Survival by Baseline Risk Factor: Study E2100 
Parameter 
Estimates 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
DF 
SE 
p-value 
Treatment  
Pac (reference)  
Pac + Bv  
Disease-free interval (months) 
≤24 months (reference)  
>24 months  
Number of metastatic sites  
<3 (reference)  
≥3  
ER status  
1 
1 
1 
–0.61 
0.10 
0.54 (0.45, 0.66) 
<0.0001 
–0.25 
0.10 
0.78 (0.64, 0.95) 
0.0133 
0.47 
0.11 
1.60 (1.30, 1.96) 
<0.0001 
Negative (reference)  
Positive  
Unknown  
–0.43 
–0.71 
CI = confidence interval; DF = degree of freedom; ER = estrogen receptor; Pac = paclitaxel; Pac + Bv 
= paclitaxel + bevacizumab; SE = standard error. 
0.65 (0.53, 0.80) 
0.49 (0.20, 1.20) 
0.10 
0.46 
0.0001 
1 
1 
After  adjusting  for  these  factors,  a  strong  benefit  remained  for  treatment  with  paclitaxel  plus 
bevacizumab.  The  adjusted  hazard  ratio  indicates  an  approximately  46%  reduction  in  the  hazard  of 
progressive  disease  or  death  among  patients  who  received  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab  treatment 
compared with those who received paclitaxel alone 
Secondary endpoints 
•  Overall survival 
In the E2100 trial the median duration of follow-up for OS is 22.6 and 22.3 months for the paclitaxel 
and paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arms, respectively. At the time of the analysis, a total of 337 patients 
had died; 169 patients in the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm and 168 patients in the paclitaxel alone 
arm. This represents 70% of the 481 deaths required for the final analysis. The stratified analysis of 
OS  for  all  patients  demonstrated  a  longer  median  OS  among  patients  in  the  paclitaxel  plus 
bevacizumab arm compared with those in the paclitaxel alone arm. Median OS was 25.7 months in the 
paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm versus 23.8 months in the paclitaxel alone arm. The stratified hazard 
ratio for death for the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm relative to the paclitaxel alone arm was 0.82 
(95% CI: 0.66, 1.03; p = 0.082). There was thus no significant difference between the two treatment 
arms with regard to overall survival. Kaplan-Meier curves for OS are shown in the following figure. 
However,  based  on  the  number  of  patients  at  risk,  this  analysis  was  considered  preliminary.  Mature 
overall survival data is anticipated by 4Q 2007. 
A significantly better survival rate in the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm than in the paclitaxel alone 
arm was seen at 1-year, with 82.3% of patients still alive versus 73.8% (p-value 0.007), respectively 
(based  on  Kaplan-Meier  estimates).  However,  1-year  overall  survival  was  not  a  pre-specified 
endpoint. All patients except for 26 (7%) in each arm were reported to have been followed for at least 
1  year.  With  limited  follow-up  at  two  years,  the  survival  rate  is  38.6%  in  the  paclitaxel  plus 
bevacizumab and 36.4% in the paclitaxel alone arm.  
Crossover to bevacizumab after progression for patients in the paclitaxel alone arm was not offered as 
part  of  the  protocol,  nor  were  patients  in  the  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab  arm  offered  additional 
bevacizumab after progression. However, no information was collected regarding subsequent therapy 
after disease progression was determined for any patient. Thus, the impact of post-progression therapy, 
including  bevacizumab,  particularly  for  the  patients  in  the  paclitaxel  alone  arm,  on  OS  was  not 
discernable. Bevacizumab became commercially available in the US and elsewhere during the study, 
and thus crossover may have occurred. Lack of such information makes interpretation of the overall 
survival data difficult.  
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Survival: Phase III Study E2100 – All Randomized Patients 
•  Objective response 
In the E2100 study, among patients with measurable disease at baseline (268 patients [75.7%] in the 
paclitaxel alone arm and 246 [66.8%] in the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm), the objective response 
rate was statistically significantly higher (p <0.0001) in the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm (36.2%) 
compared  with  the  paclitaxel  alone  arm  (16.4%)  –  an  increase  of  19.8%.  Although  the  majority  of 
objective responses reported were partial responses, a greater percentage of patients in the paclitaxel 
plus  bevacizumab  arm  (15/89;  17%)  achieved  a  complete  response  compared  to  patients  in  the 
paclitaxel alone arm (5/44; 11%) and the absolute percentage of patients with a complete response was 
higher  in  the  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab  arm  (15/246,  6.1%)  compared  to  the  paclitaxel  alone  arm 
(5/268, 1.9%). 
•  Duration of response 
In  the  E2100  study,  among  all  randomized  patients  with  an  objective  response,  the  duration  of 
objective response was longer in the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm than in the paclitaxel alone arm. 
The median duration of response for the 86 patients with an objective response in the paclitaxel plus 
bevacizumab arm was 11.3 months versus 9.0 months for the 43 patients with an objective response in 
the paclitaxel alone arm. Because the determination of duration of objective response was based on a 
non-randomized  subset  of  patients,  formal  hypothesis  testing  was  not  performed.  However,  the 
treatment  arms  were  compared  for  descriptive  purposes  among  patients  with  an  objective  response 
(p=0.5197 from the unstratified log-rank test).  
•  Quality of life 
The  FACT-B  questionnaire  used  and  presented  for  evaluation  is  a  valid  and  recognized  measure  of 
quality  of  life  (QoL)  in  patients  with  breast  cancer.  As  in  so  many  QoL  studies  the  treatment  of 
missing data is the problem. A significant number of questionnaires were missing at week 17 and 33. 
Hence, data from these points in time could not be included. To account for missing data, the MAH 
conducted  analyses  of  data  using  a  number  of  imputation  rules  for  missing  data.  In  an  anaylsis 
specified in SAP, where the missing scores for patients who died or had progressive disease prior were 
taken  as  zero  (i.e.  worst  QoL  score),  an  improvement  in  QoL  was  seen  in  the  combination  arm 
compared  with  control.  The  results  of  analyses  using  other  imputation  rules  also  showed  a  trend 
towards  a  better  QoL  with  bevacizumab  treatment  even  with  the  most  conservative  imputation 
method.  However,  the  fact  that  QoL  data  were  obtained  in  an  open-label  phase  III  trial  (i.e.  in  an 
unblinded manner) makes any conclusions less reliable.    
Summary of efficacy results in trials AVF0776g and AVF2119g 
In the Phase I/II study AVF0776g, median time to progression was reported this was similar between 
the  three  doses  of  bevacizumab  studied:  2.3,  2.5  and  2.3  months  in  the  3 mg/kg,  10  mg/kg  and  20 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
mg/kg  arms,  respectively.  Overall,  objective  tumor  responses  (complete  or  partial  response)  were 
documented in 7 of 75 (9.3%) patients  and confirmed in 5 (6.7%) patients. Of those patients with a 
confirmed response, one (6%) patient each treated with 3 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg had a partial response, 
two patients (5%) treated with 10 mg/kg had a partial response and one patient (2%) had a complete 
response. The two unconfirmed responses were both partial responses and occurred in the 10 mg/kg 
group. Stable disease or better at the last tumor assessment after five months of treatment was seen in 
12/75 (16%) of patients. Across all doses tested, the median duration of the five confirmed responses 
was  5.5  months,  and  the  individual  durations  of  response  were  2.3,  3.1,  3.7  (censored),  5.6,  and 
13.7 months. 
In study AVF2119g which was conducted in heavily pretreated patients, at the time of data cutoff 272 
patients had experienced an event: 126 patients (54.7%) in the capecitabine alone arm and 146 patients 
(62.9%)  in  the  bevacizumab  plus  capecitabine  arm.  The  stratified  efficacy  analysis  did  not 
demonstrate a statistically significant effect of bevacizumab treatment on PFS. The median PFS was 
4.2 months in the capecitabine alone arm and 4.9 months in the bevacizumab plus capecitabine arm; 
the hazard ratio relative to capecitabine alone was 0.98, indicating no significant treatment benefit.. 
In the AVF2119g study, the objective response rate was statistically significantly higher (p=0.001) in 
the bevacizumab plus capecitabine arm (46/232; 19.8%) than in the capecitabine alone arm (21/230; 
9.1%)  -  an  absolute  increase  of  10.7%  and  a  more  than  doubling  in  relative  terms.  None  of  the 
responses were assessed as complete responses. The objective response rate by INV assessment was 
also  statistically  significantly  higher  (p=0.006)  in  the  combination  arm  (30.2%)  than  in  the 
capecitabine alone arm (19.1%), with a similar magnitude of effect (11.0% absolute difference). Nine 
of the objective responses by INV assessment were considered complete responses. 
There was substantial censoring of duration of objective response: 51% of responders in the IRF/INV 
analysis  and  45%  of  responders  in  the  INV  analysis  had  an  ongoing  response  at  the  last  tumor 
assessment before the data cutoff date. Although a significantly higher response rate was observed in 
the  bevacizumab  plus  capecitabine  arm  than  in  the  capecitabine  alone  arm  (19.8%  vs  9.1%),  the 
median  duration  of  objective  response  was  shorter  in  the  bevacizumab  plus  capecitabine  arm, 
according to both the IRF/INV (4.96 vs 7.56 months) and INV assessments (4.96 vs 6.70 months).  
Because  this  analysis  is  based  on  a  non-randomized  subset  of  patients,  caution  should  be  taken  in 
comparing  duration  of  objective  response  between  the  two  arms.  The  additional  responders  in  the 
bevacizumab plus capecitabine arm tended to have responses of short duration and the proportion of 
patients with responses longer than four months in duration was approximately equal in the two arms.  
Overall conclusions on clinical efficacy 
This  application  is  based  on  two  open–label,  randomised,  two  arms,  phase  III  studies  and  one  un–
controlled, single arm, phase II study which were conducted with patients with locally recurrent and 
metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  pivotal  study  (E2100)  was  conducted  at  259  centres  in  the  USA  and 
compared  bevacizumab  10  mg/kg/q2w  and  paclitaxel  vs.  paclitaxel  alone.  The  treatment  was  given 
until  disease  progression  or  inability  to  tolerate  investigational  product.  Crossover  to  bevacizumab 
after progression for patients in the paclitaxel alone arm was not offered as part of the protocol. The 
demographic  and  disease  data  were  similar  between  the  two  treatment  arms,  and  these  data  are 
considered as representative of patients with advanced breast cancer. However, only a small number 
(13 of 722 [1.8%]) of patients in this study had locally recurrent breast cancer and consequently the 
the initial proposed indication has been revised to target the metastatic breast cancer population.  
The  MAH  has  proposed  10mg/kg  every  two  week  dosage.  It  is  agreed  that  the  overall  exposure  is 
similar when bevacizumab is given at a dose of 5 mg/kg/wk, either as 10 mg/kg/2w or as 15 mg/kg/3w 
and  the  lack  of  comparative  data  of  the  currently  authorised  5  mg/kg/2w  dose  versus  the  tested  10 
mg/kg/2w dose can be justified.  
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  whether  bevacizumab  plus  paclitaxel  improves 
progression–free  survival  compared  with  paclitaxel  alone  in  subjects  with  locally  recurrent  or 
metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  objective  response  rate, 
duration  of  response,  overall  survival,  toxicity,  quality  of  life  in  patients  with  chemotherapy–naive 
locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer treated with paclitaxel in combination with bevacizumab 
compared with paclitaxel alone.  
 9
 
 
 
 
The pivotal study E2100 showed a significant prolongation of PFS from a median of 6.7 months with 
paclitaxel alone to a median of 13.3 months with paclitaxel plus bevacizumab. PFS was the primary 
endpoint of the trial. However, as the study was an open-label study with no blinding with regard to 
the assessment of response and progression parameters, a risk of bias in the evaluation of PFS cannot 
be excluded. An independent review of the data is ongoing with a planned submission by 4Q 2007.  
There  was  no  statistically  significant  improvement  in  OS,  although  the  1-year  survival  was 
significantly better in the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm. However, data are not yet mature enough 
for the final analysis of OS. Mature overall survival is expected by 4Q 2007 and will be provided as a 
post-approval committment.  
QoL is stated as a secondary endpoint in the trial. The FACT-B questionnaire is a valid and recognized 
measure of quality of life in patients with breast cancer. As in so many QoL studies, the handling of 
missing data is problematic, and, together with the fact that QoL data were obtained in an open-label 
phase  III  trial  (i.e.  in  an  unblinded  manner),  makes  any  conclusions  drawn  from  these  analyses  less 
reliable.  
The comparison between the efficacy results from the pivotal study (E2100) and the two supportive 
studies  (one  phase  III  [AVF2119g]  and  one  phase  II  [AVF0776g])  is  difficult  as  there  are  different 
inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  and  different  treatment  regimes.  In  the  Phase  III  study  AVF2119g, 
efficacy  and  safety  of  bevacizumab  when  combined  with  capecitabine  was  compared  with 
capecitabine alone in patients previously treated with both an anthracycline and a taxane, either in the 
adjuvant or metastatic setting. In this study no significant prolongation of PFS was observed. Although 
this study cannot be directly relevant to the present application the lack of effect when bevacizumab is 
used as add-on to capecitabine is being further explored by the MAH in a study recruiting less heavily 
pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer. 
2.3. 
Clinical safety  
The  overall  evaluation  of  safety  information  for  the  proposed  indication  in  locally  recurrent  or 
metastatic  breast  cancer  (mBC)  comes  from  the  Phase  III  study,  E2100,  of  bevacizumab  in 
combination  with  paclitaxel  as  first-line  therapy.  In  addition,  safety  information  from  the  Phase  II 
study, AVF0776g, of bevacizumab as monotherapy in patients with relapsed MBC and from the Phase 
III  study,  AVF2119g,  of  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  capecitabine  in  patients  with  previously 
treated mBC is also included. In total, 362 patients were exposed to bevacizumab in combination with 
paclitaxel, 75 to bevacizumab alone and 229 to bevacizumab in combination with capecitabine. Given 
the  differences  between  the  three  studies  in  data  collection  and  recording,  as  well  as  in  the  patient 
populations (specifically, exposure to prior therapy in the adjuvant and metastatic setting) and study 
designs  (monotherapy  versus  combination  with  chemotherapy),  pooling  of  the  safety  data  from  the 
three studies is not considered meaningful. 
AEs were collected differently for each study. Study E2100 was conducted by the Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology  Group  (ECOG)  and  NCI-CTC  Grade  3-5  non-hematological  AEs  and  Grade  4  and  5 
hematological AEs were reported on the ECOG Toxicity Form of the CRF.  
For  studies  AVF0776g  and  AVF2119g,  information  on  all  AEs  (all  grades)  was  reported.  In  both 
studies, patients were evaluated for AEs at each study visit for the duration of their participation in the 
study. In study AVF0776g, patients discontinued from treatment because of disease progression were 
evaluated  for  safety  four  weeks  after  the  last  dose  of  bevacizumab.  In  study  AVF2119g,  patients 
discontinued from study treatment because of disease progression were evaluated 21 days after the last 
dose  of  bevacizumab  or  seven  days  after  the  last  dose  of  capecitabine  for  patients  randomized  to 
capecitabine alone. 
Due  to  the  differences  in  collection  of  AEs  between  studies,  safety  evaluations  in  this  summary 
document  for  study  E2100  are  based  on  AEs  reported  in  the  CRF  Toxicity  Form  for  cross-study 
comparisons.  AEs  reported  to  AdEERS  are  provided  but  only  used  to  gain  a  more  complete  safety 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
profile  of  bevacizumab-treated  patients.  For  study  AVF2119g,  safety  evaluations  are  based  on  the 
period prior to disease progression, in which full safety data are available for both treatment arms. 
The  most  common  AEs  in  the  three  studies  in  mBC  occurred  in  the  body  systems  gastrointestinal 
disorders,  and  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions.  In  these  body  systems,  the  most 
frequently reported AEs were nausea, vomiting and fatigue/asthenia. These AEs which are frequently 
associated with chemotherapy, but also occur with bevacizumab monotherapy, occurred with a similar 
frequency in the different treatment arms in each study. The addition of bevacizumab treatment did not 
appear to increase the frequency of these  AEs in the combination arms, apart from a  slight increase 
(< 5%)  in  the  incidence  of  fatigue  in  study  E2100, which  may  potentially  be  associated  with  longer 
treatment duration with paclitaxel in the combination arm.  
The  AEs  that  were  increased  in  the  combination  arms  of  each  study  E2100  and  AVF2119g  (≥ 2% 
difference  between  treatment  arms)  have  previously  been  identified  as  being  associated  with 
bevacizumab treatment. In study E2100 these AEs included hypertension (15.5% in the paclitaxel plus 
bevacizumab  arm  vs  1.4%  in  the  paclitaxel  arm)  and  proteinuria  (3.0%  vs.  0%).  Peripheral  sensory 
neuropathy was also increased in the combination arm (23.2% vs. 16.5%), although this difference in 
incidence between treatment arms is likely to have been due to the longer duration of treatment and 
greater cumulative dose of paclitaxel received by patients in the combination arm. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
In  study  E2100,  information  regarding  patient  deaths  was  collected  in  at  least  one  of  the  following 
three sources:  
1.  On the E2100 CRF Long-Term Follow-Up Form for both treatment arms 
2.  As NCI-CTC Grade 5 events on the E2100 CRF Toxicity Form for both treatment arms 
3.  As NCI-CTC Grade 5 events reported to NCI AdEERS for the paclitaxel plus bevacizumab arm 
only 
A direct comparison of Grade 5 events across the treatment arms cannot be performed. In study E2100 
in  the  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab  arm,  13  patients  had  NCI-CTC  Grade 5  events.  In  summary  the 
Grade  5  AEs  in  study  E2100  (CRF  Toxicity  Form  only)  and  the  AEs  leading  to  death  in  study 
AVF2119g were mostly single events in different body systems with no obvious clustering or unifying 
features. There were no AEs leading to death in study AVF0776g. 
The  targeted  AEs  are  more  frequent  in  the  patients  treated  with  the  combination  with  bevacizumab. 
They are not unexpected given the known toxicity profile of bevacizumab. Hypertension, proteinuria, 
arterial thromboembolic events, hemorrhage, congestive heart failure, gastrointestinal perforation, and 
wound healing problems are seen at an increased rate with the combination, whereas the neuropathy 
seems  to  be  explained  by  the  longer  treatment  in  the  combined  arm.  Although  most  of  these 
complications are infrequent, seen only in 1-2 % of patients, they cause significant morbidity and may 
be lethal.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Data from 1227 patients (E2100: 708 patients; AVF2119g: 444 patients; AVF0776g: 75 patients) who 
had received at least one full or partial dose of study medication were included in the safety analyses.  
Only the data from the pivotal E2100 study can provide information on the toxicity of the combination 
of  paclitaxel  and  bevacizumab  applied  for.  Only  Grades  3-5  haematological  and  Grades  4-5  non-
haematological  AEs  were  reported,  so  less  serious  (but  potentially  still  significant)  AEs  were  not 
reported. Some events were reported through the NCI Adverse Event Expedited Reporting System, but 
only  for  patient  in  the  paclitaxel  plus  bevacizumab  arm,  which  makes  comparisons  between  the 
combination and the paclitaxel only arm difficult.  
The presented safety profile of the combination of paclitaxel and bevacizumab does not add any new 
or unexpected toxicities. The AEs encountered with the combination are as would be expected from 
the present knowledge of the safety profile of the two drugs. The most common serious adverse events 
that  were  ≥  2%  difference  in  incidence  were:  sensory  neuropathy  (16.5%  vs.  23.2%),  hypertension 
(1.4%  vs. 15.5%), fatigue (4.9% vs. 8.6%), and proteinuria (0.0% vs. 3.0%) for paclitaxel alone and 
 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bevacizumab plus paclitaxel, respectively. Among treated patients, 160 patients (46.2%) treated with 
paclitaxel alone and 243 patients (67.1%) treated with paclitaxel + bevacizumab reported at least one 
Grade 3–5 non–hematologic or Grade 4 or 5 hematologic adverse events. Among treated patients, 166 
(48.0  %)  treated  with  paclitaxel  alone  and  165  (45.6  %)  treated  with  paclitaxel  +  bevacizumab  died 
during the study or during follow–up.  
Overall Discussion and Benefit –Risk assessment 
PFS  was  the  primary  endpoint  in  the  pivotal  trial,  with  OS  a  secondary  endpoint.  As  stated  in  the 
“EMEA Guideline for the Evaluation of Anticancer Medicinal Products in Man” both OS and PFS are 
acceptable primary endpoints. There should, however, be sufficient evidence available demonstrating 
that  the  chosen  primary  endpoint  can  provide  a  valid  and  reliable  measure  of  clinical  benefit  in  the 
patient population described by the inclusion criteria. If major differences in toxicity are expected in 
favour  of  the  control  regimen,  OS  should  normally  be  selected  as  the  most  appropriate  primary 
endpoint. 
In order to exclude any possibility of bias, an independent review of the results is currently ongoing 
and  will  be  submitted  to  the  CHMP.  Detailed  information  about  the  independent  review  of  the 
radiologic  images  was  provided  by  the  MAH.  The  images  will  be  reviewed  by  two  independent 
radiologists who are blinded to the treatment arm, and in case of discordance a third radiologist will 
review the results and resolve the matter. Subsequently, an independent oncologist who is also blinded 
to the treatment arm will review the radiological assessment and complete the assessment on the basis 
of  clinical  information.  This  procedure  would  seem  to  satisfy  the  requirements  for  an  independent 
review  of  outcome  data.  The  difference  in  PFS  is  substantial  in  this  patient  population  and  it  seems 
unlikely that the independent review will change the overall significance level although the absolute 
magnitude of prolongation in PFS cannot be assessed reliably from the data presented. 
Sensitivity  analyses,  conducted  by  the  MAH  with  the  aim  of  assessing  the  impact  of  a  potential 
investigator bias, provide reassurance that the substantial prolongation in PFS in the bevacizumab arm 
is  unlikely  to  be  attributable  to  bias.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  results  of  this  independent  review 
from  E2100  study  should  be  provided  as  a  post  approval  commitment.  The  MAH  will  include  a 
description of the independent review results in the prescribing information. Moreover the MAH will 
provide to the CHMP the results of the mature overall survival analysis from E2100 by 4Q 2007 and 
will update the summary of product characteristics accordingly. 
The updated QoL analyses carried out show a trend towards a better QoL with bevacizumab treatment 
even using the most conservative imputation method. However, the fact that QoL data were obtained 
in an open-label phase III trial (i.e. in an unblinded manner) makes any assessment less reliable.  
In  the  Phase  III  study  AVF2119g,  efficacy  and  safety  of  bevacizumab  when  combined  with 
capecitabine  was  compared  with  capecitabine  alone  in  patients  previously  treated  with  both  an 
anthracycline  and  a  taxane,  either  in  the  adjuvant  or  metastatic  setting.  In  this  study  no  significant 
prolongation  of  PFS  was  observed.  Although  this  study  cannot  be  directly  relevant  to  the  present 
application these contradicting results with respect to PFS were of concern to the CHMP. In order to  
further  explore  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  bevacizumab  and  capecitabine  combination,  the  MAH 
committed  to  provide  the  results  of    the  ongoing  clinical  trial  AVF3964g,  studying  the  addition  of 
bevacizumab onto standard chemotherapy in first-line metastatic breast cancer treatment.  The results 
of AVF3694g are expected to become available in 2Q 2008.  
The presented safety profile of the combination of paclitaxel and bevacizumab does not add any new 
or unexpected toxicities. It can be concluded that the benefit-risk ratio of Avastin in combination with 
paclitaxel in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer is positive.  
3. 
CONCLUSION 
-  On 22 February 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on 
the amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments: 
Area1 
Clinical 
Clinical 
Clinical 
Clinical 
Description 
To provide to the CHMP the results of the independent review 
from E2100 study by 4Q 2007, and to include a description of the 
independent review results in the prescribing information. 
Due date2 
4Q 2007 
To provide to the CHMP the results of the mature overall survival 
analysis from E2100 by 4Q 2007, and to update the prescribing 
information accordingly. 
4Q 2007 
In light of the study results from trial AVF2119g, the MAH 
commits to further explore the efficacy and safety of 
bevacizumab and capecitabine combination within the ongoing 
clinical trial AVF3964g, studying the addition of bevacizumab 
onto standard chemotherapy in first-line metastatic breast cancer 
treatment.  
To provide the results from an ongoing study BO17708, testing 
two dose levels of bevacizumab in combination with docetaxel as 
first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer (2.5mg/kg/weekly 
equivalent and 5mg/kg/weekly equivalent) and to revisit the 
current dose recommendation for bevacizumab in metastatic 
breast cancer (5mg/kg/weekly equivalent) on the basis of the 
results from BO17708 trial. 
2Q 2008 
2Q 2008 
Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance 
Due  date  for  the  follow-up  measure  or  for  the  first  interim  report  if  a  precise  date  cannot  be 
1. 
2. 
committed to. 
 13
 
 
 
 
