European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 March 2008   
Doc. Ref No.:EMEA/274499/2009  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
AVASTIN 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
bevacizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/582/II/0025 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. 
Introduction 
Bevacizumab  is  a  recombinant  humanized  monoclonal  antibody.  It  inhibits  angiogenesis  by 
neutralizing all isoforms of human vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF), and blocking their 
binding to VEGF receptors. 
Avastin was approved in the European Union (EU) on January 12, 2005 for the first-line treatment of 
patients  with  metastatic  cancer  of  the  colon  or  rectum  (mCRC),  in  combination  with  intravenous  5- 
fluorouracil/folinic  acid  or  intravenous  5-fluorouracil/folinic  acid/irinotecan.  Following  this,  Avastin 
was approved for the treatment of locally recurrent and metastatic breast cancer, for Non- Small Cell 
Lung Cancer  for Renal Cell Cancer and for  use in combination with platinum containing regimen for 
mCRC in 2007.  
The scope of this variation is to update the SmPC, as follows: 
-  Update  to  Section  4.3  “Contraindications”  to  remove  the  contraindication  in  patients  with 
untreated  CNS  metastases.  As  a  consequence,  the  relevant  information  under  heading 
“Haemorrhage”  in  Sections  4.4  “Special  Warnings  and  Precautions  for  Use”  and  4.8 
“Undesirable effects” has also been updated, to reflect the data derived through the safety review, 
supporting the removal of the contraindication. 
-  Updates to Section 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic Properties”:  
o 
o 
chemotherapy 
to include the results of the final overall survival analysis from BO17704 study, thus also 
fulfilling a post-approval commitment made at the time of the extension of the indication 
for  first-line  treatment  of  unresectable  advanced,  metastatic  or  recurrent  non-small  cell 
lung  cancer,  other  than  predominantly  squamous  cell  histology,  in  combination  with 
number  EMEA/H/C/582/II/009, 
platinum-containing 
Commission Decision dated 21 August 2007); 
to  include  the  results  of  the  retrospective  independent  radiological  review  of  tumour 
assessments from BO17705 study, thus also fulfilling a post-approval commitment made 
at the time of extension of the indication for Avastin to register new indication for first-
line  treatment  of  advanced  and/or  metastatic  renal  cell  cancer  in  combination  with 
interferon-alfa-2a  (procedure  number  EMEA/H/C/582/II/015,  Commission  Decision 
dated 14 December 2007). 
(procedure 
The Annex III (Package Insert) has also been updated, where appropriate. 
1.2  Clinical aspects 
- Removal of the contraindication in patients with untreated CNS metastases 
Avastin (bevacizumab) is currently contraindicated in patients with untreated central nervous system 
(CNS) metastases. The contraindication in this patient population was introduced during the original 
MAA review in 2004, based on a single case of fatal intracranial bleeding in a patient with metastatic 
hepatocellular  carcinoma,  enrolled  in  a  Phase  I  study  of  bevacizumab.  Of  note,  the  CNS  metastases 
from  hepatocellular  carcinoma  tend  to  have  an  inherently  high  tendency  of  bleeding  –  with  87.5% 
bleeding rate reported in literature. At the time of the original MAA review for Avastin, in the absence 
of further safety data from patients with untreated CNS metastases exposed to bevacizumab, it was a 
prudent step to introduce a contraindication in the prescribing information for Avastin, and to exclude 
such patients from the clinical trials of bevacizumab. 
Since  then,  with  greater  experience  of  bevacizumab  use,  gathered  through  the  extensive  clinical 
development  program,  as  well  as  the  use  of  the  product  in  clinical  practice,  Roche  decided  to  re-
evaluate  the  need  to  continue  maintaining  the  contraindication  for  bevacizumab  use  in  patients  with 
CNS metastases. To this end, a retrospective review of safety data in patients with CNS metastases, 
with specific focus on the risk of intracranial bleeding in patients with CNS metastases, was carried 
out.  The  safety  data  included  in  this  review  came  from  controlled  and  single-arm  clinical  trials 
conducted  by  Roche,  Genentech  and  ECOG,  as  well  as  data  from  Roche’s  Global  Safety  Database 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADVENT, and from a Postmarketing Safety Report of treated CNS Metastases in patients enrolled in 
2 bevacizumab studies, prepared by Genentech to meet a post-approval commitment made to the FDA.  
Since brain metastases was an exclusion criterion in most of the clinical trials with bevacizumab, the 
safety  data  from  clinical  trials,  used  in  this  review,  came  either  from  patients  who  had  undiagnosed 
brain metastases at study entry or from patients who developed brain metastases during the trials. The 
same also applies to patients who had been treated with bevacizumab in clinical practice in the Roche 
territories–  either  their  treatment  was  initiated  despite  presence  of  CNS  metastases  or  they  had 
developed such metastases during the treatment. Of note, the use of bevacizumab in patients with CNS 
metastases is not and has not been contraindicated in the USA, therefore, post-marketing data derived 
from  the  Roche’s  Global  Safety  Database  ADVENT  includes  data  from  patients  treated  with 
bevacizumab  in  the  USA  with  diagnosed  brain  metastases,  who  had  been  treated  according  to  the 
USPI for bevacizumab since February 2004 (approval date of Avastin in the USA).  
In addition to the Roche’s review of safety data in patients with untreated CNS metastases, Genentech 
had  conducted  a  review  of  data  from  two  post-marketing  studies  conducted  in  patients  with  treated 
CNS  metastases,  as  part  of  post-approval  commitment  made  to  the  FDA  at  the  time  of  the  original 
approval for Avastin in the USA, as mentioned above.  
Below is the summary of the key findings from this report: 
• 
In  randomized,  controlled  clinical  trials  including  over  8400  subjects  in  various  indications, 
3 patients  (all  of  NCI/CTC  grade  4)  out  of  91  (3.30%)  with  brain  metastases  experienced  a 
CNS bleeding when treated with bevacizumab, compared to 1 (NCI/CTC grade 5) out of 96 
(1.04%) that were not exposed to bevacizumab.  
• 
•  Exploratory  OS  analysis  does  not  appear  to  show  a  detrimental  effect  on  survival  for 
bevacizumab-exposed  patients  with  brain  metastases,  compared  to  patients  with  brain 
metastases, who had not received bevacizumab. 
In 2 ongoing, post-approval, open-label, single-arm studies, including over 3200 patients, 68 
patients  developed  brain  metastases  during  study  treatment;  no  case  of  CNS  bleeding  was 
observed, as of cut-off date used for the safety review. 
In  a  postmarketing  safety  report  prepared  by  Genentech,  one  subject  out  of  83  (1.2%) 
developed a grade 2 CNS hemorrhage in a population of NSCLC patients with treated brain 
metastases. 
Individual case analysis of reports retrieved from Roche’s safety database ADVENT revealed 
4  reports  of  patients  with  brain  metastases  and  suspected  tumor  associated  hemorrhage  for 
which at least a contributing role of bevacizumab could not formally be ruled out on the basis 
of a possible temporal relationship. 
• 
• 
•  The review of published literature does not contain information referring to bleeding of CNS 
metastases in relation to treatment with bevacizumab. 
•  Epidemiological data report a background rate of 5% to 87.5% of CNS bleeding from brain 
metastases, depending on the origin of the primary tumor. 
Based  on  the  results  of  this  safety  review,  a  contraindication  for  bevacizumab  use  in  patients  with 
brain  metastases  is  no  longer  justified.  The  presented  data  show  no  increased  CNS  bleeding  risk 
compared to the reported background rates. The rates and severity of CNS bleeding, with or without 
bevacizumab  therapy,  as  observed  in  the  controlled  clinical  studies,  were  within  the  expected 
background range for studied tumor types. Whilst there appears to be a numerically higher incidence 
of intracranial bleeding in patients with CNS metastases, when exposed to bevacizumab, based on the 
numbers  derived  from  clinical  studies  of  bevacizumab,  this  increase  is  not  of  such  magnitude  as  to 
represent  a  prohibitively  high  risk,  justifying  continued  withholding  of  a  potentially  beneficial 
treatment from these patients. Therefore, it is proposed to remove the contraindication in patients with 
untreated brain metastases from the Avastin SmPC, thus allowing access to bevacizumab treatment for 
this patient population. The treatment decisions should be driven by risk/benefit assessment carried out 
by the treating physicians for individual patients. To aid the physicians in making treatment decisions 
in  these  situations,  Roche  also  proposes  to  update  the  relevant  parts  of  the  “Special  Warnings  and 
Precautions  for  Use”  and  “Undesirable  Effects”  sections  of  the  SmPC  with  information  derived 
3 
 
 
 
 
through  the  safety  review,  underpinning  the  application  for  contraindication  removal,  as  follows 
(deleted text in strikethrough, new text – underlined):  
Section 4.3 “Contraindications”: 
Proposed text:  
•  Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients.  
•  Hypersensitivity to Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell products or other recombinant human 
or humanised antibodies. 
•  Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
•  Avastin  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  untreated  CNS  metastases  (see  sections  4.4  and 
4.8). 
Section 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for use”: 
Proposed text:  
Haemorrhage 
The risk of CNS haemorrhage in patients with CNS metastases receiving Avastin could not be 
fully evaluated, as these patients were excluded from clinical trials. Thus, Avastin should not 
be used in these patients (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
Patients  treated  with  Avastin  have  an  increased  risk  of  haemorrhage,  especially  tumour-
associated  haemorrhage.  Avastin  should  be  discontinued  permanently  in  patients  who 
experience Grade 3 or 4 bleeding during Avastin therapy (see section 4.8).  
Patients  with  untreated  CNS  metastases  were  routinely  excluded  from  clinical  trials  with 
Avastin,  based  on  imaging  procedures  or  signs  and  symptoms.  Therefore,  the  risk  of  CNS 
haemorrhage  in  such  patients  has  not  been  prospectively  evaluated  in  randomised  clinical 
studies  (see  section  4.8).  Patients  should  be  monitored  for  signs  and  symptoms  of  CNS 
bleeding, and Avastin treatment discontinued in case of intracranial bleeding.  
There is no information on the safety profile of Avastin in patients with congenital bleeding 
diathesis,  acquired  coagulopathy  or  in  patients  receiving  full  dose  of  anticoagulants  for  the 
treatment  of  thromboembolism  prior  to  starting  Avastin  treatment,  as  such  patients  were 
excluded from clinical trials. Therefore, caution should be exercised before initiating therapy 
in  these  patients.  However,  patients  who  developed  venous  thrombosis  while  receiving 
therapy  did  not  appear  to  have  an  increased  rate  of  grade  3  or  above  bleeding  when  treated 
with a full dose of warfarin and Avastin concomitantly. 
Section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” 
Proposed text:  
Haemorrhage 
Tumour-associated haemorrhage (see section 4.4).  
Major or massive pulmonary haemorrhage/haemoptysis has been observed primarily in studies 
in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Possible risk factors include squamous 
cell  histology, 
treatment  with 
treatment  with  antirheumatic/anti-inflammatory  drugs, 
therapy,  previous  medical  history  of 
anticoagulants,  prior 
atherosclerosis, central tumour location and cavitation of tumours prior to or during therapy. 
The  only  variables  that  showed  statistically  significant  correlations  with  bleeding  were 
Avastin therapy and squamous cell histology. Patients with NSCLC of known squamous cell 
histology  or mixed  cell  type  with  predominant  squamous  cell  histology  were  excluded  from 
subsequent phase III studies, while patients with unknown tumour histology were included. 
radiotherapy,  Avastin 
In  patients  with  NSCLC  excluding  predominant  squamous  histology,  all  grade  events  were 
seen  with  a  frequency  of up  to  9%  when  treated  with  Avastin  plus  chemotherapy  compared 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  5%  in  the  patients  treated  with  chemotherapy  alone.  Grade  3-5  events  have  been 
observed in up to 2.3% of patients treated with Avastin plus chemotherapy as compared with 
< 1%  with  chemotherapy  alone.  Major  or  massive  pulmonary  haemorrhage/haemoptysis  can 
occur suddenly and up to two thirds of the serious pulmonary haemorrhages resulted in a fatal 
outcome. 
Gastrointestinal  haemorrhages,  including  rectal  bleeding  and  melaena  have  been  reported  in 
colorectal cancer patients, and have been assessed as tumour-associated haemorrhages.  
Tumour-associated  haemorrhage  was  also  seen  rarely  in  other  tumour  types  and  locations, 
including a cases of central nervous system (CNS) bleeding in a patients with hepatoma with 
occult  CNS  metastases  (see  section  4.43)  and  another  patient  who  developed  continuous 
oozing of blood from a thigh sarcoma with necrosis. 
The  incidence  of  CNS  bleeding  in  patients  with  untreated  CNS  metastases  receiving 
bevacizumab  has  not  been  prospectively  evaluated  in  randomised  clinical  studies.  In  an 
exploratory retrospective analysis of data from 13 completed randomised trials in patients with 
various  tumour  types,  3 patients  out  of  91  (3.3%)  with  brain  metastases  experienced  CNS 
bleeding (all Grade 4) when treated with bevacizumab, compared to 1 case (Grade 5) out of 96 
patients (1%) that were not exposed to bevacizumab. In two ongoing studies in patients with 
treated brain metastases, one case of Grade 2 CNS haemorrhage was reported in 83 subjects 
treated with bevacizumab (1.2%) at the time of interim safety analysis. 
Across  all  clinical  trials,  mucocutaneous  haemorrhage  has  been  seen  in  20%  -  40%  of 
Avastin-treated patients. These were most commonly NCI-CTC Grade 1 epistaxis that lasted 
less than 5 minutes, resolved without medical intervention and did not require any changes in 
the  Avastin  treatment  regimen.  Clinical  safety  data  suggest  that  the  incidence  of  minor 
mucocutaneous haemorrhage (e.g. epistaxis) may be dose-dependent.  
There  have  also  been  less  common  events  of  minor  mucocutaneous  haemorrhage  in  other 
locations, such as gingival bleeding or vaginal bleeding. 
Please  note  that  the  historical  information  on  the  case  of  continuous  blood  oozing  from  a  thigh 
sarcoma  has  been  deleted,  since  the  rest  of  the  text  pertaining  to  tumour-associated  haemorrhage 
provides  an  all-encompassing  information  on  such  occurrences  with  bevacizumab  use,  and  does  not 
necessitate specific descriptions of individual observations.  
Changes, associated with the removal of contraindication in patients with untreated CNS metastases, 
have also been made to the Patient Information Leaflet (Annex III).  
With the provision of the Drug Safety Report, reviewing the risk of intracranial bleeding in patients 
with CNS metastases, Roche considers that the following post-approval commitment (made at the time 
of  the  original  MAA  approval)  is  also  addressed;  FUM026:  To  explore  the  question  of  bleeding  in 
patients with CNS metastases. 
Discussion 
The available data provides adequate reassurance that the risk of CNS bleeding in patients with brain 
metastases  is  not  unduly  increased  with  the  use  of  bevacizumab  and,  thus,  supports  the  proposed 
revisions  to  the  SmPC-  the  downgrading  of  the  contraindication  for  patients  with  untreated  CNS 
metastases  to  the  proposed  new  Warnings  and  Precautions  statement,  as  well  as  describing  the 
available safety data in the Section 4.8, Undesirable Effects. 
It is also noted that currently the assessment of the extension of indication to include the treatment of 
malignant  gliomas.  High  grade  malignant  gliomas  are  highly  vascularised,  therefore  any  potential 
propensity  of  bevacizumab  to  cause  CNS  bleeding  would  have  been  particularly  evident  in  these 
patients. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  is  no  biological  or  pharmacological  rationale  to  suspect  that  the  incremental  benefit  derived 
from bevacizumab would be any different in patients with brain metastases, than those without. And 
whilst it is acknowledged that the prognosis and performance status of patients with CNS metastases 
could  be  inherently  worse  than  that  of  patients  without  brain  metastases,  this  does  not  preclude  an 
incremental benefit to these patients from bevacizumab-treatment. 
Bevacizumab has not been contraindicated in the USA for use in patients with CNS metastases. It has 
been  on  the  US  market  since  February  2004,  and,  with  extended  use  in  a  large  number  of  patients, 
there have been no indications that patients with brain metastases are unduly exposed to a risk of CNS 
bleeding. The spontaneous safety reports on MAH’s safety database also include all the reports from 
the USA, and do not provide any indication of disproportionately increased risk.  
There is a non-comparative, non-randomized, open-label Phase II trial, being conducted by Roche in 
France  (ML  21823),  assessing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  bevacizumab  combined  with  first-line 
paclitaxel/carboplatin  or  second-line  erlotinib  in  non-squamous  NSCLC  patients  with  asymptomatic 
brain  metastasis.  The  study  aims  to  recruit  66  patients  to  the  first-line  carboplatin/paclitaxel  + 
bevacizumab arm, and 49 patients to the second-line erlontinib + bevacizumab arm. The first results 
from this study are expected in 2012 (subject to recruitment rate). 
The  MAH  commits  to  provide  the  results  of  this  study,  when  available,  to  the  CHMP  as  a  post-
approval commitment. However, in the MAH’s opinion, the currently available data already provide 
sufficient  rationale  to  justify  replacing  the  current  contraindication  with  the  proposed  Warnings  and 
Precautions statement and, thus, making bevacizumab available to this patient population. 
These changes are acceptable in view of the now extensive experience with Avastin in patients with 
brain metastases. The risk of bleeding in patients with brain metastases does not seem to be increased 
to an extent which warrants a contraindication. 
Update of section 5.1 “ Pharmacodynamic Properties” 
The MAH proposes to make the following changes to Section 5.1:  
o 
o 
to include the results of the final overall survival analysis from BO17704 study 
to  include  the  results  of  the  retrospective  independent  radiological  review  of  tumour 
assessments from BO17705 study  
Update To Description Of Efficacy Results From Study BO17704 
BO17704 study was submitted as part of a Type II Variation application to register new indication for 
first-line treatment of unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer, other 
than predominantly squamous cell histology, in combination with platinum-containing chemotherapy 
(procedure number EMEA/H/C/582/II/009, Commission Decision dated 21 August 2007). At the time 
of the approval the following commitment was made by Roche: 
Provision of Overall Survival Data from Study BO17704 
The MAH commits to provide a survival update report for study BO17704, and if appropriate, 
submit a Type II variation to update the SmPC to reflect the overall survival analysis by 15 
November 2008. 
To  fulfil  this  post-approval  commitment,  Roche  provides  a  Clinical  Study  Report  Addendum  for 
BO17704  study  and  also proposes  to  include  the  following  information  in  section 5.1 of  the  SmPC, 
describing the overall survival analysis results from BO17704 (deleted text in strikethrough, new text 
– underlined): 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study BO17704 was a randomised, double-blind phase III study of Avastin in addition to cisplatin and 
gemcitabine  versus  placebo,  cisplatin  and  gemcitabine  in  patients  with  locally  advanced  (stage  IIIb 
with  supraclavicular  lymph  node  metastases  or  with  malignant  pleural  or  pericardial  effusion), 
metastatic or recurrent non-squamous NSCLC, who had not received prior chemotherapy. The primary 
endpoint was progression free survival (PFS), secondary endpoints for the study included the duration 
of overall survival. 
Patients were randomised to platinum-based chemotherapy, cisplatin 80 mg/m2 i.v. infusion on day 1 
and gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 i.v. infusion on days 1 and 8 of every 3-week cycle for up to 6 cycles 
(CG) with placebo or CG with Avastin at a dose of 7.5 or 15 mg/kg IV infusion day 1 of every 3-week 
cycle. In the Avastin-containing arms, patients could receive Avastin as a single-agent every 3 weeks 
until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Study results show that 94% (277 / 296) of eligible 
patients  went  on  to  receive  single  agent  bevacizumab  at  cycle  7.  A  high  proportion  of  patients 
(approximately  62%)  went  on  to  receive  a  variety  of  non-protocol  specified  anti-cancer  therapies, 
which may have impacted the analysis of overall survival. 
The efficacy results are presented in Table 10 of the SPC. 
Table 10 
Efficacy results for study BO17704  
Cisplatin/Gemcitabine 
+ placebo 
347 
Cisplatin/Gemcitabine 
Avastin
+ 
7.5 mg/kg q 3 weeks 
345 
Cisplatin/Gemcitabine
Avastin
+ 
15 mg/kg q 3 weeks 
351 
of 
Number 
Patients 
Progression-Free 
Survival 
Median (months) 
Hazard ratio 
6.1 
Best 
Overall 
Response Rate a 
20.1% 
6.7 
(p = 0.0026) 
0.75 
[0.62;0.91] 
34.1% 
(p< 0.0001) 
6.5 
(p = 0.0301) 
0.82 
[0.68;0.98] 
30.4% 
 (p=0.0023) 
a  
patients with measurable disease at baseline 
13.1 
Overall Survival 
Median 
(months) 
Hazard 
ratio 
13.6 
(p = 0.4203) 
0.93 
[0.78; 1.11] 
13.4 
(p = 0.7613) 
1.03 
[0.86, 1.23] 
With  the  provision  of  the  BO17704  CSR  addendum  and  the  inclusion  of  information  on  overall 
survival  results  from  this  study  in  the  SmPC,  the  relevant  post-approval  commitment  should  be 
considered fulfilled.  
Discussion  
It is correct to include the results of the analysis of overall survival in this pivotal trial. There is no 
significant  difference  in  overall  survival  between  patients  who  did  and  patients  who  did  not  receive 
Avastin. This may partly be due to other treatments once a relapse had occurred.  
Update to description of efficacy results from study BO17705 
BO17705 study was submitted as part of a Type II Variation application to register new indication for 
first-line treatment of advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer in combination with interferon-alfa-
2a (procedure number EMEA/H/C/582/II/015). At the time of the approval the following commitment 
was made by Roche: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical 2: Perform an independent retrospective review of the tumour assessments done in 
study  BO17705  with  the  objective  to  collect  all  images  from  all  patients  enrolled  in  the 
study: 
To  fulfil  this  post-approval  commitment,  Roche  submitted  a  Clinical  Study  Report  Addendum  for 
BO17705 study, with the results of the independent radiological review of tumour assessments, to the 
CHMP  on  3  October  2008.  The  same  CSR  addendum  is  included  in  this  application,  to  support  the 
proposed revisions to the SmPC.  
A retrospective tumor assessments performed by an independent review committee (IRC) support the 
investigator-assessed PFS data (see table below): 
•  The median PFS in both treatment arms (10.4 months in the Avastin + IFN arm vs. 5.5 months 
in the Placebo+ IFN arm) is consistent with the investigator-assessed results (10.2 months in 
the Avastin + IFN arm vs. 5.4 months in the Placebo+ IFN arm).  
•  The concordance between the IRC and investigator assessment in PFS event status was 74.4% 
in the Pl + IFN arm and 72.6% in the Avastin + IFN arm.  
•  The  increase  in  the  duration  of  PFS  in  the  Avastin + IFN  arm,  as  assessed  by  IRC,  is 
significant  (stratified  HR  0.571,  p  value < 0.0001),  confirming  the  analysis  of  investigator 
assessed data (unstratified HR 0.63, p value <0.0001). 
Investigator assessment 
IFN + 
Placebo 
322 
IFN + 
Bevacizumab 
327 
PFS Assessed by IRC 
(IRC Population) 
IFN + 
Bevacizumab 
288 
IFN + 
Placebo 
281 
Number of Patients  
Progression-Free Survival 
     Median (months) 
     Hazard ratio  
Objective Response Rate (%) in Patients with Measurable Disease  
Number of Patients  
Response rate 
0.63a (p-value < 0.0001) 
306 
31.4 % 
289 
12.8 % 
10.2 
5.4 
a - unstratified analysis    
b - stratified analysis  
(p-value < 0.0001) 
5.5 
10.4 
0.571b  (p-value < 0.0001) 
220 
12.3% 
226 
31.4% 
(p-value < 0.0001) 
Accordingly,  Roche  proposes  to  include  the  following  information  in  section  5.1  of  the  SmPC, 
describing efficacy results from BO17705 (deleted text in strikethrough, new text – underlined): 
Avastin in Combination with Interferon alfa-2a for the First-Line Treatment of Advance and/ or 
Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer (BO17705) 
……… 
At the data cut-off, 505 progression events had occurred, 111 patients remained on treatment, 287 had 
discontinued (discontinuations of trial treatment due to AEs were 12% with IFN alfa-2a vs. 28% with 
IFN  alfa-2a  +Avastin),  and  251  died.  Ninety  seven  (97)  patients  in  the  IFN  alfa-2a  arm  and  131 
patients in the Avastin arm reduced the dose of IFN alfa-2a from 9 MIU to either 6 or 3 MIU three 
times a week as pre-specified in the protocol. Dose-reduction of IFN alfa-2a did not appear to affect 
the efficacy of the combination of Avastin and IFN alfa-2a based on PFS event free rates over time, as 
shown by a sub-group analysis. The 131 patients in the Avastin + IFN alfa-2a arm who reduced and 
maintained the IFN alfa-2a dose at 6 or 3 MIU during the study, exhibited at 6, 12 and 18 months PFS 
event free rates of 73, 52 and 21% respectively, as compared to 61, 43 and 17% in the total population 
of  patients  receiving  Avastin  +  IFN  alfa-2a.  The  addition  of  Avastin  to  IFN  alfa-2a  significantly 
increased PFS and objective tumour response rate (see Table 11). Investigator-assessed  median PFS 
was 10.2 months for Avastin plus IFN-alfa-2a, and 5.4 months for placebo plus IFN-alfa-2a (see Table 
11).  An  independent  review  of  progression  and  response  assessments  confirmed  the  investigator-
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
assessed  PFS  and  ORR  results.  The  overall  survival  (OS)  data  were  not  mature  at  the  time  of  the 
interim final PFS analysis.  
With the provision of the BO17705 CSR addendum and the inclusion of information on independent 
review  of  efficacy  outcomes  in  this  study  in  the  SmPC,  Roche  considers  the  related  post-approval 
commitment fulfilled.  
Discussion 
The assessment of FUM045 was circulated 16 December for an opinion at the January 09 CHMP. The 
commitment was considered fulfilled. As for the introduced changes to the SPC there are no further 
comments.  
Changes To Package Leaflet 
In line with the proposed removal of contraindication in patients with untreated CNS metastases, the 
relevant section of the Package Insert has also been updated, as follows (deleted text in strikethrough):   
Proposed text: 
2. 
BEFORE YOU USE AVASTIN 
Do not use Avastin if: 
•  you are allergic (hypersensitive) to bevacizumab or to any of the other ingredients of 
Avastin. 
•  you are allergic (hypersensitive) to Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell products or to other 
recombinant human or humanised antibodies. 
•  you have cancer in your brain which has not been treated. 
•  you are pregnant. 
2. 
CONCLUSION 
On 19 February 2009 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
