 SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Avastin  contains  bevacizumab,  a  recombinant  humanised  monoclonal  antibody  produced  by  DNA 
technology.  The  applicant  sought  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Avastin  in  combination  with  5-
fluorouracil/folinic  acid  containing  regimens  for  the  first-line  treatment  of  patients  with  metastatic 
carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum.  The  CHMP  considered  that  a  positive  benefit  risk  had  only  been 
demonstrated 
intravenous  5-
fluorouracil/folinic acid/irinotecan. The scientific discussion in this report focuses on this indication. 
intravenous  5-fluorouracil/folinic  acid  or 
in  combination  with 
Colorectal cancer 
Cancer of the colon and rectum (CRC) constitutes a major public health problem and is more prevalent 
in  Western  countries  where  the  incidence  is  nearly  double  that  of  developing  countries  [1].  There,  it 
affects about one of twenty humans and ranks second amongst the most common malignancies in both 
men  and  women,  with  about  334,000  new  cases  diagnosed  every  year,  distributed  almost  evenly 
between the sexes [2]. Deaths from  cancers of the colon and rectum rank second (189,000) after lung 
cancer. Approximately 30% of all patients with CRC have metastatic disease at diagnosis, and 50% of 
early-stage  patients  will eventually develop metastatic or advanced disease [3]. The prognosis for this 
patient population is poor. In Europe, 5-year relative survival for patients diagnosed with cancer of the 
colon or rectum during 1985–1989 was 48% for patients with colon cancer and 44% for patients with 
cancer  of  the  rectum.  Despite  the  recent  addition  of  new  therapeutic  agents,  efficacy  remains 
unsatisfactory. 
Intravenous 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid 
Since its introduction by Heidelberger in 1957, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has been the standard agent used 
in the therapy of CRC, and is the benchmark against which all other therapy is measured. These agents 
have  been  developed  in  many  different  schedules  of  administration.  Modulation  of  5-FU  anticancer 
effects with folinic acid (FA) has become one of the standard treatment regimens for metastatic colon 
cancer  [4]. In a meta-analysis involving 2751 patients with advanced CRC from 18 randomised trials 
comparing 5-FU/FA with 5-FU alone, the addition of FA conferred a doubling in response rates (23% 
vs. 12%, p<0.0001) with a small but statistically significant improvement in 1-year survival (48% vs. 
43%,  p=0.003)  [5].  In  North  America,  two  FA-modulated  5-FU  regimens  are  most  commonly 
employed,  the  Mayo  regimen  (5-FU  425  mg/m2  daily  and  FA  20  mg/m2  daily  administered  for  five 
consecutive  days,  repeated  every  4  weeks  for  two  cycles  and  then  every  5  weeks  thereafter)  and  the 
Roswell  Park  regimen  (5-FU  500 mg/m2  and  high-dose  FA  500  mg/m2  administered  weekly  for  six 
consecutive weeks and repeated every 8 weeks). Both regimens are deemed to be of equivalent efficacy 
[6] and, until recently, were considered to represent the standard of care for the first-line treatment of 
patients with metastatic CRC. The Roswell Park weekly schedule of 5-FU/FA is better tolerated by the 
majority of patients [7]. 
5-FU has a short plasma half-life and its cytotoxicity is S-phase dependent, prompting the evaluation of 
a  prolonged  infusion  schedule  [8].  A  pooled  analysis  of  1219  patients  from  six  randomised  trials 
comparing  continuous  infusion  with  bolus  administration  of  5-FU  reported  a  significantly  higher 
response rate (22% vs. 14%, p=0.0002) and a modest improvement in survival (median 12.1 months vs. 
11.3 months, p=0.04) in patients assigned to continuous infusion of 5-FU [9]. The toxicity profile for 
the  infusional  5-FU  regimen  differed  from  that  of  bolus  5-FU,  in  that  there  was  less  haematological 
toxicity  (4%  vs.  31%),  but  more  cases  of  hand-foot-syndrome  (34%  vs.  13%).  The  incidence  of 
diarrhoea,  mucositis  and  nausea  did  not  differ.  In  a  subgroup  analysis,  the  benefit  of  a  continuous 
infusion  over  bolus  5-FU  was  not  apparent  in  studies  of  biomodulation  of  5-FU  by FA, although the 
power for such an analysis was limited.  
Based on a randomised study that involved 433 assessable patients with advanced colorectal cancer, the 
bimonthly regimen of infusional 5-FU/FA (de Gramont regimen) was reported in 1997 to be an effective 
and  less  toxic  alternative  to  the  standard  monthly  regimen  (Mayo  Clinic  regimen)  [10].  The  response 
1/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rate,  determined  in  348  patients  with  measurable  disease  (448  patients  in  total  were  randomised  to 
receive treatment), was 32.6% vs 14.4% and the time to progression was 27.6 vs 22 weeks for the de 
Gramont and the Mayo regimens, respectively. However, the trial did not meet its primary objective of 
superiority in survival suggesting that the primary advantage of the infusional 5-FU schedules over the 
bolus schedules to be an improved tolerability profile. 
Irinotecan and oxaliplatin  
Irinotecan  was  approved  for  use  in  first-line  treatment  of  metastatic  CRC  in  European  countries  in 
1999.    Irinotecan  in  combination  with  5-FU/FA  has  become  a  new  standard  for  chemotherapy-naïve 
patients with metastatic CRC in Europe following the results of two separate randomised trials showing 
an  improved  response  rate  and  survival  for  patients treated with the addition of irinotecan over either 
bolus [11] or infusional 5-FU [12]. The overall survival with irinotecan plus bolus 5-FU [11] was 15-
20% lower as  compared to the corresponding arms of the study using irinotecan plus infusional 5-FU 
reported  by  Douillard et al. [12]. However,  the response rates observed were virtually identical in the 
two  trials:  21%  and  23%,  respectively,  in  the  control  arms  and  39%  and  35%,  respectively,  in  the 
experimental arms. Similarly, the time to progression (TTP) was also identical between the respective 
arms  of  the  two  trials.  Another  factor  that  may  have  contributed  to  this  was  the  availability  of 
oxaliplatin as a second line chemotherapy for patients in the Douillard study but not for patients in the 
Saltz  study  [12,  13].  Infusional  5-FU  combined  with  irinotecan is  widely  used  in  Europe  rather  than 
bolus. The infused schedules of 5-FU have in general a better tolerability than bolus 5-FU, in particular, 
such regimens are associated with reduced myelosuppression, stomatitis and diarrhoea. 
The  results  of  a  randomised  trial  of  oxaliplatin  added  to  infusional  5-FU/FA  (FOLFOX4)  eventually 
established oxaliplatin as another agent for first-line treatment of CRC. At a median follow-up of 27.7 
months,  the  response  rate  and  progression-free  survival  favoured  the  FOLFOX4  combination  [14]. 
Although  the  median  survival  was  longer  for  those  treated  with  FOLFOX4  (16.2  vs.  14.7  months), 
statistical significance was not reached for this endpoint. A survival advantage for FOLFOX4 over IFL 
has been confirmed in a three arm NCCTG-led trial (N9741) of patients with advanced CRC randomly 
assigned to IFL, FOLFOX4, or a combination of irinotecan plus oxaliplatin [15]. FOLFOX4 compared 
with  IFL  was  associated  with  a  better  response  rate  (45%  vs.  31%,  p=0.002),  a  similar  time  to 
treatment  failure  (~ 6  months,  p=0.80)  but  an  improved  survival  (19.5  vs.  14.8  months,  p=0.0001). 
Patients in the FOLFOX arm had access to irinotecan in this trial (52% of patients in the FOLFOX4 
arm  received  second-line  irinotecan)  which  has  been  demonstrated  to  provide  survival  benefit  as  a 
second-line regimen whereas patients in the IFL arm did not have ready access to oxaliplatin as it was 
not  approved  in  the  US  (17%  of  patients  in  IFL  arm  received  second-line  oxaliplatin).  The  survival 
benefit seen might, in part, have reflected the effect of three drugs vs. two drugs. A randomised study in 
226 patients reported by Tournigand et al. suggested similar efficacy of the two first-line line regimens 
FOLFOX4 and FOLFIRI, with a TTP of 8.1 and 8.5 months and an overall survival of 21.5 and 20.4 
months,  respectively  [16].  In  summary,  FOLFOX4 has been considered as a safe and active first-line 
line regimen in metastatic CRC; FOLFIRI and FOLFOX4 have generally been considered comparable 
with respect to efficacy, with different safety profiles.  
Oral fluoropyrimidines  
Two oral fluoropyrimidines have been approved in Europe: tegafur (in combination with uracil) (UFT) 
and capecitabine [17, 18]. UFT is usually administered with oral FA. In four large randomised studies, 
these oral fluoropyrimidines have shown similar efficacy (overall survival), an improved safety profile 
and convenience advantages compared to intravenous bolus 5-FU [18-20]. Several Phase II trials have 
explore the use of oral fluoropyrimidines in combination with irinotecan [21-24], or oxaliplatin [25, 26].  
About the product 
Avastin  contains  the  antineoplastic  agent  bevacizumab  (ATC  code:  L01XC07),  a  recombinant 
humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (93% human, 7% murine sequences) that binds with high affinity 
to human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Bevacizumab was generated by humanization of 
the murine parent antibody A4.6.1 [27]. 
Page 2/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Tumour  growth  beyond  a  microscopic  size  has  been  shown  to  depend  on  angiogenesis  [28,  29].  A 
variety of positive angiogenic factors, including VEGF have been identified. VEGF is a major regulator 
of angiogenesis during normal and pathological processes, including that associated with tumour growth 
[30]. There is a very low or undetectable expression of the VEGF receptors in most normal tissues (with 
exception  of  renal  glomeruli),  whereas  VEGF  is  upregulated  in  most  human  tumour  types  [31,  32], 
including gastrointestinal tumours [33, 34]. VEGF expression is associated with tumour progression or 
patient survival in a variety of human cancers, including gastrointestinal tumours [35-39].  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
the  active 
ingredient  of  Avastin, 
Bevacizumab, 
is  a  recombinant  humanised  monoclonal 
immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) antibody (93% human, 7% murine sequences - molecular weight 149 kDa) 
that  selectively  binds  with  high  affinity  to  all  isoforms  of  human  vascular  endothelial  growth  factor 
(VEGF) and neutralises VEGF’s biologic activity through a steric blocking of the binding of VEGF to 
its  receptors  Flt-1  (VEGFR-1)  and  KDR  (VEGFR-2)  on  the  surface  of  endothelial  cells.  Receptors 
activation  normally  induces  their  tyrosine  phosporylation  and  the  subsequent  series  of  signal 
transduction events elicit mitogenic and pro-survival activity signals for the vascular endothelial cells. 
Since  there  is  a  very  low  or  undetectable  expression of VEGF receptors in most normal tissues (with 
exception  of  renal  glomeruli)  but  a  significant  up-regulation  in  the  vasculature  of  many  tumours 
(including  colorectal  cancer),  the  neutralisation  of  VEGF  by  bevacizumab  provides  the  rationale  a 
relative  specific  inhibition  of  the  tumour  angiogenesis  and  thereby  inhibition  of  tumour  growth  and 
metastasising. 
Composition 
Avastin  is  provided  as  a  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  in  a  single-use  vial,  which  contains  a 
nominal  amount  of  either  100  mg  of  bevacizumab  in  4  ml  or  400  mg  of  bevacizumab  in  16  ml 
(concentration  of  25  mg/ml).  Bevacizumab  is  formulated  with  51  mM  sodium  phosphate  pH  6.2,  60 
mg/ml  α,α-trehalose  dihydrate  and  0.04%  polysorbate  20.  The  drug  product  is  a  clear  to  slightly 
opalescent,  colourless  to  pale  brown  sterile  liquid  solution  that  has  to  be  diluted  in  0.9  %  sodium 
chloride solution prior to administration. 
Studies  were  conducted  to  determine  the  amount  of  overfill  required  to  produce  the  4  ml  and  16  ml 
nominal  fill  volumes  for  drug  product  vials.  For  the  100  mg  vial,  a  4.30  ml fill containing 107.5 mg 
bevacizumab (7,5% overfill) achieves delivery of 100 mg bevacizumab. For the 400 mg vial, a 16.28 ml 
fill containing 407 mg bevacizumab (1,75% overfill) achieves a delivery of 400 mg bevacizumab. The 
overfill requirement is due to the dead volume in the vial and to the syringe used to remove the solution 
from the vial. 
The  vial  and  stopper  components  comply  with  Ph. Eur.  requirements.  The  container-closure  system 
consists of a 5 ml or 20 ml Type I borosilicate glass vial, butyl rubber stoppers and an aluminum seal 
fitted with a plastic flip-off cap. 
Drug Substance 
Nomenclature 
INN Name:  
Compendial name:  
Chemical name:  
USAN/BAN/JAN Name:  
Laboratory Code:  
CAS Registry Number:  
Other Names:    
bevacizumab 
Not applicable 
Recombinant humanised monoclonal antibody to VEGF 
Bevacizumab 
RO487-6646 
216974-75-3 
rhuMAb VEGF, anti-VEGF 
Description of the Drug Substance 
Page 3/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bevacizumab is a humanised form of a murine monoclonal antibody containing human constant region 
sequences  and  murine  light  and  heavy  chain  Complementarity  Determining  Region  (CDR)  sequences. 
The human framework contributes to 93% of the overall protein sequence. 
κ
Bevacizumab is a full-length IgG1
 isotype antibody composed of two identical light chains (214 amino 
acid residues) and two heavy chains (453 residues) with a total molecular weight of      149 kDa. The 
heavy  chains  demonstrate  C-terminal  heterogeneity  (lysine  variants)  and  also  contain  one  N-linked 
glycosylation site at asparagine 303. The oligosaccharides are of complex biantennary structures with a 
core  fucose  and  with  the  two  branches  terminating  mainly  with  zero  (G0),  one (G1)  or  two 
(G2) galactose  residues.  The  G0  glycoform  predominates  at  approximately  80  %  relative  abundance. 
Each  light  chain  is  covalently  coupled  through  a  disulfide  bond  at  cysteine  214  to  a  heavy  chain  at 
cysteine  226.  The  two  heavy  chains  are  covalently  coupled  to  each  other  through  two  inter-chain 
disulfide bonds, which is consistent with the structure of a human IgG1. 
• 
Manufacture 
Bevacizumab drug substance is manufactured at Genentech South San Francisco (SSF) and Genentech 
Vacaville (VV), which is an additional site. Bevacizumab manufactured at VV is transported to SSF for 
filling. These facilities are operated in current GMP compliance, with standard operating procedures in 
place  to  describe  all  procedures  and  controls.  Both  sites  were  last  inspected  in  August  2003  by  the 
German competent authorities and were found to be in compliance with GMP rules. 
Development genetics 
Bevacizumab was originally derived from a murine monoclonal antibody (muMAb A4.6.1), which was 
produced at Genentech using hybridomas generated from mice immunised with the 165-residue- form of 
recombinant human vascular endothelial growth factor (rhuVEGF165) conjugated with keyhole limpet 
hemocyanin.   
The humanisation of the A4.6.1 antibody involved insertion of the six CDRs of A4.6.1, in place of those 
of  a  selected  human  antibody  Fab  framework  (pEMX1),  which  has  a  consensus  human  kappa 
subgroup I light chain (domains VL-CL) and a truncated human subgroup III immunoglobulin gamma 
(IgG1)  heavy  chain  (domains  VH-CH1).    A  series  of  framework  residue  substitutions  were  made  to 
produce  the  final  humanised  version,  Fab-12,  which  contains  eight  substitutions  of  the  human 
framework outside of the CDRs.  The VH and VL domains of Fab-12 were combined with human IgG1 
constant domains CH1-CH2-CH3 and CL, respectively, to produce bevacizumab. 
The  expression  plasmid  pSVID5.ID.LLnspeV.xvegf36HC.LC  encoding  bevacizumab  was  introduced 
into  Chinese  hamster  ovary  parental  cells  CHO DP-12  by  lipofection  and  cells  were  selected  in  the 
presence  of  increasing  concentrations  of  methotrexate  (MTX).  Isolates  were  selected  for  secretion  of 
active  bevacizumab.  Isolated  subclone  107N  was  used  for  the  production  of  phase  I  and  phase  II 
clinical  materials  and  as  the  starting  point  for  the  development  of the more highly productive G7 cell 
line,  which  was  used for  the  production  of phase III clinical  materials and which will be used for the 
production of drug substance intended for marketing. 
The  generation  of  A4.6.1  and  its  subsequent  humanisation  have  been  adequately  described  in  the 
application  and  in  the  scientific  literature.  The  construction  of  the  expression  plasmid  has  been 
sufficiently described and an annotated sequence map has been submitted. 
Cell bank system 
From the high yield producing G7 clone, a serum-free pre-bank (No. 2036) was established and used to 
prepare a two-tiered cell bank system of master cell bank (MCB) and working cell banks (WCBs).  
The  MCB (No. 2055)  and  WCBs  (Nos. 2130,  2206,  and 2363) were prepared in accordance with the 
current Good Manufacturing Practices, using procedures defined in standard operating procedures, and 
standard  methods  for  preservation  of  mammalian  cells  employing  carboxymethylcellulose  and 
dimethylsulfoxide as cryopreservatives. 
Page 4/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Isoenzyme  analysis  of  MCB  No.  2055  and  WCB  Nos.  2206,  2130  and  2363  confirmed  the 
bevacizumab  cell  banks  as  being  of  Chinese  hamster  origin,  and  peptide  map  analysis  confirmed  the 
identity of the product produced by these cells as bevacizumab. 
Cell  banks  were  extensively  examined  for  the  presence  of  microbial  and  viral  contaminants  and  the 
endogenous retrovirus known to be present in CHO cell line. In addition, bevacizumab pre-harvest cell 
culture  fluids  from  end  of  production  runs  of  MCB  No.  2055,  WCB  No.  2130,  and  WCB No. 2363 
were examined for the presence of microbial and viral contaminants. This testing was performed using a 
battery  of  biochemical,  biological,  and  immunological  assays  known  to  detect  contamination  by 
bacterial,  fungal,  or  viral  agents  associated  with  mammalian  cell  culture.  All  cell  banks  and  end  of 
production  cells  were  shown  to  be  free  of  detectable  microbial  contaminants  despite  the  presence  of 
type-A  and  type-C  retroviral  particles  in  the  cell  line.  The  retrovirus-like  particles  present  are  non-
infectious and typical of the parental CHO cell line. Viral testing of the cell banks was in line with the 
relevant guidelines and was deemed satisfactory. 
The applicant does not plan to prepare a new MCB since the current MCB is large enough to prepare 
more than 100 WCBs.  
The applicant does anticipate producing additional WCBs using cells expanded by the spinner process 
currently in use or by a new cell banking bioreactor process, which enables the accumulation of a larger 
mass of cells. In the event that new WCBs are prepared using a new procedure, the first new WCB will 
also have to meet pre-approved acceptance criteria in order to ensure a comparable product quality and 
cell culture performance with the existing WCBs.  
The applicant committed that an application for a variation will be submitted in case of generation of a 
new WCB by any other protocol than the one approved with the Marketing Authorisation. 
Fermentation process 
The bevacizumab routine process for cell culture involves three stages: seed train, inoculum train, and 
the production culture, which is a fed-batch process at a 12000 L scale using CHO cells in suspension.  
Raw materials and reagents used during fermentation and purification are not derived from ruminants. 
All stages use serum-free, low-protein cell culture growth media containing recombinant human insulin. 
Three  ruminant-derived  materials  are  used  in  the  preparation  of  human  recombinant  insulin:  beef 
extract,  peptone  and  pepticase  (bovine  milk).  TSE  certificates  of  suitability  are  provided  for  peptone 
and beef extract (RO-CEP 2000-175-Rev 01 and RO-CEP 2000-181-Rev 01, respectively). The bovine 
milk is sourced from Australia, New Zealand and  USA, under the same conditions as milk for human 
consumption and is prepared without the use of other ruminant materials. 
Detailed and sufficient information has been provided on the composition, preparation and testing of the 
media used for fermentation. 
The  seed  train  is  a  continuous  long  term, 20 L culture of cells. This culture is used to start up many 
production cultures. In order to initiate a seed train, cells from WCB No. 2130 or WCB No. 2363 are 
used. MCB No. 2055 or WCB No. 2206 are also acceptable for manufacturing, but are not expected to 
be  used  for  routine  manufacturing  unless  the  ampoules  in  the  other  cell  banks  are depleted. The seed 
train is grown in selective medium with MTX. Cells are sub-cultivated (diluted) every 3 to 4 days. After 
a  prescribed  maximum  period  in  the  seed  train  culture,  the  inoculation  train  is  initiated.  The  non-
selective inoculum train (MTX-free medium) is used to expand the cell population for introduction into 
the  production  stage  and  to  reduce  the  carry  over  of  MTX  into  the  production  culture.  The  cell 
population  is expanded by serial sub-cultivation into vessels of increasing volumes (approximately 80 
L, 400 L, and 2000 L).  
After  a  prescribed  maximum  number  of  days  in  the  inoculum  train,  the  production  stage  is  initiated. 
Alternatively,  an  aliquot  of  cell  culture  fluid  may  be  left  in  the  original vessel  and  diluted  with  fresh 
medium to initiate another culture. This operation is termed a “solera”. It is performed to generate an 
additional inoculum train when necessary. 
The production culture is performed in a bioreactor of approximate working volume of 12000 L, using 
an  enriched non-selective production medium (MTX-free). The production culture is harvested after a 
Page 5/61 
EMEA 2005 

 
 
prescribed  number  of  days  after  inoculation.  The  total  allowed  time  in  non-selective  medium  and  the 
total cell age from MCB to harvest have been validated and defined in the application. The production 
cell culture fluid is separated from the cells by centrifugation and the secreted bevacizumab is recovered 
from the harvested cell culture fluid (HCCF). 
The  flow  chart  and  process  control  parameters  for  cell  culture  and  harvest  have  been  provided. 
Alternatives  to  the  routine  process  have been  clearly indicated  and justified and sufficient control and 
monitoring of the process is in place to ensure a defined and consistent quality of bevacizumab. 
Purification process 
One batch of HCCF is produced from each 12000 L cell culture production run and is used to purify 
and formulate a single batch of drug substance. 
The  drug  substance  purification  process  consists  of  four  steps:  protein  A  chromatography,  anion 
exchange chromatography (Q sepharose FF), cation exchange chromatography (CM sepharose FF) and 
ultrafiltration /diafiltration (UF/DF). 
Detailed  and  sufficient  information  on  the  bevacizumab  purification  process  has  been  provided, 
including  information  on  chromatographic  equipments,  buffers  and  solutions  and  column  operation 
parameters and conditions. The flow chart of the purification process has been submitted. 
An  affinity  column  is  the  first  chromatographic  step  in  the  bevacizumab  purification  process.  This 
column utilizes an immobilised protein A resin, which binds to bevacizumab in the HCCF with a high 
degree  of  specificity.  This  affinity  step  purifies  bevacizumab  mainly  with  respect  to  CHO  proteins 
(CHOP) and DNA. In order to inactivate potential viruses, the affinity pool is subjected to a validated 
virus  inactivation  process.  The  affinity  step  is  followed  by  an  anion  exchange  chromatographic  step 
which  is  designed  to  reduce  CHOP,  DNA,  protein A, and potential viruses. Under the  load and wash 
conditions employed, bevacizumab flows through the column. 
The  next  cation  exchange  chromatographic  step  is  designed  to  further  reduce the residual amounts of 
CHOP,  gentamicin  and  bevacizumab  aggregates.  In  order  to  inactivate  potential  viruses,  the  anion 
exchange  chromatographic  pool  is  subjected  to  a  validated  vius  inactivation  process.  Bevacizumab 
binds to the column under the load and wash conditions. 
Finally, a cation exchange pool is concentrated on an UF system. The pool is then diafiltered and further 
concentrated.  The  UF/DF  pool  is  then  removed  from  the  UF/DF  system  and  diluted  by  diafiltration 
buffer. 
Characterisation 
- Comparability from the SSF and VV manufacturing sites: 
Samples from  three conformance lots from the VV site, three lots from the SSF site and the reference 
material antivegf801-2 were analysed side-by-side using the release specification methods: peptide map, 
size-exclusion  chromatography  (SEC),  capillary  electrophoresis-SDS  (CE-SDS)  and  ion-exchange 
chromatography (IEC). The oligosaccharide distribution was evaluated by capillary electrophoresis with 
laser-induced fluorescence detection (CE-LIF) after release from the protein. 
Except for minor differences, good consistency within sites and between the two sites was shown. No 
differences  in  the  peptide  map  profiles  of  the  bevacizumab  samples  were  observed.  Molecular  size 
distribution by SEC showed that  the level of dimers, aggregates and fragments were consistent for all 
the  lots.  Glycan  occupancy  of  the  N-linked  site  was  shown  to  be  similar  in  all  the  lots  by  CE-SDS 
analysis.  Charge  heterogeneity  of 
the  bevacizumab  lots  was  examined  by  cation  exchange 
chromatography,  which  demonstrated  that  all  lots  had  consistent  charge  profiles.  Glycan  analysis  by 
CE-LIF confirmed that the VV and SSF lots had comparable neutral oligosaccharide profiles. 
-  7  lots  of  bevacizumab  were  characterised  and  compared:  1  lot  of  the  reference  standard  material 
(antivegf898-1)  produced  from  the  107N  cell  line  and  used  in  phase  II  clinical  studies,  1  lot  of  the 
reference standard material (antivegf801-2) used in phase III clinical studies, five qualification lots, all 
produced at a 12000 L scale from the G7 cell line. 
Page 6/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
The applicant has performed extensive and in general satisfying characterisation of bevacizumab with 
regard to physicochemical properties based on molecular weight, size and charge. The results confirm 
that  bevacizumab  has  the  covalent  structure,  post-translational  modifications  as  well  as  other 
characteristics of a human IgG1. 
Product-related  variants  have  been  characterised  to  a  great  extent  and  their  potency  have  been 
determined,  demonstrating  that  acidic  and  basic  variants  were  somewhat  reduced  in  activity.  The 
activity  of  aggregates  and  dimers  is  significantly  reduced,  while  other  variants  such  as  oxidised, 
glycated and deglycosylated materials are fully active.  
Minor  differences  among  the  materials  investigated  were  identified  in  C-terminal  heterogeneity, 
glycosylation pattern and charge heterogeneity but studies performed showed that these differences are 
unlikely  to  affect  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  product.  The  applicant  has  given  several  acceptable 
arguments  to  support  the  statement  that  the  measurement  of  the  galactose  distribution  in  the  drug 
substance as an indicator of process consistency is not necessary.  
Finally,  the  biological  and  immunological  properties  of  bevacizumab  have  been  investigated  and  the 
choice of bioassay is addressed. 
• 
Specifications 
Batch release results from a total of twenty full-scale batches are presented in the dossier. All results are 
consistent and within the specifications. 
Establishment of specifications is based on data from the twenty full-scale batches (12000 L)  and the 
statistically predicted capability of the manufacturing process with a tolerance interval of 95/99 applied 
to the manufacturing data.  
The potency assay carried out is an anti-proliferation bioassay based upon the ability of bevacizumab to 
inhibit  rhVEGF-induced  proliferation  of  Human  Umbilical  Vein  Endotheliae  Cells  (HUVEC).  It  is 
performed  in  micro-titre  plates  and  the  relative  number  of  viable  cells,  proportional  to  inhibition  of  
rhVEGF-induced HUVEC proliferation, is quantified by fluorescence.   This assay was chosen as drug 
substance  release  test  based  on  its  sensitivity  (ability  to  detect  significant  changes  in  the  activity), 
robustness, precision (RSD<10%) and accuracy (98-102%). 
All methods have been satisfactorily validated with regard to specificity, accuracy, precision, linearity, 
and  robustness.  Moreover,  the  ability  of  the  methods  to  detect  changes  in  samples  of  bevacizumab 
exposed to heat, intense light, oxidation and acidic and basic pH has been evaluated. 
The control tests proposed for the drug substance are considered appropriate to ensure sufficient quality 
with respect to identity, purity, quantity as well as general tests including tests for excipients. 
• 
Stability 
The proposed storage time of bevacizumab drug substance is 24 months when stored at − 20 °C ± 5 °C, 
45 days at 5 °C ± 3 °C and up to 5 freeze/thaw cycles. 
In order to support the proposed storage conditions, the stability of the drug substance was monitored at 
full-scale with material stored in a 120 L stainless steel tank and at small-scale in 55 ml stainless steel 
mini-tanks.  The stability was assessed using methods addressing the principal degradation pathways of 
bevacizumab  (aggregation  and  formation  of  charge-related  variants).  The  stability  of  drug  substance 
was tested under long-term conditions at − 20 °C ± 5 °C, accelerated conditions at 5 °C ± 3 °C and for 
stability  after  freeze/thaw  cycles  (stress  testing).  The  test  procedures  to  assess  the  stability  of 
bevacizumab  include  methods  to  determine  potency,  purity  and  physicochemical  changes.  The  results 
demonstrated that drug substance stored up to 24 months at − 20 °C ± 5 °C and for 57 days at 5 °C ± 3 
°C, including freeze/thaw cycles, showed no changes compared to the initial time point, except for COC 
(Clarity,  Opalescence  Coloration)  where  a  slight  intensification  of  colour  was  measured.  The  results 
from the supportive studies showed no changes outside of the variability of the assay. All results were 
within specifications. 
Page 7/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Drug Product  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  goal  was  to  develop  a  stable  liquid  intravenous  formulation.  Early  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicological  phase  I  and  early  phase  II  clinical  studies  were  conducted  with  a  liquid  formulation 
containing  10mg/ml  bevacizumab,  10  mM  histidine,  100  mg/ml  trehalose  dihydrate  and  0.02% 
polysorbate  20.  Late  phase  II  and  phase  III  trials  used  a  formulation  containing  51  mM  sodium 
phosphate,  60  mg/ml  trehalose  dihydrate  and  0.04%  polysorbate  20  (as  the  formulation  to-be-
marketed).  The  bevacizumab  concentration  was  increased  from  10  mg/ml  to  25  mg/ml  in  the  sodium 
phosphate formulation for use in the phase III trials.  
Selection  of  excipients  was  based  on  stability  screening  studies  using  different  buffer  systems..  A 
histidine buffer system at pH 5.5 was selected.  
Trehalose dihydrate was selected to adjust osmolality.  
Due  to  physical  instability  of  the  liquid  formulation  used  in  phase  I  and  phase  II  clinical  studies  the 
formulation  was  changed  by  increasing  the  pH  to  6.2,  changing  the  histidine  buffer  for  sodium 
phosphate,  increasing  the  ionic  strength  by  increasing  the  concentration  of  the  buffering  species, 
decreasing  the  trehalose  concentration  to  modify  the  osmolality,  and  increasing  the  polysorbate  20 
concentration. These changes resulted in a formulation that had acceptable stability at room temperature 
for shipping  and handling of the product. This formulation was used in phase II and phase III clinical 
trials. 
• 
Manufacture of the product 
All  manufacturing  operations  for  bevacizumab  drug  product  are  performed  by  Genentech  Inc.,  SSF. 
Secondary  packaging  and  labelling  are  performed  at  Hoffmann-La  Roche  Ltd,  Kaiseraugst, 
Switzerland. Quality testing and batch release is a responsibility of Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Grenzach-
Wyhlen, Germany. 
In the production of Avastin, the formulation step is performed as last step in the manufacturing process 
of the drug substance; no further formulation takes place during the manufacture of the drug product. 
A  drug  product  batch  is  defined  as  14  L  to  1372  L  of  bevacizumab  drug  substance  solution.  The 
minimum  batch  size  of  14  L  corresponds  to  3000  vials (100  mg/vial  presentation)  or  800  vials  (400 
mg/vial presentation) and the maximum batch size of 1372 L corresponds to 311,000 vials (100 mg/vial 
presentation) or 83,000 vials (400 mg/vial presentation). The batch formula for minimal and maximal 
batch sizes have been provided. 
The manufacturing process is adequately described . Briefly, prior to filtration, each 120 L and/or 300 
L tank is tested for bioburden. An acceptable action limit for bioburden has been set for the pre-sterile 
filtration  samples.  The  bulk  for  storage  is  prefiltered  (0.22  µ m)  and  sterile  filtered  (0.22  µm)  before 
filling.. The filtration takes place in a closed system with nitrogen. If necessary, the contents of multiple 
120  L  and/or  300  L  freeze/thaw  tanks  may  be  pooled  during  filtration  in  order  for the fill process to 
yield the required batch size. The resulting sterile-filtered bulk for fill may then be held at 2°C-8°C prior 
to filling.  
The sterile filtered bulk is aseptically transferred to the filling machine using sterile filtered nitrogen and 
steamed-in-place transfer lines. The product is filled into depyrogenated Type I glass vials, and a steam-
sterilised stopper is seated in each vial. The entire filling and stoppering operation is performed within 
the  Class  100  area  .  The  vials  are  capped  with  aluminium/plastic  flip-off  caps.  All  equipments  used 
during filling are sterilised. 
100% of filled vials are inspected.  
Reprocessing in the form of refiltration, in order to protect the product, may be necessary. The criteria 
for  reprocessing  have  been  defined  and  are  considered  acceptable.  Filtration  to  remove  contaminants, 
such as bioburden, outside of established limits, is not permitted. 
The following critical steps have been validated: 
Page 8/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
-  Sterile filtration with respect to microbial retention and product/filter compatibility and leachables. 
-  Holding steps for bulk for storage (including freeze/thaw cycles) and sterile filtered bulk. 
-  Steam sterilisation of the major equipment and container closure system. 
-  Media fills 
The  process  has  been  adequately  validated  and  stability  data  have  been  presented  to  support  the 
proposed storage conditions and times. For validation, 4 qualification lots (3 lots of 100 mg vials and 1 
of  400  mg  vials)  and  7  clinical  (supporting)  lots  have  been  produced.  All  results  were  in  compliance 
with the specifications and demonstrated quality of the product. 
• 
Product Specifications  
17 drug product batches were analysed to develop appropriate specifications. Drug substance and drug 
product  release  specifications  are  identical  for  molecular  size  distribution  (SEC),  bacterial  endotoxin, 
potency assay, protein concentration, extractable volume, pH and osmolality. 
The selected parameters have been adequately justified and are considered acceptable. Polysorbate 20 is 
added as surfactant but no test on the amount present in the drug product was performed. However, this 
is considered acceptable as a test for polysorbate 20 is performed on the drug substance. 
Batch analysis results confirmed the consistency of the drug product and showed that no new impurities 
are formed during manufacture and that the impurity profile of the drug product is comparable to that of 
the drug substance. 
All  methods  for  release  testing  of  the  drug  product  have  been  adequately  described  and  are  validated 
according to ICH guidelines. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability testing was conducted with 4 qualification lots (three 100 mg and one 400 mg batches) using 
validated analytical methods. Supporting data is presented for 7 clinical batches (three 100 mg and four 
1000  mg  batches).  The  proposed  expiry  date  for  the  400  mg  intermediate  vial  size  is  based  on 
bracketing of stability data obtained with the 100 mg and 1000 mg vials.  
Stability testing has been conducted under the following conditions: long-term stability (5 °C ± 3 °C), 
accelerated stability (30 °C), photostability, stability after reconstitution and during shipping. 
The investigated parameters for the shelf-life specifications are considered to be stability-indicating. 
The stability data show that no significant changes occur in the investigated parameters when stored at 
5°C for up to 24 months, except for the IEC assay where an decrease in main peak was observed. The 
decrease in main peak correlated with an increase in acidic and an increase in basic variants peaks. No 
new  species  were  observed  in  the  IEC  profile.  This  decrease  in  main  peak  is  not  correlated  to  any 
decrease in potency. All results remained within specifications. 
When stored at 30°C for 3 months, changes were observed for SEC, IEC and potency. An decrease in 
IEC  main  peak  was  observed,  which  was  correlated  with  up  to  6%  increase  in  basic  variants  and  an 
increase in acidic variant peaks. No new species were observed in the IEC chromatographic profile. An 
decrease  in  percent  monomer  was  observed  with  a  corresponding  increase  in  percentage  of  total 
aggregates.  Potency  was  observed  to  decrease  20-30%.  No  other  changes  in  stability  were  observed 
compared to the initial time point. All other results remained within specifications.  
Similar results were found for 100 mg, 400 mg and 1000 vials. 
Photostability  data  showed  that  degradation  occurs  when  the  drug  product  is  exposed  to  light. 
Therefore, the drug product should be protected from light and consequently the vials should be kept in 
the outer carton. 
The submitted stability data support the proposed shelf life of 24 months when stored at 5 °C ± 3 °C.  
With  respect  to  the  in-use  stability  of  the  drug  product,  chemical  and  physical  stability  has  been 
demonstrated for 48 hours at 2°C-30°C in 0.9% sodium chloride solution. From a microbiological point 
Page 9/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
of view, the product should be used immediately. Otherwise, in-use storage times and conditions are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C, unless dilution 
has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the  chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The information provided in the application demonstrated consistent batch-to-
batch production of Avastin, achieving a  defined quality for the drug substance and the drug product. 
The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance,  bevacizumab,  are  adequately  controlled  and 
validated.  Alternatives  to  the  routine  process  have  been  clearly  indicated  and  justified  and  sufficient 
control and monitoring of the process have been put in place to ensure a defined and consistent quality 
of bevacizumab. With regard to the manufacturing process validation, data at full-scale presented by the 
applicant support the initial conclusion that although the increase in cell age has some influence on the 
cell  culture  performance  (decrease  in  bevacizumab  titre  and  specific  productivity),  the  quality  of  the 
drug substance is not affected. The increase in the percentage of the G0 glycoform observed is minimal 
and does not affect the quality of the drug substance as well. The proposed cell age limit was therefore 
considered acceptable.  
The  drug  substance  has  been  well  characterised  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical  and  biological 
characteristics,  using  state-of-the-art  methods.  The  applicant  has  discussed  that  the  minor  differences 
observed  in  C-terminal  heterogeneity,  glycosylation  pattern  and  charge  heterogeneity  between  the 
materials investigated seem to be without influence on the safety and efficacy of Avastin.  
Appropriate drug substance specifications have been set and in general sufficiently justified.  
The specifications limits were established mainly on the basis of the manufacturing history, the statistic 
calculation of data as well as the physicochemical characterisation.  
The  proposed  storage  time  of  the  drug  substance  is  24  months  at  ≤  -20°C,  45  days  at  5°C±3°C. 
Updated stability data presented by the applicant to support this shelf life were considered satisfactory. 
Moreover,  the  applicant  provided  several  reasons  why  freeze/thaw  of  the  drug  substance  is  needed. 
They are mainly based on a desire for flexibility during production and are of common practice in the 
production  of  monoclonal  antibodies.  Sufficient  justification  to  support  the  use  of  freeze/thaw  cycles 
was provided by the applicant.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  has  been  sufficiently  described  and  validated.  The 
quality of the drug product is controlled by adequate test methods and specifications.  
The proposed shelf life of the drug product is 24 months at 2-8oC. With the response to the Day 120 
List of Questions, the applicant submitted additional results from an on-going long-term stability study 
in order to support this shelf life. 
The viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents (including TSE) have been sufficiently 
assured.  
The overall quality of Avastin has been adequately demonstrated, excepted for a number of points that 
the  applicant  has  committed  to  address  as  part  of  post-approval  follow-up  measures. It  includes  the 
submission  of  additional  information  relating  to  genetic  consistency  testing  to  further  support  the 
proposed in vitro cell age limit, information relating to batch-to-batch consistency with regard to charge 
variants  distribution,  to  the  IEC  specification  that  was  established  for  the  drug  substance  and  drug 
product.  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Bevacizumab  is  a  humanised  recombinant  IgG1  version of  the  murine  anti-human VEGF monoclonal 
antibody A4.6.1 (muMAb VEGF) [40]. A4.6.1 was humanised by site-directed mutagenesis of a human 
Page 10/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
IgG1  framework  [27].  Bevacizumab  consists  of  about  93%  human  and  7%  murine  protein  sequence, 
with the murine sequences comprising the complementarity determining region of the molecule. 
All  toxicology  studies  with  bevacizumab  were  conducted  according  to  GLP,  with  the  exception  of 
toxicology studies investigating anti-bevacizumab antibody responses in rats, potential for perturbation 
of  growth  plate  morphology  and  ovarian  function,  and  wound-healing,  coagulation and renal function 
studies.  
The  pharmacology  of  an  anti-VEGF  approach  was investigated primarily in murine xenograft models 
using  the  parent  murine  antibody  A4.6.1.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  bevacizumab  was  investigated  in 
species  where  the  antibody  is  expected  to  bind  to  and  neutralise  endogenous  VEGF,  i.e.,  cynomolgus 
monkeys [41] and rabbits (albeit with lower affinity than for human VEGF, see toxicology), and in mice 
and rats, where it is reported not to bind endogenous VEGF [42]. 
Pharmacology 
Native  VEGF  is  a  basic,  heparin-binding,  homodimeric  glycoprotein  of  45,000  daltons.  These 
properties  correspond  to  those  of  VEGF165,  the  predominant  VEGF  isoform.  The  human  VEGF  gene 
has  been  located  to  chromosome  6p21.3  and  is  organized  in  eight  exons  separated  by  seven  introns. 
Alternative splicing was shown to result in four major VEGF isoforms (VEGF121, VEGF165, VEGF189, 
and  VEGF206)  consisting  of  121,  165,  189,  and 206  amino  acids  following  signal  sequence  cleavage, 
respectively  [43-45].  Less  frequent  splice  variants  also  have  been  reported,  including  VEGF145  [46], 
VEGF183  [47],  and  VEGF165b  [48].  An  additional  level  of  regulation  of  VEGF  biological  activity  is 
provided by the proteolytic cleavage mechanism, including all VEGF isoforms, resulting in the VEGF110 
form [49]. 
VEGF  is  a  major  regulator  of  angiogenesis  during  normal  and  pathological  processes,  including  that 
associated  with  tumour  growth  (reviewed  in  [30,  50]).  VEGF  has  a  key  regulatory  function  during 
developmental  angiogenesis  [51,  52].  A  well-documented  in  vitro  activity  of  VEGF  is  the  ability  to 
promote growth of vascular endothelial cells (EC) derived from arteries, veins and lymphatics (reviewed 
in [32]), as well as certain non-endothelial cells (reviewed in [53]). VEGF was shown to be a survival 
factor for ECs, both in vitro and in vivo [54-57]. VEGF stimulated production of surfactant proteins by 
cultured type 2 pneumocytes [58]. VEGF induces vasodilatation in vitro [59], and is thought to play a 
role in inflammation due to its ability to induce vascular leakage [31, 60]. VEGF displays chemotactic 
effects on endothelial cells and increases expression of proteolytic enzymes in endothelial cells involved 
in  stromal  degradation.  VEGF  has  also  effects  on  bone  marrow–derived  cells,  promoting  monocyte 
activation  and  chemotaxis  [61].  VEGF enhanced  colony  formation  by  mature  subsets  of  granulocyte-
macrophage  and  erythroid  progenitor  cells  that  had  been  stimulated  with  a  colony  stimulating  factor 
[48].  VEGF  also  displays  immune  effects  via  inhibition  of  maturation  of  antigen-presenting  dendritic 
cells [62].  
VEGF binds two related recptor tyrosine kinases (RTK), named Flt-1 (VEGFR-1) [63, 64], KDR/Flk-1 
(VEGFR-2)  [65].  The  fms-like-tyrosine  kinase  Flt-4  (VEGFR-3)   is  a  member  of  the  same  family of 
RTKs but is not a receptor for VEGF,  binding instead to VEGFC and VEGFD8. In addition to these 
RTKs,  VEGF  interacts  with  a  family  of  coreceptors,  the neuropilins. Binding of VEGF to VEGFR-1 
and  VEGFR-2  induces  the  homodimerization  of  two  receptor  subunits,  which  in  turn  triggers 
autophosphorylation  of 
cytoplasm. 
Autophosphorylation  of  the  tyrosine  kinase  domains  subsequently  engages  a  series  of  specific  signal 
transduction events, ultimately regulating the various biological activities of VEGF on endothelial cells. 
Most  of  VEGF’s  mitogenic  and  survival  activity  appears  to  be  mediated  by  VEGFR-2,  including  the 
expression of the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and A1. Survival signaling by VEGFR-2 is mediated by 
the  PI3  kinase/Akt  pathway  [56].  VEGFR-2  was  also  shown  to  induce  other  signal  transduction 
pathways including phospholipase C gamma and mitogen-activated kinases MAPK p44/42 [66]. 
tyrosine  kinase  domains 
located  within 
their 
the 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
The  generation  of  muMAb  A4.6.1  using  the  recombinant  human  VEGF165  as  immunogen  and  its 
functional  characterization  have  been  described  [40].  A4.6.1  has  potent  VEGF  neutralizing  activities 
using  an  in  vitro  bovine  adrenal  cortex  endothelial  cell  proliferation  assay,  in  in  vivo  vascular 
Page 11/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
permeability  assay  and  an  in  vivo  embryonic  chicken  angiogenesis  assay  [40].  The  pharmacological 
activities  of  bevacizumab  were  evaluated  in  a  number  of  in  vitro  assays  using  recombinant  human 
VEGF. Bevacizumab and A4.6.1 were compared for their ability to inhibit bovine capillary endothelial 
cell proliferation in response to VEGF (Presta et al 1997). The two MAbs were essentially equivalent, 
both in potency and efficacy. The ED50s were, respectively, 50 ± 5 and 48 ± 8 ng/ml. 90 % inhibition 
was  achieved  at  500  ng/ml  for  both  antibodies.Bevacizumab  and  A4.6.1  are  pharmacologically 
equivalent when tested with human cells, human tissues or human VEGF isoforms [27, 40].  
Studies  of  crystal  structures  and  mutational  analysis  have  shown  that  the  VEGF  residues  critical  for 
antibody-binding  are  distinct  from  those important for the high-affinity receptor binding but  occupy a 
common region on VEGF, suggesting that the inhibitory effect of the antibody is by steric blocking of 
VEGF-receptor interaction [67]. 
A4.6.1 inhibited the growth of human rhabdomyosarcoma, glioblastoma multiforme or leiomyosarcoma 
cell lines injected into nude mice, but had no effect on the growth rate of the tumour cells in vitro. The 
density of vessels was decreased in the antibody-treated tumours [68].  
In  xenograft  models  of  cancer  in  nude  mice,  antibody  administration  resulted  in  marked  growth 
inhibition of a variety of tumour types, including rhabdomyosarcoma [68-70], glioblastoma [54, 68-73], 
leiomyosarcoma  [68],  ovarian  carcinoma  [74-76],  prostate  carcinoma  [77-79],  colon  adenocarcinoma 
[54,  72,  80],  Wilms  tumour [81-83],  hepatoblastoma [84],  neuroblastoma  [83,  85],  breast  carcinoma 
[86-89],  melanoma  [54],  and  pancreatic  cancer  [90].  Dose-dependent  tumour  growth  inhibition  was 
observed  independent  of  tumour  location  and  route  of  administration  (IV,  IP,  and  intratumoural). 
Growth inhibition of primary tumours was obtained with early as well as with late treatment initiation. 
The effects as assessed by tumour size and/or weight ranged from 25% to >95% inhibition relative to 
control  treatment.  Immunohistochemistry  of  tumours  revealed  moderate  to  complete  inhibition  of 
tumour angiogenesis. 
Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  studies  showed  that  A4.6.1  is  able  to  counteract  the  permeability-
enhancing effects of VEGF [73, 75, 86, 87]. 
In  three  different  animal  models  inoculated  with  human  tumour  cells  (colon  carcinoma,  prostate  and 
Wilm’s  tumour),  treatment  with  A4.6.1  markedly  inhibited  primary  tumour  growth  and  reduced 
metastasis dissemination to liver and lung [78, 80, 81]. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No  dedicated  studies  of  safety  pharmacology  were  performed.  Nonclinical  studies  of  up  to  26  weeks 
duration  were  performed  with  bevacizumab  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  rabbits.  Drug-related effects 
were  consistent  with  the  inhibition  of  VEGF-dependent  angiogenesis.  These  studies  revealed  dose-
related  effects  on  sites  of  active  neo-angiogenesis  and  include  an  increase  in  hypertrophied 
chondrocytes, subchondral bony plate formation, and inhibition of vascular invasion of the growth plate 
in  young  adult  cynomolgus  monkeys  [91].  Decreased  ovarian  and  uterine  weights  and  absence  of 
corpora  lutea  were  observed  in  female  cynomolgus  monkeys  after  treatment  with  bevacizumab  [91]. 
Both  the  physeal  and  ovarian  changes  were  reversible  with  cessation  of  treatment.  These  studies  are 
described in further detail in the toxicology section of this report. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
No  formal  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  with  bevacizumab  or  A4.6.1.  Safety 
pharmacology  endpoints  were  evaluated  as  part  of  the  toxicology  studies  (see  Toxicology).  No 
treatment-related  effects  on  physical  examinations,  including  respiration  rate,  blood  pressure,  ECG, 
rectal  body  temperature  and  urinalysis,  were  observed  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  administered  2  to  50 
mg/kg of bevacizumab IV once or twice weekly for up to 26 weeks. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Several  non-clinical  studies  were  performed  in  order  to  study  the  effect  of  anti-VEGF  antibody 
treatment  in  combination  with  other  anti-neoplastic  treatments  in  animal  models  inoculated  with  cells 
from  human  tumour  cell  lines.  No  studies  including  fluoropyrimidine-based  therapy  have  been 
submitted. 
Page 12/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
A4.6.1 inhibited tumour growth, reduced microvascular density and increased the tumour pO2  in mice 
inoculated  by  human  glioblastoma  and  colon  adenocarcinoma  cell  lines.  In  addition,  tumour  growth 
delay caused by radiation was enhanced by pretreatment with A4.6.1 [72].  
Mono-therapy  with  A4.6.1,  bevacizumab,  paclitaxel  [76,  79],  or  doxorubicin  [88]  inhibited  tumour 
growth and angiogenesis in tumours from human breast cancer [88], prostate cancer [79] and ovarian 
cancer  [76].  In  these  studies,  co-administration  of  either  antibody  and  paclitaxel  or  antibody  and 
doxorubicin,  resulted  in  additional  growth  inhibition.  Withdrawal  of  mono-  or  combined  therapies 
induced recurrent growth, which was smallest in the co-administered group [79].  
Co-administration of antibodies and topotecan [85] or docetaxel [89] resulted in additional inhibition of 
angiogenesis  and  tumour  growth  in  tumours  from  human  neuroblastoma  [85],  breast  cancer  [89]  and 
Wilm’s  tumour  cell  lines  [82].  The  co-administration  of  A4.6.1  with  topotecan  treatment  prevented 
metastasis generation from Wilm’s tumour [82]. 
Mono-therapy with either A4.6.1 or the synthetic matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor BB-94 resulted in 
inhibited  primary  tumour  growth  and  dissemination  in  two  animal  models  of  human  pancreatic 
adenomas  (poorly  differentiated  AsPC-1,  moderately  differentiated  HPAF-2).  Significant  inhibition  of 
tumour growth after co-administration was only observed in HPAF-2 [90].  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies following single dose administration were performed in mouse, rat, rabbit and 
cynomolgus  monkey.  Examination  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  following  multiple  doses  was 
primarily  conducted  in  repeat-dose  toxicology  studies  in  rabbit  and  cynomolgus  monkey.  The 
pharmacokinetics  were  in  most  studies  evaluated  following  IV  administration,  which  is  the  intended 
clinical administration route.  
Concentrations  of bevacizumab in serum from rabbit, rat, cynomolgus monkey, and mouse, as well as  
rabbit  amniotic  fluid  were  measured  by  enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA).  The  same 
principle was used for measurement of antibodies to bevacizumab in rabbit serum, cynomolgus monkey 
serum and amniotic fluid from rabbit.  
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Absorption  of  bevacizumab  subsequent  to  a  single  intraperitoneal  (ip)  or  subcutaneous  (sc) 
administration has been examined in mouse, rat, and cynomolgus monkey. Absorption subsequent to ip 
administration  was  complete  in  mouse.  Sc  administration  resulted  in  a  slower  absorption  that  was 
complete in mouse (>100%) and cynomolgus monkey (98%) , but with a bioavailability of 69% in rat 
[42]. 
Table  1  summarizes  key  PK  parameters  in  all  species  following  administration  of  high  doses  of 
bevacizumab.  Following  IV  administration  of  bevacizumab  to  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys,  bevacizumab  concentrations  decreased  with  an  initial half-life (t1/2α) of approximately 1 day 
followed  by  a  slower  phase,  with  a  terminal  half-life (t1/2β)  that  was  between  approximately  1  and 
2 weeks.  Nonlinear PK parameters were observed in mice, rats, and rabbits following administration of 
doses of < 1 mg/kg. 
Bevacizumab clearance (CL) was slower following administration of higher doses. In mice, the CL was 
approximately  two times  faster  at  a  dose  of  0.8 mg/kg,  compared  to  the  CL  estimated  after 
administration  of  8.5 mg/kg.    In  rats,  CL  was  1.7 times  faster  at  a  dose of 0.664 mg/kg compared to 
10.1 mg/kg.  In rabbit CL after a single dose of 0.5 mg/kg was approximately twice as fast as after four 
repeated doses of 10 mg/kg bevacizumab. This difference was reflected in increased half-time. 
Page 13/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Table 1 
Compartmental Pharmacokinetic Parameters for all Species Receiving 
Intravenous High Doses of Bevacizumab 
Species 
(Study No.) 
Mouse 
(96-195-1751PK) 
Rat 
(96-196-1751PK) 
Rabbit 
(96-407B-1751) 
Cynomolgus Monkey 
(96-211-1751) 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
CL 
(mL/kg/day) 
Vc 
(mL/kg) 
Vss 
(mL/kg) 
t1/2α
(hr) 
t1/2β  
(days) 
MRT 
(days) 
9.3 
15.7 
53.0 
152 
28.8 
6.81 
9.69 
10.1 
10 
50 
4.83 ± 
 1.1 
8.13 
5.78 ± 
 0.84 
30.8 ±
 2.7 
39.9 
79.5 ±  
12 
62.9 
6.57 ±  
1.9 
12.3 ± 
 3.2 
17.1 ± 
 4.7 
5.82 
5.52 
7.74 
36.8 ±  
4.9 
73.9 ±  
11 
19.2 ±  
9.5 
10.3 ± 
 3.1 
13.1 ± 
 3.5 
Abbreviations: CL,  clearance; MRT, mean residence time; t1/2α , initial half-life; t1/2β , terminal half-life; 
Vc , volume of the central compartment; Vss , volume of distribution at steady state. 
In cynomolgus monkeys, following single IV administration, bevacizumab PK was linear over the range 
of  2-50 mg/kg.    The  mean  CL  was  approximately  6 mL/kg/day,  and  the  t1/2α  and  t1/2β  were  ≤ 1  and 
10 days, respectively.   
PK  parameters,  estimated  following  multiple-dose  administration  of  bevacizumab  in  the  4-,  13-,  and 
26-week toxicology studies in cynomolgus monkeys, were also generally consistent with those estimated 
following  single-dose  administration.    Although  evidence  of  non-linear  kinetic  was  also  observed  in 
cynomolgus  monkey  receiving  50  mg/kg  weekly  for  26  weeks, these findings were likely to be due to 
methodological  aspects  and  interindividual  variation,  and  it  was  possible  to  conclude  that kinetic was 
linear  in  cynomolgus  monkey.  Thus,  no alteration  in disposition was observed upon administration of 
multiple doses. 
• 
Distribution 
µ
µ
Tissue  distribution  of  125I-labelled  bevacizumab  was  examined  in  male  rabbit  following  iv  bolus 
administration.  Animals  received  a  single  trace  iv  dose  of  either  125I-bevacizumab  (600 
Ci/kg,  total 
g/kg),  or  125I-rhuMAb  E25  (isotype  control).  Sodium  iodide  was 
protein  dose  of  approximately  4.8 
administered to minimize uptake of 125I in the thyroid. Plasma samples were collected at 2 and 48 hours 
postdose.  Selected  tissues  and  urine were collected at each timepoint. Disposition of  125I-bevacizumab 
was  determined  by  measurement  of  total  and  TCA-precipitable  radioactivity  of  125I-bevacizumab  and 
125I-rhuMAb E25. 
Two  and  48  hours  after  IV  bolus  administration  of  [125I]bevacizumab  in  rabbits,  trichloracetic  acid 
(TCA)-precipitable radioactivity was localized primarily in plasma (approximately 10-fold higher than 
in  tissues).  Radioactivity  decreased  by  nearly  2.5-fold  between  2  and  48  hours  for  both  125I-
bevacizumab, and the isotype control. The organs that exhibited the highest levels of radioactivity per 
gram of tissue were, in decreasing order, kidney > testis > spleen > heart > lung > thymus (ranging from 
0.069-0.018% TCA-precipitable dose/g of tissue). Tissue distribution profiles of  125I-bevacizumab and 
125I-rhuMAb E25 were similar [42].  
Bevacizumab was shown to distribute into foetal serum and into the amniotic fluid in two reproduction 
toxicity studies conducted in rabbit (see toxicology). 
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
In the distribution study in rabbit, minimal degradation was noted for as long as 48 hours for both 125I-
bevacizumab and the control monoclonal IgG,  125I-rhuMAb E25. The degradation pattern appeared to 
vary from tissue to tissue. At 48 hours, intact 125I-bevacizumab remained the predominant band in most 
tissues analyzed, with similar results for the labeled control antibody, rhuMAb E25. The metabolism of 
bevacizumab was similar to that of the control Mab [42].  
Page 14/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
• 
Excretion 
No specific study has been conducted to evaluate excretion. In the pharmacokinetic study in rabbit, less 
than 10% of the radioactivity in the urine at 2 and 48 hours post dose was TCA-precipitable [42]. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
The  safety  and  PK  of  the  combination  of  IFL  (irinotecan  /5-FU/FA),  with  or  without  bevacizumab, 
were investigated in cynomolgus monkeys. All animals received irinotecan at a dose of either 125 or 100 
mg/m2, 5-FU at 500 mg/m2, and FA at 20 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 8. Only animals in Group 2 received 
IFL at doses of 125/500/20 mg/m2 concomitantly with bevacizumab, administered at 10 mg/kg on Days 
1  and  8.  Because  of  the  limited  volume  of  blood  that  could  be  collected  from  the  animals,  the  PK 
investigation was focused primarily on irinotecan and 5-FU disposition and was not designed to assess 
the  impact  of  the  IFL  regimen  on  bevacizumab  PK.  Based  on  the  similarity  of  the  PK  parameters 
between groups, irinotecan and 5-FU disposition were unchanged by the concomitant administration of 
bevacizumab.  SN38  concentrations,  the  active  metabolite  of  irinotecan,  were  below  the  limit  of 
quantification in most samples, and no parameters were estimated. 
• 
Other pharmacokinetic studies 
In clinical trials following bevacizumab administration, total VEGF concentrations (free and bound to 
bevacizumab)  were  shown  to  increase  over  time.  This  increase  in  total  VEGF  concentrations  was 
attributed to a decrease in VEGF CL when bound to bevacizumab. This hypothesis was tested in rats 
following single-dose administration of the proteins. Animals in Group 1 received recombinant human 
VEGF165 (rhVEGF) (30.4 µ Ci/kg of [125I]rhVEGF + rhVEGF, 25.7 µ g/kg total). Animals in Group 3 
received  a  single  dose  of  bevacizumab  (1  mg/kg),  and  animals  in  Group  2  received  preformed 
complexes of bevacizumab and rhVEGF at the same doses in Groups 1 and 3. The doses of rhVEGF 
and  bevacizumab  were  selected  to  result  in  serum  concentrations  of  bevacizumab  that  were 
approximately  10  times  larger  on  a  molar  basis  than  serum  VEGF  concentrations.  This  ratio  was 
selected  to  approximate  the  clinical  setting  where  bevacizumab  concentrations  are  in  large  excess 
relative  to  the  endogenous  concentrations  of  VEGF.  VEGF  concentrations  were  measured  by 
scintillation  counting  and  bevacizumab  concentrations  by  ELISA.  Binding  and  complexation  of 
rhVEGF  to  bevacizumab  decreased  rhVEGF  CL  by  approximately  3.4-fold,  while  complexation  of  a 
small  portion  of  bevacizumab  to  rhVEGF  did  not  change  bevacizumab  CL.  Bevacizumab  volume  of 
distribution was, however, increased by approximately 20% when complexed with rhVEGF. 
Toxicology 
The toxicology program was designed to support IV administration of bevacizumab. Toxicology studies 
were performed in cynomolgus monkeys and rabbits. Bevacizumab was administered alone for up to 26 
weeks  or  in  combination  with  commonly  used  chemotherapy  regimens  in  cynomolgus  monkeys. 
Cynomolgus monkey VEGF is predicted to have a protein sequence  identical to that of human VEGF 
[41]. According to the applicant, bevacizumab also binds rabbit VEGF, although with a lower affinity 
than  for  human  VEGF;  the  dissociation  constant  (Kd) is 8.0 nM for rabbit VEGF compared with 1.1 
nM for human VEGF. Due to the lower affinity of bevacizumab to rabbit VEGF compared to human 
VEGF  the  design  of  studies  in  rabbits  used  higher  doses,  and  were  of  shorter  duration  to  avoid  the 
development  of  anti-drug  antibodies.  Several  non-GLP  investigative  experiments  in  rabbits  were 
designed to explore findings observed in human clinical trials (see other toxicity studies). 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
No single dose toxicity studies were performed. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
• 
Twice weekly iv administration of rhuMAbVEGF for 4 or 13 weeks were carried out in young adult to 
adult cynomolgus monkeys [91]. Additionally, a 26-week iv with a 12-week recovery was conducted in 
adult cynomolgus monkeys. 
In the 4-week study, young monkeys were treated with bevacizumab vehicle or bevacizumab 2, 10 or 50 
mg/kg twice weekly. There were no overt clinical signs of toxicity, and no treatment-related effects were 
Page 15/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
noted  on  body  weight,  food  consumption,  blood  pressure,  rectal  body  temperature,  respiration  rates, 
ECG,  ophthalmic  or  electroretinographic  observations  or  clinical  pathology  (including  clinical 
chemistry,  urinalysis).  Enlarged  spleens  were  reported  for  one  male  and  one  female  in  the  50  mg/kg 
group.  One  male  given  50 mg/kg  had  slight,  multifocal  renal  haemorrhage.  There were no pathologic 
changes  to  explain  the  finding.  In  the  male  10  and  50  mg/kg  group,  microscopic  findings  of  physeal 
dysplasia of the distal femur were noted. The physeal dysplasia was slight to moderate at 10 mg/kg and 
moderate to severe at 50 mg/kg. This was characterized by thickening of the growth plate, clusters of 
hyperplastic  chondrocytes,  and  a  distinct  zone  of  cessation  of  bone  growth.  Physeal  dysplasia  was 
present  in  both  males  following  4  week  recovery,  being  slight  in  1  animal  and  severe  in  the  other. 
Minimal diffuse degeneration and necrosis of the metaphyseal bone marrow was present in the recovery 
animal  with  severe  physeal  dysplasia.  Antibodies  to  bevacizumab  were  not  detected  in  any  animal  at 
any timepoint. 
The  13  week  study  used  similar  dose  levels  and  regimen  as  the  4  week  study.  No  toxicity  on  body 
weight,  blood  pressure,  ECG,  ophthalmology  or  clinical  pathology  parameters  was  observed.  One  50 
mg/kg  male  had  notably  decreased  serum  protein  and  albumin  and  increased  cholesterol  at  week  13, 
coinciding  with  the  histopathologic  finding  of  glomerulonephritis  in  this  animal.  The  finding  was 
considered idiopathic and unrelated to treatment. Ovarian and uterine weights were reduced in females 
at 10 or 50 mg/kg. The changes coincided with a reduced number or absence of corpora lutea. Distinct 
corpora lutea were essentially absent in females at 50 mg/kg and were noted in only two of four females 
at 10 mg/kg. Following 4 week’s recovery, females at 50 mg/kg had an absence of corpora lutea, but 
ovarian and uterine weight were no longer decreased, suggesting that the effect on female reproductive 
function is at least partially reversible upon treatment cessation. A dose-dependent increased incidence 
and  severity  of  physeal  dysplasia  (as  described  for  the  4-week  study)  was  noted,  and in males it was 
seen  at  all  dose  levels  and  regarded  as  moderately  severe  at  10  and  50  mg/kg.  Additionally,  linear 
fissuring of the cartilaginous growth plate was occasionally observed. In females, physeal dysplasia was 
minimal  to  slight  at  10  or  50  mg/kg.  Physeal  dysplasia  was  present  but  less  severe  after  4  week’s 
recovery,  suggesting  repair  of  damaged  growth  plate  cartilage.  The  bias  toward  males  was  not 
considered a direct gender effect, since most of the treated females had closed growth plates at treatment 
initiation. Antibodies to bevacizumab were not detected in any animal at any timepoint. 
In the 26-week study, adult monkeys (4 to 7 years old) were treated once weekly at 2, 10 or 50 mg/kg or 
twice  weekly  at  10  mg/kg.  Treatment  induced  no  effects  on  physical  examination,  ECG,  blood 
pressures, radiograms, ophthalmology, haematology or urinalysis. At 10 mg/kg (twice weekly) and 50 
mg/kg, mildly lower albumin and albumin-to-globulin ratio and moderately higher globulin were seen in 
males. Additionally, body  weights, weight gain and food consumption were reduced for males in these 
groups. The body weight effects were no longer evident following 12-week’s recovery. It is possible that 
the  animals  may  have  grown  at a  slower  rate  because  of  physeal  dysplasia.  In  females,  a  dose  of  10 
mg/kg  or  higher  reduced  endometrial  proliferation,  produced  lower  uterine  weights  and  decreased  the 
incidence  of  menstrual  cycles.  At  50  mg/kg  and  10  mg/kg  (twice  weekly),  follicular  maturation  was 
inhibited at the early Graafian follicle stage in ovaries. These effects were reversed following recovery. 
Corpora lutea were absent at 10 mg/kg (twice weekly) and at 50 mg/kg. Following recovery, only 1 of 
two females had absent corpora lutea, suggesting at least partial reversibility. Like in the other studies, 
a dose-dependent increase in the incidence and severity of physeal dysplasia was noted in both genders. 
The severity was less pronounced than in the previous studies, probably because an effort was made to 
select  animals  with  closed  growth  plates  by  performing  radiography  pre-study.  Linear  fissuring  was 
seen  as  a  severe  manifestation  of  physeal  dysplasia  in  one  10  mg/kg (twice weekly) male and one 50 
mg/kg male. Serum from one control animal at study day 15 and serum from one 50 mg/kg animal at 
day  183  were  positive  for  antibodies  to  bevacizumab.  The  responses  were  very  weak  (just  above  the 
minimal detectable level) and were directed to the Fab portion of bevacizumab. A positive result in the 
control animal was considered to be due to assay interference, and all other timepoints for this animal 
were negative.  
Given the physeal dysplasia observed in studies of bevacizumab in cynomolgus monkeys following 4 to 
26  weeks  of  treatment, an investigative study in rabbits was conducted to assess the suitability of the 
rabbit for further study of physeal dysplasia. In contrast to the effect noted in monkeys, bevacizumab 
Page 16/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
did not inhibit vascular invasion or induce subchondral bony plate formation in rabbits at doses up to 75 
mg/kg.  However,  the  duration  of  dosing  in  rabbits  is  limited  by  development  of  antibodies  to 
bevacizumab; this short exposure period may possibly be insufficient for physeal dysplasia to develop 
(see other toxicity studies). 
A  study  in  NZW  rabbits  was  performed  to  further  investigate  the  effect  of  bevacizumab  on  luteal 
function.  Rabbits  were  given  four  IV  injections  of  bevacizumab  at  50  mg/kg  or  bevacizumab  vehicle 
(n=8  per  group)  over  a  10-day  period.  Bevacizumab  exposure  inhibited  the  function  of  the  corpus 
luteum at a dose of 50 mg/kg given every 2 days in the rabbit. In a second study, the dose response of 
the effect of bevacizumab on ovarian function was investigated  in  female NZW rabbits. Rabbits were 
5 per group) 
given three IV injections of bevacizumab at 2, 10, or 50 mg/kg or bevacizumab vehicle (n=
over  a  9-day  period.  No  significant  effects  were  observed  in  the  2  or 10 mg/kg dose groups. Rabbits 
given 50 mg/kg of bevacizumab plus hCG had fewer corpora lutea than vehicle-treated animals. 
The  toxicity  of  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  chemotherapeutic  regimens  (IFL,  or  cisplatin  plus 
paclitaxel)  was  investigated  in  the  GLP-compliant  2-week  monkey  studies  (see  also  pharmacokinetic 
drug  interactions).  Administration  of  IFL  resulted  in  diarrhoea,  body  weight  loss,  and  decreased food 
consumption,  in  addition  to  a  decreased  white  blood  cell  count  and,  in  some  of  the  animals,  a  small 
thymus with corresponding lymphoid depletion. Microscopic effects noted in the sternal bone morrow of 
most  animals  consisted  mainly  of  erythroid  and/or  myeloid  hyperplasia.  The  co-administration  of 
bevacizumab  with  IFL  did  not  alter  the  magnitude  of  the  effects  related  to  treatment  with  the 
antineoplastic therapy regimen. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo 
No genotoxicity studies were performed. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were performed. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Studies on embryofoetal development were performed in rabbit. In a pilot study, 35 presumed pregnant 
New Zealand White rabbits were assigned to seven groups (5/group) and administered bevacizumab or 
placebo iv during organogenesis. Solutions of the test article or placebo were administered once daily on 
gestation days (GDs) 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 (group 1), GDs 6, 9 and 12 (groups 2, 3 and 4), or GDs 12, 
15 and 18 (groups 5, 6 and 7). Doses of 0 (control)-10-30-100 mg/kg were administered (to maintain an 
average  serum  concentration  approximately  equivalent  to  the  human  clinical  exposure).  Bevacizumab 
administration  induced  a  decrease  in  maternal  body  weight  and  body  weight  gain  throughout  the 
gestation period and a decrease in food consumption during the post-dose period in high-dose animals 
(GDs 12, 15 and 18). Food consumption was reduced in the same animals. Average foetal body weights 
were reduced in the same dose group. At day 29, 47% of animals treated with bevacizumab on GDs 12, 
15  and  18  developed  antibodies.  Antibodies  to  bevacizumab  were  detected  in  foetal  serum  of  37% 
(11/30)  of the  treated  does  and  in  the  amniotic  fluid of 20% (6/30) of the treated does. Bevacizumab 
was  detected  in  maternal  serum,  foetal  serum  and  amniotic  fluid  of  most rabbits at GD 29 (11 or 17 
days after the last dose). In most cases, foetal serum concentrations were greater than maternal serum 
concentrations  with  a  median  ratio  of  foetal  serum:maternal  serum  concentrations  of  1.87.  Amniotic 
fluid  concentrations  were  generally  lower  than  maternal  serum  concentrations  with  a  median  ratio  of 
0.197. Examination of soft tissue and skeleton were not performed in this pilot study. 
In  another study,  presumed pregnant New Zealand White rabbits (20/group, with 4 rabbits per group 
included  exclusively  for  PK  samplig)  were  treated  iv  with  vehicle or bevacizumab at dose levels of 0 
(placebo)-10-30-100 mg/kg on GDs 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18. A dose-related significant decrease in maternal 
body weight gain and significant mean body weight loss were observed in the two higher dose groups. 
Foetal body weights were significantly reduced in all treatment groups. The number of late resorptions 
was increased in the 100 mg/kg dose group, resulting in an increase in the total number of resorptions 
and  the  per  cent  dead  or  resorbed  foetuses  per  litter.  There  was  a  dose-related  increase  in  foetal 
malformations,  and  in  the  two  higher  dose  groups  the  number  of  litters  with  malformations  was 
Page 17/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 

statistically significantly increased as compared to the control group. The most frequent malformations 
included meningocele (14 foetuses from six litters in the high-dose group), thin skin over the fontanelle 
(18  foetuses  from  seven  litters  in  the  high-dose  group),  abdominal  distention  (11  foetuses  from  five 
litters in the high-dose group), rotated hindlimbs (10 foetuses from five litters in the high-dose group), 
enlarged  fontanelle,  hypoplastic  ribs,  bent  ribs,  malformed  maxilla,  irregular  tibia,  absence  of  digits, 
hemivertebrae (cervical, thoracic and lumbar), and several blood vessel variations. The number of litters 
with any alteration in the control, 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg groups was 8 (42%), 9 (53%), 13 (76.5%) and 
19 (95%), respectively. In addition, the number of ossification sites per foetus per litter for metacarpals 
was  reduced  or  significantly  reduced  in  all  treatment  groups.  Ossification  site  averages  were  also 
significantly  reduced  in  the  high-dose  group  for  caudal  vertebrae  and  fore-  and  hind-limb  phalanges. 
The maternal NOAEL was 10 mg/kg. The foetal NOAEL was less than 10 mg/kg, since all treatment 
doses reduced  foetal weights and number of ossification sites, whereas the two higher treatment doses 
produced a statistically significant increase in multiple malformations. Antibody titers to bevacizumab 
were detected in maternal serum of 9/73 (12%) of does treated with bevacizumab plus 1 animal in the 
control group, in foetal serum of 9/71 (13%) of foetuses from treated does, and in amniotic fluid from 
7/73  (10%)  of  pregnant  does  treated  with  bevacizumab  on  GD  29.  Following  the  administration  of  a 
single dose or  multiple doses on GDs 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 of bevacizumab, concentrations in maternal 
serum  and  amniotic  fluid  increased  linearly  with  dose,  while  concentrations  in  foetal  serum  increased 
less than proportionally. Concentrations were higher in foetal than in maternal serum (ratio>1) at GD 
29  following  five  doses  of  bevacizumab,  while  concentrations  were  lower  in  foetal  then  in  maternal 
serum (ratio<1) at GD 21 following a single dose on GD 18. 
No  prenatal  and  postnatal  development,  including  maternal  function  studies  or  studies  in  which 
offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated, were performed. 
• 
Local tolerance 
No local tolerance study was performed. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
One  in  vitro  study  assessed  the  hemolytic  potential  and  the  compatibility  of  rhuMAb  VEGF  and 
rhuMAb  VEGF  vehicle  for  cynomolgus  monkey  and  human  whole  blood  and  serum  and  plasma. 
RhuMAb  VEGF  (at  a  final  concentration  of  5  mg/mL)  and  rhuMAb  VEGF  Vehicle  (at  a  dilution 
equivalent to a final concentration of 5-mg/mL rhuMAb VEGF) did not cause hemolysis of cynomolgus 
monkey  or  human  erythrocytes  and  are  compatible  with  cynomolgus  monkey  and  human  serum  and 
plasma. 
Tissue  specificity  of  bevacizumab  against  a  panel  of  9  normal  rabbit  tissues,  30  normal  cynomolgus 
tissues, and 36 normal human tissues, was determined via an immunohistochemical technique using 10 
and 400 
g/mL of bevacizumab conjugated with biotin. No cross-reactivity between bevacizumab and 
different tissues was observed with an immunohistochemical method.  
µ
Bevacizumab  antibodies  were  detected  in  rabbits  after  multiple  dosing. Rabbits produce antibodies to 
humanized  monoclonal  antibodies.  The  time  course  of  antibody  development  was  thus  studied  in  the 
rabbit so that further studies conducted could be optimized to avoid anti-bevacizumab antibodies. In one 
study  in  rabbits  (N=4),  bevacizumab  vehicle  or  10  mg/kg  of  bevacizumab  were  administered 
intravenously on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Antibodies developed between 8 and 11 days after the initiation 
of dosing. 
Because  of  the  concern  that  bevacizumab  may  delay  wound  healing  in  patients  undergoing  biopsy 
procedures  or  surgery,  the  effect  of  bevacizumab  on  wound  healing  was  investigated  using  a  linear-
incision model (to mimic a surgical incision) in rabbits. Bevacizumab administration resulted in a dose-
dependent and significant decrease in the tensile strength of the wounds in these studies, indicating that 
bevacizumab interferes with wound healing in the rabbit. A second model of wound healing, the circular 
wound model (to mimic an ulcerative lesion), was used in rabbits to confirm the results of the studies 
using the linear incision model. Male NZW rabbits weighing 2.0.2.5 kg were treated with IV injections 
of  bevacizumab  (50  mg/kg),  bevacizumab  vehicle,  or  methylprednisolone  (35  mg/kg)  as  a  positive 
control. Injections were given every other day for 2 weeks (total of five doses; n = 3 per group). By Day 
Page 18/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
12,  the  wounds  in  the  bevacizumab  vehicle-treated  group  were  78%  closed,  while  in  the 
methylprednisolone-  and  bevacizumab-treated  groups  the  wounds  were  33%  and  46%  closed, 
respectively.  Microscopically, 67% of the wounds had completely healed in the bevacizumab vehicle-
treated  group,  whereas  50%  and  17%  of the wounds in methylprednisolone- and bevacizumab-treated 
animals, respectively, had undergone complete re-epithelialization. The dose-response of this effect was 
explored in a subsequent study. Delays in wound healing were noted at doses as low as 2 mg/kg given 
twice weekly for 2 weeks in the rabbit, with a trend toward a dose-response relationship, and evidence 
of reversibility upon cessation of treatment. Similar experiments using the linear incision wound model 
were also performed in cynomolgus monkeys. One to 3 male monkeys per group were treated with IV 
doses of bevacizumab (0.5 or 2.0 mg/kg) every other day over 8 days (total of four doses). The effects 
of  bevacizumab  on  wound  healing  in  the  monkey  were  extremely  variable,  and  no  dose-response 
relationship was evident. 
To investigate the potential for bevacizumab treatment to increase the incidence of thrombosis, an acute 
rabbit  model  of  thrombosis  was  used.  Male  NZW  rabbits  were  treated  with  either  bevacizumab  (75 
mg/kg)  or  bevacizumab  vehicle  daily  for 8 days. Following the eighth dose, a thrombus was induced. 
No  changes  in  haematology  or  coagulation  parameters  were  noted  for  either  treatment  group.  No 
differences  were  observed  between  groups  in  time  to  clot  formation,  clot  weight,  or  cuticle  bleeding 
time.  
A  preliminary  study  was  conducted  to  examine  the  deposition  of  bevacizumab  in  the  kidney.  Two 
female NZW rabbits per treatment group were given IV doses of bevacizumab at 2, 10, or 100 mg/kg or 
bevacizumab  vehicle  on  Days  1  and  3.  No  changes  in  clinical  signs  or  body  weight  as  a  result  of 
bevacizumab  administration  were  noted  on  Day  5.  Examination  of  the  kidneys  by  light  and  electron 
microscopy  indicated no  histological  differences  between  control  and  treated  animals  and  no selective 
deposition of bevacizumab 
An animal model of cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction was used to simulate a subject with pre-existing 
renal  disease.  Seven  male  NZW  rabbits  were  assigned  to each  of  four  groups  (28  animals  total)  and 
treated  with  IV  administration  of  cisplatin  (1  mg/kg)  or  saline  and  bevacizumab  (50  mg/kg)  or 
bevacizumab  vehicle.  Cisplatin or saline was given every other day for 2 weeks (six doses total), and 
bevacizumab or bevacizumab vehicle was given concurrently every other day during the second week of 
treatment (three doses total). The administration of cisplatin alone or the combination of cisplatin and 
bevacizumab resulted in significant decreases in body weight compared to the control group. Treatment 
with  cisplatin  and  cisplatin  plus  bevacizumab  resulted  in  a  significant  increase  in  serum  blood  urea 
nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine at the end of the treatment period compared with the levels in the control 
group and the group treated with bevacizumab alone. Treatment with bevacizumab alone did not affect 
BUN  or  creatinine.  No  effects  of  bevacizumab  treatment  were  noted  on  urinary  specific  gravity. 
Bevacizumab treatment alone induced no alteration in any of the endpoints studied in this model. Two 
studies  of  protein  (bovine  serum  albumin,  BSA)  overload  in  the  rabbit  were  used  to  complement  the 
cisplatin  model  to  further  examine  the  effect  of  bevacizumab  on  renal  function  in  the  presence  of 
different  types  of  pre-existing  renal  damage.  Rabbits  were  treated  with  BSA  (5  or  20  mg/kg)  for  6 
weeks followed by 4 doses of bevacizumab at 50 mg/kg during week 6 or 8. No significant differences 
in serum BUN or creatinine were observed following bevacizumab administration. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  applicant  has  performed  an  environmental  risk  assessment  using  formulae  for  Predicted 
Environmental Concentration (PEC) modelling according to the draft CHMP/SWP note for guidance on 
environmental  risk assessment  of medicinal products for human use. The applicant claims that if used 
as a pharmaceutical product according to its purpose, Avastin will not enter the environment directly. 
Only  minimal  traces  originating  from  manufacturing  may  be  expected  to  be  released  into  sewage 
systems and  reach an industrial wastewater treatment plant. Domestic disposal will result in rapid and 
full  degradation  of  Avastin.  Avastin  is  excreted  in  the  form  of  degradation  products  that  are  not 
recognisable or biologically active. Further, based on the high human specificity, the ecotoxic potential 
of Avastin is regarded as decidedly low. The PEC has been calculated for the aquatic compartment for 
the  whole  of  Europe.  A  provisional  threshold limit for aquatic PEC is  set at 10 ng/l, below which no 
Page 19/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
further  environmental  risk  assessment  is  considered  necessary.  The  crude  surface  water  PEC  for  the 
whole  of  EU  extrapolated  for  Avastin,  assuming  no  metabolism  in  patients  and  no  degradation  in 
sewage works, as a worst-case estimate, is calculated to 0.48 ng/l. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  nonclinical  studies  submitted  demonstrated  interference  with  VEGF  to  be  an  effective  anti-
angiogenic  strategy  for  a  broad  range  of  tumour  types.  The  submitted  non-clinical  documentation 
regarding the pharmacological properties of bevacizumab was bibliographical.  
Multiple  manufacturing  changes  were  implemented  over  the  course  of  bevacizumab  drug  substance 
development. Most changes were minor and did not affect the primary structure of the molecule. 
Discussion on non-clinical pharmacodynamics 
Bevacizumab and its murine parental homolog A4.6.1 bind with high affinity to human VEGF isotypes, 
and inhibit the function of VEGF in regulation of angiogenesis. Most submitted pharmacological studies 
are  performed  with  A4.6.1  but  equivalence  between  bevacizumab  and  A4.6.1  has  been  adequately 
documented with regard to VEGF affinity and anti-proliferative effect. Anti-VEGF antibody treatment 
inhibits primary tumour growth and metastases in animal models xenografted with a number of human 
cancer cell lines, including colon carcinoma. The anti-tumourigenic effect is most likely exerted through 
inhibition of the VEGF-induced angiogenesis and reduction of the VEGF-induced vascular permeability. 
The degree of growth inhibition varied with the cell lines used, and for colon carcinoma tumours about 
80  %  reduction  was  observed  following  antibody  treatment  for  2-3  weeks.  However,  altered  invasive 
properties  of  G55  glioblastoma  tumour  cells  following  anti-VEGF  antibody  treatment,  causing 
generation of satellite tumours around pre-existing vessels has been shown. Combination therapy with 
conventional cytotoxic agents increased the anti-tumour effect of anti-VEGF antibodies. However, as no 
studies with co-administration of anti-VEGF antibodies and fluoropyrimidine based therapy have been 
submitted,  non-clinical  assessment  of  the  pharmacological  basis  for  the  applied  combination  is  not 
possible.  
Discussion on non-clinical pharmacokinetics 
Bevacizumab  pharmacokinetics  were  characterized  after  IV  administration  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  and 
monkeys to investigate bevacizumab PK in several species and to help predict human exposure and dose 
selection and to provide estimates of bevacizumab exposure when multiple doses of bevacizumab were 
to  be  administered  to cynomolgus monkeys in toxicology studies. Bevacizumab PK in all species was 
characterized  by  a  distribution  limited  mostly  to  the  vasculature  and  by  slow  CL,  consistent  with  the 
low  tissue  uptake  and  low  catabolism  of  IgGs.  Bevacizumab  CL  was  faster  at  doses  <  1  mg/kg  in 
rodents  and  rabbits,  while  disposition  in  monkeys  was  linear  at  doses  ranging  from  2.50  mg/kg. 
Agreement  was  observed  between  the  predicted  and  the  observed  CL  of  bevacizumab  in  humans, 
suggesting  that  bevacizumab CL mechanism is similar across species (data not shown). Bevacizumab 
pharmacokinetics  were  additionally  investigated  following  multiple  doses  during  the  4-,  13-,  and  26-
week  toxicology  studies.  Based  on  examination  of  the  mean  concentration  time  profile,  the  decline  in 
concentrations  appears  to  be the same in all three studies, indicating similar disposition in all studies. 
However,  the  mean  CL  for  the  26-week  study  was  approximately  30%  lower.  These  apparent 
differences are most likely artifacts  
There  was  evidence  of  non-linear  kinetic  in  mice  and  rats  after  iv  administration  of  bevacizumab. 
Although  peak  serum  concentrations  appeared  to  increase  in  relation  to  the  dose,  increases  in  AUC 
levels were more than dose-proportional. Likewise, terminal half-times increased with increasing single 
iv doses in rats and mice. According to the applicant, this finding in rats may be due to limited sampling 
duration in the high dose group. However, pharmacokinetic parameters observed in rabbit after single as 
well as multiple doses of bevacizumab, suggest that non-linear kinetic occurred in this species as well.  
The results from distribution studies are consistent with the Vc and Vss estimated in all species, which 
ranged from 50.150 mL/kg, suggesting limited distribution outside of the serum compartment. Overall, 
no significant differences in the distribution of bevacizumab and rhuMAb E25 were evident, suggesting 
that  at  the  doses  used  in  this  study,  the  bevacizumab  distribution  pattern  was  representative  and 
consistent with the tissue distribution of a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody [92, 93]. The ability of 
Page 20/61 
EMEA 2005 

 
 
с
bevacizumab  to  bind  rabbit  VEGF  did  not  significantly  alter  its  disposition,  relative  to  the  isotypic 
control antibody. 
Assessment  of  bevacizumab  metabolism  in  rabbits  following  a  single  IV  dose  of  125I-bevacizumab 
indicated  that  its metabolic profile was  similar to that expected for a native IgG molecule which does 
not bind VEGF. There is extensive evidence that the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-
с
Rn,  also  known  as  the  IgG  salvage  receptor,  modulates  IgG  trafficking  across 
related  receptor  F
tissues, and is responsible for the long half-life and high concentrations of IgGs in the circulation [94-
Rn is widely expressed in adult tissues and can be found in the endothelium of small arterioles 
98]. F
and  capillaries  [94,  98-101].  Endothelial  cells  located  in  the  skin,  muscle  and  liver  appear  to  be  the 
с
major  sites  of  F
Rn  expression  and  activity  [100]  and  therefore  are  likely  the  target  tissues  of  IgG 
с
recycling  and  catabolism  in  non-pregnant  adults  [102].  F
Rn  expression  is  mostly  intracellular  and 
associated  with  acidified  transport  vesicles  and  endosomes.  IgG  antibodies  are  internalised  either 
following  binding  to  cell  surface  antigens  or  receptors  or  by  bulk  phase  non-specific  endocytosis. 
с
Intracellular F
Rn-bound IgG is protected from degradation and instead recycled. Failure of IgG to bind 
с
via the Fc domain to F
Rn receptor or lack 
of expression, results in unbound antibody being directed towards lysosomes and degradation to small 
peptides and amino acids [97]. 
с
Rn in the endosomes, either because of saturation of the F
Comparability studies in rats indicated that bevacizumab CL was similar between lots (data not shown). 
Complexation of bevacizumab with VEGF decreased VEGF CL. This is consistent with a report where 
administration of the antibody omalizumab resulted in an increase in concentrations of the target antigen 
(IgE) [103]. 
No  studies  have  been  conducted  to  investigate  excretion  in  milk  of  lactating  animals  but  excretion  of 
IgGs is expected to occur in breast milk. 
The  interaction  potential  of  bevacizumab  and  chemotherapeutic  agents  was  studied  in  two  studies  in 
cynomolgus  monkeys.  No pharmacokinetic interactions between bevacizumab and cisplatin, paclitaxel 
were  observed  (data  not  shown). Irinotecan and 5-FU disposition were unchanged by the concomitant 
administration of bevacizumab. 
Discussion on toxicology 
Bevacizumab was generally well tolerated at doses up to 50 mg/kg in cynomolgus monkeys. Treatment-
related  effects  were  consistent  with  the  pharmacological  activity  to  inhibit  VEGF-dependent 
angiogenesis. The toxicity included a dose-dependent occurrence of physeal dysplasia secondary to the 
inhibition of blood vessel formation in long bone growth plates. Physeal dysplasia occurred in males at 
about  2  mg/kg  and  in  females  at  10 mg/kg. Based on weekly dose, this effect occurred at dose levels 
slightly  below  (>0.8-fold)  the  proposed  clinical  dose,  and  exposure  levels  were  approximately  1.5- to 
2.0-fold below the expected human clinical exposure, based on average serum concentrations. Physeal 
dysplasia  occurred  only  in  actively  growing  animals  and  tended  to  be  reversible.  A  treatment-related 
delay  in  wound  healing  was  observed  in  rabbits  at  doses  of  0.5  mg/kg, which  is  below  the  proposed 
human clinical dose. 
No specific studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate the effect on fertility. An adverse effect 
on  female  fertility  can  however  be  expected  as  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  in  animals  have  shown 
inhibition of the maturation of ovarian follicles and a decrease/absence of corpora lutea and associated 
decrease in ovarian and uterus weight as well as a decrease in the number of menstrual cycles. Female 
reproductive toxicity was observed in the repeat-dose studies in monkeys at doses 
 2-fold 
above  the  expected  human  exposure  based  on  weekly  dose  or  average  serum  concentration  in  female 
monkeys,  respectively.  The  effects  observed  in  the  rabbit  studies  were  observed  at  doses  near  those 
proposed  for  use  in  human  clinical  trials.  Bevacizumab  was  also  embryotoxic  and  teratogenic  when 
administered  to  rabbits.  Observed  effects  included  decreases  in  maternal  and  foetal  body  weights,  an 
increased number of foetal resorptions and an increased incidence of specific gross and skeletal foetal 
malformations.  Adverse  foetal  outcomes  were  observed  at  all  tested  doses,  of  which  the  lowest  dose 
resulted  in  average  serum  concentrations  approximately  3  times  larger  than  in  humans  receiving 
5 mg/kg every 2 weeks. The toxicity of bevacizumab on fertility and pregnancy is expected based on the 
 4-fold or 
≥
≥
Page 21/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
critical role of angiogenesis in ovarian function (Fraser and Lunn 2001) and normal foetal development 
(Carmeliet  et al.  1996;  Ferrara  et al.  1996;  Fong  et al.  1995;  Shalaby  et al.  1995).    Pharmacological 
inhibition  of  angiogenesis  by  bevacizumab  during  organogenesis  is  likely  to  result  in  an  adverse 
outcome of pregnancy.  In conclusion, bevacizumab exposure during development presents a risk to the 
fetus.  Avastin  must  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  (see  also  discussion  on  clinical  safety,  and  SPC 
section 4.6). 
No  effect  of  bevacizumab  on  safety  pharmacology parameters like cardiac function, respiration rates, 
ophthalmic or electroretinography observations and urinalysis parameters were observed in the monkey 
studies.  Co-administration  of  bevacizumab  had  no  apparent  effect  on  the  toxicity  of  irinotecan,  5-
FU/FA. Data on the co-administration of bevacizumab and cisplatin/paclitaxel have also been submitted 
(data not shown). 
VEGF  is  known  to  be  involved  in  the  process  of  wound  healing  [104-106].  The  studies  submitted 
confirmed a reversible dose-related delay in wound healing in bevacizumab–treated rabbits from doses 
as  low  as  0.5  mg/kg  every  second  day.  In  cynomolgus  monkeys  of  varying  age,  the  wound  healing 
results were variable. Administration of bevacizumab to normal healthy rabbit did not affect hemostasis 
or exacerbate thrombosis when a thrombus has been induced by mechanical manipulation.  
Bevacizumab  did  not  accumulate  in  the  kidney  in  rabbits  treated  acutely  with  two  doses  up  to  100 
mg/kg.  The  administration  of  50  mg/kg  of  bevacizumab  did  not  exacerbate  renal  injury  induced  by 
cisplatin or protein overload in rabbit models.  
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of bevacizumab have not been performed. 
The omission of genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies is acceptable for this type of compound [107]. 
The  omission  of  prenatal  and  postnatal  development,  including  maternal  function  studies  can  be 
accepted, because the most important parts of reproductive toxicology were examined in the segment II 
study. The omission of local tolerance studies can be accepted because the toxicity studies demonstrated 
that intravenous bolus administrations of bevacizumab twice a week or once a week were well tolerated 
for up to 26 weeks. 
Considering  use  pattern,  dosages  and  degradation  pathways  of  IgG  type  antibodies  and  maximal 
estimated  amounts  of  Avastin  placed  on  the  EU  market,  no  exposure  levels  of  concern  to  the 
environment are to be expected. 
In summary, based on the panel of non-clinical studies performed, the concerns for use of bevacizumab 
in  humans  are  the  risk  of  impaired  bone  growth  in  growing  individuals,  the  risk  of  impaired  wound 
healing, and the adverse effects on fertility and foetal development. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical program for  bevacizumab comprises 12 trials in different tumour populations: colo-rectal 
cancer, breast cancer, lung (NSCLC) cancer, renal cancer and prostatic cancer. Two phase I studies in 
solid  tumours,  7  phase  II  studies  and  3  phase  III  studies  were  performed.  Five  of  the  studies  were 
performed  in  patients  with  metastatic  colo-rectal  cancer.  Three  of  these  studies  were  Genentech 
sponsored and conducted in the US and two were carried out in a NCI/ECOG collaboration. Only two 
of  the  studies  (AVF2107g  and  AVF0780g)  have  been  finally  analysed  and  form  the  basis  for  this 
marketing  authorisation  application.  The  clinical  studies  all  conformed  to the GCP guidelines and the 
appropriate Ethics Committees and Institutional Review Boards reviewed and approved the studies. 
Avastin  must  be  administered  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  experienced  in  the  use  of 
antineoplastic  medicinal  products.  It  is  recommended  that  bevacizumab  treatment  be  continued  until 
progression  of  the  underlying  disease.  The  recommended  dose  of  Avastin  is  5 mg/kg  of  body  weight 
given once every 14 days as an intravenous infusion. Dose reduction of Avastin for adverse events is not 
recommended. If indicated, Avastin should either be discontinued or temporary suspended as described 
in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC.    The  initial  Avastin  dose  should  be  delivered  over  90  minutes  as  an 
intravenous infusion. If the first infusion is well tolerated, the second infusion may be administered over 
60  minutes.  If  the  60-minute  infusion  is  well  tolerated,  all  subsequent  infusions  may  be  administered 
Page 22/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
over  30-minutes.  The  initial  dose  of  Avastin  should  be  administered  following  chemotherapy,  all 
subsequent doses can be given before or after chemotherapy. Avastin should not be administered as an 
intravenous  push  or  bolus.  Avastin  infusions  should  not  be  administered  or  mixed  with  dextrose  or 
glucose solutions (see SPC, sections 4.2 and 6.2). Instructions for use and handling are detailed in the 
SPC (see section 6.6). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Serum  bevacizumab  concentrations  were  measured  in  8  different  clinical  studies  in  patients  with 
different solid tumours. In all clinical trials, bevacizumab was administered as an IV infusion. The rate 
of infusion was based on tolerability, with an initial infusion duration of 90 minutes.  
More extensive sampling was made in one Phase I study (AVF0737g), where single and multiple doses 
from  0.1  mg/kg  to  10  mg/kg were  evaluated.  In  the  remaining  Phase  studies  mainly  peak  and  trough 
bevacizumab  concentrations  were  determined,  where  doses  ranged  from  3  to  20 mg/kg at intervals of 
two  or  three  weeks.  Four  of  the  studies  can  be  defined  as  dose-escalation  studies  (AVF0737g, 
AVF0776g,  AVF0757g,  AVF0780g)  with  bevacizumab  as  monotherapy  or  in  combination  with 
cytotoxic agents. Only two of the clinical studies have been performed with the target dose of 5 mg/kg/2 
weeks  (AVF0780g,  AVF02107g).  No  clinical  studies  were  performed  to  specifically  investigate  the 
pharmacokinetics. Rather, pharmacokinetic data were obtained as part of the clinical safety and efficacy 
studies. A summary of bevacizumab pharmacokinetic parameters by study is shown in Table 2. 
For  concomitantly  administered  drugs,  5-FU  was  analysed  by  HPLC  and  GC-MS,  irinotecan  was 
analysed by HPLC, capecitabine was analysed by tandem mass LC-MS. All of the above analyses are 
well  validated  and  the  methods  seem  suitable  for  their  purposes.  Pharmacokinetic  data  was  analysed 
using standard two-compartment and one-compartment methods. Terminal elimination half-life was also 
addressed  using  non-compartmental  methods.  Population  pharmacokinetics  was  performed  using  a 
mixed-effects model. The pharmacokinetic data were primarily derived using the original formulation of 
bevacizumab. The manufacturing process changes were not considered to alter the pharmacokinetics of 
bevacizumab. 
Page 23/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Table 2. Summary of bevacizumab pharmacokinetic parameters by study, mean ±SD 
Study 
Protocol No., 
Phase, 
Objective 
AVF0737g  
Phase  I,  Dose 
escalation 
AVF0761g  
Phase  I,  solid 
tumours 
AVF0775g  
Ph. II, HRPC 
AVF0776g  
Phase 
Efficacy 
MBC 
II, 
in 
AVF0757g  
Phase 
NSCLC 
II 
AVF0780g  
Phase II, CR 
N 
5 
Chemo. 
NA 
5 
5 
5 
5 
3 
4 
4 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Doxorubicin 
Carboplatin/paclit
axel 
5-FU/ FA 
15  NA 
17  NA 
41 
16 
30 
32 
34 
Paclitaxel/ 
carboplatin 
Paclitaxel/ 
carboplatin 
5-FU/FA 
28 
5-FU/FA 
Group 
CL 
(mL/day/kg) 
9.29 
 ± 7.07 
5.07 
 ± 2.39 
3.27 
 ± 0.81 
3.65 
 ± 2.10 
2.75 
 ± 0.47 
3.74 
 ± 0.555 
2.48 
 ± 0.436 
3.28 
(cid:0)
 0.857 
2.71 
 ± 0.746 
2.95 
 1.29 
2.74 
 ± 1.11 
3.15 
 ± 0.75 
2.98 
 ± 1.39 
2.75 
 ± 1.16 
2.79 
 ± 0.849 
2.78 
 ± 0.663 
3.1 c 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
0.1 
q 1 week 
0.3 
q 1 week 
1.0 
q 1 week 
3.0 
q 1 week 
10 
q 1 week 
3 
q 1 week 
3 
q 1 week 
3 
q 1 week 
10 
q 2 week 
3 
q 2 week 
10 
q 2 week 
20 
q 2 week 
7.5 
q 3 week 
15 
q 3 week 
5 
q 2 week 
10 
q 2 week 
5 
q 2 week 
15 
q 3 week 
NA 
NA 
50.1 
 ± 17.0 
60.3 
 ± 7.30 
60.4 
 ± 18.8 
53.4 
 ± 12.0 
53.0 
 ± 10.9 
NA 
Vc (mL/kg)  Vss (mL/kg) 
48.0 
 ± 17.4 
48.6 
 ± 13.0 
37.9 
 ± 7.77 
41.4 
 ± 12.0 
43.5 
 ± 12.6 
64.8 
 ± 8.68 
51.7 
 ± 14.0 
56.0 
 ± 12.3 
46.1 
 ± 5.54 
39.0 
 ± 9.45 
40.1 
 ± 9.58 
39.0 
 ± 7.28 
42.9 
 ± 9.10 
39.4 
 ± 8.69 
45.4 
 ± 9.02 
46.1 
 ± 8.84 
40.3 c 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
t1/2 alpha 
(days) 
NA 
1.90 
 ± 0.283 
1.30 
 ± 0.535 
0.844 
 ± 0.143 
2.17 
 ± 0.573 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
t1/2  beta 
(days) 
5.21 
 ± 2.41 
10.4 
 ± 5.34 
14.7 
 ± 6.92 
12.8 
 ± 6.60 
14.2 
 ± 3.36 
12.1 
± 0.603 
14.2 
 ± 1.55 
12.51 
 ± 4.41 
12.7 
 ± 3.93 
9.78 
 ± 2.22 
10.79 
 ± 2.72 
8.85 
 ± 1.93 
11.2 
 ± 3.55 
10.7 
 ± 2.64 
12.0 
 ± 3.22 
12.0 
 ± 3.47 
NA 
a 
MRT 
(days) 
7.40 
± 3.44 
13.9 
 ± 6.11 
19.9 
 ± 9.25 
18.1 
 ± 9.36 
19.3 
 ± 3.18 
17.4 
 ± 0.854 
20.6 
 ± 2.26 
18.1 
 ± 6.36 
18.3 
 ± 5.67 
14.1 
 ± 3.20 
15.6 
 ± 3.91 
12.8 
 ± 2.79 
16.2 
 ± 5.12 
15.5 
 ± 3.81 
17.3 
 ± 4.65 
17.4 
 ± 5.00 
13.1 d 
g(cid:127)day/mL) 
AUCinf 
µ
(
18.5 
 ± 14.3 
68.7 
 ± 26.8 
322 
 ± 84.0 
1073 
 ± 595 
3730 
 ± 722 
814 
 ± 122 
1243 
 ± 241 
966 
 ± 256 
3963 
 ± 1112 
1146 
 ± 374 
4047 
 ± 1243 
6696 
 ± 1600 
2950 
 ± 1085 
6162 
 ± 1897 
2009 
 ± 653 
3810 
 ± 1002 
1610 e 
7640 
 ± 1940 
214 
b 
19 
Arm 2:IFL  
Arm 3: 5-FU/FA 
Capecitabine 
AVF2107g  
Phase III, CR 
AVF2119g  
Phase III, MBC 
Abbreviations: 5-FU/FA, 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid; CR , colorectal carcinoma; HRPC,  hormone-refractory prostate 
carcinoma; MBC, metastatic breast carcinoma; NA, not applicable; NSCLC, non small-cell–lung carcinoma 
a 
t1/2 beta when data fitted to two-compartment model or t1/2 K10 when one-compartment model was used. 
Population PK parameter estimates based on n= 214 from Arms 2 and 3. 
Parameters normalized to a 80-kg subject.  
2.08 
 ± 0.513 
17.0 
 ± 4.07 
11.8 
 ± 2.82 
34.3 
 ± 7.62 
NA 
NA 
NA 
b 
c 
d  MRT was calculated as 1/K (where K=clearance/volume). 
e 
AUC was calculated as dose/clearance. 
• 
Absorption  
No absorption studies have been conducted. 
• 
Distribution 
In  study  AVF0737g,  the  mean  steady state volume of distribution (Vss) for bevacizumab (dose range: 
0.1–10  mg/kg)  ranged  from  50  to  60  mL/kg.  No  change  in  Vss  was  observed  with  increasing 
bevacizumab dose. Vss was not calculated in the other studies as the applicant considers Vss and Vc  to be 
similar. The mean central volume of distribution (Vc) in the eight clinical studies ranged from 34 to 65 
mL/kg.  No  systematic  change  in  Vc  was  observed  with  increasing  bevacizumab  dose.  Based  on  a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis of 491 subjects receiving Avastin weekly, every 2 weeks, or every 
3 weeks, in doses  ranging from 1 to 20 mg/kg, the volume of the central compartment (Vc) was 2.92l.  
In  study  AVF0761g  the  mean  bevacizumab  Vc  was  higher  in  the  doxorubicin  group  than  in  the  two 
other chemotherapy groups. Generally there was a tendency towards higher Vc in this study compared to 
the other studies. The distribution to tumour tissue was not studied.  
Page 24/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 

 
 
• 
Elimination 
No  human  studies  on  the  metabolism  of  bevacizumab  have  been  performed.  It  is  expected  that  the 
metabolism  of  bevacizumab  follows  the  general  route  of  metabolism  of  IgG  class  antibodies. 
Bevacizumab  clearance  was  0.231 L/day.  The  volume  of  the  central  compartment  (Vc)  and  clearance 
correspond to an initial half-life  of 1.4 days and a terminal half-life of about 20 days. This half-life is 
consistent with the terminal elimination half-life for human endogenous IgG, which is 18 to 23 days. In 
patients  with  low  albumin  (≤ 29g/dL)  and  high  alkaline  phosphatase  (≥ 484U/L)  (both  markers  of 
disease  severity), bevacizumab clearance was approximately 20% higher than in patients with median 
laboratory values. 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab as monotherapy after single or repeated doses was tested over a 
dose  range  of  0.1  to  10  mg/kg  in  study  AVF0737g.  It  appeared  that  the  PK  of bevacizumab  is  dose 
independent,  except  for  doses  <1  mg/kg.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  bevacizumab  appears  to  be  linear 
over the dose range 1 to 10 mg/kg.  
Comparing single dose and short-term multiple dosing (four doses) of bevacizumab using all available 
data in study AVF0737g, the overall CL estimates were 2.9% higher using the single-dose data, and the 
Vc estimates were 3.2% lower. 
AUC0-inf in study AVF0737g increased more than dose-proportionally from 0.1 to 10 mg/kg (Table 2). 
However, for the dose range >1 mg/kg AUC0-inf   increased dose proportionally.    
In four Phase II studies, AVF0775g, AVF0776g, AVF0757g and AVF0780g, the serum concentrations 
of bevacizumab following multiple doses every 2 or 3 weeks were followed for up to 6–12 months in 
some subjects. In the first study, time to steady state was not estimated even though some concentration 
data  were  available,  while  in  study  AVF0776  time  to  steady  state  was  estimated  to  be  ~70  days.  In 
studies  AVF0757g  and  AVF0780g  the  time  to  steady state was estimated  to be ~  100 days, which is 
consistent with the estimated half-life of ~ 20 days based on population PK analysis.  
In  all  phase  II  multiple-dosing  studies,  the  mean  bevacizumab  concentrations  following  the  last  dose 
were higher than the concentrations following the first dose. The accumulation index was calculated by 
comparing average bevacizumab trough concentrations at steady state (Ctrough, ss) with the average trough 
concentrations following the first dose (Ctrough, first). An accumulation index of 1.4-2.9 was calculated for 
bevacizumab  administered  every  2  or  3  weeks.  Based  on  the  estimated  β  half-life  of  ~20  days 
(population PK estimate), the expected accumulation index was calculated. Based on this, a 2.6 and 1.9 
fold  accumulation  of  bevacizumab  is  expected  at  steady  state  following  dosing  every  2  or  3  weeks, 
respectively.   
• 
Special populations 
There are no studies specifically performed in special populations. No studies have been conducted to 
investigate the pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab in paediatric patients. No studies have been conducted 
to investigate the pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
A population pharmacokinetic model was made using a non-linear mixed effects-model. Data from all 8 
studies that have yielded pharmacokinetic data have been pooled and analysed. The analysis included a 
total  of  4629  bevacizumab  concentrations  for  491  subjects  who  received  IV  infusion  doses  weekly, 
every  2  weeks,  or  every  3  weeks  at  doses  ranging  from  1  to  20  mg/kg.  Serum  bevacizumab 
concentration–time data were modelled using a population analysis approach to estimate bevacizumab 
population PK parameters (mean and intersubject variability) as well as relationships between the PK 
parameters  and  various  covariates.  In  the  final  multivariate  model,  weight,  gender,  albumin,  SGOT, 
alkaline  phosphatase,  and  chemotherapy  were  statistically  significantly  associated  with  bevacizumab 
pharmacokinetics.  No  significant  difference  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  bevacizumab  was  observed  in 
relation to age. 
The best structural model was a two-compartment model with first order elimination. Population mean 
parameters was CL = 0.195 L/day; Vc = 2.98 L; and terminal t1/2 = 24.1 days. Intersubject variability 
Page 25/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
for CL and Vc was 33.6% and 26.7 %, respectively, in the base model. The covariate effects in the final 
model  explained  about  40% of intersubject variance for CL and 61% of intersubject variance for Vc. 
Body weight and sex were the most significant covariates to explain intersubject variability for both CL 
and  Vc.  Creatinine  clearance  did  not  significantly  influence  bevacizumab  clearance  in  this  analysis. 
Subjects with low serum albumin levels (< 29 g/L, 5th percentile) had a 19% higher CL, while subjects 
with higher alkaline phosphatase levels (> 483 IU/L, 95th percentile) had a 23% faster CL, compared 
with  the  typical  subject  with  median  values  of  albumin  and  alkaline  phosphatase.  In  the  final  model, 
bevacizumab CL was 26% faster in males compared with females, corresponding to a CL of 0.207 and 
0.262 L/day for the typical (subject with median covariates) female and male subjects, respectively. For 
the final model, after  correcting for body weight, male subjects had a larger Vc (+ 22%) than females, 
with the corresponding Vc of 2.66 and 3.25 L for female and male subjects, respectively.  
The patients included in the population PK analysis were Caucasian (416 patients, representing 85%), 
Black (47 patients, representing 10%), Hispanic (17 patients, representing 3%), and Other (11 patients, 
representing  2%).  An  evaluation  of  impact  on  race  could  not  be  made.  The  population  PK  analysis 
revealed no impact of age on the PK of bevacizumab. Children were not allowed to participate in any of 
the studies. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No in vitro  studies were performed. Formal in vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not performed. 
However  detailed  pharmacokinetic  data was obtained from several studies in which bevacizumab was 
administered concomitantly with various other antineoplastic drugs.  
In  Phase  II  Study  AVF0780g,  patients  with  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  received  5-FU  (500 
mg/m2/week)/FA  (500  mg/m2/week)  with  or  without  bevacizumab.  Plasma  5-FU  concentrations  were 
determined  in  19  persons  who  received  10  mg/m2/2  weeks  bevacizumab.  The  individual  5-FU 
concentration-time  profiles  at  day  0  (before  bevacizumab)  and  at  day  35  (after  three  doses  of 
bevacizumab) showed no systematic changes, however, data were variable. 
In  Study  AVF2107g  (Phase  III),  patients  with  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  received  irinotecan  (125 
mg/m2)/5-FU  (500  mg/m2/week)/FA  (20  mg/m2/week)  without  (Arm  1)  or  with  bevacizumab  (5 
mg/m2/2  weeks,  Arm  2), or 5-FU (500 mg/m2/week)/FA (500 mg/m2/week) with bevacizumab (5 mg/ 
m2/2  weeks,  Arm  3). Concentrations  of  irinotecan  and  its  active  metabolite,  SN38,  were  measured  in 
about  50  subjects  in each of the arms 1 and 2, 43 days after bevacizumab or placebo administration. 
The  ratios  (95%  CI)  for  dose-normalised  AUC0-5hr  for  irinotecan  with  or  without  bevacizumab  and 
SN38 were 1.10 (0.96, 1.27) and 1.33 (1.07, 1.65), respectively, indicating increased SN38 exposure in 
bevacizumab-treated  subjects.  Bevacizumab  disposition  was  studied  in  about  100  persons  per  arm  in 
arms 2 and 3. Estimates for clearance of bevacizumab were similar in the two arms, indicating that the 
addition of irinotecan to 5-FU/FA/bevacizumab does not affect the pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab. 
In Study AVF2119g (Phase III), patients with  metastatic  breast cancer were treated with capecitabine 
(1875-2500  mg/m2  daily  for  2  weeks  every  3rd  week)  with  or  without  bevacizumab  (15  mg/m2/3 
weeks).  AUC  measurements  for  capecitabine  and  metabolites (5´-DFUR and 5-FU) (cycle 1, week 2) 
were  calculated  for  about  20  subjects  in  each  group.  No  significant  difference  in  capecitabine  and 
metabolites exposure was found between the two groups. 
Discussion on Clinical PK 
The pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab have been reasonably well studied in various patient populations, 
following  intravenous  infusion.  The  pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab is best characterized by a two-
compartment  model.  Apparent  dose proportionality, as assessed by clearance, was observed for doses 
above  1  mg/kg/day  whereas  lower  doses  were  associated  with  higher  levels  of  clearance.  After  four 
multiple IV doses (on Days 0, 28, 35, and 42), the clearance of bevacizumab ranged from 2.75 to 3.65 
mL/day/kg.  The  central  volume  of  distribution  ranged  from  37.9–48.6  mL/kg  at  all  doses,  which  is 
about the human plasma volume of 43 mL/kg. Protein binding has not been studied. The estimated mean 
terminal half-life of bevacizumab at doses > 1 mg/kg ranged from 13 to 19 days. No studies have been 
performed  in  special  populations.  The  knowledge  on  bevacizumab  pharmacokinetics  in  these 
populations origin from the population pharmacokinetic model derived. A non-linear mixed-effect model 
Page 26/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
based on data from all 8 pharmacokinetic studies was developed. The final model explained about 40% 
the observed variability in CL, with the single most significant variables being body weight and gender. 
Simulation of plasma concentrations using the model yielded result fairly comparable to those actually 
observed. A weight-based dosing scheme seems reasonably justified by these data.  
The  metabolism  of  bevacizumab  has  not  been  specifically  studied.  Bevacizumab  is  assumed  to  be 
eliminated by the same mechanism as other IgG antibodies.  
No formal drug interaction studies with other antineoplastic agents have been conducted. However, the 
existing  data  suggest  that  bevacizumab  does  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  5-FU,  carboplatin, 
paclitaxel, and doxorubicin to a clinically relevant extent (see SPC section 4.5). 
Plasma protein binding studies are lacking. However, this is considered acceptable as bevacizumab is a  
high molecular weight protein (149 000 Daltons). 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
The  suggested  mechanism  of  action  is  supported  by  results  of  in  vitro  studies  that are referred in the 
non-clinical  section.  No  studies  investigating  the  pharmacodynamics  and  mechanism  of  action  of 
bevacizumab have been performed in humans.  
• 
Primary and secondary pharmacology 
In  vitro  studies  using  human  umbilical  vein  endothelial  cells  (HUVEC)  explored  the  effect  of 
bevacizumab on VEGF-induced effects. In study 1765-582-RPT-1 HUVEC cells were incubated with 
bevacizumab  (3.9–1000  ng/mL)  and 10 ng/ml of rhVEGF165, rhVEGF121, or rhVEGF110. Proliferation 
induced by all splice variants of VEGF was dose-dependently inhibited by bevacizumab, with IC50s in 
the  range  of  32-86  ng/mL.  In  study  1765-582-RPT-2  HUVEC  cells  were  incubated  with  50  ng/mL 
VEGF,  with  or  without  bevacizumab  (500  ng/mL),  and  bevacizumab  abolished  VEGF-induced  nitric 
oxide  production.  In  study 1765-582-RPT-3, bevacizumab at a concentration ratio of 10:1 effectively 
abolished  VEGF-induced  permability  in  HUVEC,  and  in  study  1765-582-RPT-4  bevacizumab  (500 
mg/mL)  abolished  the  cell  survival  activity  induced  by  50  ng/mL  rhVEGF.  Thus  bevacizumab  was 
shown  to  inhibit  VEGF-induced  pharmacological  activity  in  human  umbilical  vein  endothelial cells  at 
concentrations 10-fold (3-fold at molar basis) above those of VEGF. 
In  Phase  I  (AVF0737g,  AVF0761g)  and  Phase  II  (AVF0757g,  AVF0775g,  AVF0776g,  AVF0780g) 
clinical  trials  total  serum  or  plasma  VEGF  were  investigated  as  a  pharmacodynamic  endpoint. 
AVF0737g  was  a  dose-escalating  trial  in  which  bevacizumab  was  administered  at  five  dose  levels 
ranging from 0.1 to 10 mg/kg. Total serum VEGF concentrations were similar between the 0.1 and 0.3 
mg/kg doses and remained stable during the study, while following bevacizumab doses of 1-10 mg/kg 
total  serum  VEGF  concentrations  increased  rapidly  over  7  days  and  then  declined  following 
bevacizumab  elimination.  Subsequent  weekly  doses  (at  day  28,  35,  and  42)  further  increased  VEGF 
concentrations. Bevacizumab was administered as a multidose regimen (3-20 mg/kg every 1 to 3 weeks) 
in the subsequent five Phase I/II clinical trials. Total plasma VEGF concentrations were monitored. In 
all studies, total VEGF concentrations increased with increasing bevacizumab doses and bevacizumab 
serum concentrations.  
Hypertension,  mucocutaneous  bleeding,  thromboembolic  events,  and  proteinuria  were  identified  as 
bevacizumab-related  adverse  events  (see  section  IV  Clinical  safety),  all  of  which  may  be  related  to 
VEGF antagonism through e.g. reduced endothelial nitric oxide synthesis (see study 1765-582-RPT-2) 
and other VEGF antagonism-related effects. 
Discussion on Clinical PD 
Bevacizumab binds VEGF, thereby inhibiting binding of VEGF to the VEGF receptors and inhibition of 
VEGF-induced tumour angiogenesis. No studies investigating the pharmacodynamics and mechanism of 
action of bevacizumab have been performed in humans. 
Page 27/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
In  human  umbilical  vein  endothelial  cells  (HUVEC)  bevacizumab  dose-dependently  inhibited  VEGF-
induced proliferation, and abolished VEGF-induced effects on nitric oxide production, cell permeability, 
and cell survival. 
The  total  plasma  or  serum  VEGF  concentration  was  used  as  the  sole  surrogate  pharmacodynamic 
marker  reaction.  This  may  be  the  best  in  vivo  marker  at  the  present  time,  but  it  remains  less  than 
satisfactory as the true relation between VEGF and the effect of bevacizumab is virtually unknown. It 
seems  plausible that  some association exist as VEGF concentrations increases with increasing plasma 
concentrations  of  bevacizumab.  However  the  interpretation  of  this,  especially  with  respect  to  optimal 
dose selection is unclear. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response study(ies) 
Four  of  the  studies  can  be  defined  as  dose-escalation  studies  (AVF0737g,  AVF0776g,  AVF0757g, 
AVF0780g)  with  bevacizumab  as  monotherapy  or  in  combination  with  cytotoxic  agents.  Only  one  of 
these studies has been performed in the target population (AVF0780g). 
Maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD)  was  not  reached  in any of the clinical studies. Based on pre-clinical 
results  (see  Non-Clinical  Assessment  Report)  and  the  pharmacokinetic  results  in  the  Phase  I  trial 
AVF0737g, doses of 5  mg/kg/2 weeks and 10 mg/kg/2 weeks were chosen for the Phase II colorectal 
trial  AVF0780g.  Based  on  pharmacokinetic  modelling  these  doses  were  predicted  to  result  in  steady 
state  trough  concentrations  of  ~50  µg/mL  and  ~100  µg/mL,  respectively.  At  the  dose  of  5  mg/kg/2 
weeks  the  circulating  VEGF  was,  on  average, > 98% bound with bevacizumab. Significant inhibition 
was  maintained  throughout  a dosing  interval.  Any  further  increase in the dose of bevacizumab would 
result in minor additional inhibition of circulating VEGF. 
• 
Main study(ies)   
Three  study  reports  of  controlled  clinical  studies  pertinent  to  the  claimed  indication  were  submitted. 
AVF2107g  was  a  phase  III  randomized,  active-controlled  clinical  trial  to  evaluate  bevacizumab  in 
combination  with  IFL  and  Roswell-Park regimens in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer [108]. 
AVF2192g was a phase II, double-blind, randomized, active-controlled clinical trial of bevacizumab in 
combination  with  5-FU/FA  chemotherapy  in  subjects  with  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  who  are  not 
optimal  candidates  for  first-line  irinotecan  [109].  AVF0780g  was  a  phase  II,  multidose,  randomized 
clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab in combination with 
5-FU/FA as compared to 5-FU/FA alone in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer [110]. 
Study AVF 2107g 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
This was a multicentre, randomized, active-controlled phase III clinical trial. The main inclusion criteria 
were  histologically  confirmed  colorectal  carcinoma  with  evidence  of  metastases  (i.e.  by  radiographic 
imaging or biopsy), ECOG performance status of 0 or 1, life expectancy of > 3 months, bidimensionally 
measurable  disease  (minimum  of  two  lesions).  The  main  exclusion  criteria  were:  prior  chemotherapy 
other  than  adjuvant  fluoropyrimidines  in  combination  with  FA  and/or  levamisole,  administration  of 
adjuvant  fluoropyrimidines  in  combination  with  FA  and/or  levamisole  completed ≤12 months prior to 
Day  0;  prior  radiotherapy  to  a  measurable,  metastatic  lesion(s)  to  be  used  to  measure  response; 
radiation  therapy  within  14  days  prior  to  Day  0;  proteinuria  at  baseline  or  clinically  significant 
impairment  of  renal  function;  clinically  significant  cardiovascular  disease;  clinical  laboratory  values: 
neutrophil count <1500/µ L, platelet count <75,000/µL, INR ≥1.5, total bilirubin >1.6 mg/dL, AST or 
ALT  ≥5  times  upper  limit  of  normal  for  subjects  with  documented  liver  metastases;  >2.5  times  the 
upper limit of  normal for subjects without evidence of liver metastases, serum creatinine >2.0 mg/dL, 
hemoglobin <9 g/dL; major surgery procedure within 28 days prior to Day 0. 
Treatments 
Page 28/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
The  patients  were  randomized  to  one  of  three  regimens.  Arm  1:  placebo  plus  bolus-  IFL  (‘Saltz’) 
regimen consisting of 125 mg/m2 irinotecan, 500 mg/m2 5-FU by IV bolus injection, 20 mg/m2 FA by 
IV bolus, administered in repeating 6-week cycles consisting of weekly treatments for 4 weeks followed 
by  2  weeks  of  rest.  Arm  2:  bevacizumab  5  mg/kg  IV  infusion  (90 
30  min)  once  every  2  weeks 
(regardless of possible chemotherapy delays) plus bolus-IFL regimen as in arm 1. Arm 3:  bevacizumab 
as in arm 2 plus bolus 5-FU/FA (‘Roswell Park’) regimen (5-FU 500 mg/m2+FA 20 mg/m2) weekly for 
6  weeks  of  every  8-  week  cycle.    Arm  3  was  added  since  the  safety  of  the  IFL  combination  was  not 
sufficiently  known.  An  interim  safety  analysis  was  planned  to  be  performed  by  an  independent  data 
monitoring  committee  (DMC)  when  100  patients  had  been  entered  per  arm  in  order  to  determine 
whether it was feasible to continue the trial with arm 1 and 2 only. The DMC concluded, following their 
review, that the safety profile of the IFL plus bevacizumab regimen (arm 2) was acceptable. Enrolment 
in  arm  3  was  then  closed  while  it  continued  into  arm  1  and  2  until  400  patients  per  arm  had  been 
included.  
→
Patients were treated until progression or for a maximum of 16 treatment cycles (96 weeks).  Second-
line treatment could be given within or outside the protocol. Patients in the bevacizumab treatment arms 
were  eligible  to  discontinue  chemotherapy  and  continue  bevacizumab  alone  if  they  had  a  confirmed 
complete response or unacceptable chemotherapy-related toxicity. Patients in the control arm were not 
allowed to cross over to bevacizumab. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  (survival)  and  safety  of  the  ad-on  treatment  with 
multiple doses of bevacizumab (arm 1 vs. arm 2). Secondary objectives were to evaluate the efficacy by 
response  rate  (CR  or  PR),  time  to  progression  ,  duration  of  response  and  quality  of  life.  Further  to 
evaluate PK and disposition of bevacizumab. Other objectives: comparison of arm 3 vs. arm 2 results, 
evaluation of efficacy and safety in the second-line therapy. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary outcome, duration of survival, was defined as the time from randomization to death from 
any  cause.  All  reported  deaths  were  included,  whether  the  death  occurred  during  first-  or  second-line 
therapy or following treatment discontinuation.  
The  secondary  outcome  measures  included  progression  free  survival  (PFS)  during  first-line  therapy 
assessed by the investigator according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST). 
Progression-free survival during first line therapy was defined as the time from randomisation to disease 
progression  or  death  during  first-line  therapy.  Data  for  subjects  who  received  second-line  therapy 
without having documented disease progression and who did not die within 30 days of last dose of first-
line therapy were censored at the time of the last tumour assessment. This was done to avoid bias since 
all patients receiving bevacizumab second-line therapy had to remain in the study and were followed for 
progression,  whereas  patients  receiving  other  types  of  second-line  therapy  were  only  followed  for 
survival.   
Responses  were  assessed  only  by  the  investigators.  No  independent  review  of  the  data  was  deemed 
necessary, as this was a double-blind study with overall survival as the primary endpoint. Assessments 
were done every six weeks for the first 24 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter. PFS was defined as the 
time  from  randomisation  to  disease  progression  or  death  due  to  any  cause  during  first-line  therapy. 
Objective response rate during first-line therapy was defined as a complete response or partial response 
according to RECIST determined on two consecutive investigator assessments ≥ 4 weeks apart during 
first-line  therapy.  Duration  of  objective  response  was  determined  for  the  subset  of  subjects  who 
achieved objective response during first-line therapy. Duration of objective response was defined as the 
time  from  the  first  tumour  assessment  that  supported  the  subject’s  objective  response  to  the  time  of 
disease  progression  or  death  due  to  any  cause  during  first-line  therapy.  Time  to  deterioration  in QoL 
was measured by FACT-C.   
Sample size 
The  sample  size  estimate  was  based  on  80%  power  to  detect  a  hazard  ratio  of  0.75  at  the  5% 
significance level (two-sided), which corresponds approximately to a 33% improvement in median time 
Page 29/61 
EMEA 2005 

 
 
to  death  from  15  months  in  the  control group to 20 months in the bevacizumab group. Based on  two 
planned interim analyses, the required number of deaths in the two principal treatment arms (1 and 2) at 
the final analysis was 385. It was estimated that a total of 800 patients (60 per month for 13 months) 
and  a  follow-up  period  of  10  months  would  provide  385  deaths.  Four  hundred  patients  in  the 
bevacizumab group would provide 87% power to detect an adverse event that occurs at a rate of 0.5%. 
The FACT-C QoL assessment was to be collected in 100 patients in each treatment group. This would 
provide 80% power to detect an effect size (mean/SD) of 0.4. 
Randomization 
Randomization was based on a minimization algorithm with stratification for centre, number of organ 
sites  with  disease  (1  versus  >1),  ECOG  performance  status  (0  versus  1),  and  site  of  original  disease 
(colon vs rectal).  
Blinding (masking) 
Patients in arm 1 and 2 received the study drug in a double-blind fashion during the treatment period. 
A  complete  evaluation  of  safety information took place when 300  subjects had been randomised (100 
subjects per treatment arm). At that time, an interim analysis of safety was conducted by an unblinded, 
independent  Data  Monitoring  Committee  (DMC)  evaluating  all  adverse  events  as  well  as  subjects 
status, study drug administration, laboratory studies, and vital signs.   
Subjects in Arms 1 and 2 were unblinded for the following reasons: completion of the study, complete 
response, disease progression, and toxicity. 
Statistical methods 
Formal hypothesis testing was only performed for the treatment comparison between the two principal 
treatment  arms  (arms  1  and  2).  Patients  still  alive  were  censored  as  of  the  last  date  the  patient  was 
known to be alive. Overall survival was compared by a stratified logrank test. The stratification factors 
were  ECOG  performance  status,  number  of  organ  sites  with  disease,  and  site  of  primary  tumour  (all 
dichotomous).  In  secondary  analyses,  the  hazard  ratio  was  estimated  in a  stratified  Cox  proportional 
hazards model. Results from unstratified analyses were also presented. A Lan-DeMets implementation 
of the O’Brien-Fleming α-spending function was used to control the significance level for two interim 
analyses. 
Objective  response  was  compared  between  treatment  arms  using  the  chi-square  test.  Patients  without 
post baseline tumour assessment were counted as non-responders.  
Time  to  deterioration  of  QoL  (TDQ)  was  assessed  for  patients  with  a  baseline  and  a  post  baseline 
measurement and compared between groups by the logrank test. Deterioration was defined as a decline 
of ≥3 for colorectal cancer specific questions (CCS), ≥7 for TOI-C (the sum of physical and functional 
well  being and CCS), and ≥9 for the FACT-C. Patients progressing or dying during first-line therapy 
were  treated  as  having  deterioration  in  QoL.  The  Wilcoxon  rank  sum  test  was  used  to  compare  the 
change from baseline to the last available assessment.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
At  least  one  dose  of  the  assigned  study  treatment  was  received  by  897/923  (97.2%)  patients  (396  in 
Arm 1, 392 in Arm 2 and 109 in Arm 3). The mean duration of treatment was 31.1 weeks in the control 
arm (Arm 1) and 40.4 weeks in the bevacizumab treatment arm (Arm 2). The main reason for treatment 
discontinuation was disease progression (64.5% in Arm 1 and 50% in Arm 2). Discontinuation due to 
adverse events was similar in both treatment arms (6.6% in Arm 1 and 7.7% in Arm 2). More patients 
in  Arm  2  than  in  Arm  1  had  dose  reductions  for  5-FU  (80.6%  versus  68.4%)  and  irinotecan  (79.8% 
versus  69.1%).  Dose  intensity  percentages  for  study  drug  and  chemotherapy  were  slightly  lower  for 
patients in Arm 2 compared with those in Arm 1. 
Second-line treatment was well balanced between the two arms. Fifty-six percent of patients in Arm 1 
and 55% of patients in Arm 2 received second-line chemotherapy on or off study. Forty-seven patients 
Page 30/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
(11.9%) in the Arm 1 and 110 patients (28.1%) in Arm 2 received second-line treatment while on study. 
Use  of  oxaliplatin  (27%  versus  24%),  irinotecan  (10%  in  both  arms)  and  capecitabine  (23%  in  both 
arms) was similar in both arms. As per protocol none of the patients in the control arm received second-
line bevacizumab, while 107/392 and 55/109 in arms 2 and 3, respectively, did.  
The minimal follow-up time for survival was 11 months for the last patient randomized. 
Conduct of the study 
Three amendments of the protocol were made during the study. The first dealt with numbers of patients 
for  the  first  interim  analysis  (100  instead  of  50  per  arm)  and  other  details.  The  second  reported  the 
decision  to  stop  entrance  of  patients  into  arm  3.  The  third  dealt  with  irinotecan  treatment  and  other 
details. Eligibility exceptions were noted for 10% of the patients and major protocol deviations occurred 
in 3.5%. They were evenly distributed and did not seem to affect the validity of the comparison of arm 1 
and 2. 
Baseline data 
Demographic and disease baseline characteristics are shown in Table 3 and 4. The median age was 60 
years,  ECOG  performance  status  was  0  in  57%  of  the  patients,  78%  of  tumours  were  located  in  the 
colon  and  almost  all  (>99%)  were  adenocarcinomas.  More  patients  in  the  discontinued  bevacizumab 
plus  5-FU/FA  arm  (Arm  3)  had  previous  radiotherapy  (22%  versus  15%)  and  fewer  patients  had 
surgery  (81%  versus  87%).  Twenty-six  percent  of  the  patients  had  received  adjuvant  chemotherapy. 
The  most  frequent  metastatic  sites  were  liver  (78%),  lung  (48%)  and  lymph  nodes  (25%).  Fewer 
patients in the discontinued arm had lung lesions (39% in Arm 3 versus 48% in Arm 1 and 49% in Arm 
2). 
Table 3. Demographic and Baseline Characteristics in Study AVF2107g 
Arm 1 
b-IFL  Placebo 
(n = 411) 
Arm 2 
b-IFL  BV 
(n = 402) 
Arm 3 
5-FU/FA  BV 
(n = 110) 
Total 
(n = 923) 
Age (yr) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Range 
Sex 
Female 
Male 
Race/ethnicity 
59.2 (11.47) 
59.5 (11.29) 
59.7 (12.08) 
59.4 (11.45) 
60.0 
60.0 
61.5 
60.0 
21.0–83.0 
23.0–86.0 
29.0–88.0 
21.0–88.0 
163 (39.7%) 
165 (41.0%) 
41 (37.3%) 
369 (40.0%) 
248 (60.3%) 
237 (59.0%) 
69 (62.7%) 
554 (60.0%) 
American Indian or Alaskan 
Native 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.2%) 
Asian or Pacific Islander 
14 (3.4%) 
12 (3.0%) 
4 (3.6%) 
30 (3.3%) 
Black 
Hispanic 
White 
Other 
ECOG performance status 
0 
1 
2 
46 (11.2%) 
49 (12.2%) 
14 (12.7%) 
109 (11.8%) 
23 (5.6%) 
18 (4.5%) 
2 (1.8%) 
43 (4.7%) 
328 (79.8%) 
317 (78.9%) 
90 (81.8%) 
735 (79.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (1.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (0.4%) 
227 (55.2%) 
234 (58.4%) 
61 (55.5%) 
522 (56.6%) 
182 (44.3%) 
166 (41.4%) 
48 (43.6%) 
396 (43.0%) 
2 (0.5%) 
1 (0.2%) 
1 (0.9%) 
4 (0.4%) 
Abbreviations: BV, bevacizumab; b-IFL , bolus irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic acid; 5-FU/FA,  
5-fluorouracil/folinic acid.  
Page 31/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Disease baseline characteristics in Study AVF2107g in Colorectal Cancer 
Duration of disease (months) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Range 
Duration of metastatic disease (months) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Range 
Location of primary tumour 
Colon 
Rectum 
Histologic classification 
Adenocarcinoma 
Mucinous adenocarcinoma 
All Other 
Number of organ sites with metastases 
1 
> 1 
Prior cancer treatment 
Surgery 
Radiotherapy 
Systemic chemotherapy 
Neo-adjuvant 
Adjuvant 
Metastatic 
Other 
Treated with first-line therapy 
Completed study 
Discontinued first-line therapy 
Death 
Disease progression 
Adverse event 
Lost to follow-up 
Patient’s decision 
Physician’s decision 
Not treated with study drug 
Discontinued 
Disease progression 
Adverse event 
Physician’s decision 
Patient’s decision 
Treated with second-line therapy on 
study 
Arm 1 
b-IFL  Placebo 
(n = 411) 
Arm 2 
b-IFL  BV 
(n = 402) 
Arm 3 
5-FU/FA  BV 
(n = 110) 
16 (22.0) 
3 
1–142 
4 (9.2) 
2 
1–125 
15 (23.2) 
3 
1–170 
4 (9.2) 
2 
1–91 
16 (22.3) 
3 
1–107 
4 (8.8) 
2 
1–70 
Total 
(n = 923) 
16 (22.6) 
3 
1–170 
4 (9.1) 
2 
1–125 
334 (81.3%) 
77 (18.7%) 
310 (77.1%) 
92 (22.9%) 
77 (70.0%) 
33 (30.0%) 
721 (78.1%) 
202 (21.9%) 
384 (93.4%) 
21 (5.1%) 
6 (1.5%) 
373 (92.8%) 
26 (6.5%) 
3 (0.7%) 
104 (94.5%) 
6 (5.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
861 (93.3%) 
53 (5.7%) 
9 (1.0%) 
159 (38.9%) 
252 (61.6%) 
147 (36.6%) 
255 (63.4%) 
48 (43.6%) 
62 (56.4%) 
354 (38.4%) 
569 (61.8%) 
360 (87.6%) 
59 (14.4%) 
119 (29.0%) 
10 (2.4%) 
113 (27.5%) 
4 (1.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
396 (96.4%) 
4 (1.0%) 
359 (87.3%) 
13 (3.2%) 
265 (64.5%) 
27 (6.6%) 
2 (0.5%) 
25 (6.1%) 
27 (6.6%) 
15 (3.6%) 
15 (3.6%) 
2 (0.5%) 
1 (0.2%) 
3 (0.7%) 
9 (2.2%) 
47 (11.4%) 
350 (87.1%) 
60 (14.9%) 
108 (26.9%) 
11 (2.7%) 
96 (23.9%) 
7 (1.7%) 
1 (0.2%) 
392 (97.5%) 
8 (2.0%) 
313 (77.9%) 
14 (3.5%) 
201 (50.0%) 
31 (7.7%) 
1 (0.2%) 
39 (9.7%) 
27 (6.7%) 
10 (2.5%) 
10 (2.5%) 
2 (0.5%) 
2 (0.5%) 
3 (0.7%) 
3 (0.7%) 
110 (27.4%) 
89 (80.9%) 
24 (21.8%) 
35 (31.8%) 
7 (6.4%) 
29 (26.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (1.8%) 
109 (99.1%) 
8 (7.3%) 
98 (89.1%) 
7 (6.4%) 
71 (64.5%) 
11 (10.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (3.6%) 
5 (4.5%) 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.9%) 
55 (50.0%) 
799 (86.6%) 
143 (15.5%) 
262 (28.4%) 
28 (3.0%) 
238 (25.8%) 
11 (1.2%) 
3 (0.3%) 
897 (97.2%) 
20 (2.2%) 
770 (83.4%) 
34 (3.7%) 
537 (58.2%) 
69 (7.5%) 
3 (0.3%) 
68 (7.4%) 
59 (6.4%) 
26 (2.8%) 
26 (2.8%) 
4 (0.4%) 
3 (0.3%) 
6 (0.7%) 
13 (1.4%) 
212 (23.0%) 
Completed study 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.5%) 
8 (7.3%) 
10 (1.1%) 
Abbreviations: BV, bevacizumab; b-IFL, bolus irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic acid; 5-FU/FA,  
5-fluorouracil/folinic acid. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  response  rate  was  significantly  higher  in  the  bevacizumab  arm  (p=0.0036).  The  majority  of 
responses were partial responses (table 5). 
The  higher number of responses seen in the bevacizumab treatment arm was accompanied by a longer 
duration of response (10.4 months in Arm 2 versus 7.1 months in the Arm 1) (table III.7) 
Page 32/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 Objective Response, and duration, in the Phase III Metastatic CRC Study AVF2107g 
Arm 1 
IFL  Placebo 
(N = 411) 
143 (34.8%) 
(30.2%, 39.6%) 
Arm 2 
IFL  Bevacizumab 
(N = 402) 
180 (44.8%) 
(39.9%, 49.8%) 
0.0036 
10.0% 
(3.3%, 16.7%) 
9 (2.2%) 
134 (32.6%) 
15 (3.7%) 
165 (41.0%) 
Objective response  No. (%) 
95% CI 
p-value (χ2 ) 
Between-arm difference 
95% CI  
Best response  
CR 
PR 
Duration of objective response 
(months) 
Median 
95% CI 
Range 
7.06 
10.35 
(5.95, 9.07) 
(9.30, 11.66) 
1.31+ to 20.93+ 
1.08+ to 20.80+ 
25–75 percentile (months) 
4.7 – 11.8 
Censored observations 
56 (39.2%) 
6.7 – 15.0 
87 (48.3%) 
Abbreviations: + indicates censored observation; IFL,  irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic acid; CI,  confidence 
interval. 
Survival 
The  addition  of  bevacizumab  to  IFL  led  to  a  statistically  significant  prolongation  of  survival  with  an 
increase  in  median  duration  of  survival  from  15.6  months  in  Arm  1  to  20.3  months  in  Arm  2 
(p<0.0001)  (Fig.  1  and  Table  6).  Median  follow-up  time  for  survival  was  21  months.  A  similar 
proportion of patients in arms 1 and 2 received second-line treatment and the chemotherapy agents used 
were also similar. 
Figure 1. Duration of Survival in the Phase III Metastatic CRC Study AVF2107g 
Table 6. Duration of Survival in the Phase III Metastatic CRC Study AVF2107g 
Endpoint 
Arm 1 
 IFL + Placebo 
(N = 411) 
Arm 2 
 IFL + Bevacizumab 
(N = 402) 
Page 33/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoint 
Number of deaths 
Median Duration of survival 
(months), 95% CI 
Stratifieda Hazard ratio  
p-value (log-rank) 
Percentage of patients alive 
at 6 months 
at 12 months 
Arm 1 
 IFL + Placebo 
(N = 411) 
225 (55%) 
15.61 
Arm 2 
 IFL + Bevacizumab 
(N = 402) 
174 (43%) 
20.34 
 (14.29, 16.99) 
 (18.46, 24.18) 
0.660 
<0.0001 
85.5% 
63.4% 
89.3% 
74.3% 
45.1% 
at 24 months 
a Factors: ECOG PS, site of primary disease, number of metastatic sites. 
29.7% 
The robustness of this result was confirmed by alternative analyses (unstratified analyses, multivariate 
analyses). In addition, the survival benefit was confirmed in all patient subgroups defined by age, sex, 
race, performance status, location of primary tumour, prior adjuvant therapy and radiotherapy, duration 
of  metastatic  disease,  time  from  first  diagnosis,  baseline  tumour  burden,  baseline  albumin,  baseline 
alkaline phosphatase, baseline LDH or ECOG performance status (0 and ≥ 1) (Fig. 2). 
Figure 2. Duration of survival by baseline risk factor in Study AVF2107g 
CI = interval 
Hazard ratio < 1 indicates a lower hazard of death in the IFL + bevacizumab arm compared with the 
IFL + placebo arm. Size of circle is proportional to the number of patients in the subgroup. The 
horizontal line indicates the confidence interval. 
The primary result was substantiated by the results of the secondary efficacy parameters. The addition 
of  bevacizumab  to  IFL  also  resulted  in  a  significant  improvement  in  progression  free  survival  during 
first-line treatment (p<0.0001) (Fig. 3 and Table 7). 
Page 34/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Progression Free Survival in Study AVF2107g 
IFL + bevacizumab 
IFL + placebo 
Table 7. Progression Free Survival in Study AVF2107g 
Endpoint 
Patients with events 
Disease progression 
Death 
Progression-free survival (months) 
Arm 1 
 IFL + Placebo 
(N = 411) 
284 (69.1%) 
Arm 2 
 IFL + Bevacizumab 
(N = 402) 
230 (57.2%) 
266 
18 
215 
15 
Median (95% CI) 
Stratified Hazard ratio a  
p-value (log-rank) 
a Factors: ECOG PS, site of primary disease, number of metastatic sites. 
6.24 (5.59, 7.66) 
0.544 
< 0.0001 
10.55 (9.03, 11.04) 
Among  the  110 patients  randomised  to Arm 3 (5-FU/FA + Avastin), the median overall survival was 
18.3  months,  median  progression  free  survival  was  8.8  months,  overall  response  rate  was  39%  and 
median duration of response was 8.5 months. 
Ancillary analyses 
Adjustment for Risk Factors 
Results from subpopulation analyses show that the efficacy benefit from bevacizumab, as measured by 
duration  of  survival,  PFS,  and  objective  response  rate,  was  seen  across  all  pre-specified  patient 
subgroups,  including  those  defined  by  age,  sex,  race,  ECOG  performance  status,  location  of  primary 
tumour, prior adjuvant therapy, duration of metastatic disease, number of metastatic sites, years since 
colorectal  cancer  diagnosis,  prior  radiotherapy,  baseline  tumour  burden,  baseline  albumin,  baseline 
alkaline phosphatase, and baseline LDH.   Results from exploratory multivariate analyses also show a 
consistent and highly significant efficacy benefit after adjusting for prognostic factors.   
The best multivariate model for duration of overall survival included the following:  treatment, baseline 
ECOG performance status, baseline albumin, race, number of distinct organ sites with metastases, and 
baseline alkaline phosphatase (Table 8)  After adjusting for these factors, there remained a very strong 
benefit  of  treatment  with  bevacizumab.    This  adjusted  hazard  ratio  indicates  a  34%  reduction  in  the 
Page 35/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hazard  of  death  among  patients  who  received  bevacizumab  treatment  compared  with  patients  who 
received placebo. 
Table 8 Final Multivariate Model for Duration of Survival in Study AVF2107g 
Variable 
Hazard Ratio for 
Death (95% CI)  
p-value 
Treatment (bevacizumab vs. placebo) 
0.655 (0.534, 0.804) 
< 0.0001 
Baseline ECOG performance status 
(> 0 vs. 0) 
1.562 (1.262, 1.934) 
< 0.0001 
Baseline albumin (increasing value) 
0.472 (0.384, 0.581) 
< 0.0001 
Race (non-White vs. White) 
0.720 (0.552, 0.939) 
Number of distinct organs with 
metastatic sites (> 1 vs. 1) 
Baseline alkaline phosphatase 
(increasing value) 
CI=confidence interval; n= 781. 
1.285 (1.038, 1.592) 
0.015 
0.021 
1.001 (1.000, 1.001) 
0.098 
The  best  multivariate  model  for  PFS  included  the  following:    treatment,  baseline ECOG performance 
status, baseline albumin, and sex. After adjusting for these factors, there remained a very strong benefit 
of  treatment  with  bevacizumab.    The  hazard  ratio  indicates  a  44% reduction  in  the  hazard  of  disease 
progression or death among patients who received bevacizumab treatment compared with patients who 
received placebo (Table 9). 
Table 9. Final Multivariate Model for PFS in Study AVF2107g 
Variable 
Treatment (bevacizumab vs. placebo) 
Baseline ECOG performance status  
(> 0 vs. 0) 
Baseline albumin (increasing value) 
Sex (male vs. female) 
CI = confidence interval; n = 781. 
Hazard Ratio for 
Disease Progression 
or Death (95% CI) 
p-value 
0.557 (0.486, 0.665)  <0.0001 
1.385 (1.151, 1.666) 
0.0006 
0.785 (0.659, 0.935) 
0.820 (0.687, 0.978) 
0.007 
0.027 
The  best  multivariate  model  for  prediction  of  objective  response  included  the  following:    treatment, 
baseline  ECOG  performance  status,  prior  adjuvant  therapy,  number  of  distinct  organ  sites  with 
metastases, and baseline albumin (Table 10).  After adjusting for these factors, there remained a strong 
benefit of treatment with bevacizumab.  The odds of response for patients randomized to bevacizumab 
were about 1.5 times that for patients randomized to placebo.   
Table 10. Final Multivariate Model for Objective Response in Study AVF2107 
Variable 
Odds Ratio for 
Response (95% CI) 
Treatment (bevacizumab vs. placebo) 
1.483 (1.111, 1.980) 
p-value 
0.0075 
Prior adjuvant therapy (yes vs. no) 
0.447 (0.314, 0.635) 
< 0.0001 
Baseline albumin (increasing value) 
1.463 (1.090, 1.962) 
Baseline ECOG  (> 0 vs. 0) 
0.714 (0.526, 0.970) 
0.0121 
0.0313 
Number of distinct organs with metastatic 
sites (> 1 vs. 1) 
CI = confidence interval; n=781. 
0.745 (0.552, 1.004) 
0.0532 
Page 36/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Comparison of arm 1&2 vs arm 3 results 
Results for the 110 patients in Arm 3 were compared for efficacy with those of the first 100 patients in 
Arm 1 enrolled before the cut-off point of the interim safety analysis. Median duration of survival was 
18.27 months v. 15.08 months in the bevacizumab plus 5-FU/FA arm as compared to the placebo plus 
IFL arm  in  this subset of the patient population (log-rank p-value = 0.2521). Median progression-free 
survival was 8.77 months v. 6.83 months (log-rank p-value = 0.4192, stratified hazard ratio = 0.862, 
CI:  0.60,  1.24),  and  response  rate  was  40.0%  (95%  CI:  30.9%,  49.8%,  based  on  the  normal 
approximation to the binomial distribution) v. 37.0% (95% CI = 27.7%, 47.3%; χ2 p-value = 0.6556), 
respectively.  
Quality of life 
The addition of bevacizumab did not extend the time to deterioration in patients’ quality of life, nor did 
it contribute to a more rapid worsening of quality of life compared with standard first-line chemotherapy 
alone.  There was no statistically significant difference in the time to deterioration in colorectal cancer–
specific  (CCS)  score  between  treatment  arms  (d = 3;  p = 0.5807).    Median  time  to  deterioration  in 
quality of life, as measured by CCS, was 2.73 months in Arm 1 and 2.89 months in Arm 2.  Similarly, 
there were no significant differences observed in time to deterioration in quality of life, as measured by 
Trial Outcome Index, total Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy–Colorectal score, or change from 
baseline to last available quality-of-life score. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
An  analysis  across  trials  of  the  single  agent  activity  of  bevacizumab  was  performed  to  describe  the 
activity  of  single-agent  bevacizumab  in  Genentech-sponsored  Phase I  and  Phase II  clinical  trials  in 
metastatic NSCLC, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, and mixed solid tumours (data not 
shown). In the NCI-sponsored Phase III trial of the FOLFOX4 regimen ± bevacizumab in second-line 
metastatic colorectal cancer (Study E3200) the DMC discontinued enrollment in the third treatment arm 
of  5 mg/kg/wk  bevacizumab  (10 mg/kg/2wk)  alone  because  of  lack  of  efficacy  compared  with  the 
FOLFOX-containing regimens. The NCI-sponsored trial Study AVF0890s, a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled  trial  of  single-agent  bevacizumab  at  two  dose  strengths  in  patients  with  metastatic 
renal  cell  cancer  who  had  progressed  on  IL-2 therapy,  demonstrated  that  single-agent  bevacizumab 
could  prolong  PFS  in  this  disease.    Although  both  doses  prolonged  PFS  compared  with  placebo,  the 
5 mg/kg/wk  dose  (10 mg/kg/2wk)  showed  a  significantly  stronger  treatment  effect 
the 
1.5 mg/kg/wk dose (3 mg/kg/2wk) 
than 
The  estimated  treatment  effect  of  bevacizumab  combined  with  5-FU  based  regimens 5-FU/FA and 5-
FU/FA+Irinotecan is illustrated in Fig. 4 and 5. 
Page 37/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Figure 4. Summary of hazard ratios for overall survival with bevacizumab combined with 
different chemotherapy regimens in metastatic colorectal cancer (all randomized populations) 
Figure 5.  Summary of Hazard Ratios for Progression-free survival with bevacizumab combined 
with different chemotherapy regimens in metastatic colorectal cancer (all randomized populations) 
• 
Supportive studies 
Study AVF 0780g 
The study was an exploratory phase II, multidose, randomized, open-label, multicentre trial  performed 
in 8 centres in USA and  designed to evaluate the efficacy/safety of bevacizumab in combination with 5-
Page 38/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
FU/FA  as  compared  to  5-FU/FA  alone.  The  study  preceded  the  pivotal  study  discussed  above.  The 
patients should have measurable, metastatic, colorectal cancer previously untreated, except for surgery, 
radiotherapy  and  adjuvant  chemotherapy.  Randomization  was  stratified  by  centre,  prior  5-FU/FA 
treatment and prior pelvic irradiation. 
Treatment.    FA  500  mg/m2  and  bolus  5-FU  500  mg/m2  were  given  weekly  for  six  weeks  of every 8-
week cycle (“Roswell Park regimen”). (This regimen was the same as that used in Arm 3 in the pivotal 
trial).  Chemotherapy  was  given  for  up  to  six  cycles  unless  earlier  progression  occurred.  By 
randomization either placebo or 5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg bevacizumab was administered every two weeks 
for  a  maximum  of  24  doses  (48  weeks).  Patients  randomized  to  the  two  bevacizumab  arms  who  had 
CR, PR or SD at the end of their treatment period were eligible for additional bevacizumab treatment in 
extension study AVF0778g if they progressed within six months. Patients in the control arm could cross 
over  to  the  10  mg/kg  dose  of  bevacizumab  in  the  extension  study  after  progression.  Treatment  was 
given  for  the  remainder  of  the  48  weeks  treatment  period  or  until  disease  progression  following  a 
minimum  of  four  bevacizumab  doses.  The  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  based  on  the  investigator’s 
assessment  and  a  second  assessment  was  performed  by  an  independent  response  evaluation  facility 
blinded  to  the  type  of  treatment.  The  primary  objectives  were  time  to  progression  (patients  without 
documented  progression were censored at the time of last available tumour assessment), response and 
safety. Secondary objectives were survival, duration of response, quality of life and PK analyses. The 
bevacizumab arms were compared to the control arm but not to each other. 
A  summary  of  efficacy  results  for  studies  AVF0780g  is  shown  in Table 10b. A total of 104 patients 
were randomized into this study between June 20, 1998 and November 3, 1998. The median age was 64 
years.  19  %  of  the  patients  had  received  prior  chemotherapy  and  14  %  prior  radiotherapy.  98%  of 
tumours  were  adenocarcinomas.  By  chance,  more  women were randomized into the two bevacizumab 
arms (51% and 55% versus 25% in the control arm). Baseline characteristics of the two bevacizumab 
arms were  similar,  but  patients  in  the  placebo  arm  had  better prognostic factors compared to the test 
arms. Fewer patients in the placebo arm had low albumin levels (17% and 15% versus 6% in the control 
arm),  liver  metastases  (83%  and 82%  versus  69%  in  the control arm) and lung metastases (40% and 
36%  versus  22%  in  the  control  arm).  This  imbalance  could  have  biased  the  study  results  towards  a 
prolonged  time  to  progression  and  survival  in  the  placebo  arm.  Male/female  ratio  was  higher  in  the 
control  arm  (75/25)  than  in  the  5  mg  bevacizumab  arm  (49/51),  which  could  have  favoured  the 
experimental arm. Slightly fewer patients in the bevacizumab arms had received prior treatment of any 
kind (83% and 91% versus 97% in the control arm) and fewer patients in the bevacizumab 5 mg/kg arm 
had received prior chemotherapy (14% versus 22% in the control arm and 21% in the 10 mg arm). One 
hundred  two  patients  received  at  least  one  dose  of  the  assigned  study  drug:  35  patients  received  5-
FU/FA  alone, 35 patients  received bevacizumab 5 mg/kg plus 5-FU/FA and 32 patients bevacizumab 
10 mg/kg plus 5-FU/FA. The exposure to study treatment was consistent with time to progression and 
was  highest  for  the  treatment  arm  with  the  longest  time  to  progression  (bevacizumab  5  mg/kg).  The 
main reason for treatment discontinuation was in all groups disease progression. Twenty of 35 control 
patients  received  bevacizumab  after  disease  progression.  Two  additional  patients  crossed  over  early 
before disease progression. The minimal follow up in the study was 12 months, and median follow up 
was 15 months in all three treatment arms. 
Progression free survival, based on the investigator assessment as well as the blinded IRF assessment, 
was  longer  in  patients  receiving  bevacizumab  5  mg/kg.  In  both  assessments  the  difference  reached 
statistical significance (p=0.043 for investigator assessment and p=0.005 for the IRF assessment). For 
the 10 mg/kg treatment arm, significance was reached for the investigators ( p=0.027) but not the IRF 
assessment  (p=  0.217).  Adjusting  progression-free  survival  for  baseline  albumin  and  liver/lung 
metastases  increased  the  statistical  significance  of  the  treatment  effect  (p=0.003  for  the  5  mg/kg 
treatment  arm  and  p=0.095  in  the  10  mg/kg  treatment  arm).  The  response  rate  was  higher  in  both 
bevacizumab  arms,  but  statistically  significant  only  in  the  5  mg/kg  group  (40%  vs.  17%,  p=0.029). 
Survival was longer, especially in the 5 mg/kg treatment arm (fig. III.5), but statistical significance was 
not  reached  (p=0.07).  The  short  follow-up  in  this  study  did  not  allow  a  comprehensive  analysis  of 
survival. No differences in Quality of Life scores between the treatment groups were observed from the 
Page 39/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
FACT-C  questionnaire.  PK  assessments  revealed  no  correlation  between  plasma  AUC  and  time  to 
progression or survival. 
Study AVF2192g  
Study  AVF2192g was a double blind,  randomized phase II multicenter study comparing bevacizumab 
in  combination  with  5-FU/FA  as  first  line  treatment  for  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  in  patients  who 
were  not  optimal  candidates  for  first-line  irinotecan  treatment.  The  objective  of  the  trial  was  to 
demonstrate  that  the  addition  of  bevacizumab  leads  to  prolonged  survival. Secondary  endpoints  were 
progression-free survival, response rate, duration of response, quality of life and safety. Patients had to 
have histologically confirmed, previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer, measurable disease and 
≥
to be either more susceptible to irinotecan toxicity (
 65 years, prior radiotherapy to pelvis or abdomen) 
or less likely to benefit from irinotecan treatment (PS 
 1, baseline albumin < 3.5 g/dl) in order to be 
eligible  for  enrolment.  FA  500  mg/m2  and  bolus  5-FU  500  mg/m2  were  given weekly  for  6  weeks  of 
every 8 week cycle (Roswell Park regimen). Bevacizumab 5 mg/kg was administered every 2 weeks.  
≥
A  summary  of  efficacy  results  for  studies  AVF2192g  is  shown  in Table 10b. A total of 214 patients 
were randomized between August 7, 2000 and July 10, 2002. Randomization was stratified by ECOG 
performance status, number of organ sites with disease and site of primary tumour. Five patients from 
one  site,  which  was  non-compliant  with  GCP  guidelines,  were  excluded  from  all  analyses.  The 
remaining 209 patients constitute the study population. 
Baseline characteristics were similar in the two arms. The median age was 72 years, 46.4% of patients 
were female. The primary tumour was located in the colon in 80.9% and in the rectum in 19.1% . Fewer 
patients  in  the  bevacizumab  group  had  albumin  levels 
  3.5  g/dL  (42.4%  versus  49%  in  the  control 
arm). Slightly more patients in the bevacizumab arms received prior treatment of any kind (93.3% and 
91% versus 86.7% in the control arm). 
≤
Overall,  204  patients  received  at  least  one  dose  of  the  assigned  study  drug.  104  patients  received  5-
FU/FA and placebo and 100 patients received bevacizumab 5 mg/kg in combination with 5-FU/FA. The 
number of doses of study drug (bevacizumab or placebo) as well as that of concomitant chemotherapy 
was higher for patients in the bevacizumab arm as compared to those in the control arm. More patients 
in the bevacizumab arm had at least one chemotherapy dose reduction. Second line treatment was well 
balanced between the two arms. A total of 53.3% of patients in the control arm and 52.9% of patients in 
the  bevacizumab  arm  received  second  line treatment. A total of 45.7% of patients in the placebo arm 
and  38.5%  of  patients  in  the  bevacizumab  arm  were  treated  with  oxaliplatin  or  irinotecan  or  both 
agents. 
The study was powered to detect an increase in median survival from 8.5 to 14 months (>60% survival 
improvement).  This  goal  was  not  met,  but  the  study  demonstrated  a  27%  improvement  in  overall 
survival  in  patients  who  received  bevacizumab  plus  5-FU/FA  compared  to  those  receiving  5-FU/FA 
alone (HR=0.787,NS). This was accompanied by a significant prolongation in progression-free survival 
from  5.5  months  to  9.2  months  (HR=0.5,  p=0.0002).  A  total  of  26%  of  patients  in  the  bevacizumab 
arm had an objective response rate as compared to 15.2% in the control arm (p=0.552). The treatment 
effect was greater in patients with a baseline albumin level of 
 3.5 g/dL. Some smaller subgroups such 
as patients with rectal cancer and patients with metastatic disease of 
 12 months duration did not show 
evidence of treatment benefit. The safety profile of bevacizumab was similar to that of the pivotal trial, 
which included patients in a better general state. 
≤
≥
Table 10b:  Efficacy results for studies AVF0780g and AVF2192g 
Number of Patients 
Overall survival 
 5-FU/FA 
AVF0780g 
5-FU/FA  
Avastina 
AVF2192g 
5-FU/FA  
Avastinb 
5-FU/FA + 
placebo 
5-FU/FA + 
Avastin 
36 
35 
33 
105 
104 
Page 40/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5-FU/FA 
AVF0780g 
5-FU/FA  
Avastina 
AVF2192g 
5-FU/FA  
Avastinb 
5-FU/FA + 
placebo 
5-FU/FA + 
Avastin 
Median time (months) 
13.6 
17.7 
15.2 
12.9 
16.6 
95% Confidence Interval 
10.35 - 16.95 
13.63 – 19.32 
- 
5.2 
- 
0.52 
0.073 
9.0 
0.44 
0.0049 
1.01 
0.978 
7.2 
0.69 
0.217 
5.5 
0.79 
0.16 
9.2 
0.5 
0.0002 
16.7 
40.0 
24.2 
15.2 
26 
7.0 
33.5 
24.4 
57.8 
11.7 –  42.6 
9.2 - 23.9 
18.1 - 35.6 
0.029 
9.3 
6.1 
NR 
0.43 
5.0 
0.055 
6.8 
9.2 
3.8 – 7.8 
5.59 - 9.17 
5.88 - 13.01 
NR 
5.5 
NR 
Hazard ratioc 
p-value 
Progression-free survival 
Median time (months) 
Hazard ratio 
p-value 
Overall response rate 
Rate (percent) 
95% CI 
p-value 
Duration of response 
Median time (months) 
25–75 percentile (months) 
a 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks 
b 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks  
c Relative to control arm 
 Not reached 
NR 
(cid:0)
Study E2200 
Since the original MAA submission, the results of another trial of a combination of bevacizumab and 
chemotherapy the Phase II study E2200 have become available.  Study E2200 was a single arm phase 2 
study  of  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  5-FU/FA/irinotecan  in  patients  with  previously  untreated 
advanced  colorectal  cancer.  The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  progression-free 
survival  at  7  months.  Initially,  FA  20  mg/m2  bolus 5-FU  500  mg/m2  and  irinotecan  125  mg/m2  were 
given  weekly  for  4  weeks  of  every  6  week  cycle.  Bevacizumab  10  mg/kg  was  administered  every  2 
weeks.  On  April  30,  2001, independent from study E2200, all NCI-sponsored clinical trials  using the 
Saltz  regimen  were  suspended  in  response  to  excessive  death  rates  due  to  toxicity  in  two  studies 
investigating  the  Saltz  regimen  in  the  adjuvant  and  metastatic  setting  (C89803  and  N9741).  Study 
E2200 was re-activated with lower starting doses for irinotecan (100 mg/m2) and 5-FU (400 mg/m2).  
Preliminary  results  were  presented  [111].  A  total  of  92  patients  were  accrued  into  the  study  between 
November 2000 and February 2002, of which 20 patients were accrued before trial suspension, at the 
higher irinotecan and 5-FU doses. Five patients did not receive study treatment and a further 6 patients 
were ineligible for assessment. The median age was 59 years (range 30-85 years). Most patients (59%) 
had a performance status of 0. Sixty percent of the patients were male. A total of 82% of patients had 
liver metastases. Patients received a median of 7 treatment cycles before suspension and a median of 6 
treatment cycles after suspension. The median follow-up time was 16.7 months. A total of 81 patients 
were  eligible  for  assessment.  The  median  progression-free  survival  was  10  months.  The  objective 
response rate was 49.4% with median duration of response of 8.4 months. The 1-year overall survival 
rate was 85%.  
Study E3200 
and 
efficacy  of  bevacizumab 
This is an ongoing randomized, open-label, active-controlled, three-arm, Phase III study evaluating the 
safety 
chemotherapy 
(5-FU/FA/oxaliplatin)  in  patients  with  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  that  has  progressed  following 
treatment  with  IFL  chemotherapy.  This  study  has  been  conducted  by  ECOG.    Patients  had  to  have 
treatment  with  a 
measurable  disease,  an  ECOG  performance  status  of  0–2,  and  prior 
combination  with  FOLFOX4 
in 
Page 41/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
fluoropyrimidine-based  regimen  and  an  irinotecan-based  regimen  (alone  or  in  combination)  for 
advanced  disease.  Eligible  patients  were 
treatment  arms: 
5-FU/FA/oxaliplatin  (A),  5-FU/FA/oxaliplatin+  bevacizumab  (B),  or  bevacizumab  alone  (C).  The 
bevacizumab dose is 5 mg/kg/wk (delivered as 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks). 
into  one  of 
randomized 
three 
The  FOLFOX4  regimen  (85 mg/m2  oxaliplatin,  200 mg/m2  FA,  and  400 mg/m2  5-FU  bolus  + 
600 mg/m2 IV infusion) is administered every 2 weeks.  The study has been closed to enrollment with 
835 patients. This was increased from the original protocol-specified enrollment of 693 patients because 
of a faster-than-expected enrollment rate.  The primary efficacy endpoint is overall survival; secondary 
efficacy endpoints are response rate and time to progression.   
The final analysis will occur ~31 months after the start of accrual (22 months of accrual and 9 months 
of  follow-up);  interim  analyses  of  efficacy  were  to  be  conducted  at  50%  and  75%  information  time 
(~16 and ~21 months after the start of accrual, respectively. Interim safety data from 757 patients were 
presented  [112].  A  total  of  495  patients  received  bevacizumab,  265  in  combination  with  FOLFOX4. 
Bevacizumab  added  to  FOLFOX4  did  not  substantially  alter  the  regimen’s  toxicity  profile  in  this 
already  pre-treated  patient  population.  The  single  agent  bevacizumab  arm of this study was closed to 
accrual  on  March  11,  2003.  The  study  is  ongoing  and  is  planned  to  be  completed  by  September  30, 
2005. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  definition  of  an  optimal  dose  of  bevacizumab,  an  anti-angiogenic  agent  exhibiting  predominantly 
features of a cytostatic, has been challenging because no established surrogate for a disease progression 
endpoint  exists  and  a  multi-dose  approach  is  not  practical.  Features  used  in  the  establishment  of  an 
optimal  dose  for  cytotoxic  agents,  such  as  a  steep  dose-response  curve  or  a  typical  toxicity  profile, 
cannot  be  applied  under  such  circumstances.  As  a  consequence,  the  Applicant  decided  to  conduct  a 
randomized, placebo controlled Phase II dose-finding study (AVF0780g) of two doses of bevacizumab 
which were previously shown to be associated with bevacizumab serum levels of above the target level 
of 30 µg/mL. In this trial the 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks dose was shown to maintain >98% of VEGF in the 
circulation  bound  to  bevacizumab,  and  this  was  identified  as  being  effective  and  well  tolerated.  The 
results  of  both  pharmacokinetic  parameters  and  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  from  trials  AVF0780g, 
AVF2107g and AVF2192g all suggest that the 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks dose of bevacizumab is safe and 
effective. Limited clinical experience using a higher dose of bevacizumab (10 mg/kg every 2 weeks or 
5.0 mg/kg/week) from trials AVF0780g and E2200 does not suggest any improvement in efficacy, but 
there were indications of higher toxicity across all dose ranging studies in all indications. The Applicant 
has  initiated  a  large  global  development  program  in  major  cancer  indications,  e.g.  in  metastatic  renal 
cell, non-small cell lung, and pancreatic cancer. The investigation of bevacizumab will be expanded in 
metastatic colorectal cancer and into the adjuvant treatment of patients with colon cancer. A variety of 
standard  backbone  chemotherapy  regimens  will  be  combined  with  bevacizumab  in  these  trials  and 
further PK/PD data will be generated in association with this development program. The applicant has 
provided  a  thorough  discussion  on  the  dose-response  issue  and  the  lack  of true MTD finding studies. 
The arguments for choosing the 5mg/kg q2wk are reasonable. 
The application is based on one phase III and one phase II study conducted to demonstrate efficacy of 
bevacizumab  in  combination  with  5-FU  based  chemotherapy.  The  design  of  the  pivotal  trial,  the 
randomization  methods  and  the  stratification  are  appropriate.  The  patients  had  overall  good 
performance  status,  were  relatively  young  (mean  age  59  years)  and  close  to  38  %  had  only  one 
metastatic  site.  The  population  included  may  thus  have  had  a  more  favourable  prognosis  than  the 
general population with metastatic CRC. 
The pivotal trial showed that bevacizumab in combination with IFL gives a significant prolongation of 
survival  of  4.7  months  compared  to  IFL  alone  (20.3  vs.  15.6  months),  the  hazard  ratio  in  favour  of 
bevacizumab  +  IFL  was  0.66.  The  survival  benefit  from  bevacizumab  was  seen  in  all  pre-specified 
patient subgroups. Since a similar percentage of patients in Arms 1 and 2 received second-line treatment 
and  the  chemotherapy  agents  used  were  also  similar  in  both  arms,  it  is  unlikely  that  second-line 
treatment introduced a bias on the assessment of overall survival. The addition of bevacizumab to IFL 
Page 42/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
chemotherapy  also  resulted  in  a  significant  prolongation  of  PFS,  from  6.2  to  10.6  months; 
corresponding to a hazard ratio of 0.54.  
In the phase II study AVF0780g the addition of bevacizumab to 5-FU/FA chemotherapy prolonged TTP 
compared with 5-FU/FA alone (9.0 vs. 5.2 months; hazard ratio 0.44). In this study tumour assessments 
were performed every 8 weeks. The estimated survival benefit observed with 5-FU/FA+bevacizumab in 
study AVF2107g was confirmed by the results of this study.  
Based  on  experience  with  bevacizumab  monotherapy  in  studies  AVF0780g  and  E3200  the  evidence 
does  not  support  significant  activity  with  bevacizumab  as  monotherapy  in  the  second-line  setting  for 
CRC. There are no data available on the activity of bevacizumab as monotherapy in the first-line setting 
for this disease. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  of  bevacizumab  used  in  combination  with  chemotherapy  or  as  monotherapy  was 
derived from  treatment of 1032 patients enrolled in eight Genentech-sponsored studies: 591 metastatic 
colorectal  cancer  patients,  304  previously  treated  metastatic  breast  cancer  patients,  85  lung  cancer 
(NSCLC)  patients,  15  hormone-refractory  prostatic  cancer  patients  and  37  patients  with  various 
advanced malignancies in Phase I studies. 
The  pivotal  study  AVF2107g  provided  a  comparison  between  the  safety  profiles  of  the  IFL+placebo 
regimen (arm1) and the IFL+ bevacizumab regimen (arm 2).  
n Study AVF2107g all adverse events (Grade 1-4) were collected for the first 309 patients randomised 
into the three study arms. For all subsequently enrolled patients only Grade 3/4 events, treatment related 
adverse events, serious adverse events and adverse events leading to study withdrawal and death were 
collected. In the pivotal study AVF2107g safety data is reported during the treatment period only; post 
study safety data has not been evaluated. 
• 
Patient exposure 
Data  from  1032  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  bevacizumab  have  been  included  in  the 
analyses  performed  within  the  framework  of  the  clinical  summary  of  safety;  594  from  the  target 
indication studies and 438 from the non-target indication studies. 
The great majority of patients treated with 5 mg/kg/2 weeks bevacizumab had metastatic CRC and the 
majority  of  the  patients  treated  with  15  mg/kg/3  weeks  bevacizumab  had  metastatic  breast  cancer, 
which  means  that  any  analysis  of  safety  by  dose  level  is  confounded  by  differences  in  patient 
population, co-morbidities, disease, and concomitant chemotherapy. 
In Study AVF2107g, the median duration of exposure to study drug in Treatment Period 1 was longer 
for patients in Arms 2 and 3 than for those in Arm 1. The percentage of patients on-long term therapy 
(>  12  months)  with  study  drug  was  also  higher  for  Arms  2  and  3  than  Arm  1  (Table 11a).  A safety 
overview of study AVF2107g and AVF2192g is provided in Table 11b. 
Table 11a. Duration of Study Drug Administration in Study AVF2107g 
Arm 3 
5-FU/FA  +  AVF 
(n = 109) 
Arm 2 
b-IFL  +  AVF 
(n = 392) 
Arm 1 
b-IFL  +  Placebo 
(n = 396) 
Duration (months) 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
25th
Range 
≤ 12  
> 12  
75th percentile 
6.4 (0.2) 
6 
3–9 
0–23 
357 (90.2%) 
39 (9.8%) 
8.5 (0.3) 
8 
4–12 
0–24 
303 (77.3%) 
89 (22.7%) 
8.5 (0.6) 
7 
3–12 
0–25 
83 (76.1%) 
26 (23.9%) 
AVF, bevacizumab; b-IFL, bolus irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic acid; 
5-FU , 5-fluorouracil; FA,  folinic acid. 
Note:  Includes data from first-line therapy (Treatment Period 1) only.  
Table 11b   Safety overview of study AVF2107g and AVF2192g 
Page 43/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
AVF2107g 
AVF2192g 
IFL* + placebo 
N=396  
(%) 
IFL* + Avastin 
N=392 (%) 
5-FU/FA + 
placebo 
N=104 (%) 
5-FU/FA + 
Avastin 
N=100 (%) 
4.9% 
28 
2.8% 
7.1% 
3.0% 
40 
2.6% 
8.4% 
13.5% 
23 
6.7% 
11.5% 
5.0% 
31 
4.0% 
10.0% 
Death within 60 days of 
randomisation 
Median duration of safety 
observation (weeks) 
SAEs leading to death 
AEs leading to study drug 
discontinuation 
Abbreviations: IFL, irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic acid 
Data are unadjusted for the differential time on treatment 
• 
Adverse events  
In the phase III and II studies in metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum (AVF2107g, AVF2192g), 
Grade  3  and  4  adverse  events  (irrespective  of  causal  relationship)  observed  in 
 1%  and  < 10%  of 
IFL+Avastin  treated  patients  as compared  to the control groups were: hypertension, leukopenia, pain, 
(pooled  arterial 
diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain,  deep  vein 
thromboembolic  events  including  cerebrovascular  accident,  myocardial  infarction,  transient  ischaemic 
attack  and  other  arterial  thromboembolic  events).  For  5-FU/FA  +  Avastin  these  were:  asthenia,  pain, 
sepsis,  abscess,  cerebral  ischaemia  and  thromboembolism  (as  defined  above).  Hypertension  was 
observed in 
 10% 5-FU/FA + Avastin treated patients. 
thromboembolism 
thrombosis  and 
≥
≥
In the phase III and II studies in metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum (AVF2107g, AVF2192g), 
adverse  events  of  all  grades  (irrespective  of  causal  relationship) which  occurred in 
 10%  of patients 
were  Hypertension,  Rectal  haemorrhage,  Stomatitis,  Constipation,  Pain,  Anorexia,  and  Hypertension, 
Stomatitis,  Asthenia,  pain,  pyrexia,  for  IFL  +  Avastin  (AVF2107g)  and  5-FU/FA  +  Avastin 
(AVF2192g),  respectively.  Those  that  occurred  in 
 1%-  < 10%  of  patients  were  eye  disorders, 
dysgeusia,  epistaxis, dyspnoea, rhinitis,  dermatitis exfoliative, skin discoloration,  dry skin for IFL + Avastin 
(AVF2107g). No events fell into this frequency for 5-FU/FA + Avastin (AVF2192g). 
≥
≥
Grade 3 and 4 adverse events occurring in arm 1 and 2  of the pivotal study are summarized in Table 
12.  Compared  to  the  control  arm,  bevacizumab  led  to  an  11%  increase  in  grade  3  and  4 events. The 
main 
leucopenia  (5.9%)  and  deep 
thrombophlebitis (2.6%). 
increases  were:  hypertension  (8.7%),  diarrhoea  (7.7%), 
The safety profile in the 5-FU/FA + bevacizumab combination ( arm 3 of the pivotal study) was similar 
to that of arm 2 exept for a lower incidence of leucopenia and diarrhoea and a higher incidence of skin 
AE’s. 
The  Grade 3  and  4  adverse  events  identified  in  the  pivotal  study  AVF2107g  as  possible 
bevacizumab-related  toxicities  (leukopenia,  diarrhea,  deep  thrombophlebitis,  and  hypertension)  were 
also reported in the other combination studies and in the single-agent therapy groups.  The incidence of 
hypertension  was  relatively  consistent  across  all  bevacizumab  studies,  whereas  the  incidences  of 
diarrhea and leukopenia were lower with single-agent therapy. 
Four  of  837  bevacizumab-treated  patients  tested  positive  for  human  anti–human  antibodies  to 
bevacizumab  at  baseline.    No  human  anti–human  antibodies  were  detected  in  samples  collected  after 
initiation of treatment with bevacizumab. 
The highest dose tested in humans (20 mg/kg of body weight, intravenous) was associated with severe 
migraine in several patients (see SPC section 4.9). 
Page 44/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diarrhoea  is  a  known  toxicity  of  IFL  chemotherapy.  The  incidence  of  Grade 3  and 4  diarrhoea  in 
Study AVF2107g  was  24.7%  in  arm  1  vs.  32.4%  in  arm  2.  The  incidence  was  increased  over  the 
control arm for younger patients and for patients without prior radiotherapy. A contributory factor may 
be the changes in the metabolism of irinotecan induced by bevacizumab. 
Table  12.  :  NCI-CTC  Grade  3/4  adverse  events  in  Study  AVF2107g  (
incidence) 
≥
2%  difference  in 
Body System/Preferred Term 
Patients with at least one adverse event 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Body as a whole 
Abdominal pain 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Pain 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Cardiovascular 
Deep thrombophlebitis 
Grade 3 
Hypertension 
Grade 3 
Digestive 
Diarrhea 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Vomiting 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Nausea 
Grade 3 
Hemic/lymphatic 
Leukopenia 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Metabolic/nutrition 
Hyperglycemia 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Arm 1 
b-IFL + Placebo 
(n = 396) 
293 (74.0%) 
87 (22.0%) 
206 (52.0%) 
20 (5.1%) 
1 (0.3%) 
19 (4.8%) 
12 (3.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
12 (3.0%) 
25 (6.3%) 
25 (6.3%) 
9 (2.3%) 
9 (2.3%) 
98 (24.7%) 
4 (1.0%) 
94 (23.7%) 
41 (10.4%) 
2 (0.5%) 
39 (9.8%) 
36 (9.1%) 
36 (9.1%) 
123 (31.1%) 
31 (7.8%) 
92 (23.2%) 
17 (4.3%) 
4 (1.0%) 
13 (3.3%) 
Arm 2 
b-IFL + AVF 
(n = 392) 
333 (84.9%) 
116 (29.6%) 
217 (55.4%) 
28 (7.1%) 
3 (0.8%) 
25 (6.4%) 
20 (5.1%) 
1 (0.3%) 
19 (4.8%) 
35 (8.9%) 
35 (8.9%) 
43 (11.0%) 
43 (11.0%) 
127 (32.4%) 
14 (3.6%) 
113 (28.8%) 
30 (7.7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
29 (7.4%) 
26 (6.6%) 
26 (6.6%) 
145 (37.0%) 
47 (12.0%) 
98 (25.0%) 
9 (2.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
8 (2.0%) 
AVF = bevacizumab; b-IFL = bolus irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic acid. 
Note:  Includes data from first-line therapy (Treatment Period 1) only.  Data are unadjusted for 
the differential time on treatment.  
Some of the more commonly occurring adverse events both in patients in Study AVF2107g and among 
all bevacizumab-treated patients were identified in the early clinical studies and became targeted adverse 
events which were reported and analyzed separately. 
Targeted adverse events: 
The  following  adverse  events  have  been  observed  in  Avastin-treated  patients,  and  may be  potentially 
related to Avastin therapy.  
Gastrointestinal  perforation:  Avastin  has  been  associated  with  serious  cases  of  gastrointestinal 
perforation  in  patients  with  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum.    In  study AVF2107g  an 
imbalance in the number of cases of gastrointestinal perforation between treatment arms was observed: 
0, 6 and 1 cases in arms 1, 2 and 3, respectively. There were no significant imbalances between arms 
Page 45/61 
EMEA 2005 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for other possibly perforation-related events including abdominal wound dehiscence, abdominal wound 
fistula,  and  abscess.    The  applicant  sees  intraabdominal  inflammation  as  a  common  feature  of  these 
cases and recommends caution to be exercised when treating such colorectal patients with bevacizumab. 
In  clinical  trials  in  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  gastrointestinal  perforation  was 
observed in 1.4% - 2.0% of the Avastin-treated patients. Of these, 0.4% - 1% had fatal outcome. The 
presentation  of  these  events  varied  in  type  and  severity,  ranging  from  free  air  seen  on  the  plain 
abdominal  X-ray,  which  resolved  without  treatment,  to  a  colonic  perforation  with  abdominal  abscess 
and  fatal  outcome.  The  common  feature  among  these  cases  was  intra-abdominal  inflammation,  either 
from  gastric  ulcer  disease,  tumour  necrosis,  diverticulitis,  or  chemotherapy-associated  colitis.  There 
were  no  cases  of  gastrointestinal  perforation  in  any  other  Genentech-sponsored  clinical  trial  of 
bevacizumab.  
Wound  healing:  As  Avastin  may  adversely  impact  wound  healing,  patients  who  had  major  surgery 
within  the  last  28  days  were  excluded  from participation in clinical trials for metastatic cancer of the 
colon  or  rectum.  In  clinical  trials  of  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  patients  who 
underwent  cancer-related  surgery  between  28  and  60  days  prior  to  starting  therapy  did  not  have 
increased risk of post-operative bleeding or wound healing complications during treatment compared to 
the  controlled  groups.  Adverse  events  consistent  with  post-operative  bleeding  or  wound  healing 
complication  were  observed  in  10%  -  20%  of  Avastin-treated  patients  who  underwent  major  surgery 
while receiving treatment. 
Hypertension:  An  increased  incidence  of  hypertension  has  been  observed  in  Avastin-treated  patients. 
Hypertension was generally treated with oral anti-hypertensives such as angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors,  diuretics  and  calcium-channel  blockers.  It  rarely  resulted  in  discontinuation  (0.7%  of  all 
Avastin-treated  patients)  or  hospitalisation,  and  resulted  in  hypertensive  encephalopathy  in  one  case 
(0.1%).  The  risk  of  Avastin-associated  hypertension  did  not  correlate  with  the  patients’  baseline 
characteristics,  underlying  disease  or  concomitant  therapy.  No  association  was  observed  between  the 
risk  of  Avastin-associated  hypertension  and  patients’  baseline  characteristics,  underlying  disease  or 
concomitant therapy. In clinical trials of metastatic carcinoma of the  colon or rectum, hypertension of 
any grade occurred in 22.4% - 32.0% of Avastin-treated patients. Grade 3 hypertension (requiring oral 
anti-hypertensive  medication)  was  reported  in  11.0%  -  16.0%  of  Avastin-treated  patients.  No 
hypertensive crisis (Grade 4) was reported. At week 24 of treatment, the mean change of blood pressure 
(BP) from baseline was diastolic  BP +4.1 to +5.4 mmHg and systolic BP + 5.5 to +8.4 mmHg in the 
treated patients. 
Proteinuria:  Proteinuria,  reported  as  adverse  event,  was  observed  in  23.3%  of  all  Avastin-treated 
patients.  It  ranged  in  severity  from  clinically  asymptomatic,  transient,  trace  proteinuria  to  nephrotic 
syndrome, with the great majority as Grade 1 proteinuria. The proteinuria seen in clinical trials was not 
associated with renal dysfunction and rarely required permanent discontinuation of therapy. In clinical 
trials of metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum, proteinuria was reported as an adverse event in 
21.7% - 38.0% of Avastin-treated patients. No Grade 4 proteinuria was reported. 
Haemorrhage: Overall, 4.0% of NCI-CTC Grade 3 and 4 bleeding events were observed in all Avastin 
treated  patients.  In  clinical  trials  of  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  there  was  no 
significant  difference  in  the  incidence  of  grade  3  and  4  bleeding  events  observed  between  Avastin-
treated  patients  (3.1%  -  5.1%)  compared  to  that  observed  in  the  controls  (2.5%  -  2.9%).  The 
haemorrhagic events that have been observed in clinical studies were predominantly tumour-associated 
haemorrhage and minor mucocutaneous haemorrhage. Tumour-associated haemorrhage was observed in 
phase  I  and  phase  II  studies.  In  patients  with  non-small  cell  lung  cancer  receiving  Avastin,  serious 
haemorrhage  was  observed  in  9%  (6%  fatal)  of  treated  patients.  These  events occurred  suddenly  and 
presented  as  major  or  massive  haemoptysis  in  patients  with  either  squamous  cell  histology  and/or 
tumours located in the centre of the chest in close proximity to major blood vessels. In some cases, these 
haemorrhages  were  preceded  by  cavitation  and/or  necrosis  of  the  tumour.  Tumour-associated 
haemorrhage was also seen rarely in other tumour types and locations, including central nervous system 
(CNS) bleeding in a patient with hepatoma with occult CNS metastases and continuous oozing of blood 
from  a  thigh  sarcoma  with  necrosis.  In  clinical  trials  of metastatic  carcinoma of the colon or rectum, 
tumour-associated haemorrhagic events were observed in 1% - 3% of the Avastin-treated patients. The 
Page 46/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
addition  of  Avastin  did  not  result  in  significant  increase  in  the  incidence  or  severity  of  Grade  3  or  4 
haemorrhagic  events.  Across  all  clinical  trials,  mucocutaneous  haemorrhage  has  been  seen  in  20%  - 
40%  of  Avastin-treated  patients.  These  were  most  commonly  NCI-CTC  Grade 1 epistaxis that lasted 
less than 5 minutes, resolved without medical intervention and did not require any changes in treatment 
regimen.  In  clinical  trials  of  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  epistaxis  was  reported  in 
22.0%  -  34.3%  of  Avastin-treated  patients.  There  have  also  been  less  common  events  of  minor 
mucocutaneous haemorrhage in other locations, such as gingival bleeding and vaginal bleeding. 
Thromboembolism:  In  clinical  trials  of  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  the  overall 
incidence of thromboembolic events was similar between Avastin-treated patients (18.0% - 19.4%) and 
the  controls  (16.2%  -  18.3%).  In  clinical  trials  of  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  the 
incidence  of  arterial  thromboembolic  events  including  CVAs,  MIs,  TIAs,  and  other  arterial 
thromboembolic events was higher in Avastin-treated patients (3.3% - 10.0%) compared to the controls 
(1.3%  -  4.8%).  In  five  randomised  trials including  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon or  rectum trials 
(N=1745),  arterial  thromboembolic  events  including  CVAs,  MIs,  TIAs,  and  other  thromboembolic 
events occurred in 4.5% (45/1004) of patients treated with Avastin in combination with chemotherapy 
compared  to  2.0%  (15/741)  of  patients  treated  with  chemotherapy  alone.  In  patients  treated  with 
Avastin plus chemotherapy, arterial thromboembolic events led to a fatal outcome in 0.8% (8/1004). In 
patients  treated  with  chemotherapy  alone,  a  fatal  outcome  from  arterial  thromboembolic  events  was 
reported in 0.4% (3/741). CVAs (including TIAs) occurred in 2.2% of patients treated with Avastin in 
combination with chemotherapy and 0.5% of patients treated with chemotherapy alone. MI occurred in 
1.9% of patients treated with Avastin in combination with chemotherapy compared to 1.1% of patients 
treated  with  chemotherapy  alone.  In  clinical  trials  of  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum, 
venous  thromboembolic  events,  including  deep  venous  thrombosis,  pulmonary  embolism  and 
thrombophlebitis  occurred  in  9.0%  -  16.6%  of  Avastin-treated  patients  compared  to  that  of  13.5%  - 
15.2%  in  the  controls.  It  could  not  be  determined  if  these  events  were due to the patients’ underlying 
cancer, their cytotoxic chemotherapy, Avastin or other risk factors. 
Congestive Heart Failure (CHF)/Cardiomyopathy: In the phase III controlled clinical trial of metastatic 
breast cancer, CHF/cardiomyopathy was reported in 3% of the Avastin-treated patients compared with 
1%  in  the  controlled  group.  These  events  varied  in  severity  from  asymptomatic  declines  in  left 
ventricular  ejection  fraction  to  symptomatic  CHF  requiring  hospitalisation  and  treatment.  All  the 
Avastin-treated patients were previously treated with anthracyclines (doxorubicin cumulative dose range 
240–360 mg/m2).  Many  of  these  patients  also  had  prior  radiotherapy  to  the  left  chest  wall.  Most  of 
these  patients  showed  improved  symptoms  and/or  left  ventricular  function  following  appropriate 
medical therapy. There was no information on patients with pre-existing CHF (NYHA II-IV) at the time 
of initiating the therapy, as these patients were excluded from studies. In patients with metastatic cancer 
of the colon or rectum, there was no increased incidence of CHF in Avastin-treated patients. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In Study AVF2107g, serious adverse events were reported in 43.2% of patients in Arm 1 and 51.0% of 
patients  in  Arm 2.    Deep  thrombophlebitis  was  the  only  serious  adverse  event occurring with a 
 2% 
difference in incidence between Arms 1 and 2 during first-line therapy. More than 90% of the deaths in 
study  AVF2107g  were due  to  disease progression.  The incidences of SAE’s that resulted in deaths  in 
study AVF2107g were similar in arm 1 and 2 (2.8% and 2.6%, respectively). 
≥
Among all bevacizumab-treated patients, serious adverse events were reported in 41.6% of the patients. 
The most frequently occurring serious adverse events were diarrhoea (7.3%) and deep thrombophlebitis 
(5.4%). 
The  incidence  of  adverse  events  leading  to  study  discontinuation  in  Study AVF2107g  was  similar for 
Arms 1 and 2  (7.1% in Arm 1 and 8.4% in Arm 2).  The most common adverse events leading to study 
discontinuation were diarrhea (1.5% in Arm 1 and 1.5% in Arm 2), asthenia (1.3% in Arm 1 and 0.8% 
in Arm 2), and pulmonary embolus (1.8% in Arm 1 and 0.3% in Arm 2). Two patients (0.5%) in Arm 2 
experienced a subarachnoid hemorrhage that led to study discontinuation. 
Page 47/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
The causes of death in study AVF2107g are shown in table IV.9.  More than 90% of the deaths in both 
arms were judged by the investigator to be due to disease progression.  The remaining deaths not due to 
progressive  disease  were  placed  in  the  following  categories:    bleeding,  cardiac  events,  infection, 
pulmonary embolism, other, and unknown cause.  
The incidences of SAE’s that resulted in deaths in study AVF2107g were similar in arm 1 and 2 (2.8% 
and 2.6%, respectively). 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Decreased  neutrophil  count,  decreased  white  blood  cell  count  and  presence  of  urine  protein  may  be 
associated with Avastin. Decreased neutrophil count and decreased white blood cell count were the most 
commonly  observed  Grade  3  and  4  laboratory  abnormalities  in  Avastin-treated  patients  across  all 
clinical trials (Table 13). Grade 3 and 4 laboratory abnormalities occurring in ≥ 5% of Avastin-treated 
patients  with  or  without  chemotherapy  in  any  trials  included  decreased  neutrophil  count,  decreased 
white blood cell count, protein urine present, decreased blood potassium, decreased blood phosphorus, 
increased blood glucose and increased blood alkaline phosphatase (Table 14). The higher incidences of 
decreased  neutrophil  count  and  decreased  white  blood  cell  count  observed  in  the  IFL  +  Avastin  arm 
possibly correlated to the increased concentrations of SN38, the active metabolite of irinotecan. 
Table  13.  Grade  3  and  4  haematological  toxicity  in  Study  AVF2107g  (
Arm 1 and Arm 2) 
≥
2%  Difference  between 
Laboratory Test 
ANC 
of 
Type 
Change 
Low 
WBC count 
Low 
Treatment Arm 
b-IFL + placebo 
b-IFL + AVF 
b-IFL + placebo 
b-IFL + AVF 
n 
296 
271 
296 
271 
Total  Number  of  
Grade 3 and 4  
40 (14%) 
56 (21%) 
19 (6%) 
24 (9%) 
Grade 4 
6 (2%) 
8 (3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 (0%) 
Grade 3 
34 (12%) 
48 (18%) 
18 (6%) 
24 (9%) 
ANC, absolute  neutrophil  count;  AVF,   bevacizumab;  b-IFL, bolus  irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/folinic  acid; 
WBC, white blood cell.   
Page 48/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. Grade 3 and 4 laboratory abnormalities occurring in 
bevacizumab-treated patients) 
≥
5% of patients in any cohort (all 
Laboratory Test/Change 
AP increase 
Total 
Grade 3 
Glucose /increase 
Total 
Grade 3 
ANC/decrease 
Total 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Phosphorus /decrease 
Total 
Grade 3 
Potassium/decrease 
Total 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Urine protein/increase 
Total 
Grade 3 
WBC count/decrease 
Total 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Studies 
Colorectal 
with  Chemotherapy 
(n = 568) 
457 
10 (2.2%) 
10 (2.2%) 
458 
30 (6.6%) 
30 (6.6%) 
457 
66 (14.4%) 
11 (2.4%) 
55 (12.0%) 
458 
26 (5.7%) 
26 (5.7%) 
460 
31 (6.7%) 
4 (0.9%) 
27 (5.9%) 
529 
9 (1.7%) 
9 (1.7%) 
479 
49 (10.2%) 
7 (1.5%) 
42 (8.8%) 
Other Combination 
Studies 
(n = 307) 
297 
7 (2.4%) 
7 (2.4%) 
298 
14 (4.7%) 
14 (4.7%) 
285 
52 (18.2%) 
26 (9.1%) 
26 (9.1%) 
298 
10 (3.4%) 
10 (3.4%) 
295 
9 (3.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
9 (3.1%) 
284 
5 (1.8%) 
5 (1.8%) 
297 
34 (11.4%) 
5 (1.7%) 
29 (9.8%) 
Single-Agent 
Therapy 
(n = 157) 
150 
12 (8.0%) 
12 (8.0%) 
151 
6 (4.0%) 
6 (4.0%) 
68 
2 (2.9%) 
2 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
149 
1 (0.7%) 
1 (0.7%) 
150 
1 (0.7%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.7%) 
103 
6 (5.8%) 
6 (5.8%) 
152 
2 (1.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (1.3%) 
Total 
(n = 1032) 
904 
29 (3.2%) 
29 (3.2%) 
907 
50 (5.5%) 
50 (5.5%) 
810 
120 (14.8%) 
39 (4.8%) 
81 (10.0%) 
905 
37 (4.1%) 
37 (4.1%) 
905 
41 (4.5%) 
4 (0.4%) 
37 (4.1%) 
916 
20 (2.2%) 
20 (2.2%) 
928 
85 (9.2%) 
12 (1.3%) 
73 (7.9%) 
Abbreviations: AP, alkaline phosphatase; ANC, absolute neutrophil count; WBC, white blood cell. 
Note: A laboratory abnormality represented an abnormal laboratory test value that had worsened in NCI-CTC grade 
from baseline. These laboratory abnormalities were categorized by the worst (highest) NCI-CTC grade. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
For elderly patients, data from 5 randomised clinical trials showed that age > 65 years was associated 
with an increased risk of developing arterial thromboembolic events including cerebrovascular accidents 
(CVAs), transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) and myocardial infarctions (MIs) when treated with Avastin 
. No increased incidence of Avastin-related events including gastrointestinal perforation, wound healing 
complications, hypertension, proteinuria, haemorrhage and congestive heart failure/cardiomyopathy was 
observed in elderly patients (> 65 years) with metastatic cancer of the colon or rectum receiving Avastin 
compared to those aged 
 65 years treated with Avastin. In the phase III study in metastatic carcinoma 
of colon or rectum trial (AVF2107g), 114 out of the 392 patients who received Avastin were older than 
65  years.  Only  Grade  3/4  leukopenia  occurred  at  an  incidence  of 
 5%  in  the  elderly  patients  (> 65 
years)  compared  to  those  patients  aged 
 65  years.  In  the  phase  II  study  in  metastatic  carcinoma  of 
colon or rectum trial (AVF2192g), the majority of the Avastin-treated patients was older than 65 years 
(83%). The overall safety profile of Avastin from this study was comparable to the overall safety profile 
observed in Study AVF2107g.  
≤
≥
≤
The  applicant  also  summarized  the  main  conclusions  from  a  number  of  analyses  in  patient  subsets: 
patients >75 years old tolerated the bevacizumab treatment well but seemed at higher risk of developing 
hypertension and diarrhea than younger patients. Men treated with bevacizumab may be at higher risk 
of developing diarrhea than women. Black patients treated with bevacizumab may be at higher risk of 
developing  hypertension  and  albuminuria  than  White  patients.    Patients  with  an  ECOG  performance 
status  of  1  did  not  appear  to be at higher risk of developing bevacizumab-related toxicities compared 
with  patients  with  an  ECOG  performance  status  of  0.    Patients  with  renal  dysfunction  (creatinine 
clearance  of  < 50  mL/min)  treated  with  bevacizumab  may  be  at  higher  risk  of  developing  diarrhea, 
leukopenia, and albuminuria than patients without renal dysfunction 
Page 49/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  bevacizumab  did  not  appear  to  be  affected  by  dosing  of  concomitant 
chemotherapies, including doxorubicin, carboplatin/paclitaxel, 5-FU/FA, capecitabine, and IFL.  With 
the exception of irinotecan, the pharmacokinetics of these chemotherapeutic drugs were not affected by 
bevacizumab.    In  Study AVF2107g,  irinotecan  concentrations  were  not  affected  when  dosed  in 
combination  with  bevacizumab;  however,  there  was  an  estimated  33%  increase  in exposure to SN38, 
the active metabolite of irinotecan, which could be a cause of the increased incidence of diarrhoea.  
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  most  frequently  occurring  adverse  events  among  all  bevacizumab–treated  patients  leading  to 
discontinuation were asthenia, deep thrombophlebitis, diarrhoea, hypertension, pulmonary embolus, and 
albuminuria. Thirteen percent of all bevacizumab–treated patients discontinued treatment due to adverse 
events.  
The  incidence  of  adverse  events  leading  to  study  discontinuation in Study AVF2107g was similar for 
Arms 1 and 2 and relatively low (7.1% in Arm 1 and 8.4% in Arm 2). The most common adverse events 
leading to study discontinuation were diarrhoea, asthenia, and pulmonary embolus. Two patients in Arm 
2 experienced a subarachnoid haemorrhage that led to study discontinuation.  
• 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing experience was available at the time of submission. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  applicant  has  summarized  safety  data  from  1032 bevacizumab-treated  patients  from  nine 
Genentech-sponsored studies, including 594 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and 310 patients 
with metastatic breast cancer. However, the most informative and relevant study was the pivotal study 
AVF2107,  in  which  the  IFL+  placebo  regimen  was  directly  comparable  to  the  IFL+  bevacizumab 
regimen with almost 400 patients in each arm. 
Against  the  background  of  a  relatively  toxic  IFL  regimen,  treatment with bevacizumab in general did 
add toxicity, which however was a moderate 11% considering that  patients in the IFL + bevacizumab 
arm  –  due  to  an  improved  efficacy-  received  more  doses  of  chemotherapy  than  those  in  the  IFL  + 
placebo  arm.    The  toxicity  in  general  was  easily  manageable  except  for  a  few  rare  cases  of 
gastrointestinal perforation (only seen in colorectal cancer studies). Patients with metastatic carcinoma 
of  the  colon  or  rectum  and  an  intra-abdominal  inflammatory process may be at increased risk for the 
development  of  gastrointestinal  perforation  when  treated  with  Avastin  and  chemotherapy.  Therefore, 
caution should be exercised when treating these patients. Therapy should be permanently discontinued 
in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation  (see also SPC, sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
No increase was seen in adverse events leading to death or study discontinuation or in 60-day mortality. 
The safety pattern was duplicated in other studies where bevacizumab was added to other chemotherapy 
regimens or in the collection of patients treated by single agent bevacizumab. There were no consistent 
trends  suggesting  that  the  incidence  of  any  adverse  events  increased  after  prolonged  treatment  with 
bevacizumab. Most deaths occurred because of disease progression. 
Avastin may adversely affect the wound healing process. Avastin therapy should not be initiated for at 
least  28  days  following  major  surgery  or  until  the  surgical  wound  is  fully  healed.  In  patients  who 
experienced  wound  healing  complications  during  Avastin  treatment,  Avastin  should  be  withheld  until 
the  wound  is  fully  healed.  Avastin  therapy  should  be  withheld  for  elective  surgery  (see  also  SPC, 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
An  increased  incidence  of  hypertension  was  observed  in  Avastin-treated  patients.  Clinical  safety  data 
suggest that the incidence of hypertension is likely to be dose-dependent. There is no information on the 
effect  of  Avastin  in  patients  with  uncontrolled  hypertension  at  the  time  of  initiating  Avastin  therapy. 
Therefore, caution should be exercised before initiating Avastin therapy in these patients. Monitoring of 
blood pressure is generally recommended during Avastin therapy. In patients with severe hypertension 
requiring  medical  therapy  temporary interruption  of Avastin is recommended until adequate control is 
Page 50/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
achieved.  If  hypertension  cannot  be  controlled  with  medical  therapy,  Avastin  treatment  should  be 
permanently  discontinued.  Avastin  should  be  permanently  discontinued  in  patients  who  develop 
hypertensive crisis (see also SPC, sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Patients with a history of hypertension may be at increased risk for the development of proteinuria when 
treated with Avastin. There is evidence suggesting that Grade 1 proteinuria, based on the U.S. National 
Cancer  Institute-Common  Toxicity  Criteria  (NCI-CTC)  version  2.0,  may  be  related  to Avastin  dose. 
Monitoring  of  proteinuria  by dipstick  urinalysis  is  recommended  prior  to  starting  and  during  Avastin 
therapy.  Avastin  should  be  discontinued  in  patients  who  develop  Grade  4  proteinuria  (nephrotic 
syndrome) (see also SPC, sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
In  five  randomised  clinical  trials,  the  incidence  of  arterial  thromboembolic  events  including 
cerebrovascular accidents (CVAs), transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) and myocardial infarctions (MIs) 
was  higher  in  patients  receiving  Avastin  in  combination  with  chemotherapy  compared  to  those  who 
received chemotherapy alone. A history of arterial thromboembolic events or age greater than 65 years 
was  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  developing  arterial  thromboembolic  events  during  Avastin 
therapy.  Caution  should  be  taken  when  treating  these  patients  with  Avastin.  Therapy  should  be 
permanently  discontinued  in  patients  who  develop  arterial  thromboembolic  events  (see  also  SPC, 
sections 4.4 and 4.8).. 
The  risk  of  CNS  haemorrhage  in  patients  with  CNS  metastases  receiving  Avastin could  not  be  fully 
evaluated, as these patients were excluded from clinical trials. Thus, Avastin should not be used in these 
patients. Avastin is contraindicated in patients with untreated CNS metastases (see also SPC, sections 
4.3,  4.4 and 4.8). 
Patients  with  metastatic  cancer  of  the  colon  or  rectum  might  have  an  increased  risk  of  developing 
tumour-associated  haemorrhage.  Avastin  should  be  discontinued  permanently  in  patients  who 
experience Grade 3 or 4 bleeding during Avastin therapy (see also SPC, sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
There is no information on the safety profile of Avastin in patients with congenital bleeding diathesis, 
acquired  coagulopathy  or  in  patients  receiving  full  dose  of  anticoagulants  for  the  treatment  of 
thromboembolism  prior  to  starting  Avastin  treatment,  as  such  patients  were  excluded  from  clinical 
trials.  Therefore,  caution  should  be  exercised  before  initiating  Avastin  therapy  in  these  patients. 
However, patients who developed venous thrombosis while receiving Avastin therapy did not appear to 
have  increased  rate  of  serious  bleeding  when  treated  with  full  dose  of  warfarin  and  Avastin 
concomitantly (see also SPC, sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Prior anthracycline exposure and/or prior radiation to the chest wall may be possible risk factors for the 
development  of  CHF.  Caution  should  be  exercised  before  initiating  Avastin  therapy  in  patients  with 
these risk factors (see also SPC, sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Bevacizumab  was  shown  to  be  teratogenic  when  administered  to  rabbits.    Observed  effects  included 
decreases in maternal and fetal body weights, an increased number of fetal resorptions, and an increased 
incidence  of  specific gross and skeletal  fetal alterations.  Adverse fetal outcomes were observed at all 
doses tested; the lowest dose level in this study was 8-fold higher than the human clinical weekly dose. 
Avastin must not be used during pregnancy. Women must not breast-feed during Avastin treatment and 
for at least six months after the last dose of Avastin (see also SPC, sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Avastin  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance  or  any  of  the 
excipients,  or  hypersensitivity  to  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO)  cell  products  or  other  recombinant 
human or humanised antibodies (see also SPC, sections 4.3). 
Bevacizumab  must  not  be  used  during  pregnancy.  There  are  no  data  on  the  use  of  bevacizumab  in 
pregnant  women.  Studies  in  animals  have  shown  reproductive  toxicity  including  malformations  (see 
section  5.3).  IgGs  are  known  to  cross  the  placenta,  and  bevacizumab  is  anticipated  to  inhibit 
angiogenesis  in  the  foetus.  Thus,  Avastin  is  contaidicated  in  pregnancy.  In  women  of  childbearing 
potential,  appropriate  contraceptive  measures  must  be  used  during  bevacizumab  therapy,  and  for  at 
least 6 months following the last dose of bevacizumab  (see SPC, section 4.6).  
Page 51/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
It is not known whether bevacizumab is excreted in human milk. As maternal IgG is excreted in milk 
and  bevacizumab  could  harm  infant growth and development, women must discontinue breast-feeding 
during  bevacizumab  therapy  and  not  breast  feed  for  at  least  six  months  following  the  last  dose  of 
bevacizumab (see SPC, section 4.6). 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. However, there 
is  no  evidence  that  Avastin  treatment  results  in  an  increase  in  adverse  events  that  might  lead  to 
impairment of the ability to drive or operate machinery or impairment of mental ability. 
Concerning  special  populations,  Avastin  was  associated  with  physeal  dysplasia  in  young cynomolgus 
monkeys  with  open  growth  plates,  at  average  serum  concentrations  below  the  level  expected  at  the 
recommended doses used in humans (see SPC sections 4.2 and 5.3). The safety and efficacy of Avastin 
in  children  and  adolescents  have  not been studied. Avastin should  not be used in the paediatric group 
until further data become available (see SPC, section 5.3). No dose adjustment for Avastin is required 
in  the  elderly.  The  safety  and  efficacy  of  Avastin  have  not  been  studied  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment or in patients with hepatic impairment (see SPC, section 4.2). 
In  one  study, irinotecan  concentrations  were  similar  in  patients  receiving  Irinotecan/5-FU/FA  alone 
(IFL)  and  in  combination  with  bevacizumab.  Concentrations  of  SN38,  the  active  metabolite  of 
irinotecan, were analysed in a subset of patients (approximately 30 per treatment arm). Concentrations 
of  SN38  were  on  average  33% higher  in  patients  receiving  IFL  in  combination  with  bevacizumab 
compared with IFL alone. Due to high inter-patient variability and limited sampling, it is uncertain if the 
increase in SN38 levels observed was due to bevacizumab. There was a small increase in diarrhoea and 
leukopenia adverse events (known adverse drug reactions of irinotecan), and also more dose reductions 
of irinotecan were reported in the IFL + bevacizumab-treated patients (see SPC, section 4.5). Patients 
who  develop  severe  diarrhoea,  leukopenia  or  neutropenia  with  Avastin  and  irinotecan  combination 
should have irinotecan dose modifications as specified in the irinotecan SPC. 
5.  Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the  chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The information provided in the application demonstrated consistent batch-to-
batch  production  of  Avastin.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance,  have  been 
adequately described, controlled and validated. Appropriate drug substance specifications have been set. 
The  drug  substance  has  been  well  characterised  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical  and  biological 
characteristics using state-of the-art methods. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been 
satisfactorily  described  and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test 
methods  and  specifications.  The  viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents 
(including  TSE)  have  been  sufficiently  assured.  Except  for  a  number of  quality points, which will be 
addressed  as  part  of  post-approval  commitments,  the  overall  quality  of  Avastin  is  considered 
acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Bevacizumab binds to VEGF and thereby inhibits the binding of VEGF to its receptors, Flt-1 (VEGFR-
1) and KDR (VEGFR-2), on the surface of endothelial cells. Neutralising the biologic activity of VEGF 
reduces the vascularisation of tumours, thereby inhibiting tumour growth. 
Administration  of  bevacizumab  or  its  parental  murine antibody to xenotransplant models of cancer  in 
nude mice resulted in extensive anti-tumour activity in human cancers, including colon, breast, pancreas 
and prostate. Metastatic disease progression was inhibited and microvascular permeability was reduced  
(see SPC, section 5.1). 
In studies of up to 26 weeks duration in cynomolgus monkeys, physial dysplasia was observed in young 
animals  with  open  growth  plates,  at  bevacizumab  average  serum  concentrations  below  the  expected 
human therapeutic average serum concentrations. In rabbit, bevacizumab was shown to inhibit wound 
healing  at  doses  below  the  proposed  clinical  dose.  Effects  on  wound  healing  were  shown  to  be  fully 
Page 52/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
reversible. Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of bevacizumab have not been 
performed.  
No  specific studies in animals have been conducted  to evaluate  the effect of bevacizumab on fertility. 
An adverse effect on female fertility can however be expected as repeat dose toxicity studies in animals 
have shown inhibition of the maturation of ovarian follicles and a decrease/absence of corpora lutea and 
associated  decrease  in  ovarian  and  uterus  weight  as  well  as  a  decrease  in  the  number  of  menstrual 
cycles.  
Bevacizumab  has  been  shown  to  be  embryotoxic  and  teratogenic  when  administered  to  rabbits. 
Observed effects included decreases in maternal and foetal body weights, an increased number of foetal 
resorptions  and  an  increased  incidence  of  specific  gross  and  skeletal  foetal  malformations.  Adverse 
foetal outcomes were observed at all tested doses, of which the lowest dose resulted in average serum 
concentrations approximately 3 times larger than in humans receiving 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks (see SPC, 
section 5.3).  
Efficacy 
In a phase III trial (AVF2107g) in first line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, bevacizumab in 
combination with IFL has been demonstrated to give a statistically significant prolongation of survival 
of 4.7 months compared to IFL alone (20.3 vs. 15.6 months) and a statistically significant prolongation 
of progression free survival (PFS). The survival benefit was seen in all pre-specified patient subgroups. 
Consistent efficacy results were observed in studies AVF2192g and AVF0780g. No significant increase 
in time to deterioration of quality of life was found. There was a trend toward prolonged survival in the 
bevacizumab + 5-FU/FA arm as compared to the placebo + IFL arm. There is no evidence of significant 
activity of bevacizumab as monotherapy in the second line setting. 
Safety 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  Avastin is based on 1132 patients with metastatic carcinoma of colon or 
rectum,  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  non-small  cell  lung,  metastatic  breast  and  hormone-resistant 
prostate cancer, who received Avastin either as a single agent or in combination with chemotherapy in 
clinical  trials.  The  most  serious  adverse  events  were  gastrointestinal  perforations,  haemorrhage,  and 
arterial thromboembolism (see also SPC, section 4.4 and 4.8). Gastrointestinal perforations were seen in 
seven patients in the pivotal trial, of which two were fatal, and in two patients in one of the other trials. 
Haemorrhages  were  predominantly  tumour  associated  and  mainly  seen  in  patients  with  NSCLC.  The 
most  frequently  observed  adverse  events  across all clinical trials in patients receiving Avastin with or 
without chemotherapy were asthenia, diarrhoea, nausea and pain (not otherwise specified). Analyses of 
the clinical safety data suggest that the occurrence of hypertension and proteinuria with Avastin therapy 
are  likely  to  be  dose-dependent.  The  hypertension  seemed  to  be  reversible.  Patients  with  prior 
hypertension  seem  to  be  predisposed  for  proteinuria.  The  proteinuria  was  not  associated  with  known 
renal  dysfunction.  Clinically  unimportant,  but  frequently  occurring  were  mucocutaneous  bleedings 
(epistaxis).  Other  safety  signals  observed 
thromboembolic  events, 
CHF/cardiomyopathy  and  impaired  wound  healing.  In  the  trials  bevacizumab  treatment  was  not 
initiated until 28 days after major surgery. 
in  different 
trials  were 
An increased incidence of diarrhoea is seen when adding bevacizumab to IFL. This is probably due to 
increased exposure to the active irinotecan metabolite, SN38. The mechanism of this interaction has not 
been clarified, and formal drug-drug interaction studies with bevacizumab are lacking. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Study  AVF2107g  is  the  first  Phase  III  trial  of  an  angiogenesis  inhibitor  that  demonstrates  a  survival 
advantage  in  a  randomized  active  controlled  trial.  The  anti-VEGF  antibody  bevacizumab,  which  as 
single  agent  has  shown  very  little  clinical  antineoplastic  activity  in  early  trials,  when  added  to  the 
irinotecan + 5-FU/FA (IFL) regimen resulted in a statistically and clinically significant prolongation of 
all the main efficacy endpoints such as survival, progression-free survival, response rate and duration. 
The  results  were  robust,  internally  consistent  and  clinically  meaningful.  The  improvement  in  overall 
survival of 5 months when bevacizumab was added to IFL is substantially larger than that seen with the 
addition of other anti-neoplastic agents and was achieved with acceptable toxicity. 
Page 53/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
The  application  submitted  by  the  applicant,  included  randomized  controlled  for  Avastin  only  in 
combination  with  the  (bolus)  IFL  regimen.  However,  current  state-of-the-art  therapies  for  metastatic 
CRC which are practiced in Europe include a variety of standard first-line regimens including bolus or 
infusional  5-FU/FA,  often  in  combination  with  irinotecan  or  oxaliplatin,  as  well  as  the  use  of  oral 
fluoropyrimidines. FOLFIRI is a standard infusional 5-FU/FA irinotecan containing regimen, which is 
often  considered  to  be  a  better  regimen  than  IFL  in  first  line  with  regard  to both efficacy and safety. 
This raises the question of whether the treatment effect observed for bevacizumab in combination with 
the  (bolus)  IFL  regimen  could  be  extrapolated  to  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  the  (infusional) 
FOLFIRI regimen. Concerning the efficacy of the two regimens, in a historical comparison the overall 
survival using irinotecan plus bolus 5-FU [11] (IFL) was lower as compared to the corresponding arms 
of  the  study  using  irinotecan  plus  infusional  5-FU  (FOLFIRI)  [12],  but  some  have  put  forward  the 
hypothesis that different availability of further treatments after progression may partly account for the 
apparent difference [12] [13]. Indeed, the response rates observed and time to progression were similar. 
Although  differences  between  the  two  regimens  might  exist,  important  pharmacodynamic  differences 
that might interfere significantly with bevacizumab activity are considered unlikely. 
The  same  reasoning  can  be  applied  to  different  standard  intravenous  regimens  of  5-FU/FA  (without 
irinotecan).  With  regard  to  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  5-FU/FA  alone,  there  is  limited 
documentation. The regimen studied (Roswell-Park) is not considered to be the best regimen available. 
Although  significant  improvements  were  observed  in  terms  of  PFS  only,  the  results  presented  are  in 
support of a beneficial effect of bevacizumab when added to the 5-FU/FA bolus regimen. Even if minor 
differences  existed  between  intravenous  5-FU/FA  containing  regimens,  or  intravenous  5-FU/FA  and 
irinotecan containing regimens, the improvement in overall survival of 5-months when bevacizumab was 
added to IFL was large and was achieved with acceptable toxicity. Thus, given the data presented and 
based on pharmacodynamic grounds, it seems reasonable to assume that the treatment effect observed 
for  bevacizumab  in  the  study  comparing  IFL+bevacizumab  v.  IFL,  and  the  data  presented  for 
bevacizumab  when  added  to  the  5-FU/FA  bolus  regimen,  can  be  expected  to  apply  also  to  other 
standard intravenous 5-FU/FA regimens, with, or without the addition of irinotecan.  
To what extent the treatment effect observed for bevacizumab in this combination might also apply to 
other  fluoropyrimidine-based  chemotherapy  has  been  discussed  by  the  CHMP,  which  sought  advice 
from  the  CHMP  scientific  advisory  group  (SAG)  for  oncology  on  this  issue.  The  advisory  group 
suggested that given the data presented for bevacizumab, particularly the compelling efficacy results for 
an intravenous combination treatment with irinotecan and bolus 5-FU/FA observed in the pivotal trial, 
there  is  a  strong  scientific  rationale  for  further  studies  of  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  other 
standard anticancer agents for the treatment of colorectal cancer. However, from a clinical perspective, 
strong assumptions would be needed in order to conclude that the efficacy and safety profile observed in 
the pivotal study would apply to combination treatment with other anticancer agents, such as oxaliplatin 
and  oral  fluoropyrimidines.  This  is  particularly  true  since  several  key  pharmacological  aspects  of 
bevacizumab  and  its  use  with  other  agents  are  not  known.  Even  in  combination  with  intravenous  5-
FU/FA  (with  or  without  irinotecan)  the  clinical  data  currently  available  with  bevacizumab  are  rather 
limited for certain relevant subgroups, and this adds to the uncertainty of any extrapolation. As there is 
little  experience  with  infusional  5-FU/FA  irinotecan  containing  regimens  and  bevacizumab,  a  close 
follow-up  of  the  toxicity  observed  in this  group  of  patients  is  recommended.  Finally,  concerning  oral 
fluoropyrimidines, there is a lack of informative comparative data for capecitabine, and no data exist for 
combinations  with  UFT.  Although  the  scientific  rationale  for  further  studies  may  be  well-founded,  to 
extrapolate  the  findings  of  bevacizumab  in  combination  with  intravenous  5-FU/FA  to  oral 
fluoropyrimidines would also require strong assumptions.  
Following the discussion at the SAG, and further discussions with the rapporteurs, the applicant revised 
the claimed indication for  Avastin limiting it to use in combination with i.v. 5-FU/FA with or without 
irinotecan. The CHMP agreed that the data supported an indication for Avastin for use in combination 
with intravenous 5-FU/FA, or intravenous 5-FU/FA/irinotecan, for first-line treatment of patients with 
metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Page 54/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Avastin  (bevacizumab)  in  combination  with  intravenous  5-
fluorouracil/folinic  acid  or  intravenous  5-fluorouracil/folinic  acid/irinotecan  for  first-line  treatment  of 
patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum was favourable and therefore recommended 
the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 55/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
References 
Parkin, D.M., P. Pisani, and J. Ferlay, Global cancer statistics. CA Cancer J Clin, 1999. 
49(1): p. 33-64, 1. 
Rougier, P. and E. Mitry, Epidemiology, treatment and chemoprevention in colorectal cancer. 
Ann Oncol, 2003. 14 Suppl 2: p. ii3-5. 
Midgley, R. and D. Kerr, Colorectal cancer. Lancet, 1999. 353(9150): p. 391-9. 
Moertel, C.G., Chemotherapy for colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med, 1994. 330(16): p. 1136-
42. 
Piedbois, P., S. Michiels, and the Meta-Analysis Group in Cancer, Survival benefit of 5FU/LV 
over 5FU bolus in patients with advanced colorectal cancer: an updated meta-analysis based 
on 2,571 patients. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2003;22:293 (Abstract 1180), 2003. 
Buroker, T.R., et al., Randomized comparison of two schedules of fluorouracil and leucovorin 
in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol, 1994. 12(1): p. 14-20. 
Benson, A.B., 3rd and R.M. Goldberg, Optimal use of the combination of irinotecan and 5-
fluorouracil. Semin Oncol, 2003. 30(3 Suppl 6): p. 68-77. 
Myers, C.E., et al., Pharmacokinetics of the fluoropyrimidines: implications for their clinical 
use. Cancer Treat Rev, 1976. 3(3): p. 175-83. 
Efficacy of intravenous continuous infusion of fluorouracil compared with bolus 
administration in advanced colorectal cancer. Meta-analysis Group In Cancer. J Clin Oncol, 
1998. 16(1): p. 301-8. 
de Gramont, A., et al., Randomized trial comparing monthly low-dose leucovorin and 
fluorouracil bolus with bimonthly high-dose leucovorin and fluorouracil bolus plus 
continuous infusion for advanced colorectal cancer: a French intergroup study. J Clin Oncol, 
1997. 15(2): p. 808-15. 
Saltz, L.B., et al., Irinotecan plus fluorouracil and leucovorin for metastatic colorectal 
cancer. Irinotecan Study Group. N Engl J Med, 2000. 343(13): p. 905-14. 
Douillard, J.Y., et al., Irinotecan combined with fluorouracil compared with fluorouracil 
alone as first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer: a multicentre randomised trial. 
Lancet, 2000. 355(9209): p. 1041-7. 
Pharmacia, ODAC Brochure, Pharmacia & Upjohn, NDA #20-571. 2001. 
de Gramont, A., et al., Leucovorin and fluorouracil with or without oxaliplatin as first-line 
treatment in advanced colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol, 2000. 18(16): p. 2938-47. 
Goldberg, R.M., et al., N9741: oxaliplatin or CPT-11 + 5-FU/LV or oxaliplatin + CPT-11 in 
advanced colorectal cancer (CRC). Updated efficacy and quality of life data from an 
Intergroup study. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2003;22:Abstract 1009., 2003. 
Tournigand C, A.E., Liedo G, et al., FOLFIRI followed by FOLFOX or FOLFOX followed by 
FOLFIRI in metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC). Preliminarty results of a randomized 
phase III study of the GERCOR. Ann Oncol 2000:11(4);43-44 (Abstract 1870), 2000. 
Hoff, P.M., et al., Comparison of oral capecitabine versus intravenous fluorouracil plus 
leucovorin as first-line treatment in 605 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer: results of 
a randomized phase III study. J Clin Oncol, 2001. 19(8): p. 2282-92. 
Carmichael J et al., Randomised comparative study of ORZEL (UFT) plus LV in patients with 
metastatic colorectal cancer. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 1999;18:264a (abstr 1015). 1999. 
Pazdur R et al, Multicentre phase III study of 5-FU and UFT in combination with LV in 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 1999;18:263a (abstr 
1009), 1999. 
20.  Mayer, R.J., Oral versus intravenous fluoropyrimidines for advanced colorectal cancer: by 
either route, it's all the same. J Clin Oncol, 2001. 19(21): p. 4093-6. 
21.  Malet-Martino, M. and R. Martino, Clinical studies of three oral prodrugs of 5-fluorouracil 
22. 
(capecitabine, UFT, S-1): a review. Oncologist, 2002. 7(4): p. 288-323. 
Punt CJA et al, Combination of irinotecan and capecitabine as first line treatment in 
advanced colorectal cancer (ACC): results of a phase II multicenter trial. Eur J Cancer 
2003;1(5);S85, Abstract, 2003. 
Page 56/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
Grothey A et al, Capecitabine plus irinotecan (CAPIRI) vs capecitabine plus oxaliplatin 
(CAPOX) as first-line therapy of advanced colorectal cancer (ACC): updated results of a 
randomized phase II trial. Eur J Cancer 2003;1(5);S90, Abstract, 2003. 
Patt YZ et al, Capecitabine plus irinotecan (XELIRI) in first line metastatic colorectal cancer 
(MCRC): upgate of a phase II trial. Eur J Cancer 2003;1(5);S93, Abstract, 2003. 
Tabernero, J., et al., Capecitabine and oxaliplatin in combination with oxaliplatin (Xelox) as 
first line therapy for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC); Results of an 
international multicentre phase II study. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2002;21:133a (abstr 531), 
2002. 
Grothey A et al, Randomized phase II trial of capecitabine plus irinotecan (CapIri) versus 
capecitabine plus oxaliplatin (CapOx) as first-line therapy of advanced colorectal cancer 
(ACRC). Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2003;22:255 (abstr 1022), 2003. 
Presta, L.G., et al., Humanization of an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor monoclonal 
antibody for the therapy of solid tumors and other disorders. Cancer Res, 1997. 57(20): p. 
4593-9. 
Folkman, J., Angiogenesis in cancer, vascular, rheumatoid and other disease. Nat Med, 1995. 
1(1): p. 27-31. 
Folkman, J., Endothelial cells and angiogenic growth factors in cancer growth and 
metastasis. Introduction. Cancer Metastasis Rev, 1990. 9(3): p. 171-4. 
Ferrara, N. and H.P. Gerber, The role of vascular endothelial growth factor in angiogenesis. 
Acta Haematol, 2001. 106(4): p. 148-56. 
Dvorak, H.F., et al., Vascular permeability factor/vascular endothelial growth factor, 
microvascular hyperpermeability, and angiogenesis. Am J Pathol, 1995. 146(5): p. 1029-39. 
Ferrara, N. and T. Davis-Smyth, The biology of vascular endothelial growth factor. Endocr 
Rev, 1997. 18(1): p. 4-25. 
Brown, L.F., et al., Expression of vascular permeability factor (vascular endothelial growth 
factor) and its receptors in adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract. Cancer Res, 1993. 
53(19): p. 4727-35. 
Uchida, S., et al., In oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma vascular endothelial growth 
factor is associated with p53 mutation, advanced stage and poor prognosis. Br J Cancer, 
1998. 77(10): p. 1704-9. 
35.  Maeda, K., et al., Prognostic value of vascular endothelial growth factor expression in gastric 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
carcinoma. Cancer, 1996. 77(5): p. 858-63. 
Ichikura, T., et al., Prognostic significance of the expression of vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF) and VEGF-C in gastric carcinoma. J Surg Oncol, 2001. 78(2): p. 132-7. 
Kimura, H., et al., Prognostic significance of expression of thymidine phosphorylase and 
vascular endothelial growth factor in human gastric carcinoma. J Surg Oncol, 2001. 76(1): p. 
31-6. 
Karayiannakis, A.J., et al., Circulating VEGF levels in the serum of gastric cancer patients: 
correlation with pathological variables, patient survival, and tumor surgery. Ann Surg, 2002. 
236(1): p. 37-42. 
Shimada, H., et al., Clinical significance of serum vascular endothelial growth factor in 
esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Cancer, 2001. 92(3): p. 663-9. 
Kim, K.J., et al., The vascular endothelial growth factor proteins: identification of 
biologically relevant regions by neutralizing monoclonal antibodies. Growth Factors, 1992. 
7(1): p. 53-64. 
Shima, D.T., et al., Cloning and mRNA expression of vascular endothelial growth factor in 
ischemic retinas of Macaca fascicularis. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci, 1996. 37(7): p. 1334-40. 
Lin, Y.S., et al., Preclinical pharmacokinetics, interspecies scaling, and tissue distribution of 
a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor. J Pharmacol 
Exp Ther, 1999. 288(1): p. 371-8. 
Ferrara, N. and W.J. Henzel, Pituitary follicular cells secrete a novel heparin-binding growth 
factor specific for vascular endothelial cells. Biochem Biophys Res Commun, 1989. 161(2): p. 
851-8. 
Page 57/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
Houck, K.A., et al., The vascular endothelial growth factor family: identification of a fourth 
molecular species and characterization of alternative splicing of RNA. Mol Endocrinol, 1991. 
5(12): p. 1806-14. 
Leung, D.W., et al., Vascular endothelial growth factor is a secreted angiogenic mitogen. 
Science, 1989. 246(4935): p. 1306-9. 
Poltorak, Z., et al., VEGF145, a secreted vascular endothelial growth factor isoform that 
binds to extracellular matrix. J Biol Chem, 1997. 272(11): p. 7151-8. 
Jingjing, L., et al., Human Muller cells express VEGF183, a novel spliced variant of vascular 
endothelial growth factor. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci, 1999. 40(3): p. 752-9. 
Bates, D.O., et al., VEGF165b, an inhibitory splice variant of vascular endothelial growth 
factor, is down-regulated in renal cell carcinoma. Cancer Res, 2002. 62(14): p. 4123-31. 
Houck, K.A., et al., Dual regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor bioavailability by 
genetic and proteolytic mechanisms. J Biol Chem, 1992. 267(36): p. 26031-7. 
Ferrara, N., H.P. Gerber, and J. LeCouter, The biology of VEGF and its receptors. Nat Med, 
2003. 9(6): p. 669-76. 
Ferrara, N., et al., Heterozygous embryonic lethality induced by targeted inactivation of the 
VEGF gene. Nature, 1996. 380(6573): p. 439-42. 
Carmeliet, P., et al., Abnormal blood vessel development and lethality in embryos lacking a 
single VEGF allele. Nature, 1996. 380(6573): p. 435-9. 
53.  Matsumoto, T. and L. Claesson-Welsh, VEGF receptor signal transduction. Sci STKE, 2001. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
2001(112): p. RE21. 
Yuan, F., et al., Time-dependent vascular regression and permeability changes in established 
human tumor xenografts induced by an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor/vascular 
permeability factor antibody. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 1996. 93(25): p. 14765-70. 
Gerber, H.P., V. Dixit, and N. Ferrara, Vascular endothelial growth factor induces expression 
of the antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and A1 in vascular endothelial cells. J Biol Chem, 1998. 
273(21): p. 13313-6. 
Gerber, H.P., et al., Vascular endothelial growth factor regulates endothelial cell survival 
through the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase/Akt signal transduction pathway. Requirement for 
Flk-1/KDR activation. J Biol Chem, 1998. 273(46): p. 30336-43. 
Benjamin, L.E., et al., Selective ablation of immature blood vessels in established human 
tumors follows vascular endothelial growth factor withdrawal. J Clin Invest, 1999. 103(2): p. 
159-65. 
Compernolle, V., et al., Loss of HIF-2alpha and inhibition of VEGF impair fetal lung 
maturation, whereas treatment with VEGF prevents fatal respiratory distress in premature 
mice. Nat Med, 2002. 8(7): p. 702-10. 
Ku, D.D., et al., Vascular endothelial growth factor induces EDRF-dependent relaxation in 
coronary arteries. Am J Physiol, 1993. 265(2 Pt 2): p. H586-92. 
Senger, D.R., et al., Tumor cells secrete a vascular permeability factor that promotes 
accumulation of ascites fluid. Science, 1983. 219(4587): p. 983-5. 
Clauss, M., et al., Vascular permeability factor: a tumor-derived polypeptide that induces 
endothelial cell and monocyte procoagulant activity, and promotes monocyte migration. J 
Exp Med, 1990. 172(6): p. 1535-45. 
Gabrilovich, D.I., et al., Production of vascular endothelial growth factor by human tumors 
inhibits the functional maturation of dendritic cells. Nat Med, 1996. 2(10): p. 1096-103. 
de Vries, C., et al., The fms-like tyrosine kinase, a receptor for vascular endothelial growth 
factor. Science, 1992. 255(5047): p. 989-91. 
Shibuya, M., et al., Nucleotide sequence and expression of a novel human receptor-type 
tyrosine kinase gene (flt) closely related to the fms family. Oncogene, 1990. 5(4): p. 519-24. 
Terman, B.I., et al., Identification of the KDR tyrosine kinase as a receptor for vascular 
endothelial cell growth factor. Biochem Biophys Res Commun, 1992. 187(3): p. 1579-86. 
Gille, H., et al., Analysis of biological effects and signaling properties of Flt-1 (VEGFR-1) 
and KDR (VEGFR-2). A reassessment using novel receptor-specific vascular endothelial 
growth factor mutants. J Biol Chem, 2001. 276(5): p. 3222-30. 
Page 58/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
67.  Muller, Y.A., et al., VEGF and the Fab fragment of a humanized neutralizing antibody: 
crystal structure of the complex at 2.4 A resolution and mutational analysis of the interface. 
Structure, 1998. 6(9): p. 1153-67. 
Kim, K.J., et al., Inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor-induced angiogenesis 
suppresses tumour growth in vivo. Nature, 1993. 362(6423): p. 841-4. 
68. 
69.  Mordenti, J., et al., Efficacy and concentration-response of murine anti-VEGF monoclonal 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
antibody in tumor-bearing mice and extrapolation to humans. Toxicol Pathol, 1999. 27(1): p. 
14-21. 
Borgstrom, P., et al., Complete inhibition of angiogenesis and growth of microtumors by anti-
vascular endothelial growth factor neutralizing antibody: novel concepts of angiostatic 
therapy from intravital videomicroscopy. Cancer Res, 1996. 56(17): p. 4032-9. 
Rubenstein, J.L., et al., Anti-VEGF antibody treatment of glioblastoma prolongs survival but 
results in increased vascular cooption. Neoplasia, 2000. 2(4): p. 306-14. 
Lee, C.G., et al., Anti-Vascular endothelial growth factor treatment augments tumor radiation 
response under normoxic or hypoxic conditions. Cancer Res, 2000. 60(19): p. 5565-70. 
Gossmann, A., et al., Dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging as a surrogate 
marker of tumor response to anti-angiogenic therapy in a xenograft model of glioblastoma 
multiforme. J Magn Reson Imaging, 2002. 15(3): p. 233-40. 
74.  Mesiano, S., N. Ferrara, and R.B. Jaffe, Role of vascular endothelial growth factor in ovarian 
75. 
76. 
77. 
cancer: inhibition of ascites formation by immunoneutralization. Am J Pathol, 1998. 153(4): 
p. 1249-56. 
Gossmann, A., et al., Magnetic resonance imaging in an experimental model of human 
ovarian cancer demonstrating altered microvascular permeability after inhibition of vascular 
endothelial growth factor. Am J Obstet Gynecol, 2000. 183(4): p. 956-63. 
Hu, L., et al., Vascular endothelial growth factor immunoneutralization plus Paclitaxel 
markedly reduces tumor burden and ascites in athymic mouse model of ovarian cancer. Am J 
Pathol, 2002. 161(5): p. 1917-24. 
Borgstrom, P., et al., Neutralizing anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody 
completely inhibits angiogenesis and growth of human prostate carcinoma micro tumors in 
vivo. Prostate, 1998. 35(1): p. 1-10. 
78.  Melnyk, O., et al., Neutralizing anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody inhibits 
79. 
further growth of established prostate cancer and metastases in a pre-clinical model. J Urol, 
1999. 161(3): p. 960-3. 
Fox, W.D., et al., Antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor slows growth of an 
androgen-independent xenograft model of prostate cancer. Clin Cancer Res, 2002. 8(10): p. 
3226-31. 
80.  Warren, R.S., et al., Regulation by vascular endothelial growth factor of human colon cancer 
81. 
82. 
83. 
tumorigenesis in a mouse model of experimental liver metastasis. J Clin Invest, 1995. 95(4): 
p. 1789-97. 
Rowe, D.H., et al., Anti-VEGF antibody suppresses primary tumor growth and metastasis in 
an experimental model of Wilms' tumor. J Pediatr Surg, 2000. 35(1): p. 30-2; discussion 32-3. 
Soffer, S.Z., et al., Combination antiangiogenic therapy: increased efficacy in a murine 
model of Wilms tumor. J Pediatr Surg, 2001. 36(8): p. 1177-81. 
Kim, E., et al., All angiogenesis is not the same: Distinct patterns of response to 
antiangiogenic therapy in experimental neuroblastoma and Wilms tumor. J Pediatr Surg, 
2001. 36(2): p. 287-90. 
85. 
84.  McCrudden, K.W., et al., Anti-VEGF antibody in experimental hepatoblastoma: suppression 
of tumor growth and altered angiogenesis. J Pediatr Surg, 2003. 38(3): p. 308-14; discussion 
308-14. 
Kim, E.S., et al., Distinct response of experimental neuroblastoma to combination 
antiangiogenic strategies. J Pediatr Surg, 2002. 37(3): p. 518-22. 
Pham, C.D., et al., Magnetic resonance imaging detects suppression of tumor vascular 
permeability after administration of antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor. Cancer 
Invest, 1998. 16(4): p. 225-30. 
86. 
Page 59/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
Brasch, R., et al., Assessing tumor angiogenesis using macromolecular MR imaging contrast 
media. J Magn Reson Imaging, 1997. 7(1): p. 68-74. 
Borgstrom, P., et al., Importance of VEGF for breast cancer angiogenesis in vivo: 
implications from intravital microscopy of combination treatments with an anti-VEGF 
neutralizing monoclonal antibody and doxorubicin. Anticancer Res, 1999. 19(5B): p. 4203-
14. 
Sweeney, C.J., et al., The antiangiogenic property of docetaxel is synergistic with a 
recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor or 
2-methoxyestradiol but antagonized by endothelial growth factors. Cancer Res, 2001. 61(8): 
p. 3369-72. 
Hotz, H.G., et al., Evaluation of vascular endothelial growth factor blockade and matrix 
metalloproteinase inhibition as a combination therapy for experimental human pancreatic 
cancer. J Gastrointest Surg, 2003. 7(2): p. 220-7; discussion 227-8. 
Ryan, A.M., et al., Preclinical safety evaluation of rhuMAbVEGF, an antiangiogenic 
humanized monoclonal antibody. Toxicol Pathol, 1999. 27(1): p. 78-86. 
Fox, J.A., et al., Tissue distribution and complex formation with IgE of an anti-IgE antibody 
after intravenous administration in cynomolgus monkeys. J Pharmacol Exp Ther, 1996. 
279(2): p. 1000-8. 
Arizono, H., et al., Pharmacokinetics of a new human monoclonal antibody against 
cytomegalovirus. First communication: plasma concentration, distribution, metabolism and 
excretion of the new monoclonal antibody, regavirumab after intravenous administration in 
rats and rabbits. Arzneimittelforschung, 1994. 44(7): p. 890-8. 
Ghetie, V., et al., Abnormally short serum half-lives of IgG in beta 2-microglobulin-deficient 
mice. Eur J Immunol, 1996. 26(3): p. 690-6. 
Junghans, R.P. and C.L. Anderson, The protection receptor for IgG catabolism is the beta2-
microglobulin-containing neonatal intestinal transport receptor. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 
1996. 93(11): p. 5512-6. 
Israel, E.J., et al., Increased clearance of IgG in mice that lack beta 2-microglobulin: possible 
protective role of FcRn. Immunology, 1996. 89(4): p. 573-8. 
Ghetie, V. and E.S. Ward, Multiple roles for the major histocompatibility complex class I- 
related receptor FcRn. Annu Rev Immunol, 2000. 18: p. 739-66. 
Simister, N.E. and K.E. Mostov, Cloning and expression of the neonatal rat intestinal Fc 
receptor, a major histocompatibility complex class I antigen homolog. Cold Spring Harb 
Symp Quant Biol, 1989. 54 Pt 1: p. 571-80. 
Story, C.M., J.E. Mikulska, and N.E. Simister, A major histocompatibility complex class I-like 
Fc receptor cloned from human placenta: possible role in transfer of immunoglobulin G from 
mother to fetus. J Exp Med, 1994. 180(6): p. 2377-81. 
100.  Borvak, J., et al., Functional expression of the MHC class I-related receptor, FcRn, in 
101. 
endothelial cells of mice. Int Immunol, 1998. 10(9): p. 1289-98. 
Junghans, R.P., Finally! The Brambell receptor (FcRB). Mediator of transmission of 
immunity and protection from catabolism for IgG. Immunol Res, 1997. 16(1): p. 29-57. 
102.  Henderson, L.A., J.W. Baynes, and S.R. Thorpe, Identification of the sites of IgG catabolism 
103. 
in the rat. Arch Biochem Biophys, 1982. 215(1): p. 1-11. 
Schoenhoff M, et al., Pharmacokinetics/dynamics following administration of a recombinant 
humanized monoclonal anti IgE antibody in the cynomolgus monkey [abstract]. J Allergy 
Clin Immunol, 1995. 95(1 Pt 2): p. 356. 
104.  Howdieshell, T.R., et al., Normoxic wound fluid contains high levels of vascular endothelial 
growth factor. Ann Surg, 1998. 228(5): p. 707-15. 
105.  Nissen, N.N., et al., Vascular endothelial growth factor mediates angiogenic activity during 
106. 
the proliferative phase of wound healing. Am J Pathol, 1998. 152(6): p. 1445-52. 
Tonnesen, M.G., X. Feng, and R.A. Clark, Angiogenesis in wound healing. J Investig 
Dermatol Symp Proc, 2000. 5(1): p. 40-6. 
Page 60/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
107. 
ICH S6, Preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals, International 
Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals 
for Human Use, Editor. 1997. 
108.  Hurwitz, H., et al., Bevacizumab plus irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin for metastatic 
colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med, 2004. 350(23): p. 2335-42. 
109.  Kabbinavar, F.F., et al., Bevacizumab (a monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth 
factor) to prolong progression-free survival in first-line colorectal cancer (CRC) in subjects 
who are not suitable candidates for first-line CPT-11 (Abstract No: 3516 ). Journal of Clinical 
Oncology 2004 ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings (Post-Meeting Edition), 2004. 22(14S July 
15 Supp.): p. 2004: 3516. 
110.  Kabbinavar, F., et al., Phase II, randomized trial comparing bevacizumab plus fluorouracil 
(FU)/leucovorin (LV) with FU/LV alone in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin 
Oncol, 2003. 21(1): p. 60-5. 
111.  Giantonio, B.J., et al., Bevacizumab (anti-VEGF) plus IFL (irinotecan, fluorouracil, 
leucovorin) as front-line therapy for advanced colorectal cancer (advCRC): Updated results 
from the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Study E2200. Proc ASCO GI 2004 
(abstr 289). 2004. 
112.  Giantonio, B.J., et al., The addition of bevacizumab (anti-VEGF) to FOLFOX4 in previously 
treated advanced colorectal cancer (advCRC): An updated interim toxicity analysis of the 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) study E3200. Proc ASCO GI 2004 (abstr 
241), 2004. 
Page 61/61 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
