Annex 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for refusal of the variation presented by the 
European Medicines Agency 
1/6 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Scientific conclusions 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation 
The MAH for Avastin applied for an extension of indication to include Avastin in combination 
with radiotherapy and temozolomide for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed 
glioblastoma. 
• 
Efficacy issues 
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  was  based  on  a  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled, 
multicenter  phase  III  trial  (study  BO21990,  “AVAglio”)  of  bevacizumab,  temozolomide  and 
radiotherapy  (concomitant  phase)  followed  by  bevacizumab  and  temozolomide  (maintenance 
phase)  followed  by  bevacizumab  (monotherapy  phase)  versus  placebo,  temozolomide  (TMZ) 
and  radiotherapy  followed  by  placebo  and  temozolomide  followed  by  placebo  in  patients  with 
newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM).  
Bevacizumab  was  administered  at  a  dose  of  10  mg/kg  every  two  weeks  in  the  concurrent 
phase  and  the  maintenance  phase,  and  at  a  dose  of  15  mg/kg  every  three  weeks  in  the 
monotherapy phase. Radiotherapy and TMZ were administered in line with standard regimens 
used in the setting of newly diagnosed glioblastoma (Stupp et al., 2005). 
Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by the investigator were 
co-primary endpoints of the trial. Disease progression was assessed using adapted Macdonald 
criteria  (Chinot  et  al.,  2013).  The  primary  analysis  of  PFS  showed  a  statistically  significant 
difference in favour of bevacizumab (HR 0.64, 95%CI 0.55-0.74; p<0.0001). The median PFS 
was estimated to be 10.6 months in the bevacizumab arm and 6.2 months in the placebo arm. 
The  analysis  OS  showed  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  survival  time  between  the 
bevacizumab arm and the placebo arm (HR 0.89, 95% CI 0.75-1.07, p=0.2135). 
The main efficacy issue was about the clinical relevance of the radiological endpoint PFS in the 
absence of a clinically relevant effect on OS. Antiangiogenic agents, especially those targeting 
vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  (VEGF),  such  as  bevacizumab,  can  produce  marked 
decrease  in  contrast  enhancement  and  commonly  result  in  high  radiologic  response  rates. 
These  apparent  responses  are  not  always  necessarily  indicative  of  a  true  antiglioma  effect. 
Although  standard  response  assessment  criteria  have  been  further  developed  (RANO  criteria) 
aiming  to  minimise  this  issue  and  inform  treatment  decisions,  validation  of  these  criteria  as 
clinical benefit endpoints is still ongoing (Wen et al., 2010). Due to these reasons, the clinical 
relevance  of  the  observed  difference  in  the  primary  analysis  of  PFS  is  unknown.  This  is  in 
agreement with the conclusions of the Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) consulted. The SAG also 
commented  on  the  long  survival  observed  for  numerous  patients  with  early  progression  and 
concluded that this finding was counterintuitive and possibly a further indication of the lack of 
clinical meaningfulness of the PFS adjudication criteria used in the study. 
The  analysis  OS  showed  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  survival  time  between  the 
bevacizumab  arm  and  the  placebo  arm.  Arguably,  one-way  cross-over  after  progression  may 
hamper  the  detection  of  a  difference  in  OS.  However,  there  are  no  established  methods  of 
analysis that can remedy this after cross-over has occurred. 
2/6 
 
The analyses of the secondary endpoint health-related quality of life (HRQoL) did not show an 
advantage of addition of bevacizumab to standard treatment. An effect was claimed based on 
analysis of the secondary endpoint time to definitive deterioration in HRQoL. However, in this 
analysis, progressive disease (which suffers of the limitations described above) was included as 
a deterioration event. Furthermore, it was unclear to what extent HRQoL data collection could 
have  been  influenced  by  knowledge  of  the  response  status.  Similar  limitations  apply  to  the 
determination of performance status. 
Other endpoints including corticosteroid use, and sign and symptoms of GMB also need special 
consideration  in  light  of  the  nature  of  the  mechanism  of  bevacizumab.  Changes  in 
corticosteroid  use,  normally  considered  indicative  for  disease  progression  are  confounded  by 
the overlapping physiological effects of corticosteroids and bevacizumab.  
The  observed  efficacy  results  in  study  BO21990  were  overall  consistent  with  the  results 
reported  from  another  trial  investigating  the  effect  of  bevacizumab  in  glioblastoma 
(RTOG0825),  i.e.,  no  effect  on  OS,  no  benefit  in  terms  of  HRQoL,  and  possibly  even  a 
detriment in neurocognitive functioning (as suggested in study RTOG0825).  
Overall  the  conclusion  on  the  efficacy  of  bevacizumab  in  this  setting  was  that  the  clinical 
relevance  of  the  observed  effect  on  PFS  cannot  be determined  and  that  a  relevant  effect  has 
not  been  established  on  the  basis  of  any  other  clinical  relevant  endpoint.  Thus,  with  the 
evidence provided, the efficacy of bevacizumab has not been convincingly demonstrated. 
• 
Safety issues 
The  most  frequent  toxicity  associated  with  the  bevacizumab  treatment  group  were 
gastrointestinal  (nausea,  constipation,  vomiting),  alopecia, 
fatigue,  thrombocytopenia, 
headache  and  hypertension. No  new  safety  signals with  bevacizumab  were  observed  in  study 
BO21990,  but  there  was  a  higher  incidence  of  Grade  3  and  4  AEs,  SAEs,  non-progression 
deaths, and discontinuations of treatment in the bevacizumab group. Arterial thromboembolic 
events, mainly ischaemic strokes, were observed at a slightly higher incidence rate in this trial 
(5.0%)  than  in  previous  bevacizumab  trials  (up  to  3.8%  in  combination  with  different 
chemotherapies),  and  higher  than  in  the  placebo  group  (1.6%).  Overall,  the  toxicity  of 
bevacizumab in this regimen and combination did not, in itself, raise major concerns. However, 
in  the  absence  of  established  efficacy,  the  toxicity  of  this  regiment  cannot  be  considered 
acceptable. 
Therefore, the CHMP concluded on 22 May 2014 that the benefit/risk ratio of bevacizumab in 
combination with radiotherapy and temozolomide  for the treatment of adult patients with 
newly diagnosed glioblastoma was negative. 
Following the CHMP scientific conclusions adopted in 22 May 2014 that Avastin was not 
approvable in combination with radiotherapy and temozolomide  for the treatment of adult 
patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma on the basis of the following grounds for the 
refusal of the Marketing Authorisation: 
• 
The efficacy of bevacizumab in combination with radiotherapy and temozolomide for the 
treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma has not been sufficiently 
demonstrated; 
• 
In the absence of established efficacy, a positive benefit-risk balance has not been 
3/6 
 
established.  
Following the above CHMP opinion, the applicant requested re-examination and submitted on 
22  July  2014  its  detailed  grounds  for  the  request  for  re-examination  of  the  CHMP  opinion 
recommending the refusal of the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
The applicant presented his rationale in writing and at an oral explanation. 
Summary of the applicant’s response to the grounds for re-examination: 
Study methodology including imaging and disease assessment criteria:  The applicant 
considered that the pivotal study (Avaglio) was designed using standard methodology in GBM 
for the assessment of tumour growth and followed the current clinical practice. While the 
applicant acknowledged that there is an on-going evolution of the criteria used to assess 
disease progression in brain tumours, they contended that the criteria used in Avaglio study 
represent the most advanced and accepted technology in line with expert recommendations. 
Several strategies were applied prospectively in Avaglio in order to minimize the possibility of 
incorrectly interpreting the MRI scan including implementation of an algorithm for the 
determination of pseudo-progression. 
Reliability of PFS:  The applicant considered that the robustness and reliability of the primary 
analysis of PFS was confirmed in a number of predefined and post-hoc sensitivity analyses. 
Key post-hoc sensitivity analyses that took into account the concerns raised by the CHMP on 
the reliability of the imaging technique to detect disease progression excluded patients 1) with 
potential or confirmed pseudo-progression, 2) with possible pseudo-progression in the Pl+RT/T 
arm and possible pseudo-response in the Bv+RT/T arm and 3) with PFS < Day 93 to avoid any 
potential impact of pseudo-progression and post-radiation imaging changes at the first disease 
assessment. The applicant provided an additional post-hoc PFS analysis where all progressions 
exclusively based on non-index lesions were not regarded as a PFS event.  
Finally, the applicant provided a post-hoc analysis in line with the RANO criteria (Wen et al., 
2010), which are the current standard used in clinical trials. According to this analysis, 84% of 
the PFS events could be considered unequivocal. 
Clinical relevance of PFS:  The applicant considered that Avaglio study used a variety of 
validated and reliable measures to assess the clinical status that captured the patient’s 
perspective (health-related quality of life [HRQOL]), neurocognitive function (Mini Mental 
Status Examination [MMSE]), and functional status (Karnofsky Performance Status [KPS]). 
According to the applicant, the KPS results showed a delay in time to definitive deterioration in 
KPS in favour of bevacizumab irrespective of whether PD was included (pre-specified) or 
excluded (exploratory) as an event. At the time of disease progression, the data indicated a 
trend for deterioration in functional status and HRQoL compared to the assessments prior to 
progression, which underscores the clinical importance for the patients of delaying the time 
until disease progression. While the Applicant acknowledged that limited data was captured 
beyond the time of progression, they contended that this does not diminish the value of the 
data captured on study. 
Absence of OS benefit:  According to the applicant, the use of subsequent lines of therapy, that 
often included bevacizumab, may have confounded the result. The applicant concluded that 
4/6 
 
despite the obvious flaws and biases of the exploratory survival analyses these analyses 
indicated a beneficial effect of bevacizumab. 
Overall conclusion on grounds for re-examination  
The CHMP assessed all the detailed grounds for re-examination and argumentations presented 
by the applicant. 
Regarding the MRI evaluation of disease progression, the CHMP maintained the view that the 
impact of the use of adapted criteria in Study BO21990 remains unclear. The number of PD 
events may have been overestimated in the placebo arm and underestimated in the 
bevacizumab arm. The applicant did not convincingly show that the sensitivity analyses 
performed were able to mitigate the risk of systematic biases in the evaluation of PFS and 
were adequate to provide sufficient reassurance that bevacizumab produces a PFS increase of 
clinically important magnitude. In particular, the applicant did not clearly justify how the 
criteria chosen to exclude specific patients or events in the various sensitivity analyses were 
able to address the biases/uncertainties around the assessment of progression. 
The results of the post hoc analysis according to the RANO criteria were not considered 
sufficiently robust to resolve the uncertainties around the PFS results. This analysis resulted in 
an estimated benefit of smaller magnitude, based on an analysis that, necessarily but 
problematically, introduces some informative censoring. All the additional analyses cannot 
exclude the possibility of important bias and the estimated effect is not regarded as sufficiently 
reliable to conclude that a clinically relevant therapeutic efficacy has been established. 
Thus, the CHMP maintained the view that it was not possible to estimate with sufficient 
confidence the magnitude of the gain in tumour control provided by bevacizumab when added 
to standard of care. 
Regarding clinical outcomes, the applicant proposed that only maintenance of QoL to the time 
of disease progression may be expected, and this can be accepted. However, the CHMP 
concluded that the positive effects claimed by the applicant are mainly driven by the inclusion 
of PD as an event in these analyses, and therefore, they cannot provide independent support 
or insight into the clinical benefits of delaying progression. Nominally, statistically significant 
results were retained for some parameters when PD was not counted as a deterioration event. 
These analyses should be interpreted with caution since relevant data were not collected 
systematically after disease progression and the consequent impact of (potentially informative) 
censoring on the results is unclear. In addition, some assessments may have been influenced 
by knowledge of progression status. 
Concerning overall survival, the CHMP acknowledged that no OS benefit had been observed in 
Study BO21990, a finding consistent with the result of the RTOG 0825 trial. It has not been 
established that the most likely cause for the failure to demonstrate an OS benefit is 
confounded by post-progression treatments (including crossover to bevacizumab) rather than 
lack of an effect. 
In conclusion, as the clinical relevance of the efficacy results is uncertain, and the benefit-risk 
balance of bevacizumab as an add-on therapy to standard of care for newly diagnosed 
glioblastoma is considered negative. 
5/6 
 
Recommendations following re-examination 
Based on the arguments of the applicant and all the supporting data on safety and efficacy, the 
CHMP re-examined its initial opinion and in its final opinion concluded by majority decision that 
the efficacy of the above mentioned medicinal product is not sufficiently demonstrated, and, 
therefore maintains its recommendation for the refusal of the variation of the Marketing 
Authorisation for the above mentioned medicinal product. The CHMP considers that: 
• 
The efficacy of bevacizumab in combination with radiotherapy and temozolomide for the 
treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma has not been sufficiently 
demonstrated; 
• 
In  the  absence  of  established  efficacy,  a  positive  benefit-risk  balance  has  not  been 
established.  
Therefore,  the  CHMP  has  recommended  the  refusal  of  the  variation  of  the  marketing 
authorisation for Avastin in the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma 
in combination with radiotherapy and temozolomide. 
6/6 
 
