EMA/547135/2019 
EMEA/H/C/000102 
Avonex (interferon beta-1a) 
An overview of Avonex and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Avonex and what is it used for? 
Avonex is a medicine used to treat: 
• 
• 
patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a disease in which inflammation damages the 
protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves themselves. In relapsing 
MS, the patient has attacks (relapses) between periods with no symptoms. Avonex slows the 
progression of disability and reduces the number of relapses; 
patients who have had a single attack of demyelination, when this is severe enough to need 
treatment with injectable corticosteroids (anti-inflammatory medicines). It is used when the 
patient is considered to be at high risk of developing MS. Before using Avonex, doctors need to 
exclude other causes for the symptoms. 
Avonex contains the active substance interferon beta-1a. 
How is Avonex used? 
Avonex can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the management of MS. 
Avonex is available as a solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen. Each syringe and 
pen contains 30 micrograms of interferon beta-1a. 
In adults (aged 18 years or over), the recommended dose of Avonex is 30 micrograms, given by 
injection into a muscle once a week. To help patients adjust to treatment, the doctor may recommend 
that patients start with a lower dose once a week before increasing to the full dose. This can only be 
done with the pre-filled syringe, when it is fitted with a special device that attaches onto the syringe 
and only allows the lower dose of Avonex to be injected.  
The site of injection should be changed each week. Patients can inject Avonex themselves once they 
have been trained. A painkiller that prevents fever can be given before each injection and for 24 hours 
after injection to reduce the flu-like symptoms that may occur during the first few months of 
treatment. Avonex treatment should be stopped in patients who develop progressive (worsening) MS. 
For more information about using Avonex, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Avonex work? 
The active substance in Avonex is the protein interferon beta-1a, one of a group of interferons that can 
be naturally produced by the body to help it fight against viruses and other attacks. In MS, the 
immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions and attacks parts of the central nervous 
system (the brain, spinal cord and optic nerve [nerve that sends signals from the eye to the brain]), 
causing inflammation that damages the nerves and the insulation around them. The exact way that 
Avonex works in MS is not yet known but the active substance, interferon beta-1a, seems to calm 
down the immune system, and prevents relapses of MS. 
What benefits of Avonex have been shown in studies? 
Avonex has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies. The first study 
involved 301 patients aged 16 years and older with relapsing MS who had experienced at least two 
relapses in the previous three years or at least one relapse per year if they had had the disease for 
less than three years. Treatment continued for up to two years. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the number of patients whose disability got worse. After two years, 22% of the patients who were 
treated with Avonex and 35% of the patients treated with placebo had a worsening of disability. 
The second study involved 383 adults who had experienced a single attack of demyelination and 
compared the ability of Avonex and placebo to reduce the risk of a second attack. The estimated risk of 
having a second attack of demyelination was lower in the patients taking Avonex than in the patients 
taking placebo: with Avonex, the risk was 21% in two years and 35% in three years, whereas the risk 
with placebo was 39% in two years and 50% in three years. 
The company has not carried out any formal studies of patients under 16 years of age. However, it 
presented information from published studies on the use of Avonex in patients aged between 12 and 
18 years, which showed that they had a decrease in the rate of relapse, possibly due to Avonex 
treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Avonex? 
The most common side effects with Avonex (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, flu-like symptoms, pyrexia (fever), chills and sweating. These side effects decrease with 
continued treatment. The side effects are similar in adults and in children.  
Avonex must not be used in patients who have severe depression or have thoughts of suicide.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Avonex, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Avonex authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Avonex’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Avonex? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Avonex have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Avonex (interferon beta-1a)  
EMA/547135/2019  
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Avonex are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Avonex are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Avonex 
Avonex received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 March 1997.  
Further information on Avonex can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/avonex.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
Avonex (interferon beta-1a)  
EMA/547135/2019  
Page 3/3 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
