SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Avonex.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 June 2002. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8B 
1 
Introduction 
Multiple  sclerosis  (MS)  is  characterised  by  chronic  patchy  inflammation  of  the  CNS  with 
demyelination and gliosis (scarring). Although the etiology of the disorder is unknown, immunologic 
abnormalities are considered to be important in its pathogenesis. 
The characteristics of the clinical course of MS may be classified into four categories: 
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
relapsing-remitting  form  (approximately  65%  of  patients)  with  attacks  of  neurologic 
dysfunction attributable to central nervous system plaques. Dysfunction resolves within weeks 
or months; 
relapsing/progressive form (about 15% of the patients) who have clinical exacerbations of the 
neurologic dysfunction with residual disability; 
a chronic progressive form from onset; 
a silent form, in which the disease remains inactive for years after one or two exacerbations with 
or without residual disability. 
These  clinical  categories  are  not  fixed  and  patients  may  change  category  during  the  course  of  their 
disease. 
Therapy  for  MS  can  be  symptomatic,  for  treatment  of  acute  relapses,  reducing  relapse  rate  and 
progression towards disability or handicap. Acute relapses are often treated with corticosteroids. 
Treatment  for  reducing  the  frequency  of  exacerbations  has  so  far  been  based  on  the  use  of 
immunosuppressants; corticoids and ACTH have not proven to be efficacious. 
β-Interferons  have  recently  been  recognised  as  potentially  beneficial  in  the  treatment  of  MS. 
Interferons  are  cytokines  that  mediate  antiviral,  antiproliferative  and  immunomodulatory  activities. 
Whether  the  mechanism  of  action  of  the  β-interferons  in  multiple  sclerosis  is  mediated  by  the  same 
pathway  as  the  biological  effects  described  above  is  not  known  because  the  pathophysiology  of 
multiple sclerosis is not well-known. 
AVONEX is a recombinant human beta-1a Interferon and is produced from Chinese Hamster Ovary 
(CHO)  cells  which  contain  the  gene  for  human  interferon  beta.  Interferon  beta  1a  (IFN-b-1a)  is  a 
glycosylated polypetide containing 166 amino acid residues. The amino acid sequence of AVONEX is 
reported to be identical to that of natural human interferon beta.  
The indications of AVONEX are as follows:  
“AVONEX  (Interferon  beta-1a)  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  ambulatory  patients  with  relapsing 
multiple  sclerosis  (MS)  characterized  by  at  least  2  recurrent  attacks  of  neurologic  dysfunction 
(relapses)  over  the  preceding  3-year  period  without  evidence  of  continuous  progression  between 
relapses. AVONEX slows the progression of disability and decreases the frequency of relapses.  
Avonex  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  who  have  experienced  a  single  demyelinating 
event with an active inflammatory process if it is severe enough to warrant treatment with intravenous 
corticosteroids, if alternative diagnoses have been excluded, and if they are determined to be at high 
risk of developing clinically definite multiple sclerosis (approved post-authorisation, see section 6). 
AVONEX has not yet been investigated in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis, and should be 
discontinued in patients who develop progressive multiple sclerosis. 
1/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not  all  patients  respond  to  treatment  with  AVONEX.  No  clinical  criteria  that  would  predict  the 
response to treatment have been identified. 
2 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects  
AVONEX (Interferon beta-1a) is formulated as a white to off-white lyophilised powder, containing a 
30 µg (6 million IU) dose of Interferon beta-1a per vial. 
Using  the  World  Health  Organisation  (WHO)  natural  interferon  beta  standard,  Second  International 
Standard for Interferon, Human Fibroblast (Gb-23-902-531), 30 µg of AVONEX contain 6 million IU 
of antiviral activity. 
AVONEX  (Interferon beta-1a)  is available  as a package  of four  individual  doses  of:  AVONEX in a  
3 ml clear glass vial with a 13 mm bromobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium seal. It is provided with 
a  1  ml  pre-filled  glass  syringe  of  solvent  for  reconstitution  and  2  needles,  one  to  be  used  for  the 
reconstitution of the solution, the other to be used for the injection. A new presentation consisting of a 
vial  with  Bioset  device,  which  clips  over  the  current  rubber  stopper  of  the  vial  has  been  recently 
approved. It facilitates the attachment of the prefilled syringe directly to the vial thereby removing the 
need for the reconstitution needle. 
The  stability  of  AVONEX  is  24  months  at  up  to  25°C  and  6  hours  at  2-8°C  for  the  reconstituted 
product. A shelf life of 36 months for the active substance (IFN-beta-1a) is supported by the additional 
data submitted post-approval. 
The  active  ingredient  in  AVONEX  is  Interferon  beta-1a,  the  recombinant  form  of  human  interferon 
beta. It comprises 166 amino acids, is glycosylated at residue 80 and contains a single disulfide bond. 
The interferon gene was obtained from a line of human leukocytes. The DNA was amplified by PCR 
and cloned into an expression vector. A CHO cell line was used as host. 
The expression construct for IFN beta-1a is entirely sequenced by the company and the sequence of 
the selection plasmid has been verified. 
Cells  are  grown  in  a  bioreactor  and  Interferon  beta-1a  is  purified  from  the  conditioned  medium  by 
filtration and multiple chromatographic steps. 
The  purification  process  is  designed  to  purify  IFN  beta-1a  to  an  extent  greater  than  99%  by 
eliminating these contaminants as well as clearing and inactivating inadventitious viruses. 
Routine  specifications  for  performance  of  each  column  have  been  defined  and  the  manner  of 
production collection has been clarified. The purified product is finally formulated with human serum 
albumin and lyophilised. 
The  full-scale  production  process  was  validated  through  a  compilation  of  the  process  results  of  the 
manufacturing of five consecutive batches. 
The  results  of  batch  analyses  indicated  that  several  specification  limits  could  be  tightened  and  the 
applicant agreed to them. The revised specification and analytical methods are considered adequate to 
ensure  the  quality  and  consistency  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product.  All  questions 
raised  regarding  quality  during  the  assessment  of  the  application  have  been  answered  to  the 
satisfaction of all member states.  
The specifications for the active substance and finished product have been tightened post approval. In 
addition the methods for release testing of the IFN-beta-Ia bulk intermediate and finished product have 
also been reviewed and changed through relevant variations. 
The major issue concerning the biopharmaceutical dossier of AVONEX was that in the development 
of AVONEX, the active substance used in the clinical trials (BG 9015) was not identical to the one 
contained  in  the  medicinal  product  intended  for  marketing  (BG  9418).  Both  molecules  are  secreted 
from the same Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) host cell line; however, the two molecules are derived 
from different plasmids and MCB. Furthermore, cell culture process and the purification scheme used 
in the preparation of BG 9418 and BG 9015 are not strictly identical. 
2/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  fact,  in  the  initial  assessment  of  the  dossiers,  caused  the  CPMP  to  raise  questions  about  the 
overall compatibility of the results obtained in the various studies and trials.  
In  the  absence  of  regulatory  guidelines  addressing  the  issue  of  the  bioequivalence  of  medicinal 
products derived by r-DNA technology, and in the absence of a clear-cut knowledge of the mechanism 
of  action  of  interferons  in  the  treatment  of  multiple  sclerosis,  the  Applicant  carried  out  an  in-depth 
structural and functional comparison of the two interferons beta-1a (BG 9015 vs BG 9418).  
These biological, functional and physico-chemical tests have satisfactorily demonstrated that BG9015 
and BG9418 are comparable.  
On the basis of the data provided, the in vitro functional assays can be considered plausibly predictive 
of  the  clinical  efficacy  in  MS,  as  the  clinical  efficacy  of  IFN  beta-1a  is  understood  to  be  the 
consequence  of  the  intracellular  events  elicited  by  the  binding  of  the  interferon  molecules  to  their 
receptor. On these grounds, the efficacy data obtained with BG9015 may be considered applicable for 
BG 9418, the product intended for marketing.  
The antigenicity of AVONEX was directly measured in different clinical studies.  
Data provided post-authorisation on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The company continued to provide data on an ongoing basis in the form of the type type II variations, 
and precision, as well as I provided as part of the “Follow-up Biotechnology Measures. The resulting 
CPMP positive opinions dated 18 November 1997 and 6 November 1998 have led to: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Improvement of the testing to be performed on both the active ingredient and finished product 
allowing a better definition of specifications. This has been achieved by: 
Improving peptide mapping method,  
Development of new methods for testing the active ingredient, 
Development in specific testing of the finished product,  
Suppression of DNA testing on the active ingredient and General Safety testing on the finished 
product as justified by experience gained. 
Approval  of  two  alternate  manufacturing  sites (active ingredient  manufacturing  site in the US 
and formulation and lyophilisation of finished product in France). 
Extension of shelf life for both the active ingredient and finished product. 
3 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
No  acceptable  animal  model  or  in  vitro  model  for  MS  exists  as  yet  in  a  species  that  is 
pharmacodynamically responsive to recombinant human IFN beta-1a (rh IFN beta-1a). 
The specific mechanism by which rh IFN beta-1a exerts its effect in MS is unknown.  
Since  the  activities  of  rh  IFN  beta-1a  are  highly  species-specific,  the  most  relevant  information  is 
derived from in vitro studies in human cell cultures and in vivo studies in rhesus monkeys. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Serum concentrations of IFN beta-1a were measured as antiviral activity in the CPE bioassay. 
Pharmacokinetics  were  studied  after  a  single  i.v.,  s.c.,  or  i.m.  administration.  Following  i.v. 
administration,  the  distribution  volume  was  found  to  be  within  the  range  of  the  total  body  water 
volume  and  the  clearance  rate  was  found  to  exceed  the  approximate  glomerular  filtration  rate  for 
monkeys. It is therefore considered that rh IFN beta may be cleared by a combination of glomerular 
filtration and other mechanisms. 
3/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon i.m. administration, AUC and Cmax values were found to be in the same range as those found in 
human volunteers. 
Limited pharmacokinetic data are available with respect to tissue distribution, plasma protein binding 
and metabolism due to the difficulties in measuring intact rh IFN beta-1a. 
Toxicology 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  showed  that  no  acute  toxicity  was  observed  in  rhesus  monkey  upon 
single i.v. and s.c. administration. 
Several repeated s.c. dose studies were performed in rhesus monkeys; the duration of treatment ranged 
from  2  to  9  weeks  (including  recovery).  In  general  body  weights,  clinical  signs,  physical 
examinations, heart rate, blood pressure, electrocardiograms, ophthalmic examinations, haematology, 
serum  chemistry,  urinalysis  and  organ  weights  were  not  affected  by  treatment  with  any  of  these 
preparations.  A  few  clinical  changes  were  evident,  including  elevated  body  temperature,  decreased 
food consumption, decreased platelet counts and slightly decreased serum albumin concentrations.  
All  of  these  effects  were  negated  by  anti-  rh  IFN  beta  neutralising  antibodies  that  became  evident 
within 2 weeks after initiation of treatment. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  performed  because  rh  IFN  beta-1a  has  no  mutagenic  or  mitogenic 
potential. Its close similarity to the endogenous human protein that is not thought to be carcinogenic is 
also taken into account. 
The Ames test showed that no mutagenic potential was evident at the concentrations tested. 
Statistically reliable data in reproductive toxicity testing can only be obtained by using an excessive 
number of animals. In view of the data obtained, a warning is present in the SPC regarding the well-
known abortifacient potential of IFN beta. 
Local  tolerance  testing  of  AVONEX  in  rabbits  following  a  single  i.m.  injection  showed  no  signs  of 
irritation. In general, the in vivo data show substantial equivalence of the Applicant's Interferon beta-
1a  preparations  with  regard 
immunogenic  and 
toxicological properties. 
their  pharmacological,  pharmacokinetic, 
to 
4 
Clinical aspects 
AVONEX  is  a  recombinant  Interferon  beta-1a  (IFN  beta-1a)  derived  from  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary 
cells containing the gene for human Interferon beta. 
IFN  beta-1a  belongs  to  the  interferon  family.  Interferons  mediate  antiviral,  antiproliferative  and 
immunomodulatory activities. The precise mechanism of action of IFN beta-1a, in multiple sclerosis, 
however, is not known. 
The clinical data support the efficacy of AVONEX in slowing-down the progression of disability and 
decreasing  the  frequency  of  clinical  exacerbations  in  patients  suffering  from  relapsing  multiple 
sclerosis,  defined  as  multiple  sclerosis  with  recurrent  attacks  of  neurological  dysfunction  without 
evidence of continuous progression between relapses. 
Reduction in the number and volume of active brain lesions in relapsing  multiple sclerosis has been 
observed, but the relationship of this finding with the clinical manifestations of the diseases is not yet 
clearly  established  and  therefore  these  data  are  not  considered  markers  of  efficacy  in  multiple 
sclerosis. 
Different forms of recombinant human IFN beta-1a (r-HulFNß) were tested in the studies submitted. 
BG 9015 was the test drug used in the pivotal study submitted. The amino-acid sequence is reported to 
be identical to that of natural HuIFN-ß. The product selected for commercialisation is BG 9418. The 
amino-acid sequence is claimed to be identical to natural HuIFN-ß but the cell-line differs from that of 
BG 9015.  
BG 9014 another r-HuIFNß, was used in the multiple sclerosis pilot study. 
4/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Content of the dossier: 
Five volunteer studies, 2 studies in multiple sclerosis, of which one pivotal, and 7 clinical studies for 
other indications were submitted. Because the latter 7 studies do not concern the indication applied for 
they will not be discussed except for safety reasons when appropriate. 
The  clinical  studies  concerning  the  other  indications  were  all  uncontrolled  and  open-labelled.  The 
indications  were:  basal  cell  carcinoma  (n=17),  recalcitrant  warts  (n=12),  chronic  hepatitis  B  (n=68), 
chronic hepatitis C (n=98), an extension study of the hepatitis B study (n=4) and an extension study of 
the  hepatitis  C  study  (n=11).  INFß-1a  was  injected  locally  or  subcutaneously.  Different  dosing 
schedules were used. Because these studies do not concern the indication applied for they will not be 
discussed except for safety reasons when appropriate. 
Pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics 
Overall, the information on human pharmacokinetics was limited.  
Dose-proportionality  was  not  demonstrated.  It  is  suggested  that  high  baseline  variability  in  antiviral 
activity might mask the dose-response effect. Although there were no data, potential accumulation in 
serum  or 
the 
pharmacokinetic point of view. 
i.m.  administration  seems  unlikely  from 
tissues  following  a  once-weekly 
Using  the  CPE  assay  to  measure  serum  interferon  levels,  BG  9015  and  BG  9418  are  equivalent  in 
terms of pharmacokinetic profiles (study C94-800). However, pharmacokinetics is highly variable: the 
large inter-subject variability and the poor CPE assay sensitivity makes more precise pharmacokinetic 
comparisons impossible. 
It  is  not  known  whether  the  efficacy  of  IFN  beta-1a  in  multiple  sclerosis  is  mediated  by  the  same 
pathway as the antiviral effect and induction of biomarkers by IFN beta-1a. For example, IFN-gamma, 
an interferon with antiviral effect, increases symptoms in multiple sclerosis. Consequently, markers of 
antiviral  effect  cannot  necessarily  be  considered  as  surrogate  parameters  establishing  therapeutic 
equivalence of IFN beta-1a in multiple sclerosis. These finding should be considered in the light of the 
overall information concerning the biopharmaceutical characterisation as previously discussed. 
Clinical efficacy 
Two pilot studies and one pivotal study with IFN beta-1a in multiple sclerosis patients were submitted. 
The  study  designs  are  summarised  in  the  next  table.  The  doses  are  expressed  in  millions  of 
international  units  (MIU)/weekly  injected  intramuscular.  The  studies  were  performed  in  accordance 
with GCP. 
REVIEW OF MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS STUDIES  
Ref  
Type of study/ 
Design 
Treatment groups 
Doses 
NS-2632-1-
01A1  
Pilot I, first part 
Dose tolerance study.  
Randomised, placebo-
controlled double-
blind study 
Pilot I, second 
part 
Crossover study 
Open study 
Placebo (partly) 
INFβ-1a  BG9014 
Doses:  
1.5, 3, 6, 9.5, 18 
MIU/Week 
INFβ-1a  
BG9014 vs BG9015 
Doses : 3, 6, 9.5 
MIU/Week 
n 
5 
Duration of 
treatment  
91 weeks 
Age: 25-43 yrs 
Same subjects   
4 weeks 
5/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
NS-263321 
Efficacy study  
Placebo 
INFβ-1a  BG9015 
143 
158 
Initially   
2 years 
Pivotal 
Randomised, placebo-
controlled double-
blind, multi-centre (4) 
parallel group study 
Doses:  
6 MIU weekly i.m. 
Age 16-55 yrs 
Later 
Variable per 
patient. See 
text. 
Pilot studies 
First pilot study 
The  ß2-microglobulin  levels  measured  at  48  hours  after  the  dose  injection,  significantly  increased 
compared to baseline, under IFN beta-1a 3 MIU, 6 MIU and 9.5 MIU given intramuscularly. Under 
3 MIU IFN beta-1a the increased ß2-microglobulin levels returned to baseline values within 24 hours. 
Under 6 MIU IFN beta-1a, the ß2-microglobulin levels increased  by about 0.5 mg/l and remained at 
these  levels  for  4  days  and  remained  elevated  to  a  lesser  extent  for  the  subsequent  3  days.  The 
response was still present after one year in patients receiving 6 MIU IFN beta-1a weekly. So tolerance 
with respect to the ß2-microglobulin levels seems not to occur. 
2'5-oligoadenylate  synthetase  levels  were  measured  48  hours  after  each  injection  in  the  first  pilot 
study.  2'5-oligoadenylate  synthetase  levels  were  significantly  increased  from  baseline  48  hours  after 
injection of both 3 MIU and 6 MIU IFN beta-1a. 
Second pilot study 
Only  the  ß2-microglobulin  levels  were  measured.  The  magnitude  and  duration  of  ß2-microglobulin 
induction  of  BG  9015  and  BG  9014  differed  but  the  differences  were  inconsistent  between  the 
patients. 
Pivotal study  
One  pivotal  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  study  was  submitted. 
301 patients entered the trial, 13 withdrew early. 
Patients included had definite exacerbating-stable or exacerbating-progressive multiple sclerosis for at 
least one year, having had at least two well-documented exacerbations in the three years prior entry or 
at  least  one  exacerbation  per  year  prior  entry  when  the  duration  of  the  disease  was  less  than  three 
years.  
Also patients had to be exacerbation-free for at least two months prior to study entry and disability had 
to be between 1 and 3.5 points on the Kurtzke disability score (EDSS).  
Patients  with  chronic  progressive  multiple  sclerosis,  patients  with  progression  between  relapses, 
patients  on  prior 
and  on 
ACTH-corticosteroids within two months prior study entry were excluded.  
immunosuppressant  drugs 
treatment,  on  prior 
interferon 
ACTH  and  methylprednisolone were  allowed on  the  occurrence of an  exacerbation when symptoms 
warrant  their  use.  Dosage  was  defined  according  to  protocol.  Symptomatic  pharmacotherapy  was 
permitted.  
Patients  were  randomised  to  placebo  or  rIFN  beta-1a  6X106  IU  (30  µg)  intramuscular  once  weekly 
during two years. Simultaneously acetaminophen prophylaxis was given. 
The primary efficacy parameter was the time to sustained progression in disability. This was defined 
as a sustained, that is at least six months persisting, one point increase (=worsening) in the Expanded 
Disability  Status  Score  (EDSS)1  as  assessed  by  the  blinded  examining  physician.  The  examining 
1   The EDSS is an ordinal scale taking values from 0.0, 1.0, 1.5 and thereafter increasing by 0.5 points up to a maximum of 
10 points. An EDSS of 1.0 to 4.5 refers to patients fully ambulatory and grades 5.0 to 9.5 are defined by impairment of 
ambulation. An EDSS of 10 is defined as death due to multiple sclerosis. 
6/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                      
physician was not involved in treatment. According to the study report a slightly modified EDSS was 
used. 
Secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  EDSS-derived  parameters,  exacerbation-derived  parameters, 
upper  and  lower  extremity  disability  /  visual  function  and  MRI-identified  plaque  load.  In  addition  
21  neuropsychological  test  performances,  study  blinding,  IFNß-1a  serum  neutralising  activity  and 
ß2-microglobulin  levels  were  evaluated.  ß2-microglobulin  sampling  was  discontinued  because  this 
marker was not of value to track compliance in individual patients. 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in  any  baseline 
demographic or disease characteristic. Adjustment for prognostic factors identified did not invalidate 
the treatment effect. It was concluded that the treatment groups were homogeneous. 
Time to sustained progression in disability 
Time to sustained progression in disability was significantly longer in patients with interferon beta-1a 
than in placebo patients. The same tendency was observed in three of the four centres participating in 
the  study  but  in  the  remaining  Buffalo  site,  the  interferon  patients  did  worse  than  the  placebo  ones. 
The lower progression rate and lack of a positive effect at the Buffalo site is explained by inclusion of 
patients with less advanced disease relative to patients enrolled at the other three sites.  
Although  patient  characteristics  differed  from  site  to  site,  at  each  site  they  were  within  the 
requirements  of  the  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  specified  in  the  protocol.  A  new  analysis  that 
excludes the patients at the Buffalo site yields a significant treatment effect with a p-value of 0.002 for 
the primary endpoint. 
In addition, the results on time to disability were robust for more conservative endpoint indicating that 
the duration of the trial was sufficient: 
In addition, the results on time to disability were robust for more conservative endpoint indicating that 
the duration of the trial was sufficient:  
Number of progressors at endpoint 
Progression level on EDSS 
Placebo 
INFβ-1a  Log-rank test  % 
reduction 
in 
proportion regression 
At  least  1  point  sustained  6 
months 
At  least  1  point  sustained  12 
months 
At  least  2  point  sustained  6 
months 
36 (25%) 
35 (24%) 
17 (12%) 
24 
(15%) 
17 
(11%) 
8 (5%) 
p value 
0.024 
0.002 
0.028 
40% 
54% 
58% 
7/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exacerbations 
During the first year there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups in number 
of exacerbations. Over two years a statistically significant difference was seen between the two groups 
in  exacerbation  rate  (p=0.002). During  the  second year  the  exacerbation  rate  difference  between  the 
two  groups  increased  though  there  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  proportion  of 
patients who were exacerbation-free. 
Magnetic Resonance 
Results of the number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions are summarised in the next table. Gadolinium-
enhanced lesions stand for active inflammatory lesions. Similar results were seen when the volume of 
Gadolinium-enhanced  lesions  was  scored.  With  respect  to  the  volume  to  T2  lesions,  the  actual  and 
percentage  change  from  baseline  in  volume  of  T2  lesions  did  not  differ  between  the  two  treatment 
groups. 
NMR-Gladolinium enhanced lesions 
PLACEBO 
INFβ-1A  
COMMENTS  
Baseline 
n=143 
n=158 
0 lesions 
1 lesions 
2 lesions 
3 lesions 
≥4 lesions 
46% 
20% 
 8% 
 8% 
18% 
48% 
14% 
10% 
 9% 
20% 
p=0.821 Mann-Withney rank sum test 
In 11 and 14 cases respectively , NMR not 
available 
After one year 
n=123 
n=134 
Overall, p=0.024 Mann-Withney rank sum 
test 
0 lesions 
1 lesions 
2 lesions 
3 lesions 
≥4 lesions 
After two years 
0 lesions 
1 lesions 
2 lesions 
3 lesions 
≥4 lesions 
58% 
14% 
10% 
 7% 
11% 
n=82 
57% 
15% 
15% 
 2% 
11% 
70% 
13% 
 7% 
 3% 
 7% 
n=83 
71% 
13% 
 7% 
 2% 
 6% 
In 9 and 16 cases respectively , NMR not 
available 
Overall p=0.051 Mann-Withney rank sum 
test 
In 5 and 2 cases respectively, NMR not 
available 
There  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  treatments  in  both  number  (p=0.024)  and 
volume (p=0.020)  of  Gadolinium-enhanced lesions favourable to  interferon  beta-1a in the first year. 
The difference was found to be less consistent in the second year; p=0.051 and 0.032 respectively for 
number and volume. 
Lower extremity function 
This was measured by the Ambulation index, Timed Tandem gait and best 25-foot walk. 
For  the  best  25-foot  walk,  31  out  of  143  patients  in  the  placebo  group  had  a  sustained  progression 
versus 14 out of 158 in the IFNß-1a group. This difference was statistically significant p<0.002. There 
were no differences in time to first worsening in the best 25-foot walk between the two groups. There 
8/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  no  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  time  to  first  worsening  or  time  to  sustained 
progression with respect to the Ambulation index and Timed Tandem Gait. 
Neuropsychological tests  
No significant treatment effect was found.  
The  incidence  of  depressive  symptoms,  scored  on  the  Beck  Depression  Inventory,  did  not  differ 
between the two groups. 
Clinical Safety 
In  the  integrated  safety  analysis,  four  patient  populations  were  distinguished:  1)  MS-patients 
population involving 301 subjects of which 143 were receiving placebo and 158 IFN beta-1a 6 MIU 
weekly  for  2  years.  2)  Short-term  dosing  studies  population.  The  patients  involved  received  IFN 
beta-1a for less than 6 weeks of treatment. This population incorporated 42 patients treated with IFN 
beta-1a  for  cervical  dysplasia  and  17  patients  treated  for  basal  cell  carcinoma.  3)  Long-term  dosing 
studies  population,  incorporating  234  patients  treated  with  INF  beta-1a  for  hepatitis  B  or  C  and  12 
patients  treated  with  IFN  beta-1a  for  warts.  4)  Overall  population  incorporating  all  patients  treated 
with INF beta-1a. 
The overall safety analysis of IFN beta-1a was heavily based upon the safety in the multiple sclerosis 
study. 
The most commonly observed treatment-related effects 
Treatment related events 
Placebo 
129 
n 
INFβ-1a 
153 
Flu-like symptoms 
Headache 
Muscle ache 
Nausea 
Chills 
Fever 
Asthenia 
Dyspepsia 
Back pain 
Rash 
Edema 
33% 
40% 
12% 
17% 
6% 
9% 
8% 
3% 
10% 
9% 
8% 
54% 
51% 
32% 
25% 
21% 
18% 
16% 
9% 
5% 
3% 
3% 
The incidence rates of flu-like symptoms diminished in time. 
Risk of infection 
Positive clues for a causal relationship between infection and IFN beta-1a were not found. 
Depression/suicide 
In the multiple sclerosis groups, the incidence rate of depressive symptoms was not different between 
the placebo and IFN beta-1a group. Suicidal tendency was more frequent in the IFN beta-1a group as 
compared  to  the  placebo  but  the  numbers  of  subjects  is  too  small  to  conclude  that  IFN  beta-1a  is 
associated with a suicidal tendency. 
Interactions 
The  company  tried  to  analyse  the  occurrence  of  possible  interactions  of  IFN  beta-1a  with  ACTH, 
steroids and antidepressants. The data available did not allow the linkage of the onset of event to the 
initiation  of  the  second  drug  (ACTH/steroids  or  antidepressants).  Therefore  the  analysis  was 
inconclusive. 
9/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal effects 
There is no indication that IFN beta-1a discontinuation led to a deterioration of multiple sclerosis but 
this was not studied systematically. 
After  two  years  in  study,  around  24%  of  the  patients  in  the  IFN  beta-1a  treatment  group  developed 
positive anti-IFN beta-1a serum-neutralising activity. 
The development of neutralising activity was not associated (on the basis of the data commented upon 
so far) with  an increased  risk  of  disease progression. However, in the  post-treatment  period, a trend 
towards  a  higher  exacerbation  rate  was  seen  among  IFN  beta-1a  treated  patients  with  positive 
on-treatment serum neutralising activity as compared to those without such activity. Also, compared to 
IFN  beta-1a-treated  patients  without  neutralising  activity,  patients  with  neutralising  activity  had 
significantly  greater  increases  in  T2  lesion  volume  and  tended  to  have  higher  numbers  of 
Gadolinium-enhancing lesions on the brain MRI. With respect to disability progression, exacerbation 
rate and MRI outcomes measures, the results among IFN beta-1a treated patients were at no point in 
time worse than those seen in placebo-treated patients. Whether disease progression and occurrence of 
serious  adverse  events  differ  between  patients  developing  neutralising  activity  or  not  could  not  be 
assessed due to the lack of data. 
Further data on safety 
The company submitted a Safety Update in October 1996 in relation to the requests made to them after 
the  hearing  of  May  1996.  This  Safety  Update  refers  to  the  US  post-marketing  surveillance  data 
(covering  just  the  initial  3  months  after  marketing  and  safety  data  from  the  study  used  in  order  to 
generate  the  antigenicity  data  discussed  above).  On  the  whole,  they  give  some  assurance  that,  as 
expected, the safety profile of AVONEX does not differ from that of BG 9015 and what is known for 
interferons in general. 
Antigenicity of AVONEX 
The  issue  of  antigenicity  raised  objections  by  the  CPMP,  in  particular  as  most  of  the  data  initially 
available  referred  to  BG  9015  and  the  antigenicity  of  BG  9015  and  BG  9418  (the  substance  to  be 
marketed  as  AVONEX)  could  not  be  considered  equivalent.  As  a  consequence,  further  data  were 
asked  from  the  company  (hearing  of  May  ‘96).  Their  answers  included  reanalyses  of  the  phase  III 
clinical trial  (conducted  with BG  9015) and  new  data from an on-going open-label  study (C94-801) 
conducted with AVONEX: 
• 
• 
The relevance of the antibodies for the therapeutic response is re-addressed by the company. 
The data from the phase III trial with BG 9015 are reanalysed using a “new” assay in which a 
distinction  is  made  between  total  (i.e.  binding)  antibodies  and  neutralising  activity.  There 
appears  to  be  a  trend  towards  similarity  with  placebo  (lack  of  clinical  efficacy)  especially  in 
those patients with high (=2 0) neutralising activity titres (around 22% after 2 years). This might 
not  be  the  case  for  patients  with  binding  antibodies  of  lower  titres  of  neutralising  activity  but 
from the current data it is not possible to state a cut-off level. Although for the time being only a 
trend can be observed, the possibility that high titres of neutralising activity interfere with the 
therapeutic effects is logical enough and must be considered by the prescriber. 
Concerning AVONEX itself, the data submitted (up to 12 months) shows a lower incidence of 
neutralising  activity  than  for  BG  9015.  At  12  months,  about  1  in  3  patients  with  (binding) 
antibodies have titres = 20 of neutralising activity. It is not known how many more patients with 
antibodies will develop relevant levels  of neutralising activity on  continuation  of treatment. If 
all  patients  with  antibodies  did  eventually  develop  them,  the  percentage  could  in  theory 
approach  15%  (6-30%;  95%  confidence  interval);  i.e  the  apparent  percentage  of  patients  with 
binding  antibodies  at  plateau.  The  problem  of  long-term  treatment  of  multiple  sclerosis  with 
beta interferons in the face of the development of neutralising activity in a subset of patients is 
at present a matter of debate and does not specifically apply to AVONEX. 
10/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Overall Conclusion and Benefit Risk assessment 
One of the major issues concerning the initial assessment of the dossier of AVONEX was that in the 
development of the  medicinal product the active substance used in the clinical trials (BG 9015) was 
not  identical  to the one  contained  in the  medicinal  product intended for  marketing  (BG  9418).  Both 
molecules are secreted from the same Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) host cell line; however, the cell 
culture process and the purification scheme used in the preparation of BG 9418 and BG 9015 are not 
strictly identical. This raised questions about the results obtained in the various studies and trials. In 
absence  of  regulatory  guidelines  addressing  the  issue  of  the  bioequivalence  of  medicinal  products 
derived by r-DNA technology and in absence of a clear-cut knowledge of the mechanism of action of 
interferons in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, the Applicant carried out an in-depth structural and 
functional comparison of the two interferons beta-1a (BG 9015 vs BG 9418). From the data submitted, 
the CPMP considered that the two molecules were comparable concerning both structure and function. 
On this basis the efficacy data obtained with BG 9015 were considered to be applicable to BG 9418. 
The applicant provided additional data on the antigenicity of AVONEX. The data on the antigenicity 
of  AVONEX  covered  at  least  12  months  exposure  so  that  they  could  be  referred  to  the  “plateau” 
phase.  
Reanalysis of the phase III trial samples was performed using two different tests, a classical ELISA 
test to detect the frequency and the titres of anti-interferon beta-1a binding antibodies, and an in-house 
developed  combined  test  ELISA+  Cytopathic  Effect  assays  to  determine  frequency  and  titres  of 
neutralising antibodies. 
The results showed that AVONEX is no more antigenic than BG 9015, the interferon beta-1a used in 
the phase III clinical trial. 
Whether the one single pivotal study submitted provided enough evidence for the efficacy and safety 
of  IFN  beta-1a  was  discussed  thoroughly,  especially  because  concerns  were  raised  on  the  early 
termination of the trial. It was considered that the early termination of the trial was correct in the light 
of the study design in which, a priori, the provision of a possible termination of the study was set up 
once  the  clinical  endpoint  was  reached.  The  Applicant  also  satisfactorily  resolved  some  apparent 
internal inconsistencies. The results provided were considered robust enough to support the efficacy of 
AVONEX in slowing the progression of disability and in decreasing the frequency of relapses over a 
2-year period. 
However,  additional  data  were  required  by  the  CPMP  as  specific  obligations  to  be  fulfilled  by  the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder in order to obtain comprehensive information on the long-term use of 
the substance. 
In  the  margins  of  the  scientific  discussions  it  was  agreed  that  the  tradename  AVONEX  is  not  an 
outstanding  issue,  provided  that  the  pharmaceutical  form  of  AVONEX  (powder  and  solvent  for 
solution for injection) and Daivonex (ointment) remain unchanged. 
After  detailed  discussion  on  the  text  of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  of  the  Package 
User Leaflet and label, the CPMP, on 20 November 1996, adopted unanimously a favourable opinion 
for  granting  AVONEX  a  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances.  All  new 
information  that  will  be  submitted  will  be  carefully  scrutinised  and  form  the  basis  of  the  annual 
risk/benefit assessment of the medicinal product. 
From the clinical information accrued post authorisation the CPMP concluded that the efficacy of the 
drug is unchanged. 
The safety profile has been evaluated since commercialisation and new information has been provided 
on the occurrence of neutralizing antibodies and on the adverse reactions collected. 
The CPMP after the annual re-assessments of AVONEX based on new information and results of the 
specific  obligations  and  follow  up  measures  concluded  that  the  risk/benefit  evaluation  remains  in 
favour  of  the  drug.  As  some  specific  obligations/follow-up  measures  have  still  to  be  fulfilled,  the 
product should continue to be authorised under exceptional circumstances and re-evaluated in a year’s 
time. 
11/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Clinical efficacy and safety data submitted post-authorisation 
At the request of the  CPMP the applicant provided additional data on the antigenicity of AVONEX. 
Analysis was carried out by an in-house developed two-step assay system. An ELISA test is used to 
identify  patients  who  have  formed  antibodies  to  IFN-beta.  .  Samples  testing  positive  are  tested  in  a 
Cytopathic Effect assay for activity that neutralises the in vivo biological activity of IFN-beta. In this 
way, the frequency and titers of neutralising antibodies is being determined. 
6. 1. 
Study C94-801: An ongoing, open label study in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). 
Three hundred and eighty two (382) patients have been enrolled into this study.  The dosing regimen 
is  30  µg,  intramuscularly  (per  week)  for  up  to  4  years.  Patients  are  to  be  followed  for  safety  and 
antibody  formation.  The  safety  and  antibody  data  are  monitored  continuously,  but  are  also  formally 
analysed  and  discussed  in  interim  safety  reports  on  an  annual  basis.  An  analysis  of  the  effects  of 
neutralising antibodies on the pharmacodynamic response to AVONEX was therefore submitted with 
the safety report in September 1997.  
After  the  discussion  of  the  new  data,  the  CPMP  considered  that  an  incidence  of  antibodies  of  8% 
could  be  quoted  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  This  new  information  on  antigenicity  
originated a type II variation to revise the SPC, section 4.4 Special Warnings and Special Precautions 
for  Use  accordingly.  A  CPMP  positive  opinion  was  adopted  on  22  April  1998  and  the  Commission 
Decision amending the Marketing Authorisation was adopted on 17 August 1998. 
Study C94-805: double blind, randomised dose comparison (30 µg vs 60 µg). 
6. 2 
Patients with relapsing remitting MS or relapsing progressive MS were randomised to receive 30 µg 
(n=402) or 60 µg (n=400) once a week during three years. The primary endpoint was the increase in 
the time to reach a sustained progression of disability (one point increase in EDSS maintained for 6 
months) and secondary endpoints were measures of MRI at one, two and three years of follow up, nine 
hole peg test, QoL and IV steroid use as a surrogate for relapses. Relapses were not even considered as 
a  secondary  endpoint.  To  maintain  the  blinding  in  spite  the  adverse  effects  of  Avonex,  different 
physicians  were  responsible  for  evaluating  the  EDSS  (examining  physician)  and  for  patient 
management including adverse reactions and relapses assessment and treatment (treating physician). 
The  included  population  had  a  mean  duration  of  disease  of  6.5  years  and  a  mean  EDSS  score  at 
baseline of 3.6 in both treatment groups, with a 42% of subjects with an EDSS score of 4.0 or above 
(42%  vs  43%).    70%  of  included  patients  remained  on  study  drug  for  at  least  3  years  and  no 
differences  are  seen  between  both  groups  in  relation  to  discontinuations.  85%  of  included  patients 
were relapsing remitting and 15 % were relapsing progressive.  
No  differences  in  efficacy  are  seen  between  30  µg  or  60  µg  of  AVONEX  given  once  a  week 
intramuscularly.  It  is  difficult  to  ensure  the  sensitivity  of  the  performed  trial  to  detect  existing 
differences in efficacy due to the characteristics of the disease, the ranges where the magnitude of the 
efficacy lies and the lack of sensitivity of the EDSS scale.  
No relevant differences in clinical safety are shown between both doses although a higher incidence of 
flu-like syndrome appears with the higher dose. 
Thus the specific obligation related to the performance of the trial exploring a 60µg dose is considered 
to be fulfilled.  
This new information obtained after the dose comparison Study C94-805 required a type II variation 
to  revise  the  SPC,  section  4.2  and  5.1.  The  proposal  of  the  MAH  to  insert  the  sentence  “and  no 
additional benefit has been shown by administering a higher dose (60 µg) once a week and remove the 
sentence: “However, the optimal dose of interferon beta 1a in MS may not have been established.” in 
12/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2 was considered to be acceptable by the CPMP. A CPMP positive opinion was adopted on 26 July 
2001. 
6. 3  Extension of the indication on the basis of the clinical trial C95-812 (CHAMPS) 
The  MAH  applied  for  a  type  II  variation  to  extend  the  indication  by  proposing  the  following 
statement:  “In  those  patients  characterised  by  one  demyelinating  event  accompanied  by  MRI 
abnormalities, AVONEX reduces the risk of relapse”. This application for extension of the indication 
was based on the results of study C95-812 (CHAMPS) which was planned at the time of approval and 
was considered as a specific obligation of the MAH in order to confirm efficacy.  
CHAMPS  trial  was  a  randomised  double-blind  placebo  controlled  clinical  trial  with  383  patients 
(AVONEX  n=  193,  placebo  n=190)  designed  to  determine  whether  a  weekly  im  dose  of  30  mcg  of 
AVONEX  reduces  the  risk  of  developing  clinically  definite  multiple  sclerosis  (CDMS)  in  patients 
after  a  first  demyelinating  event  (optic  neuritis,  brainstem/cerebellar  syndrome  or  spinal  cord 
syndrome) associated with at least two compatible brain MRI lesions.  
The primary endpoint was the time to development of CDMS, defined by the occurrence of a second 
demyelinating  event  or  progression  of  the  initial  disease  or  disability  worsening  of  1.5  points  in  the 
EDSS scale. Secondary endpoints were predefined MRI data at specified times.  
An  interim  efficacy  analysis  was  planned  to  occur  2  years  after  the  enrollment  of  the  last  subject. 
Because of the number of patients having developed CDMS earlier than expected, the interim analysis 
was performed 6 months earlier than scheduled, with 18 months follow up of all subjects still on trial. 
After  this  interim  analysis,  the  study  was  interrupted  because  of  positive  results  according  to  the 
predefined stopping rule. 
The diagnosis of CDMS was the result of a second demyelinating event in all but five patients. One 
patient  in  each  group  presented  progressive  neurologic  worsening  over  the  first  two  months  and  3 
patients  (one  AVONEX  and  two  placebo)  developed  CDMS  because  of  progressive  neurologic 
disability without acute exacerbation. The magnitude of the reduction of the risk of developing CDMS 
was  44%  which  gives  the  estimate  of  7  patients  to  be  treated  to  avoid  the  occurrence  (within  the 
studied period of time) of a second event. AVONEX treated patients showed less disease activity (as 
measured by GD enhancement) and less lesion burden (as measured by T2) at all time points. 
Kaplan-Meier Plots of the Probability 
of CDMS over 3 year period
Risk Ratio = 0.56
p =  0.002
Placebo
AVONEX®
S
M
D
C
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.0
1
4
7
10
13
19 22
16
Study Month
25
28 31 34
Number of Patients at Risk
AVONEX®
Placebo
193 177 164 151 143 139 112 112 73
90 58
190 165 146 139 131 124
98
69
54
41 36
26 25
13/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The estimated risk of a second event was 39% in 2 years and 50% in 3 years in the placebo group and 
21% (2 years) 35% (3 years) in the Avonex group.  
The incidence of neutralizing antibodies (NABs) over 3 years was low, with less than 2%. As NABs 
are known to reach a plateau at approximately 1 year after initiating therapy, it is likely that the long-
term impact of NABs on Avonex efficacy will be very small. 
CHAMPS were a well-designed, well-conducted, generally consistent study. It showed that AVONEX 
delayed the development to CDMS of patients at risk of developing the disease after having suffered a 
well-defined  first  clinical  demyelinating  event  associated  with  at  least  two  compatible  brain  MRI 
lesions although their long-term outcome is not studied. However, it was unclear whether the evidence 
provided by study was sufficient to grant the extension of the indication. 
No  new  safety  concern  has  been  identified  from  this  study.  However,  since  the  patients  included  in 
CHAMPS study were less severely ill than those currently treated with Avonex it does not necessarily 
follow that the same level of risk is acceptable in both groups. 
Issues related to the clinical impact of the early treatment, long term benefit, treatment of patients vs. 
the safety profile  of the  product,  validity of MRI  parameters as surrogate and  the identification  of  a 
population  that  would  benefit  of  the  early  treatment,  were  discussed  with  the  MAH  during  an  oral 
presentation. 
The  MAH  was  requested  by  the  CPMP  to  identify  a  subgroup  of  patients  likely  to  have  an 
unfavourable course of their disease as well as an acceptable response to the drug so as to avoid the 
early “blind” treatment of all patients with a single episode, which would appear unjustified. This was 
done by the MAH considering the 2-year risk rather than the 3-year risk due to the scarcity of patients 
beyond  2  years  of  follow-up.  The  subpopulation  proposed  included  those  patients  having  at  least  1 
Gd-enhancing  lesion  and  9  T2  lesions  OR  at  least  2  Gd-enhancing  lesions  and  3  T2  lesions  at 
baseline.  In  the  corresponding  cohort,  which  represents  65  of  the  383  (17%)  subjects  enrolled  in 
CHAMPS, the 2-year risk of developing CDMS is 66% and the treatment effect is 75% (p = 0.00028) 
i.e. the relative risk of Avonex vs placebo is 0.25. 
These  criteria  identified  patients  with  important  predictors  of  high  inflammatory  activity  that  could 
benefit  from  Avonex  treatment  more  than  other  patients  within  the  whole  CHAMPS  cohort.  This  is 
consistent with the current belief that it is precisely the inflammatory component of MS the one that 
fundamentally responds to beta interferons. It can be very prominent in initial phases of the disease. 
The criteria used to define the high-risk high-benefit subgroup are plausible and consistent also with 
available data on the natural history of the disease. The identified cohort is in line with that of Barkhof 
et al2. in a study of 74 patients who were followed up for a median time of 39 months after a single 
demyelinating  event.  The  authors  concluded  that  the  following  MRI  characteristics  identified  the 
patient  with  the  highest  risk  of  developing  CDMS:  9  T2  lesions,  1  Gd-enhancing  lesion,  3 
periventricular lesions, 1 juxtacortical lesion. They also concluded that the number of Gd-enhancing 
lesions  was  the  single  best  predictor  of  the  risk  of  developing  CDMS.  Although  the  number  of 
periventricular  lesions  and  the  number  of  juxtacortical  lesions  were  not  counted  as  part  of  the 
CHAMPS study, the inclusion criteria did require that at least 2 of the T2 lesions must be at least 3 
mm in size and that one of the T2 lesion must be periventricular or ovoid. 
The  data  from  the  CHAMPS  study  were  presented  at  the  ad-hoc  experts  group  meeting  on  clinical 
efficacy  of  beta  interferons  in  MS  treatment  and  reanalysed  in  the  light  of  recent  publications.3  4. 
These indicate that disease activity as measured by MRI (number of Gd enhancing and T2 lesions) is 
an important co-variate both for prognosis and treatment effect. The reliability of the diagnosis of MS, 
2 Comparison of MRI criteria at first presentation to predict conversion to clinically definite multiple sclerosis: F. Barkhof et 
al; Brain (1997) 120, 2059-2069. 
3 Guidelines from the International Panel on the Diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis” Article from Annals of Neurology, April 
2001 McDonald et al 
4Effect of early interferon treatment on conversion to definite multiple sclerosis: a randomised study”- G. Comi et al, -Lancet 
Vol 357, no 9268, 19 May 2001 
14/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
was  acknowledged  as  having  improved  with  the  new  McDonald  criteria  (incorporating  MRI  criteria 
related to time and space dissemination) so that the possibility of misdiagnosis appears now low even 
at early stages of the disease. Based on clinical judgement patients could be considered at “high risk” 
of disease activity, e.g. if the first attack was associated with high MRI activity, confirmed at least 3 
months later.  
The clinical relevance of these data has been extensively discussed. There was agreement on the view 
that treatment should not be initiated as a rule after the first clinical attack of demyelinisation 
considering the unknown clinical evolution of the disease versus the adverse event profile of the drug. 
It was stated that inclusion of the predetermined “high risk” patients should not be accepted as even in 
case of a subsequent relapse, one might still consider treatment with interferon beta without loss of 
overall benefit.  
A minority view was that, in clinical practice, one would probably treat a few patients early if, on a 
case by case basis clinical judgement, they could consider them to be at high risk of disease activity, 
e.g if the first attack was associated with high MRI activity, confirmed at least 3 months later. Based 
on  study  data,  2  or  more  Gd  enhancing  lesions  at  baseline  were  apparently  predictive  of  a  clinical 
relapse within 2-3 years in about 70% of the patients, i.e. 70 % of these patients will later qualify for 
treatment according to the present indication. If, in addition, a new MRI after three  months or more 
shows  ongoing  activity,  the  new  McDonald  criteria  for  diagnosis  of  MS  would  be  fulfilled.  If 
furthermore only patients with at least 2 new Gd enhancing lesions were considered for therapy, the 
likelihood of treating patients with too low MS activity would be minimised. The CHAMPS study was 
not  designed  to  support  this  post  hoc  interpretation  but  its  results  are  compatible  with  it.  A  clinical 
rationale  for  early  treatment  would  be  that  inactivity  of  the  disease  in  terms  of  motor  or  sensory 
symptoms  is  compatible  with  disease  activity  in  areas  of  the  brain  related  to  other  functions,  for 
example,  cognitive  deterioration,  which  may  be  a  problem  in  patients  with  MS.  MRI  therefore 
provides valuable complementary information on disease activity.  
Since an extension of the indication in an early stage of the disease was sought, the benefit – risk ratio 
was reconsidered. The CPMP concluded that the adverse events of the drug profile versus the limited 
predictive value of the data was not acceptable for the entire patient population as initially claimed in 
the proposed indication: “In those patients characterised by one demyelinating event accompanied by 
MRI  abnormalities,  AVONEX  reduces  the  risk  of  relapse”was  considered  to  be  unfavourable.  The 
CPMP at the meeting on 26 July 2001 recommended the refusal of the variation for the indication as 
applied on the following grounds: 
- 
The clinical relevance of the findings of the study C95-812 (CHAMPS) is unclear. 
Even if the second episode is delayed, it cannot be theoretically excluded that there might be a 
catch  up  later  during  treatment  and  there  is  no  real  reduction  in  the  long-term  frequency  of 
exacerbations as well in disability progression. 
The benefit risk balance was not found to be positive, considering both the direct side effects of 
interferon  therapy  and  the  consequences  on  quality  of  life  of  initiating  long-term  therapy  in 
individuals with ill defined prognosis with respect to disease activity in an overall chronic and 
slowly progressive disease. 
- 
Definition of a high risk patients and restriction of the indication  
The  MAH  appealed  to  the  CPMP  opinion  by  providing  responses  to  the  CPMP  objections  and 
proposing  a  restricted  indication.  The  definition  of  high  risk  of  relapse  patients  following  a  first 
demyelinating event i.e. patients with high disease activity was based on both clinical and MRI criteria 
in the light of the recent publication by Brex et al 5 The final subset was identified as: Patients with at 
least 9 T2 hyperintense lesions AND at least one Gd-enhancing lesion. The prevalence in the placebo 
arm of the CHAMPS study was 21%. The 2-year risk of developing CDMS (Kaplan Meier estimate) is 
0.56 with a sensitivity of 33% and a specificity of 83%.  
5 Brex & al. Assessing the risk of early multiple sclerosis in patients with clinically isolated 
syndromes: the role of a follow up MRI. J  Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry (2001) 70:390-393 
15/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Following a post-hoc analysis of the CHAMPS trial, those patients with a baseline MRI with at least 1 
Gd-enhancing  lesion  and  9  T2  lesions  had  a  2-year  risk  of  suffering  a  second  event  of  56%  in  the 
placebo group and 21% in the AVONEX treatment group.  
Therefore,  in  this  high-risk  population,  the  CPMP  agreed  that  there  is  enough  evidence  of  efficacy 
derived  from  the  CHAMPS  study  on  the  chosen  endpoints.  The  full  relevance  of  such  endpoints 
remains debatable as any evidence of long-term effects on progression of disability is still lacking.  
The treatment effect of Avonex in the subgroup of CHAMPS patients with
≥ 9 T2 lesions and ≥ 1 Gd-enhancing lesion at baseline
Risk Ratio = 0.34 
S
M
D
C
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
  0.8
  0.7
  0.6
  0.5
  0.4
  0.3
  0.2
  0.1
  0.0
1
4
7
10
13
16
22
19
Study Month
25
28
31
34
37
40
Number of Patients at Risk
_______________________________________________________________________________________
Avonex®
51
Placebo 40
28
12
16
6
16
6
38
20
41
26
47
31
28
15
40
24
44
28
9
3
7
3
Discussion  of the relevance of  a restricted  extension  of  indication  was  further debated at the CPMP 
level.  For  the  time  being  there  is  no  well-established  definition  of  a  high-risk  patients.  A  more 
conservative approach is to accept at least 9 T2 hyperintense lesions on the initial scan and at least 1 
new  T2  or  1  new  Gd-enhancing  lesion  on  a  follow-up  scan  taken  at  least  3  months  after  the  initial 
scan. In any case treatment should only be considered for patients classified at high risk. 
The long-term impact of early treatment with Avonex is unknown even in this high-risk subgroup as 
the  study  was  mainly  designed  to  assess  the  time  to  the  second  event  rather  than  the  long-term 
evolution of the disease. The MAH presented data to support the fact that patients at the initial clinical 
stage  of  the  disease  already  exhibit  evidence  of  irreversible  CNS  damage  including  axonal  loss  and 
brain atrophy that may impact the long term course of the disease and lead to irreversible disability if 
they are not prevented sufficiently early. 
Furthermore,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  a  long-term  follow-up  of  the  patients  entered  in  the 
CHAMPS  study.  This  add-on  study  is  a  follow-up  study  on  the  383  eligible  patients  enrolled  into 
CHAMPS at 50 sites. A 5-year MRI report should be submitted in September 2003 and the final study 
report should be submitted in December 2005. 
Conclusion and benefit- risk assessment 
Divergent  opinions  were  expressed  by  some  CPMP  members  were:  treatment  of  patients  with  one 
demyelinating event should be considered versus the fact that the 50% of placebo treated patients in 
the  CHAMPS  study  did  not  reach  the  MS  diagnosis  in  3  years  of  the  first  event;  the  subgroup  was 
defined retrospectively; the duration  of  the  trial and the trial  design  do not allow  -at the time  of the 
application- a conclusion on the long term outcome of early treatment. 
However,  the  majority  of  the  CPMP  agreed  that  in  this  restricted,  high-risk  population,  there  was 
enough evidence of efficacy derived from the CHAMPS study on the chosen endpoints. In addition, 
16/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the safety profile of Avonex in the CHAMPS population has not been shown to be different compared 
to  more  advanced  patients  in  the  course  of  the  disease.  Therefore,  the  benefit/risk  balance  in  the 
population  of  the  indication:  “treatment  of  patients  who  have  experienced  a  single  demyelinating 
event with an active inflammatory process if it is severe enough to warrant treatment with intravenous 
corticosteroids, if alternative diagnoses have been excluded, and if they are determined to be at high 
risk of developing clinically definite multiple sclerosis” was considered positive by majority decision. 
The results of the post-hoc analysis and subgroup definitions were described in the section 5. 1 of the 
SPC.  
The CPMP also considered the commitment of the MAH to a long-term follow-up of the patients who 
entered CHAMPS study.  
6. 4. 
Postmarketing Safety experience 
According to Commission Regulation (EEC) 2309/93 the Marketing Authorisation Holder submitted 
during the concerned period the requested Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) and Line Listings. 
Based  on  the  analysis  of  the  additional  data  from  ongoing  studies,  post-approval  drug  experience 
reports, Periodic Safety Update Reports (submitted at six month intervals for the first two years and 
annually thereafter, as part of the drug surveillance program to be carried out in line with the existing 
EU legislation), further information has been accrued.  
The SPC and PL texts have been updated and extended following the evaluation of the PSURs. The 
following changes to the SPC and PL were proposed and were issued positive opinions by the CPMP: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Addition  of  the  undesirable  effects  alopecia,  metrorrhagia  and/or  menorrhagia,  syncope, 
transient hypertonia and/or severe muscular weakness that prevents voluntary movements in the 
SPC  (section  4.8)  and  PL  (section  9  ‘Description  of  undesirable  effects  under  normal  use) 
following the 1st PSUR. 
Two  additional  undesirable  effects  congestive  heart  failure  and  arthritis  were  included  in  the 
product literature following the 2nd and the 3rd PSURs. 
The  4th  PSUR  revealed  some  new  adverse  reactions,  including  the  possible  occurrence  of 
cardiomyopathy  and  serious  hypersensitivity  reactions  as  well  as  serious  cases  of 
thrombocytopenia. 
Further  amendments  to  the  SPC  and  PL  were  agreed  by  the  CPMP  following  the  5th  PSUR. 
These  included  the  adverse  reactions:  migraine,  episodes  of  MS  exacerbation’s  linked  to 
injections, vesiculobullous rash, weight loss, LE syndrome and injection site pain. 
 “Anaphylactic  shock”,  “anaphylactic  reactions”  and  “weight  gain”  were  added  in  the  section 
4.8 of the SPC (adverse reactions) following the assessment of the seventh PSUR. 
6. 5.  Renewal of marketing authorisation 
Based  on  the  review  of  the  available  information,  the  CPMP  considered  on  17/01/2002  that  the 
benefit/risk  profile  of  AVONEX  continued  to  be  favourable  in  patients  with  relapsing  multiple 
sclerosis  (MS)  in  the  approved  indications.  Consequently,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  could  be  renewed.  It  was  considered  that  the  Marketing  Authorisation  should 
remain.under  exceptional  circumstances  as  all  clinical  specific  obligations  had  not  been  completely 
fulfilled: an interim report on safety from study C94-801 and the final study report providing safety 
and  antigenicity  data  were  still  due.  At  the  request  of  the  CPMP,  new  adverse  drug  reactions  were 
added in section 4.8 of the SPC following the assessment of the seventh PSUR (see above) and some 
minor  changes  proposed  by  the  MAH  to  bring  the  product  information  in  line  with  the  latest  QRD 
Product Information template (Version 5.2-04/2001) were accepted.  
17/17 
                 EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
