15 December 2022 
EMA/23616/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Avonex  
International non-proprietary name: interferon beta-1A 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000102/II/0193 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 3 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 6 
4. EPAR changes .......................................................................................... 7 
5. Introduction ............................................................................................ 8 
6. Clinical aspects ........................................................................................ 9 
6.1. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 109MS306 Part 1 ...... 9 
6.2. Clinical Pharmacology ........................................................................................... 9 
6.3. Clinical Efficacy aspects ......................................................................................... 9 
6.4. Clinical Safety aspects ........................................................................................ 10 
6.4.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted & results ................................................... 10 
6.5. Discussion ......................................................................................................... 18 
7. PRAC advice .......................................................................................... 19 
8. Changes to the Product Information...................................................... 19 
9. Attachments .......................................................................................... 21 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 2/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Biogen Netherlands B.V. submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 25 March 2022 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Update  of  sections  4.2  and  4.8  of  the  SmPC  in  order  to  update  safety  information  for  the  paediatric 
population based on the final results of the Tecfidera Paediatric study (109MS306) (CONNECT - part 1) 
that  uses  Avonex  as  an  active  comparator  arm,  availability  of  data  from  published  literature  and 
postmarketing data form Biogen global safety database; the Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Study 109MS306 was conducted to meet Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) requirements for Tecfidera 
(Dimethyl fumarate). Study 109MS306 was already submitted for Tecfidera and has been evaluated for 
inclusion of relevant data into the Tecfidera product information. The submission of the CSR for Avonex 
in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  Article  46  of  the  Paediatric  Regulation  was  inadvertently 
overlooked. Following identification of the issue the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) sought advice 
from  the  EMA  Product  Lead  and  it  was  agreed  to  submit  the  CSR  for  Avonex  on  the  next  available 
submission date of 08 March 2022. 
Thus, this submission covers both procedures: 
a) A type II variation for Avonex to update the Product Information (PI) with 109MS306 study data  
b) P46-089 - Article 46 submission for CSR of a completed Paediatric study 109MS306 (part 1) 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and 
Package Leaflet (PL). 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The MAH has requested a type II variation to update sections 4.2 and 4.8 of the SmPC to amend existing 
safety information of Avonex in paediatric population, following completion of Tecfidera Paediatric Study 
109MS306 (CONNECT- part 1), that uses Avonex as an active comparator arm, available of data from 
published literature and postmarketing data from Biogen global safety database. Consequential changes 
to the PL are also proposed.  
There is no specific discussion on the efficacy of Avonex in this population. The MAH states in the Clinical 
Overview  addendum  that  the  benefit  of  Avonex  in  the  paediatric  population  remains  undefined  and 
therefore, Avonex should not be used in children without careful evaluation of the benefit-risk ratio.  
No information on clinical pharmacology of Avonex in this population has been provided by the MAH.  
As for safety, the overall safety evaluation plan of Avonex for paediatric patients is summarized from 2 
interventional randomized, controlled trials that use intramuscular Avonex as an active comparator arm 
(Study 109MS306 [CONNECT] and PARADIGMS); 4 published literature observational trials in paediatric 
MS participants using Avonex and postmarketing data from the Biogen Global Safety Data.  
Regarding CONNECT study, the most frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) 
(≥ 10% of participants) in the Avonex group that the Investigator considered related to study treatment 
were  influenza  like  illness  (50%),  headache  (25%),  and  pyrexia  (17%).  There  were  25  treatment-
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 3/21 
 
 
 
 
emergent serious adverse events (SAEs) in the Avonex group, including multiple sclerosis (MS) relapse 
(25%); and anemia, groin pain, hepatocellular injury, hypertension, influenza like illness, paraesthesia, 
and relapsing MS (1% each). Only SAE of influenza like illness was considered related to study treatment 
by the Investigator. The MAH was requested to provide more information about the cases of anaemia 
and hepatocellular injury and satisfactory responses were received. The case of anaemia is confounded 
by plasmapheresis and therefore it is difficult to establish a causal relationship with Avonex. The case of 
hepatocellular injury seems to be an autoimmune hepatitis that is already listed in the SmPC of Avonex. 
A  total  of  13  participants  (9%)  had  a  TEAE  leading  to  discontinuation  of  study  treatment  (Avonex,  8 
participants [11%]; Tecfidera, 5 participants [6%]). There were 10 TEAEs in the Avonex group that led 
to  study  treatment  discontinuation,  including  MS  relapse  and  altered  mood,  asthenia,  headache, 
hepatocellular injury, influenza like illness, tremor, and vomiting. Overall, there were no trends in mean 
change from baseline clinical laboratory values and vital sign values with the exception of high pulse rate 
(Avonex, 24%; Tecfidera, 31%). 
PARADIGMS  was  a  2-year,  double-blind,  randomized,  active-control  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
efficacy  of  fingolimod  administered  once  daily  as  compared  with  Avonex  (active  comparator)  once 
weekly. The trial period lasted up to 24 months. A total of 215 participants were included in the study 
(Avonex,  108  participants;  fingolimod,  107  participants).  In  the  Avonex  group,  the  most  frequently 
reported AEs (≥ 20.0%) were influenza like illness (37.4%), headache (29.9%), viral upper respiratory 
tract infection (24.3%), and pyrexia (20.6%). A total of 7 participants (6.5%) in the Avonex group had 
at least 1 SAE. A discrepancy regarding the case of supraventricular tachycardia was requested to the 
MAH that was clarified by the MAH.  
Regarding the observational studies, as the company stated that there are methodological differences in 
the study designs of these interventional and observational studies, no formal statistical comparison of 
results in paediatric subjects was performed across the studies and therefore had a limited value.  
In the observational short-term safety trial [Basiri K 2012], a total of 13 participants younger than 16 
years of age who were recently diagnosed with RRMS were enrolled in the study. Six participants were 
treated with Avonex 30 μg IM once weekly, and 7 participants were treated with Betaferon 250 μg SC 
every other day.  
The long-term results trial of immunomodulatory treatment of children and adolescents in Italy [Ghezzi 
2009] comprised 130 participants (Avonex, 77; Rebif 22 μg/Betaferon, 39; Copaxone, 14).  
The  population  of  the  long-term  safety  trial  with  Avonex  30  mg  IM  [Ghezzi  2007]  comprised  52 
participants with symptom onset at an average age of 11.7 ± 2.7 years. In 6 participants, treatment 
was  interrupted  (2  participants  for  lack  of  compliance,  1  participant  for  persistent  leukopenia,  1 
participant for ineffectiveness, 2 participants for other reasons).  
Finally, the case series of IFN-β treatment [Mikaeloff 2001] included a total of 16 participants (14 females 
and 2 males) with a median age of 15.5 years. Two females had an autoimmune disorder of either type 
1 diabetes or thyroiditis before starting treatment.  
Clinical laboratory abnormalities observed in ≥ 2 studies were abnormal thyroid function and elevated 
liver  enzymes.  Most  of  these  events  were  transient.  No  deaths  or  SAEs  were  reported  across  these 
studies.  
When considering the post-marketing information, the estimated exposure in adults is based on Avonex 
market  data  available  through  30  Mar  2021.  Cumulative  global  patient  exposure  to  Avonex  is 
approximately  600,985  patients,  representing  approximately  2,752,261  patient-years.  The  most 
frequently reported SAEs (> 4) in paediatric patients from the same GSD search were MS relapse (n = 
216),  MS  (n  =  27),  seizure  (n  =  14),  pyrexia  (n  =  11),  optic  neuritis  (n  =  11),  depression  (n  =  9), 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 4/21 
 
 
 
 
hypoaesthesia (n = 9), paraesthesia (n = 6), encephalomyelitis (n = 5), generalised tonic-clonic seizure 
(n = 5), pain (n = 5), and vision blurred (n = 5).The proportion of reports of SAEs of optic neuritis and 
vision blurred was higher for paediatric MS patients than for adult MS patients, but this statement was 
based on absolute numbers and not in frequencies.  
Considering the above mentioned information that was provided by the MAH, the CHMP considered that 
there was not enough data to ensure that safety data for the paediatric population is consistent to what 
seen in adults, especially considering that one of the main supporting data is based on the information 
of Tecfidera, which has recently updated the SmPC with a list of AEs that seem to be more common in 
the  paediatric  population  (headache,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  respiratory,  thoracic  and  mediastinal 
disorders; and dysmenorrhea). In response to the first request for supplementary information, the MAH 
provided a discussion of the adverse events (AEs) reported in >10% of patients in the Avonex arm in 
the  CONNECT  and  PARADIGM  studies,  as  well  as  a  comparison  with  the  frequency  of  this  AE  in  the 
information already included in the SmPC of Avonex. Although most of the AE from these studies have 
the same frequency category as described in the SmPC for adults, there were some AEs such as myalgia, 
pain in extremity,  fatigue and  arthralgia  the have  a higher  frequency  in paediatric  population.  Finally 
and according to the EMA Guideline on SmPC, this information has been included in the paediatric sub-
section of section 4.8 and section 4 of the PL, subsection children (10 years and above) and adolescents. 
Avonex  is  not  approved  for  the treatment  of  paediatric  patients  with  MS.  There  have  been  no  formal 
clinical studies to assess the efficacy of interferon beta-1a in this population and the majority of data 
come  from  open-label  observational  or  retrospective  studies.  Despite  limited  published  data,  Avonex 
(and other IFN β agents and glatiramer acetate) is used in paediatric patients with MS according to the 
dosage and administration instructions recommended for adults in the SmPC. 
Three medicinal products have been recently approved for the treatment of RRMS in this population:  
•  Gilenya (fingolimod) is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis for the following groups of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 
10 years and older:  
o  patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with 
at least one disease modifying therapy (for exceptions and information about washout 
periods see Sections 4.4 and 5.1)  
or 
o  patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 
or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions 
on  brain  MRI  or  a  significant  increase  in  T2  lesion  load  as  compared  with  a  previous 
recent MRI. 
•  Aubagio (teriflunomide) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients and paediatric patients 
aged 10 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis  
• 
Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate, DMF) is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients 
aged 13 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Of  note,  the  main  clinical  trials  conducted  with  fingolimod  (study  PARADIGMS)  and  DMF  (study 
CONNECT)  included  Interferon  beta-1a  IM  (Avonex  30  μg  once  weekly)  as  active  comparator. 
Teriflunomide was compared to placebo in the study TERIKIDS. These clinical developments were agreed 
with the PDCO. In the case of DMF, the inclusion of IFN β-1a as control arm was done at request of the 
PDCO based on its consideration as standard of care. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 5/21 
 
 
 
 
The currently marketed formulation of Avonex® (30 micrograms/0.5ml solution for injection in pre-filled 
pen) was used in these paediatric studies, with an acceptable safety profile. As no indication in children 
is foreseen, there is no need for a paediatric specific formulation. 
The  results  of  these  studies  provide  new  evidence  in  the  field  and  may  have  consequences  in  the 
therapeutic  recommendations  and/or  clinical  trial  designs.  However,  treatments  such  as  interferon-  β 
(including  Avonex)  and  glatiramer  acetate  are  still  recommended  as  first-line  therapies  in  the 
consensus/guidelines of reference in the field1,2,3,4,5 and they may remain as suitable for some patients. 
This  accepted  use  of  Avonex appears  not  to  be  in  line  with  the  information  currently  reflected  in  the 
SmPC (Section 4.2), where it is stated that the safety and efficacy of Avonex in adolescents aged 12 to 
16 years have not yet been established and no recommendation on a posology can be made. At request 
during the procedure the MAH provided a discussion on the most recent Avonex® efficacy data available 
from  the  CONNECT  and  PARADIGMS  clinical  trials.  These  data,  although  limited  to  do  a  firm 
recommendation on posology, are considered useful for prescribers. A proposal for the update of section 
5.1 of the SmPc was requested to reflect a summary of these efficacy data and it was provided.   
In light of the above, the MAH is also requested to provide a proposal for the wording in sections 4.8 
and 5.1 reflecting the available information in patients 10 to 18 years of age. The MAH submitted an 
updated PI. Changes has been made to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC and sections 2 and 4 
of the PL. Comments by two member states were received in relation to the wording for sections 4.8 and 
5.1. The SmPC has been adapted accordingly. After this revision, it is considered that the updated PI 
reflects well the available, most useful, safety and efficacy data from clinical trials. The changes are now 
endorsed and the variation is recommended for approval. 
The benefit-risk balance of Avonex, remains unchanged in the currently authorised conditions of use. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
Change(s)  in  the  SPC,  Labelling  or  PL  due  to  new 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Update  of  sections  4,1  4.2,  4.8  and  5.1  of  the  SmPC  in  order  to  update  safety  information  for  the 
paediatric population based on the final results of the Tecfidera Paediatric study (109MS306) (CONNECT 
- part 1), submitted as part of the PAM procedure P46/089, availability of data from published literature 
and postmarketing data form Biogen global safety database; the Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
 is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annex(es) I and IIIB are recommended. 
1 Chitnis T, Tenembaum S, Banwell B, et al. Consensus statement: evaluation of new and existing therapeutics for pediatric 
multiple sclerosis. Mult Scler 2012;18: 116–127. 
2 Waubant E et al.  Neurology 2019;92:e1-e12. doi 
3 Ghezzi A, Amato MP, Makhani N, Shreiner T, Gärtner J, Tenenbaum TS. Pediatric multiple sclerosis: conventional firstline 
treatment and general management. Neurology 2016; 87: Suppl 2: S97-S102. 
4 Yamout B et al. Consensus recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of multiple sclerosis: 2019 revisions to the 
MENACTRIMS guidelines. Multiple Sclerosis and Related Disorders 37 (2020) 101459 
5 Chitnis, T., et al., 2016. Pediatric multiple sclerosis: escalation and emerging treatments.Neurology 87 (9 Suppl 2), S103–
S109. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 6/21 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above  
Summary 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion ‘Product Name-H-C-Product Number-II-0193’ 
For more information, please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 7/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex:  Rapporteur’s  assessment  comments  on  the  type  II 
variation 
5.  Introduction 
Background information as submitted by the Applicant 
Multiple Sclerosis in Paediatric Patients  
ms  is  the  most  common  disabling  neurological  disease  of  young  adults  [Browne  2014],  with  onset 
between  20  and  40  years  of  age  in  approximately  70%  of  patients  [Flachenecker  and  Stuke  2008; 
Weinshenker 1989]. The disease is more common in women than men [Harbo 2013], and its prevalence 
is  highest  among  Caucasians,  with  higher  rates  reported  in  North  America,  Europe,  Australia,  New 
Zealand,  and  northern  Asia  [Noseworthy  2000;  Rosati  2001].  MS  is  a  major  cause  of  the  overall 
neurological  disease  burden  [Group  GNDC  2017],  with  approximately  2.2  million  individuals  affected 
worldwide,  corresponding  to  a  prevalence  of  30.1  per  100,000  [GBD  2016  Multiple  Sclerosis 
Collaborators 2019].  
Approximately 2.2% to 4.4% of all MS cases are in paediatric-onset patients [Chitnis 2011]. The majority 
(98%) present with a relapsing-remitting course and usually have a higher annual relapse rate than the 
patients with adult-onset MS [Alroughani and Boyko 2018; Pena and Lotze 2013] but tend to recover 
better  than  adults  do  [Chitnis 2013].  Overall,  MS  disease  progression,  including  physical  disability,  is 
slower in children, and progression to secondary progressive MS occurs 10 years later than it does in 
adult-onset MS [Alroughani and Boyko 2018; Renoux 2007; Wright 2017]. However, while there is less 
likelihood of secondary progression of MS in childhood, by age 35 years half of the paediatric-onset MS 
population shows secondary progression. Treatment in children should be started early in the disease 
course to reduce the relapse rate and disease progression and to improve the long-term outlook. Similar 
to adult-onset MS, the treatment goal is to prevent acute relapses and the formation of new brain lesions 
and  to  slow  disease  progression.  Although  there  are  currently  several  medications  with  various 
mechanisms of action and routes of administration approved for adult-onset MS, fingolimod has been 
approved for paediatric-onset MS and, as of Jun 2021, the European Commission approved the use of 
teriflunomide (Aubagio®) for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 10 through 17 years with RRMS. 
On  22  April  2022,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion on the extension of the indication of Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarare) to the treatment of paediatric 
patients  aged  13  years  and  older  with  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis  (RRMS).  rior  to  these 
medications, studies have been conducted using interferon preparations (2 IFN β-1a and 1 IFN β-1b) 
and GA in the paediatric population with MS. 
Biogen Idec initially developed a recombinant human form of IFN β-1a (Avonex) over 25 years ago, for 
the  treatment  of  MS  in  adults.  IFNs  are  a  family  of  proteins  and  glycoproteins  that  are  produced  by 
eukaryotic cells in response to viral infection and other biological inducers and that mediate antiviral, 
antiproliferative, and immunomodulatory activities. Human IFN-β, a type I IFN, is produced by various 
cell types, including fibroblasts and macrophages, and exerts its biological effects by binding to specific 
receptors  on  the  surface  of  human  cells.  The  binding  of  this  cytokine  to  specific  receptors  initiates  a 
complex  cascade  of  intracellular  events  that  lead  to  the  expression  of  numerous  IFN-induced  gene 
products and markers affecting the immune system. The mechanism of action by which Avonex exerts 
its effects in patients with MS is unknown, although Avonex has been shown to slow the accumulation 
of physical disability and to decrease the frequency of clinical exacerbations of MS in randomized and 
placebo-controlled clinical study.  
Avonex was approved in the US on 17 May 1996 and in the EU on 13 Mar 1997. As of Feb 2021, Avonex 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 8/21 
 
 
 
 
is approved in 89 countries worldwide, including the US and Europe. Avonex is indicated for the treatment 
of  patients  with  RRMS  to  slow  the  accumulation  of  physical  disability  and  decrease  the  frequency  of 
clinical exacerbations, for treatment of patients who have experienced a single demyelinating event, and 
for treatment of patients who are at risk of developing clinically definite MS. In Canada and Australia, 
Avonex is also approved for the treatment of patients with secondary progressive MS, where relapse is 
still a feature of the disease. In the US, Avonex is approved in adults for the treatment of relapsing forms 
of MS, including clinically isolated syndrome, RRMS, and active secondary progressive MS. No market or 
registration withdrawals are associated with this product. 
The  MAH  has  requested  a  type  II  variation  to  update  sections  4.2  and  4.8  of  the  SmPC  to  add  new 
information regarding safety in paediatric population. 
6.  Clinical aspects 
6.1.  Information  on  the  pharmaceutical  formulation  used  in  the  study 
109MS306 Part 1 
Avonex was supplied in the Study 109MS306 Part 1 as an autoinjector pen (Avonex Pen®) in countries 
in which the Avonex Pen was approved. In countries in which the Avonex Pen was not approved, it was 
supplied as a liquid prefilled (Luer lock) syringe (Avonex Prefilled Syringe). These syringes were intended 
for single use injection only. In addition, the titration kit (Avostartgrip™ or Avostartclip™) was provided 
for the first 4 weeks of the Study Treatment Period. 
The Avonex Pen and Avonex Prefilled Syringe are formulated as a sterile clear liquid for IM injection. 
Each 0.5 mL of Avonex in a prefilled glass syringe contains 30 μg of IFN β-1a. Other ingredients include 
sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid, arginine hydrochloride, and polysorbate 20 in water for 
injection at a pH of approximately 4.8. Using the World Health Organization’s natural IFN β standards, 
30 μg of IFN β-1a contains approximately 6 million IU of antiviral activity. 
The MAH confirms in the responses provided at Day 60 that there is a high experience with the use of 
the currently marketed formulation of Avonex® (30 micrograms/0.5ml solution for injection in pre-filled 
pen) in  paediatric  patients,  with  an  acceptable  safety  profile.  As  no  indication  in  children  is  foreseen, 
there is no need for a paediatric specific formulation. None of the excipients is known to have safety 
concerns used as intended in paediatric patients. 
6.2.  Clinical Pharmacology 
No information on clinical pharmacology of Avonex has been provided by the MAH.  
6.3.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
There is no specific discussion on the efficacy of Avonex in this population. The MAH states in the Clinical 
Overview  addendum  that  the  benefit  of  Avonex  in  the  pediatric  population  remains  undefinedand 
therefore, Avonex should not be used in children without careful evaluation of the benefit-risk ratio. 
Avonex  is  not  approved  for  the  treatment  of  pediatric  patients  with  MS.  There  have  been  no  formal 
clinical studies to assess the efficacy of interferon beta-1a in this population and the majority of data 
come  from  open-label  observational  or  retrospective  studies.  Despite  limited  published  data,  Avonex 
(and other IFN β agents and glatiramer acetate) is allowed to be used in paediatric patients with MS 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 9/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
according  to  the  dosage  and  administration  instructions  recommended  for  adults  in  the  summary  of 
product characteristics (SmPC). 
Three medicinal products have been recently approved for the treatment of RRMS in this population:  
•  Gilenya (fingolimod) is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis for the following groups of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 
10 years and older:  
o  patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with 
at least one disease modifying therapy (for exceptions and information about washout 
periods see Sections 4.4 and 5.1)  
or 
o  patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 
or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions 
on  brain  MRI  or  a  significant  increase  in  T2  lesion  load  as  compared  with  a  previous 
recent MRI. 
•  Aubagio (teriflunomide) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients and paediatric patients 
aged 10 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis  
• 
Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate, DMF) is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients 
aged 13 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Of  note,  the  main  clinical  trials  conducted  with  fingolimod  (study  PARADIGMS)  and  DMF  (study 
CONNECT)  included  Interferon  beta-1a  IM  (Avonex  30  μg  once  weekly)  as  active  comparator. 
Teriflunomide was compared to placebo in the study TERIKIDS. These clinical developments were agreed 
with the PDCO. In the case of DMF, the inclusion of IFN β-1a as control arm was done at request of the 
PDCO based on its consideration as standard of care. 
The  results  of  these  studies  provide  new  evidence  in  the  field  and  may  have  consequences  in  the 
therapeutic  recommendations  and/or  clinical  trial  designs.  However,  currently  treatments  such  as 
interferon- β (including Avonex) and glatiramer acetate, are still recommended as first-line therapies in 
the  consensus/guidelines  of  reference  in  the  field  1,2,3,4,5 and  their  use  may  remain  suitable  for  some 
patients.  
During the procedure, the MAH provided a discussion on the most recent Avonex® efficacy data available 
from  the  CONNECT  and  PARADIGMS  clinical  trials.  These  data,  although  limited  to  do  a  firm 
recommendation on posology, are considered useful for prescribers.  A proposal for the update of section 
5.1 of the SmPc is requested to reflect a summary of these efficacy data. 
6.4.  Clinical Safety aspects 
6.4.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted & results 
For the purpose of this type II variation, the MAH has considered 2 interventional randomized, controlled 
studies that use IM Avonex as an active comparator arm (Study 109MS306 [CONNECT] and published 
literature  study  PARADIGMS),  as  well  as  4  published  literature  observational  studies  in  MS  paediatric 
participants using Avonex, and postmarketing data from the Biogen Global Safety Database (GSD).  
Avonex has not been evaluated as the investigational medicinal product compared with placebo in any 
randomized, controlled studies for paediatric-onset MS. A targeted literature search for these published 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 10/21 
 
 
 
 
 
observational  studies  was  conducted  in  Embase  with  data  lock  point  of  12  February  2021  to  identify 
articles reporting safety findings for Avonex in the paediatric population employing the following search 
strategy:  (child:ab,ti  OR  pediatric:ab,ti  OR  paediatric:ti,ab  OR  adolescent:ab,ti)  AND  ('beta 
interferon':ab,ti OR 'interferon beta':ab,ti OR 'beta1a interferon':ab,ti OR 'avonex':ab,ti). Search results 
were screened based on title or abstract, and relevant articles were selected based on full texts. Case 
reports for Avonex identified from the literature are included in the GSD and are therefore included or 
considered within the information submitted by the company.  
The overall safety evaluation plan for these paediatric participants with an age range of 10 to 17 years 
is summarized as follows: 
Study 109MS306 (Part 1) 
STUDY POPULATION  
The  Part  1  study  period  is  an  open-label,  randomized,  multicenter,  multiple-dose,  active-controlled, 
parallel-group, efficacy, and safety study of Tecfidera versus Avonex as the active comparator arm. The 
treatment  period  for  Part  1  lasted  for  96  weeks.  Part  2  is  the  optional  extension  phase,  in  which  all 
participants  will  receive  Tecfidera  for  assessment  of  the  long-term  safety  outcomes  of  Tecfidera 
treatment. The extension phase has not yet been completed. 
The safety analyses from Part 1 were performed using the intent to treat (ITT) Population (all participants 
who were randomly assigned to a treatment group and received at least 1 dose of study treatment). A 
total of 150 participants from 10 to 17 years old were included in the ITT Population (Avonex 30 μg IM 
weekly: 72 participants; Tecfidera 240 mg orally twice daily: 78 participants), and more than two-thirds 
of  the  participants  were  female  (101  participants  [67%]).  Racial  group  was  not  collected  for  53 
participants (35%) because of confidentiality regulations and was missing or unknown for an additional 
67 participants (45%). The mean (SD) weight was 63.88 (14.576) kg, the mean (SD) height was 164.5 
(8.68) cm, and the mean (SD) body mass index was 23.5 (4.42) kg/m2 . The mean (SD) age was 14.9 
(1.62) years. Overall, the mean (SD) time since the participants first MS symptoms was 1.5 (1.63) years, 
and the mean (SD) time since the participant’s MS diagnosis was 0.8 (1.22) years. 
ADVERSE EVENTS 
Overall,  143  of  150  participants  (95%)  experienced  at  least  1  TEAE  during  the  study  (Avonex:  69 
participants [96%]; Tecfidera: 74 participants [95%]). The majority of participants experiencing TEAEs 
had events assessed as mild or moderate in severity. In the Avonex group, the most frequently reported 
TEAEs (≥ 10% of participants) were influenza like illness (n = 37 [51%]), MS relapse (n = 33 [46%]), 
headache  (n  =  26  [36%]),  pyrexia  (n  =  17  [24%]),  nasopharyngitis  (n  =  9  [13%]),  myalgia  (n  =  9 
[13%]), pain in extremity (n = 8 [11%]), fatigue (n = 7 [10%]), and arthralgia (n = 7 [10%]).  
There were 10 participants (14%) in the Avonex group who experienced 12 severe TEAEs including MS 
relapse (n = 3), headache (n = 2), influenza like illness (n = 2) hepatocellular injury (n = 1), infusion 
related reaction (n = 1), paraesthesia (n = 1), relapsing MS (n = 1), and unevaluable event (n = 1).  
A total of 126 participants (84%) had a TEAE considered related to study treatment by the Investigators. 
The percentage of participants with a study treatment-related TEAE was similar across both treatment 
groups (Avonex: n = 59 [82%]; Tecfidera: n = 67 [86%]). The most frequently reported TEAEs (≥ 10% 
of participants) in the Avonex group that the Investigator considered related to study treatment were 
influenza like illness (n = 36 [50%]), headache (n = 18 [25%]), and pyrexia (n = 12 [17%]). 
Deaths 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 11/21 
 
 
 
 
 
No participants died during this study 
Other Serious Adverse Events  
A  total  of  39  participants  (26%)  had  a  treatment-emergent  SAE  during  the  study  (Avonex:  n  =  21 
[29%];  Tecfidera:  n  =  18  [23%]).  There  were  25  treatment-emergent  SAEs  in  the  Avonex  group 
including MS relapse (n = 18 [25%]), anemia (n = 1 [1%]), groin pain (n = 1 [1%]), hepatocellular 
injury (n = 1 [1%]), hypertension (n = 1 [1%]), influenza like illness (n = 1 [1%]), paraesthesia (n = 
1 [1%]), and relapsing MS (n = 1[1%]), The SAE influenza like illness was considered related to study 
treatment by the Investigator. 
Other Significant Adverse Events 
A total of 13 participants (9%) had a TEAE leading to discontinuation of study treatment (Avonex: n = 
8 [11%]; Tecfidera: n = 5 [6%]). There were 10 TEAEs in the Avonex group that led to study treatment 
discontinuation  including  MS  relapse  (n  =  3  [4%]),  headache  (n  =  1  [1%]),  tremor  (n  =  1  [1%]), 
asthenia (n = 1 [1%]), influenza like illness (n = 1 [1%]), vomiting (n = 1 [1%]), hepatocellular injury 
(n = 1 [1%]), and altered mood (n = 1 [1%]). 
CLINICAL LABORATORY EVALUATIONS  
Hematology Results  
There  were  no  trends  in  mean  change  from  baseline  values  in  erythrocyte  counts,  hemoglobin, 
hematocrit,  or  platelet  counts  in  either  treatment  group.  There  were  no  trends  in  mean  change  from 
baseline  values  in  partial  thromboplastin  time,  prothrombin  time,  or  international  normalized  ratio  in 
either  treatment  group  at  Week  24,  48,  or  96.  Overall,  mean  leukocyte  counts  were  variable  in  both 
treatment groups, and mean leukocyte counts remained normal in both groups throughout the study. 
No participants experienced a TEAE of leukopenia. A total of 4 participants (Avonex n=1, Tecfidera n=3) 
experienced  postbaseline  lymphocyte  counts  <  0.5x109  /L  during  the  study.  The  participant  in  the 
Avonex group had 6 lymphocyte values less than the lower limit of normal between weeks 24 and 72. 
Between the Week 48 and 72 visits the participant had 3 lymphocyte counts 3× ULN, and 2 participants 
had  postbaseline  alkaline  phosphatase  values  >  1.5×  ULN.  There  were  no  participants  who  had 
postbaseline ALT or AST values > 3× ULN and bilirubin > 2× ULN (criteria for Hy’s Law). No participants 
were discontinued from the study due to abnormal laboratory values. 
Blood Chemistry Results  
There were no trends in changes from baseline for any chemistry parameters in the Avonex group with 
the  exception  of  alkaline  phosphatase,  where  there  was  a  decrease  from  baseline  in  mean  alkaline 
phosphatase levels, but the mean values did not go below the normal levels. The incidence of participants 
in the Avonex group with ALT values greater than ULN are as follows:  
· Baseline: Avonex: 4 of 72 participants (6%)  
· Week 48: Avonex: 3 of 58 participants (5%)  
· Week 96: Avonex: 2 of 39 participants (5%)  
The incidence of participants in the Avonex group with AST values greater than ULN are as follows: 
· Baseline: Avonex: 5 of 72 participants (7%)  
· Week 48: Avonex: 2 of 57 participants (4%)  
· Week 96: Avonex: 1 of 39 participants (3%)  
A total of 3 participants in the Avonex group experienced postbaseline ALT or AST values > 3× ULN, and 
2  participants  had  postbaseline  alkaline  phosphatase  values  >  1.5×  ULN.  There  were  no  participants 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 12/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who had postbaseline ALT or AST values > 3× ULN and bilirubin > 2× ULN (criteria for Hy’s Law). No 
participants were discontinued from the study due to abnormal laboratory values.  
VITAL SIGNS, PHYSICAL FINDINGS, AND OTHER OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO SAFETY  
Vital Signs 
The most common clinically relevant vital sign abnormalities (reported in > 10% of evaluated participants 
overall) were high pulse rate classified as > 120 bpm or an increase from baseline of > 20 bpm (n = 41 
[27.0%]),  low  pulse  rate  classified  as  <  50  bpm  or  a  decrease  from  baseline  of  >  20  bpm  (n  =  26 
[17.0%]), and low DBP classified as < 50 mmHg or a decrease from baseline of > 20 mmHg (n = 16 
[11.0%]).  With  the  exception  of  high  pulse  rate  (Avonex:  n  =  17/72  [24%];  Tecfidera:  n  =  24/78 
[31%]), the percentages of participants experiencing each type of clinically relevant abnormality were 
generally similar across both treatment groups.  
ECGs 
Most participants in the Avonex group had normal ECG results throughout the study (ranging from 92% 
to  100%  of  participants  evaluated  across  study  visits,  including  follow-up).  No  participants  had  an 
abnormal ECG result that was considered to be an AE. No participants experienced a shift from normal 
to abnormal ECG that was considered to be an AE. A total of 4 of 68 participants (6%) in the Avonex 
group experienced a shift from normal ECG to abnormal ECG that was not AE. 
During the procedure, the MAH provides information about the two AEs that were underpinned by the 
assessor  in  the  Preliminary  AR  (anaemia  and  hepatocellular  injury).  Although  the  case  of  anaemia  is 
temporally related to Avonex, the information is not solid enough to draw further conclusions concerning 
the  need  to  include  the  event  of  anaemia  under  Avonex´s  SmPC.  In  addition,  although  it  cannot  be 
discarded that the case concerning an autoimmune hepatitis could be a reactivation related to Avonex, 
it is already enclosed within Avonex´s SmPC and thus, no further actions would be considered necessary.  
PARADIGMS Study 
STUDY POPULATION  
The  sponsor  of  Study  PARADIGMS  was  Novartis  Pharma.  The  relevant  study  information  and  data 
available to Biogen were from the published literature article [Chitnis 2018b ].  
PARADIGMS was a 2-year, double-blind, randomized, multicenter, active-controlled, parallel group study 
to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  fingolimod  administered  once  daily  versus  Avonex  (active 
comparator) once weekly. The study period lasted up to 24 months.  
A total of 215 participants were included in the study: 107 participants were randomly assigned to oral 
fingolimod  0.5  mg  (0.25 mg;  participants  ≤  40  kg),  and  108  participants  were  randomly  assigned to 
Avonex 30 μg IM weekly. The mean age was 15.3 years, 62.3% of the study population was female, and 
the majority (91.6%) were White [Chitnis 2018b ]. The mean weight was 62.6 kg, and there was a mean 
of 2.4 relapses during the 2 years prior to Screening. 
ADVERSE EVENTS  
Overall,  197  of  214  participants  in  the  Safety  Set  (Avonex:  n  =  102  [95.3%];  fingolimod:  n  =  95 
[88.8%]) experienced any AE. In the Avonex group, the most frequently reported AEs (≥ 10.0%) are as 
follows: influenza like illness (n = 40 [37.4%]), headache (n = 32 [29.9%]), viral upper respiratory tract 
infection  (n  =  26  [24.3%]),  pyrexia  (n  =  22  [20.6%]),  cough  (n  =  12  [11.2%]),  and  chills  (n  =  11 
[10.3%]). 
Deaths: There were no deaths during the study period.  
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 13/21 
 
 
 
 
Other Serious Adverse Events: A total of 7 participants (6.5%) in the Avonex group had at least 1 SAE. 
There were 3 participants (2.8%) in the Avonex group with an SAE of MS relapse, and 1 (0.9%) of each 
of  the  following  SAEs:  dizziness,  fatigue,  gastroesophageal  reflux  disease,  headache,  increased  body 
temperature, optic neuritis, paronychia, pyrexia, sensory loss, supraventricular tachycardia, uveitis, and 
viral gastritis. 
Other Significant Adverse Events: Study treatment was discontinued if the investigator determined that 
continuing it would result in a significant risk for that participant. The following conditions automatically 
resulted  in  permanent  study  treatment  discontinuation  per  the  study  protocol:  elevated  liver 
aminotransferase levels, macular edema, cardiac arrythmias, ECG abnormalities, and pregnancy [Chitnis 
2018b ]. There were other conditions that supported the decision to discontinue study treatment. A total 
of 3 participants (2.8%) experienced AEs that led to permanent discontinuation of study treatment in 
the Avonex group [Chitnis 2018a ]. 
CLINICAL LABORATORY EVALUATIONS  
Hematology Results 
 In the Avonex group, no relevant changes were observed in the mean absolute lymphocyte count during 
the study. Overall, 24.3% of participants had an absolute lymphocyte count below the normal range at 
least once in the study. The majority of participants (n = 27 [93.1%]) had a normal absolute lymphocyte 
count  within  45  days  after  discontinuation  of  treatment  [Chitnis  2021].  Three  participants  (2.8%) 
experienced leukopenia, and there were no reports of a decrease in white blood cell count.  
Blood Chemistry Results  
In the Avonex group, 5 participants (4.7%) experienced an increase in ALT levels, and 5 participants 
(4.7%)  experienced  increase  in  AST  levels.  There  were  no  participants  who  had  an  increase  in  γ-
glutamyltransferase. 
VITAL SIGNS, PHYSICAL FINDINGS, AND OTHER OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO SAFETY  
Vital Signs Vital signs were evaluated by the Investigators or a specialist physician in the relevant medical 
field. Data regarding vital signs were not reported in the published literature article.  
ECGs  
There  was  1  participant  (0.9%)  who  experienced  supraventricular  tachycardia  in  the  IFNβ-1a  group. 
There were no other ECG findings reported in the published literature article.  
Since a discrepancy was observed regarding the EPAR of fingolimod the MAH clarifies in the RSI that no 
cases of “tachycardia” was reported in the Avonex IM group and no more information about the SAE of 
supraventricular tachycardia was included. 
Safety Data from Observational Studies in Published Literature  
Interferon-β treatment in patients with childhood-onset multiple sclerosis: Reported on the 
use of IFN-β (Avonex, Rebif, Betaferon) in patients with childhoodonset MS [Mikaeloff 2001]. 
STUDY POPULATION  
The case series of IFNβ treatment [Mikaeloff 2001] included a total of 16 participants (14 females and 2 
males)  with  a  median  age  of  15.5  years.  Two  females  had  an  autoimmune  disorder  of  either  type  1 
diabetes or thyroiditis before starting treatment. The 3 different treatments were as follows: Avonex 30 
μg IM given every week (n = 13 participants), Rebif 22 μg SC given 3 times per week (n = 2 participants), 
and Betaferon 8 × 106 IU SC given every 2 days (n = 1 participant). From the 16 patients, 7 patients 
were 16 y.o. or over, therefore only 9 were below 16. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 14/21 
 
 
 
 
ADVERSE EVENTS  
The common AEs for each observational study are listed in Table 1.  
Table 1: Summary of observational studies in the literature 
According to the data provided, 6 patients worsened. Within the Avonex group, 4 patients interrupted 
the  treatment  because  of  frequent  relapse  attacks.  This  study  shows  a  25%  of  treatment  failure, 
explained by the authors because of severe forms of the disease with numerous polysymptomatic onset. 
Flu-like syndrome was observed in 11 cases and isolated myalgia in 3 patients. Injection site reactions 
were moderate (3 patients had localized erythema). No hematologic or hepatic effects were observed, 
except in one patient who had a moderate but transient increase in transaminase levels at initiation of 
treatment with spontaneous normalization. One patient with type 1 diabetes developed hyperglycaemia 
after injection of IFN-beta (no details of which of the IFN products). 
Treatment  of  early-onset  multiple  sclerosis  with  intramuscular  interferon  β-1a:  long-term 
results: Evaluated the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of Avonex in patients with onset 
of MS symptoms [Ghezzi 2007]. 
STUDY POPULATION  
The population of the long-term safety study with Avonex 30 mg IM [Ghezzi 2007] was composed of 52 
participants with symptom onset at a mean age of 11.7 ± 2.7 years. There were 33 female participants 
and 19 male participants. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 15/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADVERSE EVENTS  
In  the  [Ghezzi  2007]  article,  treatment  was  changed  during  the  follow-up  period  in  19  participants 
(36.5%). After a mean ± SD interval of 33.7 ± 19.6 months, 11 participants had their treatment changed 
to  22  μg  of  Rebif  (8  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  and  3  due  to  AEs),  2  participants  were  switched  to other 
treatments  (1  shifted  to  mitoxantrone,  followed  by  Copaxone  and  1  shifted  to  intravenous 
immunoglobulin),  and  6  participants  experienced  interruption  in  study  treatment  (2  for  lack  of 
compliance,  1  for  persistent  leukopenia,  1  for  ineffectiveness,  and  2  for  other  reasons).  Of  these 
medication shifts, 13 participants were females, and 6 participants were male. As mentioned before, the 
most common AEs for each observational study are listed in Table 1.  
Long-term results of immunomodulatory treatment in children and adolescents with MS: the 
Italian  experience:  Evaluated  the  effects  of 
immunomodulatory  agents  (Avonex, 
Rebif/Betaferon, Copaxone) in a large cohort of MS patients with disease onset in childhood 
or adolescence [Ghezzi 2009]. 
STUDY POPULATION  
The  study  of  long-term  results  of  immunomodulatory  treatment  of  children  and  adolescents  in  Italy 
[Ghezzi  2009]  was  composed  of  130  participants  (Avonex  [dose  not  specified]:  n  =  77,  Rebif  22 
μg/Betaferon [dose not specified]: n = 39, and Copaxone [dose not specified]: n = 14). There were a 
total of 83 females, with the male-to-female ratio and average age of onset in each treatment group 
broken down as follows:  
• Avonex: male/female, 30/47; mean age, 11.4 ± 3.1  
• Rebif/Betaferon: male/female, 14/25; mean age, 12.6 ± 2.6  
• Copaxone: male/female, 3/11; mean age, 13.1 ± 1.5  
Both studies have been performed in the same Italian database. This is a multicentric study of 2003, 
that  takes  part  with  the  participation  of  18  different  centres  that  was  designed  with  the  purpose  of 
assessing the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of patients with an early diagnosis of MS (< 16 y.o.). 
As indicated on the 2009 publication, briefly, patients were included in the study if they were given a 
diagnosis of definite MS according to McDonald’s criteria, followed a relapsing course according to Lublin’s 
criteria, experienced onset of symptoms of MS before 16 years of age and began treatment with IMAs 
before 16 years of age. Patients with pretreatment or follow-up duration <6 months were excluded. In 
the  publication  of  2007,  the  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  safety,  tolerability  and  effectiveness  of  IM 
interferon  beta-1a  30  mg  once  a  week  in  patients  with  onset  of  symptoms  of  MS  in  childhood  or 
adolescence. As for the study of 2009, the main objective is to evaluate the effect of immunomodulatory 
agents in a large cohort of MS patients with disease onset in childhood or adolescence, treated before 
16 years of age, after a long-term follow-up. 
ADVERSE EVENTS  
The common AEs for each observational study are listed in Table 1. 
In  the  study  of  2007,  a  total  of  67%  of  patients  presented  clinical  AE,  being  again  flu-like  syndrome 
(33%), headache (29%) myalgia (21%), fever (11%), fatigue (6%) nausea and vomiting (6%) and skin 
reaction (4%), and most of them were transient. The study only focuses on long-term safety of the 52 
patients  that  continued  the  study  and  no  comparison  has  been  provided  in  order  to  know  if  these 
frequencies are similar to those in adults (as mentioned in the CONNECT study, headache seems to be 
more common in children and this data mentions as well evidence with Avonex). Therefore, it is very 
difficult to conclude any details about the safety of Avonex in children. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 16/21 
 
 
 
 
In the study of 2009, it seems that more patients have been included, with a longer-term follow-up. As 
well,  it  provides  an  specific  evaluation  for  children  between  12  and  16  y.o.  In  this  case,  some 
differentiation  has  been  provided  between  the  different  IFNs.  In  this  case,  30  out  of  the  77  patients 
treated with Avonex experienced clinical side effects: flu-like syndrome (19 patients, 24,7%); headache 
(15 patients, 19.5%); myalgia (7 patients, 9.1%); persistent fatigue (5 patients, 6.5%); skin injection 
reaction (5 patients, 6.5%); persistent psychological disturbances (2 patients, 2.6%). These events are 
all included within the adults ADRs for Avonex. 
In light of the above, the safety information that derived from these two non-interventional studies is 
limited to a very limited number of patients and only belong to one region (Italy). Therefore, this safety 
information cannot be extrapolated to the rest of the population.  
IFN-beta in paediatric multiple sclerosis patients: safety in short-term prescription: Evaluated 
the  safety  of  paediatric  patients  <  16  years  old  with  RRMS  taking  Betaseron  and  Avonex 
[Basiri K 2012]. 
STUDY POPULATION  
In the observational short-term safety study [Basiri K 2012], a total of 13 participants younger than 16 
years who were recently diagnosed with RRMS were enrolled in the study. Six participants were in the 
Avonex  arm  30  μg  IM  once  weekly,  and  7  participants  were  treated  with  Betaferon  250  μg  SC  every 
other  day.  Eleven  participants  were  female,  and  2  participants  were  male.  This  study  describes  the 
effectiveness and tolerability of intramuscular interferon beta1-a, Avonex, and subcutaneously injected 
interferon beta 1-b in children with definite relapsing-remitting MS. It only includes short-term use (9 
months) and therefore it does not consider relevant aspects of the use in children that involve long-term 
use. 
A 46.2% of the patients present MS with only optic nerve involvement. Thus, this should be carefully 
considered taking into account that optic neuritis and vision blurred seem to be the SAEs that appear in 
higher proportion in paediatric population than in adults. Therefore, the solidness of this study in order 
to be considered for the safety of the paediatric population being consistent to the adults is questionable, 
despite its apparent improvement in relapses (of the 13 patients totally included, 9 had no relapse and 
4 had one relapse only, during the 9 months of follow-up). 
ADVERSE EVENTS  
The common AEs for each observational study are listed in Table 1.The AEs that were observed in ≥ 2 
studies were flu like syndrome, headache, myalgia, fatigue, and injection site reactions. Most of these 
events were transient. The abnormalities observed in ≥ 2 studies were abnormal thyroid function and 
elevated liver enzymes. Most of these events were transient. Vital signs and ECG data were not reported 
across the 4 studies. There were no deaths reported across these studies. 
In summary, due to the methodological differences in the study designs of these paediatric interventional 
and observational studies, no formal statistical comparison of results across the studies was performed 
for this submission, however the paucity of a comparison between these retrieved and its extrapolation 
in the adult population, hampers the assessment of the data being consistent across the two different 
populations  (adults  and  children).  Furthermore,  no  information  concerning  the  effect  on  growth  and 
puberty  or  the  long-term  adverse  effects  on  the  immature  system  have  been  answered  across  these 
studies. Therefore, the data from non-interventional studies are not enough to support the requested 
change to indicate that the safety profile in children from 10 to 18 y.o. is consistent to what seen in 
adults. 
Postmarketing Data  
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 17/21 
 
 
 
 
The estimated postmarketing exposure in adults is based on Avonex market data available through 30 
March  2021.  Cumulative  global  patient  exposure  to  Avonex  is  approximately  600,985  patients, 
representing  approximately  2,752,261  patient-years.  There  is  limited  postmarketing  experience  with 
administration  of  Avonex  30  μg  IM  in  the  paediatric  population.  Therefore,  as  of  03  May  2021,  there 
were no data available allowing further calculation of Avonex exposure in paediatric patients (Section 8, 
Periodic Safety Update Report 04 May 2018 to 03 May 2021). The list of adverse reactions reported in 
paediatric participants (aged 2 to < 18 years) from postmarketing and clinical studies in Biogen GSD 
was attached in the relevant section of the information provided by the MAH, but not attached to this 
report.  
As of 03 May 2021, cumulatively, a total of 3117 cases in paediatric participants were reported in the 
GSD, including 6663 nonserious AEs and 669 SAEs.  
The most frequently reported AEs in paediatric participants (i.e.,> 100) obtained from a search of the 
GSD  were  off  label  use  (n  =  726),  product  administered  to  patient  of  inappropriate  age  (n  =  665), 
influenza like illness (n = 485), MS relapse (n = 439), headache (n = 322), pyrexia (n = 274), chills (n 
=  190),  fatigue  (n  =  176),  MS  (n  =  148),  injection site  pain  (n  =  145),  pain (n  =  137),  and pain  in 
extremity (n = 116). The most frequently reported SAEs (i.e.,> 4) in paediatric participants from the 
same GSD search were MS relapse (n = 216), MS (n = 27), seizure (n = 14), pyrexia (n = 11), optic 
neuritis (n = 11), depression (n = 9), hypoaesthesia (n = 9), paraesthesia (n = 6), encephalomyelitis 
(n = 5), generalized tonic-clonic seizure (n = 5), pain (n = 5), and vision blurred (n = 5). MS relapse 
seems  to  be  one  of  the  most  common  effects  on  the  paediatric  population.  Apparently,  this  can  be 
explained by the annualized relapse rate of paediatric-onset being higher than that of the adult-onset 
MS  (mentioned  in  the  second  observational  study,  for  instance).The  proportion  of  reports  of  SAEs  of 
optic neuritis and vision blurred was higher for paediatric participants than for adult participants. This 
can be attributed to the higher prevalence of optic neuritis in the paediatric MS population, based on 
epidemiological study results reported in the published literature [Hennes 2017; Nikolić 2020; Yılmaz 
2017]. However, it is difficult to assess these data without an estimation of the exposure since it is not 
clear if this statement is based on the absolute numbers or not. 
After reviewing all data, the MAH was requested to provide a more detailed comparison and discussion 
of the safety of Avonex in adults versus paediatric population.  
6.5.  Discussion 
Avonex  is  not  approved  for  the treatment  of  paediatric  patients  with  MS.  There  have  been  no  formal 
clinical studies to assess the efficacy of interferon beta-1a in this population and the majority of data 
come  from  open-label  observational  or  retrospective  studies.  Despite  limited  published  data,  Avonex 
(and other IFN β agents and glatiramer acetate) is allowed to be used in paediatric patients with MS 
according to the dosage and administration instructions recommended for adults in the SmPC. 
The MAH has requested a type II variation to update sections 4.2 and 4.8 of the SmPC to amend existing 
safety information of Avonex in paediatric population, following completion of Tecfidera Paediatric Study 
109MS306 (CONNECT- part 1), that uses Avonex as an active comparator arm, available of data from 
published literature and post-marketing data from Biogen global safety database.  
The assessor considers that the aim of the provided data is contradictory with the benefit-risk conclusions 
that the MAH has provided, not recommending the use of Avonex in children, specially mentioned that 
the use in this population remains undefined.  
The  results  of  the  studies  conducted  with  the  medicinal  products  recently  approved  for  pediatric  MS 
patients (i.e. fingolimod, teriflunomide, dimethyl fumarate) provide new evidence in the field and may 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 18/21 
 
 
 
 
have consequences in the therapeutic recommendations and/or clinical trial designs. In some of these 
studies  Avonex  was  use  as  active  comparator.  In  fact,  treatments  such  as  interferon-  β  (including 
Avonex)  are  still  recommended  as  first-line  therapies  in  the  consensus/guidelines  of  reference  in  the 
field and they are expected to remain suitable for some patients. This accepted use of Avonex appears 
not to be in line with the information currently reflected in the SmPC (Section 4.2), where it is stated 
that the safety and efficacy of Avonex in adolescents aged 12 to 16 years have not yet been established 
and no recommendation on a posology can be made. The wording now proposed in Section 4.2 with this 
variation (“There are limited data available in children and adolescents aged 10 to less than 18 years old 
”) does not represent a relevant change in this respect. It seems therefore appropriate that the MAH 
provides a proper discussion on the available efficacy data as well as a proposal to update the SmPC 
with the information to be useful for prescribers.   
At request the MAH provided a discussion on the most recent Avonex® efficacy data available from the 
CONNECT and PARADIGMS clinical trials. These data, although limited to do a firm recommendation on 
posology, are considered useful for prescribers.  A proposal for the update of section 5.1 of the SmPc is 
requested to reflect a summary of these efficacy data.   
In  addition,  regarding  safety  the  MAH  provided  limited  data  and  information  from  non-interventional 
studies and postmarketing experience did not support the MAH’s proposal for the inclusion in 4.8 that 
the  safety  profile  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  10  less  than  18  years  of  age  receiving  Avonex  is 
consistent with that seen in adults. After request and regarding clinical trials, the discussion between 
the AEs observed in the two paediatric trials in which Avonex was the active comparator arm (CONNECT 
and PARADIGM) showed that most of the AEs from these studies have the same frequency category as 
described in the SmPC for adults. However, there were some AEs such as myalgia, pain in extremity, 
fatigue  and  arthralgia  that  have  a  higher  frequency  in  paediatric  population.  According  to  the  EMA 
Guideline  on  SmPC  (EMA/551202/2010  Rev  1;  Frequently  asked  questions  on  SmPC  paediatric 
information), the information about the AEs reported with a higher frequency than in adults should be 
included  in  the  paediatric  sub-section  of  section  4.8,  whether  or  not  the  medicinal  product  has  an 
approved indication in the paediatric population”. Therefore, section 4.8 of the SmPC and section 4 of 
the PIL, subsection children (10 years and above) and adolescents is updated to include some AEs such 
as myalgia, pain in extremity, fatigue and arthralgia that have a higher frequency in paediatric population 
(very common) than in the adult population (common).  
In light of the above, the MAH was also requested to provide a proposal for the wording in sections 4.8 
and 5.1 reflecting the available information in MS patients 10 to 18 years of age.  
7.  PRAC advice 
N/A 
8.  Changes to the Product Information 
As  a  result  of  this  variation,  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.8,  5.1of  the  SmPC  are  being  updated.  The  Package 
Leaflet (PL) is updated accordingly. 
Section 4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
AVONEX is indicated in adults for the treatment of  
• 
Patients diagnosed with relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). In clinical trials, this was characterised 
by two or more acute exacerbations (relapses) in the previous three-years without evidence of 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 19/21 
 
 
 
 
 
continuous progression between relapses; AVONEX slows the progression of disability and 
decreases the frequency of relapses. 
• 
Patients with a single demyelinating event with an active inflammatory process, if it is severe 
enough to warrant treatment with intravenous corticosteroids, if alternative diagnoses have been 
excluded, and if they are determined to be at high risk of developing clinically definite multiple 
sclerosis (see section 5.1). 
AVONEX should be discontinued in patients who develop progressive MS. 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Paediatric population:  
The safety and efficacy of AVONEX in children and adolescents aged 10 to 18 years have not yet 
been fully established. Currently available data are described in section 4.8 and 5.1 but no 
recommendation on a posology can be made. 
The safety and efficacy of AVONEX in children below 10 years of age have not yet been established.  
No data are available. 
Section 4.8 
Undesirable Effects 
Paediatric population 
Limited data from literature, clinical trials and postmarketing experience suggest that the safety 
profile in children and adolescents from 10 to less than18 years of age receiving AVONEX 30 
micrograms IM once per week is consistent with that seen in adults.  
The safety information obtained from the use of AVONEX as an active comparator in a 96 
week open label, randomised trial in paediatric patients with relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis aged 10 to less than 18 years (with only 10% of the overall study population < 13 
years) shows that in the AVONEX group (n=72), the following adverse events which are 
common in adult population were reported as very common in paediatric population: 
myalgia, pain in extremity, fatigue, and arthralgia.  
Section 5.1  
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Paediatric population 
Limited data of the efficacy/safety of AVONEX 15 micrograms IM once per week (n=8) as compared to 
no treatment (n=8) with follow up for 4 years showed results in line to those seen in adults, although 
the EDSS scores increased in the treated group over the 4 year follow-up thus indicating disease 
progression. No direct comparison with the dose currently recommended in adults is available. 
AVONEX 30 micrograms/0.5 ml solution for injection was studied as an active comparator in 
2 controlled clinical trials in paediatric patients aged 10 to less than 18 years with relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (see section 4.2).  
In an open-label randomised active controlled trial, 150 participants were randomly 
assigned in a 1:1 ratio to treatment with dimethyl fumarate, administered orally at a dose of 
240 mg twice a day, or AVONEX, administered at a dose of 30 μg once weekly by 
intramuscular (IM) injection, for 96 weeks.  
In the ITT population, treatment with dimethyl fumarate resulted in a higher proportion of 
patients with no new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions at Week 96 relative to 
baseline as compared with AVONEX [12.8% versus 2.8% respectively]. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled study, 215 participants were randomly 
assigned to receive either oral fingolimod (0.5 mg once daily or 0.25 mg once daily for 
patients weighing ≤40 kg) or AVONEX 30 μg IM once weekly for up to 24 months. 
The primary endpoint, the adjusted annualized relapse rate (ARR) at week 96, was 
significantly lower in patients treated with fingolimod (0.122) compared to patients who 
received AVONEX (0.675), translating into an 81.9% relative reduction in ARR (p <0.001). 
Overall, the safety profile in patients receiving AVONEX in the two clinical trials was 
qualitatively consistent with that previously observed in adult patients. 
9.  Attachments 
1. Product Information (changes highlighted) as adopted by the CHMP on 15 December 2022. 
Assessment report 
EMA/23616/2023 
Page 21/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
