23 March 2017 
EMA/237809/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), Corr. 1 1  
Assessment report 
Axumin  
International non-proprietary name: fluciclovine (18f) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004197/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
1 5 June 2019 - Title of the false positives and true negatives has been switched between false positives and true negatives. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 37 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 47 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 74 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 80 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 82 
2.9. New Active Substance ........................................................................................ 82 
2.10. Product information .......................................................................................... 83 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 83 
3.1. Therapeutic Context ........................................................................................... 83 
3.2. Favourable effects .............................................................................................. 84 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects ............................................. 85 
3.4. Unfavourable effects ........................................................................................... 85 
3.5. Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects ......................................... 86 
3.6. Effects Table ...................................................................................................... 86 
3.7. Benefit-risk assessment and discussion ................................................................. 87 
3.8. Conclusions ....................................................................................................... 88 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 89 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 2/90 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AATs  
BCR  
BED  
BIE  
BPH  
Boc 
CI  
CT  
CTD  
DR  
eCRF  
ECG  
EOS 
FDG  
GCP  
GEHC  
GI  
hERG  
HV  
IV  
LN  
MRI  
NMP  
NOEL  
NPV  
OHACBC  
OPTT  
OUS  
PCa  
PET  
PET-CT  
Ph. Eur. 
pi  
PPV  
PSA  
PSA-DT  
RCP 
SPECT  
SUV  
TEAE  
TRUS  
Amino acid transporters  
Biochemically recurrent  
Blue Earth Diagnostics Ltd  
Blinded image evaluation  
Benign prostatic hypertrophy  
Tert-butylyoxycarbonyl 
Confidence interval  
Computerized tomography  
Common technical document  
Detection rate  
Electronic case report form  
Electrocardiogram  
End of synthesis 
Fludeoxyglucose  
Good clinical practice  
GE Healthcare  
Gastrointestinal  
Human Ether-à-go-go-Related Gene  
Healthy volunteers  
Intravenous  
Lymph node  
Magnetic resonance imaging  
Nihon Medi-Physics  
No observed effect level  
Negative predictive value  
anti-1-amino-3-hydroxycyclobutane-
carboxylic-acid  
Orthotopic prostate tumour 
transplantation  
Oslo University  
Prostate cancer  
Positron Emission Tomography  
Positron emission tomography - 
computerized tomography  
European Pharmacopeia 
Post-injection  
Positive predictive value  
Prostate specific antigen  
Prostate specific antigen doubling time  
Radiochemical purity 
Single photon emission computerized 
tomography  
Standardized uptake values  
Treatment emergent adverse event  
Transrectal ultrasound  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 3/90 
  
  
                          
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Blue Earth Diagnostics Ltd submitted on 4 December 2015 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Axumin, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMA/CHMP on 26 March 2015.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: “Axumin is a radioactive diagnostic agent for PET imaging 
of adult men with suspected prostate cancer recurrence. Axumin PET imaging may identify sites of prostate 
cancer recurrence. Suspected prostate cancer recurrence is based upon elevated blood prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) levels following initial therapy”. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated that 
fluciclovine (18F) was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting 
certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0256/2015 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP EMEA-001644-PIP02-14 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance fluciclovine (18F) contained in the above medicinal product to be 
considered as a new active substance, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a medicinal 
product previously authorised within the European Union. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 4/90 
  
  
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Harald Enzmann  Co-Rapporteur: Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 4 December 2015. 
•  The procedure started on 31 December 2015.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 22 March 2016. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 23 March 2016. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 01 April 2016.  
•  During the meeting on 28 April 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 03 May 2016. 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 14 October 2016. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 23 November 2016. 
•  During the PRAC meeting on 01 December 2016 the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview 
and Advice to CHMP. The PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice was sent to the applicant on 06 
December 2016. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 15 December 2016, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 February 2017. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 17 March 2017. 
•  During the meeting on 23 March 2017, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a marketing 
authorisation to Axumin on 23 March 2017.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Problem statement 
2.1.1.  Disease or condition 
The prostate is located in the pelvis between the bladder and the external urinary sphincter. There are three 
distinct zonal boundaries (the central zone, the transition zone and the peripheral zone) in the prostate gland 
of an adult male. In older men, the transition zone that surrounds the uretha can enlarge from non-malignant 
growth called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), which affects both the epithelial and the mesenchymal cells 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 5/90 
  
  
 
of the prostate. However most of the cancers in the prostate originate in the peripheral zone. Prostate cancer 
is generally multifocal and present through out the gland. The spread of the disease may occur initially 
through the capsule where the ejaculatory ducts enter the prostate or in the region of the bladder neck and 
can progress to the seminal vesicles or the bladder to invade the surrounding tissues and muscles. There is 
no causal relationship between prostate cancer and BPH.  
Patients with prostate cancer will have received treatment based on the staging, grade and the extent of the 
disease at baseline. Primary curative procedures such as radical prostatectomy, radiotherapy or cryotherapy 
are well-established therapeutic options in the management of localised prostate cancer.   Despite technical 
improvements, there is still a significant risk of cancer recurrence after primary curative therapy.   
2.1.2.  Epidemiology  
Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in men (> 70 years of age) in Europe, with an estimated 
417,000 new cases in 2012. It is a major health concern, especially in developed countries with their greater 
proportion of elderly men in the general population.  There is considerable variability in the incidence 
reported in individual member states, with a 7-fold (25 to 193 per 100,000) difference across the EU. The 
highest rates of prostate cancer are seen in Northern and Western Europe and the lowest rates in Central and 
Eastern Europe2. The relative survival statistics for men with prostate cancer are generally good, with an 
overall 5-year relative survival for 2005-2007 in the EU estimated at 81.7%3. Localized disease confined to 
the prostate is usually not lethal, and may display an indolent course, but metastatic prostate cancer can be 
aggressive and deadly, accounting for nearly all prostate cancer-related deaths. Approximately 92,000 men 
died of prostate cancer in the EU in 2012, the third most common cause of cancer death in men. Up to one 
third of patients treated with curative procedures of the localised primary prostate cancer will experience 
recurrent disease within 10-15 years following primary treatment4,5,6 . 
2.1.3.  Biologic features 
The vast majority of prostate cancers are arising from adenocarcinomas. The degree of differentiation has 
prognostic value and is graded using the Gleason grading system. The scale measures the patterns of growth 
from 1-5 and the differentiation of cells from well to poorly differentiated. 
2.1.4.  Clinical presentation, diagnosis and stage/prognosis 
Prostate cancer is staged using the TNM (tumour, node, and metastasis) staging system from the American 
Joint Committee on Cancer /International Union Against Cancer. The classification designates the primary 
tumour, regional lymph nodes, and distant metastases. T1 stages comprise cancers that are not palpable and 
have been identified using histology or by other means such as rises in PSA levels, T2 to T4 categories may 
2 Ferlay J., Steliarova-Foucher E., Lortet-Tieulent J., Rosso S., Coebergh J.W., Comber H., et al: Cancer incidence and mortality 
patterns in Europe: estimates for 40 countries in 2012. Eur J Cancer 2013; 49: 1374-1403. 
3 Trama A, Foschi R, Larranaga N, Sant M, Fuentes-Raspall R, Serraino D, Tavilla A, Van Eycken L, Nicolai N and the EUROCARE-5 
Working Group. Survival of male genital cancers (prostate, testis and penis) in Europe 1999–2007: Results from the EUROCARE-5 
study. European Journal of Cancer 2015; 51: 2206 - 2216 
4 Freedland SJ and Moul JW. Prostate Specific Antigen recurrence after definitive therapy. J Urol, 2007. 177, 1985-1991 
5 Simmons MN, Stephenson AJ, Klein EA. Natural history of biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy: Risk assessment 
for secondary therapy. European Urology, 2007; 51: 1175–1184. 
6 Agarwal PK, Sadetsky N, Konety BR, Resnick MI, Carroll PR et al. Treatment Failure After Primary and Salvage Therapy for 
Prostate Cancer. Likelihood, Patterns of Care, and Outcomes. Cancer 2008;112:307–14. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 6/90 
  
  
                                                
not be palpable but are visible during imaging, such as transrectal ultrasound (TRU) or magnetic imaging 
resonance (MRI).  
The value of the presence/increase levels of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in the serum is used as a marker 
to indicate the possible presence of prostate cancer. Measurement of PSA is a cornerstone in follow-up after 
local treatment of the primary tumour. Local recurrence after curative treatment is possible without a 
concomitant rise in PSA level and has only been proven in patients with unfavourable pathology, namely, 
undifferentiated tumours. PSA measurement and digital rectal examination comprise the most useful 
combination for first-line examination in follow-up after radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy, but PSA 
measurement may be the only test in cases with favourable pathology (< pT3, pN0, Gleason < 8).   
The PSA level that defines treatment failure differs between men who have undergone radical prostatectomy 
and those who have received radiotherapy. However, following radical prostatectomy, there is international 
consensus that recurrent cancer may be defined by two consecutive PSA values of > 0.2 ng/mL and rising 
(Moul 2000).   After primary radiotherapy, with or without short-term hormonal manipulation, the RTOG-
ASTRO Phoenix Consensus Conference definition of PSA failure is any PSA increase >2 ng/mL higher than the 
PSA nadir value, regardless of the serum concentration of the nadir . 
2.1.5.  Management 
Despite therapeutic improvements, between 27% and 53% of all patients undergoing radical prostatectomy 
or radiotherapy will develop PSA-recurrence.  A rising PSA level usually precedes metastatic progression and 
this is defined in current clinical guidelines as biochemically recurrent prostate cancer (BCR) 7,8. Determining 
the location of the recurrence is critical, as this defines the stage and prognosis of the disease as well as the 
optimal choice of therapy. 
Imaging techniques such as MRI, US and CT have been considered to provide minimal clinical utility in 
screening, early detection or diagnosis of prostate cancer. However, imaging does have role in determining 
the location of metastases and the extent of the recurrence.  The diagnostic accuracy of standard imaging 
tests for the identification of sites of recurrence is low. Almost 90% of the standard battery of imaging tests, 
may be negative. Bone metastases, one of the most frequent location of metastases from prostate cancer, 
are generally detected using technetium (99mTc) ddiphosphonates with not infrequent false-positive cases and 
by sodium fluoride (18F).  Excluding recurrences is also of paramount importance in the diagnostic work-up of 
suspected recurrent prostate cancer.   
Fluciclovine (18F) is proposed for detection of recurrences of prostate cancer in any location (both regional 
and distant sites).  Some other radiopharmaceuticals have been used in the diagnostic work-up of prostate 
cancer with different indications and limitations: 
• 
Prostascint (capromab pendetide), approved in the US for overall detection recurrences (both 
local and distant), has yielded disappointing results according to the 2015 EUA guideline on 
prostate cancer. 
•  Choline PET-CT radiopharmaceuticals, which visualize the choline metabolism associated with the 
tumour cells, are being used in the EU for detection of recurrences of prostate cancer in any 
7 Roach M, Hanks G, Thames H, Jr, et al. Defining biochemical failure following radiotherapy with or without hormonal therapy in 
men with clinically localized prostate cancer: recommendations of the RTOG-ASTRO Phoenix Consensus Conference. Int J Radiat 
Oncol Biol Phys. 2006; 65:965–974. 
8 Thompson IM, Valicenti RK, Albertsen P, Davis BJ, Goldenberg SL, Hahn C, Klein E, Michalski J, Roach M, Sartor O, Wolf JS Jr, 
Faraday MM. Adjuvant and salvage radiotherapy after prostatectomy: AUA/ASTRO Guideline. J Urol. 2013 Aug;190(2):441-9 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 7/90 
  
  
                                                
location (both local, regional and distant).  Three radiopharmaceuticals are used: choline (11C), 
fluoromethylcholine (18F) and fluoroethylcoline (18F).  Choline (11C) is neither registered in 
Europe, and to our data, nor validated.   Fluoroethylcholine (18F) (DE/H/4293/01/MR) is 
registered in the EU for N staging of metastatic lymph nodes in patients at risk for metastases 
and fluoromethylcholine (18F) (authorized in FR) with varying indications for the detection of 
(local, regional and distant) recurrences depending on the particular commercial product.  The 
choline PET results are, however, hampered by the fact that other pathologies involving 
inflammation like benign prostatic hyperplasia, chronic prostatitis or high grade prostatic 
intraepithelial hyperplasia also accumulate choline and can confound the results. 
•  Acetate (11C) is neither validated for the diagnostic work-up of prostate cancer nor registered in 
the EU. 
• 
For detection of bone lesions, labelled diphosphonates for bone scan and sodium fluoride (18F) are 
approved in the EU.  Bone scan has been the most widely used method for evaluating bone 
metastases of prostate cancer.  Sodium fluoride (18F) show superior sensitivity to bone scanning 
but both are limited by a relatively low specificity (2015 EAU guideline on prostate cancer) and by 
the fact that they do not assess local nor extraosseous recurrence. 
Diagnostic performance of the imaging tests used in the work-up of prostate cancer varies depending on 
different clinical factors, particularly the PSA values. 
It is thought that PET radiopharmaceuticals that visualize the increased amino acid transport associated with 
tumour cells could be an alternative for use in prostate cancer imaging. Fluciclovine (18F) is such a PET 
radiopharmaceutical. 
About the product 
Fluciclovine  (18F)  is  the  International  Non-proprietary  Name  (INN)  for  the  active  substance  anti-1-amino-3-
fluorocyclobutane-1-carboxylic  acid,  labelled  with  fluorine  (18F).  Fluciclovine  (18F)  is  a  synthetic  amino  acid 
which  is  transported  across  mammalian  cell  membranes  by  amino  acid  transporters  such  as  LAT-1  and 
ASCT2.  The  activities  of  LAT-1  and  ASCT2  are  known  to  be  upregulated  in  prostate  cancer,  providing  a 
mechanism for the enhanced accumulation of fluciclovine (18F) in prostate cancer.  
As  an  amino  acid  analogue,  this  agent  is  preferentially  accumulated  by  prostate  tumour  cells  due  to  their 
increased  metabolic  needs;  however,  unlike  naturally  occuring  amino  acids,  this  non-natural  amino  acid-
analogue  radiopharmaceutical  is  not  metabolized.  Accordingly,  fluciclovine  (18F)  accumulates  in  prostate 
tumour cells and can potentially be used to image tumours using PET.  There is slow excretion to the bladder, 
therefore the visualization of the pelvis region is not obscured by bladder uptake. 
The included nuclide fluorine (18F) has a longer radioactive half-life (110 min) than carbon (11C) and shipping 
of a radiopharmaceutical labelled with fluorine (18F)  is both possible and practical as demonstrated with the 
well  established  tracer  fludeoxyglucose  (18F),  making  fluciclovine  (18F)  PET  imaging  potentially  available  to 
imaging centres all across the EU. 
Pharmacotherapeutic  group:  Other  diagnostic  radiopharmaceuticals  for  tumour  detection,  ATC  code: 
V09IX12. 
The following indication was proposed by the applicant: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 8/90 
  
  
Axumin is a radioactive diagnostic agent for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of adult men with 
suspected prostate cancer recurrence. Axumin PET imaging may identify sites of prostate cancer recurrence. 
Suspected  prostate  cancer  recurrence  is  based  upon  elevated  blood  prostate  specific  antigen  (PSA)  levels 
following initial therapy. 
The proposed activity is 370 MBq to be administered by slow intravenous injection. 
The following indication was agreed by the CHMP: 
“This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Axumin is indicated for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging to detect recurrence of prostate cancer 
in adult men with a suspected recurrence based on elevated blood prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels after 
primary curative treatment. 
For the limitations in the interpretation of a positive scan, see section 4.4 and 5.1.” 
A PET scan with fluciclovine (18F) should be administered by appropriately qualified healthcare professionals. 
Images should only be interpreted by readers trained in the interpretation of PET images with fluciclovine 
(18F). 
Posology 
Adults  
The recommended activity for an adult is 370 MBq fluciclovine (18F). 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This is a full application in accordance with article 8(3) of Directive 200l/83/EC as amended, for approval of a 
new active substance through the centralised procedure (according to Regulation (EC) No 726/2004).  
This radiopharmaceutical has been recently approved in the USA on May 2016. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as solution for injection containing 1,600 MBq/mL and 3,200 MBq/mL at the 
date and time of calibration of fluciclovine (18F) as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: sodium citrate, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, and water for injections.  
The  product  is  available  in  a  multidose  glass  vial  of  capacity  10  ml  sealed  with  a  rubber  closure  and 
aluminium overseal as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The  active  substance  in  Axumin  is  fluciclovine (18F),  a  small  chemical  molecule  labelled  with  fluorine-18,  a 
positron emitting radionuclide with a half-life around 110 minutes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 9/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  with  most  of  the  PET  radiopharmaceuticals  containing  18F,  due  to  the  short  physical  half-life  of  the 
radionuclide,  the  radiolabelled  active  substance  cannot  be  isolated  as  it  is  synthesized  in  situ  during  the 
manufacture  of  the  finished  product.  This  manufacturing  process is  a  continuous,  highly  automated  process 
that  uses  18F fluoride  and  a  non-radioactive  chemical  precursor  as  the  key  starting  material.  In  this 
application the chemical precursor for the synthesis of fluciclovine (18F) is called AH113487. 
The guideline on radiopharmaceuticals states that the chemical precursor should satisfy the requirements of 
the guideline Note for Guidance on Summary of Requirements for Active Substances in Part II of the Dossier 
(CHMP/QWP/297/97  Rev.1).  Accordingly,  the  application  includes  complete  information  for  the  chemical 
precursor  AH113487  as  well  additional  complete  information  for  the  non-isolated  (radiolabelled)  active 
substance fluciclovine (18F). 
Chemical precursor AH113487 
General information 
The  chemical  name  of  AH113487  is  ethyl  cis-1-(N-tert-butoxycarbonyl)  amino-3-[(trifluoromethyl)-
sulfonyloxy]  cyclobutanecarboxylate  corresponding  to  the  molecular  formula  C13H20F3NO7S  and  has  a 
relative molecular mass 391.36 g/mol and has the following structure: 
Figure 1: 
Structure of chemical precursor AH113487 
The chemical structure of the precursor AH113487 has been adequately demonstrated by elemental analysis, 
mass spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy (IR), 1H, 13C and 19F NMR spectroscopy, and X-ray crystallography. 
AH113487  is  a  white  to  off-white  powder  soluble  in  acetonitrile,  chloroform  and  dichloromethane;  sparingly 
soluble in cyclohexane and slightly soluble in pentane and hexane. It is not hygroscopic.  
The molecule can exist, in theory, in two isomer forms – syn or anti. The manufacturing process leads to the 
syn form.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
AH113487  is  synthesized  in  six  main  steps  using  well  defined  starting  materials  with  acceptable 
specifications. 
Adequate  in-process  controls  are  applied  during  the  synthesis.  The  specifications  and  control  methods  for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The  characterisation  of  the  active  substance  and  its  impurities  are  in  accordance  with  the  EU  guideline  on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 10/90 
  
  
 
 
The precursor is packaged in an amber glass Duran bottle with a teflon line screw cap. The glass conforms to 
Ph.  Eur.  Type  1.  Appropriate  testing  has  been  performed  to  demonstrate  that  the  container  is  suitable  to 
store AH113487 for the duration of the retest period. 
Specification 
The precursor specification includes tests for appearance, identification (IR), assay (HPLC), residual solvents 
(GC),  residual  water  (KF),  palladium  (ICP-OES),  related  substances  (1H  NMR,  19F  NMR)  and  microbial 
enumeration test (Ph. Eur.). 
Impurities  present  at  higher  than  the  qualification  threshold  according  to  ICH  Q3A  were  qualified  by 
toxicological and clinical studies and appropriate specifications have been set. 
The  analytical  methods  used  have  been  adequately  described  and  (non-compendial  methods)  appropriately 
validated  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guidelines.  Satisfactory  information  regarding  the  reference  standards 
used has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from 7 commercial scale batches of the active substance were provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on 3 batches of the precursor from the proposed manufacturer stored in Type 1 glass vials with 
a  FluroTec  coated  stopper,  which  are  similar  to  the  Type  1  glass  bottle  with  teflon  lined  cap  used  for  bulk 
storage  of  the  precursor.  Samples  of  two  batches  were  stored  for  11.5  and  36  months  respectively  under 
long  term  conditions  at  -20  °C/ambient  humidity,  for  11.5  and  24  months  respectively  under  accelerated 
conditions at 5 °C/ambient humidity, and for up 3 and 6 months under stress conditions at 25 °C/60% RH. 
One batch was stored for 24 months accelerated conditions at 5 °C/ambient humidity, and for up 6 months 
under stress conditions at 25 °C/60% RH according to the ICH Guideline. Photostability testing following the 
ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch. 
A study to determine the effect of exposure to moderate humidity has also been carried out. Samples of one 
batch  were  prepared  in  glass  vials.  Vials  without  caps  were  placed  in  a  stability  room  at  25  °C  and  60% 
relative  humidity  so  that  the  powder  was  directly  exposed  to  the  environment.  In  order  to  be  able  to 
differentiate between the effects of temperature and moisture, control samples were prepared in capped vials 
and the vials were placed in a desiccator in the stability room. Samples were removed for analysis after 1, 3 
and 7 days storage. 
The  following  parameters  were  tested:  appearance,  assay,  related  substances,  and  residual  water.  The 
analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
The  results  demonstrated that  the  precursor  manufactured  by  the proposed  supplier  is  sufficiently  stable  at 
the recommended storage temperature. 
Although  no  significant  effect  from  exposure  of  material  to  light  has  been  observed,  the  long  term  storage 
condition will include protection from light as this is accepted good practice. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 11/90 
  
  
 
Although,  the  precursor  is  not  hygroscopic,  prolonged  exposure  to  a  humid  atmosphere  does  lead  to  an 
increase  in  the  rate  of  degradation  with  trifluoromethanesulfonic  acid  being  the  main  impurity  formed.  The 
container closure system used for normal storage is adequate to control this degradation process. 
 Overall the stability results justify the proposed retest period of 24 months stored at 5 °C/ambient humidity 
and protected from light in the proposed container. 
Fluciclovine (18F) 
General information 
The  chemical  name  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  is  anti-1-amino-3-[18F]  fluorocyclobutane-1-carboxylic  acid 
18FNO2 and has a relative molecular mass 132.13 g/mol and has 
corresponding to the molecular formula C5H8
the following structure: 
Figure 2: 
Structure of active substance fluciclovine (18F) 
The chemical structure of the active substance has  been adequately demonstrated by infrared spectroscopy 
(IR), elemental analysis, 1H, 13C and 19F NMR spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, and X-ray crystallography.  
Fuciclovine (18F) is a white powder soluble in tetrahydrofuran, acetone, acetic acid, ethyl acetate and pyridine 
and slightly soluble in chloroform, ethanol, water, acetonitrile, methanol, triethyl amine. It is not hygroscopic.  
Fluciclovine is not chiral but does exist in two geometrical forms: the anti-form, where the fluorine atom is on 
the opposite site of the cyclobutane ring to the amino group, and the syn form where they are on the same 
side of the ring. The clinical relevant active substance is the anti-isomer. Presence of syn isomer is minimised 
in the production process of the chemical precursor. The synthesis of the anti-isomer is assured by the use of 
nearly pure syn-isomer of the cold precursor, which switches as a result of the Walden-inversion in the case 
of the nucleophilic substitution into the desired radiolabelled anti-isomer. 
Polymorphism has not been observed for the active substance. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The active substance fluciclovine (18F) is prepared from the precursor AH113487 by nucleophilic substitution 
of  a  triflate  group  by  18F-fluoride,  followed  by  two  deprotection  steps.  Due  to  the  short  half-life  of  the  18F-
fluorine radioisotope, each batch is prepared on the day of clinical use. 
The  active  substance  is  prepared  in  a  proprietary  automated  synthesiser  unit.  The  synthesiser  module  is 
computer-controlled. A fluid path for synthesis is provided in the form of a single use cassette (FASTlab). The 
cassette  contains  3  reagent  vials  and  3  solid  phase  cartridges.  Two  other  reagent  vials  are  supplied 
separately as they have a recommended storage temperature of 2-8°C.  These 2 vials are inserted into the 
cassette on the day of production. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 12/90 
  
  
 
Fluciclovine (18F) is produced in a continuous operation from the precursor AH113487. Due to the radioactive 
nature of the process, and the short half-life of [18F] fluorine, intermediates are not isolated and there is no 
opportunity for operator intervention or in-process testing. Control of the synthesis of fluciclovine (18F) from 
the  precursor  is  achieved  through  the  automated  synthesis  platform,  which  is  pre-programmed  with 
synthesis parameters optimised for the process. On-board detectors record transfers of radioactivity through 
the  fluid  path  at  critical  points  and  monitor  temperature  and  pressure  as  appropriate  so  that  the  operator 
may track the progress of the synthesis. 
The active substance fluciclovine (18F) progresses immediately to purification, formulation and dispensing as 
the  finished  product  within  a  single,  continuous  operation.  Validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  for 
fluciclovine (18F) is therefore described as part of finished product validation. 
The  characterisation  of  the  active  substance  is  in  accordance  with  the  EU  guideline  on  chemistry  of  new 
active substances. 
As  mentioned,  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product  takes  place  in  a  single, 
continuous process. The active substance is not isolated at any point. Therefore, relevant information about 
impurities is given only for the finished product. 
For the same reason, information for the container closure system is provided only for the finished product. 
Specification 
As the manufacture of the active substance and finished product takes place in a single, continuous process, 
and the active substance is not isolated in any point the specification of the active substance is the same as 
the finished product.  
Stability 
For the same reason as above, all information on stability is provided for the finished product. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Axumin  is  formulated  as  a  sterile  solution  for  injection  containing  3,200  or  1,600  MBq  fluciclovine  (18F)  per 
millilitre  at  calibration  date  and  time.  Calibration date  and time is  equal  to the  end of  synthesis  (EOS) date 
and  time.  The  EOS  time  is  the  time  that  synthesis,  purification  and  formulation  of  the  product  is  complete 
and  is  recorded  in  the  batch  record.  Axumin  is  presented  in  a  multi-dose  vial  of  capacity  10  ml  containing 
between 1 and 10 ml of product. The maximum injection volume of undiluted product is 5 ml. The content of 
fluciclovine is not more than 2 μg/ml. The pH of the solution is between 3.5 and 6.0. 
The  active  substance,  fluciclovine (18F)  is  produced  as  an  aqueous  solution  in  the  automated  synthesis 
process.  It  is  not  isolated  or  tested  following  synthesis  but  is  directly  formulated  into  the  finished  product. 
The  active  substance  has  been  proven  to  be  stable  over  a  wide  range  of  radioactive  concentrations  in  the 
chosen finished product formulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 13/90 
  
  
The  finished  product  contains  hydrochloric  acid  (from  the  active  substance  synthesis  process)  and  sodium 
hydroxide (for pH adjustment) in sodium citrate buffer.  
All  excipients  are  well  known  pharmaceutical  ingredients  and  their  quality  is  compliant  with  Ph.  Eur. 
standards.  There  are  no  novel  excipients  used  in  the  finished  product  formulation.  The  list  of  excipients  is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
Information  is  presented  on  formulations  used  for  both  clinical  and  pre-clinical  studies.  A  summary  and 
comparison  of  the  manufacturing  process,  composition  and  quality  profile  of  different  formulations  is 
presented and it is justified that the differences in the formulations used during development and proposed 
for manufacture are not relevant to safety and efficacy. 
The manufacturing process development covers the manufacturing process steps related to purification of the 
radioactive  active  substance  and  formulation  into  the  finished  product  dispensing  solution  suitable  for 
sterilising filtration. 
The  pH  of  the  product  is  controlled  within  the  range  of  3.5  to  6.0  by  the  inclusion  of  citrate  buffer  in  the 
formulation. This pH range is relatively low for an injectable product however considerable clinical experience 
with  the  product  has  not  indicated  a  significant  safety  concern  related  to  this low  pH.  Osmolality  measured 
using  a  freezing  point  osmometer  is  around  520  mOsm/kg.For  clinical  trials  the  strength  (radioactive 
concentration) of the finished product varied from batch to batch depending on the number of doses required 
and planned injection schedule. 
For  marketed  product  two  fixed  strengths  are  proposed  –  1,600  and  3,200  MBq/ml.  Two  processes  are 
proposed to achieve the fixed strength: 
1.  Control  of  the  amount  of  radioactivity  entering  the  synthesis  process  in  order  that  the  solution  of 
fluciclovine (18F) obtained at the end of the FASTlab process has the correct radioactive concentration. 
2. Variable amount of radioactivity for synthesis and dilution of the FASTlab solution to the correct radioactive 
concentration. 
Process validation data is presented for both strengths using the first method and for 1,600 MBq/ml strength 
for the second method. 
It  is  proposed  to  manufacture  the  product  by  sterile  filtration  although  there  is  some  evidence  that  the 
product would be stable to the effects of steam sterilisation. This has been justified on the basis that sterile 
filtration  is  an  established  and  accepted  manufacturing  process  for  short-lived  PET  radiopharmaceuticals, 
even  when  they  are  stable  to  autoclaving.  Fluciclovine  (18F)  solution  for  injection  will  be  made  and  used 
within a very short period of time, with a maximum shelf life of 10 hours, meaning that there is a very low 
risk  of  sterility  issues.  Therefore,  the  marketed  product  will  be  manufactured  using  aseptic  processing  with 
sterile filtration rather than terminal sterilisation by autoclaving. This was considered satisfactory. 
The primary packaging is Type 1 glass vial, chlorobutyl rubber closure and aluminium overseal. The material 
complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. Stability studies have been carried out which demonstrate that 
the  quality  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  solution  for  injection  is  maintained  over  the  maximum  shelf  life  of  10  hours 
after  end  of  synthesis.  The  compatibility  of  the  finished  product  with  the  container  closure  system  has  also 
been  investigated  through  a  study  of  leachables  arising  from  the  manufacturing  process.  It  was  considered 
that the choice of the container is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 14/90 
  
  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Axumin is manufactured in two manufacturing sites.  
Steps  up  to  formation  of  the  active  substance  by  acid  deprotection  of  the  labelled  intermediate  are 
considered  in  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance  section.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished 
product  consists  of  5  main  steps.  The  firsts  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  are 
conducted in the same automated synthesis module FASTlab and then the concentrated solution obtained at 
the  end  of  the  synthesis  is  transferred  to  a  dilution/dispenser  module  where  it  is  diluted  to  the  nominal 
strength (if needed), sterilised by filtration and aseptically dispensed into the pre-sterilised closed vials (two 
different methods are used depending on the manufacturer: Method 1 and Method 2); filling of the vials by 
puncturing  the  rubber  stoppers  which  is  considered  a  non-standard  procedure  for  sterile  solutions  but  is 
commonly used and has been authorised in recent procedures for very short lived radiopharmaceuticals. 
The suitability of the dispensing fluid path system working in cleanroom class C for Method 1 used in the 
sterilisation by filtration and aseptically dispensing into the pre-sterilised closed vials was discussed in detail. 
The issue was that only a fully closed system can be operated in a cleanroom class C. However doubts 
whether the dispensing fluid path system could be considered a closed system were raised, especially in view 
to the demount of the filled product vials from the dispensing fluid path. Based on the assurance from a local 
competent GMP-authority responsible for the manufacturing site using the dispensing fluid path system that 
the local manufacturing process is considered as a closed procedure (for which clean room class C is 
sufficient). It was agreed that the use of the dispensing fluid path system in a clean room class C can be 
accepted.  A risk assessment for the risk of microbiological product contamination using manufacturing 
Method 1 with the dispensing fluid path device installed in cleanroom class “C” without final sterilization by 
heat of the finished product vials has been provided and it has been considered satisfactory. 
Process  validation  has  been  conducted  at  both  manufacturing  sites  and  included  media  fill  studies,  pre-
sterilisation  bioburden  (in  this  kind  of  products  bioburden  before  the  sterile  filtration  cannot  be  done  in 
routine production batches), qualification of sterilising filters and manufacturing of six batches at one of the 
manufacturing sites and three batches in the other one. 
Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies.  It  has  been 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality 
in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance, 
identification (radiochemical identification (TLC, IC), radionuclide identity by gamma spectroscopy (Ph. Eur.), 
half-life determination (Ph. Eur.)), assay (radioactive concentration at end of synthesis (Ph. Eur.)), chemical 
purity  tests  (IC,  GC,  and  spot test), physical  measurement  (pH  (Ph.  Eur.)),  radiochemical  purity  (thin  layer 
chromatography, IC), microbiological tests (Ph.Eur.), and periodic quality indicator test (Ph. Eur.). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for identity of testing 
fluciclovine (18F), chemical purity, and residual solvents has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 12 commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 15/90 
  
  
Stability of the product 
Stability data of 3 commercial batches per strength from the two manufacturers of finished product stored at 
25 ±2 °C were provided. Each batch was tested immediately after end of synthesis and then 10 hours later. 
The  batches  are  identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were  packed  in  the  primary  packaging 
proposed for marketing. All batches were stored upright during the shelf life which reflects the normal usage 
of the product. Samples were tested for appearance, content of fluciclovine and related substances, pH, and 
radiochemical purity. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
Supportive  stability  data  was  provided  for  three  batches  manufactured  in  a  third  manufacturing  site.  The 
batches were stored at a range of temperatures from 5 °C to 50 °C. Each batch was tested immediately after 
end  of  synthesis  and  then  8  hours  later.  The  synthesis  process  was  representative  of  marketed  product 
however the radioactive concentration was not fixed to a specific strength. The batches were only tested for 
the key parameter of radiochemical purity (using the thin layer chromatography method). 
No change in the appearance of the finished product at end of shelf life was observed for any batch tested. 
Storage  temperature  and  container  closure  system  have  no  impact  in  stability.  All  batches  met  the 
acceptance  criteria  for  radiochemical  purity  (RCP)  at  the  end  of  shelf  life.  The  data  demonstrated  that  the 
RCP will remain within the acceptance criteria over the shelf life of the product and that no specific control of 
storage temperature is required. 
The stability of Axumin was demonstrated for up to 8 hours for the lower strength of 1,600 MBq and for 10 
hours for the higher strength of 3,200 MBq in view of the radiochemical and radiophysical stability. However 
the  difference  between  8  and  10  hours  is  only  a  result  of  the  radioactive  decay  because  in  the  case  of  the 
lower strength after 8 hours not enough fluciclovine (18F) is left for one dose. 
Multi-dose  injections  without  a  microbiological  preservative  demand  a  strict  aseptic  handling  during 
withdrawal, because otherwise the risk of microbiological contamination cannot be excluded. The short shelf 
life  of  not  more  than  10  hours  and  the  fact  that  Axumin  as  aqueous  solution  does  not  contain  in  its 
composition  elements  which  support  bacterial  grow  help  to  preserve  product  sterility  but  they  cannot 
guarantee it. Therefore, the following information highlighting to the user their responsibility in respect of the 
microbiological stability after first opening is included to the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
"Chemical  and  physical  in-use  stability  has  been  demonstrated  for  the  1600  MBq/mL  and  for  the  3200 
MBq/mL strengths for 8 hours and 10 hours, respectively.  
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening / dose withdrawal / dilution precludes the 
risk of microbiological contamination, the product should be used immediately.  If not used immediately, in-
use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user.” 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 8 hours from the time of calibration for the 1,600 
MBq/ml  strength  and  10  hours  from  the  time  of  calibration  for  the  3,200  MBq/ml  strength  as  stated  in  the 
SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 16/90 
  
  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance, precursor and finished 
product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The radiolabelled active substance cannot be isolated 
as it is synthesized in situ during the manufacture of the finished product. The manufacturing process is a 
continuous, highly automated process that uses 18F fluoride and a non-radioactive chemical precursor to 
produce fluciclovine (18F). As required by the guideline on radiopharmaceuticals the non radioactive “chemical 
precursor” for the synthesis of PET radiopharmaceuticals complies with the Note for Guidance on Summary of 
Requirements for Active Substances in Part II of the Dossier (CHMP/QWP/297/97 Rev. 1). The results of tests 
carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
To support the non-clinical aspects of the application, the applicant submitted data from the literature and 
non-clinical studies, which were generally performed according to GLP. Some of the studies were performed 
using the finished product formulation proposed for commercial manufacture. The species used for the in vivo 
investigation for PK and PD were mice, rat, doga and monkey. Toxicity studies were conducted in rats, dogs 
and monkey species. The influence of the major fluciclovine-related substance OHACBC on the 
pharmacodynamic activity and or the uptake of fluciclovine was investigated in human cancer cell lines (in-
vitro) and in monkey, dog and rat (in-vivo). 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In-vitro studies 
Study P060612: Uptake of FACBC and FDG by Human Prostate Cell Lines.9 
9 Okudaira H, Shikano N, Nishii R, Miyagi T, Yoshimoto M, Kobayashi M, Ohe K, Nakanishi T, Tamai I, Namiki M, Kawai K. 
Putative Transport Mechanism and Intracellular Fate of Trans-1- Amino-3-18F-Fluorocyclobutanecarboxylic Acid in Human 
Prostate Cancer. J Nucl Med. 2011; 52: 822-829. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 17/90 
  
  
                                                
The aim of the study was to measure fluciclovine (anti-FACBC) and FDG uptake using various human prostate 
adenocarcinoma cell lines (DU145, PC-3, MDA PCa 2b, LNCaP, and 22Rv1) and normal prostate epithelial 
cells (PrEC) and to compare the results between cell types and test substances. 14C-labelled (not 18F-labelled) 
substances were used in this study. 
The amount of [14C]FDG uptake in many cell lines tended to increase with the incubation time, as did that of 
[14C]fluciclovine in the normal epithelial cell line PrEC, while the amount of [14C]fluciclovine uptake in 
prostate cancer cells was already high at the 5-minute incubation time point and tended to increase slightly 
after the 15-minute incubation time point (LNCaP, PrEC). Also, the uptake amount of [14C]fluciclovine tended 
to reach the maximum at 5 to 30 minutes before beginning to decrease (DU145, PC-3, 22Rv I, MDA PCa 2b; 
Figure 2.1.1). 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 18/90 
  
  
Figure 3: 
Uptake of [14C]-fluciclovine (here: anti-[14C]FACBC) and [14C]-FDG in human 
prostate adenocarcinoma cells and normal prostate epithelial cells 
Significantly different from PrEC (Aspin-Welch's test or Student's t-test , *: p<0.05, ***: p<0.001) 
Transporter mechanism for the update of fluciclovine 
In order to further evaluate the involvement of the system ASC and system A amino acid transporters in the 
uptake  of  fluciclovine  by  PCa  cells,  Okudaira  and  colleagues  (2011)  silenced  ASCT2  and  SNAT2  (sodium-
coupled  neutral  amino  acid  transporter  2)  expression  in  DU145  cells  using  gene  specific  siRNA.  AAT  mRNA 
was quantified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 19/90 
  
  
 
 
 
                 A                                                                          B 
**P<0.01 
Figure 4: 
Effects of ASCT2 or SNAT2 knock-down on [14C]-fluciclovine transport in the DU145 
cell line 
ASCT2  and  SNAT2  expression  was  effectively  silenced  using  the  appropriate  siRNA  (Figure  2.1.8A):  [14C]-
fluciclovine uptake was significantly decreased in the presence of 2 different ASCT2-specific siRNAs (58% and 
69% compared to controls) and to a lesser extent, in SNAT2 knock-down cells (83% of controls) (black bars 
in Figure 2.1.8B). 
In-vivo studies 
Study Report K36-EF001: Assessment of N MK36 Accumulation in Tumor (DU 145) 
Fluciclovine  distribution  was  investigated  in  male  nude  mice  bearing  subcutaneously  implanted  human 
prostatic  carcinoma  cells  (DU145).  Tumour–to–muscle,  tumour–to–blood  and  tumour–  to–urine  ratios  were 
calculated. Results are shown in the Table below. 
Table 1: 
Tumour-tissue accumulation ratios of fluciclovine (18F) in mice bearing 
subcutaneously implanted human prostatic carcinoma cells (DU145) 
Time 
5 mins  
30 mins 
120 mins 
Ratio (% ID/g) 
Mean + SD 
Mean + SD 
Mean + SD 
Tumour: blood 
Tumour: muscle 
Tumour: urine 
2.06 +0.83 
4.35 +1.48 
5.76 +9.76 
2.51 +0.34 
2.46 +0.14 
0.31 +0.19 
2.48 +0.62 
1.73 +0.41 
0.28 +0.18 
The  tumour–to–blood  ratio  increased  from  2.06  to  2.51  %  ID/g  within  the  first  30  minutes  after 
administration.  No  clear  change  was  observed  thereafter.  In  contrast,  the  tumour–to–muscle  ratio  was 
already maximal after 5 minutes, declining with time to 1.73 % ID/g after 120 minutes.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 20/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
In vivo study in tumour bearing rats: Oka S, Hattori R, Kurosaki F, Toyama M, Williams LA, Yu W, 
Votaw JR, Yoshida Y, Goodman MM, Ito O. (2007) A preliminary study of anti-1-amino-3-18f-
fluorocyclobutyl-1- carboxylic acid for the detection of prostate cancer. 
The distribution of fluciclovine in tumour tissue compared with normal tissues was investigated in tumor 
bearing male rats. Athymic F344 rats were inoculated with human prostate cancer cells (DU145) into the 
ventral prostate (OPCT rat model) and the biodistribution of fluciclovine (18F) was determined 3-4 weeks 
later.  
Fluciclovine (18F) or [18F]-FDG (7.4 MBq) was administered i.v. to anaesthetized F344 nude rats inoculated 
with human prostate cancer cells (DU145). Tissue distribution was determined after 15 and 60 minutes (n=3 
animals per group/time-point) by counting of the radioactive decay in the respective tissues. Tissue and body 
fluids were weighed. For each measurement sample the radioactivity distribution (% ID) was determined, 
adjusted for weight (% ID/g) and the tumour–to–tissue ratio calculated. The tumour–to–tissue ratio for a 
selection of normal tissues (lymph node, bone, muscle, brain and urine) is presented in the table below. 
Table 2: 
Tumour-tissue accumulation of fluciclovine (18F) and [18F]-FDG in the OPCT rat 
model 
Tissue 
Lymphe nodes 
Bone 
Muscle 
Brain 
%ID/g 
Urinary 
bladder 
%ID/mm3 
Tracer/ 
Time 
FDG  Fluci 
FDG 
Fluci 
FDG 
Fluci 
FDG 
Fluci 
FDG 
Fluci 
15 min 
60 min 
1.3
1.5
3.32 
4.13 
1.9
1.8
2.4
2.8
5.1
7.1
5.1
3.2
0.5
0.4
8.5
4.1
0.0
0.0
0.7
0.5
Fluci = fluciclovine; ID = injected dose; LN = lymph nodes 
To  assess  the  potential  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  to  differentiate  between  PCa  tissue  and  lymphadenitis  and  PCa 
and  benign  prostatic  hyperplasia  (BPH),  the  uptake  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  and  [18F]-FDG  were  compared,  as 
outlined  above,  in  rat  models  of  BPH  and  dual  PCa  and  inflammation  (DPCI).  Dual  prostate  cancer  and 
inflammation  was  induced  in  male  Copenhagen  rats  (n=3)  inoculated  with  MLLB2  cells  (malignant  rat 
prostate tumor cell line) and dosed with streptozotocin. Results are presented in the figures below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 21/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*p < 0.01 
Figure 5: 
Comparison of uptake of anti-18F-FABC and 18F-FDG at 60 min after injection into 
normal popliteal lymph node (LN, intact), popliteal lymphadenitis (LN, 
inflammation) and subcutaneous PCa 
Studies with OHACBC 
The influence of the major fluciclovine related substance OHACBC on pharmacodynamic activity and/or the 
uptake of fluciclovine was investigated in-vitro in human cancer cell lines and in in-vivo in monkey, dog and 
rat. Based on published and own data the SW1088 cell line was used, since in this cell line [14C]-fluciclovine 
uptake was highest compared to the other cell lines tested. In SW 1088 cells equal amounts of [14C]-
fluciclovine and [14C]-OHABC result in an increased accumulation of [14C]-fluciclovine within the cells 
compared to [14C]-OHACBC. In comparison with [14C]L-Methionine uptake, it was shown that [14C]-
fluciclovine uptake is very low compared to the uptake of an essential amino acid and the [14C]-OHABC 
uptake appears to be non-existent. Furthermore, the ability of [14C]-OHACBC to inhibit the cellular uptake of 
[14C]-fluciclovine was investigated in DU 145 cells. The inhibitory effect of OHACBC was investigated by 
determination of the IC50, which was found to be 850 µM.10 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Study No P070305: To investigate potential secondary pharmacological effects of fluciclovine  
MDR1, MRP4 and BRCP 
To assess the potential for fluciclovine to act as a substrate for the ABC transporters MDR1 and BCRP, [14C]-
fluciclovine uptake was investigated at 2, 5 and 10 minutes, with an additional 1- minute time-point for BCRP 
(n=3 per time-point). The uptake of [14C]-fluciclovine by the MDR1 vesicles was not considered significantly 
different from the negative control at all 3 time-points, with an MDR1-mediated uptake value of 1.1 pmol/mg 
protein at 2 minutes. By comparison MDR1- mediated uptake of the standard radiolabelled tracer [3H]-
verapamil was 15.3 pmol/mg protein at 2 minutes. 
Uptake of [14C]-fluciclovine by BCRP vesicles was assessed in the same manner and was already maximal by 
1 minute, although the uptake in negative control vesicles was higher at all time-points. Km for [14C]-
10 Ono M, Oka, S, Okudaira H, Schuster DM, Goodman MM, Kawai K, Shirakami, Y. Comparative evaluation of transport 
mechanisms of trans-1-amino-3-[¹⁸F]fluorocyclobutanecarboxylic acid and L-[methyl-¹¹C]methionine in human glioma cell 
lines. [2013] 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 22/90 
  
  
 
 
                                                
fluciclovine binding was calculated as 7.2 ± 1.3 mM and 1.3 ± 0.6 mM for control and BCRP vesicles, 
respectively. Fluciclovine inhibited the binding of digoxin to MDR1 in a concentration-dependent manner with 
an IC50 value of 3.3 mM. In the case of BCRP, fluciclovine had no effect on the uptake of E3S. 
The binding of fluciclovine to the MRP4 transporter was investigated by conducting a [14C]- fluciclovine 
uptake assay at 2, 5 and 10 minutes (n=3 per time-point). MRP4-mediated uptake was 2.8 and 4.1 pmol/mg 
protein at 2 and 5 minutes, respectively. In comparison to the MRP4-mediated uptake of [3H]- estradiol-17β-
D-glucuronide (E2- 17βG) was calculated as 314.5 pmol/mg protein. 
OAT1, OAT3, OCT2 and OATP1B1 
To determine whether fluciclovine is a substrate for the renal uptake transporters OAT1, OAT3 and OCT2, 
[14C]-fluciclovine (10 μM) uptake was investigated at 2 - 60 minutes (n=3 at each time-point). Competitive 
binding data obtained with [3H]-PAH (1 μM) in the presence of increasing concentrations of unlabeled 
fluciclovine (1 - 5 mM) showed that fluciclovine inhibited the binding of PAH to OAT1 in a concentration-
dependent manner with an IC50 of 4.0 mM (Figure 2.2.1, Panel B). Each bar represents the mean±SD (n=3). 
For OAT3 and OCT2, [14C]-fluciclovine (10 μM) uptake was comparable between the transfected cells and the 
negative control at shorter incubation periods (2 – 10 minutes), peaked at 15 minutes (11.74 ± 0.34, 9.14 ± 
0.20 and 9.80 ± 0.31 nmol/mg protein for negative control, OAT3 and OCT2 respectively), and declined at a 
faster rate in the transfected cells thereafter. The binding affinity of fluciclovine binding to these drug 
transporters was investigated and Km values were calculated (values were fitted by using a Michaelis-Menten 
Plot) as 340 ± 37 μM, 374 ± 9 μM and 275 ± 30 μM for negative control, OAT3 and OCT2, respectively. 
In order to investigate whether fluciclovine is a substrate for the hepatic uptake SLC transporter OATP1B1 
radiolabelled tracer uptake assays were performed using the transfected cell line HEK/OATP1B1 and mock 
transfected cells as before (n=3 per time-point). [14C]-Fluciclovine uptake was comparable between the 
transfected cells and negative control at all time-points; at 15 minutes 9.49 ± 0.15 and 11.00 ± 0.09 
nmol/mg protein for OATP1B1 and negative control, respectively.  
Study AL-4114-G: Investigation Of The Binding Properties Of ACBC, anti-FACBC And anti-OHACBC 
To Various Receptors  
A very low level of inhibition of 10µM ligand binding to the adrenergic, dopamine, GABA and glycine receptors 
was observed (0.00% – 5.66%) for 3mM fluciclovine. Differing levels of inhibition of binding to specific ligand 
binding sites on the glutamate receptor were observed, ranging from 6.29% to 67.51% for the NMDA glycine 
binding site. Similarly for OHACBC, ligand binding inhibition for the adrenergic, dopamine, GABA and glycine 
receptors ranged from 0.00% to 13.36%, whilst the maximal inhibitory effect on the glutamate receptor was 
27.82% for the NMDA agonist binding site.  
Safety pharmacology programme 
Cardiovascular System 
In vitro-studies 
Two in vitro studies were performed to evaluate the effects of fluciclovine (anti-FACBC) and its major related 
substance OHACBC on hERG channel currents (Studies: P070305 and 081010.DPY). Both tests used human 
embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells for stable hERG channel expression. No significant effects on hERG 
current were observed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 23/90 
  
  
In vivo studies 
Cardiovascular system 
Three separate in vivo studies in telemetered dogs (Studies 000726, 2789-020 and combined Cardiovascular 
and  Pulmonary  study  G465536A),were  performed  to  evaluate  potential  cardiotoxic  effects  of  fluciclovine  at 
intravenous dosages up to 1000 μg/kg. No significant effects on any parameter measured were observed. 
Respiratory system  
Beside study G465536, mentioned above, two rat studies (Studies 000626 and 2789-019) were performed to 
evaluate effects of fluciclovine on the respiratory system. No significant findings were observed. 
Central nervous system 
To  evaluate  effects  of  fluciclovine  on  the  CNS  two  studies  in  the  rat  (Studies  000526  and  2789-021)  were 
performed. A NOAEL of fluciclovine on the CNS in rats was determined as 1000 μg/kg. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The applicant did not submit studies on pharmacodynamic drug interactions (see non-clinical discussion).  
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  in-vitro  and  in  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys  following  single  dose 
intravenous application of the test substance.  
Absorption  
The applicant did not present studies on absorption (see non-clinical discussion). 
Distribution 
Rat 
After single intravenous administration of 14C-OHACBC to a male rat at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg, the 
radioactivity concentrations in the eyeball, cerebellum, cerebrum and fat were lower than those in the plasma 
(72.8 ng eq./mL), and the radioactivity concentrations in the other tissues were comparable or higher than 
those in the plasma, being 0.91 to 12.69 times those in the plasma at 1 h after administration. At 336 h after 
administration, radioactivity in the whole body decreased and the radioactivity concentration in tissue was 
comparable or higher than that in the plasma. The percentage distributions of radioactivity in the skeletal 
muscle, skin and the other tissues were 7.95% of the dose, 2.35% and 1% or less, respectively. 
Study No. K36-PD0002 Distribution and Excretion Following Single Intravenous Administration of 
Fluciclovine (18F) in Rats 
Tissue distribution of fluciclovine (18F) after single dose administration was investigated in male and female 
rats. Each rat (n=3/ sex and timepoint) was intravenously administered with 0.2 mL of test article containing 
18.5 MBq of fluciclovine (18F) and tissue distribution was determined with PET in the respective tissue 
samples at the following time points: 5 min, 30 min, 1 hr, 3 hr, 6 hr, 16 hr, 168, and 336 hr. 
For both male and female rats, the radioactivity distribution ratio was found to be the highest in muscle at all 
the time points examined. The distribution ratio was also high in skin, blood, liver, and small intestine 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 24/90 
  
  
compared with other organs and tissues. Considering the radioactivity distribution ratio per unit weight, the 
highest uptake was seen in the pancreas for both male and female rats at all time points examined. Uptake 
per unit weight was also greater than 1% ID/g in thymus gland, kidney, and bone marrow at many of the 
examined time points. The radioactivity distribution ratios per unit weight of muscle, skin, blood, liver, and 
small intestine, in which radioactivity distribution ratio was found to be high compared with the other organs 
and tissues, were not higher than the radioactivity distribution ratios per unit weight of other organs and 
tissues. Thus, the relatively high radioactivity distribution ratios observed in those organs and tissues are 
likely a result of high organ or tissue to body weight ratios rather than a significant difference in specific 
tissue retention. 
Although, some differences between between both sexes can be seen the overall pattern of distribution is 
similar in both males and females. Uptake in the testes and ovaries was relatively low (maximum of 0.65% 
ID seen in testes at 3 hours reducing to 0.53% ID by 16 hours, ovaries maximum was 0.16% ID after 5 
minutes and was not detected at 16 hours). Retention in the uterus was also low (0.59% ID at 5 minutes 
dropping to 0.13% ID at 16 hours). 
Study  No.  P070415:  Distribution,  Excretion  and  Metabolism  after  Single  Intravenous 
Administration of [14C]Fluciclovine to Rats 
Tissue distribution of fluciclovine (14C) after single dose administration was investigated in male and female 
rats. Each rat (n=3/ sex and timepoint) was intravenously administered with 1 mL/kg of test article 
containing 332 kBq/kg of fluciclovine (14C) and tissue distribution was determined by liquid scintillation 
counting of the respective tissue samples at the following time points: 168, and 336 hr. 
In male rats, the radioactivity distribution ratio per tissue weight 168 hours after administration was highest 
in the pancreas, followed by the bone marrow, thymus, kidney, spleen, urinary bladder and heart. At 336 
hours after the administration, the radioactivity distribution ratio per tissue weight was the highest in the 
pancreas, followed by the urinary bladder, skin, eyeball, submaxillary gland, muscle, small intestine, 
mesenteric lymph node, bone, stomach, prostate, large intestine and harderian gland. No radioactivity was 
detected in other tissues.  
In female rats, the radioactivity distribution ratio per tissue weight 168 hours after administration was 
highest in the pancreas followed by the stomach, uterus, eyeball, muscle and skin. At 336 hours after the 
administration, no radioactivity was detected in any tissues. 
Study  No.  K36-PD0003:  Metabolite  Analysis,  Distribution  in  Blood  Cells,  and  Plasma  Protein 
Binding Following Administration of Fluciclovine (18F) to Rats 
Distribution into blood cells and plasma protein binding was determined in male and female rats. Each rat 
(n=3/sex and timepoint) was intravenously administered with 0.2 mL of test article containing 18.5 MBq of 
fluciclovine (18F). Blood samples were taken at the following time points: 5 min, 1 hr and 3 hrs. Distribution 
into blood cells and plasma protein binding was determined by gamma counting followed by calculation of the 
distribution within the respective share. 
About 30% of total radioactivity distributed into blood cells at all time points investigated. No sex differences 
were noticed. No plasma binding was detected. 
Dog 
After single intravenous administration of 14C-OHACBC to a male dog at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg, the 
radioactivity concentrations in the thigh bone and eyeball were lower than those in the plasma (2.1 ng 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 25/90 
  
  
eq./mL), and the radioactivity concentrations in the other tissues were comparable or higher than those in 
the plasma, being 1.05 to 10.57 times those in the plasma at 336 h after administration. The percentage 
distributions of radioactivity in the skeletal muscle and the other tissues were 2.55% of the dose and 0.5% or 
less, respectively. 
Monkey 
Table 3: 
Results of Study No. AE-5775 
Study ID 
Species  N 
Dose 
Route 
C0 
AUC 
AE-5775 
AE-5775 
Rat 
C. 
monkey 
1 
1 
(mg/kg) 
(ng eq./ml) 
(µg eq. 
h/ml) 
0.15 
I.V. 
272.6 
2.93 
0.15 
I.V. 
488.1 
2.29 
Study ID  Species 
N 
Dose 
Route 
t½, el 
Vd 
Clt 
(mg/kg) 
(hrs) 
(L/Kg) 
(ml/hrs/kg) 
AE-5775  Rat 
1 
0.15 
I.V. 
AE-5775  C. monkey 
1 
0.15 
I.V. 
6.5 (I) 
74 (II) 
3.6 (I) 
68 (II) 
4.89 
51.2 
4.19 
65.4 
After single intravenous administration of 14C-OHACBC to a male monkey at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg, the 
radioactivity concentrations in the thigh bone and eyeball were lower than those in the plasma (2.4 ng 
eq./mL), being 0.58 and 0.25 times those in the plasma, respectively, and the radioactivity concentrations in 
the other tissues were comparable or higher than those in the plasma, being 1.04 to 13.88 times those in the 
plasma at 168 h after administration. The percentage distributions of radioactivity in the fat, skeletal muscle 
and the other tissues were 1.76% of the dose, 0.86% and 0.3% or less, respectively. 
Study No. P070417: Radioactivity Concentrations in Blood and Excretion after Single Intravenous 
Administration of [14C]Fluciclovine to Monkeys 
Cynomolgus monkeys received 332 KBq/kg [14C] fluciclovine via intravenous injection. Blood samples were 
collected at the following time points: 5, 15, 30 minutes and 1, 3, 6, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 and 240 hours 
after the administration. The radioactivity in the blood was measured using liquid scintillation counting. The 
following parameters were obtained: 
Table 4: 
Results obtained in study P070417 
Study ID  Species  N 
Dose 
Route 
t½, el 
C5min 
(% ID/g) 
AUC 
(%IDh/g) 
P070417 
C. 
monkeys 
3 
332 
KBq/Kg 
I.V. 
35.4 
0.042 
0.505 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 26/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
14C-
fluciclovine 
Metabolism 
Study  No.  K36-PD0003:  Metabolite  Analysis,  Distribution  in  Blood  Cells,  and  Plasma  Protein 
Binding Following Administration of Fluciclovine (18F) to Rats 
Plasma  and  urinary  metabolites  were  analysed  in  male  and  female  rats.  Each  rat  (n=3/sex  and  timepoint) 
was  intravenously  administered  with  0.2  mL  of  test  article  containing  18.5  MBq  of  fluciclovine  (18F).  Blood 
and urine samples were taken at the following time points: 5 min, 1 hr and 3 hrs. The results are presented 
in Table 5 and Table 6. 
Table 5: 
Ratios of peaks in Plasma 
Ratios of Peaks in RLG of Sample for Plasma Metabolite Analysis (Male) (%) 
5 minutes after administration 1 hour after administration 3 hours after administration 
Peak 
Mean ±SD 
Mean±SD 
Mean±SD 
0.01± 0.00 
0.04±0.01 
UK3 
UK4 
0.04± 0.01 
FACBC* 6.00± 1.18 
Other** 0.02± 0.00 
0.02± 0.00 
0.02± 0.00 
2.78± 0.15 
0.01± 0.00 
2.65±0.10 
0.02± 0.00 
Ratios of Peaks in RLG of Sample for Plasma Metabolite Analysis (Female) (%ID) 
5 minutes after 
3 hours after administration 
1 hour after 
Peak 
Mean ± SD 
UK1 
0.01± 0.00 
UK3 
0.04± 0.01 
0.04± 0.00 
UK4 
FACBC* 5.78± 0.44 
Other** 0.01 ± 0.00 
Mean ±SD 
Mean ± SD 
0.02± 0.00 
0.01± 0.00 
2.91± 0.25 
0.01± 0.00 
2.74± 0.38 
0.01 0.00 
Table 6: 
Ratios of peaks in urine after 6 hrs of collection 
Ratios of Peaks in RLG of Sample for Plasma 
Metabolite Analysis (%ID) 
Peak 
UK1 
UK3 
UK4 
FACBC* 
UK6 
UK7 
UK8 
Other** 
Male 
Mean ± SD 
0.03± 0.00 
0.02± 0.00 
0.07± 0.07 
3.54± 0.55 
0.04± 0.01 
0.01± 0.00 
0.01± 0.00 
0.02± 0.00 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Female 
Mean ±SD 
0.03±0.01 
0.05±0.01 
0.05±0.08 
13.26±5.11 
0.05±0.00 
0.01±0.00 
0.02±0.01 
Page 27/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excretion 
Excretion  of  fluciclovine  was  investigated  in  male  and  female  rats  and  male  Cynomolgus  monkeys.  In  both 
species the main route of excretion was urinary. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity testing of fluciclovine was carried out in two rat (400127, 400326) and a dog (600126) 
study.  No  toxicokinetic  measurements  were  performed  concomitantly.  A  full  examination  including  general 
signs,  mortality,  body  weight,  food  consumption,  urinanalysis,  clinical  chemistry/haematology  and 
histopathology  were  done  on  day  1  post-dose  and  after  14  days  recovery  period.  Study  design  and  major 
outcomes are shown in Table 7. 
The  observed  max  non-lethal  dose  was  >  1000  µg/kg  (FACBC).  The  safety  margin  of  the  maximum  non-
lethal dose (1000 µg/kg) to the estimated clinical dose of FACBC was ~ 5882 x and ~ 3182 x with scaling for 
species differences. 
Table 7: 
Single dose toxicity studies performed with intravenous applications of FACBC 
Observed max 
non-lethal 
dose 
Major findings 
Study ID 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Dose/iv 
2.5 ml/kg 
5 ml/kg 
400127 
GLP 
FACBC 
rat [Crl:CD(SD)] 
10♀/10♂/group 
10 ml/kg 
> 10 ml/kg 
Dosing Volume 
2.5 nmol/ml 
400326 
GLP 
FACBC 
rat [Crl:CD(SD)] 
10♀/10♂/group 
100 µg/kg 
300 µg/kg 
> 1000 µg/kg 
1000 µg/kg 
(5, 10) ml/kg 
brain absolute weight ↓ ♂ d1 
(2.5, 10) ml/kg 
lung relative weight ↓ ♀ d1 
10 ml/kg 
fibrinogen concentration ↑ ♀ d1 
5 ml/kg 
food consumption ↑ ♂ 4d post 
dose, heart absolute/relative 
weight ↓ ♂ d1, 
hemoglobin ↑ ♀ d1, eosinophil 
ratio ↓ ♂ d14, creatinin ↓ ♂ 
d14, Na+ ↑ ♀ d14 
(100, 300, 1000) μg/kg  
- α 1-globulin ↑ ♂ small d14 
1000 μg/kg  
total cholesterol ↑ ♂ d1, Na+ ↑ 
♀ d14 
300 μg/kg  
mean corpuscular hemoglobin 
↑ ♂ d14  
urea nitrogen ↑ ♂ d14, ALT ↑ ♀ 
d14 
100 μg/kg  
mean corpuscular volume, 
corpuscular hemoglobin ↑♂ 
d14, α 2-globulin, K+ ↓ ♂ d1 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 28/90 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
600126 
dog [Beagle] 
GLP 
2♀/2♂/group 
FACBC 
100 µg/kg 
300 µg/kg 
1000 µg/kg 
Dosing Volume 
1 ml/kg 
d = day, FACBC = fluciclovine, ↑ = increase, ↓ = decrease 
> 1000 µg/kg 
1000 μg/kg 
white blood cell count ↑ ♂ d1 
300 μg/kg 
white blood cell count ↑ ♂ d1 
Single dose toxicity testing of OHACBC was carried out in a rat study (400726). No toxicokinetic 
measurements were performed concomitantly. A full examination including general signs, mortality, body 
weight, food consumption, urinanalysis, clinical chemistry/haematology and histopathology was done on day 
1 post-dose and after a 14 day recovery period. Study design and major outcomes are shown in Table 8. 
The observed maximum non-lethal dose was > 1000 µg/kg (OHACBC). The safety margin of the maximum 
non-lethal dose (1000 µg/kg) to the estimated clinical dose of OHACBC was ~ 80 x without and ~ 43 x with 
scaling (body surface area) for species differences. 
Table 8: 
Single dose toxicity studies with iv application OHACBC 
Study ID 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Dose/Route 
Observed 
max non-
lethal dose 
Major findings 
100 µg/kg 
400726 
rat [Crl:CD(SD)] 
300 µg/kg 
GLP 
10♀/10♂/group 
1000 µg/kg 
> 1000µg/kg 
OHACBC 
Dosing Volume 
1 ml/kg  
d = day, OHACBC = major impurity, ↑ = increase, ↓ = decrease 
1000 μg/kg 
red blood cell count/hematocrit ↑ 
♀, testis small right ♂ 
300 μg/kg 
food consumption ↑ ♀ d(4 – 11), 
spleen absolute/ relative weight ↓ 
♀ d1, ovary absolute weight ↑ ♀ 
d14, triglycerides ↑ ♀, Cl- ↓ ♀ 
100 μg/kg 
fibrinogen ↑ ♂, AST ↑ ♂  
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeat-dose toxicity testing of fluciclovine and fluciclovine/OHACBC was carried out in rats (6336-141, 
500326, 2789-017), rabbits (6336-142) and dogs (640126, 2789-018) for a maximum of 14 days. The route 
of application in all studies was intravenous. Two in vitro micronucleus tests and a functional observation 
battery-test were included into the rat studies 6336-141 and 2789-017. 
Table 9: 
Repeated dose toxicity studies with intravenous administration of FACBC and/or 
OHFABC 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
Duration 
NOAEL 
Major findings 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 29/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rat (Fischer) 
6336-141 
15♀/15♂/group 
GLP 
[10 + 5 
recovery/group] 
fluciclovine 
/ 
OHACBC 
[1 : 9] 
0.04/0.36 
mg/kg/d 
0.2/1.9 
mg/kg/d 
14d 
+  
0.2/1.9 
mg/kg/d 
14d recovery 
(0.04/0.36, 0.2/1.9) 
mg/kg/d 
thyroids (mean absolute / 
relative  / parathyroids ↓ ♂ 
d15, Na+ K+ blood urea 
nitrogen ↓ ♀ d8, absolute / 
relative neutrophils ↑, relative 
lymphocytes ↓ ♂ reversible 
d15, absolute/relative 
neutrophils relative 
lymphocyte ↑ ♀ d15 
reversible d29 
(0.2/1.9) mg/kg/d 
mean absolute / relative 
spleen weight ↓ ♂ d15, mean 
total protein globulin ↓, 
albumin/globulin ratio ↑ 
total protein, albumin ↓ ♀ 
reversible d14/29, 
reticulocyte count ↓ ♂ d8 
reversible, red blood cells 
hemoglobin/hematocrit ↓ ♂, 
red blood cells, hemoglobin, 
hematocrit ♀ d8 reversible 
d15/29  
0.04/0.36 mg/kg/d  
Ca2+ cholesterol ↑ ♀ d15, 
mean total bile acids ↑ ♀ d29 
micronucleus test 
0.2/1.9 mg/kg/d  
mean MPCE per 2000 
erythrocytes ↓ ♀ d29 
functional observation 
battery  
0.2/1.9 mg/kg/d  
body temperature ↓ d14 
reversible d28 
(0.04/0.36, 0.2/1.9) 
mg/kg/d 
mean foot splay ↑ male - d1 
pre-dosing 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 30/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1000 μg/kg/d 
ALP ↑ ♂, AST ↓,  
lung unilateral mineralization 
vascular wall 1 control ♂ 
hair embolism (3 ♂, 1 ♀, 1 
control ♂, 1 control ♀)   
liver extramedullary 
hematopoiesis 1 control ♂, 
microgranuloma 2 ♂ / 2 ♀, 
focal necrosis, vacuolar 
degeneration in centrilobular 
hepatocytes 1 control ♀   
spleen had extramedullary 
hematopoiesis 2 control ♂  
kidney basophilic change in 
tubular epithelium 1 control 
♂, cyst 1 ♂  
eye eyeballs retinal dysplasia 
(1 control ♂, 3 control ♀, 1 
♂) 
injection site  
perivascular hemorrhage 1 ♂, 
perivascular fibrosis 3 control 
♀, 4 ♀ hair embolism 1 ♂, 2 
♀, 2 control ♀, cellular 
infiltration in vicinity of blood 
vessels 6 control ♀, 8 ♀ 
(300, 1000) μg/kg/d 
cholesterol ↑ 
300 μg/kg/d 
pituitary relative weight ↑ ♂, 
fibrinogen ↑ ♂, Ca2+ ↑, 
prothrombin time ↑ ♂, total 
bilirubin ↑ ♀ 
(0, 22, 43) μg/kg/d 
liver (minimal inflammatory 
cell foci) 
(22, 43) μg/kg/d 
K+ ↓ slight 
43 μg/kg/d 
body weight gain food 
consumption ↓ ♂ slight, 
ophthalmoscopy lens opacity 
failure of pupil to dilate 1 ♀ , 
red blood cell count ♂ slight,  
mean cell volume mean cell 
haemoglobin ↓ ♂ very small,  
PO 4 3- ↑ slight  
500326 
rat [Crl:CD(SD)] 
GLP 
10♀/10♂/group 
fluciclovine 
100 µg/kg/d 
300 µg/kg/d 
1000 µg/kg/d 
14d 
1000 
µg/kg/d 
2789-017  
GLP 
rat [Crl:CD(SD)] 
5♀/5♂/group 
3♀/5♂/TK group 
fluciclovine 
/ 
OHACBC 
[1 : 39] 
22/842 
µg/kg/d  
dosing 
volume  
10 ml/kg/d 
43/1683 
µg/kg/d  
dosing 
volume  
20 ml/kg/d 
14d 
1000 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 31/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6336-142 
GLP 
rabbit 
[Crl:CD(SD)] 
5♀/5♂/group 
3♀/5♂/ 
recovery group 
fluciclovine 
/ 
OHACBC 
[1 : 15] 
0.025/0.385 
mg/kg 
0.065/0.98 
mg/kg 
14d 
+ 
0.065/0.98
mg/kg 
14d recovery 
640126 
GLP 
dog 
[Beagle] 
3♀/3♂/group 
fluciclovine  
100 µg/kg/d 
300 µg/kg/d 
1000 µg/kg/d 
14d 
1000 
µg/kg/d 
(control, 0.025/0.385, 
0.065/0.98) mg/kg/d 
injection site  
[subcutaneous tissue 
(hemorrhage/infiltration of 
few mononuclear 
inflammatory cells)] 
(0.025/0.385, 
0.065/0.98) mg/kg/d 
relative monocytes ↑ ♀ d15, 
cholesterol ↓ ♂ d15, globulin 
↓ ♂ d29 
0.065/0.98 mg/kg/d  
thymus (relative weight) ↑ ♀,  
albumin/globulin ratio ↑ ♂ 
d29 
(100, 300, 1000) μg/kg/d 
food consumption ↓ [1 ♂/1 ♀ 
(100μg/kg/d), 1 ♂/1 ♀ 
(1000μg/kg/d), 1 ♀, control 
/1 ♀, (1000μg/kg/d)] 
injection site 
hemorrhage all, cellular 
infiltration  
1000 μg/kg/d  
spleen relative weight ↓ ♀, K+ 
(differences, urine) ♂, 
glucose (positive urine) 1 ♂ 
d10, total cholesterol ↑ ♀, 
thyroid left/right, lymphoid 
cellular infiltration 1 ♂  
(100, 1000) μg/kg/d 
Cl- ↓ (urine) ♂ d10 
(300, 1000) μg/kg/d 
-α 2-globulin (differences) ♀ 
300 μg/kg/d  
epididymis relative weight ↑, 
♂ neutrophil (ratio) ↑ ♀, 
ventricle dilation 1 ♂ 
100 μg/kg/d  
body weight ↓ 1 ♀ d14, 
reticulocyte ratio ↓ ♀, 
pituitary anterior lobe cyst 
♂/♀, eyeball right, dysplasia 
in retina ♂, lung hair 
embolism ♀ 
2789-018 
dog 
[Beagle] 
GLP 
3♀/3♂/group 
fluciclovine 
/ 
OHACBC 
[1 : 39] 
5.4/210 
µg/kg/d 
dosing 
volume  
2.5 ml/kg/d 
10.8/421 
µg/kg/d 
dosing 
volume  
5 ml/kg/d 
14d 
10.8 
µg/kg/d 
10.8 μg/kg/d  
red blood cell parameters ↓ 1 
♂/1♀ slight/small  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 32/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
↑ = increase, ↓ = decrease, ALP = alkaline phosphatase, AST = aspartate transaminase, d = day, MPCE = micronucleated 
polychromatic erythrocyte, OHACBC = major impurity 
Genotoxicity 
To assess the genotoxic potential of fluciclovine and the major impurity (OHACBC) several in vitro and in vivo 
genotoxicity studies were performed. 
Table 10: 
Genotoxicity studies with FACBC 
Test system 
Concentrations/ 
Results 
Fluciclovine 
Salmonella Reverse 
Mutation Plate 
Incorporation Assay 
TA98, TA100, 
TA1535, TA1537 
Type of 
test/study 
ID/GLP 
900326  
in vitro GLP 
970226 
Fluciclovine 
Chromosomal 
Aberration Test 
in vitro GLP 
940127 
Fluciclovine 
Concentration range/ 
Metabolising system 
a. (0, 1.22, 4.88, 19.5, 
78.1, 312.5, 1250, 5000) 
μg/plate, +/- S9 
b. (0, 312.5, 625, 1250, 
2500, 5000) μg/plate, +/- 
S9 
(0, 425, 850, 1700) 
μg/ml  
negative 
CHL/IU cells 
(10 mM) 
negative 
± S9 (6 h), - S9 (24 h) 
rat [♂ Crl:CD(SD)] 
negative 
(0, 2.5, 5, 10) ml/kg 
Micronucleus Test  
(2.5 nmol/ml) 
in vivo GLP 
940126 
Fluciclovine 
Micronucleus Test  
in vivo GLP 
rat [♂ Crl:CD(SD)] 
(0, 100, 300, 1000) 
µg/kg 
negative 
Table 11: 
Genotoxicity studies with OHACBC 
Test system 
Concentrations/ 
Results 
Concentration range/ 
Type of 
test/study 
ID/GLP 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 33/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
900426  
OHACBC  
Salmonella Reverse 
Mutation Plate 
Incorporation Assay 
TA98, TA100, 
TA1535, TA1537 
Metabolising system 
a. (0, 312.5, 625, 1250, 
2500, 5000) μg/plate, +/- 
S9 
b. (0, 312.5, 625, 1250, 
2500, 5000) μg/plate, +/- 
S9 
negative 
in vitro GLP 
970326 
OHACBC  
Chromosomal 
Aberration Test 
in vitro GLP 
Carcinogenicity 
CHL/IU cells 
(0, 350, 700, 1400) 
μg/ml  
± S9 (6 h), - S9 (24 h) 
negative 
No carcinogenicity studies were submitted (see non-clinical discussion). 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No specific reproductive or developmental toxicity studies were submitted (see non-clinical discussion).  
However, histological evaluations of male and female reproductive organs in dogs and rats were performed in 
the single and repeat dose toxicity studies and showed no abnormalities. 
No fertility and early embryonic development studies have been submitted.  
No embryonic and foetal toxicity studies have been submitted. 
No prenatal and postnatal developmental toxicity studies have been submitted. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data for fluciclovine/OHACBC were assessed for the rat study 2789-017 and dog studies 640126 
and 2789-018. In summary, accumulation of OHACBC was observed in rats and OHACBC and fluciclovine in 
dogs. However, no adverse toxic effects were derived from accumulation in repeat-dose studies. 
Local Tolerance  
To assess the possible irritation potential of fluciclovine, two local tolerance studies (iv and sc vascular 
irritancy tests) were performed according GLP in rabbits (6 ♂, Kbl: JW). 
In study 700327, a single dose of 3 ml fluciclovine (dosing rate 1 ml/min) was administrated intravenously in 
the left V. auricularis posterior. After the histopathology examination of the injection sites 2 days post-dose a 
slight cellular infiltration was noted in the subcutis where saline (control) had been injected (1/3 sites). 
In study 700427, a single dose of 3 ml fluciclovine (dosing rate of 1ml/min) was administrated 
subcutaneously in the vicinity of the left V. auricularis posterior. Immediately after injection of fluciclovine 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 34/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and control, a slight subcutaneous hemorrhage (3/6 sites) was noted. Additionaly, a slight cellular infiltration 
was noted in the subcutis far from the V. auricularis posterior where saline (control) had been injected (1/3 
sites). No further signs of toxicity concerning general signs, body weight, macroscopic and microscopic 
examination of the injection sites were noted. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In accordance with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), an environmental risk assessment (ERA) was submitted. 
LogKow 
The logKow values for fluciclovine have been estimated using computer programs (-0.61, -0.86 to -1.21). 
The experimental log Kow value for fluciclovine hydrochloride in an OECD study was -2.53. 
Calculation of the Predicted Environmental Concentration (PEC) 
In accordance with the EMA guideline for environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the Predicted Environmental Concentrations in surface water (PECsw) in the 
ERA Phase I was calculated by the Applicant using the following formula:  
PECsw (mg/L) = 
        DOSEai(mg/inh/d) * Fpen  
WASTEWinhab (L/inh/d) * DILUTION 
where: 
DOSEai: maximum daily dose consumed per inhabitant (mg/inh/d) 
Fpen: percentage of market penetration (default value (0.01)) 
WASTEWinhab: amount of waste water per inhabitant per day (default value: 200 L/inh/d) 
DILUTION: dilution factor (default value: 10) 
The worst-case calculation for the active substance fluciclovine, based on the highest recommended dose of 
10 µg/day, resulted in a PECsw value of 0.05 ng/l, which is below the action limit of 10 ng/l.  
Table 12: 
Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): fluciclovine (18F) 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
K ow 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
OECD107  
Result 
-2.53  
Result relevant 
for conclusion 
log K ow  
DT50 or ready 
biodegradability 
NOEC or CMR 
The compound is not considered as PBT  
Bioaccumulation 
Persistence 
Toxicity 
PBT-statement : 
Phase I  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Conclusion 
Conclusion 
not B 
not P 
not T 
Page 35/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater , default or 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
literature) 
Value 
3.3·10-9 
(fluciclovine) 
2.47·10-7 
(OHACBC) 
Unit 
µg/L 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold  
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic activity of fluciclovine (uptake into tumour cells) was studied in-vitro and in-vivo and the 
results obtained support the intended clinical use. Secondary pharmacodynamic data is limited to receptor 
binding studies, but this is acceptable for this type of medicinal product. Safety pharmacology studies are 
limited to the core battery and do not reveal any specific safety risk in animal models and its intended clinical 
use.  
Pharmacokinetic data were sparse and data on absorption was limited to toxicokinetic data. In agreement 
with fluciclovine’s intended clinical use, distribution data showed a broad distribution within the body without 
pronounced accumulation in normal tissues. The major route of elimination is via the renal pathway. 
Fluciclovine does not appear to be extensively metabolised because the two unidentified peaks were found to 
be negligible.  
Toxicological studies with rats and dogs have demonstrated that with a single intravenous injection no deaths 
were observed. Toxicity with repeated administration of up to 1000 mcg/kg/day over 14 days in rats and 
dogs was not observed. This medicinal product is not intended for regular or continuous administration. Long-
term carcinogenicity studies have not been carried out.  
Genotoxicity studies were carried out and no relevant findings were observed. No carcinogenicity studies 
were performed. Given the negative results from the genotoxicity studies and the intended single dose 
application of fluciclovine in patients, no carcinogenicity studies are necessary. 
No specific reproductive or developmental toxicity studies have been conducted or are planned with 
fluciclovine. This is acceptable, as fluciclovine is not intended for repeated use and in women of child-bearing 
potential. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological characteristics of fluciclovine have been 
well characterised. Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of 
safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
The non-clinical aspects are considered to be appropriately addressed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 36/90 
  
  
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Table 13: 
Summary of phase I clinical studies with fluciclovine (18F) solution for injection 
Study No./ 
Sponsor/ 
publication 
Phase I 
GE148-001 
GE Healthcare 
Sorensen, 2013 
McParland, 
2013 
NMK36-P1 
NMP 
Asano, 2011 
Emory 
University 
Nye, 2007 
Study 
Design 
Population 
Open label, 
single dose 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Primary prostate 
cancer 
Open label, 
single dose 
Healthy 
volunteers  
Open label, 
single dose 
Healthy 
volunteers 
No. 
Subj 
6 
[3M/3
F] 
6 
6 
6 
[3M/3
F] 
Study drug  
Objections/endpoints 
Mean dose 
154 MBq 
Mean dose 
418 MBq 
Safety, biodistribution and 
dosimetry in HVs 
Safety, uptake and 
retention in biopsy-proven 
prostate cancer 
174-201 MBq   Safety, biodistribution and 
dosimetry 
Mean dose 
366 MBq 
Safety, biodistribution and 
dosimetry 
Table 14: 
Phase II clinical studies 
Study No./ 
Sponsor 
GE148-002 
GE 
Healthcare 
Study report 
NMK36-PC-
201 
NMP 
Study report 
Study Design 
Population 
Open label, 
single dose 
Primary prostate 
cancer 
No. 
Subj 
21 
Study 
drug  
Mean 
dose 351 
MBq 
Open label, 
single dose 
Primary prostate 
cancer 
10 
94 – 288 
MBq 
Objections/endpoints 
Safety and proof of concept 
efficacy data (Efficacy and 
pharmacokinetics analyses 
were not performed 
because GE Healthcare 
terminated the study early 
for administrative 
reasons.) 
Safety, dose ranging and 
proof of concept efficacy data 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 37/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No./ 
Sponsor 
NMK36-PC-
202 
NMP 
Study report 
- 
Study Design 
Population 
Multicentre, 
open label, 
single dose 
Primary prostate 
cancer patients at 
intermediate and 
high risk of LN 
involvement and 
patients with 
advanced 
primary disease 
and known 
metastases 
Table 15: 
Phase III clinical studies 
No. 
Subj 
68 
Study 
drug  
Objections/endpoints 
Low 
dose: 127 
± 10% 
Efficacy assessment by 
diagnostic performance vs 
CT/bone scan; safety 
High 
dose: 270 
± 10% 
MBq 
Study No./ 
Sponsor 
R01 
No study 
report 
retrieved 
from the 
submission 
BED001/ 
Emory 
University 
Study report 
BED001/ 
Bologna 
University 
Study report 
Study Design 
Retrospective 
collection of data from 
patients exposed to 
fluciclovine (18F) for 
the diagnosis of 
cancer 
Open label single 
dose, comparative 
study vs indium 
(111In) ProstaScint 
Populati
on 
Recurrent 
prostate 
cancer 
Primary 
prostate 
cancer 
Breast 
cancer 
Recurrent 
prostate 
cancer 
No. 
Subj 
713  Mean 
Study 
drug  
dose 309 
MBq 
(range 
140-485 
MBq) 
Objections/endpoints 
Efficacy vs  
histopathology standard of 
truth 
Comparison to 11C choline  
Safety 
115 
162 – 
485 MBq 
Diagnostic performance vs 
histology 
Open label single 
dose, comparative 
study vs choline 
(11C) 
Recurrent 
prostate 
cancer 
91 
~ 370 
MBq 
Detection rate vs 11C choline 
Table 16: 
Additional Reader Studies 
Study No./ 
Sponsor 
BED002 
Reader study 
Populati
on 
Recurrent 
prostate 
cancer 
Study Design 
Blinded image 
evaluation of 
Fluciclovine PET-CT 
scans from: 
1.  The R01 Emory 
University study 
(biopsy 
population) 
2.  Bologna 
University 
(comparison to 
11C choline) 
No. 
Subj 
Study 
drug  
Objections/endpoints 
105 
- 
88 
- 
Fluciclovine PET-CT diagnostic 
performance vs 
histopathological standard of 
truth 
Comparison of Fluciclovine 
PET-CT BIE read and onsite 
11C Choline PET CT scan read 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 38/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No./ 
Sponsor 
BED007 
Reader study 
Study Design 
Blinded image 
evaluation of choline 
(11C) PET-CT scans 
from Bologna 
University 
Populati
on 
Recurrent 
prostate 
cancer 
Emory study 
No. 
Subj 
88 
- 
Study 
drug  
Objections/endpoints 
Comparison to fluciclovine BIE 
read from BED002 
Study Emory R01 was a non-randomised, open-label, single arm study designed to investigate the ability of 
fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT imaging to detect recurrence of prostate carcinoma in the prostate bed validated by 
pathologic analysis of prostate bed biopsies and subject follow-up.  
Bologna study 
This study was a non-randomised, open-label, single arm study designed to compare the ability of fluciclovine 
(18F)  PET-CT  imaging  to  detect  recurrence  of  prostate  carcinoma  with  choline  (11C).  Within-subject 
comparisons were used to evaluate subjects (ultrasound, MRI, CT, SPE and other PET) before and after the 
fluciclovine (18F) scan were recorded, where available, as well as the related biopsy and surgery results and 
the corresponding histopathology reports were recorded for comparison with the scan findings. 
BED-001 study was designed in order to retrospectively collect, pool and analyse relevant data from several 
clinical studies, mainly on two clinical phase III studies (BED001 Emroy, BED001 Bologna) and additional 
patients  from  the  open  access  program.  It  was  planned  primarily  to  confirm  the  safety  of  fluciclovine  (18F) 
given  intravenously  and  in  order  to  allow  a  comparison  of  diagnostic  performance  (efficacy)  analysis  in  the 
additional blinded reader studies BED002 and BED007.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics, distribution and metabolism of fluciclovine (18F) were evaluated as part of Studies GE-
148-001 and NMK36-P1. In Study GE148-001, radioactivity in plasma and urine was assessed using standard 
radioactivity counting methods. 
Absorption  
The applicant did not submit studies on absorption. 
Food effect 
Oka et al showed in vitro that 2mM concentrations of certain amino acids, such as serine, glutamine and 
phenylalanine, could inhibit fluciclovine uptake and accelerate the rate of efflux from target cells11. The 
applicant did not submit studies evaluating food effect on fluciclovine imaging. All studies to date have 
required at least a 4 hour fast before scanning. Thus, the SmPC recommends that prior to administration of 
fluciclovine (18F), patients should not eat or drink for at least 4 hours (other than small amounts of water for 
taking medicinal products) (SmPC section 4.4).   
11 Oka S, Okudaira H, Yoshida Y, Schuster DM, Goodman MM, Shirakami Y, Transport mechanisms of trans-1-amino-3-fluoro[1- 
14C]cyclobutanecarboxylic acid in prostate cancer cells. Nuclear Medicine and Biology 2012. 39: 109-119. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 39/90 
  
  
 
 
                                                
Distribution 
Healthy volunteers 
Two studies and one publication have evaluated the biodistribution in healthy volunteers (GE-148-001; 
NMK36-P1;)12. 
Fluciclovine (18F) distributes immediately following administration to the liver (14% of administered activity), 
pancreas (3%), lung (7%), red bone marrow (12%) and heart wall (4%). There is very little brain uptake, at 
1.6% (0.7% to 2.2%).  With increasing time post injection (pi), uptake in skeletal muscle increases.  Limited 
uterine uptake is noted in non hysterectomized women (1.2%; 0.3% to1.7%).  Lung uptake is also apparent 
(7.1%; 5.2%-8.6%), but, based on comparison with washout of activity from the whole-blood samples, 
activity in the lung was likely due to activity in the pulmonary blood pool.  In study GE-148-001, excretion of 
18F activity was limited and could only be detected through the renal pathway, with an average of 3.2% 
excreted in the urine by the last collection time point of on average 4.2 hours post-injection. No 
measurements of activity were performed beyond the last collection time point of on average 4.2 hours 
(range: 3.8 to 4.7 hours). The critical organ was the pancreas, with a mean absorbed dose of 103 
microGy/MBq. The mean effective dose per unit administered activity was 22 microSv/MBq. 
In study NMK36-P1, mean values for radioactivity distribution rates in organs and tissues per unit volume 
peaked at 3 minutes post-administration in the pancreas, 10–84 minutes in the liver, and in the muscle at 
150 minutes and 220 minutes. Mean values for radioactivity distribution rates per organ and tissue were 
greatest in muscle at all scanning time points, followed by the liver, red marrow, and lungs. The cumulative 
rate of urinary excretion of radioactivity increased over time, with the mean value for the rate of urinary 
excretion of radioactivity from immediately post-administration to 24 hours post-administration being 5.40% 
injected dose (ID). Two other unidentified peaks were detected in the analysis beside fluciclovine, the dose 
equivalents for these peaks were 0.00500%ID and 0.0717%ID, respectively. 
Fluciclovine (18F) has slow and limited excretion into the urine and other differences in uptake kinetics 
provides some advantages over 18F-choline in terms of image quality (Figure 6).  
11
C-choline 
18
F- (E) choline 
Fluciclovine (18F) 
Figure 6: 
Image Quality of 11C- Choline, 18F- Choline and Fluciclovine 
Patients with prostate cancer 
12 Nye JA, Schuster DM, Yu W, Camp VM, Goodman MM, Votaw JR. Biodistribution and radiation dosimetry of the synthetic 
nonmetabolized amino acid analogue anti-18F-FACBC in humans. J Nucl Med 2007. 48:1017-1020 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 40/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Kinetic data in patients with prostate cancer was studied in study GE148-001.  In addition to providing data 
on uptake, a comparison of uptake and efflux of tracer from the malignant lesions to uptake in healthy 
tissues was conducted.  The results demonstrated rapid uptake of tracer into malignant tissue, reaching a 
plateau within 5 minutes of injection.  Efflux of tracer from the tumour began within 15 minutes. In lymph 
node lesions, uptake was also rapid, but followed by a faster washout than in prostate tumour. 
Patients with suspected recurrence of prostate cancer or metastatic disease 
Patients with prior history of histologically confirmed prostate carcinoma with suspected recurrence or 
metastatic disease were also investigated in a pilot study on 15 patients by Schuster et al 200713.  Time 
activity curves show rapid uptake of fluciclovine (18F) in known prostate carcinoma recurrence, to a maximum 
at 4.5 minutes with a plateau to 30 minutes, which is followed by gradual clearance (9%/min) out to 60 
minutes.  Regions in marrow (ilium), muscle (gluteus), and bladder reached a plateau at 4.5 minutes that 
remained constant throughout the imaging period. 
Figure 7: 
Time–activity curve compares uptake in known prostate bed carcinoma recurrence 
vs. bladder, marrow, muscle, and femoral artery 
Similar findings were obtained from time–activity curves in a malignant right internal iliac lymph node.  
13 Schuster DM, Votaw, JR, Nieh PT, Yu W, Nye JA, Master V, Bowman , F D, Issa MM, Goodman MM. Initial Experience with the 
Radiotracer Anti-1-Amino-3-18F-Fluorocyclobutane-1-Carboxylic Acid with PET/CT in Prostate Carcinoma. J Nucl Med 2007. 48:11a-
12a. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 41/90 
  
  
 
                                                
Figure 8: 
Time–activity curve compares uptake in a right internal iliac malignant node (14 x 
11 mm) with benign right inguinal and right obturator (7 x 18 mm) nodeError! Bookmark not defined. 
Radiation Dosimetry 
The radiation dosimetry values across all reported and published studies are compared in Table 17. Akhurst 
only reports the mean absorbed dose for the critical organ, liver, which was 0.0034 cGy/MBq (34 
microGy/MBq)14. This value is in good agreement with the liver absorbed dose values in Table 17. The 
dosimetry values from study GE-148-001 were calculated from human biodistribution data using 
OLINDA/EXM (Organ Level Internal Dose Assessment/Exponential Modeling) software. The MIRD 
methodology was used to calculate the dosimetry and the method of ICRP Publication 60 to calculate the 
effective dose. The results were discussed against other results by J.A. Nye et al. (J Nucl Med 2007; 
48:1017-20), Y. Asano et al. (Ann Nucl Med 2001; 25:414-418) and T. Akhursat et al. (J Nucl Med 2006; 
47(Supp 1):492P) as well as the generic model of ICRP Publication 106 for 18F-labelled amino acids. 
14 Akhurst T, Beattie B, Gogiberidze G, Montiel J, Cai, S, Lassman A et al. [18F]FACBC imaging of recurrent gliomas: a comparison 
with [11C]methionine and MRI. J Nucl Med, 47 (Suppl), 2006. 79P. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 42/90 
  
  
 
 
 
                                                
Table 17:  
Comparison of radiation dosimetry across studies 
The adult effective dose resulting from the administration of the recommended activity of 370 MBq of 
fluciclovine (18F) is 8.2 mSv. For an administered activity of 370 MBq the typical radiation doses to the critical 
organs, pancreas, the cardiac wall and uterine wall are 37.8 mGy, 19.1 mGy and 16.5 mGy, respectively. 
The mean effective dose per unit administered activity is 22 microSv/MBq (range: 20 to 26). The critical 
organ (i.e., the organ with the highest absorbed dose per unit administered activity) is the pancreas, with a 
mean absorbed dose of 102 microGy/MBq (range: 57 to 141).  
Elimination 
In Study GE-148-001, a mean of 3.2% of activity was excreted in the urine in over the collection period 
(mean 4.2 hours). Study NMK36-P1 continued collection for 24 hours, over which time a mean of 5.4% of 
activity was excreted in the urine. Washout of activity from most organs and tissues (with the exception of 
the pancreas) is slow. Washout of 18F activity from the blood is such that about half of the maximum 18F 
concentration in blood is reached by about 1 hour after administration. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 43/90 
  
  
 
 
Fluciclovine is not incorporated into proteins. Fluciclovine is not metabolised in vivo. 
Special populations 
The applicant did not submit studies in special populations. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with Axumin in 
one or more subsets of the paediatric population in diagnosis of amino acid metabolism in solid tumours (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Fluciclovine (18F) is not indicated for use in women (SmPC section 4.6). 
No studies on fertility have been performed (smPC section 4.6). 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No interaction studies have been performed.  
The impact of anti-mitotic agents and colony stimulating factors on uptake of fluciclovine in patients with 
prostate cancer has not been studied (SmPC section 4.5). 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
No pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials studies were submitted (see discussion in pharmacology). 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The applicant did not submit studies in humans to elucidate the mechanism of action of fluciclovine (18F) (see 
discussion in pharmacology). 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The applicant did not submit studies on primary and secondary pharmacology.  Distribution of fluciclovine 
(18F) was studied in healthy volunteers and biopsy-proven newly diagnosed prostate cancer in GE-148-001, 
and in suspected recurrent patients in Schuster 2007. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The effective half-life of fluciclovine equates to the radioactive half-life of 18F, which is approximately 
110 minutes. At the low chemical concentrations of 2 to 10 μg to be administered, fluciclovine (18F) does not 
have any detectable pharmacological activity. The biodistribution was studied and fluciclovine (18F) was found 
to be rapidly and extensively distributed to major organs and tissues with uptake being highest in organs 
with high levels of amino acid uptake, particularly liver, pancreas, bone marrow and skeletal muscle. The 
critical organ (i.e., the organ with the highest absorbed dose per unit administered activity) was the 
pancreas. Washout of activity from most organs and tissues (with the exception of the pancreas) is slow. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 44/90 
  
  
 
Fluciclovine is not metabolised in vivo. The major route of elimination is via the renal pathway. Urinary 
excretion is slow, reaching approximately 3% of administered radioactivity within 4 hours and 5% within 
24 hours. 
Distribution of fluciclovine (18F) was studied in 6 HVs and 6 patients with biopsy-proven newly diagnosed 
prostate cancer after administration of 150 MBq, and in suspected recurrent patients.  In healthy volunteers 
the organs with the highest initial uptake was clarified: liver, red bone marrow, lung and pancreas.  In 
patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer the uptake was rapid and it was high in tumour, lymph node 
lesions and vesicle lesions.  In patients with suspected recurrence, uptake was rapid in local lesions.   
The biodistribution data (organ uptake) has been included in the SmPC in section 5.2. Fluciclovine (18F) 
accumulates in prostate cancer and other types of cancer but also in normal tissues and some other prostate 
pathologies (such as benign prostatic hyperplasia, chronic prostatitis, high grade prostatic intraepithelial 
hyperplasia). In addition, fluciclovine uptake may be increased by an inflammatory reaction to recent 
radiotherapy or cryotherapy. 
Fluciclovine (18F) is preferentially taken up into prostate cancer cells compared with surrounding normal 
tissues.  Uptake by tumours is rapid, with the highest tumour-to-normal tissue contrast between 4 and 
10 minutes after injection and continuing for around 30 minutes, with a 61% reduction in mean tumour 
uptake at 90 minutes after injection. 
Washout of activity from most organs and tissues (with the exception of the pancreas) is slow. Activity in the 
brain is low. With increasing time post injection, distributed uptake is apparent and is mostly associated with 
skeletal muscle. Washout of 18F activity from the blood is such that about half of the maximum 18F 
concentration in blood is reached by about 1 hour after administration. 
No data on primary pharmacology of fluciclovine (18F) has been provided in humans with benign prostatic 
hyperplasia, chronic prostatitis or high grade prostatic intraepithelial hyperplasia). This is of concern as in 
vivo fluciclovine (18F) PET imaging will presumably be tracing the fluciclovine (18F) influx into tumours as well 
as some other pathologies such as benign prostatic hyperplasia, chronic prostatitis or high grade prostatic 
intraepithelial hyperplasia. There is a warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC that fluciclovine (18F) uptake is not 
specific for prostate cancer and may occur with other types of cancer, prostatitis and benign prostatic 
hyperplasia. False-positive cases have been also described in association with an inflammatory response after 
cryotherapy and radiation artefacts in patients previously treated with radiotherapy. Clinical correlation, 
which may include histopathological evaluation of the suspected recurrence site, should be considered where 
appropriate. 
The dosimetry data from Study GE-148-001 was regarded as the most comprehensive assessment of the 
radiation dosimetry of fluciclovine (18F) and these data are described in the SmPC in section 11.  
No pharmacodynamic studies or data on secondary pharmacology were submitted. This is acceptable as the 
administered dose is below the limits of detection in the plasma and hence, no pharmacological activity is 
expected from this low concentration level. At the chemical concentrations used for diagnostic examinations, 
fluciclovine (18F) does not appear to have any pharmacodynamic activity. 
The impact of quantitative/semiquantitative measurement of fluciclovine (18F) uptake as an aid to image 
interpretation has not been assessed. A quantitative correlation between fluciclovine uptake and enhanced 
fluciclovine influx into cells was not assessed in vivo in healthy volunteers or prostate cancer patients. 
The recommendation of at least 4 hour fasting was discussed. The applicant did not submit a study 
demonstrating food effect on the distribution and updtake of fluciclovine as well as bladder activity in patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 45/90 
  
  
that have hydrated before the procedure. However, taking into account the literature and the current clinical 
practice with similar products, a period of fasting is usually recommended before injection. It was determined 
that 4 hours of fasting was sufficient to get a low level of amino acids in the plasma in order to prevent any 
possible interference with the uptake of the active substance. To avoid significant bladder activity, it is 
recommended that patients fast for at least 4 hours prior to the scan, drinking only sips of water within 4 
hours prior to the scan (SmPC section 4.2) 
No interaction studies have been performed. In in vitro studies, fluciclovine (18F) was not taken up by 
common drug transporters indicating a negligible potential for drug interactions. Therefore, no relevant 
interactions between fluciclovine and other drugs are expected. 
It has been reported that registered fluorocholine (18F) products in the EU that fluorocholine (18F) uptake is 
influenced by antiandrogen therapy, antimitotic drugs and colchicine and colony stimulating factors (G-CSF or 
erythropoietin). The impact of anti-mitotic agents and colony stimulating factors on uptake of fluciclovine in 
patients with prostate cancer has not been studied. 
The pharmacokinetics in patients with renal or hepatic impairment have not been characterised (SmPC 
section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). Careful consideration of the activity to be administered is required since an 
increased radiation exposure is possible in these patients. Therefore, this has been included in the RMP as 
missing information. 
No differences considered to be of likely clinical significance were noted between males and females. It is 
noted that the claimed indication is intended to be used in males only. 
An analysis of the potential impact of variations in body mass did not show substantial changes in the 
effective radiation dose for the standard injected dose of 370 MBq. Therefore, no dose adjustments based on 
weight were recommended. The proposed dose is a fixed dose. 
No dose adjustment requirements for the elderly population. 
There is no relevant use of fluciclovine (18F) in children and adolescents for the indication of prostate cancer. 
Fluciclovine (18F) is intended as a single use injection. Dynamic imaging assessment demonstrates 
persistence of imaging uptake in malignant tissue for up to 40 minutes post injection. After 90 minutes, 
efflux of fluciclovine from soft tissue (particularly lymph node lesions) results in tumour uptake appearing 
similar to background. For this reason early image acquisition starting rapidly following initial injection is 
recommended. The patient should be positioned supine with arms above the head. A CT scan should be 
obtained for attenuation correction and anatomic correlation. PET scanning should begin from 3-5 minutes 
(target 4 minutes) after completion of the injection; an acquisition time of 3 minutes per bed position is 
recommended. Increasing the duration of acquisition over the pelvis may increase the sensitivity of detection 
of disease. It is recommended that image acquisition should start from mid-thigh and proceed to the base of 
the skull. Typical total scan time is between 20-30 minutes. 
For method of preparation, see section 12 of the SmPC. 
The use of either intravenous iodinated CT contrast or oral contrast media is not required to interpret 
fluciclovine (18F) PET images. 
Method of administration  
Axumin is for intravenous use.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 46/90 
  
  
 
The activity of fluciclovine (18F) has to be measured with an activimeter immediately prior to injection. 
Axumin should be administered as a bolus intravenous injection. The recommended maximum volume of 
injection of undiluted Axumin is 5 mL. Axumin may be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution 
for injection by a factor of 8. The injection should be followed by an intravenous flush of sterile sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure full delivery of the dose. 
Axumin is for multidose use. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 12. 
For patient preparation, see section 4.4.  
Following strenuous exercise the rates of protein synthesis and degradation and of amino acid transport are 
increased and there is a theoretical risk of an increase in uptake of fluciclovine to those muscles that have 
been exercised.Therefore, it should be recommended to the patient that they do not undertake any 
significant exercise for at least a day before the fluciclovine (18F) scan. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment required. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of fluciclovine (18F) in the paediatric population. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The PK of fluciclovine (18F) was characterised in several Phase I studies measuring biodistribution and 
dosimetry. The mechanism of action and PK data for fluciclovine (18F) has been adequately described in the 
SmPC (Section 5.1 and 5.2) and information on the potential in vivo pharmacodynamic drug-drug 
interactions with a number of compounds that may be frequently used by the intended population was also 
included in the SmPC section 4.5. 
The CHMP considers that the clinical pharmacology of fluciclovine has been adequately described and no 
further studies are necessary. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 47/90 
  
  
 
 
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
No clinical studies on the optimal dose, optimal method of administration and optimal timing for image 
acquisition have been submitted. 
The  recommended  activity  of fluciclovine (18F)  to  be  administered  in  adults  ( i . e .   370 MBq) is based on the 
evaluation of imaging quality and dosimetry which has been performed mostly at doses of 370 MBq. Clinical 
experience in Norway where lower doses were used (<300 MBq) suggested that lowering the dose 
administered may have a deleterious effect on image quality. This application is based on retrospective 
assessment of data collected at different sites. Each site used different approaches to image acquisition, based 
on standards of practice in the individual unit. Based on information from blinded evaluation of images from 
two of the sites it seems that images acquired using shorter image acquisition time per bed position results in 
low count images which may be difficult to interpret; similar findings have been noted, for fludeoxyglucose 
(18F)15,16 .  
2.5.2.  Main study(ies) 
Study 1  BED001 Emory: A Retrospective Observational Study investigating 
the Safety and Effectiveness of Fluciclovine (18F) PET in Human 
Subjects 
BED001 was a retrospective observational study designed to collect, pool and analyse relevant data collected 
from multiple research sites including Emory University.  Therefore BED001 Emory is the part of BED001 
study concerning data from the Emory study. 
15 Komar G, Teras M, Seppa M, Hirvonena J, Vahlkverg T, Bergmand J, Minn H. Comparison of 2D and 3D performance for FDG PET 
with different acquisition times in oncological patients. Nic Med Comm 2009; 30: 16-24. 
16 Brown C, Dempsey M-F, Gillen G and Elliott AT. Investigation of 18F FDG 3D mode PET image quality and acquisition time. Nuc 
Med Comm 2010; 31: 254-9. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 48/90 
  
  
 
                                                
Emory study: Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT for the Detection and Staging of Recurrent Prostate 
Carcinoma17 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Inclusion Criteria 
•  Eighteen years of age or older 
•  Originally diagnosed with localized (Stage T1c, T2, or T3) prostate carcinoma and having undergone 
what was considered definitive therapy for localised disease 
o 
In the case of brachytherapy, cryotherapy, or external beam radiation, treatment had 
occurred at least 2 years in the past 
17 Schuster DM, Nieh PT, Jani AB, Amzat R, DuBois Bowman F, Halkar RK, Master VA, Nye JA, Odewole OA, Osunkoya AO, Savir-
Baruch B, Alaei-Taleghani P, Goodman MM. Anti-3-[18F]FACBC positron emission tomography-computerized tomography and 
111In-capromab- pendetide single photon emission computerized tomography-computerized tomography in recurrent prostate 
carcinoma: Results of a prospective clinical trial. J Urol 2014; 191: 1446-53 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 49/90 
  
  
 
                                                
•  Had a suspicion of recurrent prostate carcinoma as defined by ASTRO criteria:   
o  Three consecutive rises of PSA or earlier, if clinically appropriate 
o  And/or nadir + 2.0 after radiotherapy 
o  And/or >0.3 after prostatectomy 
• Ability to lie still for PET scanning 
• Ability to provide written informed consent 
Exclusion Criteria 
• Less than 18 years of age 
• Historic disease staging of greater than T3 
• Less than 2 years since brachytherapy, cryotherapy, or external beam radiation therapy 
• Absence of suspicious PSA elevation 
• Inability to lie still for PET scanning 
• Inability to provide written informed consent 
• Whole-body bone scintigraphy findings characteristic of metastatic prostate carcinoma 
• Less than 2 months since any prior prostate biopsy 
Treatments 
Subjects  had  previously  undergone conventional  prostate  cancer  staging,  according  to  institutional 
guidelines,  including  bone,  ProstaScint  and pelvic CT scanning and trans-rectal ultrasound (TRUS), where 
appropriate. Subjects were screened within 21 days prior to the fluciclovine (18F) PET  scanning procedure 
(Day 1).   All  suspicious extraprostatic findings were confirmed by biopsy at least 24 hours after imaging. 
Subjects were followed up for one year, regardless of the initial findings, in order to optimise the correlation of 
imaging to clinical findings.  
• 
Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning occurred after an IV bolus of 370 MBq.  
The fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT imaging protocol used, and based on the investigator’s previous experience with 
the  radiotracer,  assumed  tracer  uptake  was  most  intense  during  the  45  minutes  after  injection.  PET-CT 
scanning  of  the  abdominopelvic  region  was  initiated  3  minutes  after  completion  of  the  fluciclovine  (18F) 
injection to allow for blood pool clearance.  
Scanning was done on a Discovery DLS or 690 PET-CT scanner (GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, Wisconsin) with 
5–16 minute (early), 17–28 minute (delayed) and 29–40 minute (delayed 2) acquisitions. 
Eligible subjects underwent fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning on Study Day 1, as outlined below: 
• All subjects fasted for four hours to normalize their neutral amino acid levels. One hour prior to 
scanning, the subjects drank 500 mL of 1.2% (Readi-Cat) oral contrast over 1 hour to maximize 
conspicuity of abdomen and pelvic structures 
• Prior to placement in the tomographic gantry, an IV catheter was placed for injection of tracer  
• The subject was placed in the tomographic gantry for a CT scan of the chest-abdomen-pelvis (80-120 
mA) to be utilized for anatomic imaging and correction of emission data (approximately 1 minute) 
• A bolus of fluciclovine (18F), approximately 10.0 mCi (3.70 x 108 Bq), was administered IV over 1-2 
minutes 
• At four minutes, a 4 minute per bed position PET acquisition commenced at the pelvis (to include the 
entire prostate or prostate bed) 
• Three bed positions were obtained covering the pelvis through abdomen to above the kidneys 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 50/90 
  
  
• This sequence was repeated twice 
In the proposed SmPC the applicant states that the patient should be positioned supine with arms above the 
head. A CT scan should be obtained for attenuation correction and anatomic correlation.  PET scanning should 
begin from 3-5 minutes (target 4 minutes) after completion of the injection; an acquisition time of 3 minutes 
per bed position was recommended. It is recommended that image acquisition should start from mid-thigh 
and proceed to the base of the skull.  Typical total scan time is between 20-30 minutes. Increasing the 
duration of acquisition over the pelvis may increase the sensitivity of detection of disease. 
•  Histopathological sampling: 
Subjects who had undergone prior prostatectomy underwent TRUS and anastomotic site biopsy 
Subjects who had undergone previous brachytherapy or external beam radiation therapy underwent standard 
TRUS 12-core biopsy 
•  Recording of PSA levels until at least 12 months after the last administration of fluciclovine (18F) 
• 
PET-CT scanning was to be suspended in any subject who experienced a Grade 3 or greater toxicity, 
per  NCI  (National  Cancer  Institute)  Common  Toxicity  Criteria  for  Adverse  Event  (CTCAE)  Reporting 
Version  3.0,  with  a  causality  attribution  of  probably  or  definitely  associated  with  fluciclovine  (18F). 
Fluciclovine  (18F)  PET-CT  scanning  was  only  to  be  resumed  once  the toxicity  resolved  to  Grade 1  or 
below. 
Objectives 
Primary:  
• 
To  investigate  the  ability  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  PET-  Computed  Tomography  (CT)  imaging  to  detect 
recurrence of prostate carcinoma in the prostate bed validated by pathologic analysis of prostate bed 
biopsies and patient follow up. 
Secondary: 
• 
• 
To  investigate  the  ability  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  PET-CT  imaging  to  detect  extra-prostatic  recurrence  of 
prostate carcinoma validated by pathologic analysis of suspect lymph nodes sampled via percutaneous 
and laparoscopic methods and patient follow up. 
To evaluate the ability of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT imaging in the discrimination of local recurrence of 
prostate  carcinoma  from  that  of  extra-prostatic  recurrence  validated  by  a  combination  of  pathologic 
analysis, one-year follow up imaging and clinical correlation 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was positive predictive value (PPV) of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan at lesion level 
versus the SOT (histological verification).  
The secondary endpoints were: 
•  PPV at region level (regions 1-4) and patient level vs SOT. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 51/90 
  
  
 
•  NPV, sensitivity, specificity detection rate (DR) of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan vs SOT. All of them at 
lesion level, region level (regions 1-4) and patient level. 
•  PPV, NPV, sensitivity, specificity detection rate (DR) of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan vs 
reference standard based on a composite of histological verification &/or findings of at least 1 other 
imaging modality (< 3 months prior to and < 6 months after fluciclovine (18F) scan) &/or post-therapy 
PSA levels.  Analyses were conducted as outline above and outcomes presented separately at Region 
(Regions 1 – 4) and Subject level. 
•  Agreement and disagreement between fluciclovine (18F) and the other  imaging  findings. Analyses 
were  presented  separately  for  each  imaging  modality  and  conducted  at Region level only.   
•  The DR of fluciclovine (18F) imaging was presented at  Region level (Regions 1 – 3 and 5 – 8) and 
Subject level. 
•  Sub-group  analysis  including  age,  weight,  race,  prior  and  concurrent  anti-cancer  therapy,  Gleason 
Score  of primary tumour,  D’Amico risk score of primary tumour and PSA (value at time of scan, 
doubling time and velocity) were performed where available data permitted. 
The interpretation of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT was visual.  A region in the prostate was considered positive by 
fluciclovine (18F) scan if there was asymmetric focal activity exceeding prostate background activity according 
to the criteria utilized by Yamaguchi (2005) during the investigation of choline (11C) PET uptake in the 
prostate. If a prostatectomy had been conducted, abnormal focal uptake over background was considered 
positive. 
A lymph node was to be considered visually positive if there was abnormal activity over expected soft tissue 
and/or blood pool.  Intensity was recorded as follows: 
•  Mild: above blood pool but less than muscle 
•  Moderate: above muscle but less than marrow 
•  Intense: above marrow 
Lesion and Region level locations were defined as presented in Table 18:  
Table 18: 
Definition of Lesion and Region Levels used for Analysis of BED-001 Primary and 
Secondary Effectiveness Endpoints 
Lesion 
Prostate and prostate 
Lymph nodes above 
Lymph nodes below 
Bones - skull 
bed 
diaphragm 
diaphragm 
Bones – neck and chest  Bones below diaphragm  Soft tissue/parenchymal 
Region 
Region 1: Prostate and 
Region 2: Pelvic lymph 
Region 3: Other nodal, 
Region 4: Extra- 
prostate bed 
nodes 
bone or soft tissue 
prostatic (including 
(including all other lesion 
Region 2 & Region 3 
locations) 
locations) 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 52/90 
  
  
 
Only areas with assessed positive fluciclovine (18F) uptake were biopsied at Emory University.  No systematic 
histological assessment of negative either lymph node areas or extraprostatic sites reported on the scan were 
performed. In an attempt to correct this additionally a reference standard was applied and a scan was 
considered a true positive if findings were confirmed by a fall in PSA values following intervention which 
would have included the site of a positive finding on PET-CT, or corroborative findings on other image 
modalities within 3 months prior and 6 months after the fluciclovine (18F) scan.  A true negative was assessed 
as negative histopathology on biopsy of negative lesions, stable PSA values without specific treatment, or 
continued negative findings on other image modalities within 6 months of the fluciclovine (18F) scan. 
Sample size 
The planned sample size was 128 scans based on power analyses for testing hypotheses that compared an 
accuracy measure to a specified value and assuming a 5% type-I error rate.  Sensitivity and specificity 
measurements for fluciclovine (18F) that exceeded 0.9 were anticipated, with the power to detect 
improvement over baseline levels of 0.8, i.e. reflecting at least a 12.5% improvement. To detect effect sizes 
corresponding to the aforementioned levels, it was determined that the proposed sample size of 128 would 
provide the minimum power of 0.94 with observed fluciclovine (18F) sensitivity and specificity exceeding 0.9. 
Power analyses were also conducted assuming 15% missing data and resulted in a targeted sample size of 
109. The reduced sample size of 109 subjects would provide power of >0.90 for sensitivity/specificity 
exceeding 0.9.   
Randomisation 
This study was not randomised. 
Blinding (masking) 
This study was unblinded.  However, interpretation of fluciclovine (18F) scans in the original study R01 was 
performed in a blinded manner at least to the result of both the other imaging tests and histopathology. 
Statistical methods 
For all primary (positive predictive value (PPV)) and secondary (negative predictive value (NPV), sensitivity, 
specificity detection rate (DR)) analyses, the point estimates (expressed in percentages) and the 2-sided 
95% exact confidence interval, calculated using the method of Clopper & Pearson, 1934 were presented. 
Analyses were conducted at Lesion, Region and Subject level, where applicable. At the Lesion level a subject 
was counted as many times as he had lesions. At the Region level, each subject was counted for each region 
where a lesion was detected, regions being analysed separately. For the primary effectiveness analysis and 
each of the secondary effectiveness endpoints, fluciclovine (18F) imaging findings at Lesion level were cross 
tabulated with biopsy findings as SOT. The number of lesions biopsied in the analysis (N) and the number 
(and %) meeting each of the following criteria were presented: 
• True positive (TP) 
• False positive (FP) 
• True negative (TN) 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 53/90 
  
  
• False negative (FN) 
Point estimates (expressed in %), the 2-sided 95% exact confidence interval and p-value were presented for 
each endpoint. These analyses were also conducted at Region level (Regions 1 – 4) and Subject level, and 
presented separately. Fluciclovine (18F) imaging findings (region, anatomical location, fluciclovine (18F) 
finding) were listed. Details of the findings (including region, anatomical location, fluciclovine (18F) finding, 
biopsy finding) were listed for fluciclovine (18F) imaging and for biopsy.No formal interim data analyses were 
pre-planned. 
The statistical signiﬁcance of differences in sensitivity, speciﬁcity and overall accuracy between fluciclovine 
PET-CT and Prostascint imaging was calculated using the McNemar chi- square test, which adjusts for 
correlations in the accuracy measures for each patient. The statistical signiﬁcance of differences in PPV and 
NPV was assessed using approximate tests based on the difference between 2 proportions. Statistical 
signiﬁcance was determined using a type I error rate of a ¼ 0.05. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
The BED-001 study retrospectively collected data from centres in the US (Emory), Italy (Bologna) and 
Norway (Oslo). The study was initiated in November 2007 and was completed in July 2012. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 54/90 
  
  
 
Conduct of the study 
Six amendments have been made to the study protocol (Table 19), with the exception of one minor change 
that  refers  to  the  data  collection  period  definitions  or  modalities  for  data  collection  at  different  sites.    The 
study design was based on retrospective datasets. 
Table 19: 
Summary of the Substantial Changes made to the R01 Study Protocol 
Date 
Summary of Changes 
14 Nov 2007  Change to inclusion criterion 4: clarification of prior therapy; 
definition of suspected recurrence 
29 Jul 2008 
Allowing  subjects  who  were  negative  on  the  initial  fluciclovine 
(18F) PET-CT scan, but present with rising PSA to have another scan, 
subject to inclusion criteria 
18 Nov 2008  Clarification  of  type  of  and  schedule  for  laboratory  tests  and  vital 
signs:  CBC,  complete  metabolic  profile  and  urinalysis  to  be 
performed on the morning  of  the  scan  and  1  week  after;  vital  signs 
(temperature,  pulse,  respiration  rate,  blood  pressure)  prior  to 
fluciclovine (18F) infusion and every 15 minutes during infusion 
05 Nov 2010  Addition of urinalysis immediately following the scan 
23 Feb 2012 
Increase period of post-scan follow-up from 1 to 5 years 
13 Sep 2012 
Inclusion of Data and Safety Monitoring Plan 
Baseline data 
Table 20: 
Subject Demography and Baseline Characteristics for Recurrent Prostate Cancer 
Subjects at the Emory Site (including R01) 
Number  of  subjects  in  FAS  (N) 
Study 
Age  n (%) 
Mean  + SD 
Median  (range) 
Race  n (%) 
Black  or  African  American, Asian, Other 
White 
Missing 
PSA  (ng/mL)  n1 
Mean  + SD 
Median  (range) 
Recurrent PCa  therapy  n (%) 
Radical  prostatectomy only 
Radical  prostatectomy +  others 
Radiotherapy only 
137 
Emory  (BED-001) 
137 
66.6 
67.0+ 
28 
98 
11 
5.961 
2.920 
131 
19 
5 
40 
(100) 
7.77 
(42,  90) 
(20) 
(71.5) 
(8.0) 
125 
7.5571 
(0.05,  44.76) 
(95.6) 
(13.9) 
(3.6) 
(29.2) 
115 
R01 
115 
NC 
NC 
22 
83 
10 
NC 
NC 
NC 
115 
15 
4 
16 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 55/90 
  
  
 
 
(38.0) 
(10.9) 
(67.2) 
(41.3) 
(42.4) 
(16.3) 
52 
15 
92 
38 
39 
15 
137 
6 
40 
30 
61 
Radiotherapy +  others 
Others 
Gleason  score  n (%) 
<6 
7 
8-10 
D’Amico classification  n (%) 
Low  risk 
Intermediate risk 
High  risk 
Indeterminate 
Subjects  having  a fluciclovine 
(18F)  PET-CT  scan 
Total  number of  fluciclovine 
PET-CT scans 
Abbreviation(s): N = the number of subjects in the analysis set; n = the number of subjects meeting the criterion; % = 
subjects/N*100; FAS = full analysis set; NC = not calculated  
1Baseline defined as last value prior to fluciclovine (18F) administration 
42 
38 
84 
36 
35 
13 
64 
6 
37 
21 
51 
(29.2) 
(21.9) 
(44.5) 
(100) 
(4.4) 
137 
149 
128 
115 
Numbers analysed 
Data from all 115 (100%) subjects were included in the FAS, and EAS analysis sets. 
Ninety nine (99) of these 115  subjects  had  a  histopathology  report  available  for  biospies/surgical 
specimens/  cytological evaluations performed on lesions scanned by fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT imaging. 
Seven (7) of these subjects had imaging and histopathology data available from two fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT 
scanning time  points. For one (1) of the fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan images the on-site reader was 
unable to make  a  definite  allocation  of  positive  or  negative  for  a  lesion  in  which  there  was  a  degree 
of fluciclovine  (18F)  uptake,  at  a  level  similar  to  background.  Consequently this  lesion  was  declared 
indeterminate and 105 subject data points feature in the primary SOT analysis. 
Data  from  other  imaging  modalities  conducted  within  6  months  of  the  fluciclovine  (18F)  PET-CT scan  and/ 
or  PSA  values  were  available  for  a  further  14  subjects,  twelve  (12)  of  whom  had  data available from two 
fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning time points. Consequently 125 subject data points feature in the reference 
standard analysis. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The pivotal efficacy data derives from 115 patients recruited into the BED-001 study at Emory University.  
Patients were adult and elderly men presenting with suspected recurrence, based on elevated blood PSA 
levels after primary curative treatment of localized prostate cancer and with negative bone scintigraphy. 
Patients with non-surgical therapy were treated at least 2 years before. Fluciclovine 18F PET-CT was restricted 
to the abdomino-pelvic region. 
Histopathology standard of truth data was available for 99 of the 115 subjects. Histological assessment of 
extraprostatic sites (either regional lymph nodes or distant sites) was only conducted for sites with positive 
image findings. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 56/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The PPV of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT, using biopsy as SOT, significantly exceeded 50% at Lesion, Region and 
Subject level, exceeding 90% at Region 2 (95.8%) and Region 4 (93.1%), and was statistically significant in 
each case. Sensitivity exceeded 90% at Subject and Region level, was 100% for Regions 2 and 4, and was 
statistically significant at all levels (p<0.0001). Sensitivity analysis allocating indeterminate lesions as either 
positive or negative had no statistically significant bearing on the results. NPV was 80.4% at Lesion level and 
92.3% at both Subject level and Region level (Region 1). Specificity exceeded 50% at Lesion level and was 
38.7% at Subject level. No data are presented for NPV and specificity for Regions 2 and 4 since the number 
of subjects with negative standard of truth was insufficient to support these analyses. The DR exceeded 80% 
at Subject level. 
Table 21: 
Diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT vs Histopathology in Subjects 
with Recurrent Prostate Cancer in Study R01 (Emory) 
Subject 
Lesion 
Region 
Pelvic lymph 
nodes (R2) 
Prostate & 
Prostate bed 
(R1) 
Extra-prostatic 
(pelvic lymph 
nodes, other 
noes, bone 
and soft 
tissue) (R4) 
N 
105 
371 
97 
24 
29 
True Positive 
73 (69.5) 
126 (34.0) 
57 (58.8) 
23 (95.8) 
27 (93.1) 
 n (%) 
False Positive  
19 (18.1) 
82 (22.1) 
27 (27.8) 
1 (4.2) 
2 (6.9) 
n (%) 
True Negative  
12 (11.4) 
131 (35.3) 
12 (12.4) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
n (%) 
False Negative  
1 (1.0) 
32 (8.6) 
1 (1.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
n (%) 
PPV  
n (%) 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
NPV 
n (%) 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
73/92 (79.3) 
126/208 (60.6) 
57/84 (67.9) 
[69.6, 87.1] 
[53.6, 67.3] 
[56.8, 77.6] 
<0.0001 
0.0014 
0.0007 
23/24 (95.8) 
[78.9, 99.9] 
<0.0001 
27/29 (93.1) 
[77.2, 99.2] 
<0.0001 
12/13 (92.3) 
[64.0, 99.8] 
0.0017 
131/163 
(80.4) 
[73.4, 86.2] 
<0.0001 
12/13 (92.3) 
0/0 (0.0) 
0/0 (0.0) 
[64.0, 99.8] 
0.0017 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 57/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitivity 
n (%) 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
Specificity 
n (%) 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
Detection Rate 
n (%) 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
73/74 (98.6) 
[92.7, 100.0] 
<0.0001 
12/31 (38.7) 
[21.8, 57.8] 
0.8595 
92/105 (87.6) 
[79.8, 93.2] 
<0.0001 
126/158 
(79.7) 
[72.6, 85.7] 
<0.0001 
131/213 
(61.5) 
[54.6, 68.1] 
0.0005 
208/371 
(56.1) 
[50.8, 61.2] 
0.0111 
57/58 (98.3) 
23/23 (100.0) 
27/27 (100.0) 
[90.8, 100.0] 
[85.2, 100.0] 
[87.2, 100.0] 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
12/39 (30.8) 
0/1 (0.0) 
0/2 (0.0) 
[17.0, 47.6] 
0.9881 
84/97 (86.6) 
24/24 (100.0) 
29/29 (100.0) 
[78.2, 92.7] 
[85.0, 100.0] 
[88.1, 100.0] 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
Using the findings of other relevant imaging modalities, the PPV of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning 
significantly exceeded 50% in Regions 1 – 3 in all but 1 instance. The lowest agreement was approximately 
64% in Region 1 and the highest was 100% in Regions 2 and 3, for fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT vs MRI in each 
instance. Agreement between fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT and unenhanced CT scanning was 18% in Region 1 as 
detection of prostate lesions is poor following unenhanced CT. 
Using the findings of other relevant imaging modalities and clinical follow-up as reference standard in the 
recruited population, patient-based sensitivity and specificity of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT for detection of 
prostate/prostate bed recurrences were 94.7% (89/94) (95%CI: 88.0-98.3%) and 54.8% (17/31) 
(95%CI:36-72.7%), respectively.  For detection of extraprostatic recurrences (regional lymph node and/or 
distal metastases) sensitivity was 84.2% (32/38) (95%CI: 68.7-94%) and specificity was 89.7% (78/87) 
(95%CI: 81.3-95.2%), respectively. 
Description of the false positive cases 
False-positive and false-negative results of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT have been described.  Twenty seven 
scans from 26 patients had false positive findings in the prostate/prostate bed region; 7 of these had true 
positive findings in additional areas and so count as true positive in the patient analysis, which is the reason 
for the apparent discrepancy between patient and region assessments.  With the exception of one case who 
had a negative biopsy (fibrous tissue) reported and a case which had undergone PET-CT one month after 
cryotherapy (which may have resulted in inflammatory response and a false positive finding in the 
cryotherapied tissues), all of these patients had been previously treated with radiotherapy. Review of these 
cases indicates that the histopathology report shows ‘radiation artefact’.  
With respect to false negatives, only 1 patient had a completely negative scan subsequently demonstrated to 
be a false negative scan based on histopathological assessment; this patient, who had a PSA value of 
0.28ng/mL, underwent a 6 core needle biopsy which demonstrated a tiny (<5% volume) area of 
adenocarcinoma within 1/6 samples taken; brachytherapy changes were noted in the remaining 5 core 
samples. The fluciclovine (18F) scan was reported negative in the prostate and there was no evidence of 
metastatic spread (no extraprostatic sites were biopsied). The very small volume of tumour noted on the 
biopsy may have been below the critical size (~5mm) for reliable PET assessment in this case.  
In the Emory subset, the PET scans showing distant metastases only involved distal lymph nodes, soft tissue 
and bone but not visceral metastases.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 58/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Positive Likelihood Ratio and Negative Likelihood Ratio 
As shown in Table 21, patient-based sensitivity and specificity for detection of recurrent prostate cancer, 
calculated in 99 patients with 105 fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans at Emory University (where the bulk of the 
BED-001 study data were obtained) versus the standard of truth, were 98.6% (95%CI: 92.7-100%) and 
38.7% (95%CI: 21.8-57.8%), respectively.  These figures were obtained combining local and distant 
recurrences (intraprostatic, regional and non-regional lymphatic, bone and soft tissue sites).  The calculated 
positive likelihood ratio was 1.61 (95%CI: 1.22-2.13) and negative likelihood ratio was 0.035 (95%CI: 0-
0.26).  
Summary of main study 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present application. 
These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit 
risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 22: 
Summary of Efficacy for trial BED 001 EMORY 
Title: 18F-FACBC PET-CT for the Detection and Staging of Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma 
Study identifier 
CA129356-01/BED001 Emory 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
A phase III retrospective observational study investigating the safety and efficacy 
of Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT in patients with suspected recurrent prostate 
carcinoma vs histopathology report from a biopsy or surgical specimen 
28 November 2007 – 10 July 2012 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:    not applicable 
Superiority:  
Fluciclovine (18F) 
N=115 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Results and Analysis  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
128 fluciclovine (18F) scans for 115 subjects 
105 subject data points in SOT from 99 subjects 
True positive/(True Positive + False positive) 
True negative/(True negative + False negative) 
True positive/ (True positive + False negative)  
True negative/ (True negative + False positive) 
(True positive + False positive)/ data points in SOT 
Positive 
predictive 
value 
(PPV) % 
Negative 
predictive 
value (NPV) 
% 
Sensitivity 
% 
Specificity 
% 
Detection 
rate 
Page 59/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
descriptio
n 
Analysis 
population 
and time 
point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis 
Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT using histopathology report as standard of truth at the subject 
level,lesion level and site level 
Treatment group 
Subject 
Lesions 
Site 
Regional 
lymph 
nodes 
Prostat
e  
& 
prostat
e bed 
Extra 
prostatic 
(disease 
outside the 
prostate bed 
including 
regional and 
distant 
recurrences) 
Number of subject 
TP 
n (%) 
FP 
n (%) 
TN 
n (%) 
FN 
n (%) 
105 
73 (69.5)   126 (34.0)   57 (58.8)  23 (95.8)  27 (93.1) 
371 
29 
24 
97 
19 (18.1)  82 (22.1) 
27 (27.8)  1 (4.2) 
2 (6.9) 
12 (11.4)  131 (35.3)   12 (12.4)  0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (1.0) 
32 (8.6) 
1(1.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
Primary 
endpoint 
Effect 
estimate 
per 
comparison 
PPV 
subject 
lesion 
Regional 
lymph 
nodes 
Prostat
e  
& 
prostat
e bed 
%  
79.3 
60.6 
67.9 
95.8 
95%CI 
69.6, 
87.1 
53.6, 67.3 
56.8, 
77.6 
78.9, 
99.9 
Extra 
prostatic 
(disease 
outside the 
prostate bed 
including 
regional and 
distant 
recurrences) 
93.1 
77.2, 99.2 
p-value 
<0.0001 
0.0014 
0.0007  <0.0001  <0.0001 
Secondary 
endpoint 
NPV 
% 
92.3  
80.4 
92.3 
0 
0 
95%CI 
p-value 
64.0, 
99.8 
0.0017 
73.4, 86.2 
<0.0001 
64.0, 
99.8 
0.0017 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Secondary  Sensitivity 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 60/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
endpoint 
% 
98.6 
79.7 
98.3 
100 
100 
95% CI 
p-value 
72.6, 85.7 
92.7, 
100.0 
<0.0001  <0.0001 
90.8,  
100 
<0.000
1 
85.2, 100  87.2, 100 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Specificity 
% 
38.7  
61.5 
30.8 
0 
95%CI 
p-value 
21.8, 
57.8 
0.8595 
54.6, 68.1 
0.0005 
17.0, 
47.6 
0.9881 
Post-hoc 
analysis 
Post-hoc 
analysis 
Positive 
likelihood 
ratio 
95% CI 
Negative 
likelihood 
ratio 
1.61 
1.42 
1.22, 
2.13 
0.03 
1.15, 1.75 
0.06 
Notes 
n/a 
95% CI 
0, 0.26 
0.01, 0.41 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Secondary analysis  
Patient-based sensitivity and specificity of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT for detection of 
prostate/prostate bed recurrences were 94.7% (89/94) (95%CI: 88.0-98.3%) and 54.8% 
(17/31) (95%CI:36-72.7%), respectively.  For detection of extraprostatic recurrences 
(regional lymph node and/or distal metastases) sensitivity was 84.2% (32/38) (95%CI: 
68.7-94%) and specificity was 89.7% (78/87) (95%CI: 81.3-95.2%).. 
Analysis 
descriptio
n 
Using the 
findings of 
other 
relevant 
imaging 
modalities 
and clinical 
follow-up 
as 
reference 
standard 
instead of 
the 
standard of 
truth 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The pivotal efficacy data derives from BED-001, a study which recruited 596 male subjects with recurrent 
prostate cancer from 4 clinical sites in three countries. A histopathology report from a biopsy or surgical 
specimen was available for 143 of the 596 subjects, 105 (73%) from Emory University, 12 (8.4%) from 
Bologna University and 26 (18%) from Oslo University Hospitals. Sites of metastases identified included 
prostate/prostate bed, seminal vesicles, regional/non-regional lymph nodes, soft tissues and bone.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 61/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The patient-based diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) versus the histopathology report to detect 
cancer prostate recurrence overall (at any location), and in 3 different locations (prostate/bed, regional 
lymph nodes, and distant metastases) is tabulated below (Table 23). 
Table 23: 
Patient-based diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) versus histopathology to 
detect cancer prostate recurrence overall (at any location), and in 3 different 
locations (prostate/bed, regional lymph nodes, and distant metastases) in study 
BED-001 
Region 
Overall 
Local recurrence 
Biopsy of  
prostate/bed 
only 
Biopsy of 
regional 
nodes 
Total 
Distal 
recurrence 
TOTAL 
True positive 
False positive 
True negative 
False negative 
PPV*(95%CI) 
NPV*(95%CI) 
Sensitivity 
(95%CI) 
Specificity  
(95%CI) 
143 
98 
21 
14 
10 
82.4% 
(74.3; 88.7) 
58.3% 
(36.6; 77.9) 
90.7% 
(83.6, 95.5) 
99 
60 
19 
14 
6 
75.9 % 
(65.0;84.9) 
70% 
(45.7;88.1) 
90.9% 
(81.3;96.6) 
40% 
(23.9, 57.9) 
42.4% 
(25.5;60.8) 
15 
14 
0 
1 
0 
100% 
(76.8;100) 
114 
74 
19 
15 
6 
79.6% 
(69.9;87.2) 
29 
14 
2 
5 
8 
87.5 % 
(61.7; 98.4) 
100% 
(2.5;100) 
71.4% 
(47.8;88.7) 
38.5% 
(13.9; 68.4) 
100% 
(76.8; 
100) 
100% 
(2.5;100) 
92.5% 
(84.4;97.2) 
63.6% 
(40.7;82.8) 
44.1% 
(27.2;62.1) 
71.4% 
(29.0;96.3) 
*PPV – Positive Predictive Value; NPV - Negative Predictive Value 
Supportive study(ies) 
Study 2:  BED-001 Bologna Study: ANTI-3-18F-FACBC (anti-1-amino-3-18F-
fluorocyclobutane-1-carboxylic acid) in comparison to 11C-choline 
PET/CT in the evaluation of subjects with suspected prostate cancer 
relapse 
A Retrospective Observational Study investigating the Safety and Effectiveness of Fluciclovine 
(18F) PET in Human Subjects. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main Inclusion Criteria: 
• Subjects with prostate cancer who have been treated with radical prostatectomy and/or radiotherapy at 
least three months prior to the baseline PET-CT scan 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 62/90 
  
  
 
• Subjects with a clinically suspected relapse of the disease, in accordance with American Society of 
Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO) criteria (Roach, 2006): 
o Three consecutive PSA increases, or 
o PSA increase of at least 2.0 mg/mL above the nadir level following radiotherapy, and/or 
o Absolute PSA level of 0.3 mg/mL or more after prostatectomy 
• Subjects who had already undergone conventional imaging (MRI, CT, 11C-choline PET/CT) 
• Age > 18 years Subjects who had signed the ICF at the NM Unit before any study procedure was carried 
out 
Main Exclusion Criteria: 
• Subjects who have had radical prostatectomy and/or radiotherapy less than three months prior 
• Age <18 years 
• Subjects who were unable to provide valid informed consent 
Objectives 
Primary: 
• To evaluate the sensitivity of fluciclovine (18F) (anti-3-18F-FACBC) PET/ computered tomography (CT) in 
comparison to 11C-choline in identifying a disease relapse. 
Secondary: 
• To evaluate the predictive value of PET/CT with fluciclovine (18F) (anti-3-18F-FACBC) in relation to 
progression of the disease 
• To evaluate and compare the specificity and diagnostic accuracy of anti-3-18F-FACBC PET/CT using the 
results obtained from biochemical, clinical and diagnostic tests carried out at baseline evaluation and at 
follow-up. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was to evaluate the sensitivity of fluciclovine (18F) (anti-3-18F-FACBC) PET/ computered 
tomography (CT) in comparison to 11C-choline in identifying a disease relapse. 
The secondary endpoint was: 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 63/90 
  
  
• 
• 
to evaluate the predictive value of PET/CT with fluciclovine (18F) (anti-3-18F-FACBC) in relation to 
progression of the disease 
to evaluate and compare the specificity and diagnostic accuracy of anti-3-18F-FACBC PET/CT using the 
results obtained from biochemical, clinical and diagnostic tests carried out at baseline evaluation and 
at follow-up 
Randomisation 
This study was non-randomised. 
Blinding (masking) 
This study was an open-labelled study. 
Results 
Numbers analysed 
97 fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans from N=88 patients with recurrent prostate cancer. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Comparison of Fluciclovine (18F) PET imaging with the results of 11C-Choline PET imaging at Subject level are 
summarised in the following Table: 
Table 24: 
Summary of Fluciclovine (18F) PET Imaging vs 11C-Choline PET Imaging –Subject 
Level 
Results 
n (%) 
Positive 
Indeterminate 
Negative 
11C-Choline 
Fluciclovine 
(18F) 
Positive 
31 (32.29%) 
1 (1.04%) 
6 (6.25%) 
Indeterminate 
0 
4 (4.17%) 
3 (3.13%) 
Negative 
5 (5.21%) 
6 (6.25%) 
40 (41.67%) 
Total 
36 
11 
49 
N =88 subjects /96 exposures analysed in the analysis set 
n= number of lesions meeting the criterion; % = n/number of lesions in analysis*100 
Agreement n (%) 75 (78.13 %) 
Disagreement n (%) 21 (21.88 %) 
Cohen’s Kappa = 0.62 [95% CI; 0.48, 0.76] p-value p = 0.0499 
Total 
(N=96) 
38 
7 
51 
96 
The results of PET imaging with fluciclovine (18F) showed a level of agreement with choline (11C) for 
malignant lesion uptake of 78.13% (75/96) (Cohen’s Kappa 0.62 [95% CI; 0.48, 0.76]; p = 0.0499) at 
Subject level.   
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 64/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 3: Blinded Reader Study BED002 
A Study to Conduct a Blinded Image Evaluation of Fluciclovine (18F) PET Images and to Evaluate 
Reader Training for the Interpretation and Inter-Rater Reproducibility of Reading Fluciclovine 
(18F) PET Scans 
• 
Study Objectives 
The second BED sponsored trial, BED-002, had several parallel objectives:  
• 
to test the success of a training program to enable readers with no prior experience of reading 
fluciclovine (18F) PET images to more proficiently read images collected using this tracer 
• 
conduct of a blinded image evaluation (BIE) of images from the 2 prospective studies in recurrent 
prostate cancer performed at Emory and Bologna University in order to compare diagnostic 
performance 
o 
o 
 to primary histopathological standard of truth and  
to 11C-Choline PET-CT using patient data provided for the companion protocol, BED-001.  
• 
Sample Size and Study participants  
Emory: N=121 fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans from 110 patients with recurrent prostate cancer, 
Bologna: N=96 fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans from 88 patients with recurrent prostate cancer. 
Table 25: 
Subject Disposition for Study BED-002 
• 
Primary endpoints 
Diagnostic  performance:  Positive  predictive  value  (PPV),  negative  predictive  value  (NPV),  sensitivity, 
specificity  and  detection  rate  are  calculated  where  possible  for  individual  readers  and  the  overall 
interpretation (2/3 readers concordance) using histopathological results from biopsy as a reference standard 
from the Emory data.  
The  Kappa  statistic  between  fluciclovine  (18F)  and  11C-Choline  was  calculated at  a  lesion  level  and  also at  a 
regional level for individual readers and the overall interpretation (2/3 readers concordance) compared to site 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 65/90 
  
  
 
 
read results of 11C-Choline scans from the Bologna data. For hypothesis testing a one-sided location test was 
used  to  do  a  confirmatory  assessment  of  the  agreement  data  with  the  set  of  hypotheses  (H0:  Kappa=0.50 
vs. H1: Kappa≥0.50). 
A  detailed  rule  for  2-out-of-3  reader  concordance  was  set  up  prior  to  the  study.  The  analysis  was  to  be 
performed at lesion, subject and at region level. Exact Confidence intervals were calculated using the method 
of  Clopper  and  Pearson  as  two-sided  95%  confidence  intervals.  Endpoints  and  analysis  methods  are 
considered appropriate. 
Analysis methods are considered appropriate when a type I error level of 0.025 is applied. 
• 
Study conduct 
In order to reduce potential bias as far as possible, image reads were performed without any knowledge of 
any patient data. 
Four readers, experienced in PET-CT, but without prior experience of reading images collected following use 
of fluciclovine (18F), were selected for participation from which three readers, each from a different centre 
and selected based on availability to complete reads at the ACR facility in Philadelphia were chosen to 
participate.  
Prior to conducting the blinded read, all readers underwent initial training using a standardized training 
protocol with example cases from the separate training set of images. Following completion of training with 
successful reader proficiency assessment, each reader was provided with the images from the Bologna and 
Emory data cohorts. The images were provided in a randomized sequence which was individualized for each 
reader such that no reader would read the scans in the same order. These scans were allocated a unique 
identifier specific to each reader, such that it was not possible to link these reports back to the site image 
read reports collected in BED-001. The randomization list was released only following database lock for study 
analysis.  
• 
Randomisation 
Individual subject images had different randomisation codes for each reader. The randomisation codes 
dictated the order in which the blinded readers viewed the image Datasets. 
• 
Blinding  
The independent readers were required to be blinded to medical history and outcome of the patients and 
their histopathology results, and also to results of on-site reads of the fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan images 
and of other imaging methods.  
• 
Outcomes 
The comparison of blinded read to on site histopathology results followed the same process as described for 
BED-001; PPV, NPV sensitivity and specificity were calculated and tested using a one sided binomial test.  
The lesion level analysis is summarized in the following Table 26: 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 66/90 
  
  
 
Table 26: 
Lesion Level Analysis BIE vs Histopathology Standard of Truth 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
Reader 3 
Overall 
BED001 On Site 
Read 
N 
PPV 
327 
361 
371 
357 
371 
98/156 (62.8%)* 
99/148 (66.9%)* 
75/110 (68.2%)* 
98/139 (70.5%) 
126/208 (60.6%)* 
[95%CI] 
[54.7, 70.4] 
[58.7, 74.4] 
[58.6, 76.7] 
[62.2, 77.9] 
[53.6, 67.3] 
NPV 
126/171 (73.7%)* 
157/213 (73.7%)* 
178/261 (68.2%)* 
163/218 (74.8%) 
131/163 (80.4%)* 
[95%CI] 
[66.4, 80.1] 
[67.3, 79.5] 
[62.2, 73.8] 
[68.5, 80.4] 
[73.4, 86.2] 
Sensitivity 
98/143 (68.5%)* 
99/155 (63.9%)* 
75/158 (47.5%) 
98/153 (64.1%) 
126/158 (79.7%)* 
[95%CI] 
[60.2, 76.0] 
[55.8, 71.4] 
[39.5, 55.6] 
[55.9, 71.6] 
[72.6, 85.7] 
Specificity 
126/184 (68.5%)* 
157/206 (76.2%)* 
178/213 (83.6%)* 
163/204 (79.9%) 
131/213 (61.5%)* 
[95%CI] 
[61.2, 75.1] 
[69.8, 81.9] 
[77.9, 88.3] 
[73.7, 85.2] 
[54.6, 68.1] 
* p<0.05 
Differences between readers were noted; however, these did not result in significantly different outcomes 
among readers. Reader 3 consistently reported fewer positive lesions than readers 1 and 2 and reported a 
higher proportion of false negative outcomes. 
Primary Effectiveness vs Histopathological Standard of Truth (Emory Data) 
The primary effectiveness endpoints vs histopathological standard of truth (SOT) were calculated using 
images taken at Emory University vs histopathological results from Emory University as reference standard of 
truth. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV were derived and analysed at Lesion, Region and Subject level for 
individual readers and the overall interpretation. 
At Lesion level, PPV and NPV significantly exceeded 50% for all three readers. Sensitivity and specificity 
significantly exceeded 50% for 2/3 readers (Reader 3’s sensitivity score was 47.5%).  
For Region 1 (Prostate and Prostate Bed) PPV and NPV significantly exceed 50% for all three readers. 
Sensitivity significantly exceeded 50% for all three readers, whilst specificity exceeded 50% in 1/3 readers. 
For Region 2 (Pelvic Lymph Nodes), PPV and sensitivity outcomes significantly exceeded 50% for all three 
readers. No data are presented for NPV and specificity since the number of subjects with negative standard of 
truth was insufficient to support these analyses. 
For Region 3 (Other Nodal, Bone or Soft Tissues), PPV significantly exceeded 50% for all three readers. 
Sensitivity exceeded 50% for all three readers. 
In a combined analysis of all data from extraprostatic sites of recurrence, PPV and sensitivity significantly 
exceeded 50% for all three readers. No data are presented for NPV and specificity outcomes since the 
number of subjects with negative standard of truth was insufficient to support these analyses. 
At Subject level PPV, NPV and sensitivity significantly exceed 50% for all three readers, whilst specificity 
exceeded 50% in 1/3 readers. The subject detection rate (number of subjects with a positive PET-CT scan) 
was 84.3%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 67/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27: 
Subject Level diagnostic performance of blinded reading of fluciclovine (18F) PET-
CT vs Histopathology (Emory) 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
Reader 3 
Overall 
PPV 
NPV 
Sens 
Spec 
74/98 (75.5%) 
71/94 (75.5%) 
62/75 (82.7%) 
67/85 (78.8%) 
5/5 (100.0%) 
7/10   (70.0%) 
15/23 (65.2%) 
10/16 (62.5%) 
74/74 (100.0%) 
71/74 (95.9%) 
62/70 (88.6%) 
67/73 (91.8%) 
5/29   (17.2%) 
7/30   (23.3%) 
15/28 (53.6%) 
10/28 (35.7%) 
Study 4:  Blinded Reader Study BED007 
A Study to Conduct an Image Evaluation of 11C Choline PET Images from the Bologna study 
Kappa values were <0.5 for all comparisons at lesion, region or subject level, which means that the 
comparison of blinded image evaluation read fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans to the blinded expert read 11C-
Choline scans failed to demonstrate concordance at lesion, region or subject level. 
Insofar, the comparison of BIE read fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans to the blinded expert read choline (11C) 
scans failed to demonstrate concordance at lesion, region or subject level with Kappa values <0.5 in all 
cases.  
Consensus Meeting 
Before the conduct of the blinded reader studies BED002 and BED007 on 23 June to 24 June 2014, a 
fluciclovine reader consensus meeting was held in Bologna, Italy. Six investigators and an independent 
PET/CT reader without experience in fluciclovine reading were participating. They were involved to set a 
consensus plan on image reading and the image scanning procedure. 
According to the SmPC an acquisition time of 3 minutes per bed position is recommended. An acquisition 
time 2 min however led to low quality pictures which were difficult to interpret. According to the literature, 
reduction in acquisition time from 5 to 2 minutes is associated with a significant reduction in image quality18. 
Impact on diagnostic thinking and on patient management 
Impact on diagnostic thinking and/or on patient management has to be demonstrated as outlined in Section 
4.2.3 of the CHMP Guideline for Clinical Evaluation of Diagnostic Agents (CPMP/EWP/1119/98/Rev. 1). This is 
usually done in the framework of a clinical study. In this application for marketing authorisation the 
demonstration of clinical usefulness currently is only demonstrated by some short paragraphs summing up 
some papers from the literature. Particularly Schuster et al. observed stage change in his prospective study 
of patients with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer. Fluciclovine (18F) correctly identified 14 more 
positive prostate bed recurrences (55 vs 41) and 18 more patients with extraprostatic involvement (22 vs 4). 
As a result fluciclovine (18F) correctly upstaged recurrence in 18 of 70 patients (25.7%).  
18 Brown C, Dempsey M-F, Gillen G and Elliott AT. Investigation of 18F FDG 3D mode PET image quality and acquisition time. Nuc 
Med Comm 2010; 31: 254-9. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 68/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Impact of PSA value on fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan performance 
With respect to the impact of PSA value on fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan performance, PSA value impacted 
on diagnostic performance on fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan in BED-001 study.  Focusing on the 99 patients 
with histopathological confirmation at Emory University in study BED-001, fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan 
cannot be recommended for recurrence imaging in patients with biochemical recurrence after treatment with 
curative intent and PSA-level ≤1.05 (ng/mL).  When PSA was ≤1.05 (ng/mL) (n=16), patient-based 
sensitivity and specificity were 75% and 66.7%, respectively.  For PSA >1.05 - ≤3.98 (n=31), values were 
100% and 37.5%, respectively.  Sensitivity and specificity were 100% and 20% (n=25) when PSA was >3.98 
- ≤8.90.  Sensitivity of 100% was obtained when PSA was >8.90 (n=27).   
The impact of PSA value on fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan performance, the analysis at subject level is 
summarised in Table 28. 
Table 28: 
Overall Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT Scan Performance by PSA Quartile for the Entire 
Emory Site Recurrent Prostate Cancer Population in BED-001 (Subject Level) 
≤1.05 
>1.05 - ≤3.98  >3.98 - ≤8.90 
>8.90 
PSA (ng/mL) 
27 
23 (85.2) 
4 (14.8) 
23/27 
(85.2) 
[66.3, 95.8] 
0.0002 
No. subj in analysis 
16 
31 
True Positive (%) 
3 (18.8) 
23 (74.2) 
False Positive (%) 
4 (25.0) 
5 (16.1) 
True Negative (%) 
8 (50.0) 
False Negative (%) 
1 (6.3) 
3/7 
3 (9.7) 
0 (0.0) 
23/28 
25 
20 (80) 
4 (16.0) 
1 (4.0) 
0 (0.0) 
20/24 
PPV 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
NPV 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
Sensitivity 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
Specificity 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
Detection Rate 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
(42.9) 
[9.9, 81.6] 
(82.1) 
[63.1, 93.9] 
(83.3) 
[62.6, 95.3] 
0.5000 
0.0005 
8/9 
3/3 
0.0008 
1/1 
(88.9) 
[51.8, 99.7] 
(100.0) 
[29.2, 100.0] 
(100.0) 
[2.5, 100.0] 
0.0195 
3/4 
0.1250 
23/23 
0.5000 
20/20 
23/23 
(75.0) 
[19.4, 99.4] 
(100.0) 
[85.2, 100.0] 
(100.0) 
[83.2, 100.0] 
(100.0) 
[85.2, 100.0] 
0.3125 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
8/12 
3/8 
1/5 
(66.7) 
[34.9, 90.1] 
(37.5) 
[8.5, 75.5] 
(20.0) 
[0.5, 71.6] 
0.1938 
7/16 
0.6367 
28/31 
0.8125 
24/25 
27/27 
Page 69/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
(43.8) 
[19.8, 70.1] 
(90.3) 
[74.2, 98.0] 
(96.0) 
[79.6, 99.9] 
(100.0) 
[87.2, 100.0] 
0.5982 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Clinical efficacy of fluciclovine (18F) should be demonstrated in accordance with the Guideline on Clinical 
Evaluation of Diagnostic Agents (Doc. Ref. CPMP/EWP/1119/98/Rev. 1, 23 July 2009). Therefore, adequate 
technical and diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) in relation to a standard of truth and to an 
established comparator in the clinical context in which the diagnostic agent is to be used should be 
concluded. Moreover, as fluciclovine (18F) itself may have immediate therapeutic implications, relevant impact 
on diagnostic thinking and/or patient management in the appropriate clinical context should have been 
demonstrated as well.   
Approximately  40%  of  patients  after  potentially  curative  therapy  for  prostate  carcinoma  will  develop 
recurrent  disease  accompanied  by  elevated  prostate  specific  antigen  (PSA)  levels.  Accurately  detecting  the 
presence  of  disease  confined  to  the  prostate  bed  versus  that  of  extraprostatic  spread  to  lymph  nodes,  soft 
tissue, bone or visceras has profound treatment implications.  Excluding recurrences is also crucial. 
The 370 MBq dose for fluciclovine (18F) was generally well tolerated and provided a radiation exposure similar 
to other PET radiopharmaceuticals approved for oncological indications. Studies in Japan incorporated lower 
doses but extrapolation to Caucasian populations in the EU and USA is not possible as the BMIs differ 
substantially. 
In the clinical development program of fluciclovine (18F) the company attempted to demonstrate the 
diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT against histopathology report (from biopsy or surgical 
specimen) as standard of truth and Prostascint as comparator (Emory) and against (11C) choline (Bologna). 
The use of histology is considered the gold standard, an acceptable standard of truth and is in line with the 
advice provided in the CHMP Guideline for clinical evaluation of diagnostic Agents 
(CPMP/EWP/1119/98/Rev.1). However, Prostascint (used in Emory) nor choline (11C) (used in Bologna) could 
be considered accepted comparators as they are not registered in the EU. 
Emory study recruited patients originally with localized disease and T3 patients; however, it is not expected 
that diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT is influenced since patients would have been treated 
accordingly at the time of primary treatment before fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT. 
Exclusion in the Emory study of patients under treatment with radiation/cryotherapy in the past 2 years has 
been justified as to ensure that all patients scanned truly represented biochemical recurrence, and not a PSA 
bounce. 
In addition, fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT images derived from BED001 were obtained from each institution, and 
were re-read by independent readers in blind to clinical information (study BED-002). These readers were 
naïve to the use of fluciclovine (18F) but underwent a training programme prior to conducting image 
evaluation of study images. The independent read data then also compared to a) histopathology (Emory) and 
b) 11C-choline PET (Bologna). It is acknowledged that the blinded reader study BED-002 Emory can be 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 70/90 
  
  
 
 
considered as supportive evidence on the image reading and evaluation process in study BED-001 Emory but 
not the BED-002 Bologna since choline (11C) cannot be considered an acceptable comparator.  For this same 
reason, blinded re-reading of choline (11C) PET scans of the Bologna study by an independent expert reader 
performed in study BED-007 cannot provide supportive data of efficacy of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT. Data 
from the pooled analysis in BED-001 Emory has been subjected to a variety of post-hoc subgroup analyses 
evaluating the impact of various demographic features on scan performance. Subgroup comparisons included 
age, race, prior treatment for prostate cancer, Gleason score of the primary tumour, D’Amico risk score of 
the primary tumour, concomitant therapy (including androgen deprivation therapy) and PSA values at the 
time of scanning, which were considered acceptable subgroup comparisons. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Diagnostic performance from the BED001 Emory study 
The PPV of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT, using biopsy as SOT, significantly exceeded 50% at Lesion, Region and 
Subject level, exceeding 90% at Region 2 (pelvic lymph nodes) (95.8%) and Region 4 (extraprostatic) 
(93.1%), and was statistically significant in each case. A sensitivity analysis allocating the indeterminate 
lesions as either positive or negative had no statistically significant bearing on the results. NPV was 80.4% at 
Lesion level and 92.3% at both Subject level and Region level (Region 1). Sensitivity values were higher than 
98% at subject level and Region 1 (prostate/prostate bed), Region 2 and Region 4; it was 80% at lesion 
level.  Specificity was 38.7% at Subject level and 30.8% at Region 1, and 61.5% at Lesion level. NPV and 
specificity analyses were not conducted at Regions 2 and 4 since the number of subjects with negative 
standard of truth was insufficient. Therefore, fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT met the success criteria for patient-
based sensitivity (higher than 80%), with an excellent result of 98.6% (95%CI: 92.7-100)) while specificity 
was really disappointing and very far away for the anticipated one (90%) and the success criteria (higher 
than 80%).   
The detection rate (DR) exceeded 80% at Subject and Region level (p<0.0001), and was 100% for Regions 2 
and 4. The DR at lesion level was 56.1%. Sensitivity analysis had no statistically significant bearing on the 
data. Detection rate (i.e. positivity rate) is a variable of no clinical interest since it refers only to the number 
of scans considered as positive versus the total number of scans performed.  It is not related to the 
histological result of the positive findings and therefore not relevant in terms of demonstrating diagnostic 
performace of the product. 
The calculated positive likelihood ratio of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT to detect recurrences was 1.61 and 
negative likelihood ratio of 0.035 at the subject level.  The larger the positive likelihood ratio, the greater the 
likelihood of disease while the smaller the negative likelihood ratio, the lesser the likelihood of disease. As a 
consequence, this test seems to be poor at confirming suspected recurrence of prostate cancer but excellent 
to exclude suspected recurrence of prostate cancer since a negative result on a fluciclivine scan is almost 
sure to show a true negative. 
Using the findings of other relevant imaging modalities, the PPV of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning 
significantly exceeded 50% in Regions 1 – 3 in all but 1 instance. The lowest agreement was approximately 
64% in Region 1 and the highest was 100% in Regions 2 and 3, for fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT vs MRI in each 
instance. Agreement between fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT and unenhanced CT scanning was 18% in Region 1, 
due to the poor detection of prostate lesions by unenhanced CT.  
Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning detected more sites of prostate cancer recurrence than the other imaging 
modalities. This superior performance was most apparent in Region 1 (Prostate and Prostate bed) where 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 71/90 
  
  
fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scanning identified 9 more positive lesions than unenhanced CT scanning and 3 and 
4 more than enhanced CT scanning and MRI, respectively. 
Sub-group analyses revealed that there was no obvious impact of age, race, prior cancer treatment, and 
Gleason score or D’Amico risk score of the primary tumour on fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan performance.  
Concerning the impact of PSA value on fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scan performance, there was generally a 
lower sensitivity in subjects in the first quartile of PSA values (PSA≤1.05 ng/mL) compared to PSA levels 
above 1.05 ng/mL. This was related to the number of true positives which was much lower (18.8%) in 
patients with PSA values <1.05 ng/mL compared to PSA values >1.05 - ≤ 3.98 ng/mL (74.2%) and patients 
with PSA value above 3.98 ng/mL (80-85.2%). Specificity was generally low for any PSA value but more so in 
patients with PSA values above 1.05 ng/mL. Therefore, there is a warning stated in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that the PSA value may affect the diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) PET. (see section 5.1, 
Pharmacodynamic properties). 
False-positive and false-negative results of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT were discussed. The majority of false 
positive and false negative scans reported were from findings in the prostate/prostate bed. There were 19 
false positive cases, and the majority of the patients had been previously treated with radiotherapy. Review 
of these cases indicated that the histopathology report showed ‘radiation artefact’. There was 1 patient with 
fibrous tissue and 1 patient with inflammatory response in a cryotherapied tissue there were no false 
positives or false negatives from local regional nodal lesions biopsied.Therefore, the SmPC contains a 
statement in section 4.4 that false-positive cases have been also attributed to fibrous tissue, inflammatory 
response in a cryotherapied tissue and radiation artefacts in patients previously treated with radiotherapy. 
Diagnostic performance from the BED002 study 
In supportive study BED-002 with central blinded reading of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT images, patient-based 
sensitivity values to detect suspected prostate cancer recurrence versus histopathology were high (i.e. 91.8% 
(67/73) overall and higher than 88% for all three readers), just a little lower than sensitivity obtained using 
the onsite read findings (98.6%).  And specificity values were disappointing, both overall (35.7%) and for 
each reader (17.2-53.6%), as it happened for the onsite read.  In the total of 58 lesions in the prostatic 
region and histological proof, overall sensitivity and specificity was 91.4% and 48.7%, respectively (with the 
onsite read respective values were of 98.3% and 30.8%).  In the extra-prostatic region in which 26 lesions 
had histopthological proof of involvement, overall sensitivity was 88.5% for the blinded re-reads (and 100% 
for the onsite reads) with specificity not evaluable.   
Impact on diagnostic thinking and/or on patient management 
Generally, a well-designed post-authorization prospective study is required to assess the impact of 
fluciclovine (18F) on the diagnostic thinking and patient management in the intended clinical context and 
intended population and ideally versus the impact of an established comparator. There are however, two 
ongoing company-sponsored studies BED-003 and BED-004 to assess the impact on the patient management 
of fluciclovine (18F) in patients with suspicion of recurrent prostate carcinoma after presumed definitive 
therapy for primary disease based on raised PSA values.  The full protocol of these studies was provided. 
None is addressing the impact on the diagnostic thinking, which will remain unknown, but study BED-004 will 
also analyze the impact on clinical outcome. Both studies are crucial to know the clinical efficacy of this 
radiopharmaceutical in the clinical context in which is intended to be used.  The CHMP recommends the 
applicant to provide study results from both trials as soon as they are available.   
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 72/90 
  
  
 
Interpretation of fluciclovine (18F) images and limitations of use 
Fluciclovine (18F) images should be interpreted visually by appropriately trained personnel. 
Quantitative/semiquantitative measurement of fluciclovine (18F) uptake should not be used for clinical 
interpretation of these images as the impact of quantitative/semiquantitative measurement of fluciclovine 
(18F) uptake as an aid to image interpretation has not been assessed. 
PET images with fluciclovine (18F) should be interpreted visually. Suspicion of cancer in sites typical for 
prostate cancer recurrence is based on fluciclovine (18F) uptake in comparison with tissue background. For 
small lesions (<1 cm diameter) focal uptake greater than blood pool should be considered suspicious for 
cancer. For larger lesions, uptake equal to or greater than bone marrow is considered suspicious for cancer. 
Image interpretation errors can occur with PET with fluciclovine (18F) (see section 5.1).   
Fluciclovine (18F) uptake is not specific for prostate cancer and may occur with other types of cancer, 
prostatitis and benign prostatic hyperplasia. False-positive cases have been also described in association with 
an inflammatory response after cryotherapy and radiation artefacts in patients previously treated with 
radiotherapy. Clinical correlation, which may include histopathological evaluation of the suspected recurrence 
site, should be considered where appropriate. 
The use of either intravenous iodinated CT contrast or oral contrast media is not required to interpret 
fluciclovine (18F) PET images. 
Diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) to detect recurrences has not been investigated in patients with a 
suspected recurrence based on elevated blood PSA levels after primary radical treatment and with a recent 
positive whole-body bone scintigraphy.  
The detection of prostate cancer recurrence in prostate/prostate bed, regional lymph nodes, bone, soft tissue 
and non-regional lymph nodes by fluciclovine (18F) PET has been reported. However, no evidence has been 
provided of prostate cancer recurrence in other regions of the body. 
For each patient, the radiation exposure must be justifiable by the likely benefit. The activity administered 
should, in every case, be as low as reasonably achievable to obtain the required diagnostic information.  
For information on use in the paediatric population, see section 4.2 of the SmPC.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The BED001 Emory study showed that fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT has an excellent overall sensitivity of 98.6% 
but a low specificity of 38.7% (considering combined local, regional lymph nodes and distant sites) in relation 
to a standard of truth (histology report from biopsy or surgical specimen) to detect prostate cancer 
recurrences in patients with a suspected recurrence based on elevated blood PSA levels after curative 
treatment of the localised primary tumour. All patients had a recent negative whole-body bone scintigraphy.  
No data on patients with distant recurrence in other regions of the body apart from non-regional lymph 
nodes, bone or soft tissue was provided. Fluciclovine (18F) images should be interpreted visually. 
Additional results of the reader study BED002 supported the primary findings as the scans were compared 
with histopathology, an acceptable standard of truth. False-positive cases have been described in prostate or 
prostate bed. 
Therefore, taking into account the data from the BED001 Emory study as well as the blinded reading in 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 73/90 
  
  
 
BED002, the technical and diagnostic performance of fluciclovine to detect the sites of recurrence in prostate 
cancer patients that have suspected recurrence based on PSA levels after primary curative treatment can be 
considered demonstrated.  
The CHMP recommends the following measures to assess the impact of fluciclovine (18F) on diagnostic 
thinking and patient management: 
• 
Impact  on  diagnostic  thinking  and/or  on  patient  management  in  the  intended  clinical  context  and 
intended population to be further evaluated in currently running studies, BED-003 and BED-004.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Safety  data  relevant  for  characterisation  of  the  fluciclovine’s  safety  profile  is  derived  from  seven  completed 
sponsored  studies,  six  of  which  were  prospective  studies  and  additional  patients  from  the  company’s  open 
access  program.  Safety  is  evaluated  for  the  retrospective  observational  study  (BED001)  which  collected 
safety data from all patients available at the four centres in the US (1 site) and EU (Italy (1 site) and Norway 
(2 sites).  
The following table provides an overview about these clinical studies and the subjects included: 
Table 29: 
Summary of clinical studies with fluciclovine (18F) solution for injection 
Study & 
Control drugs  
Objectives/endpoints  
Study No./ 
Sponsor  
Phase I  
GE148-001  
GE 
Healthcare  
Study Design   Population  
Open label, 
single dose  
Healthy 
volunteers  
Primary 
prostate 
cancer  
No. Subj  
Enrolled/  
Evaluablefor 
Safety  
6/6  
[3M/3F]  
6/6  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
NMK36-P1  
NMP  
Open label, 
single dose  
Healthy 
volunteers  
6/6  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
Safety, biodistribution, 
kinetics and dosimetry in 
HVs  
Safety, uptake and 
retention in biopsy-proven 
prostate cancer  
Safety, kinetics, 
biodistribution and 
dosimetry  
Open label, 
single dose  
Phase II prospective studies in prostate cancer  
GE148-002  
GE 
Healthcare  
NMK36-PC-
201  
NMP  
NMK36-PC-
202  
NMP  
Open label, two 
dose, single 
administration  
Open label, 
single dose  
25/22  
11/10  
72/68  
Primary 
prostate 
cancer  
Primary 
prostate 
cancer  
Primary 
prostate 
cancer 
patients and 
patients with 
advanced 
primary 
disease and 
known 
metastases  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
Safety and proof of 
concept efficacy data  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
Safety, dose ranging and 
proof of concept efficacy 
data  
Efficacy and safety in 
untreated prostate cancer 
subjects destined for 
prostatectomy or hormone 
therapy.  
Phase II prospective studies in glioma  
Open label, 
NMK36-BT-
single dose  
201  
NMP  
Phase III retrospective observational study in prostate and other cancers  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
Glioma  
5/5  
Safety, dose ranging and 
proof of concept efficacy 
data  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 74/90 
  
  
BED001  
Retrospective, 
observational  
714/714  
Fluciclovine 
(18F)  
Recurrent & 
primary 
prostate 
cancer  
Breast cancer  
Retrospective 
observational safety and 
effectiveness study of 
patients exposed to 
fluciclovine (18F)  
As  most  of  the  trials  in  this  application  are  small  and  included  also  in  the  BED001 population,  main  safety 
information can be derived from this analysis.  
Patient exposure 
Safety data in this application includes information from a total of 837 subjects as follows:  
• 12 healthy volunteers (studies GE148-001 (n=6) and NMK36-P1 (n=6))  
• 596 males diagnosed with recurrent prostate cancer (study BED001 (n=596))  
• 201 males diagnosed with primary prostate cancer (studies GE148-001 (n=6), GE148-002 (n=22), 
NMK36-PC-201 (n=10); NMK36-PC-202 (n= 68); and BED001 (n=95)  
• 28 subjects diagnosed with other types of cancer (NMK36-BT-201: glioma (n = 5); study BED001: 
breast cancer (n=9), parathyroid adenoma (n=3), glioma (n=9) and other (n=2)).  
The mean (± SD) dose of fluciclovine (18F) in the BED001 study across the 4 sites was 309.18 (± 60.640) 
MBq and the median dose was 305.65 MBq. 
In all the GE and NMP sponsored studies, fluciclovine (18F) was given as a single administration. In the 
BED001 study, experience from repeat use of the radiopharmaceutical was noted. Subjects here received up 
to 5 administrations of fluciclovine (18F). 
Adverse events 
Events  which  may  be  considered  to  be  related  to  administration  of  fluciclovine  (18F)  include:  transient 
dysgeusia,  injection  site  reactions  (pain,  redness  at  injection  site),  parosmia.  The  following  table  describes 
the ADRs observed with fluciclovine. Adverse reactions were reported commonly (≥  1/100 to < 1/10) during 
clinical trials. They are listed below by MedDRA body system organ class. 
Table 30: 
Adverse Reactions to Fluciclovine 
System Organ 
Class/Preferre
d Term 
Frequency 
Number of Subjects 
(%) Total N = 
Intensity 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
Any event 
General disorders and 
administration site 
Injection-site reactions 
Nervous system disorders 
Dysgeusia 
Respiratory Organ, Thoracic 
and Mediastinal Disorders 
Parosmia 
12 (1%) 
7 (0.6%) 
7 (0.6%) 
4 (0.3%) 
4 (0.4%) 
2 (0.2%) 
2 (0.2%) 
12 
7 
7 
3 
3 
2 
2 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 75/90 
  
  
 
 
 
Injection  side  pain  may  be  induced  by  the  higher  osmolality  of  the  product  of  about  520  mOsm/Kg.  Most 
important, there were no reports of hypersensitivity reactions from the exposed patients. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No serious adverse events were reported in the GE or NMP-sponsored studies.  
In  the  retrospective  trial  BED-001,  two  patients  experienced  a  serious  adverse  event  within  the  month 
following exposure to fluciclovine (18F). 
None of these events was considered to be related to fluciclovine (18F). 
No deaths were reported in any study or for any patient exposure, including within 35 days of administration 
of fluciclovine (18F) in the BED001 study. 
Laboratory findings 
Table 31:  
Change from Baseline Haematology Values 
Haemo-
globin 
[g/dL] 
N=134 
-0.40 
1.23 
-0.10 
-5.5; 
+1.6 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min;Max 
HCT 
[%] 
N=105 
RBC 
1012/L 
N=102 
MCV 
[fL] 
N=101 
MCH 
[pg] 
N=101 
MCHC 
[g/dL] 
N=100 
WBC 
[109/L] 
N=125 
ANC 
[109/L] 
N-42 
PLT 
[109/L] 
N=124 
-1.39 
3.37 
-0.50 
-17.0; 
+6.1 
-0.165 
0.46 
-0.09 
-2.36; 
+0.63 
-0.04 
1.04 
0 
-2.6; 
+3.1 
0.02 
0.62 
0 
-3.0; 
+1.4 
0.05 
0.62 
0.05 
-2.0; 
+1.6 
0.16 
2.433 
-0.10 
-11.5; 
+11.4 
-0.05 
1.38 
0.02 
-5.80; 
+2.60 
-5.1 
26.03 
-5.0 
-85; 
+112 
Table 32:  
Change from Baseline Biochemistry Values 
Urea 
[mmol/L] 
N=98 
0.06 
1.42 
-0.00 
-4.61; 
+4.99 
Creati-
nine 
[umol/L] 
N=129 
1.21 
16.74 
0.88 
-40.6; 
+129 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min;Max 
ALT 
[U/L] 
N=102 
AST 
[U/L] 
N=94 
ALP 
[U/L] 
N=106 
BILI 
[umol/L] 
N=25 
Na 
[mmol/L] 
N=111 
K 
[mmol/L] 
N=112 
-1.8 
5.51 
-1.5 
-25;  +20 
-0.6 
6.2 
0.0 
-23;  +22 
0.7 
18.59 
-1.0 
-24;  +174 
-0.38 
4.99 
0.00 
-17; +8.55 
-0.3 
2.41 
0.0 
-7;               
+5 
-0.01 
0.44 
0.0 
-0.8; +1.7 
Cl 
[mmol/L] 
N=95 
Ca 
[mmol/L] 
N=108 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min;Max 
0.5 
2.78 
1.0 
-7;             +7 
-0.05 
0.15 
0.03 
-1.03; +0.20 
Random 
glucose 
[mmol/L] 
N=51 
0.36 
1.71 
0.33 
-4.37; +5.86 
CO 2 H 
[mmol/L] 
N=88 
Cr Cl 
[ml/min] 
N=58 
GFR 
[mL/min] 
N=86 
-0.3 
2.75 
-0.5 
-7;             
+10 
1.02 
15.31 
1.75 
-72.2; +45.8 
0.64 
10.71 
0.90 
-31.95; 30.54 
Table 33:  
Urinalysis 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Specific Gravity 
N=75 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
pH 
N=75 
0.06 
1.01 
0.00 
Page 76/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Min;Max 
-0.02; +0.02 
-2.5; +2.5 
No  clinically  significant  abnormalities  of  vital  signs  or  ECGs  attributable  to  fluciclovine  (18F)  administration 
were observed in the GE and NMP sponsored trials. 
Safety in special populations 
The number of exposures of fluciclovine (18F) in the elderly population and their profile of related adverse 
reactions in the safety database was provided. 
Since the first dose in humans to 27th November 2016, an estimated 2638 subjects have received at least 
one dose of fluciclovine. Exposure has accumulated from completed/ongoing sponsored studies (N=1153), 
special use license in Norway (N=1141), post marketing commercial use in the USA (N=118) and ongoing 
investigator sponsored studies (N=226). 
In the elderly population, the company initially provided with the safety information from the exposure of 
fluciclovine (18F) only from the company-sponsored trial BED-001 (n=405).  A total of 12 in BED-001, 
independently of age, were described: 
•  9 extravasation (potentially due to poor injection technique under the company’s view) 
•  1 case of malaise, pain, constipation (all in 1 patient), decreased haemoglobin (1 patient) and increased 
creatinine (1 patient) that the company consider not related to fluciclovine (18F) but to other contrast 
agents or concomitant diseases.  These are considered not related to flucicovine (18F) but to the 
concomitant use of diagnostic agents or concomitant diseases by the company 
The overall exposure up to January 2017 in the two currently ongoing company-sponsored trials BED-003 
and BED-004 and nine trials sponsored by other companies have been now reported.   This increase the 
overall safety database in 438 patients from which 224 were patients aged at least 65 years.  The related 
adverse events in the overall population included were 12: 
•  7 subjects with injection site reactions, 6 of which occurred in patients aged >65 years. 
•  5 subjects with dysgeusia and/or parosmia. 
The applicant does not know how many doses of fluciclovine (18F) have been administered spefically in elderly 
in the special use licensed in Norway (N=1141), postmarketing commercial use in the USA (N=118) and 
ongoing investigator sponsored studies (N=226).  However, only 1 adverse event was reported and 
considered by the investigator as unrelated to receipt of fluciclovine. 
Therefore, the applicant has updated the safety table including only 12 cases (1%) from the 
ongoing/completed sponsored studies (N=1153), related adverse events are 7 injection-site reactions, and 3 
cases of dysgeusia and 2 parosmia.   
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The  applicant  stated  that  no  human  studies  of  potential  drug  interactions  have  been  conducted  to  date. 
Furthermore,  no  suggestion  of  drug  interactions  has  been  detected  in  the  clinical  data  submitted  in  this 
application. Fluciclovine (18F) is not subject to metabolism and is not a substrate for renal drug transporters 
and therefore drug interactions would not be expected. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 77/90 
  
  
 
 
Furthermore, nor safety issues are raised from assessment with respect to the other categories listed in this 
section (potential drug abuse, withdrawal and rebound, as well as with respect to effects on ability to drive or 
operate machinery or impairment of mental ability). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
There were no adverse events which led to study discontinuation in any of the studies.  
Post marketing experience 
See section on specialpopulations. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, the sample exposed to a single administration of fluciclovine (18F) in the safety database is 596 
males diagnosed with recurrent prostate cancer (study BED001 (n=596) and 201 males diagnosed with 
primary prostate cancer [studies GE148-001 (n=6), GE148-002 (n=22), NMK36-PC-201 (n=10); NMK36-PC-
202 (n= 68); and BED001 (n=95)].  
The mean (± SD) dose of fluciclovine (18F) in the BED001 study across the 4 sites was 309.18 (± 60.640) 
MBq whereas the recommended activity for an adult is 370MBq fluciclovine. This activity is well in the range 
of a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical and no dose-effects are expected. 
Fluciclovine (18F) was generally well tolerated. ADRs of fluciclovine (18F) include: transient dysgeusia, 
injection site reactions (pain, redness at injection site), nausea, malaise, constipation and headache. Overall, 
these events are rare, occurring in ≤ 0.2% of patients exposed to fluciclovine (18F). Most important, there 
were no reports of hypersensitivity reactions from the exposed patients.  
No deaths and only two serious adverse events have been reported; none of the SAEs was considered related 
to the study drug, the administration, or the imaging procedure. 
There were small changes in lab parameters and vital signs, but most appeared non-detrimental and of no 
clinical relevance.  
The human radiation dosimetry of Fluciclovine (18F) yields an effective dose of 22 μSv/MBq. The results of 
weight-adjusted calculations show no significant differences over the range of 50 to 80 kg body mass. 
Therefore no dose adjustments on patient’s weight were done. 
Specifications related to radiation protection in the context of manipulation and elimination of the 
radiopharmaceutical by healthcare professionals, and radiation protection for the family, as appearing in the 
SmPC in section 6.6 were considered appropriate and in accordance with those approved for other fluorine 
(18F) radiopharmaceuticals. 
Safety information for repeated injections is limited (up to 5); however, no worsening of adverse event of 
other signal for increase of toxicity was reported.  
The product currently is not intended to be used in women. Therefore no special requirements are foreseen 
for pregnancy and lactation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 78/90 
  
  
Axumin has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and no specific safety data in 
patients with impaired renal function or impaired hepatic function have been provided. In these cases, the 
higher irradiation in the body caused by slower hepatic and/or renal clearance of the radiopharmaceutical 
itself or their radioactive metabolites should be taken into account. Careful consideration of the benefit/risk 
ratio in these patients is required since an increased radiation exposure is possible. 
Exposure to ionising radiation is linked with cancer induction and a potential for development of hereditary 
defects. As the effective dose is 8.2 mSv when the maximal recommended activity of 370 MBq is 
administered these adverse reactions are expected to occur with a low probability. The important potential 
risk of contact with radiation (carcinogenic and hereditary risk) has beenincluded in the RMP. 
Fluciclovine (18F) has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
In the event of administration of a radiation overdose with fluciclovine (18F) the absorbed dose to the patient 
should be reduced where possible by increasing the elimination of the radionuclide from the body by forced 
diuresis, frequent micturition and defecation. It might be helpful to estimate the effective dose that was 
applied. 
Fluciclovine is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to the active substance(s) or to any of the 
excipients listed in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The patient should be encouraged to drink sufficient amounts and void as often as possible during the first 
hours after the scan in order to reduce radiation exposure of the bladder. 
Close contact with infants and pregnant women should be restricted during the initial 12 hours following the 
injection.  
This medicinal product contains up to 39 mg sodium per dose. To be taken into consideration by patients on 
a controlled sodium diet.  
General warning  
Radiopharmaceuticals should be received, used and administered only by authorised persons in designated 
clinical settings. Their receipt, storage, use, transfer and disposal are subject to the regulations and/or 
appropriate licences of the competent official organisation.  
Radiopharmaceuticals should be prepared in a manner which satisfies both radiation safety and 
pharmaceutical quality requirements. Appropriate aseptic precautions should be taken. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 12. 
If at any time in the preparation of this medicinal product the integrity of the vial is compromised it should 
not be used.  
Administration procedures should be carried out in a way to minimise risk of contamination of the medicinal 
product and irradiation of the operators. Adequate shielding is mandatory.   
The administration of radiopharmaceuticals creates risks for other persons from external radiation or 
contamination from spill of urine, vomiting etc. Radiation protection precautions in accordance with national 
regulations must therefore be taken.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 79/90 
  
  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
Storage of radiopharmaceuticals should be in accordance with national regulation on radioactive materials. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
No serious adverse reactions have been observed during the conduct of the clinical studies. Exposure to 
ionising radiation is linked with cancer induction and a potential for development of hereditary defects. As the 
effective dose of fluciclovine (18F) is 8.2 mSv, there is a low probability for any effects resulting from ionising 
radiation when the maximal recommended activity of 370 MBq is administered. The safety has been 
adequately characterised and considered acceptable. 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns 
Table 34: 
Summary of the Safety Concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
• 
Injection site reactions  
Important potential risks 
•  PET imaging interpretation errors 
•  Off-label use  
•  Risk due to contact with radiation (carcinogenic and hereditary risk) 
Missing information 
•  Patients with impaired renal function 
•  Patients with impaired hepatic function 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance is 
sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 35: 
Summary table of risk minimisation measures by safety concerns 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Important identified risks 
Injection site reactions 
Ensure awareness. 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 80/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Appropriate statements and warnings are 
included in the product information. 
SmPC 4.2. Posology 
SmPC 4.8. Undesirable effects 
PIL 3. What you need to know before you 
use Axumin 
PIL 4. Possible side effects 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Important potential risks 
PET Imaging interpretation errors 
Appropriate statements and warnings are 
included in the product information. 
SmPC 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
PIL 3. How Axumin will be used 
Additional risk 
minimisation 
measures 
Provision of reader training 
program (self training 
program and self 
assessment test images) in 
association with European 
Association of Nuclear 
Medicines (EANM) and 
national societies 
Off-label use 
Provide clear prescribing information. 
None. 
Appropriate statements and warnings are 
included in the product information. 
SmPC 4.2. Posology and Method of 
Administration 
SmPC 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
PIL 3. How Axumin will be used 
Risk due to contact with radiation 
(carcinogenic and hereditary risk) 
Ensure awareness. 
None. 
Appropriate statements and warnings are 
included in the product information. 
SmPC 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
SmPC 4.6. Fertility, Pregnancy and 
Lactation 
PIL 1. What Axumin is and what it is used 
for 
PIL 3. How you will be given Axumin 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 81/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation 
measures 
Important missing information 
Patients with impaired renal 
function 
Ensure awareness. 
None 
Appropriate statements and warnings are 
included in the product information. 
SmPC 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
PIL 2. What you need to know before you 
use Axumin 
Patients with impaired liver 
function 
Ensure awareness. 
None 
Appropriate statements and warnings are 
included in the product information. 
SmPC 4.4 Special warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
PIL 2. What you need to know before you 
use Axumin 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  New Active Substance 
The applicant compared the structure of fluciclovine with active substances contained in authorised medicinal 
products in the European Union and declared that it is not a salt, ester, ether, isomer, mixture of isomers, 
complex or derivative of any of them.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 82/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.10.  Product information 
2.10.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.10.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Axumin (fluciclovine (18F)) is included in the 
additional monitoring list as it contains a new active substance which, on 1 January 2011, was not contained 
in any medicinal product authorised in the EU.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
3.1.  Therapeutic Context 
3.1.1.  Disease or condition 
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in elderly males (> 70 years of age) in Europe. It is a major 
health concern, especially in developed countries with their greater proportion of elderly men in the general 
population.  Primary curative procedures such as radical prostatectomy and radiotherapy are well-established 
therapeutic options in the management of localised prostate cancer.  Despite technical improvements, there 
is still a significant risk of cancer recurrence after therapy.  Between 27% and 53% of all patients undergoing 
radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy develop PSA-recurrence.  A rising PSA level universally precedes 
metastatic progression. Measurement of PSA is a cornerstone in follow-up after local treatment.  However, 
local recurrence after curative treatment is possible without a concomitant rise in PSA level and has only 
been proven in patients with unfavourable pathology, namely, undifferentiated tumours. Once a PSA relapse 
has been diagnosed, it is important to determine whether the recurrence has developed at local or distant 
sites.  Determining the location of the recurrence is critical, as this defines optimal choice of therapy.  
3.1.2.  Available therapies and unmet medical need 
The diagnostic accuracy of standard imaging tests (ultrasound, CT and MRI) for the identification of sites of 
prostate cancer recurrence is low.  Almost 90% of the standard battery of imaging tests, may be negative. 
Nuclear imaging techniques have been utilised for the detection of recurrent prostate cancer for a number of 
years. Bone metastases, one of the most frequent location of metastases from prostate cancer, are generally 
detected using technetium (99mTc) ddiphosphonates with not infrequent false-positive cases and by sodium 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 83/90 
  
  
fluoride (18F).  The most widely used PET radiopharmaceutical, the glucose analogue fludeoxyglucose (18F), is 
not generally used as an imaging agent in prostate cancer due to indolent growth of many prostate cancers 
and the high urinary excretion of fludeoxyglucose (18F) making reliable, good quality imaging difficult in this 
patient population. Alternative radiopharmaceuticals with different mechanisms of action and a comparable 
diagnostic performance to overcome these limitations are needed.  
Currently, PET imaging with choline radiopharmaceuticals have been used in the diagnostic work-up of 
prostate cancer recurrences. However, choline (11C) is neither registered in the EU nor has it been validated 
as a diagnostic agent for prostate recurrences.  Moreover, the 20 minute half-life of 11C limits the use of this 
agent to medical centres with on-site 11C production capability, which prevents this agent from being supplied 
via the established PET supply chain. Substitution of Fluorine-18 (18F) for 11C enables offsite production and 
commercial supply due to the longer (110 minute) half life of 18F. Fluorocholines (18F) are registered in some 
EU countries with specific indications for the detection of recurrences depending on the particular commercial 
product. 
Fluciclovine (18F) is a PET tracer that visualizes the increased amino acid transport associated with tumour 
cells in comparison to normal tissues because it is a substrate for amino acid transporters upregulated in 
prostate cancer cells. It also claims a lack of incorporation into protein which avoids potential safety 
implications of introducing synthetic amino acids into proteins. 
3.1.3.  Main clinical studies 
3.2.  Favourable effects 
Evidence for efficacy of fluciclovine(18F) PET is mainly based on the R01/BED001 Emory study as pivotal and 
the BED002 blinded reader results on patients from the Emory site as supportive. 
In the BED001 Emory population the PPV of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT, using biopsy as SOT, significantly 
exceeded 50% at Lesion, Region and Subject level, exceeding 90% at Region 2 (pelvic lymph nodes) 
(95.8%) and Region 4 (extra-prostatic) (93.1%), and was statistically significant in each case. A sensitivity 
analysis allocating the indeterminate lesions as either positive or negative had no statistically significant 
bearing on the results. Patient-based sensitivity of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT scans versus histopathology for 
detection of recurrent prostate cancer (combining both local, regional lymph nodes and distant disease) was 
98.6% (95%CI: 92.7-100%); this value met the anticipated sensitivity (90%) and the success criteria 
(higher than 80%).  Negative likelihood ratio was good (0.035).  Therefore, an excellent sensitivity and 
negative likelihood ratio makes fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT a good test to exclude suspected recurrences. 
In the Emory population of the blinded inter-reader comparison study BED002, with histopathology as 
standard of truths, patient-based sensitivity values to detect suspected prostate cancer recurrence versus the 
standard of truth were high (i.e. 91.8% (67/73) overall and higher than 88% for all three readers), just a 
little lower than sensitivity obtained using the onsite read findings (98.6%) detailed hereinabove.  Inter-
reader agreement amongst the three readers when reading the Emory images was 94.7%, 74.4% and 70.3% 
at Lesion level and Region level for Regions 1 and 4, with associated Kappa greater than or equal to 0.5. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 84/90 
  
  
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
In BED001 Emory patient-based specificity for detection of (local, regional lymph nodes and distant) 
recurrent prostate cancer versus the standard of truth were as low as 38.7% (95% CI: 21.8-57.8%).  The 
positive likelihood ratio was 1.61. The product seems to be of limited value for the confirmation of suspected 
recurrence of prostate cancer, with a relatively high number of false positive cases versus histopathology 
(19/99) reflecting the limitations of the test for confirmation of recurrences. The false positives reported were 
from findings in the prostate/prostate bed. Among the false positive cases, one had fibrous tissue, other case 
with inflammatory response to cryotherapy and the remaining cases had been previously treated with 
radiotherapy showing a ‘radiation artefact’ in the histopathology report. Therefore, the indication has included 
a statement on the limitation in the interpretation of a positive scan. The errors in interpretation of the scans 
have been included in the RMP as an important potential risk and a special warning has been included in 
section 4.4 along with a description of the high sensitivity and low specificity in section 5.1 of the SmPC. In 
addition, the applicant has been requested to implement additional risk minimization measures to ensure that 
in each Member State where Axumin is marketed, all Healthcare professionals who are expected to use 
Axumin have access to self-training educational material in order to reduce the risk of PET imaging 
interpretation errors. The key elements are described in Annex IID and in the RMP. 
In study BED-002 with central blinded reading of fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT images from BED-001 study at 
Emory University, specificity values were also disappointing, both overall (35.7%) and for each reader (17.2-
53.6%).  Inter-reader agreement amongst the three readers was 76.0% at the Subject level with Kappa 
0.36. As Reader 1 and Reader 2 had generally higher inter-reader agreement with each other than with 
Reader 3, the results may have been biased by a low number of readers and worsened by results from the 
third reader. 
Diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) to detect recurrences has not been investigated in patients with a 
suspected PSA-based recurrence after primary radical treatment and with a recent positive whole-body bone 
scintigraphy. Therefore, information has been included in section 4.4 and 5.1 to inform the prescriber that 
patients in the study with suspected resurrence of prostate cancer had a negative bone scintigraphy before 
undergoing fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT. 
The PSA value affected the diagnostic performance of fluciclovine (18F) PET to detect prostate cancer 
recurrences (see section 5.1, Pharmacodynamic effects). 
The CHMP has recommended that impact on diagnostic thinking and/or on patient management in the 
intended clinical context and intended population would be further evaluated in currently running studies 
(BED-003 and BED-004) and that the data should be submitted for assessment.  
The BED 001 Emory data were generated in a prospective study with conclusions based mainly on 
retrospective analyses. The retrospective nature of the analyses is a source of potential for selection bias, 
which can be considered as the main uncertainty in the results of the blinded readings. However, procedures 
according to GCP standards implemented for retrospective data collection from patient records are 
appropriate to ensure data quality. 
3.4.  Unfavourable effects 
The adverse reactions for fluciclovine (18F) administration include dysgeusia, injection site reactions (pain, 
redness at injection site) and parosmia.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 85/90 
  
  
Overall, these events are rare and mild, occurring in ≤0.2% of patients exposed to fluciclovine (18F). This is 
in line with the experience from other F-18 based radiopharmaceuticals for which no serious adverse 
reactions have been observed to date. 
There is the potential for misinterpretation of the PET images acquired following administration of Axumin. 
Such interpretation errors may result in inappropriate treatment. Therefore, this issue is assessed as an 
important potential risk in the RMP. 
Moreover, there is the potential for the product to be used for other diagnostic situations beyond the precise 
indication applied for which is also considered to be an important potential risk in the RMP. 
As the effective dose of fluciclovine (18F) is 8.2 mSv when the maximal recommended activity of 370 MBq is 
administered, adverse reactions due to radiation are expected to occur with a very low probability.  
3.5.  Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
The safety information in patients that have received repeated injections is limited (up to 5); however, no 
worsening of adverse reactions or new adverse reactions is expected. 
There were small changes in lab parameters and vital signs that have been observed. However, these are 
considered of no clinical relevance. 
Fluciclovine (18F) is expected to be used in special populations such as elderly and patients with renal or 
hepatic impairment.  The applicant has provided safety information of fluciclovine (18F) in the elderly 
population.  However, there are no specific safety data in patients with impaired renal function or impaired 
hepatic function that have been provided. This has been included as missing information in the RMP.  
3.6.  Effects Table 
Table 36: 
Fluciclovine (18F) for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of adult men 
with suspected prostate cancer recurrence  
Effect 
Short 
Description 
On 
site 
read 
Blinded 
read 
Control 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of 
evidence 
References 
Favourable Effects 
Sensitivity 
Lesion-based  79.7% 
64.1% 
Sensitivity 
Prostatic 
98.3% 
91.4% 
Sensitivity 
Sensitivity 
Extra-
prostatic 
Patient-
based 
100.0% 
88.5% 
98.6% 
91.8% 
Specificity 
Lesion-based  61.5% 
79.9% 
Specificity 
Prostatic 
30.8% 
48.7% 
Based on Emory R01 
BED001 and BED 002 
data 
see part on clinical 
efficacy 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 86/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 
Short 
Description 
On 
site 
read 
Blinded 
read 
Control 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of 
evidence 
References 
Specificity 
Specificity 
Extra-
prostatic 
Patient-
based 
0.0% 
0.0% 
38.7% 
35.7% 
PPV 
Lesion-based  60.6% 
70.5% 
PPV 
Prostatic 
67.9% 
72.6% 
PPV 
PPV 
Extra-
prostatic 
Patient-
based 
93.1% 
92.0% 
79.3% 
78.8% 
NPV 
Lesion-based  80.4% 
74.8% 
NPV 
Prostatic 
92.3% 
79.2% 
NPV 
NPV 
Extra-
prostatic 
Patient-
based 
0.0% 
0.0% 
92.3% 
62.5% 
Unfavourable Effects 
Injection site 
reaction 
Dysgeusia 
Parosmia 
% 
% 
% 
0.6% 
0.4% 
0.2% 
Abbreviations: PPV Positive predictive value, NPV negative predictive value     Notes: none 
3.7.  Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
3.7.1.  Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The applicant has presented data showing the efficacy of fluciclovine (18F) to exclude recurrences in patients 
that had undergone primary curative treatment of localised primary prostate cancer and have suspected 
recurrence of prostate cancer and a recent negative whole-body bone scintigraphy, giving its excellent 
sensitivity and negative likelihood ratio. For the treating physician, exclusion of recurrences is an important 
aspect for the diagnostic work-up and patient management of biochemically suspected recurrent prostate 
cancer.  Since fluciclovine has very low specificity and positive likelihood ratio, it is not intended to be used to 
confirm recurrences. Clinical correlation, which may include histopathological evaluation of the suspected 
recurrence site, should be considered for positive scans to confirm recurrence of prostate cancer. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 87/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant has presented data showing the efficacy of fluciclovine (18F) to exclude recurrences in patients 
that had undergone primary curative treatment of localised primary prostate cancer and have suspected 
recurrence of prostate cancer and a recent negative whole-body bone scintigraphy. Fluciclovine (18F) is not 
intended to confirm recurrences, hence providing giving its excellent sensitivity and negative likelihood ratio 
and very low specificity and positive likelihood ratio. For the treating physician, exclusion of recurrences is an 
important aspect for the diagnostic work-up and patient management of biochemically suspected recurrent 
prostate cancer. 
It has been recommended to submit the results of study BED-003 and BED-004 to assess the impact of 
fluciclovine (18F) on the diagnostic thinking and on patient management ideally versus the impact of an 
established comparator.  
Some uncertainty remains whether presumably false positive readings of fluciclovine (18F) -PET images may 
either result in wrongly diagnosed recurrent prostate cancer or the fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT may be picked up 
by benign lesions such as BHP. Therefore, risk minimisation measures have been implemented to inform the 
readers on the interpretations of the scans. 
Axumin was well tolerated and no serious safety risks have been described with this radiopharmaceutical. For 
each patient, the radiation exposure must be justifiable by the likely benefit. The activity administered 
should, in every case, be as low as reasonably achievable to obtain the required diagnostic information.  
3.7.2.  Balance of benefits and risks 
Early diagnosis of recurrence of prostate cancer and exclusion of recurrences can have an impact on the 
further course of the disease and the treatment algorythm. The detection or exclusion of extra-prostatic 
spread/metastases by fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT can have a significant impact on the choice of treatment.  
Fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT is expected to have an advantage over labelled diphosphonates for bone scan, used 
in the EU for the routine diagnostic work-up of prostate cancer, of targeting any location in a single test. The 
phase II studies confirmed that fluciclovine (18F) PET-CT can identify areas of malignancy in the prostate and 
in extra-prostatic sites - lymph node metastases and bone metastases. Fluciclovine (18F) has good imaging 
characteristics, with rapid uptake into malignant tissues.  Moreover, the limited urinary excretion seems to be 
a further important advantage in comparison to fluorocholine (18F). 
Fluciclovine (18F) has good imaging characteristics, with rapid uptake into malignant tissues.  Moreover, the 
limited urinary excretion seems to be a further important advantage in comparison to fluorocholine (18F).  
Nevertheless, comparative data versus fluorocholine (18F) has not been provided. 
As with every diagnostic method, PET imaging has clear limitations where fluciclovine (18F) is not able to 
exclude with absolute certainty the presence of small volume recurrent micro-metastatic disease. The limited 
data available are, however, sufficient to show that fluciclovine (18F) is a useful aid to the management of 
patients with biochemically suspected recurrent prostate cancer. Concerning the impact of fluciclovine (18F) 
on patient management, the company has provided the full protocol of two ongoing company-sponsored 
studies, BED-003 and BED-004, in the intended clinical context and intended population and study results a 
be provided as soon as they are available. 
3.8.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Axumin is positive. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 88/90 
  
  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of Axumin is favourable in the following indication: 
“This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Axumin is indicated for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging to detect recurrence of prostate cancer 
in adult men with a suspected recurrence based on elevated blood prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels after 
primary curative treatment. 
For the limitations in the interpretation of a positive scan, see section 4.4 and 5.1.” 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 89/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Axumin in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree about 
the content and format of the educational programme with the National Competent Authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Axumin is marketed, all Healthcare professionals who 
are expected to use Axumin have access to self-training educational material in order to reduce the risk of 
PET imaging interpretation errors. 
The Healthcare professionals self-training material shall contain the following key elements:  
o  Physiological distribution of fluciclovine 
o 
Image interpretation guidelines 
o  Examples of incidental findings on PET-CT with fluciclovine 
o  Examples of positive and negative findings on PET-CT with fluciclovine 
o  Self-assessment test case images obtained with fluciclovine and expert summary for self-marking 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to be 
implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of the available data, the CHMP considers that fluciclovine is considered to be a 
new active substance as it is not a constituent of a medicinal product previously authorised within the 
European Union. 
Assessment report  
EMA/237809/2017 
Page 90/90 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
