22 October 2009 
EMA/823343/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Axura 
(memantine) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000378/P45 029.1 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
On May 2009, the MAH submitted 13 completed paediatric studies for Axura, in accordance with Article 
45 of the Regulation (EC)No 1901/2006, as amended on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
The MAH stated that the submitted paediatric studies do not influence the benefit risk for Axura and that 
there is no consequential regulatory action. 
This investigation involves three areas: Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity, motorfunction abnormalities and 
autistic spectrum disorder. These indications are not approved in adults or elderly patients. Efficacy and 
safety results coming from the submitted studies conducted in the paediatric population are inconclusive. 
The benefit/risk of the product does not require to be updated in this respect. 
Some information about pharmacokinetic characterisation in children and adolescent subjects seem to be 
generated  by  different  pharmacokinetic  studies  (or  analyses).  These  data  were  not  submitted  within  this 
variation. The MAH was asked to provide the data and to further discuss them. Also, the MAH was asked 
to  comment  on  the  suitability  of  the  marketed  formulations  for  children  as  well  as  the  eventual 
development of an oral formulation especially suitable for this population 
ASSESSMENT OF THE MAH RESPONSES 
1.    The MAH should comment on the suitability of the marketed formulations for children as well 
as the eventual development of an oral formulation especially suitable for this population. 
Company’s responses  
The reflection paper EMEA/CHMP/PEG/194810/2005: “formulation of choice for the paediatric 
population“, page 22 describes: solutions/drops for the age class of “newborn infants” up to “adolescents” 
in group 4 to 5 as „good/preferred acceptability“ and „dosage form of choice“. 
Hence, considering the existing Memantine oral drops/solution we already have a presentation for the 
complete paediatric population. 
Assessor’s comment 
The question has been satisfactorily answered. Point solved 
2.    Some information about pharmacokinetic characterisation in children and adolescent subjects 
seem to have be generated in different PK studies (or analyses). These data have not been submitted 
in this procedure. The MAH is therefore asked to provide the data and to further discuss them.   
Company’s responses  
Recent sponsor-initiated studies 
a) MEM-MD 24 
There is one recent clinical study to assess the short-term effects and the pharmacokinetics of memantine 
in children (MEM-MD 24, published by Findling et al.). The trial was completed in 2005 by Forest Labo-
ratories, Jersey City, NJ, USA. Spare plasma samples were withdrawn in this study and analysed by 
population pharmacokinetic methods. To enrich the spare PK data of this study, data from the two phase I 
studies MEM-PK-07 and MEM-PK-16 were included in the model development. 
MEM-PK-07 was a study of the pharmacokinetic interaction of Memantine and Aricept® in Healthy 
Young Subjects. MEM-PK-16 was an open-label, randomized, two-way crossover, and multiple dose 
Axura 
EMEA/H/C/000378/P45 029.1 
2/4                                                                                                                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bioequivalence study comparing once daily and twice daily dosing regimens of Memantine in healthy 
subjects. 
Study design: In a single-centre, open-label, uncontrolled dose-finding study, children aged between 6 and 
12 years of age and diagnosed with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD, combined type) in 
accordance with DSM-IV-TR criteria were treated with Memantine on an outpatient basis for a total of 
8 weeks . Children enrolled did not receive other concomitant psychoptropic medication. 
Study MEM-MD-24 was conducted in two cohorts of patients. Patients were titrated over 4 weeks to 10 
mg of Memantine in Cohort 1 and 20 mg of Memantine in Cohort 2, administered once daily. Following 
the titration period, patients had a 4-week maintenance period using the highest tolerated daily dose. 
Patients in Study MEM-MD-24 contributed a total of 37 plasma samples obtained from 11 patients at 
random times post dose. In this study, 3 patients from Cohort 1 and 1 patient from Cohort 2 contributed 
one sample each at early termination. Seven patients from Cohort 2 contributed 4 to 5 PK samples each at 
Weeks 1 (Visit 3), 2 (Visit 4), 3 (Visit 5), 4 (Visit 6), and 5 (Visit 7) or early termination at random times 
post dose. In Study MEM-PK-07, 23 healthy adult subjects contributed 343 plasma samples following 
administration of a single dose of 10 mg Memantine alone. In Study MEM-PK-16, 25 healthy adult 
subjects contributed 375 steady-state plasma samples following administration of 20 mg Memantine once 
daily, the same dosing frequency as in Study MEM-MD-24. 
Pharmacostatistics:  A  nonlinear  mixed-effects  model  was  fit  to  the  data  using  NONMEM®  software 
(NONMEM  Version  V,  Level  1.1;  University  of  California  at  San  Francisco/GloboMax®).  Data  were 
analyzed  with  the  one  compartment  model  with  first-order  absorption  and  elimination  and  a  lag  time  in 
absorption  (ALAG).  Population  PK  analysis  was  performed  using  the  first-order  conditional  estimation 
method with interaction. Intersubject variability was described using the exponential error model. Residual 
variability  was  described  using  the  proportional  error  model.  Covariates  tested  during  the  analysis 
included weight (WT), age, sex, and creatinine clearance (CrCL). 
Model selection criteria: The selection of an appropriate population PK model was based on a significant 
reduction in the objective function value based on the likelihood ratio test (for nested models; p<0.001), 
the goodness-of-fit plots, and a 95% confidence interval (CI) of the estimated parameters. 
Summary and Conclusions: Memantine Cmax levels were higher in paediatric patients with ADHD than 
in healthy adult subjects following administration of equal doses of Memantine. The differences in drug 
exposure could be attributed to a large extent to differences in WT, with CL/F and V/F significantly (p < 
0.001) smaller in paediatric patients with ADHD compared with healthy adult subjects. In the final model 
of CL/F and V/F, which included WT as a covariate, intersubject variability in CL/F and V/F was reduced 
by 0.9% and 4.0%, respectively, relative to the basic PK model (no covariates). The greatest reduction was 
observed in residual variability for paediatric patients with ADHD; residual variability was 95.8% in the 
basic PK model and only 37.0% in the final PK model. 
Based on the final PK model, values of CL/F and V/F determined for healthy adult subjects were similar 
to those obtained in Study MEM-PK-07 using traditional, non-compartmental, PK analyses. In addition, 
following  administration  of  20  mg  Memantine  once  daily  in healthy  adult  subjects,  the  model-predicted 
Cmax and AUC0-24 values were similar to those obtained in Study MEM-PK-16 by non-compartmental 
analysis following the same Memantine dose and dosing frequency. 
Given the small number of data from paediatric patients, more studies will need to be performed to better 
define the PK of Memantine in this patient population. When larger data sets become available, additional 
covariates,  besides  weight,  may  be  found  to  explain  differences  in  Memantine  exposure  in children  and 
adults. It is also possible that the relationship of CL/F and/or V/F to weight may be different in adults and 
children. 
Graphical relationships between the primary efficacy parameter (change from baseline in ADHD-IV-RS 
total  score)  and  drug  exposure  (model-predicted  Cmax  and  AUC0-24)  suggest  that  efficacy  can  be 
observed  only  after  a  threshold  concentration  is  achieved  (around  120-130  ng/mL);  thereafter,  efficacy 
seems to improve with increasing drug exposure. The data indicate that Memantine Cmax levels around 
Axura 
EMEA/H/C/000378/P45 029.1 
3/4                                                                                                                             
 
 
 
 
 
150  to  180  ng/mL  may  be  needed  for  efficacy  in  ADHD.  More  data  is  needed  to  better  describe  the 
relationship between the efficacy of Memantine in paediatric patients with ADHD and drug exposure.  
b) MEM-PK-21 
Currently the pharmacokinetics in children is investigated in the study MEM-PK-21. This is a single dose, 
open-label study evaluating the pharmacokinetics of an oral Memantine HCl modified-release formulation 
in paediatric patients with autistic spectrum disorders. 
Status of the Study: Until now 10 children were included in the study. The PK study offers no benefit for 
the children. Therefore, the recruiting of children was very low and is still ongoing. 
Up to now, no report is available. 
Assessor’s comment 
The Company reports two trials in children: Study MEM-PK-21 in paediatric patients with autistic 
spectrum disorders and MEM-MD-24 in ADHD children. MEM-PK-21 is ongoing and results are not 
available yet. MEM-MD-24 has provided some PK data coming from 37 samples from 11 patients 
between 6 an 12 years of age. 
From these data, exposure to Memantine in children appears to be higher than that achieved in young 
adults to equivalent doses. Additional data in paediatric population are expected to be available in next 
future when study MEM-PK-21 is concluded.  
Thus, it seems reasonable to wait in order to have a better PK characterisation of Memantine in this 
population. Whether the SmPC should be updated accordingly will require further evaluation.  
In summary at this stage it seems premature to include any particular information regarding the PK 
profile of Memantine in children. Additional data are expected to be available in next future.    
Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and Recommendation 
investigation 
The  MAH  has  submitted  information  about  the  available  results  from  the  clinical  investigation  in 
three  areas:  Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity, 
involves 
paediatric  population.  This 
motorfunction abnormalities and autistic spectrum disorder. These indications are not approved in adults 
or  elderly  patients.  Efficacy  and  safety  results  coming  from  the  submitted  studies  conducted  in  the 
paediatric population are inconclusive. The benefit/risk of the product does not require to be updated  in 
this respect. No sound PK data in this population are available at this stage. Therefore no changes in the PI 
are deemed necessary for the time being. 
Axura 
EMEA/H/C/000378/P45 029.1 
4/4                                                                                                                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
