This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Axura. For information 
on changes after this date please refer to module 8. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH have submitted a Marketing Authorisation Application for the medicinal 
product  memantine,  tablets and oral solution  for the treatment of patients with  moderately severe  to 
severe Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia. 
Dementia is a chronic progressive organic mental disorder in which there is a disturbance of multiple 
higher  cortical  functions.  From  epidemiological  studies,  it  is  estimated  that  there  are  approximately 
three  million  individuals  with  dementia  in  the  European  Union.  Dementia  is  characterised  by 
dysmnesia,  intellectual  deterioration,  changes  in  personality  and  behavioural  abnormalities.  It  is  not 
only a problem for the patient but also responsible for making the patient dependent on his family or 
the community. 
There are two main forms of dementia, Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and dementia with vascular origin 
(VaD). Dementia of the Alzheimer type is the most common cause and accounts for 50-60% of severe 
dementia  cases  and  Vascular  Dementia  (VaD)  for  about  10  to  20%,  20%  of  patients  have  both 
disorders. The incidence of Alzheimer's disease is approximately 10% in the population over 65 years 
of age and increases progressively with age to reach about 30% by the end of a century of life. The 
cause  of  the  disease  remains  unknown  although  some  biological  and  anatomical  factors  have  been 
identified and are the basis for current and proposed therapies. 
Current drug therapies for Alzheimer's disease include acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as tacrine, 
donepezil, rivastigmine and galanthamine. All of these increase cholinergic synaptic transmission by 
inhibiting  acetylcholinesterase  at  the  synaptic  cleft.  Tacrine  was  the  first  of  the  acetylcholinesterase 
(AchE)  inhibitors  to  be  approved.  Donepezil  was  authorised  later  in  14  EU  Member  States.  Both 
medicinal products have the same indication: Symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate dementia of 
the  Alzheimer  type.  Rivastigmine  has  been  authorised  through  the  centralised  procedure  and 
galantamine  through  the  Mutual  recognition  procedure  in  14  Member  States.  They  both  have  been 
approved for the following indication: Symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe dementia 
of the Alzheimer type. 
the  Treatment  of  Alzheimer’s  disease 
The  Note  for  Guidance  on  Medicinal-Products 
(CPMP/EWP/553/95)  is  mainly  applicable  to  mild  to  moderate  Alzheimer’s  disease  but  may  be 
adapted for use in preparing guidance for drug trials in other specific forms of dementia. 
in 
Memantine  is  a  non-competitive  NMDA  glutamate  receptor  antagonist.  The  excessive  release  of 
glutamate is claimed to be associated with neurodegeneration in acute and chronic disorders such as 
hypoxia, ischaemia, stroke and perhaps Alzheimer’s disease.  
Memantine  has  been  on  the  market  in  Germany  for  about  20  years.  As  a  consequence  some  of  the 
available data come from old studies performed during the initial development. Substantial new data 
have been produced specifically for this centralised procedure.  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
There are two pharmaceutical forms, film-coated tablets 10 mg and oral drops solution 1%w/w:  
1/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Film-Coated Tablets 
The  tablets  are  white  to  off-white  coloured,  biconvex,  oblong  tablets.  The  excipients  chosen  for  the 
core  tablet  formulation  were  lactose  monohydrate,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  colloidal  anhydrous 
silica, talc and magnesium stearate, and for the film-coating formulation were methacrylic acid – ethyl 
acrylate copolymer (1:1), sodium lauryl sulphate, polysorbate 80, triacetin, simethicone emulsion and 
talc.  
Tablets are packaged in clear polypropylene (PP) / aluminium foil blisters (350µm/15µm). The blister 
contains 10 or 20 tablets and the package sizes are 30, 50 or 100 tablets.  
Oral Drops Solution 
The  drops  consist  of  an  aqueous  solution  of  the  active  substance  in  a  sweetened  base,  preserved 
against  microbial  spoilage  with  potassium  sorbate.  The  drops  are  presented  as  a  clear,  colourless 
solution  in  amber  glass  bottles  containing  20,  50  and  100  ml  of  solution.  The  bottle  contain  a 
polyethylene dropper and polyethylene screw cap.  
Active substance 
Memantine  hydrochloride  is  3,5-dimethyl-1-adamantamine  hydrochloride.  It  is  an  ‘established’  or 
known active substance, although it is not described in the PhEur. It is a white crystalline odourless 
powder, soluble in water. structure has been confirmed by the synthetic route, elemental analysis, IR 
absorption  spectrum,  1H-NMR  and  13C-NMR  spectra.  The  molecule  has  2  chiral  centres  but  since 
there  is  a  plane  of  symmetry  between  them  the  molecule  is  not  chiral.  Samples  of  memantine 
hydrochloride  have  been  crystallised  in  relevant  solvents  and  tested  by  X-ray  powder  diffraction. 
According to these studies, no polymorphism is shown.  
Information about the manufacturing process has been presented by the manufacturer in an EDMF.  It 
is synthesised via 3 steps.  Major impurities are, intermediate products and those degradation products 
which occur during production and purification.  
Active Substance Specification 
The  following  tests  are  carried  out:  characteristics,  identification,  assay  as  well  as  several  tests  for 
purity  such  as  solubility,  loss-on-drying,  heavy  metals,  related  impurities,  residual  solvents,  particle 
size  etc.  Validation  studies  are  based  on  the  relevant  ICH  guideline  and  batch  analytical  data  on  12 
batches confirm conformity to the specifications.  
Stability 
Stability data on five batches of drug substance have been provided. The stability studies have  been 
performed under ‘accelerated’ conditions at 40ºC /80% RH for 26 weeks and ‘room temperature’ (20-
25ºC)  conditions  for  up  to  208  weeks.  The  active  substance  is  an  old  established  substance  and 
stability  studies  were  initiated  before  the  finalisation  of  the  CPMP/ICH  guidelines.  While  storage 
conditions  and  sampling  time  are  not  according  to  the  ICH  stability  guideline,  the  accelerated 
conditions are slightly harsher than those foreseen by ICH and are considered to be acceptable.  
Testing under stress conditions indicates that the substance is highly stable and only degrades under 
severe oxidative conditions and elevated temperature. From the studies it is concluded that Memantine 
HCl  does  not  require  special  storage  conditions.  The  proposed  packaging  material  for  the  bulk 
substance is justified at room temperature. 
Finished products 
1. Film-coated tablets 
Other ingredients 
The  excipients  chosen  for  the  core  tablet  formulation  were  lactose  monohydrate,  microcrystalline 
cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, talc and magnesium stearate, and for the film-coatin formulation 
were  methacrylic  acid  –  ethyl  acrylate  copolymer,  sodium  lauryl  sulphate,  polysorbate,  triacetin, 
simethicone emulsion and talc.  
2/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  the  excipients  are  controlled  by  monographs  in  the  PhEur,  except  simethicone  emulsion  that  is 
controlled by a USP monograph. The magnesium stearate is from plant origin and therefore there is no 
significant risk of TSE/BSE transmission. 
Product development and finished product 
Memantine tablets had been on the German market for more than 15 years at the time of application. 
During  this  period,  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  focused  on  various  modifications  of  the 
initial formulation in order to improve its quality:  
• 
• 
Introduction of a first organic then aqueous film-coat to mask the unpleasant taste;  
Change of tablet shape from round to oblong with a break-line to get an easily divisible tablet 
that facilitates the dosage (5 and 10 mg).  
A standard method of manufacture is employed for the manufacture of the tablet cores, compression 
into  tablets  and  film-coating.    The  process  involves  two  stages:  production  of  uncoated  tablets  and 
film-coating of uncoated tablet cores.  This process was validated on 5 industrial batches. 
The  finished  product  is  tested  for  appearance,  identification,  assay,  dissolution,  impurities  and 
microbiological  purity  etc..  Batch  analysis  data  for  three  production  scale  batches  show  compliance 
with the set specifications. 
Stability of the Product 
Stability tests have been carried out on six batches of finished product. All batches were packaged in 
the packaging proposed for marketing. Conditions studied were 25ºC/ 60%RH, 30ºC/ 60%RH, 40ºC / 
75% RH for up to 12 months.Parameters tested include the usual tests for assay, degradation products 
and dissolution etc. No evidence of significant degradation or physical instability was found. In total, 
the stability results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
2. Oral drops solution 
Other ingredients 
Sorbitol  is  present  as  a  flavouring  agent,  and  also  potassium  sorbate  as  preservative,  dissolved  in 
Purified Water. All these ingredients comply with PhEur requirements. 
Product development and finished product 
The  formulation  is  standard,  and  the  manufacturing  process  is  simple.  A  bioequivalence  study  has 
been performed to demonstrate that the tablets and oral solution are bioequivalent at equivalent doses 
(10 mg orally). The parameters measured in each case showed no differences which could be regarded 
as  statistically  significant  or  clinically  relevant.  A  summary  is  given  in  the  clinical  section  of  this 
report. 
The  release  specification  includes  tests  for  identity,  assay  of  active  substance,  preservative  content, 
etc., and sufficient batch data exist to demonstrate uniformity of product from batch to batch.  
Stability of the Product 
The stability of the product has been shown on three batches stored at 25ºC/ 60%RH, 30ºC/ 70 %RH, 
and  40ºC  /  75%  RH  for  up  to  5  years.  Parameters  tested  include  the  usual  tests  for  assay,  assay  of 
preservative,  degradation  products  etc.  All  results  enclosed  are  within  specifications  in  all  batches 
studied. In total, the results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
In-use stability of the finished product: 
The proposed shelf-life after opening is justified on the basis of physicochemical and microbiological 
grounds, and this is also mentioned in the SPC and on the label. 
3/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  summary,  the  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  products  have  been 
validated,  and  indicate  satisfactory  product  uniformity  at  release.  Quality  characteristics  relevant  to 
clinical use have also been investigated during the shelf-life studies, and are satisfactory for products 
of this type. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Glutamate  is  the  principal  fast  neurotransmitter  in  the  brain,  where  up  to  40%  of  all  synapses  are 
glutamatergic. Like most neurotransmitters, it is released by action-potential-induced exocytosis into 
the  synaptic  cleft,  from  where  it  activates  the  post-  synaptic  receptor.  Two  types  of  receptors, 
ionotropic  and  metabotropic,  bind  and  respond  to  glutamate.  There  are  three  major  subtypes  of 
ionotropic  receptors:  AMPA,  Kainate  and  N-methyl-D-aspartate  (NMDA)  receptors.  The  NMDA 
receptor  is  a  voltage-sensitive,  glutamate-gated  ion  channel,  which  permits  passage  of  Ca2+  into  the 
neuron after the neuron has been depolarised by AMPA/kainate receptors.  
Memantine  is  a  non-competitive  NMDA  receptor  antagonist,  which  acts  selectively  at  NMDA 
receptors  in  brain  and  retina,  but  has  no  activity  at  AMPA/Kainate  receptors.  Published  literature 
indicates  that  neurodegenerative  diseases  such  as  dementia  of  the  Alzheimer  type  (AD)  have  a 
common pathogenic mechanism, namely impaired glutamate homeostasis. 
Several studies have been carried out in vitro and ex vivo and in vivo in rat, mouse, gerbil, guinea pig, 
cat and dog to study the preclinical pharmacology of memantine. The pharmacodynamic models and 
the biostatistical analysis comply with internationally accepted procedures in pharmacology and most 
of the relevant studies have been published in peer-reviewed journals and monographs. 
In vitro studies 
• 
Several  studies  have  been  conducted  to  assess  the  binding  of  memantine  to  the  NMDA  receptor.  In 
human  embryonic  kidney  cells  transiently  transfected  with  NMDA  receptor  subunit  combinations, 
memantine  concentration-dependently  blocked  L-glutamate-mediated  currents.  Relatively  high 
concentrations  of  memantine  were  required  to  show  neuroprotective  activity  in  an in  vitro  model  of 
acute ischaemia, although memantine was shown to be superior to dizocilpine. 
In vivo studies  
• 
Memantine  reduces  neuronal  damage  induced  in  various  global  and  focal  ischaemia  models  in 
laboratory animals. However, in most cases memantine was administered before the occlusion, and the 
effective doses were higher (10-20 mg/kg) than considered therapeutically relevant in man. 
In  rats,  bilateral  carotid  artery  occlusion  for  60  minutes  resulted  in  learning  deficits  in  the  Morris 
maze. Prior treatment with memantine 30 mg/kg i.p., 10 min before surgery completely prevented this 
functional  deficit.  Similarly,  memantine  20  mg/kg  reduced  the  four  vessel  occlusion  ischaemia-
induced  deficits  in  the  Morris  maze  and  reduced  neuronal  damage  in  the  hippocampus.  Memantine 
was  shown to be neuroprotective against acute damage induced by the endogenous  NMDA receptor 
agonist quinolinic acid injected to the hippocampus. 
Several studies were also conducted on the neurotoxic effects of glutamate in structures known to be 
affected  in  learning.  Memantine  administered  i.p.  before  NMDA  microinjection  produced  a  clearcut 
protection from the neurotoxic effects of direct injections of NMDA. Inflammation might also play a 
significant role in the pathogenesis of AD and vascular dementia. Continuous infusion of memantine 
by minipump at therapeutically relevant dose prevented clearly neuronal loss induced by inflammation 
leaving inflammatory reaction unaffected.  
4/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  moderately  aged  rats,  memantine  prolonged  the  duration  of  long-term  potentiation  (LTP)  in  vivo 
and also showed a trend to improve memory retention in the Morris maze. Similar positive effect of 
memantine were seen in rats showing learning deficits as a result of lesions in entorhinal cortex, which 
is  a  brain  region  affected  at  early  stages  of  AD.  NMDA-induced  amnesia  was  also  antagonised  by 
memantine. 
As secondary pharmacological effects, memantine showed in vitro anticonvulsive properties in guinea 
pig brain slices qualitatively similar to those of dizocilpine, but 10-100 fold less potent. At high doses 
in vivo in kindled rats, it is proconvulsive. Memantine is analgesic in rats under certain circumstances, 
consistent with the presence of NMDA receptors on superficial spinal dorsal horn neurons, normally 
modulated by tonically active glutamatergic supraspinal descending systems. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
• 
Drug-induced  alterations  in  bile  flow  and  urinary  pH  may  affect  memantine  kinetics  which  is 
adequately addressed in the SPC. No significant drug-drug interaction between memantine and a range 
of  selected  substrates  routinely  used  to  phenotype  drug-metabolizing  enzyme  activities  in  man  were 
observed. 
Although the preclinical interaction studies with memantine are limited, interactions studies have been 
conducted in  humans  during the clinical trial program  including  most of the relevant  drugs used for 
this therapeutic indication such as amantadine, cimetidine, triamterene, hydrochlorotiazide, ketamine, 
L-dopa, anticholinergics and dopaminergics, barbiturates, neuroleptics, antispastics and acetylcholine 
esterase inhibitors (AchEI). 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
• 
Safety pharmacology studies were performed on mice, rats guinea-pigs and dogs. The major clinical 
sign was ataxia, preceded by increased locomotor activity. Memantine inhibited ocular-electroshock-
induced seizures but potentiated pentetrazol-induced (GABA-mediated) seizures. There were limited 
mixed effects on intestinal contractility, and no notable effects on the cardiovascular system. Increased 
hexobarbital-sleep time is presumed to indicate inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2B1. The 
results of these screening tests show that memantine has relatively minor peripheral pharmacological 
effects; the primary target organ appears to be central nervous system. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Different non-clinical ADME studies have been conducted in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, mini-pigs, and 
monkeys to characterise the pharmacokinetic profile of memantine in the animal species chosen. The 
routes of administration selected were oral and intraperitoneal. 
Memantine  is  completely  absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  and  the  plasma  concentrations  are 
proportional to dose. The mean plasma protein binding of memantine is 41% in the rat compared to 
45% in humans.  
Distribution  studies  with  memantine  have  been  carried  out  in  rats  and  baboons.  After  single  and 
repeated  administration,  memantine  is  distributed  through  all  tissues,  with  increased  affinity  to  the 
kidneys and lungs. A 12-month chronic treatment of rats with memantine in the diet resulted in highest 
levels in lung, spleen, kidney and lachrymal gland, slightly lower in the brain and spinal cord, liver, 
lymph nodes, pancreas and salivary glands. 
Following  infusion  of  memantine  whole  brain  concentrations  were  44-fold  higher  than  free 
concentrations  in  the  serum.  The  free  brain  ECF  concentration  of  memantine  (0.83  ±  0.05  µM) 
corrected for in vivo recovery (39 %) was comparable to free serum and CSF concentrations. 
The  plasma  pharmacokinetics  of  memantine  after  oral  administration  in  the  rat  shows  two  peak 
concentrations, 0.5-1 and again 2-4 hours after dosing, which could be explained by biliary uptake and 
enterohepatic circulation. In mice, however, biliary excretion of memantine is minimal (<4%).  
There is no significant change in the distribution of memantine after long-term administration, and no 
major increase or decrease in plasma or organ concentrations. 
5/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Memantine  metabolites  are  mainly  hydroxylated,  with  an  intact  or  oxidised  amino  function.  In 
addition,  conjugated  compounds  were  found  as  phase  II  metabolites  but  they  seem  to  be  of  minor 
importance.  MRZ  2/373  (1-amino-3-hydroxymethyl-5-methyl-adamantane)  appears  to  be  the  major 
urinary  metabolite  detected  in  the  rat  whereas  in  the  baboon  ring  hydroxylated  metabolites  (MRZ 
2/371,  2/374)  are  predominant.  The  metabolites  MRZ  2/371,  2/373,  2/374  and  2/375  identified  in 
human  urine  had  no  NMDA  antagonistic  activity,  or  this  activity  was  much  lower  than  that  of 
memantine; pharmacological activity is therefore attributable to memantine alone. 
Memantine and its metabolites are excreted primarily via the kidney. After a single oral dose of 14C-
memantine, minimum 80-90% of the excreted radioactivity was excreted in the urine in animals and 
humans. Memantine is partly excreted by tubular secretion. Impaired kidney function may thus have a 
similar  impact  on  memantine  elimination  in  man.  It  is  stated  in  the  SPC  that  memantine  must  be 
adjusted  on  an  individual  basis,  including  monitoring  of  kidney  function  in  patients  with  renal 
insufficiency.  It  is  not  recommended  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment.  Elimination  half-life 
was  approximately  4  hours  in  all  species  except  man  where  terminal  elimination  half-life  was 
approximately 100 hours.  
Toxicology 
A  complete  non-GLP  preclinical  toxicology  program  was  conducted  on  memantine  in  the  1970s, 
consisting of single-dose and, repeated-dose studies in rodents and dogs and baboons by s.c., i.p., i.v. 
and  oral  administration  of  memantine.  All  of  the  preclinical  toxicity  studies,  which  are  required  to 
fulfil  current  requirements,  were  repeated  as  GLP  studies  in  the  1980s  and  1990s  and  there  is  good 
agreement between the older non-GLP and the more recent GLP study data.  
Single dose toxicity 
The acute toxicity of memantine was evaluated in rats and mice. Toxic symptoms were similar by all 
administration routes: ataxia, tremor, prone position and bradypnea. No persistent clinical signs were 
seen in survivors 14 days after acute high dose memantine treatment. In an acute oral toxicity study in 
dogs, only central  nervous system  symptoms such  as  ataxia, tremor,  prone  position and convulsions 
were seen. Mild ataxia was reported at 5 mg/kg, tremors and minor seizures at 25 mg/kg. At 50 mg/kg, 
one  male  died  on  the  second  day  after  treatment;  both  male  and  female  had  coarse  tremor  and 
intermittent  clonic  seizures.  At  75 mg/kg,  both  died  within  6  hours,  after  coarse  tremor  and  strong 
clonic  seizures.  Surviving  animals  recovered  within  3  days,  and  no  persistent  changes  were  seen  14 
days after treatment. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
The  four  major  preclinical  concerns  referred  to  toxic  effects  found  in  different  animal  species.  The 
most prominent clinical sign in all species tested was ataxia, followed by reduced body weight, with 
food consumption unchanged or increased. At high doses in rat and dog, prolonged prothrombin times, 
decreased  thymus,  spleen  weights,  reduced  blood  platelets  and,  reduced  blood  protein  and 
lymphocytopenia  were  seen.  No  significant  effects  on  haematology  or  clinical  chemistry  were 
observed in the studies on monkeys. An increased prevalence of pulmonary foamy macrophages was 
noted  at  high  doses  of  memantine  in  rodents.  In  the  12-month  rat  study,  electron  microscopic 
examination of the eye tissues showed findings of abnormal lysosomal storage (granules) in ganglion 
cells  and  in  pigment  epithelium  cells  only.  Neuronal  vacuoles  (not  related  to  Olney  lesions)  in  the 
central  nervous  system  were  seen,  at  lethal  dose  levels  in  the  13-week  dietary  mouse  study.  Most 
toxicological findings are suggested to be species-specific and/or to appear at doses well in excess of 
the therapeutic dose. 
Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity  was  tested  in  a  four  standard  assays  system:  gene  mutation  assays  in  bacterial  and  in 
mammalian cells; chromosomal mutation assays in mammalian cells in vitro and in-vivo. Memantine 
was  not  mutagenic  or  clastogenic  in  any  test  system.  For  chemical  reasons  NO-metabolites  are  not 
likely  to  form  nitrosamines  and  therefore,  from  this  perspective,  there  should  be  no  concern  for 
genotoxicity  or  carcinogenicity  and,  preliminary  data  indicate  that  these  putative  metabolites  are 
detectable only in trace amounts in human urine derived from-treated volunteers.  
6/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity 
Two  carcinogenicity  studies  have  been  conducted  in  rats  and  mice:  In  a  30-month  dietary 
carcinogenicity  study  in  rats,  survival  was  not  adversely  affected  by  treatment.  Decreased  body 
weight, dyspnea, foamy macrophages in the lung, and mineralization of renal medulla were observed. 
Type and incidence of neoplastic lesions did not differ between treatment and control groups.  
In a 24-month dietary carcinogenicity study in mice survival was not adversely affected by treatment. 
Reduced  body  weight,  increased  food  consumption  and  dyspnea  were  evident.  There  were  no 
treatment-related  histopathological  findings.  Type  and  incidence  of  neoplastic  lesions  did  not  differ 
between treatment and control groups. Memantine can thus be considered as non-carcinogenic. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Reproductive  performance  of  rats  was  examined  after  treatment  in  all  segments  of  the  reproductive 
cycle in a  series  of three studies  all  using the same  doses: 2, 6  and 18 mg/kg/day.  At 18 mg/kg  and 
occasionally also  at  6 mg/kg,  reduced  food  consumption  and  body  weight  gain  were  observed  in  all 
studies. Except for marginal foetal growth retardation at 18 mg/kg, no effects were seen on any aspect 
of reproduction. Embryo-/foetotoxicity of memantine was tested in the rabbit after oral administration. 
No specific adverse effect on reproduction was observed for memantine. 
Local tolerance 
Local  tolerance  to  memantine  after  intravenous,  intraarterial,  intramuscular  or  paravenous  injection 
was tested in dogs. Paravenous injection caused slight oedema, which was still visible after 48 hours. 
No other reactions were seen. Local tolerance is considered good. The sensitising potential was tested 
in guinea pig, after epicutaneous administration of memantine. Memantine displayed neither irritation 
nor sensitisation potential. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
Memantine  is  administered  to  humans  at  doses  of  usually  20  mg/day.  70%  of  the  ingested  drug  are 
excreted unmetabolized in the urine. The metabolites are water-soluble and not biologically active or 
toxic. From their chemical structures no persistence in the environment can be assumed for the parent 
compound  or  its  derivatives.  Therapeutic  used  of  memantine  is  estimated  to  lead  to  concentrations 
below one part per billion at the point  of entry into the aquatic environment. An environmental risk 
can be excluded. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
There  are  a  total  of  25-pharmacodynamic/pharmacokinetic  studies  with  memantine.  These  studies 
have  included  434  subjects,  377  of  them  received  memantine  and  105  received  placebo  (some 
volunteers/patients  received  both  in  cross-over  studies).  Of  these  clinical  pharmacology  studies,  2 
were  performed  in  patients  with  neurological  disease/dementia  syndrome,  2  in  healthy  elderly 
subjects,  one  in  elderly  subjects  with  renal  impairment  and  20  in  healthy  volunteers.  A  total  of  11 
single  dose  studies  have  been  performed,  with  memantine  administered  orally  or  intravenously  at 
doses up to 60 mg. The remaining 14 studies were multiple-dose studies, with doses of memantine up 
to 60 mg orally. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No specific pharmacodynamic endpoint to correlate with the therapeutic effect in healthy volunteers 
has been identified. A single dose of 30 mg does not impair physiological NMDA neurotransmission 
(information processing and memory functions) in healthy volunteers (MRZ-9405). Daily doses of 20 
mg memantine showed no effect on perception of experimental pain stimuli or primary and secondary 
hyperalgesia (MRZ-9502). No consistent effects of memantine on EEG were obtained in a study with 
memantine 30 mg iv (MRZ-8610).  
7/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  another  study  in  elderly  subjects,  a  decrease  of  vigilance  under  placebo  and  stabilisation  under 
memantine was observed (MRZ- 8909). Study MRZ-9402 with 49 elderly subjects showed no effect 
on pituitary function (TSH, LH, FSH, prolactin and vasopressin) with a dose of 20 mg of memantine 
during 27 days. 
Two studies were performed exploring the dose-effect of memantine on cardiovascular function in a 
total of 9 healthy volunteers. With single doses of memantine up to 60 mg i.v. (MRZ-Z040) small, non 
dose-dependent decreases in cardiac performance index and systolic blood pressure were observed. In 
another small study (MRZ-Z041) an increase in blood pressure had also been observed. In addition to 
the results of these pharmacology studies (MRZ-Z040/Z041), the large phase III trials provided data 
on  blood  pressure  that  do  not  show  any  significant  difference  between  placebo  and  memantine  on 
blood  pressure.  No  effects  on  cardiac  conduction  were  found  with  memantine  in  clinical 
pharmacology studies. The phase III study MRZ-9408 performed an analysis of ECG, which showed 
no prolongation of QT interval after 6 months treatment with memantine. 
As  memantine  is  secreted  in  small  amounts  via  lacrimal  gland,  a  study  (phase  II  open  study  MRZ-
9100) was performed to examine if memantine had any effects on the eye in patients with detectable 
levels  of  memantine  in  lacrimal  fluid.  A  total  of  10  elderly  patients  with  brain  dysfunction  were 
included taking 20 mg/day during a mean of 47.9 months. It was concluded that no evidence of eye 
alterations was found. These results were confirmed by opthalmological examination after 6 months of 
treatment with memantine 20 mg in a phase III study (MRZ-9202). However, as the preclinical ocular 
findings  raised  some  concerns,  the  applicant  will  provide  on  an  annual  basis  the  CPMP  with  safety 
analysis of two large placebo-controlled studies in glaucoma patients. 
Some  data  on  safety  were  collected  from  these  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  The  reported  adverse 
events were tiredness, headache, dizziness, somnolence, impaired concentration, dry mouth, agitation 
and nausea. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
Memantine is well absorbed, with high bioavailability approaching 100%. Time to maximum plasma 
concentration  (t  max)  following  single  oral  doses  of  10  to  40  mg  ranges  between  3  to  8  hours 
respectively.  Peak  plasma  concentration  (Cmax)  following  a  single  20  mg  oral  dose  of  memantine 
ranges between 22 and 46 ng/ml. AUC and Cmax appeared to increase in a dose proportional manner. 
Steady state levels are reached around day 11 with accumulation in plasma resulting in approximately 
3-4  times  Cmax  compared  with  that  following  a  single  dose.  In  phase  III  trials,  memantine  20  mg 
daily  results  in steady-state plasma  concentrations ranging from 70 to  150  ng/ml  with  marked inter-
individual variation. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution of memantine is approximately 9 l/kg suggesting extensive distribution of 
memantine  into  tissues.    Memantine  is  bound  to  plasma-proteins  at  approximately  45%  (HUK  610-
13).  Memantine  rapidly  crosses  the  blood-brain  barrier:  Following  a  20 mg  infusion  to  9  male 
subjects, memantine was detected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) within 30 minutes (MRZ-8609). Daily 
doses of 5-30 mg memantine to patients resulted in a mean CSF/serum ratio of 0.52. A post-mortem 
analysis of distribution of therapeutic doses of memantine (20 mg/day) in one female patient did not 
demonstrate  any  localised  tissue-distribution.  Concentrations  in  different  regions  of  the  brain  varied 
between 0.1 and 0.5 µg/g. 
8/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
The majority of the administered memantine dose is excreted unchanged in urine (75-90 %), with the 
remaining  memantine  converted  to  numerous  metabolites.  The  major  metabolites  of  memantine 
excreted  in  urine  are  the  memantine  N-gludantan  conjugate,  4-and  6-hydroxy  memantine  and  1-
nitroso-deaminated memantine. Both cis- and trans- isomers of hydroxy memantine were observed in 
the urine. The memantine metabolites are hydroxylated and N-oxidized derivatives of memantine. The 
human  metabolites  tested  thus  far  in  cell  patch  clamp  studies,  did  not  have  NMDA  antagonistic 
activity, or this activity was much lower than that of memantine, as their IC50 values were greater than 
90 times the IC50 value of memantine. 
Elimination 
Memantine  is  mainly  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine  (60-80%)  and  its  terminal  half-life  is  60  to 
100h. In volunteers with normal kidney function, total renal clearance amounts to 170-ml/min/1.73 m2 
In a  study in elderly volunteers with impaired renal function (creatinine  clearance approximately 50 
ml/kg/1.73  m2  ),  a  significant  correlation  was  observed  between  creatinine  clearance  and  total  renal 
clearance of memantine. Total renal clearance substantially exceeded renal clearance by filtration, thus 
indicating that a significant part of renal clearance is due to secretion instead of filtration. Memantine 
and its metabolites are mainly excreted via the kidneys (75-90%) and around 10-25% of the dose was 
recovered in the bile and faeces. Renal excretion is higher at acidic urine pH (4.96-5.27) compared to 
alkaline  (7.62-8.18)  conditions  (7-9  fold  higher)  indicating  that  the  urine  pH  is  a  major  factor 
influencing  renal  clearance  of  memantine.  Changes  in  urinary  flow  have  a  statistically  significant 
influence  on  renal  excretion  of  memantine,  but  the  clinical  relevance  seems  to  have  a  minor 
importance (MRZ-9601). When steady state conditions have been established, alterations of the urine 
pH towards alkaline conditions may lead to  an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase of 
side effects. Considerable changes in dietary habits that lead to changes in urinary pH may influence 
the  renal  excretion  of  memantine  (MRZ-9601).  Some  diet  restrictions  are  therefore  necessary.  For 
instance,  a  drastic  change  to  vegetarian  diet  should  be  avoided  during  treatment  with  memantine 
because  the  urine  pH  changes  to  alkaline  could  lead  to  an  accumulation  of  the  drug.  A  minority  of 
memantine is eliminated via sebaceous, lachrymal, and salivary and sweats glands (MRZ-9203). 
• 
Interaction studies: 
Metabolism  and  hepatic  clearance  contribute  to  a  minor  degree  to  the  elimination  of  memantine.  In 
vitro  testing  of  drug-drug  interactions  in  human  liver  microsomes  did  not  show  any  interactions 
between memantine and numerous enzymes commonly involved in drug metabolism (CYP 2A6, CYP 
2C9, CYP 2D6, CYP 2E1, CYP 3A, CYP 1A2, flavin containing monooxygenase, epoxide hydroylase 
and  sulfphation  in  vitro)  indicating  a  low  potential  for  metabolic  drug-drug  interactions  with 
memantine. 
Tubular secretion of memantine occurs via the same transport pathways as for amantadine, cimetidine 
and  probably  triamterene.  Other  drugs  such  as  ranitidine,  procainamide,  quinidine,  quinine  and 
nicotine  that  use  the  same  renal  cationic  transport  system  as  amantadine  may  also  possibly  interact 
with  memantine  leading  to  a  potential  risk  of  increased  plasma  levels.  In  a  cross-over  study  of  20 
healthy volunteers, the tested  drugs  hydrochlorothiazide  (HCT) and  triamterene had no influence  on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  memantine.  Vice  versa,  memantine  had  no  relevant  influence  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  triamterene.  However,  for  HCT  a  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  memantine 
could be demonstrated (MRZ-9702) and there may be a possibility of reduced diuretic effect of HCT. 
According to one published report, concomitant use of memantine and amantadine should be avoided, 
owing  to  the  risk  of  pharmacotoxic  psychosis.  Both  compounds  are  chemically  related  NMDA 
antagonists.  Though  there  are  no  published  reports,  the  same  may  be  true  for  ketamine  (used  as  an 
anaesthetic  agent)  and  dextrometorphan.  There  is  one  publication  on  a  possible  risk  also  for  the 
combination of memantine and phenytoin. 
The  mode  of  action  suggests  that  the  effects  of  anticholinergic  agents,  L-dopa,  and  dopaminergic 
agents  may  be  enhanced  by  memantine.  The  effects  of  barbiturates  and  neuroleptics  may  be 
attenuated.  
9/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant  administration  of  the  antispastic  agents  dantrolen  or  baclofen  can  modify  their  effects, 
thus a dosage adjustment may be necessary. In a recent in vitro study, memantine did not interact with 
therapeutically  relevant 
acetylcholine  esterase 
concentrations. These recommendations are thus mainly based on theoretical considerations. 
inhibitors  (donepezil, 
tacrine,  galantamine) 
in 
In  clinical  trials,  no  interactions  with  the  following  concomitant  medication  could  be  found: 
acetylsalicylic acid, tocopherol, donepezil, paracetamol and chloral hydrate. In keeping with the low 
potential for drug-drug interactions with memantine, in the overall safety database (ISS) there was no 
evidence  of  any  specific  drug-drug  interactions,  with  no  medically  relevant  differences  in  the 
frequency of adverse events experienced with or without a wide  variety of concomitant  medications 
used in the elderly population. The absorption of memantine is unaffected by food. 
Pharmacokinetics in Special populations 
Elderly: Studies conducted in young healthy subjects and in elderly healthy subjects, suggest that the 
pharmacokinetics  of  memantine  are  only  slightly  different  with  age  and  that  these  differences  are 
mainly due to variations in body weight and fat. 
Patients with renal impairment: In agreement with the predominantly renal elimination of memantine, 
clearance  of  memantine  showed  a  dependence  on  renal  function.  When  a  single  20  mg  oral  dose  of 
memantine  was  administered  to  geriatric  subjects  with  different  levels  of  renal  function  (40  to  >80 
mL/min/1.73  m2),  a  significant  correlation  was  observed  between  creatinine  clearance  (renal  function) 
and  total  clearance  of  memantine.  In  subjects  with  normal  kidney  function,  total  clearance  averaged 
161 mL/min and there was a significant decrease with increased degree of renal impairment (p < 0.01). 
Total renal clearance of memantine substantially exceeded renal clearance by filtration, indicating that 
renal clearance is due in part to secretion. The amount of memantine excreted in urine from 0 to 48 hours 
post-dose was significantly reduced with renal impairment (p < 0.01). No significant relationships were 
observed for T1/2 and Cmax values versus creatinine clearance. 
Based on these results a reduction of the dose to 10 mg/day is recommended in the SPC for patients with 
moderately reduced renal function. 
Patients with hepatic impairment: The effect of liver disease  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  memantine 
has not been studied. As memantine is metabolised to a minor extent only, and into metabolites with 
no NMDA-antagonistic activity, clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics are not expected 
in mild to moderate liver impairment. 
Children: Pharmacokinetics of memantine have not been studied in subjects less than 18 years of age. 
• 
Bioequivalence studies: 
Study  MRZ-9201  was  a  three-way  cross-over  study  in  12  healthy  adult  male  volunteers.  Subjects 
received 20 mg memantine in the form of 2 tablets or 40 drops or 1 controlled release tablet as single 
oral doses at intervals of 2 weeks. The pharmacokinetic parameters for memantine tablet and solution 
(mean ± standard deviation, n=12) are given in the following table: 
AUC(0-∞) 
[ng•h/mL] 
1870 ± 352 
2030 ± 312 
CI 90%  
Cmax 
[ng/mL] 
0.99-1.21  26.00 ± 4.07 
26.00 ± 4.22 
CI 90%  
0.93-1.07 
tmax 
[h] 
3.25 ± 1.74 
3.33 ± 1.93 
t½term 
[h] 
68.9 ± 21.6 
74.3 ± 23.8 
Tablet 20 mg 
Solution, 40 drops 
Comparison of the bioavailability of memantine from a 10 mg immediate release tablet and from an 
oral  solution  (drops)  showed  that  these  two  formulations  were  bioequivalent  based  on  the  90% 
confidence intervals for the AUC and Cmax parameters. 
10/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
A total  of 25 clinical studies with  memantine in 4428 patients with dementia or dementia syndrome 
are mentioned in the dossier. 21 pilot studies involved small numbers of patients, different populations 
to those intended for memantine use or dose ranging. As these studies are not considered to contribute 
efficacy  data  in  support  of  this  application,  these  studies  are  not  described  in  detail  in  the  clinical 
efficacy part, but the safety data is included in the Global Analysis of Safety. 
Four phase III studies provide data in relation to the efficacy and safety of memantine in moderately 
severe to severe AD and  VaD.  One of them (MRZ-9605)  was  performed  following scientific  advice 
provided  by  the  CPMP.  It  was  requested  in  order  to  confirm  the  results  obtained  in  other  studies 
(MRZ-9403).  The  advice  recommended  that  a  functional  activity  measure  and  a  global  outcome 
measure (such as CGI-C or CIBIC-plus) had to be considered as the two associated primary endpoints. 
These  criteria  could  be  usefully  associated  with  behavioural  assessment.    In  addition,  as  far  as 
possible,  the  effect  on  cognition  had  to  be  assessed,  as  it  should  be  made  clear  that  the  effects  are 
related to the disease and are not unspecific effects.  
Although all clinical trials were performed with memantine tablets, the solution could be considered 
bioequivalent (see the bioequivalence section) to the tablet formulation and therefore the results from 
the clinical trials are applicable for both the tablet and the solution formulations of memantine.  
Pilot studies in dementia or dementia syndrome 
The  21  pilot  (proof-of-concept)  studies  of  memantine  in  3109  patients  with  dementia  or  dementia 
syndrome examined doses of memantine of 10-30 mg per day.  Fourteen of the studies were double 
blind (11 placebo controlled, 3 ergotoxine substance controlled), 2 blind different-dose studies and 5 
were open or drug monitoring studies. Memantine showed a statistically significant benefit in all pilot 
studies  involving  more  than  65  patients.  In  summary,  7  of  the  12  placebo  controlled  pilot  studies 
showed  statistically  significant  improvements  in  cognitive  tests  and  behavioural  evaluations,  and  5 
were  negative.  In  the  3  short  ergotoxine-substance-controlled  studies,  no  statistically  significant 
difference between the different treatments was demonstrated.  Significant improvements in cognition 
and  behaviour  with  memantine  were  observed  in  3  of  the  5  open  or  drug  monitoring 
studies.Memantine  was  generally  well  tolerated  with  infrequent  side  effects,  which  were  mild  to 
moderate in severity and reversible. The adverse events (AEs) observed were similar to those reported 
by healthy volunteers and included dizziness/vertigo, restlessness, agitation/hyper excitation, fatigue, 
headache, and nausea. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies   
• 
Dose response studies 
There  is  no  formal  placebo-controlled  dose  ranging  study  in  the  clinical  development  program  of 
memantine. The choice of memantine 20 mg daily as a target for the phase III trials is supported by a 
dose  finding  analysis  (MRZ-9501),  which  included  one  pharmacokinetic  study  (n=24)  and  5  of  the 
pilot studies in dementia syndrome (n=575).  This analysis showed a dose response across the range of 
memantine 10 mg to 30 mg daily (and in a small number of patients on 60 mg), with more pronounced 
improvement in Sandoz Clinical Assessment Geriatric Scale (SCAG) with increasing dose, but with a 
dose-dependent  increase  in  the  number  of  AEs.  This  dose  dependent  increase  in  AEs  was  reduced 
when the daily dose was titrated up gradually. There are additional data from a long-term tolerability 
and  safety  trial  (9406)  in  patients  with  impaired  cerebral  functional  capacity.  Study  9406  was 
performed in 147  patients,  who were divided in three groups receiving different dosing regimens. It 
had a high number of dropouts by reasons apparently not related with the medication. These adverse 
events increased in frequency with 30 mg and 60 mg (11% and 18%) with respect to 15 mg (0%). 
Theoretically, the choice of 20 mg is in line with a pharmacological rationale.  According to published 
results the ki –value (ki = absorption constant) of memantine at its binding site on the NMDA-receptor 
is 0.5 µM in human frontal cortex.  
11/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following short-term administration of memantine (up to 14 days) to elderly patients, the CSF/plasma 
ratio of memantine is around 0.5.  Based on this and the observation of steady state plasma levels of 
memantine  of  0.5-1.0 µM  following  20 mg/day  in  phase  I  and  III  studies,  20 mg  per  day  would  be 
expected to result in CSF levels close to the ki –value of memantine. 
Trials in non-dementia indications 
A list of trials in non-dementia indications is provided in the dossier. The safety data from these trials 
are included in the Global Analysis of Safety. 
Main studies (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials) 
The  4  phase  III  studies  adhered  to  GCP  Guidelines  of  the  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal 
Products  (CPMP)  and  Directive  91/507/EEC  of  the  European  Union.  The  studies  were  performed 
according to the Declaration of Helsinki, and in line with local ethical review board requirements for 
ethics and informed consent in this special population with advanced dementia. The study performed 
in Latvia (MRZ-9403) was audited by the competent German health authority. 
Study design  Main objectives 
Study Code 
Doses  N 
Population 
MRZ-9605 
(USA/1999) 
MRZ-9403 
(Latvia/1994) 
MRZ-9202 
(UK/1994) 
MRZ-9408 
(France/1996) 
20 mg  252  Moderately 
severe  to  severe 
AD 
10 mg  167  Moderately 
severe  to  severe 
AD and VaD 
20 mg  548  VaD 
20 mg  288  VaD 
Duration  of 
treatment 
28 weeks  Multicentre, 
Randomised, 
Double  blind, 
placebo contr. 
28 weeks 
12 weeks  Multicentre, 
Randomised, 
double 
blind, 
placebo contr.  
Randomised, 
double 
placebo contr. 
Randomised, 
double 
placebo contr. 
28 weeks 
blind, 
blind, 
1.  CIBIC-plus 
(ITT-LOCF, p=0.064) 
2.  ADCS-ADL 
(ITT-LOCF, p=0.02) 
- CGI-C (p<0.001) 
- BGP (p=0.016) 
- ADAS-Cog (p<0.05) 
- CGI-C (n. s.) 
- ADAS-Cog (p<0.05) 
- CIBIC -plus(n. s.) 
MRZ 90001-9605 
This  study  was  designed  according  to  CPMP  scientific  advice  requested  in  1998  in  order  to 
substantiate the results of study MRZ-9403 in AD patients. 
Description of the study 
Multicentre,  double  blind,  randomised  (1:1),  placebo-controlled,  parallel  study  design  to  enrol 
approximately 250 patients. All patients were to complete Visit 1(screen). At Visit 2(baseline, week 
0), eligible patients were randomised to receive either placebo twice daily or memantine 10 mg b.i.d 
for 28 weeks. After completing the double-blind period of the study (28 weeks) all patients were given 
the opportunity to enter the 24-week open-label treatment period.  
The  inclusion  criteria  were  outpatients  aged  more  than  or  equal  to  50  years  with  a  diagnosis  of 
probable AD (according to DSM-IV and NINCDS-ADRDA) with MMSE total scores between 3 and 
14 points, GDS stages of 5 or 6 and at least FAST stage 6a. Dementia secondary to other conditions 
was to be excluded by physical, neurological, laboratory data, medical history and CT or MRI brain 
scan. Modified Hachinski Ischaemic Scale (HIS score more than or equal to 5) and CT or MRI brain 
scan together with medical history results were to be used for the exclusion of probable VaD. Major 
depressive  disorder  was  to  be  excluded  using  the  DSM-IV  criteria.  Patients  receiving  inadmissible 
medication 
hypnotics, 
neuroleptics/antipsychotics, acute administration of psychotropic drugs for enhancement of cognitive 
function  include  tacrine  and  donepezil)  at  screening  could  be  included  after  an  adequate  wash-out 
period (usually 30 days; 60 days for investigational drugs) 
anticonvulsants, 
(investigational 
anti-Parkinson, 
drug, 
12/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary and secondary endpoints 
The  primary  variables  of  efficacy  were  the  global  rating  (CIBIC-plus)  and  a  functional  rating 
(modified  ADCS-ADL  css  inventory).  Secondary  efficacy  variables  included  the  SIB  (Severe 
Impairment  Battery),  MMSE,  FAST  (Functional  Assessment  Staging),  GDS  (Global  Deterioration 
Scale), Modified ADCS-ADL srr Inventory, NPI (patient assessment and caregiver burden) and RUD 
(Resource Utilisation and caregiver burden). 
Statistical analysis 
Efficacy  outcomes  were  analysed  using  the  Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney  test  for  independent  sample 
using the change from baseline in the patient’s condition. Forthe confirmatory analysis, the outcome 
of interest was the change from baseline in the patient’s condition. For each time point p-values and 
95%  confidence  intervals  for  the  difference  between  placebo  and  memantine  group  means  and 
medians were to be presented. 
Results 
Study populations/accountability of patients  
Two hundred and fifty two (252) outpatients with AD were randomised to double blind treatment and 
were  included  in  ITT  and  safety  subsets.  181  patients  completed  the  double-blind  period  (84  of 
placebo patients and 97 of memantine), and 171 of these were included in the TPP subset (78 placebo 
patients  and 93  memantine patients). The  mean age of the patients was  76.33  years (SD 7.76, range 
53-93)  and  75.94  years  (SD  8.40,  range  50-92)  in  the  placebo  and  memantine  groups,  respectively. 
The respective male/female ratios were 47/79 and 35/91 in the placebo and memantine groups. A total 
of 90% of the patients included were Caucasians, and between 95-95% of the patients in both groups 
had taken prior medications. Overall, 84% of placebo patients and 83% of memantine patients in the 
ITT subset had received prior treatment for AD. The two most common treatments received by both 
treatments groups were Aricept and vitamin E. Mean treatment duration for placebo was 193 days and 
for  memantine  195  days.  The  safety  subset  included  all  patients  who  took  study  drug  and  the  ITT 
subset  included  all  patients  randomised,  whether  or  not  they  received  treatment  or  the  correct 
treatment. Seventy-one patients (71) discontinued the study. Adverse events (35 cases) were the most 
frequent reason for premature discontinuation.  
Efficacy results  
The  two  primary  efficacy  parameters  were  the  CIBIC-plus  global  score  and  ADCS-ADL  change  in 
sum  score.  For  the  global  endpoint  (CIBIC-plus)  a  mean  difference  of  0.25  points  was  observed  in 
favour  of  memantine.  This  difference  is  not  statistically  significant  for  the  ITT  population  in  the 
LOCF  analysis  (p=0.064)  although  it  showed  a  strong  trend.  This  result  may  be  biased  by  the  high 
number of  discontinuations in the  placebo  group. At week  28, using the observed cases  analysis  for 
the  ITT  population  ,there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  (p=0.025)  between  the  treatment 
groups in favour of memantine for CIBIC-plus. 
Using  the  confirmatory  LOCF  analysis  for  the  Modified  ADCS-ADL  Inventory  css,  a  statistically 
significance  difference  (p=0.0217)  in  favour  of  memantine  was  found.  These  positive  findings  were 
confirmed for week 28 with observed cases and for the TPP subset analysis. 
Two responder analyses were performed. Patients were classified as “responders” or “non-responders” 
based on their status in three domains (functional, global and cognitive) after 28 weeks of treatment. 
In the first analysis, a patient was classified as a responder if all three of the following criteria were 
met: 1) The CIBIC-plus score at week 28 was less than or equal to 4 (indicating improvement or no 
change).  2)  The  Modified  ADCS-ADL  css  (change  in  sum  score  from  baseline)  at  week  28  was 
greater than or equal to zero (indicating improvement or no change). 3) The change from baseline in 
the SIB score at week 28 was greater than or equal to zero (indicating improvement or no change). In 
the second responder analysis, a patient was to be classified as a responder if she or he met the CIBIC-
plus  criterion  and  either  the  Modified  ADCS-ADL  css  criterion  or  the  SIB  criterion  defined  above. 
Analysis of both definitions of responders was performed in the ITT and TPP subsets. 
13/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
For  the  first  responder  analysis  (more  stringent)  there  was  no  statistically  significant  difference 
between the treatment groups (p=0.1703), 11% of memantine and 6% of placebo were responders.  
For the second definition there was a statistically significant difference (p<0.001) for the ITT subsets 
29%  vs  10%.  A  responder  analysis  performed  a  posteriori  used  the  definition  improvement  or 
stabilisation  in  the  cognitive  domain  (SIB)  and  in  the  global  domain  (CIBIC+).  There  was  a 
statistically significant difference (p=0.0008) between the treatment groups with 21% of responders in 
the memantine and 6% in the placebo group. This definition of responder is similar to but not the same 
as that used during the CPMP assessment of Rivastigmine for the treatment of mild to moderate AD.  
Secondary  efficacy  variables  were  SIB,  MMSE,  FAST,  GDS,  Modified  ADCS-ADL  sum  scores  of 
response, NPI and Resource Utilisation in Dementia.  Only for  the  secondary efficacy measurements 
SIB  and  FAST,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  memantine  for  the  ITT 
subset. 
As  recommended  by  the  CPMP  scientific  advice,  cognitive  function  was  not  a  primary  endpoint. 
However,  the  SIB  scale  was  used  as  a  secondary  variableThe  SIB  change  score  from  baseline  to 
endpoint was statistically significantly different (p=0.0003) in favour of memantine. With memantine, 
mean scores fell –3.93 from a baseline value of 65.86(representing a 6% decline) compared with a fall 
of –9.84 from a baseline value of 68.33 with placebo (representing a 14% decline). A similar statistical 
improvement was not obtained in MMSE, a cognitive scale assumed to be less sensitive. 
The study also involved a Resource Utilisation in Dementia (RUD) analysis.  Mean monthly caregiver 
time  was  less  with  memantine  (414  hours)  compared  with  placebo  (456  hours),  (ANCOVA,  TPP 
dataset:  treatment  difference  –51.5,  95%  CI  –95.3  to  -7.2,  p=0.02).    During  the  study,  fewer 
memantine patients (1 patient) had to move from the community to an institutional setting compared 
with placebo (5 patients, log rank chi square, TPP dataset, p=0.05). 
Open extension of MRZ-9605 
Out  of  the  181  patients,  who  completed  MRZ-9605,  175  patients  (95  and  80  patients  from  the 
memantine  and  placebo  arm,  respectively)  were  treated  with  memantine  (10  mg  bid)  for  up  to  6 
months.  Activities  of  daily  living  and  global  impression  of  change  were  assessed  after  12  and  24 
weeks of open, extended treatment. The treatment code during the previous double-blind period was 
revealed to patients and physicians only at the end of the full 12-month trial period (or at premature 
discontinuation). 
The  results  of  the  extension  phase  of  study  MRZ-9605  show  some  apparent  improvement  in  the 
deterioration rate (on both primary variables and SIB) of those patients on placebo that, after the end 
of the blinded phase, are switched to memantine so that their status approaches, over the weeks, the 
status of the patients continuing on memantine. Although open label extension studies are of dubious 
interpretation (and  more  when  they refer to  small effects  and in  this  case were other Anti-Dementia 
drugs  -donepezil-  were  used  during  the  extension),  the  extension  phase  of  study  MRZ-9605  gives 
some evidence of a sustained effect of memantine over a period of 12 months.  
MRZ-9403  
This study is the early phase III trial which prompted the request of scientific advice to the CPMP in 
order to confirm the demonstrated efficacy which resulted in study MRZ-9605. As described above, 
study  MRZ-9605  only  confirmed  the  results  in  AD  patients  (and  not  in  VAD  patients)  and  use  dda 
higher dose (20 mg/day). 
Description of the study 
Multicenter,  double  blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  groups  study  designed  to  enrol 
approximately 168 patients. 
The  inclusion  criteria  were  inpatients  aged  between  60  and  80  years  with  a  predefined  diagnosis  of 
moderately severe to severe AD and VaD according to DSM-III, MMSE score <10, GDS stages 5-7, 
CGI-S 5-7 points and with a duration of dementia or symptoms >12 months. 
14/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eventhough  this  study  included  patients  suffering  from  AD  or  from  VaD,  only  the  AD  patients  are 
considered relevant for this application. It is important to note that the criterion for the AD group were 
prospectively  defined  in  the  statistical  analysis  plan,  prior  to  breaking  the  treatment  code.  At  the 
request  of  the  CPMP,  the  results  for  the  AD  patients  were  presented  separately,  after  the  claim  had 
been focussed to moderately severe to severe AD. 
After  an  initial  screening  phase  (and  if  indicated,  wash-out  phase  of  a  minimum  of  two  weeks),  the 
patients were randomised to two parallel groups. A total of 167 patients were randomised to receive 
memantine tablet at a dose of 10 mg daily (although in the first week they received 5 mg) or placebo 
for 3 months. 
Primary and secondary endpoints 
Primary efficacy parameters were the clinical global impression of change (CGI-C) and a functional 
endpoint,  the  Rating  Scale  for  Geriatric  Patients  (BGP),  sub-scale  “care-dependence”.  Among  the 
secondary  parameters  were  CGI-S,  BGP  total  score  and  other  scores,  such  as  Modified  D-Scale:G2 
Scale and  G2C-Scale ,and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL). 
Statistical analysis 
Nonparametric  test  (Fisher’s  exact  test,  Wilcoxon  rank-sum  test)  on  a  confirmatory  and  descriptive 
level was used. The results described with ITT consist in the last observation carried forward (LOCF). 
Results 
Study populations/accountability of patients  
Of the planned 168 patients, 167 were enrolled (82 with memantine and 84 with placebo,one patient 
died after randomisation without taking any trial medication). 166 patients were included in the ITT 
efficacy analysis and 151 were valid for PP(per protocol) analysis. Four memantine and four placebo 
patients prematurely terminated the trial (death was the cause of termination for all four). 
Efficacy Results 
Treatment  differences  between  memantine  and  placebo  patients  were  statistically  significant  for  the 
prospectively defined primary efficacy variables assessed by CGI-C and by changes in BCG sub score 
“care  dependency”  taking  effects  of  different  trial  centre’s  into  account.  Memantine  resulted  in  a 
significantly  higher  percentage  of  improvement  rates  for  the  global  endpoint  (defined  as  any 
improvement in CGI-C) compared with placebo at both week 4 (59% vs 40%, p=0.006) and week 12 
(73%  vs  45%  p<0.001,  stratified  Wilcoxon  test).  The  same  improvement  rates  for  CGI-C  with 
memantine  (73%  for  both  subsets)  were  observed  in  those  patients  with  AD  (Hachinski  Ischaemic 
Scale [HIS] sum  score <5  at baseline, n=79) and VaD (HIS ≥5 at baseline, n=87).   Global endpoint 
response rates with memantine were slightly higher (77%) in patients with less severe degrees of care 
dependency (BGP care dependency sub score <20 points at baseline, n=75) compared with response 
rates (70%) in those with care dependency scores of ≥ 20 at baseline (n=91). Definition of subsets for 
this  analysis  was  based  on  the  HIS  scores  because  for  a  minority  of  patients  CT  scans  were  not 
available. 
Memantine  was  also  significantly  superior  to  placebo  for  the  functional  endpoint  after  12  weeks  of 
treatment (p = 0.016, stratified Wilcoxon test), despite a rather large placebo effect.  In the memantine 
group,  the  mean  BGP  care  dependency  subscore  (± standard  deviation  [SD])  fell  from  21.3 ± 7.6  at 
baseline to 15.6 ± 8.8 by 12 weeks. In the placebo group the corresponding values were 21.8 ± 7.7 and 
18.1 ± 9.4. 66% of memantine treated patients compared with 40% of placebo patients had clinically 
relevant (≥ 15% from baseline) improvements in BGP subscore. 
The  superiority  of  memantine  treatment  was  also  shown  in  a  responder  analysis  using  combined 
response criteria.   Combined response for both primary efficacy criteria (improvement in CGI-C and 
≥15%  improvement  in  BGP)  was  observed  in  61.3%  of  memantine  treated  patients  compared  with 
31.6% of placebo treated patients. 
15/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among  the  secondary  parameters  examined,  a  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant  benefit 
for  memantine compared with placebo was also observed in the BGP total score. In all items of the 
D-scale memantine patients performed better than placebo. This advantage was statistically significant 
(p<0.05)  for  the  following  items:  ability  to  stand  up,  move,  wash,  take  a  bath  or  shower,  dress,  use 
toilet, group activities, and hobbies/interests. In this study a cognitive endpoint was not tested. 
As confirmation of efficacy was only obtained for AD patients (study MRZ-9605 did not include VaD 
patients)  the  claimed  indication  was  restricted  to  AD  patients.  After  the  claim  had  been  focused  to 
moderately severe to severe AD, the results for the AD patients were presented separately. Despite the 
relatively  small  sample  size,  an  analysis  of  the  effect  of  memantine  in  this  group  of  AD  patients 
(N=79)  demonstrated  statistically  significant  efficacy  of  memantine  treatment  in  the  three  core 
domains as shown in the following table: 
Table: Efficacy Results for the AD patients, MRZ-9403 (ITT population)  
ITT-LOCF analysis 
ITT-OC analysis 
Memantine 
(n=41) 
Placebo 
(n=38) 
p * 
Memantine 
(n=39) 
Placebo 
(n=37) 
BGP cognitive 
-2.00 
CGI-C 
3.15 
-1.03 
3.47 
0.007 
-2.10 
0.002 
3.08 
-1.05 
3.46 
p * 
0.004 
0.005 
BGP 
functional  
*p-values are based on CMH test for raw means (using modified ridit score), controlling for 
centre. 
0.003 
0.002 
-6.05 
-2.79 
-5.76 
-2.89 
Also in thissubset of AD patients, a responder analysis resulted in a statistically significant advantage 
for  memantine  over  placebo.  The  criterion  for  response  was:  any  improvement  in  the  global  rating 
(CGI-C) and >15% improvement in the Assessment Scale for Geriatric Patients (BGP) subscore care 
dependency.  There  were  61%  (n=25)  responders  in  the  memantine  group  versus  26%  (n=10)  with 
placebo (p=0.003). 
MRZ 9202 
Description of the study 
This study was conducted in population of vascular dementia patients and is therefore less relevant for 
the claimed indication in AD patients. 
This phase III study was a comparative study of efficacy and tolerability of memantine versus placebo 
in patients suffering from probable vascular dementia (acc. NINDS-AIREN). The primary objective of 
this  study  was  to  determine  the  efficacy  (assessed  by  ADAS-cog  and  CGI-C)  of  memantine  in 
comparison  with  placebo.  Tolerability  and  safety  of  memantine  were  also  assessed.  There  was  an 
initial placebo-controlled phase, followed by an open-label phase; one planned interim analysis. The 
number  of patients planned  was 545.579 were actually randomised,  464  completed  the  double-blind 
phase; 396 completed the open-label phase. 
Male  and  postmenopausal  female  outpatients  or  day-care  patients  aged  ≥50  years  with  an  onset  of 
symptoms  at  least  one  year  before  randomisation  were  included.  They  had  to  have  a  diagnosis  of 
probable  vascular  dementia  (DSM-III-R,  NINDS-AIREN,  Hachinski's  Ischaemic  Score  modified  by 
Rosen ≥4, CT/MRI), the severity of which was assessed as mild to moderate (DSM-III-R, MMSE ≥10 
and  <23).  Depressive  pseudodementia  (HAM-D  ≥18)  as  well  as  other  secondary  forms  of  dementia 
were  excluded  using  CT,  laboratory  parameters,  physical  and  neurological  examination  and  medical 
history. 
16/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Memantine-HCl tablets were administered orally with a gradual dose increase to 20 mg/day over the 
first 3 weeks (dose titration: 5 - 10 - 15 - 20 mg/day), twice daily b.i.d. The treatment regimen was: 
Run-in  phase  (placebo  single  blind)  for  two  weeks,  followed  by  a  double-blind  phase  (memantine 
tablets 2 x 10 mg/day versus placebo for 28 weeks), and an open-label phase (memantine tablets 2 x 
10 mg/day for 24 weeks). 
Primary and secondary endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  was  evaluated  during  the  double-blind  phase  using  the  variables,  ADAS-cog  and 
CGI-C.  Secondary variables were GBS, NOSGER and MMSE. During the open-label phase efficacy 
was evaluated by ADAS-cog, CGI-C, GBS, NOSGER and MMSE.  Tolerability/Safety was evaluated 
by adverse events, standard laboratory values and ophthalmologic assessments. 
Statistical analysis 
Nonparametric  confirmatory  statistical  tests  for  primary  criteria  were  applied:  for  ADAS-cog 
Wilcoxon-Mann Whitney U test, and for CGI-C, χ2 or Fisher exact test. 
Results 
In  the  confirmatory  analysis,  ADAS-cog  was  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  memantine. 
However,  CGI-C  did  not  show  any  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  groups.  In  the 
pooled ITT sample (i.e., samples before and after interim analyses combined), memantine resulted in a 
better  ADAS-cog  change  from  baseline  (i.e.,  by  a  mean  of  1.75  points  [median  2  points])  than 
placebo.  Improvement  of  cognitive  performance  relative  to  placebo  was  more  pronounced  in  the 
subgroup of patients with low MMSE scores at baseline, and in those without macrolesions (usually 
infarctions) in their CT/MRI scans. For the secondary efficacy parameters (MMSE, NOSGER, GBS), 
there  were  a  number  of  advantages  in  favour  of  memantine,  which  reached  statistical  significance 
(p=0.02) for the NOSGER dimension memory. 
MRZ 9408 
Description of the study 
This study was conducted in population of vascular dementia patients and is therefore less relevant for 
the claimed indication in AD patients. 
The phase III study was a comparative trial investigating efficacy and tolerability of memantine versus 
placebo in patients suffering from probable vascular dementia acc. NINDS-AIREN.  There were 403 
patients screened with 321 patients randomised of which 171 patients entered an open label period.  
Male  and  postmenopausal  female  outpatients  ≥  60  years  with  an  onset  of  symptoms  of  at  least  6 
months  prior  to randomisation were  included.  Subjects  had to  have  a  dignosis of  probable vascular 
dementia  (DSM-III-R,  NINDS-AIREN) with a Modified  Ischemic Scale  (MIS) ≤ 5 and a recent CT 
scan (or MRI).  Severity should be mild to moderate (DSM-III-R, MMSE ≥ 12 and ≤ 20). Depressive 
pseudodementia  was  excluded  (HAM-D  ≥  15  points)  as  were  other  secondary  types  of  dementia  by 
CT, laboratory parameters, physical examination, neurological examination and medical history.   
Memantine  HCl  tablets  were  administered  2  x  10  mg/day,  per  o.s.  (Gradual  dose  increase  during 
Weeks 1-3).  The treatment regimen was as follows: Week – 2 to baseline (Day 0) a placebo run-in 
period;  Week  1  to  week  28  a  double  blind  treatment  period  and  from  Week  29  on  (still  ongoing) 
memantine (open label period). 
Primary and secondary endpoints 
Evaluation of primary efficacy was made by ADAS-Cog and dichotomised CIBIC-Plus (independent 
rater).  Secondary  efficacy  variables  were  ADAS-Noncog,  GBS,  CGI-C  (physician),  CGI-C 
(caregiver),  NOSGER,  MMSE,  CIBIC-Plus,  ADAS-cog.  Safety  was  evaluated  by  assessment  of 
adverse events, standard laboratory values at week 0, 12, 28, 38 and 51, ECG, vital signs and physical 
examination (week –2 and 28). 
17/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
In summary the confirmatory CIBIC-plus analysis was in favour of memantine (at visit 7- week 28) 
but  did  not  reach  statistical  significance.  Due  to  the  hierarchical  testing  procedure  of  the  protocol, 
confirmatory  testing  for  ADAS-cog  was  not  performed.  On  the  ADAS-cog  total  score,  memantine 
patients  improved  by  0.4  (mean),  while  the  placebo  group  worsened  by  1.6  points  (exploratory 
analysis p  =  0.01, ITT, LOCF replacement). Among the secondary efficacy parameters,  which  were 
analysed  in  the  TPP  subset,  CGI-C  ratings  (trichotomised  and  raw  values)  of  the  investigators  were 
statistically  significant  in  favour  of  memantine.  In  addition,  there  was  a  statistically  significant 
treatment effect for the MMSEtotal score with a difference between groups of 1.7 points in favour of 
memantine  (p  =  0.003),  and  for  the  sub-score  "Intellectual  Function"  of  the  GBS.  A  sub-group 
analysis  of  the  ADAS-cog  results  by  MMSE  baseline  strata,  while  resulting  in  an  advantage  for  the 
memantine  treatment    group  in  all  subsets,  showed  the  best  treatment  result  for  memantine  in  the 
subset of patients with low MMSE scores <15.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  requested  indication  was  restricted  to  treatment  of  patients  with  moderately  severe  to  severe 
Alzheimer’s  disease.  Memantine  is  not  proposed  any  more  for  vascular  dementia  for  which  the 
submitted evidence was clearly insufficient. The studies in VaD patients (MRZ- 9408 and MRZ-9202) 
did  not  include  patients  that  reflected  the  claimed  indication.  They  were  patients  with  less  severity 
than those proposed to be treated. A reanalysis so as to study as a subgroup the patients towards the 
“moderately  severe”  end  of  the  included  patients  was  performed  but  this  can  not  be  considered  as 
sufficient  evidence.  In  addition  the  suitability  of  the  ADAS-cog  (Alzheimer  Disease  Assessment 
Scale) score for patients with vascular dementia remains in doubt. Also there is no confirmatory well 
designed trial for VaD patients as it is the case for AD patients  
The pivotal trial MRZ 9605 was conducted in a patient population with a moderately severe to severe 
AD, which was adequately defined in terms of diagnostic criteria and the proposed dose of 20 mg/day 
was  used.  The  duration  of  follow-up  (6  months  with  an  open  extension)  is  acceptable  to  evaluate 
efficacy  in  a  chronic  situation.  As  it  is  consensual  nowadays  the  primary  end-points  were  double 
involving  2  domains:  global  and  functional.  The  trial  also  included  a  pre-specified  analysis  of 
responders. 252 patients were randomised and 181 completed the study. The discontinuation rate was 
higher in the placebo group 33% vs. 23% in the memantine group. 
Of the two well-chosen primary variables (Modified ADCS-ADL css Inventory and CIBIC plus) only 
the functional one (ADCS-ADL css Inventory) reached statistically significant difference (p=0.0217) 
while  the  global  one  (CIBIC  plus)  only  showed  a  strong  trend  (p=0.064).  A  reanalysis  shows  that 
when the CPMP Guideline Points to Consider on Missing Data (CPMP/EWP/1776/99 draft) is used 
(Observed  cases/OC  instead  of  the  pre-established  LOCF)  the  borderline  statistical  significance 
(p=0.064) becomes full significance (p=0.025). No cognitive variable was considered as primary at the 
suggestion of a previous scientific advice of the CPMP on the basis that cognition would be difficult to 
assess in such advanced demented patients and that minor cognitive changes would be inconsequential 
unless  they  translated  into  global  and  functional  improvements.  It  was  considered  as  a  secondary 
endpoint  (SIB)  and  it  obtained  statistically  significant  results  (p=0.0003,  LOCF)  in  favour  of 
memantine.  In  addition,  when  a  “responder”  analysis  was  performed,  statistical  significance  was 
reached  in  one  of  the  two  pre-established  definitions  of  responder  used.  The  applicant  provides  a 
further  (post  hoc)  definition  (related  to  responses  in  both  cognitive  and  global  end-points)  which  is 
also  positive  for  memantine.    This  definition  of  responder  is  similar  but  not  the  same  as  that  used 
during the CPMP assessment of Rivastigmine for the treatment of mild to moderate AD.  
The  results  of  the  extension  phase  of  study  MRZ-9605  show  some  apparent  improvement  in  the 
deterioration rate (on both primary variables and SIB) of those patients on placebo that, after the end 
of the blinded phase, are switched to memantine so that their status approaches, over the weeks, the 
status of the patients continuing on memantine. Although open label extension studies are of dubious 
interpretation  (and  more  when  they  refer  to  small  effects),  the  extension  phase  of  study  MRZ-9605 
substantiates the sustained efficacy of memantine over a treatment period of 12 months.  
18/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  other  antidementia  drugs  (donepezil)  were  used  during  the  extension  phase  further 
complicating the interpretation of the results. 
Study MRZ 9403 included vascular dementia patients but the 79 Alzheimer’s disease patients included 
seem to have been adequately pre-classified and in them memantine was better than placebo in both 
primary endpoints (functional and global )although only half the proposed dose was used and that it 
only  lasted  for  three  months.  However,  the  statistically  significant  and  consistent  results  favouring 
memantine provide supportive evidence of the efficacy of memantine in AD patients. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure: 
The safety database for memantine covers 32 completed studies in various indications which included 
3249 subjects, of whom 2863 provide safety data (386 patients withdrew prior to any drug exposure).   
Of the 2863 patients in the safety population of the Integrated safety summary (ISS), 227 were healthy 
volunteers from pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies, 2231 were patients fromfromclinical 
studies in dementia/dementia syndrome, 587 of whom had moderately severe to severe AD and VaD, 
205  were  patients  with  Parkinson’s  disease  and  200  were  patients  with  spasticity.    The  overall 
population consisted of 54% female, 45% male, with median age of 74 years (range 18-97). A total of 
1943 subjects received memantine, 1158 placebo (counting 250 individuals in both the memantine and 
placebo group as they received both agents), and 12 baclofen (not discussed in this report).  Median 
exposure to  memantine was  90  days, to  placebo 84 days (memantine range  1-570,  placebo range  1-
241).  A total of 1545 memantine patients were treated with the recommended dose (20 mg per day), 
with 360 receiving doses above the recommended level. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths: 
The  overall  frequency  of  patients  who  experienced  AEs,  irrespective  of  relationship  to  study 
medication was similar with memantine (n=922 out of 1717; 54%) compared with placebo (n=624 out 
of 1158; 54%).  The majority of AEs were mild to moderate in intensity.  
Most frequent AEs with memantine vs placebo irrespective of relationship to study medication (≥3% 
on memantine) in all studies were as follows: 
Preferred term (WHO ART)  Memantine, n=1717 
Placebo, n=1158 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Fatigue 
Agitation 
Somnolence 
Confusion 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Sleep disorder 
Nausea 
174 (10%) 
129 (8%) 
114 (7%) 
100 (6%) 
86 (5%) 
76 (4%) 
62 (4%) 
48 (3%) 
45 (3%) 
44 (3%) 
66 (6%) 
40 (4%) 
47 (4%) 
110 (10%) 
54 (5%) 
73 (6%) 
44 (4%) 
39 (3%) 
46 (4%) 
28 (2%) 
On  the  whole,  195  (11%)  memantine  patients  and  110(10%)  placebo  patients  experienced  AEs  that 
lead  to  discontinuation  of  therapy.  Dizziness  was  the  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  of 
memantine (2% vs 1% for placebo). All other AEs leading to discontinuation occurred in less than or 
equal to 1% of patients with no particular pattern of type of AE between groups. 
The  most  frequent  AEs  assessed  as  attributable  to  study  drug  (ADRs)  were  dizziness  (7%  vs  2%), 
headache (5% vs 2%) and fatigue/tiredness (4% vs 1%). Agitation occurred less with memantine than 
with placebo (6% vs 10%).  
19/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  patients  with  moderately  severe  to  severe  dementia,  the  overall  frequency  of  AEs  irrespective  of 
relationship to medication was similar with memantine compared with placebo (65.2% vs 65.6%). In 
this  target  population,  the  most  frequent  adverse  events  were  similar  to  the  overall  population  (all 
studies) in the Integrated Safety Summary database. Although relatively uncommon in both groups, a 
slightly  higher  frequency  of  hallucinations  (all  of  them  “mild  to  moderate”)  was  observed  with 
memantine (5% vs 2% on placebo) and a lower frequency of agitation was observed with memantine 
vs placebo, in keeping with the observation in the overall safety population treated with memantine. 
Most  frequent  AEs  with  ≥  3%  on  memantine  vs  placebo  irrespective  of  relationship  to  study 
medication, patients with moderately severe to severe dementia (Patients with MMSE < 15 at baseline, 
including VaD patients): 
Preferred term (WHO ART)  Memantine 
Agitation 
Inflicted Injury 
Urinary Incontinence 
Diarrhoea 
Insomnia 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Hallucination 
Fall 
Constipation 
Coughing 
Bronchitis 
Vomiting 
Somnolence 
Anorexia 
Confusion 
Urinary Tract Infection 
n=299 
27 (9.0%) 
20 (6.7%) 
17 (5.7%) 
16 (5.4%) 
16 (5.4%) 
15 (5.0%) 
15 (5.0%) 
15 (5.0%) 
14 (4.7%) 
12 (4.0%) 
12 (4.0%) 
11 (3.7%) 
11 (3.7%) 
10 (3.3%) 
10 (3.3%) 
9 (3.0%) 
9 (3.0%) 
Placebo 
n=288 
50 (17.4%) 
20 (6.9%) 
21 (7.3%) 
14 (4.9%) 
14 (4.9%) 
8 (2.8%) 
9 (3.1%) 
6 (2.1%) 
14 (4.9%) 
13 (4.5%) 
17 (5.9%) 
13 (4.5%) 
6 (2.1%) 
10 (3.5%) 
6 (2.1%) 
9 (3.1%) 
22 (7.6%) 
The  pattern  of  AEs  assessed  as  at  least  possibly  related  to  trial  medication  (adverse  drug  reactions, 
ADR) in patient with dementia for the application was similar to that observed for AEs irrespective of 
treatment  relationship.  The  overall  frequency  of  AEs  for  memantine  (24%)  was  equal  to  placebo 
(25%). Agitation was the most frequent ADR, but again was less frequent with memantine (4%) than 
with placebo (8%). The AEs attributable to study drug (ADRs) occurring most commonly (> 1%) with 
memantine and being more frequent than with placebo were hallucination (2.0 vs 0.7%), dizziness (1.7 
vs  1.0%),  headache  (1.7  vs  1.4%),  confusion  (1.3  vs  0.3%),  and  fatigue/tiredness  (1.0  vs  0.3%). 
Further  uncommon  ADRs  were:  anxiety,  cystitis,  hypertonia,  increased  libido  and  vomiting.  There 
were no major differences in the frequency of serious adverse events (SAEs) between memantine and 
placebo.  
The  safety  database  does  not  list  any  signs  or  symptoms  of  withdrawal  after  discontinuation  of 
memantine treatment.  This is in line with the relatively long half-life of the compound. The majority 
of AEs occurred more commonly at the beginning of treatment, with 9% of memantine treated patients 
compared with 6% of placebo treated patients experiencing at least one AE on Day 1 of therapy, with 
a  cumulative  3-month  incidence  showing  a  similar  frequency  of  AEs  with  memantine  and  placebo 
(48% and 45% respectively).  
20/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall incidence of AEs increased with age in both the memantine and placebo groups with no 
suggestion  of  any  age-related  tolerability  issues  with  memantine.  If  anything,  tolerability  of 
memantine  compared  with  placebo  appeared  to  be  better  in  patients  >65  years,  which  may  in  part 
reflect  poor  tolerability  of  higher  than  recommended  doses  in  short  lived  phase  I  trials  involving 
younger subjects. There were no relevant gender differences in tolerability. 
Serious Adverse events 
There were no major differences in the frequency of SAEs between memantine and placebo, with 125 
(7%)  memantine  treated  patients  and  112  (10%)  placebo  treated  patients  who  experienced  a  SAEs.  
The  majority  of  SAEs  were  assessed  as  unrelated  to  study  medication,  with  38  (2%)  on  memantine 
and  13  (1%)  on  placebo  assessed  as  at  least  possibly  related  to  treatment.    There  were  no  obvious 
differences between the groups in type of SAEs. 
Deaths 
A total of 41 (2%) patients on memantine and 16 (1%) on placebo died during the programme, with no 
major differences in cause of death between groups. The applicant explains the slightly higher rate of 
death for memantine patients by a relatively high mortality in one nursing home trial (MRZ-9406) in 
which  all  patients  received  memantine.  In  placebo-controlled  trials,  the  mortality  rates  overall  were 
similar to placebo. 
Laboratory findings 
There  were  no  clinically  relevant  differences  in  haematological  or  biochemical  parameters  between 
memantine  and  placebo  patients.  The  incidence  of  laboratory  findings  reported,  as  AEs  was  low  in 
both groups (4% in memantine and 6% in placebo). There were no important differences in vital signs 
or ECG changes for memantine compared with placebo. 
Post-marketing experience, phase IV 
Post-marketing safety experience is available from the German market. More than 100 million daily 
doses of memantine have been sold.  Overall, the applicant received spontaneous reports of 73 events 
in  48  patients.  The  following  events  were  reported  in  more  than  one  patient:  nervousness  (6), 
convulsions (4), tremor (3), aggressive reaction (3), circulatory failure (2), hypertension (2), dizziness 
(2), dyskinesia (2), nausea (2), menstrual disorder (2), bullous eruption (2), pruritus (2). 
In  addition,  2  post  marketing  surveillance  studies  of  memantine  in  “dementia  syndrome”  have  been 
performed  in  Germany.  In  the  first  (MRZ-9002),  1420  patients  with  dementia  syndrome  were 
followed during treatment with memantine, usually at doses of 10-20 mg per day, for more than one 
year. The most frequently reported AEs were restlessness (1.3%), nausea (0.9%), dizziness (0.8%) and 
fatigue/tiredness  or  sleep  disorders  (0.4%).  In  the  second  post-marketing  surveillance  (MRZ-9303), 
531 care-dependent patients were treated with memantine up to 30 mg per day for a mean of 44 days. 
Memantine  was  well  tolerated,  n=16  (3%)  patients  reported  AEs,  with  restlessness  being  the  most 
frequent symptom. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The product has been on the market for nearly twenty years in a European country without apparent 
cause  for  concern,  which  can  be  considered  as  giving  some  reassurance.  In  addition  there  has  been 
clinical exposure in the older clinical trials. 
The  most  frequent  adverse  events  reported  with  memantine  have  been  dizziness,  followed  by 
headache  and  fatigue.  Agitation  occurred  less  with  memantine  than  with  placebo.  There  is  no 
suggestion  of  a  psychedelic  effect  that  could  be  feared  as  a  result  of  activation  of  the  NMDA 
receptors. Even if the target population would have had difficulties in reporting this kind of effects the 
fact that the levels of agitation were decreased is in favour of absence of such theoretical psychedelic 
effects.  
21/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite the absence of studies formally addressing the question of withdrawal and dependence, there 
are no signals in the data available suggesting its existence. Taking into account the indication granted,  
the clinical evidence available gives reassurance of a sufficient safety profile. 
Considering the still pending preclinical issues, the company commits to perform a long term safety 
monitoring  of  ocular,  neurotoxic  and  pulmonar  side-effects.  The  company  also  proposes  to  perform 
new  clinical  studies  of  a  longer  duration  and  with  higher  doses  than  those  proposed  currently  in 
patients with glaucoma, neuropathic pain and mild to moderate AD. 
5. 
• 
Overall conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The  important  quality  characteristics  of  memantine  film-coated  tablets  and  oral  drops  solution  are 
well-defined  and controlled,  and the products are formulated,  manufactured and controlled in a  way 
that is characteristic of each product. The specifications and batch analytical results indicate consistent 
products,  which  in  turn  indicates  uniform  clinical  performance  from  batch  to  batch.  There  are  no 
outstanding quality issues, which would have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  
• 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence that memantine acts as a 
non-competitive  antagonist of the NMDA receptors.  In the general pharmacology studies,  the  major 
observed  sign  was  ataxia  preceded  by  increased  locomotor  activity.  The  target  organ  producing 
limiting  toxicity  is  the  brain.  Major  observed  effect  was  ataxia  and  at  highest  doses  seizures  and 
respiratory arrest were observed.  
Neuronal  vacuoles  (not  related  to  Olney  lesions)  in  the  central  nervous  system  were  seen,  at  lethal 
dose levels in the 13-week dietary mouse study. The repeated dose toxicology programme revealed an 
increased  prevalence  of  pulmonary  foamy  macrophages  at  high  doses  of  memantine  and  electron 
microscopic examination of the eye tissues showed findings of abnormal lysosomal storage (granules) 
in  ganglion  cells  and  in  pigment  epithelium  cells  only.  Most  of  these  findings  are  suggested  to  be 
species-specific  and/or  to  appear  at  doses  well  in  excess  of  the  therapeutic  dose.  Exposure  data  for 
these  findings  were  scarce  and  safety  margin  has  been  calculated  mainly  from  administered  dose. 
Although  it  is  a  limitation,  the  post  marketing  experience  for  memantine  for  decades  in  a  European 
country with no special safety concerns has also been taken into account. The Company are already in 
the  process  of  conducting  extensive  clinical  trials  where  relevant  long-term  safety  data  will  be 
collected.  They  commit  to  provide  on  an  annual  basis  the  CPMP  with  safety  analysis  of  two  large 
placebo-controlled studies in glaucoma patients, neuropathic pain and non-severe Alzheimer's disease 
patients. 
• 
Efficacy 
The indication finally requested is: treatment of patients with moderately severe to severe Alzheimer’s 
disease.  
The pivotal trial MRZ-9605 was conducted in a patient population with moderately severe to severe 
AD, which was adequately defined by the diagnostic criteria used. The duration (6 months followed 
by an open extension phase) is acceptable to evaluate efficacy in a chronic situation. 
For the indication moderately severe to severe AD, clinical efficacy is documented by MRZ-9605 and 
the AD patients in MRZ-9403 in functional (ADL) and clinical global impression of change as well as 
cognitive  domains.  Responder  analyses  in  both  studies  showed  a  higher  rate  of  responders  for 
memantine than for placebo. 
The extension phase of study MRZ-9605 gives some evidence of a sustained effect of memantine over 
a treatment period of 12 months. Additionally, study MRZ-9605 reported a positive effect on activities 
of  daily  living,  which  appears  to  transfer  into  measurable  benefits  in  caregiver  time  as  well  as  a 
reduction in the number of institutionalisations.  
22/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Safety 
The product has been on the market for nearly twenty years in a European country without apparent 
cause  for  concern,  which  can  be  considered  as  giving  some  reassurance.  In  addition  there  has  been 
clinical exposure in the older clinical trials. 
In  clinical  trials  the  most  frequent  adverse  events  reported  with  memantine  have  been  dizziness, 
followed by headache and fatigue. Agitation occurred less with memantine than with placebo. There is 
no  suggestion  of  a  psychedelic  effect  that  could  be  feared  as  a  result  of  activation  of  the  NMDA 
receptors. Even if the target population would have had difficulties in reporting this kind of effectsthe 
fact that the levels of agitation were decreased is in favour of absence of such theoretical psychedelic 
effects.  Despite  the  absence  of  studies  formally  addressing  the  question  of  withdrawal  and 
dependence, there are no signals in the data available suggesting its existence. Taking into account the 
indication granted, the clinical evidence available gives reassurance of a sufficient safety profile. 
Considering the still pending preclinical issues, the company are already in the process of conducting 
extensive clinical trials where relevant long-term safety data will be collected. In some of them higher 
doses  than  those  now  approved  will  be  used.    These  studies  will  enroll  patients  with  glaucoma, 
neuropathic pain and milder forms of AD. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Axura  in  the  treatment  of  moderately  severe  to  severe 
Alzheimer’s disease is favourable. 
23/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
