EMA/66669/2020 
EMEA/H/C/004984 
Azacitidine Mylan (azacitidine) 
An overview of Azacitidine Mylan and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Azacitidine Mylan and what is it used for? 
Azacitidine Mylan is used for the treatment of adults with the following diseases, if they cannot have 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (when the patient’s bone marrow is replaced to form new 
bone marrow that produces healthy cells): 
•  myelodysplastic syndromes, a group of conditions where the bone marrow produces abnormal 
blood cells and not enough healthy ones. In some cases, myelodysplastic syndromes can lead to 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML, a cancer affecting white blood cells called myeloid cells). 
Azacitidine Mylan is used in patients with an intermediate to high risk of progressing to AML or 
death; 
• 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (a cancer affecting white blood cells called monocytes). 
Azacitidine Mylan is used when the bone marrow consists of 10 to 29% abnormal cells and the 
bone marrow is not producing large numbers of white blood cells; 
•  AML that has developed from a myelodysplastic syndrome, where the bone marrow consists of 20 
to 30% abnormal cells; 
•  AML, where the bone marrow has more than 30% abnormal cells. 
Azacitidine Mylan contains the active substance azacitidine. 
Azacitidine Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Azacitidine Mylan contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called 
Vidaza. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Azacitidine Mylan used? 
Azacitidine Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
monitored under the supervision of a doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines. Before 
receiving Azacitidine Mylan, patients should receive medicines to prevent nausea (feeling sick) and 
vomiting. 
The recommended dose of Azacitidine Mylan depends on the patient’s height and weight. It is given as 
an injection under the skin of the upper arm, thigh or abdomen (belly) every day for 1 week, followed 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
by 3 weeks with no treatment. This 4-week period is one ‘cycle’. Treatment is given for at least 6 
cycles and, if it is working, it is continued for as long as it benefits the patient. The liver, kidneys and 
blood should be checked before each cycle. If the blood counts fall too low or if the patient develops 
kidney problems, the next treatment cycle should be delayed or a lower dose should be used.  
For more information about using Azacitidine Mylan, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Azacitidine Mylan work? 
The active substance in Azacitidine Mylan, azacitidine, belongs to the group ‘anti-metabolites’. 
Azacitidine is an analogue of cytidine, which means that it is incorporated into the genetic material of 
cells (RNA and DNA). It is thought to work by changing the way the cell turns genes on and off and by 
interfering with the production of new RNA and DNA. These actions are expected to correct problems 
with the development of blood cells in the bone marrow that cause myelodysplastic disorders, and to 
kill cancerous cells in leukaemia. 
How has Azacitidine Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Vidaza, and do not need to be repeated for Azacitidine Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Azacitidine Mylan. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Azacitidine Mylan is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because the 
composition of Azacitidine Mylan is the same as that of the reference medicine and, when given by 
injection under the skin, the active substance in both products is expected to be absorbed in the same 
way. 
What are the benefits and risks of Azacitidine Mylan? 
Because Azacitidine Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Azacitidine Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Azacitidine Mylan 
has been shown to be comparable to Vidaza. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Vidaza, the 
benefits of Azacitidine Mylan outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Azacitidine Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Azacitidine Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Azacitidine Mylan are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Azacitidine Mylan are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Azacitidine Mylan (azacitidine)  
EMA/66669/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Azacitidine Mylan 
Azacitidine Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 March 2020. 
Further information on Azacitidine Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/azacitidine-mylan. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 03-2020. 
Azacitidine Mylan (azacitidine)  
EMA/66669/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
