Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for or Azacitidine Betapharm (azacitidine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Azacitidine Betapharm. The RMP 
details important risks of Azacitidine Betapharm, and how more information will be obtained 
about Azacitidine Betapharm’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Azacitidine Betapharm’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Azacitidine Betapharm for 
injection should be used.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Azacitidine 
Betapharm’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Azacitidine Betapharm is authorised for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with higher-risk myelodysplastic syndromes 
(MDS), chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) or acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains azacitidine as the active substance and it is given by 
subcutaneous administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Azacitidine Betapharm’s benefits can be found in 
Azacitidine Betapharm’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/azacitidine-betapharm. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important risks of Azacitidine Betapharm, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Azacitidine Betapharm’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Azacitidine Betapharm are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Azacitidine Betapharm. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Infections 
•  Haemorrhagic events 
• 
•  None 
•  None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Azacitidine Betapharm. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Azacitidine Betapharm. 
 
