Summary of risk management plan for Azacitidine Mylan (Azacitidine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Azacitidine Mylan. The RMP details 
important risks of azacitidine, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about azacitidine’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Azacitidine  Mylan's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Azacitidine  Mylan  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Azacitidine 
Mylan's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Azacitidine  Mylan's  is  authorised  for  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  who  are  not 
eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with:  intermediate-2  and  high-risk 
myelodysplastic  syndromes,  chronic  myelomonocytic  leukaemia  with  10-29  %  marrow  blasts 
without  myeloproliferative  disorder,  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  with  20-30  %  blasts  and  multi-
lineage dysplasia and acute myeloid leukaemia with >30% marrow blasts. It contains azacitidine 
as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  subcutaneously  into  the  upper  arm,  thigh  or  abdomen. 
Azacitidine is available in the form of powder for suspension for injection with a strength of 25 
mg/mL. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Azacitidine  Mylan's  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Azacitidine  Mylan's  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Azacitidine Mylan, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so, that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important  risks  of  Azacitidine  Mylan  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered 
to patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns 
for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Azacitidine Mylan. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
•  Haemorrhagic events (Bleeding related problems) 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
• 
Infections  
•  None 
•  None 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks  
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Azacitidine Mylan. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Azacitidine Mylan. 
