30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Azacitidine Mylan  
International non-proprietary name: azacitidine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004984/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 13 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 13 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 13 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 14 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 14 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 14 
2.4.2. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 15 
2.4.4. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 15 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 15 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 16 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 16 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 16 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 16 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 17 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 2/18 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
AML 
ANC 
API 
AS 
ASMF 
AUC 
BUN 
CMML   
CYPs 
DOSEai    
DSC 
Fpen 
GC  
GSTs 
HPLC 
HSCT 
ICH 
ICP-MS  
IPSS 
IR 
KF  
LDPE  
MAH 
MDD       
MDS 
MS 
Nd 
NLT 
NMR 
PEC  
Ph. Eur.  
Pregion  
RH 
RMP 
SmPC   
SULTs   
UGTs 
ULN 
USP 
UV 
XR(P)D  
WBC 
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
Absolute neutrophil count 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Active substance 
Active Substance Master File 
Area under the curve 
Blood urea nitrogen 
Chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia 
Cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 
Maximum daily dose consumed per patient 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Fraction of market penetration 
Gas chromatography 
Glutathione transferases 
High performance liquid chromatography 
Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
International conference on harmonisation 
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry 
International Prognostic scoring system 
Infra-red 
Karl Fischer titration 
Low-density polyethylene 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Maximum daily dose 
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Mass spectroscopy 
Number of days per year 
Not less than 
Nuclear magnetic resonance 
Predicted environmental concentration 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Highest regional prevalence 
Relative Humidity 
Reference Medicinal product 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Sulfotransferases 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 
Upper limit of normal 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray (Powder) Diffraction 
White blood cells 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 3/18 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Mylan Ireland Limited submitted on 8 March 2019 an application for marketing authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Azacitidine Mylan, through the centralised procedure under Article 
3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 January 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication. 
Azacitidine Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation (HSCT) with: 
• 
• 
• 
intermediate-2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International Prognostic 
Scoring System (IPSS), 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation (WHO) classification, 
•  AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and literature 
references instead of non-clinical and clinical data unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Vidaza, 25 mg/mL, powder for suspension for injection 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 17-December-2008   
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/488/001 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 4/18 
  
  
 
 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Vidaza, 25 mg/mL, powder for suspension for injection  
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 17-December-2008   
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/488/001 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The  Applicant  has  received  scientific  advice 
from  the  CHMP  prior  to  start  of  the  procedure 
(EMEA/H/SA/3878/1/2018/II).  Advice  was  sought  on  the  demonstration  of  bioequivalence  between  the  test 
and reference products by comparison of particle size distribution and other physicochemical characteristics, 
as well as dissolution of the drug product. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Kolbeinn Gudmundsson  
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
8 March 2019 
28 March 2019 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
13 June 2019 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
25 June 2019 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
25 July 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 5/18 
  
  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
10 October 2019 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
18 November 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
28 November 2019 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding to be sent to the applicant on 
12 December 2019 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
06 January 2020 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
14 January 2020 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant during an oral 
N/A 
explanation before the CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
30 January 2020 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Azacitidine Mylan on  
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Revlimid, Vyxeos, Dacogen, 
30 January 2020 
Rydapt, Mylotarg and Xospata 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a rare and life-threatening disease that can affect children and adults, 
although the highest prevalence occurs in those over 60 years of age. The incidence of MDS has been 
estimated as 4.1/100,000 population. The incidence rises with increasing age: 4.9 for people aged 50 to 70 
years and 22.8 for people older than 70 years. 
The clinical presentation of MDS is generally non-specific. However, initial findings of MDS can usually be 
attributed to the underlying cytopenias. MDS can arise de novo (primary MDS) or following treatment with 
chemotherapy, radiation therapy or chemical injury (secondary MDS). Depending on the subtype of 
myelodysplasia, there is a risk of approximately 50% for development of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), 
which is often refractory to standard treatment. 
Despite current treatment strategies, approximately half of the patient population with MDS dies within 4 
years. Cure may be achieved only in patients who can receive allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (allo HSCT). However, depending on a patient’s age and general health condition, best 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 6/18 
  
  
 
 
 
supportive care (BSC), consisting in transfusions, growth factors, iron chelation therapy, is most frequently 
applied. 
AML evolving from MDS is often less responsive to standard treatment than de novo AML. The usually higher 
age at diagnosis makes these patients more vulnerable to toxic effects from induction and consolidation 
chemotherapy (with e.g., cytarabine, etoposide and idarubicin) and the HSCT.  
Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is an aggressive, clonal myeloid neoplasm with maturation arrest of 
myelopoiesis, leading to an accumulation of myoblasts in bone marrow (BM) and/or blood. AML is the most 
frequent form of leukaemia, accounting for approximately 25% of all leukaemias in adults in the Western 
world. Worldwide, the incidence of AML is the highest in the United States (US), Australia and Western 
Europe. The overall annual crude incidence of AML is 3.7 per 100, 0000 people. More than half of the 
subjects with newly diagnosed AML in developed countries are over 65 years of age, with a median age at 
diagnosis of 67.  
AML can arise de novo, through transformation of existing myelodysplasia, or be secondary to previous 
therapy (e.g. cytotoxic chemotherapy). AML is a heterogeneous disease in terms of response to treatment 
and overall survival (OS). Prognostic factors that contribute to this heterogeneity can be both patient- and 
disease-related. Patient-related prognostic factors include age, performance score and comorbidities. 
Disease-related prognostic factors include high leukocyte count, existence of prior MDS or myelodysplasia-
related changes, previous cytotoxic therapy, and cytogenetic and molecular/genetic changes in the leukaemic 
cells at diagnosis. Overall, the 5-year survival rate for AML is 19%, whereas for elderly only 5% of the 
patients achieve a 5-year survival. 
About the product 
Azacitidine belongs to the group of ‘anti-metabolites’. Azacitidine is an analogue of cytidine, which means 
that it is incorporated into the genetic material of cells (RNA and DNA). It is thought to work by altering the 
way the cell turns genes on and off and also by interfering with the production of new RNA and DNA. These 
actions are thought to correct the problems with the maturation and growth of young blood cells in the bone 
marrow that cause myelodysplastic disorders, and to kill cancerous cells in leukaemia. 
This Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) is based on ‘essential similarity’ to the original product in 
accordance with article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. The medicinal product is a generic of the reference 
medicinal product, which has been authorized within the community, in accordance with community 
provisions in force, for not less than eight years in a member state or in the community. The reference 
product is Vidaza powder for suspension for injection manufactured/marketed by Celgene Europe BV, 
Netherland. The indications sought for Azacitidine Mylan are the same as those for Vidaza powder for 
suspension for injection:  
For the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
with: 
- Intermediate-2 and High-risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) according to the International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
- Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (10%-29% marrow blasts without Myeloproliferative Disorder), 
- Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation Classification (WHO), 
- AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 7/18 
  
  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as powder for suspension for injection containing 100 mg per vial of 
azacitidine as active substance, to be reconstituted in 4 mL of solvent (25 mg/mL).  
The only other ingredient is mannitol (E421). 
The product is available in colourless type I glass vial sealed with butyl rubber stopper and aluminium seal 
with plastic button as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of azacitidine is 4-amino-1-β-D-ribofuranosyl-1,3,5-triazin-2(1H)-one, corresponding to 
the molecular formula C8H12N4O5. It has a relative molecular mass of 244.20 g/mol and the following 
structure (Figure 1): 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of azacitidine was elucidated by a combination of 1H and 13C NMR, MS, IR, UV and 
elemental analysis. The obtained spectra are in agreement with the assigned structure. The solid state 
properties of the active substance were measured by P-XRD and DSC.  
Azacitidine is a white to off white crystalline powder, sparingly soluble in water, it is non-hygroscopic.    
Azacitidine exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of four chiral centres, but it is synthesized as a 
single enantiomer. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by specific optical rotation as shown in the 
active substance specifications.  
Based on the literature survey, azacitidine active substance exhibits polymorphism. It was adequately 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process consistently results in the same polymorphic form, as shown 
by P-XRD analysis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 8/18 
  
  
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of 
the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory.  
Azacitidine is manufactured by non-sterile and non-aseptic process by a single manufacturer. The active 
substance is synthesized in three main steps, using commercially available, well-defined starting materials. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The impurity profile of each intermediate has 
been thoroughly investigated and specified impurities identified. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents were set in line with the impurity profiles updated 
during the evaluation procedure, and found acceptable. The specification limits for specified, unspecified and 
total impurities, as well as purity and assay of the proposed starting materials have been adequately set.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their 
origin and characterised. 
Detailed information on the reprocessing procedures has been provided. 
Azacitidine  is  packaged  in  transparent  LDPE  bags  which  comply  with  the  EC  directive  2002/72/EC  and  EC 
10/2011 as amended, as well as with Ph.Eur. 3.1.3.   
In the context of the on-going review under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 related to the 
potential presence of nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/referral/nitrosamines-emea-h-a53-1490-information-
nitrosamines-marketing-authorisation-holders_en.pdf, 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/referral/nitrosamines-emea-h-a53-1490-questions-answers-
information-nitrosamines-marketing-authorisation_en.pdf), during the evaluation procedure the Applicant has 
been asked to review the azacitidine product for potential presence of nitrosamine impurities and to conduct 
risk evaluation/risk assessment as appropriate. On the basis of the results of  the risk assessment performed 
both on the active substance and the finished product, the risk for formation of nitrosamines in the API 
manufacturing process, in the API itself, as well as in the finished product, is concluded to be negligible, 
therefore no action is required.  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for  appearance/description, identity (IR, HPLC and X-PRD), 
solubility (Ph.Eur.), specific optical rotation (Ph.Eur.), residual solvents (GC), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur.), assay 
(HPLC), impurities (HPLC), water content (KF), bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur.),  microbial content (Ph.Eur.). 
The maximum daily dose (MDD) for azacitidine is 200 mg/day (100 mg/m2). Therefore, the ICH 
recommended thresholds for reporting, identification and qualification are 0.05%, 0.10% and 0.15%, 
respectively. The proposed limits for the specified impurities are acceptable from a safety point of view. No 
Class 1 solvents are employed throughout the synthetic process.The analytical methods used have been 
adequately described and (non-compendial methods) appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH 
guidelines and the draft USP monograph for the active substance. Forced degradation studies demonstrated 
that the methods for control of related substances and assay are stability indicating. Satisfactory information 
regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on three batches at commercial scale of the active substance are provided. The results 
are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 9/18 
  
  
The Applicant demonstrated that the active substance can be manufactured consistently within tight quality 
margins. 
Stability 
Stability data from three batches at the initial batch size of active substance from the proposed manufacturer 
stored in the intended commercial packaging and container closure system representative of that intended 
for the market, for up to 60 months under long term conditions (5°C±3°C) and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions (25°C±2°C / 60%±5% RH), according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The 
temperature conditions chosen by the Applicant are in line with those authorized for the innovator Vidaza. 
This is considered acceptable. In addition, stability data for three batches at commercial size, for up to 24 
months at long term conditions, and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions were provided.   
Photostability was investigated during forced degradation studies, on one batch of active substance. The 
active substance did not show signs of degradation after exposure to light without the protection of the 
primary packaging material. Hence, the active substance was not considered to be photosensitive. Stress 
conditions were as follows: acid, alkali, oxidation, thermal stress, UV and fluorescent light, humidity.  
The stability indicating parameters tested were: description, identification (IR and XRD), water content (KF), 
related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC) and microbial quality (microbial count and BET).  On the batches at 
commercial scale, optical rotation and related substances (Method II) tests were also conducted. The analytical 
methods used were the same as for release.   
The active substance was generally stable at accelerated and long-term conditions. All tested parameters were 
within the specifications  
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is sufficiently 
stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 42 months at the proposed storage 
conditions in the proposed container. 
With respect to all ongoing stability studies, any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative 
trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Azacitidine, powder for suspension for injection, 25 mg/mL (100 mg/vial) is a white lyophilized powder or 
cake filled in a clear glass vial. The product is reconstituted with 4 mL of water for injections as mentioned in 
SmPC. After reconstitution each mL of suspension will contain 25 mg of azacitidine and 25 mg of mannitol. 
The finished product azacitidine powder for suspension for injection (100 mg/vial) was developed to be identical 
to reference product Vidaza, currently marketed in Europe. The finished product manufacturer has performed 
a panel of comparative studies to demonstrate that the finished product is comparable to the reference product. 
The following quality attributes were investigated: (on neat finished product) description, water content, assay 
and related substances; (on reconstituted finished product) osmolality, pH, viscosity, particle morphology and 
particle size distribution.  No differences in the physiochemical profiles of the test and reference products are 
claimed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 10/18 
  
  
A comparison of the in vitro release of the active substance between the test and the reference product was 
conducted. The dissolution experiments were conducted in the flow-through cell with phosphate buffer pH 7.2 
as dissolution medium. Quantification was conducted by HPLC. All batches of the test and reference products 
show complete dissolution within the first 10 minutes. All batches of the test and reference products show a 
difference of less than 10% of the mean release at all tested time-points.  
The finished product is a suspension for subcutaneous injection, for which the Guideline on the investigation of 
bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **) does not provide guidance.  Moreover, due to the 
high  solubility  of  the  active  substance  azacitidine  in  water  at  37  ºC  (i.e.  at  biorelevant  conditions),  it  is 
recognized that developing a discriminatory dissolution method for the proposed product is very difficult. During 
the  evaluation  procedure,  CHMP  agreed  that  a  biowaiver  for  BE  studies  for  azacitidine  generics  can  be 
acceptable, provided that some criteria are satisfied.  Therefore, the biowaiver for the BE studies is considered 
to be supported.The excipient mannitol is a well-known pharmaceutical ingredient and its quality is compliant 
with Ph. Eur. standards. It is the same as that in the reference product. All other excipients are commonly used 
in medicinal products and comply with pharmacopoeial standards, except for acetonitrile which is controlled 
according to adequate in-house specification.   
The finished product is filled in a clear 30 mL Type I glass vial. The vials are closed with 20 mm grey chlorobutyl 
flurotec  coated  single  slot  rubber  stoppers  and  aluminium  seals  with  flip-off  seals.  The  packaging  materials 
complies with Ph.Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has been validated by 
stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The finished product is manufactured by a single manufacturer. The process consists of a simple preparation 
of a bulk solution, followed by sterile filtration, filling and subsequent lyophilisation; it is considered a non-
standard process.  
A summary of the in-process information during manufacture was provided to confirm that the proposed 
Azacitidine powder for suspension for injection can be manufactured according to the proposals in the 
dossier. All process parameters as discussed in the pharmaceutical development section and verified during 
process validation were found to be within acceptable ranges and according to acceptance criteria. The 
description also included additional details related to the filters, and maximum acceptable holding times and 
holding temperatures of the bulk solution before filtration were clearly stated. Results from media fill runs 
demonstrated that the aseptic filling process gives a sterile product with high assurance.  
Process validation was carried out on several batches at commercial scale. Major steps of the manufacturing 
process (sterilisation, filtration, lyophilisation and aseptic process steps) have been validated by a number of 
studies. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished 
product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of 
manufacturing process.  
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: description, 
identification (UV and HPLC), water content (Ph.Eur), uniformity of dosage units (weight variation) (Ph.Eur), 
particulate contamination (Ph.Eur), foreign particles, BET (Ph.Eur), sterility (Ph.Eur), assay (HPLC), related 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 11/18 
  
  
substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), appearance of suspension, pH (Ph.Eur), syringeability, osmolality 
(Ph.Eur), reconstitution time, particle size distribution (Laser diffraction), particle morphology (Ph.Eur). 
The maximum daily dose (MDD) for Azacitidine Mylan is 200 mg. Therefore, the ICH recommended thresholds 
for reporting, identification and qualification in the finished product are 0.1%, 0.2% and 0.2%, respectively. 
The  proposed  limits  for  specified  and  unspecified  impurities  are  in  line  with  ICHQ3B  and  hence  acceptable. 
Crystal  morphology  and  PSD  are  the  key  parameters  and  are  tested  routinely  to  assure  that  each  batch  is 
similar to the originator.  
Analytical methods were adequately described and validated. The limits of quantitation for the specified and 
unspecified  impurities  by  the  uHPLC  method  for  related  substances  were  established  below  the  ICH  Q3B 
identification threshold of 0.1%. This is acceptable. Forced degradation studies were performed in connection 
with  the  HPLC  methods  for  assay  and  related  substances  (methods I,  II  and III).  The highest  degradations 
occurred under acidic and alkali conditions. Peak purity was investigated and mass balance was demonstrated. 
All methods are considered as stability indicating. 
Batch analysis results from batches of each proposed batch size were presented. The tested batches 
correspond to the batches used for process validation. The batch analysis results originate from recent 
batches manufactured between January 2014 and June 2018, in line with all proposed batch sizes. All results 
comply with the proposed specifications. Overall, the results confirm the consistency of the manufacturing 
process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
The  potential  presence  of  elemental  impurities  in  the  finished  product  has  been  assessed  on  a  risk-based 
approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. Based on the risk assessment it can be 
concluded  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  include  any  elemental  impurity  controls  in  the  finished  product 
specification. The information on the control of elemental impurities is satisfactory. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data for all proposed batch sizes for up to 36 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) 
and for up six months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were 
provided for the 100 mg/vial powder for suspension.  
The process validation batches were included in the stability study. All selected batches were packed in the 
primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for description, identification, water content, foreign particles, particulate matter, BET, 
sterility, assay, related substances (HPLC methods I, II and III), appearance of suspension, pH, 
syringeability, osmolality, reconstitution time, PSD, and particle morphology. The analytical procedures used 
are stability indicating. The finished product is generally stable in the proposed container packaging system. 
.Overall, the observed physical and chemical changes were small, and not likely to have a significant effect 
on efficacy and safety of the product when used according to the directions in the SmPC. Compatibility data 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 12/18 
  
  
provided for a reconstituted batch near the end of shelf life supported the in-use shelf life of the reconstituted 
product. 
With  respect  to  all  ongoing  stability  studies,  in  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines1,  any  confirmed  out-of-
specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA. 
A photostability study has been performed on one batch of neat Azacitidine finished product in vials, as well 
as on vials wrapped and protected by Al-foil. The conditions of the study were selected according to ICH Q1B. 
The finished product did not show signs of degradation after exposure to light without the protection of the 
primary and/or secondary packaging materials. The finished product was hence not considered to be 
photosensitive.   
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months and storage conditions as stated in the 
SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
16.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the components used in the manufacture of Azacitidine Mylan are of human or animal origin. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The product has been developed as a generic of Vidaza. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. A major objection was raised during the evaluation of the procedure, 
regarding the in vitro comparative studies required to support the biowaiver of the bioequivalence studies. 
The requirements set up by CHMP were satisfactorily addressed. The results of tests carried out indicate 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 13/18 
  
  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Azacitidine Mylan manufactured by Mylan Ireland Limited is considered unlikely to result in 
any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all azacitidine containing products and the 
exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and 
toxicology data. Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
The impurity profile of applicant’s azacitidine is comparable to that of Vidaza. Thus, additional toxicology 
studies to qualify the impurity profile of the drug product are not required. 
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the applicant has justified the absence of non-clinical studies based on the 
literature review and the claim that Azacitidine Mylan is a generic of the reference product Vidaza. The 
literature data presented in the dossier is considered acceptable and sufficient for the assessment of non-
clinical aspects of Azacitidine Mylan in the applied indications. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for Azacitidine Mylan 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection containing 
azacitidine.  
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption  
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application. The CHMP considered that a biowaiver for 
a generic azacitidine powder for suspension for injection product is acceptable considering that the test and 
reference product have the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance and the same 
qualitative and very similar quantitative composition in excipients, that the provided in vitro data 
demonstrate high aqueous solubility of azacitidine, rapid and similar dissolution rate between the test and 
reference products and that the reconstitution instructions for the products by healthcare professionals prior 
to administration, which requires vigorous shaking, are common between test and reference product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 14/18 
  
  
2.4.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The clinical overview on the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety has been provided and is adequate.  
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application which is in line with the CHMP WPs view 
that a biowaiver for BE studies for azacitidine generics is acceptable.  
Azacitidine Mylan is considered essentially similar to Vidaza, Celgene Europe B.V. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Azacitidine Mylan was provided and was accepted 
by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guidelines, WPs positions and additional clinical studies 
were not considered necessary. Azacitidine Mylan is considered essentially similar to Vidaza, Celgene Europe 
B.V. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Table SVIII.1: Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Haemorrhagic events (Bleeding related problems) 
• 
Infections 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures only. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.1 is acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 15/18 
  
  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the basis of 
a bridging report. The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of azacitidine 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection. The 
reference product Vidaza is indicated for: 
the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with: 
- 
intermediate-2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
- 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, 
- 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation (WHO) classification, 
- 
AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 16/18 
  
  
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Azacitidine Mylan is favourable in the following indication: 
For the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
with: 
- 
intermediate-2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
- 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, 
- 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation (WHO) classification, 
- 
AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 17/18 
  
  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.   
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/36881/2020 
Page 18/18 
  
  
