Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Azacitidine  Accord 
25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection (Azacitidine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder 
for suspension for injection. The RMP details important risks of Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL 
powder  for  suspension  for  injection,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Azacitidine  Accord  25  mg/mL  powder  for  suspension  for 
injection’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Azacitidine  Accord  25  mg/mL  powder  for  suspension  for  injection’s  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals  and  patients  on  how  Azacitidine  Accord  25  mg/mL  powder  for  suspension  for 
injection should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection 
should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment 
Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Azacitidine 
Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Azacitidine  Accord  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  who  are  not  eligible  for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with: 

Intermediate-2  and  high-risk  myelodysplastic  syndromes  (MDS)  according  to  the
International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS),
 Chronic  myelomonocytic  leukaemia  (CMML)  with  10-29  %  marrow  blasts  without
myeloproliferative disorder,
 Acute  myeloid  leukaemia  (AML)  with  20-30  %  blasts  and  multi-lineage  dysplasia,
according to World Health Organisation (WHO) classification,
 AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification.
It contains azacitidine as the active substance and it is given subcutaneously. 
Further information about the evaluation of Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension 
for injection’s benefits can be found in Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for 
injection’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage.
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/azacitidine-accord
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
II.
characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Azacitidine  Accord  25  mg/mL  powder  for  suspension  for  injection  together 
with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about 
Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken 
as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Azacitidine  Accord  25  mg/mL  powder  for  suspension  for  injection  are  risks 
that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the 
medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of 
Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for  injection. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Important identified risks 
 Haemorrhagic events

Infections
Important potential risks 
 None
Missing information 
 None
II.B  Summary of important risks
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Azacitidine Accord 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Azacitidine  Accord  25  mg/mL  powder  for  suspension  for 
injection. 
