30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Azacitidine betapharm  
International non-proprietary name: azacitidine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005075/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Azacitidine betapharm 
Applicant: 
betapharm Arzneimittel GmbH 
Kobelweg 95 
86156 Augsburg 
GERMANY 
Active substance: 
AZACITIDINE 
International non-proprietary 
name/Common name: 
azacitidine 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
antimetabolites, pyrimidine analogues 
(ATC Code): 
(L01BC07) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Azacitidine betapharm is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients who are not 
eligible for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) with: 
• 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according 
intermediate-2 and high-risk 
to the International Prognostic Scoring 
System (IPSS), 
• 
(CMML) with 10% to 29% marrow blasts 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia 
without myeloproliferative disorder, 
• 
20% to 30% blasts and multi-lineage 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 
dysplasia, according to World Health 
Organization (WHO) classification, 
• 
according to the WHO classification. 
AML with > 30% marrow blasts 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Powder for suspension for injection 
Strength(s): 
25 mg/ml 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 2/20 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Route(s) of administration: 
Subcutaneous use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) 
Package size(s): 
1 vial 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 3/20 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 15 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 15 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 16 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 16 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 16 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 16 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 16 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 16 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 17 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 17 
2.4.2. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 17 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 17 
2.4.4. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 17 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 18 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 18 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 18 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 18 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 19 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 4/20 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
AML 
ANC 
AUC 
BUN 
CMML   
CYPs 
DOSEai    
Fpen 
GSTs 
HSCT 
IPSS 
MDS 
Nd 
PEC  
Pregion  
RMP 
SULTs   
UGTs 
ULN 
WBC 
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
Absolute neutrophil count 
Area under the curve 
Blood urea nitrogen 
Chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia 
Cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 
Maximum daily dose consumed per patient 
Fraction of market penetration 
Glutathione transferases 
Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
International Prognostic scoring system 
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Number of days per year 
Predicted environmental concentration 
Highest regional prevalence 
Reference Medicinal product 
Sulfotransferases 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 
Upper limit of normal 
White blood cells 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 5/20 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant betapharm Arzneimittel GmbH submitted on 9 January 2019 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Azacitidine betapharm, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 31 May 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Azacitidine betapharm is indicated for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with: 
• intermediate-2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International Prognostic 
Scoring System (IPSS), 
• chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, 
• acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World Health 
Organisation (WHO) classification, 
• AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and literature 
references instead of non-clinical and clinical data unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Vidaza, 25 mg/mL, powder for suspension for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 17-December-2008  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/488/001 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Vidaza, 25 mg/mL, powder for suspension for injection  
Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 17-December-2008  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/488/001 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 6/20 
  
  
 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Ondřej Slanař 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
9 January 2019 
30 January 2019 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
23 April 2019 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
2 May 2019 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
29 May 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
14 August 2019 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
24 September 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
3 October 2019 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in an 
17 October 2019 
oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
7 November 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
27 November 2019 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP agreed on a 2nd list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in 
4 December 2019 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 7/20 
  
  
 
an oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP 2nd List of 
3 January 2020 
Outstanding Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
15 January 2020 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
30 January 2020 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Azacitidine betapharm on  
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Azacitidine betapharm with 
30 January 2020 
Revlimid, Dacogen, Ceplene, Rydapt, Mylotarg and Xospata  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Myelodysplastic  syndrome  (MDS)  is  a  rare  and  life-threatening  disease  that  can  affect  children  and  adults, 
although the highest prevalence occurs in those over 60 years of age. The incidence of MDS has been estimated 
as 4.1/100,000 population. The incidence rises with increasing age: 4.9 for people aged 50 to 70 years and 
22.8 for people older than 70 years. 
The  clinical  presentation  of  MDS  is  generally  non-specific.  However,  initial  findings  of  MDS  can  usually  be 
attributed  to  the  underlying  cytopenias.  MDS  can  arise  de  novo  (primary  MDS)  or  following  treatment  with 
chemotherapy,  radiation  therapy  or  chemical  injury  (secondary  MDS).  Depending  on  the  subtype  of 
myelodysplasia, there is a risk of approximately 50% for development of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), which 
is often refractory to standard treatment. 
Despite current treatment strategies, approximately half of the patient population with MDS dies within 4 years. 
Cure  may  be  achieved  only  in  patients  who  can  receive  allogeneic  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation 
(allo HSCT). However, depending on a patient’s age and general health condition, best supportive care (BSC), 
consisting in transfusions, growth factors, iron chelation therapy, is most frequently applied. 
AML evolving from MDS is often less responsive to standard treatment than de novo AML. The usually higher 
age  at  diagnosis  makes  these  patients  more  vulnerable  to  toxic  effects  from  induction  and  consolidation 
chemotherapy (with e.g., cytarabine, etoposide and idarubicin) and the HSCT.  
Acute  myeloid  leukaemia  (AML)  is  an  aggressive,  clonal  myeloid  neoplasm  with  maturation  arrest  of 
myelopoiesis, leading to an accumulation of myoblasts in bone marrow (BM) and/or blood. AML is the most 
frequent form of leukaemia, accounting for approximately 25% of all leukaemias in adults in the Western world. 
Worldwide, the incidence of AML is the highest in the United States (US), Australia and Western Europe. The 
overall annual crude incidence of AML is 3.7 per 100, 0000 people. More than half of the subjects with newly 
diagnosed AML in developed countries are over 65 years of age, with a median age at diagnosis of 67.  
AML can arise de novo, through transformation of existing myelodysplasia, or be secondary to previous therapy 
(e.g. cytotoxic chemotherapy). AML is a heterogeneous disease in terms of response to treatment and overall 
survival (OS). Prognostic factors that contribute to this heterogeneity can be both patient- and disease-related. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 8/20 
  
  
 
Patient-related prognostic factors include age, performance score and comorbidities. Disease-related prognostic 
factors  include  high  leukocyte  count,  existence  of  prior  MDS  or  myelodysplasia-related  changes,  previous 
cytotoxic therapy, and cytogenetic and molecular/genetic changes in the leukaemic cells at diagnosis. Overall, 
the 5-year survival rate for AML is 19%, whereas for elderly only 5% of the patients achieve a 5-year survival.  
About the product 
Azacitidine belongs to the group of ‘anti-metabolites’. Azacitidine is an analogue of cytidine, which means 
that it is incorporated into the genetic material of cells (RNA and DNA). It is thought to work by altering the 
way the cell turns genes on and off and also by interfering with the production of new RNA and DNA. These 
actions are thought to correct the problems with the maturation and growth of young blood cells in the bone 
marrow that cause myelodysplastic disorders, and to kill cancerous cells in leukaemia. 
This Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) is based on ‘essential similarity’ to the original product in 
accordance with article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. The medicinal product is a generic of the reference 
medicinal product, which has been authorized within the community, in accordance with community 
provisions in force, for not less than eight years in a member state or in the community. The reference 
product is Vidaza powder for suspension for injection manufactured/marketed by Celgene Europe BV, 
Netherland. The indications sought for Azacitidine betapharm are the same as those for Vidaza powder for 
suspension for injection:  
For the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
with: 
- Intermediate-2 and High-risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) according to the International Prognostic 
Scoring System (IPSS), 
 - Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (10%-29% marrow blasts without Myeloproliferative Disorder), 
 - Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World Health 
Organisation Classification (WHO), 
 - AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder for suspension for injection containing 100 mg per vial of 
azacitidine as active substance, to be reconstituted in 4 mL of solvent (25 mg/mL). 
The only other ingredient is mannitol (E 421). 
The product is available in glass vials (type I) sealed with bromobutyl rubber stopper and flip-off-seal as 
described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 9/20 
  
  
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of azacitidine is 4-amino-1-[(2R,3R,4S,5R)-3,4-dihydroxy-5-(hydroxymethyl)oxolan-2-
yl]-1,3,5-triazin-2-one corresponding to the molecular formula C8H12N4O5. It has a molecular weight of 
244.207 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of thermal analysis 
(differential scanning calorimetry), UV spectrophotometry, specific optical rotation, FT-IR spectroscopy, NMR 
spectroscopy, and high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS). The solid state properties of the active 
substance were measured by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD). 
The active substance is a white to off-white non-hygroscopic powder, soluble in dimethyl sulphoxide, 
sparingly soluble in water and insoluble in acetone and ethanol. 
Azacitidine exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of four chiral centres. Enantiomeric purity is 
controlled routinely by specific optical rotation in the active substance specifications. 
Azacitidine exhibits polymorphism. Based on XRPD studies conducted, it is concluded that the manufacturing 
process consistently produces Form I of azacitidine. 
Nonetheless, since the active substance is dissolved during the compounding step of the manufacturing 
process of the finished product, the potential presence of polymorphic forms is not considered relevant for 
the performance of the product. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of 
the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Azacitidine is sourced from a single manufacturer and it is synthesized in a two-stage synthesis with four 
chemical transformation steps and one isolated intermediate using well defined starting materials with 
acceptable specifications. The CHMP raised concerns during the procedure regarding the justification of 
selection of one of the starting materials, however the updated discussion regarding controls and carry-over 
of potential impurities supported the initially proposed starting material. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 10/20 
  
  
 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Azacitidine is packed under nitrogen atmosphere. The active substance is packaged in polyethylene bag, tied 
with strip. This bag is placed inside a continuous liner bag along with silica gel packet and tied both sides with 
strip. This bag is kept in a triple laminated bag along with silica gel pouch in between triple laminated bag and 
continuous liner and sealed with sealer. This sealed triple laminated bag is kept in HDPE container with a HDPE 
lid and this outer container is also sealed with tamper evident seal. The polyethylene bags in contact with the 
active substance comply with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for: appearance, identity (IR, HPLC, XRD), solubility (in-
house), loss on drying (in-house), sulphate ash (Ph. Eur.), specific optical rotation (in-house), related 
substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), bacterial endotoxin (in-house) and microbial test 
(Ph. Eur.). 
The manufacturing process of starting materials and final active substance, azacitidine have been evaluated 
for potential sources of elemental impurities and it is observed that no Class-1, Class-2A, Class-2B and Class-
3 elemental impurities were intentionally added during the complete manufacturing process. 
Azacitidine is sensitive to moisture and several compounds are possible degradants. During the procedure, 
additional information on the control strategy of the impurities were requested by CHMP which was amended 
and is considered acceptable. 
From the specificity studies, in acid hydrolysis, base hydrolysis, oxidation and in water stress conditions, two 
major unknown impurities were identified by LCMS/MS.  
The existing related substances by HPLC method is capable of detecting relevant impurities in azacitidine. 
Further 48 months long term stability study data was examined and no significant increase in known and 
unknown impurities was observed. This information was sufficient to resolve the raised concerns. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on three consecutive production scale batches of the active substance are provided. The 
results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from 9 production scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer stored in 
the intended commercial package for up to 48 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and 
from 3 commercial scale batches for up to 12 months under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 65% RH) and 
from 3 commercial scale batches for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) 
according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 11/20 
  
  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, loss on drying, related substances and 
assay. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch. Results on stress 
conditions: heat/thermal, photolytic exposure, humidity/moisture/ acidic solution/ basic solution, oxidation 
and metallic ions were also provided on one batch. Based on the provided photostability study it can be 
concluded that azacitidine is photostable. Results of stress degradation study show that the active substance 
is stable for heat, humidity and photolytic conditions. The active substance is highly sensitive to acid, base, 
water hydrolysis, oxidation and metal ion degradation. 
Any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur 
and EMA. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed suppliers is sufficiently 
stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 24 months when stored in the proposed 
container at a temperature below 25°C (excursions permitted between 15 and 30°C). 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Azacitidine 25 mg/mL Powder for Suspension for Injection is a sterile lyophilized powder packed in 30 mL/20 
mm tubular type-I glass vials, stoppered with 20 mm rubber stoppers and sealed with 20 mm flip-off seals.  
Mannitol, used as a bulking agent for the lyophilization process, is the only excipient in the formulation. There 
is no overage used in the formulation and there are no accompanying reconstitution diluents provided with 
the finished product. 
The target of the formulation development was to develop product pharmaceutically equivalent to the 
reference product Vidaza 25 mg/mL Powder for Suspension for Injection. After analysis of reference product, 
the applicant presented the Quality Target Product Profile (QTPP) for the generic product. Based on the QTPP, 
critical quality attributes (CQA) were identified. The selected excipient, solvent and process aid are the same 
as in the reference product and in the same amount.  All of them are of Ph. Eur. quality. 
The formulation development is concise, since the finished product is relatively simple, containing only the 
active substance and one excipient, same as in reference product. All excipients are well known 
pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur standards. There are no novel 
excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the 
SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
Physicochemical and biological properties have been discussed. The pharmaceutical equivalency has been 
shown comparing product characteristics such as dosage form, strength, reconstitution solutions, storage etc. 
and the results of the specification parameters testing.  
The morphology of reconstituted suspension, Particle Size Distribution (PSD) of the API, solubility, XRD 
pattern and in vitro dissolution profile has been evaluated for Dr. Reddy’s product and reference medicinal 
product. pH, osmolality and viscosity were also evaluated. The substance is quickly solubilized even after 
adding a small amount of diluent. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 12/20 
  
  
The finished product is a suspension for subcutaneous injection, for which the Guideline on the investigation 
of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **) requires bioequivalence studies versus the 
reference product, unless a biowaiver is applicable as per Appendix III. While Appendix III is not applicable, 
during the evaluation procedure the CHMP agreed that a biowaiver for BE studies specifically for azacitidine 
powder for suspension for injection generic products could be justified based on in vitro data provided that 
the test and reference product have the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance 
and the same qualitative and very similar quantitative composition in excipients. Considering the specific 
nature of the product and how it is used in practice, the parameters that are considered most relevant for the 
performance of the product are the PSD and the crystal morphology of the active substance immediately 
prior to use. In order to support therapeutic equivalence based on in vitro data, when reconstituted in 
accordance with the recommended instructions, these parameters should be similar to the reference product 
and should be part of the finished product specification. In addition the biowaiver request should be 
supported with results comparing osmolality, pH and viscosity, and with results from a suitably designed test 
for the reconstituted product measuring and comparing “time/temperature to clear solution” after 
reconstitution between test and reference products. An MO was consequently raised in relation to the above. 
Comparative results between test and reference product have been provided and specifications for PSD and 
for particle morphology were included in the finished product to assure that the performance of each batch is 
similar to the originator, on the basis of the in vitro comparability studies performed. The equivalence of the 
test product to the reference product has been proved based on the physical and chemical parameters. The 
biowaiver was therefore accepted. Moreover, due to the high solubility of the active substance azacitidine in 
water at 37 ºC (i.e. at biorelevant conditions), it is recognized that developing a discriminatory dissolution 
method for the proposed product is very difficult. 
Detailed manufacturing process development has been described. The critical process parameters and their 
impact on product performance were identified. The possibility of risk mitigation for these steps has been 
described and satisfactory controls were set, based on this analysis. 
The process time and temperature were identified as critical parameters in the bulk solution manufacturing, 
as they directly affect assay and purity of the final product. The holding time of filled vials is critical and 
should be minimized.  
The selection of sterilization method has been discussed and data after exposure 121 °C for 30 minutes 
were presented. The selected method is aseptic processing and filtration followed by lyophilization. The 
lyophilization cycle has been developed.  
The chosen container closure system (Type I glass vials) is widely used for this pharmaceutical form. The 
material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has been 
validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
The compatibility studies confirm, that the product quality is not affected by contact with filter membranes, 
silicon gasket, rubber stopper, containers and tubing. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of eleven main steps: dispensing of raw materials, preparation of primary 
packaging,  sterilisation,  compounding  of  bulk  solution,  first  filtration,  second  filtration  +  filling  and  partial 
stoppering, lyophilisation, sealing and external decontamination, visual inspection of sealed decontaminated 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 13/20 
  
  
vials,  coding  of  sealed  vials  and  labelling/packing.  The  process  is  considered  to  be  a  non  standard 
manufacturing process. 
The in-process control tests have been described and are deemed satisfactory. Major steps of the manufacturing 
process  have  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies.  Three  process  validation  reports  are  provided  –  one 
report including three batches of each proposed batch size. The filter validation includes all generally required 
studies – bacterial retention study, filter compatibility study and extractable study. 
The media fill summary has been provided. The results of the container closure integrity have been provided. 
It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the  finished  product  of 
intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing 
process and pharmaceutical form. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance, 
identification  (UV,  HPLC),  reconstitution  time  (in-house),  color  of  the  solution  (in-house),  particulate 
contamination (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), assay (in-house), related substances (HPLC), 
water content (KF), sterility (Ph. Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), particle size distribution of reconstituted 
suspension (laser diffraction), solubility (in-house), pH (in-house), osmolality (in-house), viscosity (in-house) 
and crystal morphology (in-house). 
Most of the tests relevant for the pharmaceutical form powder for suspension for injection and subcutaneous 
administration are included in the specification. A test for dissolution is omitted, however, during the 
development studies it has been shown, that the product is rapidly dissolved. The particle size distribution 
and the crystal morphology are the key parameters and are tested routinely to assure that each batch is 
similar to the originator from this point of view. The limits for the individual percentiles of the PSD are 
considered adequate. 
The general tests are considered satisfactorily justified. Impurities were justified by results of lab batches, 
submission batches and reference product. Satisfactory discussion related to the impurity profile has been 
provided confirming, that the presented impurities are the same in refence and generic product. 
A summary of the product risk assessment prepared in accordance to the requirements set forth in ICH Q3D: 
Elemental Impurities has been provided. It has been concluded that there is no risk from container closure 
system and excipient and sufficient controls are proposed for active substance and for impurities sourced 
from equipment. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 14/20 
  
  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 9 commercial scale (3 of each proposed batch size) batches of finished product stored for 
up  to  48  months  under  long  term  conditions  (25  ºC  /  60%  RH)  and  for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated 
conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of medicinal product 
are  identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were  packed  in  the  primary  packaging  proposed  for 
marketing.  
Samples  were  tested  for  appearance,  color  of  solution,  water  content,  assay,  related  substances,  bacterial 
endotoxins, sterility and particulate contamination. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating.  
In addition, one lab scale batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing 
of New Drug Substances and Products. The results showed that the finished product is not photosensitive. 
When Azacitidine betapharm 25 mg/mL Powder for Suspension for Injection is reconstituted using water for 
injections that has not been refrigerated, chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted medicinal 
product has been demonstrated at 25°C for 45 minutes and at 2°C to 8°C for 8 hours. 
The shelf life of the reconstituted medicinal product can be extended by reconstituting with refrigerated (2°C 
to 8°C) water for injections. When Azacitidine 25 mg/mL Powder for Suspension for Injection is reconstituted 
using refrigerated (2 °C to 8 °C) water for injections, the chemical and physical in-use stability of the 
reconstituted medicinal product has been demonstrated at 2 °C to 8 °C for 22 hours. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 36 months with no special storage conditions as 
stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The product has been developed as a generic of Vidaza. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. Major Objections that were raised during the procedure on designation of 
regulatory starting material, discussion regarding active substance impurities and regarding the in vitro 
comparative studies required to support the biowaiver of the bioequivalence studies, by CHMP were 
satisfactorily addressed. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important 
product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 15/20 
  
  
 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress and to 
investigate the risk of presence of nitrosamine in their medicinal products, the CHMP recommends the 
following point for investigation: 
It is recommended that an updated risk evaluation on the potential presence of nitrosamine impurities in 
Azacitidine betapharm active substance and finished product is conducted within six months of the marketing 
authorisation. In the event that a risk of presence of nitrosamines is identified as a result of the risk 
evaluation, confirmatory testing should be carried out using appropriately validated and sensitive methods 
within a year after the marketing authorisation or at an earlier time if otherwise justified. If nitrosamine 
impurities are found to be present, appropriate risk mitigation steps should be implemented. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Azacitidine betapharm manufactured by betapharm Arzneimittel GmbH is considered unlikely 
to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all azacitidine containing products and 
the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and 
toxicology data. Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the applicant has justified the absence of non-clinical studies based on the 
literature review and the claim that Azacitidine betapharm is a generic of the reference product Vidaza. The 
literature data presented in the dossier is considered acceptable and sufficient for the assessment of non-
clinical aspects of Azacitidine betapharm in the applied indications. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 16/20 
  
  
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for Azacitidine betapharm 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection containing 
azacitidine.  
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption 
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application. The CHMP considered that a biowaiver for 
a generic azacitidine powder for suspension for injection product is acceptable considering that the test and 
reference product have the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance and the same 
qualitative and very similar quantitative composition in excipients, that the provided in vitro data 
demonstrate high aqueous solubility of azacitidine, rapid and similar dissolution rate between the test and 
reference products and that the reconstitution instructions for the products by healthcare professionals prior 
to administration, which requires vigorous shaking, are common between test and reference product. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The clinical overview on the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety has been provided and is adequate.  
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application which is in line with the CHMP WPs view 
that a biowaiver for BE studies for azacitidine generics is acceptable.  
Azacitidine betapharm is considered essentially similar to Vidaza, Celgene Europe B.V. 
2.4.3.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Azacitidine betapharm was provided and was 
accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guidelines, WPs positions and additional 
clinical studies were not considered necessary. Azacitidine betapharm is considered essentially similar to 
Vidaza, Celgene Europe B.V. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 17/20 
  
  
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Pharmacovigilance plan  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
Risk minimisation measures 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 18/20 
  
  
 
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of azacitidine 25 mg/mL powder for suspension for injection. The 
reference product Vidaza is indicated for: 
the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
with: 
- 
intermediate-2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
- 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, 
- 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation (WHO) classification, 
- 
AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
 No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Azacitidine betapharm is favourable in the following indication: 
For the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
with: 
- 
intermediate-2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
- 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, 
- 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation (WHO) classification, 
- 
AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 19/20 
  
  
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/91461/2020 
Page 20/20 
  
  
 
 
