Summary of the risk management plan for Azarga 
(brinzolamide/timolol)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Azarga. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  Azarga,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Azarga’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information).
Azarga’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Azarga 
should be used.
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Azarga  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
its 
information 
plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment 
Report (EPAR).
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Azarga’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Azarga is authorised for the decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients 
with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy provides 
insufficient  IOP  reduction.  It  contains  brinzolamide  and  timolol  as  the  active 
substances and it is given as eye drops.
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Azarga’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Azarga’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to the EPAR summary landing page 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/azarga-epar-summary-
public_en.pdf).
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or
further characterize the risks
Important risks of Azarga, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Azarga’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;

 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously  and  regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Azarga are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Azarga. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B: Summary of important risks
Not applicable, since there are no important risks/safety concerns. Routine risks 
minimization  measures  are  considered  sufficient  to  manage  the  risks  associated 
with Azarga.
II.C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Azarga.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Azarga.
