ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
AZARGA 10 mg/ml + 5 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of suspension contains 10 mg brinzolamide and 5 mg timolol (as timolol maleate). 
Excipient with known effect 
One ml of suspension contains 0.10 mg benzalkonium chloride. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Eye drops, suspension (eye drops) 
White to off-white uniform suspension, pH 7.2 (approximately). 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Use in adults, including the elderly 
The dose is one drop of AZARGA in the conjunctival sac of the affected eye(s) twice daily. 
When using nasolacrimal occlusion or closing the eyelids, the systemic absorption is reduced. This 
may result in a decrease in systemic side effects and an increase in local activity (see section 4.4). 
If a dose is missed, treatment should be continued with the next dose as planned. The dose should not 
exceed one drop in the affected eye (s) twice daily. 
When substituting another ophthalmic antiglaucoma medicinal product with AZARGA, the other 
medicinal product should be discontinued and AZARGA should be started the following day. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of AZARGA in children and adolescents aged 0 to 18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available. 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
No studies have been conducted with AZARGA or with timolol 5 mg/ml eye drops in patients with 
hepatic or renal impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with hepatic impairment or 
in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AZARGA has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance <30 ml/min) or in patients with hyperchloraemic acidosis (see section 4.3). Since 
brinzolamide and its main metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney, AZARGA is therefore 
contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (see section 4.3). 
AZARGA should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.4). 
Method of administration 
For ocular use. 
Patients should be instructed to shake the bottle well before use. After cap is removed, if tamper 
evident snap collar is loose, remove before using product. 
To prevent contamination of the dropper tip and the suspension, care must be taken not to touch the 
eyelids, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper tip of the bottle. Instruct patients to keep 
the bottle tightly closed when not in use. 
If more than one topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used, the medicinal products must be 
administered at least 5 minutes apart. Eye ointments should be administered last. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to other beta-blockers. 
Hypersensitivity to sulphonamides (see section 4.4). 
Reactive airway disease including bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma, or severe 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, sino-atrial block, second or third degree 
atrioventricular block not controlled with pace-maker. Overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock. 
Severe allergic rhinitis 
Hyperchloraemic acidosis (see section 4.2). 
Severe renal impairment. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Systemic effects 
• 
• 
Brinzolamide and timolol are absorbed systemically. Due to the beta-adrenergic blocking 
component, timolol, the same types of cardiovascular, pulmonary and other adverse reactions 
seen with systemic beta-adrenergic blocking agents may occur. The incidence of systemic 
adverse reactions after topical ophthalmic administration is lower than for systemic 
administration. To reduce the systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (TEN) reported with sulphonamide derivates can occur in patients receiving 
AZARGA as it is absorbed systemically. At the time of prescription, patients should be advised 
of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin reactions. If signs of serious reactions 
or hypersensitivity occur, AZARGA should be withdrawn immediately. 
Cardiac disorders 
In patients with cardiovascular diseases (e.g. coronary heart disease, Prinzmetal's angina and cardiac 
failure) and hypotension, therapy with beta-blockers should be critically assessed and the therapy with 
other active substances should be considered. Patients with cardiovascular diseases should be watched 
for signs of deterioration of these diseases and of adverse reactions. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to its negative effect on conduction time, beta-blockers should only be given with caution to 
patients with first degree heart block. 
Vascular disorders 
Patients with severe peripheral circulatory disturbance/disorders (i.e. severe forms of Raynaud’s 
disease or Raynaud’s syndrome) should be treated with caution. 
Hyperthyroidism 
Beta-blockers may also mask the signs of hyperthyroidism. 
Muscle weakness 
Beta-adrenergic blocking medicinal products have been reported to potentiate muscle weakness 
consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms (e.g. diplopia, ptosis and generalised weakness). 
Respiratory disorders 
Respiratory reactions, including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma have been 
reported following administration of some ophthalmic beta-blockers. AZARGA should be used with 
caution, in patients with mild/moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and only if the 
potential benefit outweighs the potential risk. 
Hypoglycaemia/diabetes 
Beta-blockers should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycaemia 
or to patients with labile diabetes, as beta-blockers may mask the signs and symptoms of acute 
hypoglycaemia. 
Acid/base disturbances 
AZARGA contains brinzolamide, a sulphonamide. The same types of adverse reactions that are 
attributable to sulphonamides may occur with topical administration. Acid-base disturbances have 
been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. This medicinal product should be used with 
caution in patients with risk of renal impairment because of the possible risk of metabolic acidosis. If 
signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur, discontinue the use of this medicinal product. 
Mental alertness 
Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness 
and/or physical coordination. AZARGA is absorbed systemically and therefore this may occur with 
topical administration. 
Anaphylactic reactions 
While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reaction 
to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge with such allergens and 
unresponsive to the usual doses of adrenaline used to treat anaphylactic reactions. 
Choroidal detachment 
Choroidal detachment has been reported with administration of aqueous suppressant therapy (e.g. 
timolol, acetazolamide) after filtration procedures. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surgical anaesthesia 
Beta-blocking ophthalmological preparations may block systemic beta-agonist effects e.g. of 
adrenaline. The anaesthesiologist should be informed when the patient is receiving timolol. 
Concomitant therapy 
The effect on intra-ocular pressure or the known effects of systemic beta-blockade may be potentiated 
when timolol is given to the patients already receiving a systemic beta-blocking agent. The response of 
these patients should be closely observed. The use of two topical beta-adrenergic blocking agents or 
two local carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
There is potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition 
in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and AZARGA. The concomitant 
administration of AZARGA and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors has not been studied and is not 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
Ocular effects 
There is limited experience with AZARGA in the treatment of patients with pseudoexfoliative 
glaucoma or pigmentary glaucoma. Caution should be utilised in treating these patients and close 
monitoring of IOP is recommended. 
AZARGA has not been studied in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma and its use is not 
recommended in these patients. 
Ophthalmic beta-blockers may induce dryness of eyes. Patients with corneal diseases should be treated 
with caution. 
The possible role of brinzolamide on corneal endothelial function has not been investigated in patients 
with compromised corneas (particularly in patients with low endothelial cell count). Specifically, 
patients wearing contact lenses have not been studied and careful monitoring of these patients when 
using brinzolamide is recommended, since carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may affect corneal hydration. 
This may lead to a corneal decompensation and oedema and wearing contact lenses might increase the 
risk for the cornea. Careful monitoring of patients with compromised corneas, such as patients with 
diabetes mellitus or corneal dystrophies, is recommended. 
AZARGA may be used while wearing contact lenses with careful monitoring (see below under 
‘Benzalkonium chloride’). 
Benzalkonium chloride 
AZARGA contains benzalkonium chloride which may cause eye irritation and is known to discolour 
soft contact lenses. Contact with soft contact lenses should be avoided. Patients must be instructed to 
remove contact lenses prior to the application of AZARGA and wait 15 minutes after instillation of the 
dose before reinsertion. 
Benzalkonium chloride has also been reported to cause punctate keratopathy and/or toxic ulcerative 
keratopathy. Close monitoring is required with frequent or prolonged use. 
Hepatic impairment 
AZARGA should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No specific drug interaction studies have been performed with AZARGA. 
AZARGA contains brinzolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and, although administered topically, 
is absorbed systemically. Acid-base disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitors. The potential for interactions must be considered in patients receiving AZARGA. 
There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase 
inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and brinzolamide eye drops. The 
concomitant administration of eye drops containing brinzolamide and oral carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitors is not recommended. 
The cytochrome P-450 isozymes responsible for metabolism of brinzolamide include CYP3A4 (main), 
CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9. It is expected that inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, clotrimazole, ritonavir and troleandomycin will inhibit the metabolism of 
brinzolamide by CYP3A4. Caution is advised if CYP3A4 inhibitors are given concomitantly. 
However, accumulation of brinzolamide is unlikely as renal elimination is the major route. 
Brinzolamide is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 isozymes. 
There is a potential for additive effects resulting in hypotension and/or marked bradycardia when an 
ophthalmic beta-blocker solution is administered concomitantly with oral calcium channel blockers, 
beta-adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrhythmics (including amiodarone), digitalis glycosides, 
parasympathomimetics, guanethidine. 
Beta blockers can decrease the response to adrenaline used to treat anaphylactic reactions. Special 
caution should be exercised in patients with a history of atopy or anaphylaxis (see section 4.4). 
The hypertensive reaction to sudden withdrawal of clonidine can be potentiated when taking beta-
blockers. Caution is recommended in the concomitant use of this medicinal product with clonidine. 
Potentiated systemic beta-blockade (e.g. decreased heart rate, depression) has been reported during 
combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g. quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) and timolol. 
Caution is recommended. 
Beta-blockers may increase the hypoglycaemic effect of antidiabetic agents. Beta-blockers can mask 
the signs and symptoms of hypoglycaemia (see section 4.4). 
Mydriasis resulting from concomitant use of ophthalmic beta-blockers and adrenaline (epinephrine) 
has been reported occasionally. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data regarding the use of ophthalmic brinzolamide and timolol in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals with brinzolamide have shown reproductive toxicity following systemic 
administration, see section 5.3. AZARGA should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary. To reduce the systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
Epidemiological studies have not revealed malformative effects but show a risk for intra uterine 
growth retardation when beta-blockers are administered by the oral route. In addition, signs and 
symptoms of beta-blockade (e.g. bradycardia, hypotension, respiratory distress and hypoglycaemia) 
have been observed in the neonate when beta-blockers have been administered until delivery. If 
AZARGA is administered until delivery, the neonate should be carefully monitored during the first 
days of life. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether ophthalmic brinzolamide is excreted in human breast milk. Studies in animals 
have shown that following oral administration brinzolamide is excreted in breast milk, see section 5.3. 
Beta-blockers are excreted in breast milk. However, at therapeutic doses of timolol in eye drops it is 
not likely that sufficient amounts would be present in breast milk to produce clinical symptoms of 
beta-blockade in the infant. To reduce the systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
However, a risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to 
discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from AZARGA therapy taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Studies have not been performed to evaluate the effect of topical ocular administration of Azarga on 
human fertility. 
Non-clinical data do not show any effects of either brinzolamide or timolol on male or female fertility 
following oral dosing. No effects on male or female fertility are anticipated from the use of AZARGA. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
AZARGA has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Temporary blurred vision or other visual disturbances may affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
If blurred vision occurs at instillation, the patient must wait until the vision clears before driving or 
using machines. 
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness 
and/or physical coordination (see section 4.4). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions were blurred vision, eye irritation and eye pain, 
occurring in approximately 2% to 7% of patients. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported during clinical studies and post-marketing 
surveillance with AZARGA and the individual components brinzolamide and timolol. They are 
classified according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), 
uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), very rare (<1/10 000), or not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
MedDRA Preferred Term (v. 18.0) 
System Organ 
Classification 
Infections and infestations  Not known: nasopharyngitis3, pharyngitis3, sinusitis3, rhinitis3 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Uncommon: white blood cell count decreased1 
Not known: decreased red blood cell count3, increased blood 
chloride3  
Not known: anaphylaxis2, anaphylactic shock1, systemic allergic 
reactions including angioedema, 2 localised and generalised rash2, 
hypersensitivity1, urticaria2, pruritus2  
Immune system disorders 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Not known: hypoglycaemia2 
Rare: insomnia1 
Not known: hallucinations2, depression1, memory loss2, apathy3, 
depressed mood3, decreased libido3, nightmare2,3, nervousness3  
Common: dysgeusia1 
Not known: cerebral ischaemia2, cerebrovascular accident2, 
syncope2, increases in the signs and symptoms of myasthenia 
gravis2, somnolence3, motor dysfunction3, amnesia3, memory 
impairment3, paraesthesia2,3, tremor3, hypoaesthesia3, ageusia3, 
dizziness1, headache1 
Common: punctate keratitis1, blurred vision1, eye pain1, eye 
irritation1 
Uncommon: keratitis1,2,3, dry eye1, vital dye staining cornea 
present1, eye discharge1, eye pruritus1, foreign body sensation in 
eyes1, ocular hyperaemia1, conjunctival hyperaemia1 
Rare: corneal erosion1, anterior chamber flare1, photophobia1, 
lacrimation increased1, scleral hyperaemia1, erythema of eyelid1, 
eyelid margin crusting1 
Not known: increased optic nerve cup/disc ratio3, choroidal 
detachment following filtration surgery2 (see section 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for use), keratopathy3, corneal epithelium 
defect3, corneal epithelium disorder3, increased intraocular 
pressure3, eye deposit3, corneal staining3, corneal oedema3, 
decreased corneal sensitivity2, conjunctivitis3, meibomianitis3, 
diplopia2, 3, glare3, photopsia3, reduced visual acuity3, visual 
impairment1, pterygium3, ocular discomfort3, keratoconjunctivitis 
sicca3, hypoaesthesia of the eye3, scleral pigmentation3, 
subconjunctival cyst3, visual disturbance3, eye swelling3, eye 
allergy3, madarosis3, eyelid disorder3, eyelid oedema1, ptosis2  
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders  Not known: vertigo3, tinnitus3 
Common: heart rate decreased1 
Cardiac disorders 
Not known: cardiac arrest2, cardiac failure2, congestive heart 
failure2, atrioventricular block2, cardio-respiratory distress3, angina 
pectoris3, bradycardia2,3, irregular heart rate3, arrhythmia2,3, 
palpitations2,3, tachycardia3, increased heart rate3, chest pain2, 
oedema2  
Uncommon: decreased blood pressure1 
Not known: hypotension2, hypertension3, blood pressure increased1, 
Raynaud’s phenomenon2, cold hands and feet2 
Uncommon: cough1 
Rare: oropharyngeal pain1, rhinorrhoea1 
Not known: bronchospasm2 (predominantly in patients with pre-
existing bronchospastic disease), dyspnoea1, asthma3, epistaxis1, 
bronchial hyperactivity3, throat irritation3, nasal congestion3, upper 
respiratory tract congestion3, postnasal drip3, sneezing3, nasal 
dryness3 
Not known: vomiting2,3, abdominal pain upper1, abdominal pain2, 
diarrhoea1, dry mouth1, nausea1, oesophagitis3, dyspepsia2,3, 
abdominal discomfort3, stomach discomfort3, frequent bowel 
movements3, gastrointestinal disorder3, oral hypoaesthesia3, oral 
paraesthesia3, flatulence3 
Not known: abnormal liver function test3 
Not known: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS)/toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (TEN) (see section 4.4), urticaria3, maculo-papular rash3, 
generalised pruritus3, skin tightness3, dermatitis3, alopecia1, 
psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis2, rash1, erythema1 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
8 
 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders  Uncommon: blood urine present1 
Not known: myalgia1
,
in extremity3 
 muscle spasms3, arthralgia3, back pain3, pain 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Not known: renal pain3, pollakiuria3  
Not known: erectile dysfunction3, sexual dysfunction2, decreased 
libido2 
Uncommon: malaise1,3 
Not known: chest pain1, pain3, fatigue1, asthenia2,3, chest 
discomfort3, feeling jittery3, irritability3, peripheral oedema3, 
medication residue3 
Uncommon: blood potassium increase1, blood lactate 
dehydrogenase increased1  
1 
2 
3 
adverse reactions observed for Azarga 
additional adverse reactions observed with timolol monotherapy 
additional adverse reactions observed with brinzolamide monotherapy 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Dysgeusia (bitter or unusual taste in the mouth following instillation) was a frequently reported 
systemic adverse reaction associated with the use of AZARGA during clinical trials. It is likely to be 
caused by passage of the eye drops in the nasopharynx via the nasolacrimal canal and is attributable to 
brinzolamide. Nasolacrimal occlusion or gently closing the eyelid after instillation may help reduce 
the occurrence of this effect (see section 4.2). 
AZARGA contains brinzolamide which is a sulphonamide inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase with 
systemic absorption. Gastrointestinal, nervous system, haematological, renal and metabolic effects are 
generally associated with systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The same type of adverse reactions 
attributable to oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may occur with topical administration. 
Timolol is absorbed into the systemic circulation. This may cause similar adverse reactions as seen 
with systemic beta-blocking medicinal products. Listed adverse reactions include reactions seen within 
the class of ophthalmic beta-blockers. Additional adverse reactions associated with the use of the 
individual components that may potentially occur with AZARGA are included in the table above. The 
incidence of systemic adverse reactions after topical ophthalmic administration is lower than for 
systemic administration. To reduce the systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
Paediatric population 
AZARGA is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years due to a lack of 
data on safety and efficacy. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In case of accidental ingestion, symptoms of overdose from beta blockade may include bradycardia, 
hypotension, cardiac failure and bronchospasm. 
If overdose with AZARGA eye drops occurs, treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. Due to 
brinzolamide, electrolyte imbalance, development of an acidotic state, and possibly central nervous 
system effects may occur. Serum electrolyte levels (particularly potassium) and blood pH levels 
should be monitored. Studies have shown that timolol does not dialyse readily. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Ophthalmologicals, Antiglaucoma preparation and miotics, ATC code: 
S01ED51 
Mechanism of action 
AZARGA contains two active substances: brinzolamide and timolol maleate. These two components 
decrease elevated IOP primarily by reducing aqueous humour secretion, but do so by different 
mechanisms of action. The combined effect of these two active substances results in additional IOP 
reduction compared to either compound alone. 
Brinzolamide is a potent inhibitor of human carbonic anhydrase II (CA-II), the predominant iso-
enzyme in the eye. Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases 
aqueous humour secretion, presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent 
reduction in sodium and fluid transport. 
Timolol is a non-selective adrenergic-blocking agent that has no intrinsic sympathomimetic, direct 
myocardial depressant or membrane-stabilising activity. Tonography and fluorophotometry studies in 
man suggest that its predominant action is related to reduced aqueous humour formation and a slight 
increase in outflow facility. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Clinical effects 
In a twelve-month, controlled clinical trial in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension who, in the investigator’s opinion could benefit from a combination therapy, and who 
had baseline mean IOP of 25 to 27 mmHg, the mean IOP-lowering effect of AZARGA dosed twice 
daily was 7 to 9 mmHg. The non-inferiority of AZARGA as compared to dorzolamide 
20 mg/ml + timolol 5 mg/ml in the mean IOP reduction was demonstrated across all time-points at all 
visits. 
In a six-month, controlled clinical study in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension 
and baseline mean IOP of 25 to 27 mmHg, the mean IOP-lowering effect of AZARGA dosed twice 
daily was 8 to 9 mmHg, and was up to 3 mmHg greater than that of brinzolamide 10 mg/ml dosed 
twice daily and up to 2 mmHg greater than that of timolol 5 mg/ml dosed twice daily. A statistically 
superior reduction in mean IOP was observed compared to both brinzolamide and timolol at all time-
points and visits throughout the study. 
In three controlled clinical trials, the ocular discomfort upon instillation of AZARGA was significantly 
lower than that of dorzolamide 20 mg/ml + timolol 5 mg/ml. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following topical ocular administration, brinzolamide and timolol are absorbed through the cornea 
and into the systemic circulation. In a pharmacokinetic study, healthy subjects received oral 
brinzolamide (1 mg) twice daily for 2 weeks to shorten the time to reach steady-state prior to starting 
AZARGA administration. Following twice daily dosing of AZARGA for 13 weeks, red blood cell 
(RBC) concentrations of brinzolamide averaged 18.8  3.29 µM, 18.1  2.68 µM and 18.4  3.01 µM 
at weeks 4, 10 and 15, respectively, indicating that steady-state RBC concentrations of brinzolamide 
were maintained 
At steady state, following administration of AZARGA, the mean plasma Cmax and AUC0-12h of timolol 
were 27% and 28% lower (Cmax: 0.824 ± 0.453 ng/ml; AUC0-12h: 4.71 ± 4.29 ng·h/ml), respectively, in 
comparison to the administration of timolol 5 mg/ml (Cmax: 1.13 ± 0.494 ng/ml; 
AUC0-12h: 6.58 ± 3.18 ng·h/ml). The lower systemic exposure to timolol following AZARGA 
administration is not clinically relevant. Following administration of AZARGA, mean Cmax of timolol 
was reached at 0.79 ± 0.45 hours. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding of brinzolamide is moderate (about 60%). Brinzolamide is sequestered in 
RBCs due to its high affinity binding to CA-II and to a lesser extent to CA-I. Its active N-desethyl 
metabolite also accumulates in RBCs where it binds primarily to CA-I. The affinity of brinzolamide 
and metabolite to RBC and tissue CA results in low plasma concentrations. 
Ocular tissue distribution data in rabbits showed that timolol can be measured in aqueous humour up 
to 48 hours after administration of AZARGA. At steady-state, timolol is detected in human plasma for 
up to 12 hours after administration of AZARGA. 
Biotransformation 
The metabolic pathways for the metabolism of brinzolamide involve N-dealkylation, O-dealkylation 
and oxidation of its N-propyl side chain. N-desethyl brinzolamide is a major metabolite of 
brinzolamide formed in humans, which also binds to CA-I in the presence of brinzolamide and 
accumulates in RBCs. In vitro studies show that the metabolism of brinzolamide mainly involves 
CYP3A4 as well as at least four other isozymes (CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9). 
Timolol is metabolised by two pathways. One route yields an ethanolamine side chain on the 
thiadiazole ring and the other giving an ethanolic side chain on the morpholine nitrogen and a second 
similar side chain with a carbonyl group adjacent to the nitrogen. Timolol metabolism is mediated 
primarily by CYP2D6. 
Elimination 
Brinzolamide is eliminated primarily by renal excretion (approximately 60%). About 20% of the dose 
has been accounted for in urine as metabolite. Brinzolamide and N-desethyl-brinzolamide are the 
predominant components found in the urine along with trace levels (<1%) of the N-desmethoxypropyl 
and O-desmethyl metabolites. 
Timolol and its metabolites are primarily excreted by the kidneys. Approximately 20% of a timolol 
dose is excreted in the urine unchanged and the remainder excreted in urine as metabolites. The 
plasma t1/2 of timolol is 4.8 hours after administration of AZARGA. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Brinzolamide 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans with brinzolamide based on single-dose 
toxicity, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, and topical ocular irritation 
studies. 
Developmental toxicity studies in rabbits with oral doses of brinzolamide of up to 6 mg/kg/day 
(214 times the recommended daily clinical dose of 28 µg/kg/day) revealed no effect on foetal 
development despite significant maternal toxicity. Similar studies in rats resulted in slightly reduced 
ossification of skull and sternebrae of foetuses of dams receiving brinzolamide at doses 
of 18 mg/kg/day (642 times the recommended daily clinical dose), but not 6 mg/kg/day. These 
findings occurred at doses that caused metabolic acidosis with decreased body weight gain in dams 
and decreased foetal weights. Dose-related decreases in foetal weights were observed in pups of dams 
receiving brinzolamide orally ranging from a slight decrease (about 5-6%) at 2 mg/kg/day to 
nearly 14% at 18 mg/kg/day. During lactation, the no adverse effect level in the offspring was 
5 mg/kg/day. 
Timolol 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans with timolol based on single-dose toxicity, 
repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, and topical ocular irritation studies. 
Reproduction toxicity studies with timolol showed delayed foetal ossification in rats with no adverse 
effects on postnatal development (at 50 mg/kg/day or 3 500 times the daily clinical dose of 
14 g/kg/day) and increased foetal resorptions in rabbits (at 90 mg/kg/day or 6 400 times the daily 
clinical dose). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Mannitol (E421) 
Carbopol 974P 
Tyloxapol 
Disodium edetate 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
4 weeks after first opening. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
5 ml round opaque low density polyethylene bottles with a dispensing plug and white polypropylene 
screw cap containing 5 ml suspension. 
Cartons containing 1 or 3 bottles. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/482/001-002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first Authorisation: 25 November 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 26 August 2013 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR SINGLE BOTTLE 5 ml + CARTON FOR 3 x 5 ml BOTTLES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
AZARGA 10 mg/ml + 5 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide/timolol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
1 ml of suspension contains 10 mg brinzolamide and 5 mg timolol (as timolol maleate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains: benzalkonium chloride, mannitol (E421), carbopol 974P, tyloxapol, disodium edetate, 
sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (to adjust pH), purified water. 
See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Eye drops, suspension 
1 x 5 ml 
3 x 5 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake well before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Ocular use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/08/482/001 
EU/1/08/482/002 
1 x 5 ml 
3 x 5 ml 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
azarga 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER-2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
AZARGA 10 mg/ml + 5 mg/ml eye drops 
brinzolamide/timolol 
Ocular use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 ml 
6 
OTHER 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
AZARGA 10 mg/ml + 5 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide/timolol 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them 
even if their signs of illnesses are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What AZARGA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use AZARGA 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use AZARGA 
Possible side effects 
How to store AZARGA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What AZARGA is and what it is used for 
AZARGA contains two active substances, brinzolamide and timolol, which work together to reduce 
pressure within the eye. 
AZARGA is used to treat high pressure in the eyes, also called glaucoma or ocular hypertension, in 
adult patients that are more than 18 years of age and in whom high pressure in the eyes cannot be 
controlled effectively by one medicine alone. 
2.  What you need to know before you use AZARGA 
Do not use AZARGA 
• 
If you are allergic to brinzolamide, medicines called sulphonamides (examples include 
medicines used to treat diabetes, infections and also diuretics (water tablets)), timolol, beta-
blockers (medicines used to lower blood pressure or to treat heart disease) or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you have now or have had in the past respiratory problems such as asthma, severe long lasting 
obstructive bronchitis (severe lung condition which may cause wheezing, difficulty in breathing 
and/or long standing cough) or other types of breathing problems. 
If you have severe hay fever 
If you have a slow heart beat, heart failure or disorders of heart rhythm (irregular heartbeats). 
If you have too much acidity in your blood (a condition called hyperchloraemic acidosis). 
If you have severe kidney problems. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Only use AZARGA for dropping in your eye(s). 
If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur, discontinue the use of this product and talk to 
your doctor. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using AZARGA if you have or have had in the past: 
• 
coronary heart disease (symptoms can include chest pain or tightness, breathlessness or 
choking), heart failure, low blood pressure 
disturbances of heart rate such as slow heart beat 
breathing problems, asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
poor blood circulation disease (such as Raynaud’s disease or Raynaud’s syndrome) 
diabetes as timolol may mask signs and symptoms of low blood sugar 
overactivity of the thyroid gland as timolol may mask signs and symptoms of thyroid disease 
muscular weakness (myasthenia gravis) 
tell your doctor before you have an operation that you are using AZARGA as timolol may 
change effects of some medicines used during anaesthesia. 
if you have a history of atopy (a tendency to develop an allergic reaction) and severe allergic 
reactions you may be more sensitive to developing an allergic reaction whilst using AZARGA 
and adrenaline may not be as effective to treat an allergic reaction. When receiving any other 
treatment please tell the doctor or nurse that you are taking AZARGA. 
if you have liver problems. 
if you have dry eyes or cornea problems. 
if you have problems with your kidneys. 
if you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores after 
using AZARGA or other related medicines. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Take special care with AZARGA: 
Serious skin reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been 
reported in association with brinzolamide treatment. Stop using AZARGA and seek medical attention 
immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these serious skin reactions described in 
section 4. 
Children and adolescents 
AZARGA is not recommended for children and adolescents under 18 years. 
Other medicines and AZARGA 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
AZARGA can affect, or be affected by, other medicines you are taking, including other eye drops for 
the treatment of glaucoma. Tell your doctor if you are taking or intent to take medicines to lower 
blood pressure like parasympathomimetics and guanetidine, or other heart medicines including 
quinidine (used to treat heart conditions and some types of malaria), amiodarone or other medicines to 
treat heart rhythm disorders and glycosides to treat heart insufficiency. Also tell your doctor if you are 
taking or intend to take medicines to treat diabetes, or to treat gastric ulcers, antifungal, antiviral or 
antibiotic medicines, or antidepressants such as fluoxetine and paroxetine. 
If you are taking another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (acetazolamide or dorzolamide), talk to your 
doctor. 
Increase in pupil size when taking Azarga and adrenaline (epinephrine) together has been reported 
occasionally. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You should not use AZARGA if you are pregnant or might get pregnant, unless your doctor considers 
it necessary. Talk to your doctor before you use AZARGA. 
Do not use AZARGA if you are breast feeding, timolol may get into your milk. 
Ask your doctor for advice before taking any medicine during breastfeeding. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use machines until your vision is clear. You may find that your vision is blurred for 
some time just after using AZARGA. 
One of the active ingredients may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness and/or 
physical coordination. If affected take care when driving or using machines. 
AZARGA contains benzalkonium chloride 
This medicine contains 3.34 µg benzalkonium chloride per drop (= 1 dose) which is equivalent to 
0.01% or 0.1 mg/ml. 
AZARGA contains a preservative (benzalkonium chloride) which may be absorbed by soft contact 
lenses and may change the colour of the contact lenses. You should remove contact lenses before 
using this medicine and put them back 15 minutes afterwards. Benzalkonium chloride may also cause 
eye irritation, especially if you have dry eyes or disorders of the cornea (the clear layer at the front of 
the eye). If you feel abnormal eye sensation, stinging or pain in the eye after using this medicine, talk 
to your doctor. 
3.  How to use AZARGA 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
If you are changing from another eye drop medicine used to treat glaucoma to AZARGA, you should 
stop using the other medicine and start using AZARGA the following day. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure 
To  prevent  contamination of  the  dropper tip  and  the suspension, care  must  be  taken not to touch 
the  eyelids,  surrounding areas  or  other  surfaces with  the  dropper  tip.  Keep the bottle tightly closed 
when not in use. 
The following measure is useful to limit the amount of medicine that will come into the blood after 
application of eye drops: 
- 
Keep the eyelid closed, while simultaneously applying gentle pressure to the corner of the eye 
next to the nose with a finger for at least 2 minutes. 
The recommended dose is 
One drop in the affected eye or eyes, twice a day. 
Only use AZARGA in both eyes if your doctor told you to. Take it for as long as your doctor told you 
to. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to use 
1 
2 
3 
Get the AZARGA bottle and a mirror. 
• 
•  Wash your hands. 
• 
• 
Shake well before use. 
Twist off the bottle cap. After the cap is removed, if the tamper evident snap collar is loose, 
remove before using product. 
Hold the bottle, pointing down, between your thumb and fingers. 
Tilt your head back. Pull down your eyelid with a clean finger, until there is a ‘pocket’ between 
the eyelid and your eye. The drop will go in here (picture 1). 
Bring the bottle tip close to the eye. Use the mirror if it helps. 
Do not touch your eye or eyelid, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper. It could 
infect the drops. 
Gently press on the base of the bottle to release one drop of AZARGA at a time. 
Do not squeeze the bottle: it is designed so that a gentle press on the bottom is all that it needs 
(picture 2). 
After using AZARGA, press a finger into the corner of your eye, by the nose for 2 minutes 
(picture 3). This helps to stop AZARGA getting into the rest of the body. 
If you use drops in both eyes, repeat the steps for your other eye. 
Close the bottle cap firmly immediately after use. 
Use up one bottle before opening the next bottle. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If a drop misses your eye, try again. 
If you are using other eye drop or eye ointment medicines leave at least 5 minutes between each 
medicine. Eye ointments should be administered last. 
If you use more AZARGA than you should, rinse your eye with warm water. Do not put in any 
more drops until it is time for your next regular dose. 
You may experience a decreased heart rate, decreased blood pressure, heart failure, difficulty 
breathing and your nervous system may be affected 
If you forget to use AZARGA, continue with the next dose as planned. Do not use a double dose to 
make up for the forgotten dose. Do not use more than one drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily. 
If you stop using AZARGA without speaking to your doctor, the pressure in your eye will not be 
controlled which could lead to loss of sight. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects although not everybody gets them. 
Stop using AZARGA and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the following 
symptoms: 
• 
severe redness and itching of the eye, reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the 
trunk, often with central blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. 
These serious skin rashes can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
You can usually carry on taking the drops, unless the effects are serious. If you are worried, talk to 
your doctor or pharmacist. Do not stop using Azarga without speaking to your doctor first. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Effects in the eye: eye surface inflammation, blurred vision, signs and symptoms of eye 
irritation (e.g. burning, stinging, itching, tearing, redness), eye pain. 
General side effects: heart rate decreased, taste disturbances. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
Effects in the eye: corneal erosion (damage to the front layer of the eyeball), Eye surface 
inflammation with surface damage, inflammation inside the eye, corneal staining, abnormal 
sensation in the eyes, eye discharge, dry eye, tired eyes, itchy eye, eye redness, eyelid redness. 
General side effects: decrease in white blood cell count, decreased blood pressure, cough, 
blood in urine, body weakness. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
Effects in the eye: corneal disorder, sensitivity to light, increased tear production, eyelid 
crusting 
General side effects: difficulty sleeping (insomnia), throat pain, running nose 
• 
• 
• 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
Effects in the eye: eye allergy, disturbance of vision, damage to the optic nerve, increased 
pressure in eye, deposits on the eye surface, decreased eye sensation, inflammation or infection 
of the conjunctiva (white of the eye), abnormal, double or reduced vision, increased 
pigmentation of the eye, growth on surface of eye, eye swelling, sensitivity to light, decreased 
growth or number of eyelashes, drooping of the upper eyelids (making the eye stay half closed), 
inflammation of the eyelid and eye lid glands, inflammation in the cornea and detachment of the 
layer below the retina that contains blood vessels following filtration surgery which may cause 
visual disturbances, decreased corneal sensitivity. 
General side effects: reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often 
with central blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes, which can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms. These serious skin rashes can be potentially life-
threatening (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
Heart and circulation: changes in rhythm or rate of the heartbeat, slow heart rate, palpitations, 
a type of heart rhythm disorder, abnormal  increase in heart rate, chest pain, reduced heart 
function, heart attack, increased blood pressure, reduced blood supply to the brain, stroke, 
oedema (fluid build up), congestive heart failure (heart disease with shortness of breath and 
swelling of the feet and legs due to fluid build up), swelling of the extremities, low blood 
pressure, discoloration of the fingers, toes, and occasionally other areas of the body (Raynaud’s 
phenomenon), cold hands and feet. 
Respiratory: Constriction of the airways in the lungs (predominantly in patients with pre-
existing disease) shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, cold symptoms, chest congestion, 
sinus infection, sneezing, stuffy nose, dry nose, nose bleeds, asthma, throat irritation. 
Nervous system and general disorders: hallucinations, depression, nightmares, memory loss, 
headache, nervousness, irritability, tiredness, shaking, feeling abnormal, fainting, dizziness, 
drowsiness, generalised or severe weakness, unusual sensations like pins and needles. 
Gastric: nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, intestinal gas or abdominal discomfort, inflammation of 
the throat, dry or abnormal sensation in mouth, indigestion, stomach ache. 
Blood: abnormal liver function values, increased blood chlorine levels, or decreased red blood 
cell count as seen in a blood test. 
Allergy: increased allergic symptoms, generalised allergic reactions including swelling beneath 
the skin that can occur in areas such as the face and limbs and can obstruct the airway which 
may cause difficulty swallowing or breathing, hives, localised and generalised rash, itchiness, 
severe sudden life-threatening allergic reaction. 
Ear: ringing in the ears, sensation of spinning or dizziness. 
Skin: rash, skin redness or inflammation, abnormal or decreased skin sensation, hair loss, rash 
with white silvery coloured appearance (psoriasiform rash) or worsening of psoriasis. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Muscular: generalised back, joint, or muscle pain not caused by exercise, muscle spasms, pain 
in extremities, muscle weakness/tiredness, increases in the signs and symptoms of myasthenia 
gravis (muscle disorder). 
Kidney: kidney pain such as lower back pain, frequent urination. 
Reproduction: sexual dysfunction, decreased libido, male sexual difficulty. 
• 
• 
•  Metabolism: low blood sugar levels. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  How to store AZARGA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and the carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Throw away the bottle 4 weeks after first opening to prevent infections, and use a new bottle. Write 
down the date of opening on the bottle label and carton label in the space provided. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What AZARGA contains 
• 
• 
The active substances are brinzolamide and timolol. One ml of suspension contains 10 mg of 
brinzolamide and 5 mg of timolol (as maleate). 
The other ingredients are benzalkonium chloride (see section 2 ‘AZARGA contains 
benzalkonium’), carbopol 974P, disodium edetate, mannitol (E421), purified water, sodium 
chloride, tyloxapol, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide. 
Tiny amounts of hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide are added to keep acidity levels 
(pH levels) normal. 
What AZARGA looks like and contents of the pack 
AZARGA is a liquid (white to off-white uniform suspension) supplied in a pack containing one 5 ml 
plastic bottle with a screw cap or in a pack containing three 5 ml bottles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
