European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/643354/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
AZARGA 
International Nonproprietary Name: brinzolamide/timolol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000960 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 13 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 40 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 45 
Page 2/47 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Alcon  Laboratories  (UK)  Ltd.  submitted  on  3  December  2007  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  AZARGA,  through  the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 24 January 2007.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Steffen Thirstrup  Co-Rapporteur: Gonzalo Calvo Rojas 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 3 December 2007. 
The procedure started on 26 December 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 March 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 
March 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  April  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 April 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 May 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 8 July 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 July 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 27 August 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 8 September 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  22-25  September  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  AZARGA  on  25  September  2008.  The  applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 22 September 2008. 
Page 3/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Introduction 
Primary open-angle glaucoma (poag) 
Primary  open-angle  glaucoma  is  a  chronic,  generally  bilateral  but  often  asymmetrical  disease 
characterised  by  a  multifactorial  optic  neuropathy  where  there  is  a  characteristic  acquired  loss  of 
retinal ganglion cells and atrophy of the optic nerve. There is an evidence of progressive optic nerve 
damage observed by either or both of the following: 
•  The  presence  of  the  following  in  the  optic  disc  or  retinal  nerve  fibre  layer:  1)  diffuse  or  focal 
narrowing  or  notching  of  the  disc  rim,  especially  at  the  inferior  or  superior  poles;  2)  diffuse  or 
localized abnormalities of the retinal nerve fibre layer, especially at the inferior or superior poles; 3) 
nerve fibre layer haemorrhages; 4) asymmetrical appearance of the optic disc rim in the fellow eye that 
suggests loss of neural tissue. 
•  The  presence  of  one  or  more  of  the  following  abnormalities  in  the  visual  field    in  the  absence  of 
other  explanations  for  a  field  defect:  nasal  step  or  scotoma;  inferior  or  superior  arcuate  scotoma; 
paracentral  scotoma;  generalized  depression;  persistent  worsening  of  the  correct  pattern  standard 
deviation (CPSD) or corrected loss variance (CLV) on automated threshold perimetry. 
The aetiology is multifactorial and the elevated IOP is an important risk factor among several others, 
e.g. inheritance, age, race, myopia and cardiovascular disease. In the European population above the 
age of 40 years the occurrence is about 1 %, (accelerating with increasing age). 
Other characteristics are: 
Adult onset 
1. 
Open, normal-appearing anterior-chamber angles 
2. 
Absence  of  known  other  (e.g.,  secondary)  explanations  for  progressive  glaucomatous  optic 
3. 
nerve change (e.g., pigment dispersion, pseudoexfoliation, iridocorneal endothelial syndrome). 
Secondary open angle glaucoma 
Characterised  by  open  angles  and  secondary  explanations  for  progressive  glaucomatous  optic  nerve 
change  due  to  elevated  intraocular  pressures  caused  by  e.g.  pigment  dispersion,  pseudoexfoliation, 
iridocorneal  endothelial  syndrome  or  uveitis.  The  elevated  IOP  is  an  important  risk  factor  as  in 
primary open angle glaucoma. 
Ocular hypertension 
Characterised by a peak IOP>21 mm Hg and <30 mmHg without treatment, with a normal visual field, 
optic nerve disc,  retinal nerve fibre layer and no risk factors. 
Management 
Open angle glaucomas (primary and secondary) 
The  purpose  of  treatment  is  to  enhance  the  patients´  health  and  quality  of  life  by  preserving  visual 
function  without  causing  untoward  effects  from  therapy.    Treatment  of  the  main  risk  factor,  the 
intraocular  pressure,  by  lowering  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  has  until  now  been  the  preferred 
treatment.  The  treatment  aims  to  maintain  the  IOP  at  a  pressure  below  which  further  optic  nerve 
damage  is  unlikely  to  occur  in  the  patient.  The  IOP  can  be  lowered  by  medical  treatment,  laser 
surgery,  and  incisional  surgery  (alone  or  in  combination).  The  choice  of  initial  therapy  depends  on 
numerous considerations, and discussion of treatment should include all appropriate options. 
Initial therapy with topical medication  
In  most  instances,  topical  medications  constitute  initial  therapy.  Argon  laser  trabeculoplasty  is  an 
appropriate initial therapeutic alternative and filtering surgery may be an appropriate initial therapy for 
Page 4/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
some  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  glaucoma.  The  choice  of  treatment  will  have  as  its  goal  the 
greatest potential benefit in light of the level of risk, cost, and alterations in quality of life acceptable 
to each individual patient. 
Medical agents that increase aqueous outflow include topical miotics, topical adrenergic derivatives, 
and  prostaglandin  analogues.  Agents  that  decrease  aqueous  production  include  carbonic  anhydrase 
inhibitors, alpha2-adrenergic agonists and beta-adrenergic antagonists. To determine the effectiveness 
of topical therapy, it is necessary to distinguish between the therapeutic impact of an agent on IOP and 
ordinary background fluctuations of IOP. When starting a new topical agent, it is often useful to begin 
by treating only one eye and comparing the relative change of the IOP in the two eyes at follow-up 
visits. 
Establishing  an  effective  regimen  requires  attention to  its efficacy  (potential impact  on the  disease); 
toxicity  (the  drug-induced  side  effects);  and  the  degree  to  which  efficacy  is  reduced  by  non-
compliance  due  to  visual,  physical,  social,  economic,  or  psychologic  factors.  The  ophthalmologist 
should  evaluate  each  of  these  issues  and  choose  a  regimen  of  maximal  effectiveness  with  the  least 
medication to achieve the desired therapeutic response for each patient.  The goal should as well be to 
minimize the side effects of management and their impact on the patients´ vision, general health, and 
quality of life. 
The  choice  of therapy  must  take  into account  quality of life, cost  and compliance.  In  many  patients 
beta-blockers have been used as the first line of therapy and first choice since they are effective and 
usually  topically  well  tolerated;  caution  must  be  exercised  if  the  patient  suffers  from  a  systemic 
condition such as bronchopulmonary disease or cardiac arrhythmia, since the systemic absorption of 
these drugs may cause relevant adverse systemic effects. 
Over  the  past  few  years  there  has  been  a  gradual  shift  in  the  choice  of  first  time  medical  therapy. 
Prostaglandin derivatives/prostamides (such as latanoprost, travoprost and bimatoprost) have, in the 
hands  of  many  ophthalmologists  superseded  beta-blockers  as  the  first  choice,  especially  after  the 
approval  by  the  FDA  in  the  US  and  EMEA  in  Europe  as  1st  line  treatment.  The  Prostaglandin 
derivatives/prostamides have gained widespread use due to a high pressure lowering capacity, usually 
between 25 and 33%, and a high systemic safety profile.  
If  the  first  choice  alone  does  not  control  the  glaucoma  then  the  European  Glaucoma  Society 
Guidelines recommend to switch or to substitute before using adjunctive therapy in the form of other 
topical agents. In any individual patient in whom the first choice is not effective and/or tolerated, any 
of  the  other  topical  agents  should  be  initiated  as  monotherapy.  If  the  target  pressure  is  not  reached 
even after switching then a second medication should be added either as 2 separate bottles or as a fixed 
combination in one bottle.  
Characteristics of fixed drug combinations 
Advantages   
-  Better compliance 
-  Less toxicity by preservatives 
Characteristics of separate drug combinations 
Advantages 
-  Selective dosing and application frequency 
-  Selective discontinuation due to side effects 
-  Optimum pharmaceutical preparation oriented to each individual agent 
If more than two topical medications or 2 fixed combination bottles are required to control the IOP, 
then other forms of therapy, such as laser trabeculoplasty or glaucoma surgery, should be considered. 
So today, clinicians  and patients have a wider range of choices, which generally  are associated with 
fewer  adverse  effects  and  require  less  frequent  administration  than  before.  Medical  therapy  can 
therefore now be considered as an initial approach to treatment.  
Page 5/47 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
About the product 
AZARGA eye drops suspension is a fixed combination of two well-known ophthalmic drugs, timolol 
(5 mg/mL) and brinzolamide (10 mg/mL).  
The  approved  indication  for  AZARGA  is:  Decrease  of  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  in  adult  patients 
with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  for  whom  monotherapy  provides  insufficient IOP 
reduction. 
The  recommended  dose  is  one  drop  of  AZARGA  in  the  affected  eye(s)  twice  daily.  AZARGA  is  not 
recommended for use in children below 18 years due to a lack of data on safety and efficacy. 
Brinzolamide  is  a  carbonic  anhydrase  II  (CA-II)  inhibitor.  These  compounds  decrease  the  aqueous 
humor production by means of inhibiting the conversion of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate in the ciliary 
body. Inhibition of the carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humor 
secretion,  presumably  by  slowing  the  production  of  bicarbonate  ions  and  subsequent  reduction  in 
sodium and fluid transport. Oral CAIs such as oral acetazolamide have been a classical treatment for 
glaucoma,  but  are  very  poorly  tolerated  because  of  systemic  side  effects.  Adverse  events  of 
brinzolamide are mainly local. Most of the systemic side effects of oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors 
(CAIs) are not present with topical therapy because they are related to the systemic inhibition of the 
CA present in many tissues. However, some of the severe side effects, such as blood dyscrasias were 
not  dose-related  and  therefore,  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  occurrence  of  such  side  effects. 
Moreover,  brinzolamide  is  a  sulphonamide,  which  deserves  caution,  as  concerns  the  potential  for 
hypersensitivity. This is reflected in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Timolol is a non-selective β1 and β2 adrenoceptor antagonist that lowers IOP by suppressing aqueous 
humor formation in humans.  
Brinzolamide 1.0% is currently marketed by Alcon for the reduction of elevated IOP under the name 
Azopt. Brinzolamide was granted a European marketing authorisation via the centralised procedure in 
2000  (EMEA/H/C/267)  for  the  decrease  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in  ocular  hypertension  and 
open-angle  glaucoma,  as  monotherapy  in  patients  unresponsive  to  beta-blockers  or  in  patients  in 
whom beta-blockers are contra-indicated, or, significantly, as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers. 
Timolol  0.5%,  which  likewise  is  indicated  in  patients  with  ocular  hypertension  or  open-angle 
glaucoma for lowering IOP, has been on the market since 1981 in Europe and is generally applied as a 
0.5% eye drop solution. It is also available in a 0.25% solution and in a 0.1 mg % gel formulation.  
Several  prostaglandin  analogues  +  timolol  and  one  carbonic  anhydrase  inhibitor  +  timolol  fixed 
combination products have received marketing authorisation in EU Member States through the mutual 
recognition  or  centralised  procedure,  including  DuoTrav  (EMEA/H/C/665),  which  is  a  fixed 
combination  of  travoprost  40  µg/ml  and  timolol  5  mg/ml,  authorised  on  24  April  2006.  As  such, 
AZARGA  may  be  defined  as  a  fixed  combination  of  compounds  already  approved  as  co-
administration therapy. 
No CHMP Scientific Advice was sought, but regulatory advice was obtained from the Spanish Agency 
(AEMPS)  in July  2005  and  from  the  French  Agency  (AFSSAPS)  in  September  2005.  Questions  on 
quality, non-clinical and clinical issues were discussed.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
AZARGA is presented in the form of eye drops suspension, to be marketed in an opaque, white, low 
density polyethylene bottle with a natural dispensing plug and white polypropylene closure. The eye 
drops contain brinzolamide 10mg/ml and timolol 5mg/ml. 
Page 6/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  concentration  of  brinzolamide  is  the  same  as  in  the  approved  Azopt  Eye  Drops  and  the 
concentration of timolol is the same as in the approved DuoTrav Eye Drops. 
Other ingredients are defined in the SPC section 6.1. 
Active Substance 
Active Substance: brinzolamide 
Brinzolamide is an existing drug substance, which has been approved in the EU for use in Azopt 
eye drops suspension. 
The  chemical  name  of  brinzolamide  is  (R)-4-(Ethylamino)-3,4-dihydro-2-(3-methoxypropyl)-2H-
thieno[3,2-e]-1,2-thiazine-6-sulfonamide-1,1-dioxide  The  corresponding  molecular 
is 
C12H21N3O5S3  and  the  Relative  Molecular  Mass  383.51.  It  is  a  white  to  off-white  non-hygroscopic 
powder  or  crystals  odourless  or  with  a  faint  characteristic  odour.  The  solubility  in  water  is  pH 
dependant with minimal solubility at neutral pH and increased solubility at more basic or acidic pH. 
Partition  coefficient  (octanol/water)  at  pH  5.0  and  pH  7.4  are  0.65  and  6.56  respectively.  The 
dissociation constants pKa are 5.9 and 8.5.  
Brinzolamide  is  optically  active.  It  has  a  single  chiral  centre  and  is  produced  by  stereoselective 
synthesis process, the configuration established is R. Only one crystal form has been observed.  
formula 
•  Manufacture 
The  synthesis is carried out  in  8  adequately  described  steps. The  control  methods  are  described and 
typical  chromatograms  are  provided  where  relevant.  The  process  involves  the  use  of  one  catalyst, 
lithium-containing  reagents  and  several  solvents  throughout  the  process.  Suitable  specifications  of 
reagents and solvents are provided. The manufacturing process described does not include the use of 
class 1 solvents, according to the ICH Guideline on Residual Solvents. Reprocessing may take place if 
necessary.  
Six  intermediate  compounds  are  isolated  in  this  manufacturing  process;  sufficient  information 
regarding structural characterization specifications and analytical methods used for the control of each 
intermediate are provided.   
The  starting  materials  that  are  structurally  incorporated  into  the  active  pharmaceutical  product  are 
commercially available and the current suppliers are provided. Suitable tests and specifications used to 
control the quality of these starting materials are provided with the exception of sulfur dioxide due to 
safety considerations in handling of same, the identity test of which is not performed and acceptance is 
based on a Certificate of Analysis from the vendor. 
•  Specification 
The specifications for the control of brinzolamide includes tests for appearance (visual), identification 
(IR, chiral HPLC), colour and clarity of solution (PhEur), chiral purity (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), 
heavy  metals  (PhEur),  loss  on  drying  (PhEur),  residual  solvents(GC),  benzene,  residue  on  ignition 
(PhEur), assay (HPLC), bioburden (PhEur). 
Residual solvents in the drug substance specification are controlled by loss on drying and GC tesing.  
Three  batches,  manufactured  according  to  the  optimised  procedure,  were  tested  for  inorganic 
impurities  that  could  potentially  be  present  due  to  the  catalyst  and  the  lithium-containing  reagents 
Results were below the detection limit. These batches were screened for additional 44 metals but none 
was detected. 
Batch  results  for  four  batches  from  the  proposed  manufacturer  are  provided.  These  results  comply 
with the proposed specifications. 
•  Stability 
Three  pilot  scale  batches  manufactured  by  the  proposed  manufacturer  using  the  optimised  process 
have been stored at 25ºC/60% RH for 12 months and at 40ºC/75% RH for 6 months in the proposed 
market  packaging.  Parameters  investigated:  appearance,  identity,  loss  on  drying,  chromatographic 
purity and chiral purity. Test methods used are the same as used in the control of the drug substance, 
except for a TLC method used for identification, which has been adequately described. The applicant 
committed that the 3 batches of brinzolamide drug substance would continue to be tested for stability 
using ICH long-term conditions up to 156 weeks. 
Page 7/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stress  testing:  The  influence  of  heat  (50ºC)  was  studied  over  4,  8  and  12  weeks.  The  sample  was 
stored in the proposed market packaging and no degradation occurred.  
A  photostability  study  was  also  carried  out  over  28  days.  The  sample  was  stored  in  a  capped  glass 
autosampler  vial.  No  significant  degradation  was  observed.  The  photostability  study  was  performed 
prior to the ICH guideline. However, with only small differences the study met the requirements of the 
guideline and therefore the study can be considered valid. 
These results indicate that brinzolamide is a stable not photosensitive or hygroscopic drug substance. 
Further  supportive  data  were  provided  from  7  pilot  scale  batches  from  a  different  manufacturer 
employed during the initial phases of development and 1 batch from the proposed manufacturer. These 
batches have been studied at 25ºC/60% RH for up to 3 years and at 40ºC/75% RH for up to 6 months 
in the proposed market packaging. 
The overall results support the proposed retest period when stored in the proposed market packaging 
under the proposed storage conditions. 
Active Substance: Timolol maleate 
Timolol maleate is described in the European Pharmacopoeia. The corresponding molecular formula is 
C17H28N4O7S  and  the  Relative  Molecular  Mass  432.49.  It  is  a  white  or  almost  white,  crystalline 
powder or colourless crystals. It is soluble in water and in ethanol (96%). The dissociation constant 
pKa is 9.2. Timolol maleate is in a crystalline form and no other polymorph forms has been reported or 
observed. It contains one chiral centre and the form used is the (S)-enantiomer. 
With the exception of new batch analysis data the information is the same as that approved in the MA 
for DuoTrav. 
•  Manufacture 
Regarding the description of manufacturing process and process controls, control of materials, critical 
steps and intermediates, process validation and manufacturing process development reference is made 
to the CEP No. R1-CEP 1998-147-Rev 02, which covers all of these aspects. 
•  Specification 
The active substance is controlled according to the requirements of the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
Additional requirements for bioburden and related substances are included in the specifications. The 
residual solvent acetone is controlled by the test for loss on drying. The additional requirements for 
related substances are as reported in the CEP. 
The  specifications  for  the control  of timolol  maleate  includes tests  for  appearance  (visual,  thermal), 
identification  (PhEur:  IR,  TLC,  specific  optical  rotation  and  visual),  appearance  and  pH  of  solution 
(PhEur),  enantiomeric  purity  (PhEur),  related  substances  (PhEur),  chromatographic  purity  (HPLC), 
heavy  metals  (PhEur),  loss  on  drying  (PhEur),  sulphated  ash  (PhEur),  assay  (PhEur)  and  bioburden 
(PhEur). 
Metal  catalysts  are  not  used.  5  batches  were  screened  by  Alcon  and  all  results  were  within  the 
specified  levels  in  the  guideline  for  residues  of  metal  catalysts.  It  is  concluded  that  inorganic 
impurities are suitably controlled by the sulphated ash test. 
Batch results are provided for 4 batches used in the toxicological, clinical and stability studies of the 
AZARGA eye drops.  
•  Stability 
Stability studies have been evaluated by EDQM and reference is made to R1-CEP 1998-147-Rev 02. 
Re-test period and packaging are according to CEP. 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Only limited formulation development was required because: 1) the concentrations of the actives are 
the  same  as  in  Azopt  Eye  Drops  and  DuoTrav  Eye  Drops;  and  2)  the  selection  of  the  excipients  is 
Page 8/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
based upon those in Azopt Eye Drops. The concentrations of the excipients used in AZARGA are the 
same as those in Azopt Eye Drops, except for sodium chloride which is slightly reduced to achieve the 
desired  osmolality  range.  BAC  is  the  antimicrobial  preservative  agent  widely  used  in  topical 
ophthalmics at this concentration; EDTA is used as a preservative aid. 
The  formulation  used  in  clinical  trials  is  the  same  as  the  one  intended  for  marketing  with  a  minor 
difference in brinzolamide overage. 
A 2% overage of the suspended brinzolamide drug substance is included in AZARGA to compensate 
for  potential  losses  during  manufacturing.  Potential  loss  during  manufacturing  was  documented  by 
batch analysis results for brinzolamide assay in the primary stability batches demonstrating that a 2% 
overage of brinzolamide is appropriate. 
AZARGA  is  formulated  at  a  pH  of  approximately  7.2  and  is  isotonic.  Because  of  brinzolamide’s 
limited solubility at physiologic pH and room temperature, a suspension dosage form was designed. 
Alcon  has  further  evaluated  three  key  characteristics  (particle  size,  polymorphism  and  uniformity/ 
homogeneity  of  dose)  during  development.  Polymorphism  of  timolol  maleate  has  been  studied,  but 
polymorphism and particle size of timolol maleate is not issues since it is in solution. 
Particle size is determined by the milling step applied during manufacture of the finished dosage form. 
A  validated  HIAC  method  is  used  in  the  evaluation  of  particle  size  distribution.  The  particle  size 
distribution does not change during stability studies. Experience with other eye drops shows that the 
proposed specification is well tolerated.  
Polymorphism of brinzolamide has been studied extensively and the results strongly indicate that the 
formation of polymorphs in the suspension is not likely to occur. 
Finally,  AZARGA  has  been  developed  to  be  a  homogeneous  suspension  which  shows  minimal 
sedimentation  and  is  easily  resuspendable.  The  resuspendability  has  been  assessed  on  the  primary 
stability  batches and  the  product  is consistently  resuspended  within  five  seconds.  The  uniformity  of 
dose delivered in one drop has been tested for both drug substances and the uniformity was confirmed. 
Results  on intra-  and  inter-batch  variability  in  homogeneity  confirmed  uniformity  of  content  for  the 
two drug substances. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  AZARGA  was  chosen  to  provide  an  adequate  level  of  sterility 
assurance while maintaining the safety, efficacy and stability of the product. The procedure selected is 
based  upon  the  approved  manufacturing  process  for  Azopt  Eye  Drops,  with  the  exception  of  the 
separate addition of timolol maleate.  
A  drop  size  study  was  conducted  to  simulate  patient  use  of  AZARGA.  An  average  drop  size  of 
33µl+2.2 µl was obtained. 
The  bottles  and  plugs  will  be  sterilised  by  gamma  irradiation  since  it  is  an  effective  process  and  is 
compatible  with  these  packaging  components.  Closures  will  be  sterilised  by  exposure  to  ethylene 
oxide.  Ethylene  oxide sterilisation  of the  closures  is needed  since a  gamma  sterilised  polypropylene 
resin which meets Ph. Eur. requirements has not been identified for this packaging configuration. The 
EtO process is compatible with the closures. 
The  packaging  material  has  been  used  for  numerous  ophthalmic  products  and  does  not  produce 
significant  levels  of  extractables/leachables;  as  indicated  by  a  study  carried  out  to  evaluate  them.  It 
also provides sufficient photo protection to the light sensitive timolol. 
The  antimicrobial  effectiveness  of  AZARGA  has  been  determined  using  an  organism  challenge 
approach based on the methods described in Ph.Eur and was validated. Samples exhibited acceptable 
activity against gram-positive, gram negative, yeast and mold. AZARGA meets Ph.Eur. criteria after 
52 weeks of storage at room temperature. 
The  efficacy  of  the  preservative  system  has  also  been  proven  for  a  formulation  containing  the 
concentrations of the preservative and preservative aids at their lower limit of shelf life specification 
(80%). 
Sterility  test  results  initially  and  following  storage  for  up  to  52  weeks  at  25°C  for  three  primary 
stability lots show that Ph. Eur. 2.6.1. Sterility Test requirements are met by AZARGA Eye Drops. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients used in the drug product are of human or animal origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process selected is based upon the approved manufacturing process for Azopt, with 
the exception of the separate addition of timolol maleate. It consists of the following six steps: 
Page 9/47 
 
 
1. Preparation of the brinzolamide milling slurry 
2. Preparation of carbomer slurry/vehicle concentrate 
3. Preparation and addition of timolol maleate  
4. Aseptic addition of milling slurry 
5. Sterile filling 
6. Secondary packaging 
The sterilisation method is a combination of steam sterilisation, Gamma sterilisation, Ethylene Oxide 
sterilisation during the various steps of the manufacturing process. The sterility of the finished product 
is achieved by employing aseptic techniques and sterile filling at the last steps of the process.  
Sterility  issues  including  sterilisation  procedures,  and  aseptic  procedures,  critical  steps  and  holding 
times  are  adequately  addressed  and  justified.  The  residual  content  of  ethylene  oxide  and  ethylene 
chlorohydrin will be below the limits specified in the guideline on Limitations to the use of Ethylene 
Oxide  in  the  Manufacture  of  Medicinal  Products.  The  milling  process  and  uniformity  of  the 
suspension during filling has been justified and documented. The process validation is supported by 
batch data on 3 production scale batches. 
•  Product Specification 
The specification for batch release and shelf-life include the following tests: brinzolamide identity 
(TLC/HPLC), brinzolamide assay (HPLC), brinzolamide impurities (HPLC), timolol identity 
(TLC/HPLC), timolol assay (HPLC), timolol impurities (HPLC), any single unspecified impurity 
(HPLC), total impurities (HPLC),  benzalkonium chloride identity (HPLC), benzalkonium chloride 
assay (HPLC), disodium edetate identity (HPLC), disodium edetate assay (HPLC), pH (Ph. Eur), 
osmolality (Ph. Eur), appearance (visual), viscosity (Ph. Eur), redispersibility (mechanical), particle 
size (HIAC), Sterility (PhEur) and  fill volume. 
Batch  analyses  data  are  reported  from  three  production  scale  batches.  Analytical  data  of  smaller 
batches  used  in  toxicology  and  clinical  evaluation  were  also  included.  The  results  comply  with  the 
specification and confirm consistency of the product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  first  3  production  scale  batches  of  the  product  have  been  put  on  stability  and  they  are  tested 
according to the stability protocol. The three batches have been stored at 25ºC/40% RH for 18 months, 
at 30°C/65% RH for 18 months and at 40ºC/25% RH for 6 months in the proposed market packaging. 
The containers were stored in the horizontal position. The applicant committed to continue all ongoing 
stability studies until protocol completion. 
Photostability was part of the stability study on the 3 primary stability batches. Samples were stored in 
a light cabinet with or without secondary packaging for 6 weeks under specified conditions. Results 
showed the drug product is sensitive to extreme light condition; however it is not enough to warrant 
any special storage declaration. 
In-use  stability:  In-use  stability  was  studied  on  two  primary  stability  batches  (at  25˚C/40%RH/12 
months) in accordance with the guideline on In-use Stability Testing of Human Medicinal Products. 
One  drop  twice  per  day  was  dispensed  from  each  bottle  for  a  period  of  30  days.  Full  physical  and 
chemical testing was conducted initially and at the end of the 30 day period. No significant differences 
were seen from the initial to the 30 day time point.  
Four drops per day from each of 10 containers were expelled and at the end of a 30 day period the 
remaining  product  was  tested  for  total  viable  microbial  count  in  accordance  with  EP.  No  viable 
bacteria or fungi were detected.  
Page 10/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  AZARGA  eye  drops  suspension  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  sufficient 
chemical and pharmaceutical documentation relating to development, manufacture and control of the 
drug substance and drug product has been presented. There are no major deviations from EU and ICH 
requirements. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of all the 
important product quality characteristics. At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of 
minor  unresolved  quality  issues  having  no  impact  on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The 
applicant submitted a Letter of Undertaking dated 22 September 2008 and committed to resolve these 
as Follow-Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
It can be safely concluded that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the 
clinic.  
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
AZARGA  is  a  fixed  combination  of  compounds  already  approved  as  co-administration  therapy. 
Moreover, patient exposure to brinzolamide and timolol for AZARGA is approximately the same as 
for the above-mentioned products. In such cases, there is generally no need for additional non-clinical 
studies (CPMP/EWP/240/95).  
Since Azopt and DuoTrav were developed by the same Applicant, substantial parts of the non-clinical 
dossier on AZARGA are identical to those that were submitted to and reviewed on behalf of CHMP in 
the  course  of  the  approval  of  Azopt  and  DuoTrav  in  2000  and  2006,  respectively.  In  addition,  the 
Applicant  has  conducted  new  studies  addressing  the  uptake  of  the  active  substances  from,  and  the 
safety of, the proposed fixed combination product following topical application to the eyes of rabbits. 
Pharmacology 
The  fixed  combination  of  brinzolamide  and  timolol  has  not  been  tested  in  any  non-clinical 
pharmacology  studies.  This  is  accepted  as  the  active  ingredients  are  already  approved  for  co-
administration therapy. 
Pharmacokinetics 
All  new  kinetic  studies  employed  validated  methods  of  analysis  using  ultraperformance  liquid 
chromatography (UPLC) with ultraviolet (UV) detection for the determination of brinzolamide and an 
HPLC tandem mass spectrometry method for the determination of timolol. 
Systemic  absorption  of  AZARGA  was  evaluated  in  the  course  of  a  9-month  chronic  topical  ocular 
irritation  and  systemic  toxicity  study  of  brinzolamide/timolol  eye  drops  in  the  rabbit,  suspensions 
following nominal daily doses of 1.6, 2.4 and 4.8 mg brinzolamide and 0.8, 1.2 and 1.2 mg timolol. 
The  maximum  mean  brinzolamide  and  timolol  concentrations  at  the  end  of  treatment  were  6.84  ± 
0.699 µg/ml and 10.7 ± 4.19 ng/ml, respectively. Brinzolamide exposure (Cmax and AUC0-2h) in whole 
blood increased from Day 1 to Day 92. Exposure from Day 92 to Day 273 did not change substantially 
indicating  steady-state  had  been  achieved  for  brinzolamide  by  Day  92.  Timolol  exposure  (Cmax  and 
AUC0-2h) was essentially unchanged from Day 1 to Day 273 suggesting that no accumulation occurred 
and steady-state was achieved.  
In a 2-week ocular uptake study in New Zealand White rabbits following topical ocular administration 
of AZARGA, Azopt or timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution, the AUC0-6h values for brinzolamide in 
whole blood were significantly different (p < 0.05) different for AZARGA at 89% of those found for 
Azopt,  whereas  timolol  plasma  levels  were  almost  double  in  the  group  dosed  with  AZARGA  as 
compared to the group dosed with timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution. The latter finding was not 
reproduced in humans, however, and is unlikely to be clinically relevant. 
Page 11/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the ocular uptake study referred to above, the AUC0-6h values for brinzolamide in iris-ciliary body 
were significantly (p < 0.05) different for AZARGA at 124% of those found for Azopt, whereas the 
AUC0-6h  values  for  cornea  and  aqueous  humour  and  all  Cmax  values  demonstrated  no  statistically 
significant  differences.  Mean  N-desethyl  brinzolamide  concentrations  were  below  the  limits  of 
quantification  at  all  time  points  for  all  tissues.  Timolol  ocular  exposures  (Cmax  and  AUC0-6h)  were 
approximately 3-fold higher for AZARGA as compared to timolol 5 mg/ml, reflecting greater ocular 
absorption  of  timolol  for  the  combination.  Similar results  were  observed  in a  preliminary,  non-GLP 
study. 
No new metabolism studies, excretion studies or interaction studies of AZARGA with other medicinal 
products have been submitted. This is accepted as the active ingredients are already approved for co-
administration therapy. 
Toxicology 
No single-dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, reproductive toxicity, antigenicity or metabolite 
studies have been conducted with the fixed combination of brinzolamide and timolol. This is accepted 
as the active ingredients are already approved for co-administration therapy. 
The proposed fixed combination of brinzolamide and timolol was tested in three topical ocular repeat-
dose toxicity studies in albino and pigmented rabbits administered 1 drop to each eye up to 3 times a 
day for up to 9 months of either vehicle, AZARGA, or brinzolamide 20 mg/ml + timolol, 5 mg/ml eye 
drops, suspension. None of these studies revealed any signs of systemic or ocular toxicity other than a 
very slight to slight (5-10%) increase in corneal thickness in all dose groups with no relation to dose. 
A  similar  increase  in  corneal  thickness  was  observed  in  rabbits  following  1,  3  and  6  months  of 
treatment with Azopt (brinzolamide eye drops), whereas brinzolamide did not cause significant change 
in corneal thickness in a 1-year topical ocular study in monkeys.  
There are no new impurities or specifications for brinzolamide or timolol relative to those pertaining 
to Azopt and DuoTrav. Thus, no further studies were performed.  
As a rule, photosafety testing is required for drug substances absorbing in the range of 290-700 nm. 
Since  brinzolamide  absorbs  at  252  nm,  no  testing  was  performed.  Timolol  has  peak  absorption  at 
maximum wavelengths of 210 nm and 294 nm. Formal photosafety studies have not been performed 
and  are  not  considered  necessary,  given  the  absence  of  relevant  signals  in  spite  of  the  extensive 
clinical use of timolol for topical ocular treatment and the marginal trespassing of the 290 nm cut-off. 
Based on the estimation of exposure and calculation of the PEC (Predicted Environmental 
Concentration) AZARGA is unlikely to pose any perceivable risk to the environment. 
Page 12/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
An overview of the main clinical studies conducted with AZARGA is shown below: 
Clinical Development Plan for AZARGA 
Protocol 
Type 
(No.) 
Safety/Efficacy 
C-97-22 
Topical PK 
C-05-27 
Comfort 
C-05-49 
Pivotal 
Safety/Efficacy 
C-05-24 
Pivotal 
Safety/Efficacy 
C-05-10 
Study 
Design 
Subject/Patient 
Population 
Treatment 
Groups 
Dosing 
Regimena 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 3 
way crossover 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
Adults, primary open-
angle glaucoma or 
ocular hypertension 
Healthy adults 
Adults, open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
Adults, open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
Adults, open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
•  AZARGA 
•  Timolol  
•  AZARGA 
•  Azopt 
•  Timolol  
•  AZARGA  
•  Cosopt 
•  AZARGA 
•  Azopt 
•  Timolol  
•  AZARGA 
•  Cosopt 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BIDb 
•  1 drop BIDb 
•  1 drop BIDc 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop BID 
Dosing 
Duration 
2 weeks 
Total No. Randomised: 
Total No. Exposed to 
AZARGA 
66 total: 
33 AZARGA 
15 weeks (2 weeks oral + 13 
weeks topical ocular) 
87 total: 
26 AZARGA 
1 week 
6 months 
12 months 
(6 months + 6 months) 
Total Subject/Patient Exposure 
95d total: 
48 AZARGA 
523 total: 
174 AZARGA 
437 total: 
220 AZARGA 
1203e total: 
501 AZARGA 
In the affected eye(s) 
a 
b  Oral administration of 1 capsule of brinzolamide 1 mg BID for the first 2 weeks 
c  Oral administration of 1 capsule of Placebo BID for the first 2 weeks 
d  96 subjects were randomised but 1 never received the study medication 
e  This total only includes topical ocular dosing.  Patients in protocol C-05-27 received either brinzolamide 1 mg capsules or placebo capsules before they were randomised to the topical ocular 
Timolol = 
phase.  Five patients in C-05-27 were not randomised into the topical ocular phase of the study and are therefore not reflected in the total number of patients. BID = twice daily 
Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution  Cosopt = dorzolamide  20 mg/ml + Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
  AZARGA = Brinzolamide 10 mg/ml + Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension 
Page 13/47 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP, as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The applicant has performed one comparative study (C-05-27) in healthy volunteers on the PK of the 
fixed  combination  product  AZARGA  as  compared  to  individual  products  timolol  and  brinzolamide 
alone. The aim of the study was to compare the steady state pharmacokinetics of brinzolamide and its 
primary  N-desethyl  metabolite  in  whole  blood,  and  of  timolol  in  plasma  following  topical 
administration. The results demonstrate that no differences in Cmax or AUC are seen for brinzolamide 
or its metabolite comparing the fixed dose combination to brinzolamide alone. For timolol, systemic 
exposure  is  about  32%  lower  when  applied  as  the  fixed  combination  product  compared  to  timolol 
alone.  There  is  no  apparent  or  plausible  explanation  for  this  finding.  This  is  very  unlikely  to  be  of 
clinical  relevance.  The  PK  of  the  fixed  combination  has  not  been  studied  in  special  populations. 
Gender  differences  found  for  the  fixed  combination  product  is  of  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as 
documented for the Azopt formulation and unlikely to be of clinical relevance. 
There are no adopted guidelines for PK of fixed combinations of approved medicinal products, but the 
study performed is adequate and in accordance with suggestions in a draft guideline published at the 
time of submission.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Brinzolamide is a potent inhibitor of human carbonic anhydrase II (CA-II). Inhibition of the carbonic 
anhydrase  in  the  ciliary  processes  of  the  eye  decreases  aqueous  humor  secretion,  presumably  by 
slowing production of bicarbonate ions and subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport. 
Timolol maleate is a non-selective beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking agent. When applied topically to 
the eye, it reduces elevated, as well as normal, intraocular pressure. The exact mechanism of action of 
this  ocular  hypotensive  action  is  not  clearly  established  at  this  time.  It  is  suggested  that  its 
predominant action may be related to reducing aqueous humour formation; however, in some studies a 
slight increase in outflow facility has been observed.  
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development plan included 5 clinical trials (see table): a pilot safety/efficacy trial (C-97-
22),  a  pharmacokinetic  trial,  an  ocular  comfort  trial  (C-05-49)  and  2  long-term  pivotal  safety  and 
efficacy trials (Studies C-05-24 and C-05-10). Two further studies were currently ongoing at the time 
of  application.  Study  C-07-16  compared  the  effects  of  AZARGA  and  Combigan  (brimonidine  plus 
timolol)  on  ocular  blood  flow  and  ocular  perfusion  pressure,  and  Study  C-07-47  evaluates  patients 
preference AZARGA compared to Cosopt (dorzolamide plus timolol) based on ocular comfort.  
The initially proposed therapeutic indication for AZARGA was: 
Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction or is not well tolerated (see 
section 5.1) 
After evaluation of the results of the submitted clinical trials (see discussion below), the indication has 
been reworded as 
Page 14/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction (see section 5.1)” 
as it was not the intention of the clinical trials carried out with AZARGA to show a benefit in patients 
not  tolerant  to  their  current  IOP  medication.  Furthermore,  patients  being  treated  with  monotherapy 
who are not tolerant to their medication may switch to a different active substance in monotherapy as 
well before starting a combination product. 
Dose response studies 
Dosing of AZARGA is based on that of the individual approved, marketed products.  
This  fixed  dose  combination  contains  the  two  active  components,  i.e.  brinzolamide  and  timolol 
maleate  and,  since  they  are  believed  to  have  different  mechanism  of  action,  it  is  plausible  that  a 
combined effect results in additional IOP reduction compared to either compound administered alone. 
The  submitted  programme  might  have  included  a  comparison  between  the  single  components 
administered adjunctively versus the fixed combination. However, the adjunctive use of timolol with 
brinzolamide is well established. This was based on 4 trials in the original Azopt dossier: C-93-86, C-
95-38,  C-95-39,  and  C-97-27,  in  which  the  efficacy  of  the  unfixed  combination  of  brinzolamide  10 
mg/ml Eye Drops (Azopt) and timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops was evaluated. 
The  results  are  reflected  in  the  approved  therapeutic  indication  of  Azopt:  Azopt  is  indicated  to 
decrease elevated intraocular pressure in: 
• ocular hypertension 
• open-angle glaucoma 
as monotherapy in patients unresponsive to beta-blockers or in patients in whom beta-blockers are 
contraindicated, or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers. 
Studies  conducted  with  the  co-administered  products  showed  efficacy  with  no  increase  in  the 
incidence of adverse events reported for the individual components and thus the proposed dosage for 
the fixed combination appears reasonable and was supported by pivotal studies results.  
Main studies 
This section of the application summarizes the clinical efficacy data of the 3 studies (C-97-22, C-05-
24, and C-05-10) conducted to establish the IOP-lowering efficacy and safety in patients with open-
angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.  C-05-24  and  C-05-10  are  the  2  pivotal  studies  in  this 
application demonstrating the efficacy of AZARGA, while Study C-97-22 was a pilot study.   
Methods 
• 
Study Participants  
The study population consisted of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
A summary of the patient demographics (age, gender, race, iris colour, diagnosis) for each of the 4 
studies relevant to the evaluation of the efficacy and comfort of AZARGA is provided in the table 
below:  
Page 15/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient Demographics 
(Intent-to-Treat Data) 
C-97-22  C-05-24  C-05-10  C-05-49 
Total No. Patients in ITT Dataset
Race 
Age 
Sex 
Eye Colour 
Diagnosis 
Caucasian 
Black 
Asian 
Hispanic 
Other 
Mean Age (years) 
≥18 and <65 years 
≥ 65 years 
Male 
Female 
Brown 
Hazel 
Green 
Blue 
Grey 
Ocular Hypertension 
Open-Angle Glaucoma 
Pigmentary Glaucoma 
Pseudoexfoliation 
Glaucoma 
Angle closure Glaucoma 
66 
45 
4 
N/A 
N/A 
17 
60.8 
40 
26 
19 
47 
35 
16 
2 
13 
0 
6 
58 
1 
1 
0 
517 
349 
91 
7 
66 
4 
62.8 
286 
231 
221 
296 
287 
82 
19 
121 
8 
189 
311 
10 
7 
0 
431 
314 
59 
19 
36 
3 
64.9 
195 
236 
180 
251 
199 
42 
24 
136 
30 
105 
285 
13 
27 
1 
95 
62 
17 
1 
15 
0 
67.6 
37 
58 
33 
62 
49 
19 
7 
20 
0 
31 
62 
2 
0 
0 
Total 
1109 
770 
171 
27 
117 
24 
64.0 
558 
551 
453 
656 
570 
159 
52 
290 
38 
331 
716 
26 
35 
1 
Overall, these demographics are representative of the population that would be expected to receive this 
medicinal product. 
In order to establish an off-therapy IOP baseline, patients were required to discontinue use of all IOP-
lowering  medications  for  a  minimum  period  of  5  days  (±  1  day)  to  28  days  (±  1  day)  prior  to 
Eligibility 1 Visit. The duration of washout was based on the duration of action and drug half-life of 
the medications and was consistent with published studies.  
The  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  were  chosen  to  provide  similar  patient  groups  across  the  2 pivotal 
efficacy studies, with the exception of the IOP entry criteria and the washout requirements.  
•  Adult patients of either sex and of any race diagnosed with open-angle glaucoma (with or 
without pseudoexfoliation or pigment dispersion component) or ocular hypertension. 
•  Patients who wore contact lenses were allowed to participate in the study (except in C-97-22 
and C-05-49), provided that the contact lenses were removed before instillation of study 
medication.  The patients were instructed to wait 15 minutes following drug instillation before 
re-inserting their lenses. 
•  Patients were required to discontinue use of all IOP-lowering medications for a minimum 
period of 5 days (± 1 day) to 28 days (± 1 day) prior to Eligibility 1 Visit.  
The exclusion criteria respected the contraindications for the single components of the study drugs.  
Patients less than 18 years of age (21 years of age in C-97-22) were excluded from participation in the 
clinical  trials  because  elevated  IOP  in  a  paediatric  population  has  a  different  aetiology  and  is  more 
difficult to treat than in adults.  
Page 16/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to study entry, patients were screened and discontinued their anti-glaucoma medication, if any. A 
wash-out period corresponding to the single anti glaucoma agents had been defined. 
The following limits were used: Miotics, systemic and topical CAIs: 5 days; α and α/β- agonists: 14 
days; and β-blockers and prostaglandin analogues: 28 days. Thus, baseline IOP values represent off-
therapy values, except in Study C-97-22, where patients insufficiently treated on timolol (BID in open 
label monotherapy) were selected. 
Pre-Study IOP-Lowering Medications in AZARGA  
Pivotal Studies (C-05-24 and C-05-10) 
Number of 
Medications 
0 
1 
2 
3 or 4 
All Studies 
(N=943) 
C-05-24 
(N=511b) 
C-05-10 
(N=432a) 
N 
127 
614 
162 
40 
% 
13.5 
65.1 
17.2 
4.2 
N 
125 
304 
60 
22 
% 
24.5 
59.5 
11.7 
4.3 
N 
2 
310 
102 
18 
% 
0.5 
71.8 
23.6 
4.2 
a Pre-study medications for 5 patients did not satisfy criteria for inclusion in C-05-10 analysis 
b Pre-study medications for 12 patients did not satisfy criteria for inclusion in C-05-24 analysis 
Pre-Study IOP-Lowering Monotherapy in AZARGA  
Pivotal Studies (C-05-24 and C-05-10) 
All Studies 
(N=943) 
C-05-24 
(N=511b) 
C-05-10 
(N=432a) 
Medication Type 
Beta-Blocker 
CAIc 
Prostaglandin 
Alpha-Agonist 
N 
166 
41 
373 
32 
% 
17.6 
4.3 
39.6 
3.4 
N 
70 
15 
199 
19 
% 
13.7 
2.9 
38.9 
3.7 
N 
96 
26 
174 
13 
% 
22.2 
6.0 
40.3 
3.0 
a Pre-study medications for 5 patients did not satisfy criteria for inclusion in C-05-10 analysis 
b Pre-study medications for 12 patients did not satisfy criteria for inclusion in C-05-24 analysis 
c Carbonic anhydrase inhibitor  
The IOP to qualify for entry into the efficacy studies is presented below.  
Following washout of the previous IOP-lowering  medications, patients must have  met the following 
IOP entry criteria in two different visits in at least one treated eye: an upper IOP limit of 36 mmHg, 
chosen for safety reasons, and a lower limit that varied across studies and ranged from 22 (pilot study) 
to 24 (pivotal studies) at 8AM. The pilot study required patients to have insufficient control while on 
timolol treatment to be randomised. Study C-02-24 (contribution of elements) did not require patients 
to be insufficient responsive to another IOP lowering medication while Study C-05-10 (non-inferiority 
trial)  made  some  restrictions  in  this  regard:  only  patients  who  could  benefit  from  a  combination 
therapy in the investigator’s opinion where allowed for study entry. 
Page 17/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualifying IOP for Studies C-97-22, C-05-24 and C-05-10 
Qualifying IOPa  (mmHg) 
Study 
C-97-22b 
C-05-24 
8 AM 
22 to 36 
24 to 36 
Eligibility Visit 1 
10 AM 
22 to 36 
21 to 36 
4 PMc 
N.A. 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
8 AM 
22 to 36 
Eligibility Visit 2 
10 AM 
22 to 36 
24 to 36 
21 to 36 
4 PMc 
N/A 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
C-05-10 
a  IOP in the qualifying eye(s) following washout (except in C-97-22).  Neither eye could have an IOP > 
21 to 36 
24 to 36 
24 to 36 
21 to 36 
36 mmHg at any time point or visit  
b IOP after patients had a minimum 3-week Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops run-in 
c The same criteria applied to the 12 Noon and 8 PM visits in study C-05-24 
N/A = Not applicable 
With  the  exception  of  the  IOP  entry  criteria  and  the  washout  requirements,  most  inclusion  criteria 
were  common  across  efficacy  studies  (C-97-22,  C-05-24  and  C-05-10):  Adult  patients  of  either  sex 
and of any race diagnosed with open-angle glaucoma (with or without pseudoexfoliation or pigment 
dispersion component) or ocular hypertension.  
• 
Objectives 
The  therapeutic  usefulness  of  the  combination  Brinzolamide  plus  Timolol  has  been  previously 
demonstrated  by  means  of  the  studies  that  supported  the  concomitant  use  of  both  drugs  during  the 
MAA for these drugs. The current clinical development programme aimed to support the advantages 
of a fixed dose combination product and relied on two pivotal studies intended to prove efficacy by 
means  of  a  contribution  of  elements  study  and  comparative  efficacy/safety  against  a  reference 
treatment, which followed the recommendations stated in the CPMP/EWP/240/95 Rev. 1 Guideline on 
fixed  combination  medicinal  products.  Overall,  studies  designs  were  similar  to  previous  studies 
performed  in  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  to  support  the  MAA  of  different  IOP- 
lowering medications and thus, were considered adequate. 
• 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint: Mean IOP was the primary efficacy parameter.  
Secondary endpoints: The proportion of patients with IOP less than 18 mmHg at selected or all time 
points was a secondary variable in order to assess clinical relevance of therapy for individual patients 
in the 2 pivotal studies (C-05-24 and C-05-10).  Mean change in IOP and mean percent change in IOP 
from baseline were used as secondary variables because they are alternate endpoints that take baseline 
IOP into account.   
IOP was measured at least at 2 time points during the day (8 AM and 10 AM) at all study visits for the 
2 pivotal efficacy trials (C-05-24 and C-05-10), while further time points (12 Noon, 4 PM and 8 PM) 
were measured at some of the visits or some of the sites in these studies. 
The 4 PM time point represents the latest practical time point in the day at which IOP can be measured 
in large-scale clinical trials. It represents an 8-hour trough effect for Timolol and Brinzolamide dosed 
in the morning as single agents or in combination. The 4 PM time point was measured in all patients at 
key visits in Study C-05-10 (Baseline, Month 6, Month 12) and in Study C-05-24 (Baseline, Month 3, 
Month 6, at selected sites). 
Additionally, at selected sites in Study C-05-24, IOP was measured at 2 further time points, 12 Noon 
and 8 PM. This allowed an evaluation of the efficacy of AZARGA over an extended diurnal curve. 
• 
Statistical methods 
Page 18/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If both eyes were dosed, the worse evaluable eye was selected for analysis.  
Per  protocol  data  and  intent-to-treat  results  are  provided  for  all  efficacy  studies.  For  non-inferiority 
hypotheses,  per  protocol  data  were  considered  primary,  while  for  superiority  hypotheses,  intent-to-
treat data were considered primary. In all cases, results from both data sets are included to demonstrate 
robustness of the efficacy findings. 
All patients who received study medication and had at least 1 on therapy study visit were considered 
evaluable for the intent-to-treat analysis. All patients who received study medication, had at least 1 on-
therapy  study  visit  and  satisfied  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  were  considered  evaluable  for  the  per 
protocol analysis. The intent-to-treat data sets include imputed values for all missing data, including 
those  for  patients  who  were  early  discontinuations  if  on-therapy  data  were  available.  Baseline  (pre-
randomization) values were not carried forward. No imputation for missing data was performed in the 
per protocol data sets. Thus comparisons of per protocol and intent-to-treat AZARGA results evaluate 
the robustness of the result with regard to truncated observations and missing data. 
In the long-term pivotal study that tested non-inferiority as the primary statistical objective (C-05-10), 
a criterion of 1.5 mmHg difference was used.  
In the pilot study (C-97-22), only descriptive statistics were provided, based on the intent-to treat data. 
• 
Design and Results of Individual Studies 
Study C-97-22 Pilot Safety/Efficacy Study 
Study  C-97-22,  conducted  in  the  USA,  was  designed  as  a  double-masked,  parallel  trial  with  2 
treatment  groups:  AZARGA  dosed  BID  or  Timolol  5  mg/ml  Eye  Drops  dosed  BID.  The  study 
population  consisted  of  patients  with  primary  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  who 
demonstrated a need for combination therapy. After a minimum 3-week run-in on open-label Timolol 
5 mg/ml Eye Drops BID, patients must have had on-therapy IOPs of at least 22 mmHg in at least 1 eye 
(the same eye) at 8 AM (after 8 PM dosing at with Timolol 5mg/ml Eye Drops) and 10 AM (after 8 
AM dosing with Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops) at both Eligibility Visits 1 and 2. The IOP could not be 
greater than 36 mmHg in  either eye at any time point. If these IOP criteria were met, patients were 
randomized  to  receive  either  AZARGA  dosed  BID  or  Timolol  5  mg/ml  Eye  Drops  dosed  BID. 
Patients instilled masked medication in both eyes at 8 AM and 8 PM throughout the 2-week Treatment 
Phase. The treatment Phase consisted of 3 visits (Day 1, Day 7 and Day 14) during which IOP was 
measured at 5 time points. 
Of  the  66  enrolled  patients  (33  on  AZARGA  and  33  on  Timolol  5  mg/ml  Eye  Drops),  all  were 
evaluable for the intent-to-treat analyses (ITT) and 63 (33 on AZARGA and 30 on Timolol 5 mg/ml 
Eye Drops) were evaluable for the PP analyses. The PP analysis served as the basis for the assessment 
of efficacy. After a 3-week run-in on open-label Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops dosed BID, mean IOP 
reductions  from  baseline  across  the  5  on-therapy  time  points  ranged  from  2.8  to  3.3  mmHg  for 
AZARGA and from 1.4 to 2.4 mmHg for Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops.  
All  mean  IOP  reductions  from  baseline  were  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant 
(p≤0.0005).  Statistically  significant  differences  in  mean  IOP  change  from  baseline  (p≤0.0413)  were 
observed between the 2 treatment groups at all but the Day 7 10 AM time point (mean reduction in 
IOP  was  numerically  superior  for  the  AZARGA  group  3.3  mmHg  versus  2.3  mmHg,  p=0.0679).  
Similar results were observed for the intent-to-treat analysis. 
Page 19/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The design of this pilot study was similar to that previously performed with the unfixed combination 
(Study C-93-86). It is noted that a 3-week run-in on timolol appears limited to achieve the maximum 
effect,  which  is  substantiated  by  the  additional  IOP  decrease  in  the  timolol  group  during  the 
randomised  period.  Despite  that,  statistically  significant  differences  over  timolol  were  found,  with 
mean IOP decreases from 2.8 to 3.4 in the AZARGA treatment group as compared to 1.4 to 2.4 in the 
timolol group.   
The  magnitude  of  the  observed  effect  at  2-weeks  was,  however,  slightly  lower  in  both  treatment 
groups to that previously seen (from 3.3 to 4.6 mmHg in timolol+brinzolamide group vs from 0.9 to 
2.00 mmHg in the timolol group), which might be explained by the fact that patients with lower IOP 
values at baseline while on timolol were allowed for inclusion. The possible contribution of a lower 
exposure  to  timolol  in  the  AZARGA  group  as  compared  to  timolol  monotherapy  can  not  be  firmly 
ruled out. 
Despite these considerations, the aim of a pilot study, i.e. a preliminary estimation of the effect with 
the fixed combination, was reached and the results supported going throughout the established phase 
III development plan.  
Contribution of Elements – Study C-05-24 Pivotal Safety/Efficacy Study  
Study C-05-24 was designed to compare the safety and IOP-lowering efficacy of AZARGA 
(brinzolamide/timolol, fixed combination) to the individual components, i.e. Timolol 5 mg/ml dosed 
and Azopt dosed twice daily in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The study 
was a multicenter, double-masked, parallel group trial. 
The primary outcome was the mean IOP at 8 am and 10 am at week 2, month 3 and month 6 visits. At 
selected sites (about 25 %) corresponding to approximately 33 % of the enrolled patients, the IOP was 
also assessed at 12 noon, 4 pm, and 8 pm. 
Secondary outcome was the percentage of patients who obtained and maintained < 18 mm Hg through 
all on-therapy visits. 
Following a washout period of the IOP previous medication, 523 patients who met IOP and additional 
selection criteria were randomly assigned to each of the three treatment groups. Of these, 517 
constituted the ITT population. Patients were followed for up to 6 months in a masked way.  
Page 20/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher proportion of patients discontinued study in the group of AZARGA as compared to Azopt 
and  Timolol  due  to  safety  reasons  (4.6%  vs  1.7%  and  3.4%,  respectively)  whilst  less  patients 
discontinued due to inadequate control of IOP (0.6% vs 8% and 1.7%, respectively).   
The results of this contribution of elements study showed statistically significant mean IOP reductions 
for all three treatment groups, which ranged from 8.0 to 8.7 mmHg for the AZARGA group, 5.1 to 5.6 
mmHg for the Azopt group and 5.7 to 6.9 mmHg for the timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops. Superiority of 
AZARGA over timolol and Azopt was demonstrated for each of the efficacy variables. The magnitude 
of  the  effect  was  consistent  with  previous  similar  studies  performed  with  the  unfixed  combination. 
Results of the responder analysis confirm the superiority and the clinical relevance of the benefit of the 
fixed  dose  combination  over  its  individual  components,  with  a  responder  rates  at  8AM,  the  most 
stringent  criteria,  at  6-month  visit  of  34.5%,  24.9%  and  16.2%  for  AZARGA,  timolol  and  Azopt, 
respectively.  
Results of the primary endpoint are illustrated in the figure below: 
Page 21/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  seen  below  in  the  next  tables,  the  difference  between  the  fixed  combination  and  Brinzolamide, 
respectively Timolol, is statistically significant as concerns the mean IOP. 
Page 22/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mean change in IOP from baseline is illustrated below: 
Page 23/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With all 3 therapies, a clinically and statistically significant reduction of the IOP was achieved, as seen 
in the  tables above. The  fixed  combination  was superior to the  single components in  decreasing  the 
IOP  at  all  on  therapy  visits  during  the  6  months  study  period  (p<0.005).  PP  results  were  consistent 
with ITT results, thus indicating robustness of the findings. 
The second endpoint depicted below shows no statistically significant difference, though the numeric 
values are consistently higher with the fixed combination than with Timolol monotherapy: 
In contrast, the second endpoint depicted below shows a statistically significant difference between the 
fixed combination and Brinzolamide monotherapy: 
Page 24/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  results  demonstrate  the  superiority  and  the  added  benefit  of  this  fixed  combination  in  the 
reduction of IOP in the target population with respect to the individual components.  
Comparative Study - C-05-10- Pivotal Safety/Efficacy Study  
Study C-05-10 was a multinational study conducted at 45 centers in Australia (5), Belgium (2), France 
(2), Italy (1), Latvia (2), Lithuania (1), Singapore (2), Sweden (1), Taiwan (1), United Kingdom (2), 
and United States (26). The study was designed to compare the IOP lowering efficacy and safety of 
AZARGA to that of a marketed fixed combination Cosopt (Dorzolamide 20 mg/ml + timolol 5 mg/ml 
Page 25/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eye  Drops,  Solution),  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  who  were  on 
treatment  for  IOP-lowering  and  who  could  benefit  from  a  combination  therapy  in  the  investigator´s 
view.  Both  medications  were  dosed  twice  daily,  at  8  AM  and  8  PM.  The  study  was  a  multicenter, 
double-masked, parallel group trial with a similar design to Study C-05-24.  
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  compare  the  safety  and  IOP-lowering  efficacy  of 
Brinzolamide 10 mg/ml + Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension to COSOPT in patients with open-
angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
The primary efficacy parameter was mean IOP at 8:00 AM, 10:00 AM (+2 hours post dose) and 4:00 
PM  (+8  hours  post  dose).  Primary  efficacy  analysis  was  based  on  the  Month  6  assessments  at  8:00 
AM, 10:00 AM and 4:00 PM. 
The  patients  continued  to  be  followed  for  up  to  an  additional  6  months  to  enable  the  collection  of 
additional safety information.  
Of  the  437  randomized  patients,  393  completed  the  study  and  44  (16  on  Brinzolamide  10  mg/ml  + 
timolol  5  mg/ml  Eye  Drops,  Suspension  and  28  on  Cosopt)  discontinued  prior  to  completion.  Six 
patients  were  excluded  from  the  overall  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  analysis  due  to  an  absence  of  any  on-
therapy efficacy data. Eighteen patients were excluded from the overall per protocol analysis due to 
the  following  reasons:  an  absence  of  any  on-therapy  efficacy  data  (6  patients),  use  of  an  excluded 
concomitant medication (1 patient), non-qualifying IOP at study entry (4 patients), patient not on IOP-
lowering  medication  at  study  entry  (3  patients),  patient  non-compliance  (1  patient),  inadequate 
washout from previous IOP-lowering medication (2 patients) and failure to meet inclusion criterion (1 
patient). 
Page 26/47 
 
 
 
Mean IOP at 8AM baseline were 27.3 mmHg (26.9-27.7 mmHg, 95%CI) in both treatment groups.   
Results of the primary endpoint are shown below: 
Page 27/47 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 28/47 
 
 
 
 
AZARGA produced IOP-lowering efficacy that was non-inferior to Cosopt. The per protocol analyses 
demonstrate  that  the  upper  95%  confidence  limits  were  within  +1.5  mmHg,  the  limit  of  clinical 
relevance used to establish non-inferiority in this study, at all study visits and times. The largest value 
observed for the upper 95% confidence limit was +1.4 mmHg in the per protocol analysis, and +1.3 
mmHg in the intent-to-treat analysis. 
Difference in mean IOP favoured AZARGA over Cosopt at 9 of 12 study visits and times and ranged 
from -0.6 mmHg to +0.7 mmHg in the per protocol analysis. Following dosing with AZARGA, mean 
IOP ranged from 17.0 mmHg to 18.6 mmHg. Following dosing with Cosopt, mean IOP ranged from 
17.2  to  19.3  mmHg.  Mean  IOP  reductions from  baseline  for  AZARGA  were  clinically  relevant  and 
statistically significant at all measurement times. The IOP reduction ranged from -7.2 to -9.2 mmHg 
for AZARGA and from -7.7 to -8.8 mmHg for Cosopt in the per protocol analysis. 
The  descriptive  results  for  mean  percent  IOP  change  show  that  the  mean  reductions  for  AZARGA 
equate to percent reductions ranging from 28.4% to 34.9% relative to baseline. 
The  clinical  relevance  of  the  IOP  reductions  was  demonstrated  by  the  percent  of  patients  in  each 
treatment  group  who  responded  to  treatment.  Patients  were  considered  to  have  a  clinically  relevant 
response to treatment at a visit if their IOP decreased to less than 18 mmHg at least 1 time point (when 
evaluated at each visit, up to 61% of patients in the AZARGA group and up to 59% of patient in the 
Cosopt group had IOP of less than 18 mmHg). At 6-month 8AM, the rate of responders were 40% and 
35.9%  in  AZARGA  and  Cosopt,  respectively.  These  percentages  were  maintained  at  9-month  8AM 
visit and the difference was even lower at 12-month (39% and 40%, respectively).  
Results were consistent between the per protocol and intent-to-treat analyses.  
Page 29/47 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Study IOP-Lowering Medications in AZARGA  
Pivotal Studies (C-05-24 and C-05-10) 
Number of 
Medications 
0 
1 
2 
3 or 4 
All Studies 
(N=943) 
C-05-24 
(N=511b) 
C-05-10 
(N=432a) 
N 
127 
614 
162 
40 
% 
13.5 
65.1 
17.2 
4.2 
N 
125 
304 
60 
22 
% 
24.5 
59.5 
11.7 
4.3 
N 
2 
310 
102 
18 
% 
0.5 
71.8 
23.6 
4.2 
a Pre-study medications for 5 patients did not satisfy criteria for inclusion in C-05-10 analysis 
b Pre-study medications for 12 patients did not satisfy criteria for inclusion in C-05-24 analysis 
In  Study  C-05-10  the  vast  majority  (71.8%)  of  patients  was  on  monotherapy  and  according  to  the 
investigator  judgment  could  benefit  from  a  combination  therapy.  Furthermore  at  study  recruitment, 
13.5 % of patients overall did not receive anti-glaucoma medication. It remains to be proven that these 
patients would need a combination therapy. A justification for that some (or any) of the patients would 
not be sufficiently controlled on a β-blocker – or on brinzolamide – in monotherapy, was missing. 
According to its SPC, the use of Cosopt should be restricted to patients with insufficient IOP response 
to  beta-blockers  and  thus,  one  might  consider  that  the  efficacy  of  Cosopt  in  such  a  broad  study 
population  is  unknown  and  so  the  comparison  is  unbalanced.  Even though  this  does  not  necessarily 
mean that patients were insufficiently responsive to previous treatment, this population represented the 
main  target  population  and  as  such,  it  was  considered  valid.  Patients  on  previous  treatment  with  2 
(N=102, 23.6%) or even 3 or 4 IOP-lowering drugs (N=18, 4.2%) were also included. These patients 
might also represent a subset of the target population. As a consequence, a broad second or even third 
line indication was initially sought.  
The CHMP raised a major objection on this point, and requested the Applicant to provide data on the 
type  of  previous  IOP  decreasing  medication  and  efficacy  results  for  the  sub-group  of  patients  for 
whom  there  is  general  agreement  on  being  considered  insufficient  responders  (i.e.  those  with  IOP-
values  ≥22  mm  Hg)  while  on  treatment  before  the  wash-out  phase.  The  answer  of  the  Applicant  is 
discussed below in the section “Analysis performed across trials”. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
In the initial application, neither pooled analyses nor meta-analysis have been presented.  
The answer of the Applicant to the Day 180 list of Outstanding issues showed that 113/417 patients 
(27.1 %), with IOP ≥ 22 mmHg did not receive any anti-glaucoma mediation at inclusion. This was 
driven by results from study C-05-24 in which the figure was 112/260 (43.1 %). This is a large number 
considering the usual approach for prescribing a combination drug. 
Page 30/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tables  3-3  and  3-4  provide  the  mean  IOP  and  IOP  change  from  baseline  results  for  patients  with 
Screening  IOP  ≥  22  mmHg  while  on  pre-study  medication(s)  for  studies  C-05-24  and  C-05-10, 
respectively. The results of these analyses demonstrate that the IOP-lowering efficacy of AZARGA in 
the  sub-population  of  patients  with  IOP  ≥  22  mmHg  while  on  pre-study  medication(s)  is  consistent 
with  that  of  the  total  population.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  results  of  the  comparisons  between 
AZARGA  and  Azopt  (Table  3-6),  and  between  AZARGA  and  timolol  (Table  3-7)  from  the 
contribution of elements study C-05-24, which demonstrate superiority of AZARGA at all time-points. 
Similarly, the results for study C-05-10 presented in Table 3-8 confirm that AZARGA is non-inferior 
to Cosopt in patients with Screening IOP ≥ 22 mmHg while on 1 or more IOP lowering medication(s).  
Table 3-3 
Page 31/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3-5 
Page 32/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After evaluation of the Applicant’s answer, it can be concluded that the efficacy of AZARGA eye 
drops in the subpopulation with an IOP ≥ 22 mmHg at inclusion and treated with at least one anti-
glaucoma medication is justified. The IOP decreasing effect of the eye drops in this population was 
consistent to what was observed for the full study population. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Paediatric patients 
Page 33/47 
 
 
 
 
 
No study has been conducted with AZARGA in paediatric patients. No paediatric investigation plan 
has been submitted. 
Paediatric data are available for AZOPT and timolol:  
In 1 clinical study (C-00-17), AZOPT was administered to 32 paediatric patients (1 week to 6 years of 
age). In this study, AZOPT effectively maintained or reduced IOP in paediatric patients with glaucoma 
or ocular hypertension. IOP-lowering efficacy was similar to that in adult patients and could provide 
benefit to those paediatric patients requiring IOP-lowering medication. These data have been assessed 
by the CHMP and a Type II  variation (No. II/0025) including the relevant information in the SPC / 
PIL was approved in June 2007.  
Furthermore,  the  Applicant  has  collected  data  on  71  paediatric  patients  (1  week  to  6  years  of  age) 
exposed to timolol Ophthalmic Gel Forming Solution, 2.5 or 5 mg/ml (Clinical Study C-01-01). In this 
study,  timolol  Ophthalmic  Gel  Forming  Solution,  2.5  and  5  mg/ml  effectively  reduced  IOP  in 
paediatric patients.  
Considering the lack of data, the proposal not to recommend the use of AZARGA in children below 
18 years due to a lack of data on safety and efficacy is considered acceptable. 
Other special populations 
No specific studies were conducted. 
Supportive studies 
Supportive evidence comes from co-administration studies. These studies had previously been 
submitted and assessed as part of the MAA of Azopt and are not discussed here.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  existence  of  a  fixed  dosage  combination  of  brinzolamide  and  timolol  is  considered  justified 
according to the Guideline on fixed combination medicinal products, and based on valid therapeutic 
principles. A simplification of therapy which improves patient compliance, a known factor of possible 
improvement in IOP control, supports the advantages of this fixed combination.  
The benefit of the concomitant administration of brinzolamide plus timolol was demonstrated at the 
time of gaining the marketing authorisation for Azopt. The current clinical development programme is 
aimed to support the benefit of the fixed dose combination of brinzolamide/timolol eye drops, solution 
with a well designed programme that documents the contribution of elements within the combination 
as  well  as  comparative  benefit  over  a  reference  treatment.  AZARGA  produces  greater  mean  IOP 
reductions than those produced by either Brinzolamide or timolol alone. Also, the non-inferiority of 
the  fixed  combination  over  the  currently  marketed  fixed  dose  combination  of  another  carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitor and timolol (Cosopt) has been shown.  Therefore, the efficacy requirements for a 
fixed dose combination therapy have been demonstrated.  
The  CHMP  concluded  that  although  the  data  confirming  the  efficacy  of  AZARGA  in  the  target 
population of open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension is based on a limited number of patients, 
namely  an  ITT  population  of  124  patients  treated  with  AZARGA,  the  demonstrated  effect  was 
convincing  and  robust.  Although  the  approach  of  the  study  programme  to  some  extent  is  failed, 
the  provided  analyses 
resulting 
demonstrate/contribute evidence of a clinical efficacy in these patients. 
limited  number  of  appropriate/target  patients, 
in  a 
Page 34/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant had justified that the efficacy in the selected, clinically relevant population the efficacy 
is  consistent  with  results  for  the  full  population.  Although  the  dossier  is  not  ideal,  the  Applicant’s 
response  was  acceptable,  and  a  MA  could  be  granted  provided  that  the  Applicant  can  accept  the 
CHMP proposal for a revised wording of the indication, as it was not the intention of the clinical trials 
carried out with AZARGA to show a benefit in patients not tolerant to their current IOP medication. 
Furthermore,  patients  being  treated  with  monotherapy  who  are  not  tolerant  to  their  medication  may 
switch to a different active substance in monotherapy as well before starting a combination product. 
Therefore, the initially proposed therapeutic indication: 
Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction or is not well tolerated (see 
section 5.1) 
Was reworded to: 
“Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction (see section 5.1)” 
This broad indication allows for a second line indication following monotherapy treatment with either 
timolol, prostaglandin analogues, alpha agonist, etc, but would allow for a third line indication as well.  
In summary, across all analyses presented on the total population, as part of the initial application, and 
on multiple patient subgroups provided in response to the Day 120 List of Questions and the response 
to the Day 180 List of Outstanding Issues, the results have demonstrated that the efficacy of AZARGA 
is superior to that of the individual components, and non-inferior to that of the active comparator 
Cosopt. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Duration of Exposure to AZARGA by Clinical Study 
Study 
Total Number 
of Patients 
Number of Patients 
on AZARGA 
C-97-22 
C-05-27 
C-05-10 
C-05-24 
C-05-49 
Total 
a
66 
87 
437 
523 
95c 
1203b 
33 
26 
220 
174 
48 
501 
Total Duration of Dosing AZARGA 
≥ 180 days  
0 
0 
214 
140 
0 
354 
≥ 350 days 
(1 yeara) 
0 
0 
200 
0 
0 
200 
  1 year is defined as ≥ 351 days due to the Month 12 Visit window [± 14 days] specified in the protocol 
b  
This total only includes topical ocular dosing.  Patients in protocol C-05-27 received either 
brinzolamide 1 mg capsules or placebo capsules before they were randomised to the topical ocular 
phase.  Five patients in C-05-27 were not randomised into the topical ocular phase of the study and are 
therefore not reflected in the total number of patients 
c
  96 patients were randomised, 1 patient never dosed and is excluded from this table 
AZARGA = brinzolamide 10 mg/ml + timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension 
The  size  and  distribution  of  the  safety  database  is  satisfactory  for  long  term  use  of  these  two  well 
established components: In the pivotal trials, the age of range 22 to 90 years, with 57.8% vs. 42.2 % 
female  and  male  patients,  respectively  is  unremarkable.  A  total  of  78.2  %  of  the  patients  were 
Caucasian, 16.4 % were Black.  
Adverse events 
An  adequate  battery  appropriate  for the  evaluation  of  the test  drug  in  patients with  glaucoma/ocular 
hypertension has been applied. 
Page 35/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of the frequency, incidence, and nature of adverse events in the phase III studies is shown 
in the tables below:  
Frequency and Incidence of Patients With Adverse Drug Reactions 
Patients with  
Adverse Drug Reactions 
Total N 
1203 
501 
264 
202 
236 
N 
205 
82 
71 
28 
24 
% 
17.1% 
16.2 
26.9 
13.9 
10.2 
Total 
AZARGA 
Cosopt 
Azopt 
Timolol 
Adverse Drug Reaction = treatment-related adverse event 
AZARGA = brinzolamide 10 mg/ml + Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension 
Cosopt = dorzolamide  20 mg/ml + Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Azopt = brinzolamide 10 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension 
Timolol = Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
The  percentage  of  adverse  events  with  AZARGA,  Cosopt,  brinzolamide  and  timolol  were  16.2  %, 
26.9 %, 13.9 % and 10.2 %, respectively, indicating a numerically larger frequency in the dorzolamide 
/timolol fixed combination than in the brinzolamide/timolol combination. 
All Adverse Drug Reactions - All Studies 
                     Brinzolamide   Cosopt       Azopt      Timolol 
   Coded               /Timolol 
   Adverse 
   Reactions            N = 501     N = 264     N = 202     N = 236 
                        N      %    N      %    N      %    N      % 
Immune system 
disorders 
Hypersensitivity                    2    0.8 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Insomnia                1    0.2 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Dysgeusia              12    2.4    6    2.3   10    5.0    1    0.4 
Headache                            3    1.1    1    0.5 
Sinus Headache                                              1    0.4 
Eye disorders 
Vision Blurred         31    6.2    2    0.8    6    3.0    3    1.3 
Eye Irritation         19    3.8   31   11.7    5    2.5    7    3.0 
Eye Pain               14    2.8   25    9.5    1    0.5    3    1.3 
Foreign Body            5    1.0    1    0.4    1    0.5    1    0.4 
Sensation In Eyes 
Punctate Keratitis      3    0.6                1    0.5    3    1.3 
Ocular Hyperaemia       3    0.6    4    1.5    1    0.5 
Photophobia             1    0.2    1    0.4    2    1.0    2    0.8 
Conjunctival            3    0.6                2    1.0    1    0.4 
Hyperaemia 
Lacrimation             1    0.2    3    1.1                2    0.8 
Increased 
Dry Eye                 2    0.4    1    0.4    1    0.5    1    0.4 
Eye Pruritus            3    0.6    1    0.4    1    0.5 
Eye Discharge           2    0.4                2    1.0 
Abnormal Sensation      1    0.2                            1    0.4 
In Eye 
Blepharitis             1    0.2    1    0.4 
Page 36/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blepharitis             1    0.2    1    0.4 
Allergic 
Eyelid Margin           1    0.2    1    0.4 
Crusting 
Anterior Chamber        1    0.2 
Flare 
Asthenopia              1    0.2 
Conjunctivitis          1    0.2 
Allergic 
Corneal Disorder        1    0.2 
Corneal Erosion         1    0.2 
Erythema Of Eyelid      1    0.2 
Eyelids Pruritus        1    0.2 
Scleral Hyperaemia      1    0.2 
Conjunctival                        1    0.4 
Follicles 
Eyelid Oedema                                   1    0.5    1    0.4 
Conjunctival Oedema                                         1    0.4 
Visual Acuity                                               1    0.4 
Reduced 
Cardiac disorders 
Bradycardia                         1    0.4                2    0.8 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Pharyngolaryngeal       1    0.2                1    0.5 
Pain 
Chronic Obstructive     1    0.2 
Pulmonary Disease 
Cough                   1    0.2 
Rhinorrhoea             1    0.2 
Orthopnoea                          1    0.4 
Sinus Congestion                                1    0.5 
Dyspnoea                                                    1    0.4 
Wheezing                                                    1    0.4 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea                                          2    1.0 
Vomiting                                        1    0.5 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Hair Disorder           1    0.2 
Lichen Planus           1    0.2 
Periorbital Oedema                              1    0.5 
Investigations 
Blood Pressure          2    0.4    1    0.4 
Decreased 
Intraocular             3    0.6 
Pressure Decreased 
Heart Rate                          2    0.8                1    0.4 
Decreased 
Corneal Staining                    1    0.4 
Coded adverse reactions = MedDRA Preferred Terms (version 10.0) presented  
by System Organ Class 
Brinzolamide/Timolol (AZARGA) = Brinzolamide 10 mg/ml + Timolol 5 mg/ml 
Eye Drops, Suspension 
Cosopt = dorzolamide  20 mg/ml + Timolol % mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Azopt = Brinzolamide 10 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension 
Timolol = Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
The  most  commonly  recorded  ocular  adverse  event  for  AZARGA  was  blurred  vision  (6.2  %),  eye 
irritation (3.8 %), eye pain (2.8 %), and foreign body sensation (1.0 %).  
Likewise, the cases of adverse events classified as treatment related are low and do not raise specific 
concerns. 
The  topical  ocular  adverse  events  do  not  represent  any  worrying  aspects,  either  quantitatively  or 
qualitatively.  However,  the  Applicant  was asked  to  provide  a  review  of  the increased cup/disc  ratio 
Page 37/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  visual  field  defect  observed  in  the  AZARGA  treated  population  and  explore  the  impact  of  the 
observed larger occurrence in the AZARGA-treated patients. Although the absolute figures are low, a 
preponderance of these disturbing changes is not excluded in the presented material. 
In its answer, the Applicant stated that there are no pharmacological reasons to expect differences 
between AZARGA and Cosopt. This was endorsed. The lack of statistical differences does not provide 
evidence for the absence of clinical differences potentially appearing.  
Overall, considering the mainly elderly population, the pattern is not unexpected. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Two deaths were reported, one renal cell carcinoma and one unexpected death. The cause of death was 
identified  as  a  left  intracerebral  haemorrhage  centred  on  the  basal  ganglia.  There  were  no  autopsy 
findings to indicate that the intracerebral haemorrhage was due to anything other than natural causes. 
The Investigator classified the death as not related to the study drug.  
No treatment related deaths were reported. 
Two serious adverse events recorded as treatment related were reported. One patient in the AZARGA-
group  developed  a  decompensation  of  a  previously  undiagnosed  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary 
disease. The second patient had a systemic allergic reaction to study medication, which was Cosopt. 
Overall, the frequency and nature of the reports of serious events were considered as not concerning. 
No specific pattern is revealed, and considering the mainly elderly population, these findings are not 
unexpected.  
Tolerability 
An  ocular  discomfort  study  has  been  performed  with 
the  fixed  dose  combination  of 
brinzolamide/timolol maleate eye drops. The applicant sought to demonstrate superiority of AZARGA 
over Cosopt in terms of ocular discomfort. 
Ocular discomfort (based on burning and stinging, a feeling of heat or warmth, sharp pain or smarting 
pain; rated on a 5-point scale) was the primary efficacy variable in the Comfort Study, C-05-49. The 
objective  was  to  compare  the  comfort  of  the  2  formulations  using  the  same  scale  and  design  as 
previous studies comparing Azopt and Trusopt (studies C-96-29 and C-96-40, provided in the MAA 
for Azopt). Study C-05-49 was powered to detect a difference of 0.7 units in mean ocular discomfort 
scores  between  the  treatment  groups  AZARGA  and  Cosopt.  Ocular  comfort  is  likely  to  influence 
patient compliance and 7 days was chosen based on historical considerations (i.e., previous experience 
with Azopt). 
The  ocular  comfort  was  further  evaluated  through  a  review  of  treatment  related  adverse-events. 
Patients treated with Cosopt reported a higher incidence of eye pain and irritation that patients treated 
with AZARGA: 
Page 38/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In studies C-05-24 and C-05-10 the treatment related adverse reaction pattern is similar: 
The applicant has to a reasonable degree justified the design and analysis of the primary comfort study 
C-05-49. This design has previously been accepted in other marketing authorization studies.  
Additionally, supportive analyses from the pivotal studies are offered. The ocular discomfort adverse 
event  related  reactions  in  studies  C-05-24  and  C-05-10  support  the  claim  of  better  tolerability  of 
AZARGA as compared to Cosopt. A randomised double-blind controlled cross-over study of patients´ 
preference  showed  a  clear  preference  for  AZARGA  as  well  as  lower  overall  discomfort  scores  as 
higher frequency of patients with a discomfort score of 0. 
In  summary,  the  applicant  has  justified  the  claim  of  overall  better  tolerability  for  AZARGA  as 
compared to Cosopt. 
Laboratory findings 
No clinically significant findings were revealed 
Analyses  of  vital  signs,  physical  findings  and  other  observations  related  to  safety  for  the  Phase  III 
Open-Angle Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension studies (C-05-10 and C-05-24), which included visual 
acuity (best-corrected logMAR), ocular signs (eyelids/conjunctiva, cornea, iris/anterior chamber, lens), 
visual  fields,  pachymetry,  dilated  fundus  parameters  (vitreous,  retina/macula/choroid,  optic  nerve 
including cup/disc ratio), and cardiovascular parameters (pulse and blood pressure) were performed. 
No treatment group differences were seen for parameters such as corneal thickness, visual field and 
ocular sign parameters.  
Page 39/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  slightly  higher  proportion  of  patients  treated  with  AZARGA  showed  clinically  relevant  changes 
from  baseline  in  visual  acuity  parameters  (4.6%  AZARGA  vs  3.7%  Cosopt,  1.7%  Azopt  and  2.3% 
Timolol), dilated fundus  parameters  retina/macula 1.6%  AZARGA  vs  0.5%  Cosopt  ,  0.6% timolol), 
and in cup/disc ratio (3.3% AZARGA vs 2.3% Cosopt, 1.1% Azopt, 1.7% timolol). However, most of 
these changes were considered not treatment related and do not constitute a safety concern.  
No  statistically  significant  differences  for  any  of  the  cardiovascular  parameters  pulse  ratio,  systolic 
and  diastolic  blood  pressure  among  treatment  groups  containing  beta-blocking  agents.  Mean 
reductions  in  pulse  ratio  in  the  AZARGA  group  ranged  from  1.8  to  3.7  bpm.  Mean  reductions  in 
systolic  blood  pressure  ranged  from  1.2  to  4.3  mmHg  while  mean  reductions  in  diastolic  blood 
pressure ranged from 0.7 to 1.6mmHg. These changes were in line with those seen in patients treated 
with Cosopt and were considered of no clinical relevance.  
Safety in special populations 
A  total  of  960  patients  participated  in  the  Open-Angle  Glaucoma  or  Ocular  Hypertension  studies, 
including  487  adult  patients  (18  to  64  years)  (50.7%),    473  elderly  patients  (65  years  and  older) 
(49.3%).  The  conclusions  based  upon  a  review  of  adverse  events  in  the  elderly  population  are 
consistent with those drawn from the review of the overall safety population. As compared to adults, a 
higher incidence of blurred vision (4.8% vs 2.2%), visual field defect (4.3% vs 2.2%), cataract (3.4% 
vs <2%) and hypertension (5.3% vs <2%) were seen. Most of these would be expected in an elderly 
population and thus are not considered a safety concern. However, the increased incidence of blurred 
vision  might  not  be  explained  solely  by  the  age,  but  a  different  or  more  stringent  precautionary 
statement in the SPC to that stated for adults in SPC Section 4.7 was not deemed necessary.   
A review analysing safety for the demographic subpopulations age, gender, race, iris colour and other 
intrinsic factors such as concomitant diseases and medications did not reveal any specific concerns.  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No interaction studies have been conducted, as also mentioned in the SPC. 
Discontinuation due to Adverse events 
A number of 24 patients were withdrawn because of treatment related adverse events, distributed with 
9  patients  in  patients  treated  with  AZARGA,  9  patients  treated  with  Cosopt,  2  patients  treated  with 
brinzolamide, and 4 patients treated with timolol. In the 9 AZARGA treated patients the reasons were:  
Allergic conjunctivitis, allergic blepharitis, anterior chamber flare, blurred vision, erythema of eyelid, 
eye pruritus, eye irritation, foreign body sensation in eyes, ocular hyperaemia, and pharyngolaryngeal 
pain. 
Overall, these reports are not worrying. 
Overall conclusions on clinical safety 
The  safety  pattern  of  the  brinzolamide/timolol  combination  is  in  consistency  with  that  of  the  well-
known  active  constituents,  and  no  hitherto  unidentified  adverse  events  were  revealed  with  the 
combination.  
The most frequently observed topical adverse events were blurred vision, eye irritation, eye pain and 
foreign body sensation, each of which were reported with a frequency below 7 %. The withdrawal rate 
because of adverse events with the fixed combination was low, i.e. 3.8 %. 
Overall, the safety profile is not concerning. 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  applicant  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
pharmacovigilance 
Page 40/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative  requirements  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a 
qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of 
any adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
The Summary Table: 
Safety Concern 
Respiratory 
disorders 
(identified) 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
• 
routine 
pharmacovigilance 
•  no additional activity 
is proposed at this 
time 
Cardiovascular 
disorders 
(identified) 
As above. 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications) includes: 
•  “Bronchial asthma, a history of bronchial asthma 
or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
•  Severe allergic rhinitis and bronchial hyper 
reactivity” 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions 
for use) includes the statement:  
“Due to the beta-adrenergic component, timolol, the 
same types of cardiovascular and pulmonary adverse 
reactions as seen with systemic beta adrenergic 
blocking agents may occur. …  
 Respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions, including 
death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma 
and, rarely, death in association with cardiac failure, 
have been reported following administration of timolol 
maleate”. 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications) includes: 
“Sinus bradycardia, second or third degree 
atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, or 
cardiogenic shock.” 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions 
for use) includes the statement: “ 
Due to the beta-adrenergic component, timolol, the 
same types of cardiovascular and pulmonary adverse 
reactions as seen with systemic beta adrenergic 
blocking agents may occur. Cardiac failure should be 
adequately controlled before beginning therapy with 
timolol. Patients with a history of severe cardiac 
disease should be watched for signs of cardiac failure 
and have their pulse rates checked. Respiratory 
reactions and cardiac reactions, including death due to 
bronchospasm in patients with asthma and, rarely, 
death in association with cardiac failure, have been 
reported following administration of timolol maleate. 
… They may also mask the signs of hyperthyroidism 
and cause worsening of Prinzmetal angina, severe 
peripheral and central circulatory disorders and 
Page 41/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corneal 
decompensation 
(identified) 
As above. 
As above. 
Metabolic 
acidosis 
reactions 
(identified) 
hypotension”. 
Section 4.5 (Interactions with other medicinal products 
and other forms of interaction) includes the statement: 
“There is a potential for addictive effects resulting in 
hypertension and/or marked bradycardia when eye 
drops with timolol are administered concomitantly 
with oral calcium channel blockers, guanethidine or 
beta adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrhytmics, 
digitalis glycosides or parasympathomimetics.  
The hypertensive reaction to sudden withdrawal of 
clonidine can be potentiated when taking beta 
adrenergic blocking agents.” 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions 
for use) includes the statement: 
“The possible role of brinzolamide on corneal 
endothelial function has not been investigated in 
patients with compromised corneas (particularly in 
patients with low endothelial cell count). 
Specifically, patients wearing contact lenses have not 
been studied and careful monitoring of these patients 
when using brinzolamide is recommended, since 
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may affect corneal 
hydration and wearing contact lenses might increase 
the risk for the cornea. Careful monitoring of patients 
with compromised corneas such as patients with 
diabetes mellitus or corneal dystrophies is 
recommended.” 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration) 
includes the statement: 
“Brinzolamide has not been studied in patients with 
severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 
ml/min) or in patients with hyperchloraemic acidosis. 
Since brinzolamide and its main metabolite are 
excreted predominantly by the kidney. AZARGA is 
therefore contraindicated in patients with severe renal 
impairment (see section 4.3).” 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications) includes: 
•  “Hyperchloraemic acidosis 
•  Severe renal impairment.” 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions 
for use) includes the statement: 
“AZARGA contains brinzolamide, a sulphonamide. 
The same types of undesirable effects that are 
attributable to sulphonamides may occur with topical 
administration.  Acid-based disturbances have been 
reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. If 
signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur, 
discontinue the use of medicinal product.” 
Page 42/47 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.5 (Interactions with other medicinal products 
and other forms of interaction) includes the statement: 
“AZARGA contains brinzolamide, a carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitor and, although administrated 
topically, is absorbed systematically. Acid-based 
disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitors. The potential for interactions 
must be considered in patients receiving AZARGA.” 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) includes the 
statement: 
“AZARGA contains brinzolamide which is a 
sulphonamide inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase with 
systemic absorption. Gastrointestinal, nervous system, 
haematological, renal and metabolic effects that are 
attributable to oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may 
occur with topical administration.” 
Section 4.9 (Overdose) includes the statement: 
“If overdose with AZARGA eye drops occurs 
treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. 
Electrolyte imbalance, development of an acidotic 
state, and possibly central nervous system effects may 
occur. Serum electrolyte levels (particularly 
potassium) and blood pH levels should be monitored.” 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions 
for use) includes the statement: 
“Benzalkonium chloride, which is commonly used as 
a preservative in ophthalmic products, has been 
reported to cause punctate keratopathy and/or toxic 
ulcerative keratopathy. Since AZARGA contains 
benzalkonium chloride, close monitoring is required 
with frequent or prolonged use.” 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration) 
includes the statement: 
“Paediatric patients 
AZARGA is not recommended for use in children 
below 18 years due to a lack of data on safety and 
efficacy.” 
Section 4.6 (Pregnancy and lactation) includes the 
statement: 
“There are no adequate data from the use if 
brinzolamide in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
The potential risk for human us unknown. 
Page 43/47 
As above. 
Long term use 
of preserved 
eye drops 
(potential) 
Important 
missing 
information 
Use in children 
and in 
pregnancy 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
As above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medication 
errors 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
As above. 
Well controlled epidemiological studies with systemic 
use of beta adrenergic blocking agents did not indicate 
malformative effects, but some pharmacological 
effects such as bradycardia have been observed in 
foetuses or neonates. Data on a limited number of 
exposed pregnancies indicate no adverse effects of 
timolol in eye drops on pregnancy or on the health of 
foetus/newborn child but bradycardia and arrhythmia 
have been reported in one case in the foetus of a 
woman treated with timolol eye drops. To date, no 
other relevant epidemiological data are available. 
AZARGA should not be use during pregnancy unless 
clearly necessary.” 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine risk minimisation. 
The SPC is up to date. 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration) 
includes some instructions for appropriate use of 
product: 
“If more than one topical ophthalmic medicinal 
product is being used, the medicines must be 
administered at least 5 minutes apart. 
Method of administration: 
For ocular use. 
To prevent contamination of the dropper tip and 
solution, care must be taken not to touch the eyelids, 
surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper 
tip of the bottle, Instruct patients to keep the bottle 
tightly closed when not in use.” 
The RMP documentation is in accordance with the EU requirements.  
A  proper  discussion  of  the  existing  database  and  its  limitations  is  provided.  In  general,  these 
limitations have been reflected in the proposed SPC.  
According  to  the  applicant,  no  specific  safety  signal  has  been  detected  from  animal  or  human  data, 
apart  from  those  already  known  to  be  associated  to  each  components  of  combination:  brinzolamide 
and timolol. Thus, there is no evidence to support the need for specific pharmacovigilance actions. 
The  MAH  will  conduct  routine  pharmacovigilance  monitoring  for  AZARGA.  Alcon’s  routine 
pharmacovigilance monitoring practices include: 
1)  Spontaneous Reporting: All cases are thoroughly analysed and particular effort will be placed 
in  the  follow  up  of  events  that  may  indicate  the  following  issues:  respiratory  reactions, 
cardiovascular  reactions,  corneal  events,  metabolic  acidosis  reactions  and  long  term  use  of 
preserved eye drops 
Page 44/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2)  Reporting  of  safety  data  for  regulatory  authorities:  Expedited  adverse  drug  reaction  (ADR) 
reports, Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs), and Update of the Risk Management plan 
(RMP) 
3)  Continuous monitoring of the safety profile of approved products including: ongoing review 
of  spontaneous  reports,  signal  detection,  updating  of  product  information,  evaluation  of  the 
Risk Management Plan, liaison with regulatory authorities, ongoing review of literature, and 
other activities required by local regulations. 
There  are  no  data  in  the  pediatric  population  with  this  fixed  combination.  This  is  considered  as 
missing information, and has been added to the relevant sections of the EU-RMP. No specific actions 
other than routine pharmacovigilance are planned in order to gather more information on efficacy and 
safety in the paediatric population. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product were investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are no 
unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
AZARGA  is  a  fixed  dose combination  of  brinzolamide  10  mg/ml  plus  timolol 5  mg/ml  intended to 
decrease  of  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or ocular  hypertension. 
Both active ingredients, used as monotherapy or as unfixed combination, are well known in terms of 
efficacy and safety for this indication. Thus, the rationale for developing the fixed combination was 
reasonable. 
Efficacy 
The existence of a FD combination of brinzolamide and timolol is considered justified according to 
the  Guideline  on  fixed  combination  medicinal  products  based  on  valid  therapeutic  principles.  A 
simplification of therapy which improves patient compliance, a known factor of possible improvement 
in IOP control, further supports the advantages of this fixed combination.  
The benefit of the concomitant administration of brinzolamide plus timolol was demonstrated at the 
time  of  gaining  the  marketing  authorisation  for  Azopt.  The  clinical  development  programme  was 
aimed to support the benefit of the fixed dose combination of brinzolamide/timolol eye drops, solution 
with a well designed programme that documents the contribution of elements within the combination 
as  well  as  comparative  benefit  over  a  reference  treatment.  AZARGA  produces  greater  mean  IOP 
reductions than those produced by either brinzolamide or timolol alone. Also, the non-inferiority of the 
fixed combination over the currently marketed fixed dose combination of another carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitor and timolol (Cosopt) was demonstrated.  Mean IOP reductions from baseline for AZARGA 
were  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant  at  all  measurement  times.  The  IOP  reduction 
ranged  from  -7.2  to  -9.2  mmHg  for  AZARGA  and  from  -7.7  to  -8.8  mmHg  for  Cosopt  in  the  per 
protocol  analysis.  In  the  subset  of  patients  with  a  screening  IOP  ≥  22  mmHg  and  one  or  more  pre 
study IOP lowering medication, mean IOP observed at 6 months was,  in study C-05-10 (N=71),  19.8 
mmHg at 8 am and 18.4 mmHg and 10 am; and in study C-05-24 (N= 53) 20.1 mmHg at 8 am and 
19.2 mmHg and 10 am. 
Therefore, the efficacy requirements for a fixed dose combination therapy have been demonstrated.  
Page 45/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Overall, the safety profile of the fixed combination of brinzolamide/timolol eye drops is similar to that 
seen with the concomitant use of dorzolamide  plus timolol and does not significantly differ from  the 
safety  profile  of  either  agent  used as  monotherapy.  A  higher  incidence  of  burning  and  stinging  was 
reported  in  patients  treated  with  Cosopt  as  compared  to  AZARGA..  No  unexpected  safety  concerns 
have arisen during the development of the fixed dose combination of brinzolamide/timolol. Therefore, 
it can be concluded that AZARGA is well-tolerated and safe for the use in the treatment of patients 
with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.    
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
Clinical  studies  aiming  to  demonstrate  the  effect  of  AZARGA  in  terms  of  absolute  IOP-decreasing 
properties and non-inferiority to the relevant active comparator, Cosopt, have been submitted. 
The obtained results for the fixed combination of brinzolamide + timolol eye drops show a  clinically 
and statistically superior effect to the single components in reducing the IOP in this 6 months study in 
patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. In the 12 months study, comparing a fixed 
combination  of  dorzolamide  and  timolol,  non-inferiority  was  consistently  proven  as  regards  IOP-
decreasing properties and in the proportion achieving an IOP-value ≤ 18 mm Hg. 
The results of both the pilot and pivotal trials demonstrate the superiority of AZARGA versus either 
active  ingredient  alone  as  well  as  the  non-inferiority  when  compared  to  an  analogous  fixed 
combination of dorzolamide/timolol. 
Although  the  data  confirming  the  efficacy  of  AZARGA  in  the  target  population  of  open  angle 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy provided insufficient IOP reduction is based 
on a limited number of patients, namely an ITT population of 124 patients treated with AZARGA, the 
demonstrated effect is convincing and robust.  
For AZARGA in this subset, mean IOP at 6 months was,  in study C-05-10 (N=71),  19.8 mmHg at 8 
am and 18.4 mmHg and 10 am; and in study C-05-24 (N= 53) 20.1 mmHg at 8 am and 19.2 mmHg 
and 10 am. Even if the approach of the study programme to some extent is failed, resulting in a limited 
number of target patients, the provided analyses demonstrate evidence of a clinical efficacy in these 
patients.  With  the  submitted  answer  the  Applicant  has  justified  that  the  efficacy  in  the  selected, 
clinically relevant population is consistent with results for the overall population.  
The  existence  of  a  fixed  dose  combination  of  brinzolamide  and  timolol  is  considered  justified 
according to the Guideline on fixed combination medicinal products, and is based on valid therapeutic 
principles. A simplification of therapy which improves patient compliance, a known factor of possible 
improvement in IOP control, further supports the advantages of this fixed combination.  
Risks  
The safety profile of AZARGA is overall not concerning. No new safety issues have appeared with the 
combined use of the elements in the present dossier. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Page 46/47 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance 
The  majority  of  patients  were  on  anti-glaucoma  medication  prior  to  study  inclusion,  which  was 
stopped during an appropriate wash-out period. The Applicant was requested to provide data on the 
type  of  previous  IOP  decreasing  medication  and  efficacy  results  for  the  sub-group  of  patients  for 
whom  there  is  general  agreement  on  being  considered  insufficient  responders  (i.e.  those  with  IOP-
values ≥22 mm Hg) while on treatment before the wash-out phase. 
The  Applicant  has  submitted  the  requested  analyses,  and  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  efficacy  of 
AZARGA eye drops in the subpopulation with an IOP ≥ 22 mmHg at inclusion and treated with at 
least one anti-glaucoma medication has been demonstrated. 
Although  the  data  confirming  the  efficacy  of  AZARGA  in  the  target  population  of  open  angle 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension is based on a limited number of patients, the demonstrated effect is 
robust. The adjunctive use of brinzolamide and timolol is well established in clinical practice which is 
also  reflected  in  the  therapeutic  indication  of  Azopt.  No  safety  new  issues  have  appeared  with  the 
combined use of the elements in the dossier. Although the approach of the study programme to some 
extent  is  failed,  resulting  in  a  limited  number  of  target  patients,  the  provided  analyses  contribute 
evidence of a clinical efficacy in these patients. 
The overall B/R of AZARGA is positive provided that the applicant agrees to revise the wording of 
the  indication  and  commits  to  perform  a  number  of  post  authorisation  follow-  up  measures  to  be 
reported back to the CHMP within predefined timeframes. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  AZARGA  in  the  treatment  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in  adult 
patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  for  whom  monotherapy  provides 
insufficient IOP reduction was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorization.  
Page 47/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
