19 September 2013 
EMA/8096/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Azilect 
International non-proprietary name: rasagiline 
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000574/PSUV/0060 
Period covered by the PSUR:  3 January 2010 to 2 January 2013 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Azilect, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Following the review of spontaneously reported cases of symptoms related to impulse control disorders 
(ICD), the PRAC noted that the majority of the cases involved concomitant use of dopamine agonists, 
which is a risk factor for developing ICD. However, there were 8 cases with no associated concomitant 
drugs and therefore the PRAC considered that a causal relationship between the occurrence of ICD and 
the use of rasagiline could not be excluded. Taking into account the CHMP/PhVWP conclusions from 
July 2012 recommending harmonised wording on the risk of ICD for medicinal products containing 
levodopa, dopamine agonist and/or COMT inhibitors as well as the specific adverse event profile 
reported for rasagiline, the PRAC recommended the update of SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 to inform 
healthcare professionals, patients and carers that post-marketing cases of ICD have been reported in 
patients taking rasagiline and to provide advice for monitoring the patients. Furthermore, based on 
spontaneous reports relating to blood pressure decreases received during the PSUR period, the PRAC 
considered that a warning on hypotensive effects should be added to SmPC section 4.4 as Parkinson’s 
disease patients may be particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of hypotension due to existing 
gait issues. Finally, the PRAC recommended to add a warning to SmPC section 4.4 on the risk of 
exacerbated dopaminergic side effects and worsening of pre-existing dyskinesia when rasagiline is 
used in combination with levodopa.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Azilect the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing the active substance rasagiline is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.  
Azilect  
EMA/8096/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
