SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
AZILECT  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  idiopathic  Parkinson’s  disease  (PD)  as  monotherapy 
(without  levodopa)  or  as  adjunct  therapy  (with  levodopa)  in  patients  with  end  of  dose  fluctuations. 
Rasagiline is administered orally, at a dose of 1 mg once daily with or without levodopa. 
Parkinson’s  disease  is  a  common  neurodegenerative  disorder  typified  by  loss  of  dopaminergic 
neurones from the basal ganglia, and by a characteristic clinical syndrome with cardinal physical signs 
of resting tremor, bradikinesia and rigidity. The main treatment aims at alleviating symptoms through 
a balance of anti-cholinergic and dopaminergic drugs. Parkinson’s disease (PD) treatment is complex 
due to the progressive nature of the disease, and the array of motor and non-motor features combined 
with early and late side effects associated with therapeutic interventions.  
Rasagiline  is  a  chemical  inhibitor  of  the  enzyme  monoamine  oxidase  (MAO)  type  B  which  has  a 
major role in the inactivation of biogenic and diet-derived amines in the central nervous system. MAO 
has two isozymes (types A and B) and type B is responsible for metabolising dopamine in the central 
nervous system; as dopamine deficiency is the main contributing factor to the  clinical  manifestations 
of Parkinson’s disease, inhibition of MAO-B should tend to restore dopamine levels towards normal 
values  and  this  improve  the  condition.  Rasagiline  was  developed  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of 
Parkinson’s  disease  both  as  monotherapy  in  early  disease  and  as  adjunct  therapy  to  levodopa  + 
aminoacids decarboxylase inhibitor (LD + ADI) in patients with motor fluctuations. 
2. 
Quality 
Introduction 
Drug Substance  
•  Composition 
AZILECT  contains  rasagiline  mesylate  as  the  active  substance.  It  is  presented  as  tablets  each  one 
containing an amount of rasagiline mesylate equivalent to 1 mg of rasagiline base 
Other  ingredients  include  mannitol,  maize  starch,  pregelatinized  maize  starch,  colloidal  anhydrous 
silica, stearic acid and talc. 
AZILECT  is  packaged  in  high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  containers  or  in  Aluminium  (Alu/Alu) 
blister packs. 
•  Active substance 
The chemical name of rasagiline mesylate is N-propargyl-1(R)-aminoindan-mesylate. It is a white to 
off-white powder, freely soluble in water or ethanol and sparingly soluble in isopropanol. Rasagiline is 
a  highly  soluble  substance,  according  to  the  Biopharmaceutics  Classification  System.  Rasagiline 
mesylate  is  a  chiral  compound  with  one  asymmetric  carbon  atom  in  the  five-member  ring  with  an 
absolute  R  configuration,  which  is  produced  as  a  single  enantiomer.  The  proof  of  the  chemical 
structure of rasagiline mesylate drug substance has been achieved by elemental analysis, UV, IR, 1H- 
and  13C-NMR spectroscopic  methods and  MS. All  data  were  consistent  with the proposed structure. 
There is no evidence of polymorphism and only one crystalline form of rasagiline mesylate exists.  
The  drug  substance  synthesis  is  carried  out  in  3  steps  starting  from  the  main  starting  material  1-
aminoindan. The route of synthesis has been adequately described and is appropriately controlled with 
suitable in-process controls. 
Validation  results  from  three  production-scale  validation  batches  using  the  commercial  route  of 
synthesis  demonstrated  that  the  active  substance  is  produced  in  a  reproducible  manner  and  that  it 
meets consistently the proposed specifications. 
The potential  organic impurities of rasagiline  mesylate  drug substance  originating  from the route  of 
synthesis  as  well  as  from  the  degradation  of  the  active  ingredient  have  been  thoroughly  discussed. 
1/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Only 5 of these have been detected in batches of the active substance and specifications have been set 
for them. No heavy metals are used throughout the synthesis of rasagiline mesylate and the content of 
residual  organic  solvents  in  rasagiline  mesylate  is  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guideline  Q3C 
requirements. 
Active substance specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  description,  identification (IR,  UV  and  HPLC), 
colour and clarity, melting point, specific optical rotation as indicative of the chirality of the material, 
loss  on  drying,  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals,  pH  of  an  aqueous  solution,  assay,  impurities  and 
degradation products (HPLC, GC-MS), enantiomeric purity, organic residual solvents, microbial limit 
and particle size distribution.  
The  proposed  specifications  for  the  drug  substance  are  based  on  the  analysis  of  15  batches  of 
rasagiline mesylate. The analytical methods used in the routine controls have been suitably described 
and  validated, while the limits for  organic impurities  have been qualified and accepted based  on the 
levels observed in toxicological studies. 
Batch  analysis  data  from  15  batches  have  been  presented.  All  batches  comply  with  the  active 
substance specification. 
Stability 
Stability  studies  were  carried  according  to  ICH  requirements  on  3  primary  stability  batches  of 
rasagiline mesylate and 3 supporting production batches. Samples were stored at 25 °C/60%RH for up 
to 48 months and at 40 °C/75%RH for 6 months. 
Stress  testing  was  also  carried  out,  which  included  photostability  studies  performed  under  ICH 
conditions and a series of forced degradation studies designed to determine the conditions under which 
degradation  occurs  and  to  assess  the  stability  indicating  ability  of  the  analytical  methods  used  for 
related substances.  
The  parameters  evaluated  during  the  stability  studies  were  description,  assay  (HPLC,  titration), 
impurities/degradation products determination and enantiomeric purity.  
No  significant  changes  have  occurred  in  any  test  parameter  under  normal  storage  conditions.  The 
results of all stability studies indicate that rasagiline mesylate is stable and that the container closure 
system  that  was  used  provides  suitable  protection  for  the  drug  substance  under  normal  storage 
conditions.  
•  Other ingredients 
All  excipients  used  in  the  product  are  of  non-animal  origin  and  comply  with  their  corresponding 
European Pharmacopoeia monographs. 
The immediate packaging materials are commonly used for tablets and consist of either HDPE bottles 
with a polypropylene cap or (Alu/Alu) blisters.  
Drug Product  
Product development and finished product 
The  pharmaceutical  development  was  aimed  at  obtaining  an  immediate-release  tablet.  The  mesylate 
salt  was  selected  as  the  drug  substance  for  the  commercial  product  for  its  stability.  Preformulation 
studies with various excipients led to the selection of mannitol as the main filler pregelatinized maize 
starch  and  starch  as  binder  and  disintegrant,  talc  and  stearic  acid  as lubricants  and  colloidal  silicon 
dioxide as glidant for the final formulation.  
The main objective of the manufacturing process development was to obtain a medicinal product that 
presents good uniformity of content, dissolution and other critical physical parameters. For this reason 
a standard granulation process was employed comprising of the following steps: mixing, granulating 
drying and milling. The resulting granules are compressed into tablets and then packaged. All critical 
process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  controlled  by  appropriate  in  process  controls.  The 
validation report from three production scale batches demonstrates that the process is reproducible and 
provides a drug product that complies with the in-process and finished product specifications. 
2/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Different product formulations have been used in the early stability studies. However bioequivalence 
between the clinical trial formulations and the one intended for marketing has been demonstrated and 
is further supported by the results of an in-vivo pharmacokinetics study. 
Product specification 
The  specification  for  the  finished  product  at  release  and  shelf  life  includes  tests  for  description, 
identification (TLC and HPLC), assay, uniformity of content, dissolution, weight, thickness, hardness, 
friability,  disintegration,  impurities  and  degradation  products  (HPLC  and  GC-MS),  and  microbial 
count. All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Batch analysis data from 7 clinical and 6 industrial batches have been presented. All batches met the 
test limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology valid at the time of batch 
release. 
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  on  3  production  scale  batches  of  tablets  according  to  the  ICH 
requirements.  Batches  were  packaged  in  Alu/Alu  blisters  and  HDPE  bottles  capped  with 
polypropylene caps. Samples were stored at 25oC/60 % RH for up to 24 months, 30oC/60 % RH for up 
to 12 months and 40oC/75 % RH for 6 months. 
The parameters tested concerned physical and chemical testing of the same quantifiable parameters as 
for  release  i.e.  assay/Identification  (HPLC),  identification  of  impurities,  dissolution,  hardness, 
microbial testing. The stability results presented were satisfactory and support the proposed shelf life 
for the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Additional photostability studies have been performed according to ICH guidelines in both packages 
and the results demonstrated that the product is also stable to light. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The  quality  of  AZILECT  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is a highly soluble substance, according to the Biopharmaceutics Classification 
System. It is well characterised and documented. The excipients are commonly used in these types of 
formulations and comply with Eur. Phar. requirements. The packaging material is commonly used and 
well documented. The manufacturing process of the finished product is a standard granulation process 
that  has  been  adequately  described.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines 
conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
3. 
Non-Clinial aspects 
Introduction 
AZILECT is an oral tablet containing 1 mg of rasagiline expressed in terms of rasagiline base, which 
has a molecular weight of 171.23. The recommended posology is once daily oral administration of a 
1.0 mg Tablet. 
Two salts were used during the non-clinical programme. Initially, the hydrochloride salt was used, but 
this was changed to the mesylate salt to overcome stability issues. Bridging studies have been 
conducted, and bioequivalence has been demonstrated. 
There  was  no  bioconversion  of  rasagiline  mesylate  (R  enantiomer)  to  its  S  enantiomer  within  the 
human body, as determined in plasma samples for healthy volunteers dosed with rasagiline. 
Nonclinical studies with rasagiline were conducted in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs and marmosets. 
Sufficient exposure multiples were achieved in vivo to allow comparison with clinical data, and in the 
calculation of safety margins. 
Pivotal toxicology studies were stated to be conducted to GLP standards. 
3/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Monoamine oxidase (MAO) plays a major role in the in vivo inactivation of biogenic and diet-derived 
amines in both the  central  nervous system  (CNS) and in peripheral  neurons and tissues. Two MAO 
isozymes are distinguished: 
-  MAO  type  A  (MAO-A),  which  is  mainly  responsible  for  the  deamination  of  serotonin  (5-
hydroxytryptamine;  5-HT)  and  noradrenaline  (NA).  Dopamine  (DA)  is  a  substrate  for  both 
MAO-A  and  MAO-B  in  the  brain.  In  the  intestine,  MAO-A  metabolizes  the  oxidation  of 
tyramine. 
-  MAO-B,  which is inhibited by selegiline.  MAO-B inhibition in the  human brain  principally 
reduces the catabolism of DA and 
β
-phenylethylamine (PE). 
Both  MAO-A  and  MAO-B are  found in  similar amounts in rodent brains, whereas in  man, MAO-B 
predominates  (80%  of  total  MAO)  in  the  brain  and  MAO-A  is  found  in  greater  abundance  in  the 
gastrointestinal tract. 
Inhibition  of  MAO  activity  by  rasagiline  [N-propargyl-1(R)-aminoindan]  mesylate,  rasagiline 
hydrochloride, their (S)-isomers and by the metabolite 1-(R)-aminoindan hydrochloride was studied in 
vitro and ex vivo. The MAO inhibitory properties of rasagiline were compared to those of the selective 
irreversible MAO-B inhibitor selegiline. 
Both rasagiline mesylate and rasagiline hydrochloride exhibit a similar, highly potent and MAO-B - 
selective inhibition activity in vitro. The derived IC50 values for human and rat brain MAO-B 
inhibition are 20-90 fold lower compared to the respective values for MAO-A inhibition. The 
metabolite of rasagiline, 1-R aminoindan, did not inhibit brain MAO-B in vitro. 
The high potency and relative selectivity of rasagiline seen in brain and peripheral tissues in vitro was 
preserved  in  vivo  following  oral  acute  administration  in  rodents.  Rasagiline  was  more  potent  than 
selegiline. The ratio of their respective ED50 values for inhibiting rat brain or liver MAO-B are 1/3 or 
1/13, respectively.  
In studies in rats  for 21 days  (po), repeated treatment with rasagiline resulted in increased  MAO  (A 
and  B)  inhibition  compared  to  acute  treatment.  Rasagiline  selectivity  for  MAO-B  inhibition  was 
maintained  upon  repeated  treatment.  The  superior  MAO  inhibitory  potency  of  rasagiline  over 
selegiline  was  maintained  also  in  repeated  treatment.  Rasagiline  exhibited  selectivity  for  brain  and 
peripheral tissues MAO-B inhibition also in dogs. Rasagiline was also shown to be a potent inhibitor 
of the marmoset brain MAO-B. 
To  demonstrate  the  irreversible  nature  of  MAO  inhibition  by  rasagiline,  recovery  of  MAO  activity 
following chronic drug administration was monitored. Seven and 13 days after cessation of treatment 
brain, MAO-B and –A are still inhibited by 55-40% and 45-41%, respectively. The irreversibility of 
brain MAO inhibition was also established in marmosets.  
In  studies  in  mice,  both  rasagiline  and  selegiline  prevented  the  1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-
tetrahydropyridine  (MPTP)-induced  decline  in  DA  level  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  However,  the 
minimal  rasagiline  dose  needed  to  block  100%  of  the  MPTP-induced  damage  was  0.5  mg/kg 
compared to a selegiline dose of 2.5 mg/kg. In marmoset, treatment with either rasagiline or selegiline 
(10 mg/kg, s.c.) also markedly attenuated the neurotoxic effects of MPTP. 
Increases in DA and 5-HT level occurred at rasagiline doses of 2 and 5 mg/kg/day, at which MAO-A 
was inhibited to a large extent. These increases in monoamine levels were associated with decreases in 
the  levels  of  the  respective  metabolites,  indicating  that  the  changes  in  monoamine  levels  were  the 
direct consequence of MAO-A and MAO-B inhibition. Studies which used the  microdialysis method 
to  determine  monoamine  levels  showed  that  both  rasagiline  and  selegiline  caused  an  increased 
extracellular DA level following chronic treatment in the rat, at a dose, which caused selective MAO-
B inhibition. 
Rasagiline  restored  normal  motor  activity  in  animal  models  of  haloperidol  or  α-MpT  -induced 
dopaminergic  dysfunction.  Acute  pre-treatment  with  rasagiline  (0.5-6 mg/kg,  i.p.)  prevented 
haloperidol-induced catalepsy and α-MpT-induced hypokinesia in adult rats.  
4/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
The major rasagiline metabolite, 1(R)-aminoindan, exhibited ameliorating activity on α-MpT-induced 
hypokinesia, potentiated amphetamine-induced stereotypic behavior and improved performance in the 
passive avoidance test. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics  
Rasagiline  neuroprotective  properties  were  studied  in  vitro  in  dopaminergic-mesencephalic,  cortical 
and  hippocampal  primary  neuronal  cultures  and  in  the  PC12  and  SH-SY5Y  cell  lines.  The 
neuroprotective  effects  of  rasagiline  in  vitro  cannot  be  attributed in  the  main  to  MAO  inhibition  by 
rasagiline.  This  is  because  its  (S)-enantiomer,  which  lacks  MAO  inhibitory  activity,  exhibited  an 
almost equivalent protective activity in these cell culture systems. These pharmacological actions have 
been demonstrated to be associated with the propargylamine moiety, since propargylamine itself has 
similar action. 
Rasagiline  neuroprotective  potential  was  confirmed  in  several  in  vivo  models  of  neuronal  insult: 
hypobaric hypoxia, closed head injury in mice, permanent focal ischemia in rats, stroke susceptibility 
in stroke-prone hypertensive rats, ALS-like syndrome in transgenic Cu/Zn SOD mice, apoptotic death 
of  immature  rat  motor  neurons  following  axotomy  and  6-hydroxydopamine  (6-OHDA)  induced 
degeneration of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. 
The rasagiline metabolite, aminoindan, given to animals, has exhibited ameliorating activity in several 
models of dopaminergic motor dysfunction and hypoxia-induced cognitive deficits. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
The effect of rasagiline on the cardiovascular system was assessed in dogs, rats and cats. In the dog 
study, conscious animals acutely treated with rasagiline (3 mg/kg, oral) were monitored by telemetry 
and  blood  pressure,  heart  rate  as  well  as  ECG  parameters  were  measured.  Rasagiline  produced  no 
overt  treatment  related  changes  in  cardiovascular  parameters  in  dogs.  Similarly,  rasagiline  (up  to  1 
mg/kg, i.v.) caused no effects on the cardiovascular system in cats.  
Studies in rats indicated that rasagiline administered  repeatedly  at dose levels (2  mg/kg, oral)  which 
exceeded  those  required  for  selective  MAO-B  inhibition  showed  no  changes  in  cardiovascular 
parameters. In a comparative study that assessed the effects of rasagiline (acute 5 and 10 mg/kg, i.v.) 
versus selegiline (acute 5 and 10 mg/kg, i.v.) on blood pressure of pithed rats, only selegiline caused 
significant increases in blood pressure. 
The tested doses of rasagiline in the rat and dog were at least 10 times higher compared to the clinical 
dose of 1 mg/day in patients. Therefore a satisfactory margin of safety was provided.  
The  effect  of  orally  administered rasagiline  mesylate  on  central nervous system  functions  governing 
motor  activity,  behavior  and  response  to  stimuli  in  the  rat  were  monitored  using  the  Irwin  test. 
Rasagiline evoked no unusual effect in this test.  
Respiratory  adverse  events  were  absent  in  a  dog  telemetry  study  and  in  repeated  dose  toxicology 
studies.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
A potential pharmacodynamic interaction of rasagiline with Levodopa was considered. The effects of 
rasagiline  versus  selegiline  on  the  Levodopa  pressor  response  were  compared  in  a  series  of  studies. 
When rasagiline and selegiline had been given acutely (i.v.) to pithed rats at a dose of 5 mg/kg, acutely 
administered levodopa evoked a pressor response in the case of selegiline but not rasagiline. Levodopa 
co administered with carbidopa failed to evoke a pressor response after pre-treatment with rasagiline 
repeated 
for  15  days 
levodopa/carbidopa  administration  to  rats.  Mean  BP  in  rasagiline-treated  (1  mg/kg)  rats  given 
levodopa/carbidopa did not change significantly from those given saline and levodopa/carbidopa.  
(1 mg/kg/day,  p.o.).  Mean  blood  pressure  decreased 
following 
The effect of rasagiline on tyramine pressor response was studied in rats. Tyramine failed to evoke a 
pressor response after pre-treatment with rasagiline when given at relevant pharmacological doses (up 
to  0.5  mg/kg/day,  p.o.  for  21  days),  at  which  MAO-A  was  only  partially  inhibited.  (See  Clinical 
section) 
5/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Toxicokinetic monitoring of systemic (plasma) exposure to unchanged product and the metabolite 1-
aminoindan  was  incorporated  into  the  design  of  the  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  carcinogenicity 
studies and reproduction toxicity studies. Studies were also undertaken in rats and dogs to investigate 
the potential for pharmacokinetic drug-interactions when rasagiline is co-administered with levodopa 
and the peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor carbidopa. 
Non-clinical studies were conducted with the both the hydrochloride and mesylate salts of rasagiline. 
However,  bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated,  and  the  two  salt  forms  can  be  considered  as 
essentially the same. 
14C-labelled  and  unlabelled  rasagiline  and  its  metabolite  aminoindan  have  been  used  in  the 
quantification of PK parameters. 
•  Absorption- Bioavailability 
Oral studies with 14C-rasagiline show that absorption is rapid in all species, with Cmax attained in less 
than 2 hours. Absolute bioavailability has been estimated as 53-69% in rats, 13-22% in dogs, and 36% 
in humans. 
Toxicokinetic analyses during the toxicology studies showed that exposure was linear at doses higher 
than  the  pharmacological  selectivity  for  inhibition  of  MOA-B  and  was  maintained  up  to  about 
5 mg/kg/day. However,  kinetics became  non-linear  at  higher  doses, possibly indicating saturation  of 
the elimination processes for both rasagiline and its metabolite aminoindan. 
Accumulation was seen only at the highest doses in the mouse and dog studies (60 and 21mg/kg/day 
respectively). 
•  Distribution 
IV studies in rats and dogs show that the volume of distribution (Vd) of rasagiline is several times that 
of total body water, indicating extensive tissue distribution. 
Tissue  distribution  of  14C-rasagiline  was  studied  in  albino  and  pigmented  rats,  revealing  peaks  of 
tissue  radioactivity  between  0.25  and  0.5  hours.  Distribution  to  large  intestine,  urinary  bladder  and 
lacrimal glands takes longer, whilst persistence (up to 24 hrs) was seen in eyes, skin and arterial walls 
of pigmented animals. 
In-vitro protein binding in plasma of animals is in the range of 70 to 90% and in human plasma in the 
range of 88 to 94%. 
•  Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
An extensive first pass metabolism effect is evident, likely due to rasagiline binding to MAO sites in 
the intestine prior to passing the liver. 
Metabolism is rapid and  extensive,  with a similar profile in  all tested species.  The primary route  of 
biotransformation is via N-dealkylation to form aminoindan and by hydroxylation to form 3-hydroxy-
N-propargyl-1-aminoindan. Conjugation by sulphide or glucuronic acid occurs. 
Microsomal studies indicate CYP1A2 as the primary metabolising isotype, but rasagiline is neither an 
inducer nor inhibitor of cytochrome p450. The metabolism of rasagiline under inhibition, induction of 
CYP1A2 or in presence of concomitant substrate to the enzyme has been addressed clinically. 
•  Excretion 
The  clearance  of  rasagiline  is  greater  than  the  combined  predicted  renal  and  hepatic  blood  flow, 
suggesting extra hepatic, extra renal modes of elimination, possibly through non-reversible binding to 
target sites in the tissues. Mass balance studies conducted following oral administration in mice, rats 
and  dogs  showed  a  large  proportion  (>90%)  of  the  administered  radioactivity  in  the  excreta, 
particularly urine (70-85%). 
Despite the rapid elimination half-life for rasagiline, repeat doses were seen to give greater exposure 
than seen after single doses. The company have reasonably argued that this observation is compatible 
6/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
with the mechanism of irreversible binding of rasagiline to MAO-B, leading to saturation of binding 
site. Excess unbound product appears in the plasma after the saturation threshold has been reached.  
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
≥
Single dose toxicity studies were conducted by the intravenous route in rats and by the oral route in 
mice,  rats  and  dogs.  Studies  were  initially  conducted  with  the  hydrochloride  salt  and  subsequently 
with the more stable mesylate salt. Single dose bridging studies were undertaken which established the 
essentially  similar  toxicity  and  kinetics  profiles  of  the  hydrochloride  and  mesylate  salts  in  rats  and 
dogs. Mortalities were induced in rats by intravenous doses ≥69 mg/kg/day. Mortalities were induced 
206 mg/kg, in rats at oral doses ≥155 mg/kg and in dogs at oral doses of ≥84 
in mice at oral doses of 
mg/kg.  Death  was  a  result  of  the  functional  neuropharmacological  changes  that  can  be  anticipated 
when  excessive  doses  of  a  molecule  capable  of  inhibiting  the  oxidation  of  biogenic  amines  are 
administered. The maximal non-lethal oral dose for rats and mice was about 100 mg/kg/day and the 
maximum tolerable dose (MTD) in dogs was 42 mg/kg. These doses represent considerable multiples 
of the recommended clinically relevant maximum dose of 1 mg/patient/day. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The rat and dog were selected for the conduct of repeat dose toxicity studies, both species having been 
shown  to  be  pharmacologically  responsive  to  rasagiline-induced  inhibition  of  MAO-B.  Repeat  dose 
intravenous toxicity studies of 4-week duration were conducted at maximum doses of 3 mg/kg/day in 
rats  and  5  mg/kg/day  in  dogs.  Repeat  dose  oral  toxicity  studies  of  up  to  26  week  duration  were 
conducted  in  rats  employing  doses  spanning  the  range  0.14  to  17  mg/kg/day  and  of  up  to  52  week 
duration in dogs employing doses spanning 0.28 to 21.0 mg/kg/day. 
When the multiples of the systemic exposures to rasagiline and aminoindan across the range of doses 
used  for  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  are  compared  with  the  clinically  relevant 
human exposure at the maximum recommended daily dose of 1 mg/day/patient, it is observed that the 
lowest doses used for the repeat dose toxicity studies afforded at least 7-fold the mean Cmax and AUC 
last values for PAI (rasagiline) in humans receiving 1 mg/day. The highest doses used for the repeat 
dose  toxicology  studies  afforded  at  least  250-fold  Cmax  and  AUC  last  values  for  PAI  in  humans 
receiving 1 mg/day. 
After intravenous and oral  dosing the principal  manifestations of toxicity  were  related to the loss  of 
selectivity for MAO-B (i.e. reduced food intake and weight gain and hyperactivity and/or aggression 
in  rats).  At  the  higher  oral  doses  these  findings  were  sometimes  accompanied  by  increases  in  liver 
weight and changes in hepatocyte morphology in rats. The liver changes were consistent with changes 
observed  in  rats  treated  with  hepatic  microsomal  enzyme  inducers,  there  was  however  no  evidence 
from studies that measured hepatic microsomal proteins to support this hypothesis. Suspected changes 
in thyroid and bladder morphology identified in the rat 13-week oral study were not corroborated by 
findings  in  either  the  4-week  or  26-week  rat  oral  studies.  The  no  adverse  effect  level  (NOAEL) 
defined after 26 weeks treatment of rats and 52 weeks treatment of dogs was 5.1 mg/kg/day (for both 
rats and dogs). In terms of AUC last values, the animal NOAELs afford multiples of at least 15-fold 
with respect to exposure to PAI at the clinical dose of 1 mg/patient/day.  
Studies  were  conducted  to  examine  whether  co-administration  of  rasagiline  with  levodopa  and  a 
peripheral  decarboxylase  inhibitor  (carbidopa)  can  produce  effects  other  than  the  expected 
dopaminergic  actions.  There  were  no  effects  in  rats  or  dogs  given  rasagiline/carbidopa/levopda  that 
could not be attributed to amplification of the effects of levodopa/carbidopa. 
•  Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo 
Rasagiline mesylate was not mutagenic in the bacteria reverse mutation (Ames) assay, with or without 
metabolic  activation  nor  clastogenic  when  tested  in  the  absence  of  metabolic  activation.  In  the 
presence of metabolic activation, equivocal results were obtained at the highest tested doses. 
According  to  the  applicant,  based  on  published  literature,  gentamycin  enhances  liver  mediated 
cytotoxicity, by interacting with molecules such as pargyline (which is of the same class as rasagiline) 
at  the  ribosomal  level  (Mayne  &  Evans,  1988).  When  pargyline  was  tested  in  the  chromosome 
aberration  assay  a  similar  effect  of  gentamycin  was  observed.  Addition  of  glutathione  reduced  the 
7/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
incidence of aberrations to control levels. Rasagiline seemed therefore to display slight genotoxicity in 
the  system  in  presence  of  metabolic  activation,  which  would  be  enhanced  by  the  presence  of 
gentamycin. 
In  the  TK  mouse  lymphoma  assay,  rasagiline  showed  excessive  cytotoxicity  and  evidence  of 
clastogenicity in the presence of metabolic activation. The effect was greatly reduced by the addition 
of glutathione. 
In  view  of  the  equivocal  in  vitro  results,  two  types  of  in  vivo  genotoxicity  studies  were  performed 
rather  than  one.  One  study  tested  micronuclei  formation  in  polychromatic  erythrocytes  in  the  bone 
marrow of mice, and one study tested unscheduled DNA synthesis in liver cells of treated rats. Both 
studies demonstrated no mutagenic potential for rasagiline mesylate. 
The combination of rasagiline with levodopa/carbidopa did not show genotoxic potential in vivo.  
•  Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics)    
The  carcinogenic potential of rasagiline  was studied in two life-span studies  in  mice and  rats, using 
doses  chosen  on the basis of pharmacodynamic and toxicological  criteria rather than  on the basis of 
systemic exposure ratios in animals and man, due to the equivocal genotoxicity identified in vitro. 
Rasagiline  was  not  carcinogenic  in  rats  at  exposure  up  to  84  times  the  human  exposure  at  the 
recommended clinical dose, for male rats and up to 399 times in female rats. Microscopic examination 
identified foot lesions, characterized by chronic-active inflammation and ulceration of the epidermis. 
Urogenital  tract  inflammation  characterized  by  acute  inflammation  and  haemorrhage  of  the  urinary 
bladder  and prostate gland  with  dilatation  of the  kidney pelvis and tubules  and tubular  degeneration 
were  found  at  significantly  increased  incidence  in  highest  dosage  male  rats  group  (3.0  mg/kg/day). 
These  pathological  findings  seen  in  rats  treated  chronically  at  high  doses  were  explained  by 
exaggerated sympathetic activities that relate to the primary action of the product.  
In  the  mice  study,  the  doses  administered  were  1,  15  and  45  mg/kg/day.  Increased  incidences  of 
combined lung adenomas/adenocarcinomas were observed in both genders, with a lower safety margin 
(based on human and animal exposure) in males (rasagiline exposure ratios of mice, to humans treated 
with  1  mg/day  (AUC  mice/AUC  humans)  were  6,  213  and  1418  for  males  and  4,  144  and  419  for 
females  dosed  with  1,  15  and  45  mg/kg/day,  respectively.).  Historical  control  data  showed  a  wide 
range of incidences of lung tumors (combined adenoma/carcinoma in males up to 46% and in females 
up to 28.6%). Although it is recognized that even at 45 mg/kg/day the observed incidence of combined 
bronchiolar/alveolar  adenoma  and/or  carcinoma  was  only  slightly  above  the  testing  laboratory’s 
historical control range for females and was within the historical control range for males CD-1 mice, 
there  was  a  clear  dose-related  increase  (13/13;  11/12;  23/19;  24/20  respectively  in  male/female 
controls, 1, 15 and 45  mg/kg/day  dose  groups). Furthermore, safety  margin  at NOEL  for  males  was 
only 6 (even if it should be noted that there is a 15 fold increase in between the low and intermediate 
doses). Considering the  equivocal  genotoxic potential and the lack  of plausible  explanation  for lung 
tumor  development  in  mice,  the  company  was  asked  to  perform  further  test  addressing  the 
involvement of a  genotoxic  mechanism in the lung tumorigenesis  observed in  mice. Results  will be 
provided post-marketing. 
•  Reproductive and developmental studies 
Studies  were  undertaken  to  assess  the  potential  for  rasagiline  to  adversely  affect  fertility  and 
reproductive  performance  and  peri-  and  postnatal-  development  in  rats  and  embryo-foetal 
development  in  rats  and  rabbits.  Studies  of  the  potential  to  adversely  affect  embryo-foetal 
development by co-administration of rasagiline/levodopa/carbidopa were also undertaken in response 
to advice and comments received from US FDA reviewers.  
Despite an  evident dose-dependent lowering of serum prolactin, administration of  rasagiline to  male 
rats at doses of 0.5, 2.0 and 5.0 mg/kg/day from 28 days prior to cohabitation with untreated female 
rats  did  not  affect  the  fertility  or  reproductive  performance  of  male  rats.  Similarly  there  were  no 
adverse effects on fertility and reproductive performance or embryo-foetal development in a study in 
which females were treated, from 14 days prior to cohabitation with untreated males until day 17 post 
coitum, at doses of 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg/day. 
8/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
When oral doses of 1, 7, and 45 mg/kg/day were administered to female rabbits on days 6 to 20 post 
coitum,  mean  post-implantation  losses  were  increased  and  mean  foetal  weight  was  reduced  at  the 
maternally  toxic  dose  of  45  mg/kg/day.  There  were  no  other  adverse  effects  on  embryo  foetal 
development. 
There  was an increased incidence  of  wavy ribs in rat  foetuses  obtained  from  dams that were treated 
with  rasagiline/levodopa/carbidopa  at  ≥0.3/80/20  mg/kg/day  on  days  8  to  17  post  coitum.  No 
toxicological  importance  was  attached  to  this  finding  since  it  is  documented  as  a  transient  and 
reversible  phenomenon  which  most  probably  results  from  disturbances  of  the  materno-placental 
circulation. 
Co-administration  of  rasagiline/levodopa/carbidopa  at  doses  of  0.1/80/20,  0.6/80/20  or  1.2/80/20  on 
days 6 to 18 post coitum elicited maternal toxicity in rabbits with increased mean implantation losses 
at 0.6/80/20 and 1.2/80/20 mg/kg/day. 
A pilot investigation indicated that doses ≥3 mg/kg suppressed lactation in rats so an assessment of the 
potential to adversely affect peri- and post-natal development in rats was carried out at doses of 0.1, 
0.3 and 1.0  mg/kg/day.  Maternal toxicity  was seen  at 0.3 and 1.0  mg/kg/day  with slightly increased 
pup mortality at 0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg/day and lower mean pup weight from birth to day 35 post partum 
at  1.0  mg/kg/day.  There  were  no  apparent  effect  on  the  development  and  behavior  of  neither  the 
offspring nor their reproductive ability. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
2-Cl-AAI is a potential degradation product of the hydrochloride salt of rasagiline that tested positive 
in the bacterial reverse mutation assay when incubated in the presence of activated liver S9 fraction. 
To check for the potential presence of 2-Cl-AAI at the time of release and during stability studies of 
the drug product, a limit of 30 ppm was initially set as the release and stability specifications of the 
drug product. Further to a CHMP request to lower the specification limit of 2-Cl-AAI, the company 
decided to tighten the limit in the  drug product  to 20 ppm,  which is well below  the  maximum  daily 
value of 1.5µg being currently discussed as acceptable for genotoxic impurities. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant presented a report according to which the crude Predicted Environmental Concentration 
g/l  and  therefore  can  be  considered  as  an 
of  rasagiline  mesilate  in  surface  water  is  below  0.01 
environmentally safe medicinal product. 
µ
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The precise mechanisms of action of rasagiline are unknown. In a series of in vitro and in vivo studies 
rasagiline was shown to be a highly potent, selective, irreversible monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-
B)  inhibitor.  Rasagiline  MAO-B  inhibitory  activity  causes  an  increase  in  extracellular  levels  of 
dopamine  in  the  striatum.  The  elevated  dopamine  level  and  subsequent  increased  dopaminergic 
activity  are  likely  to  mediate  rasagiline’s  beneficial  effects  seen  in  models  of  dopaminergic  motor 
dysfunction. 
In addition, rasagiline showed some effects on cognition in animal models and neuroprotective effects 
in  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  models.  The  neuroprotective  activity  of  rasagiline  is  independent  of  its 
MAO  inhibitory  activity,  and  may  be  mediated  by  other  mechanisms.  Aminoindan,  a  major 
metabolite,  which is not  an  MAO inhibitor, also showed  an  effect in  models  of impaired  motor and 
cognitive  functions. Nevertheless, animal  models and  in vitro data  of  neuroprotective  effects  have  a 
very poor history of predicting clinical benefit. 
Rasagiline  is  rapidly  absorbed  and  quickly  metabolized.  It  has  a  very  large  volume  of  distribution 
equivalent to several times total body  water. Protein  binding is in  the region  of 70-90%  for animals 
and from 88-94% in man. The metabolic profile of rasagiline is qualitatively similar for animals and 
humans. The radioactive label of a 14C-rasagiline is eliminated predominantly in the urine, 80-90% of 
the dose being recoverable. 
After intravenous and oral  dosing the principal  manifestations of toxicity  were  related to the loss  of 
selectivity for MAO-B (i.e. reduced food intake and weight gain and hyperactivity and/or aggression 
in rats). 
9/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
In vitro genotoxicity studies were equivocal but studies with rasagiline mesylate or the combination of 
rasagiline with levodopa/carbidopa did not show genotoxic potential in vivo. The genotoxic potential 
of the combination was not evaluated in vitro. 
Increased incidences of combined lung adenomas/adenocarcinomas were observed in mice. Incidence 
was within the range of historical control, exposure in animal was much more higher than in clinical 
situation and there were no signals in the rat study. Considering the equivocal genotoxic potential and 
the  lack  of  plausible  explanation  for lung  tumor  development  in  mice,  a  further  test  addressing  the 
involvement  of  a  genotoxic  mechanism  in  the  lung  tumorigenesis  observed  in  mice  has  been 
requested. 
To  further  investigate  the  possibility  of  a  mouse-unique  metabolite,  that  may  be  responsible  for  the 
results  observed  in  the  mutagenicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies,  the  applicant  initiated  a  study 
designed  to  compare  rasagiline  metabolites  in  mice  and  rats  biofluids  to  those  in  humans.  A  minor 
metabolite, with a yet unknown structure was found in plasma and urine of mice. This metabolite at a 
much lower dose-relative levels was also found in rats, but was not found in human plasma and urine. 
Further studies to elucidate this metabolite’s structure and then to evaluate its mutagenic potential are 
ongoing and will be submitted post-marketing. 
Although the mechanistic explanation is still lacking, the fact that tumours were observed in mice only 
may reduce the concern regarding human safety. Genotoxic and carcinogenic data are summarised in 
the section 5.3 of the SmPC. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacokinetic studies included: 
-  Pharmacokinetics of rasagiline (and aminoindan) in healthy subject following single dose 
(from 1 to 20 mg) and multiple doses (from 2 to 10 mg, for 10 days). 
-  Absorption, pharmacokinetics, plasma protein binding, metabolism and elimination of 
rasagiline following single doses of 3.2 mg 14C-labeled rasagiline to healthy male volunteers. 
-  A bioequivalence study of the clinical trials and commercial formulation of rasagiline. 
-  A cross-over ‘fed and fasting’ study in healthy male volunteers. 
-  Multiple Dose Phase II Studies in Parkinson Patients (not Receiving Levodopa/Carbidopa 
Treatment, Receiving Chronic Levodopa/ Carbidopa Treatment, Receiving Chronic Levodopa 
Treatment, and Receiving Chronic Levodopa/Carbidopa or Levodopa/Benserazide Treatment) 
-  Population pharmacokinetic analyses in the target population were presented from two of the 
main clinical studies (TEMPO and PRESTO). 
-  Studies in renal impairment and hepatic impairment.  
- 
Interaction studies with ciprofloxacin and theophylline. 
 Pharmacodynamic studies included: 
-  Evaluation of the MAO-B inhibitory properties within several PK studies, 
-  Study P94159 evaluated the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between rasagiline 
and tyramine in healthy volunteers.  
-  Study 132 was a ten week evaluation of the safety and tolerability of rasagiline 1 and 2 
mg/day concomitantly administered with oral tyramine in 20 Parkinson’s disease patients  on  
levodopa treatment. 
Pivotal clinical studies consisted of  
- 
- 
a on monotherapy study: TEMPO study, 
and 2 studies with rasagiline as add-on to levodopa – PRESTO and LARGO studies. 
10/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
According with the documentation provided all studies were undertaken in accordance the principles 
of Good Clinical Practice. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The analytical method used capillary gas chromatography/negative ion chemical ionisation mass 
spectrometry.  The lower limit of quantitation was 0.250 ng/mL and the assay was linear in the range 
0.250 ng/nL to 25 ng/mL. 
•  Absorption – Bioavailability 
Rasagiline  is  rapidly  absorbed  following  oral  administration,  with  an  absolute  bioavailability  of 
approximately  36%,  indicating  that  rasagiline  undergoes  a  significant  first-pass  metabolism. 
Maximum  plasma  concentrations  of  rasagiline  (Cmax  ~10  ng/mL)  are  reached  at  approximately  0.5 
hours  after  oral  administration  (2  mg)  in  healthy  subjects.  In  a  mass  balance  study,  after  oral 
administration of 2 mg 14C-rasagiline, at least 60% of the radioactive dose was absorbed.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  2  mg  rasagiline  administered  following  a  high  fat  meal  or  under  fasted 
conditions was compared. Administration of rasagiline with a high fat meal resulted in a decrease in 
extent  of  absorption  (Cmax)  and  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  by  about  60%  and  20%,  respectively. 
Considering that inhibition is irreversible and long-lasting and will increase over time in repeat dosing, 
the  reduced  Cmax  is  not  expected  to  affect  the  pharmacodynamic  of  the  product.  Considering  that  a 
decrease of 20% AUC should not have clinical consequence, no specific recommendation with regard 
to administration with food was considered necessary. 
•  Bioequivalence 
A comparative in vivo bioequivalence study was performed demonstrating bioequivalence of the two 1 
mg  formulations:  1  mg  Formulation  II, used  for  the  clinical  trials  and  1  mg  intended  for  marketing 
tablet. 
•  Distribution 
The pharmacokinetic disposition of rasagiline is best characterised by a two-compartment open model 
with first-order absorption and first-order elimination.   
Rasagiline  appears  to  be  widely  distributed,  with  a  mean  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (Vd)  of 
about  243  l  following  a  single  dose  IV  administration  (2  mg).  The  large  Vd  is  related  to  the 
irreversible  binding  of  rasagiline  to  MAO  in  the  body  and  is  consistent  with  the  findings  in  the 
population PK studies. 
The blood cell-to-plasma ratio for rasagiline derived radioactive material ranged from 0.1 to 1.2 with a 
mean ratio across time of 0.2 to 0.7, indicating that association and/or distribution of rasagiline and/or 
its metabolites into blood cells is not extensive. 
•  Metabolism and Elimination 
Rasagiline is extensively metabolised in the liver following oral administration. In vitro studies have 
shown  that  CYP1A2  is  the  predominant  P450  isoform  involved  in  the  metabolic  elimination  of 
rasagiline.   
The  primary  human  plasma  metabolite  formed  following  biotransformation  of  rasagiline  is 
aminoindan.  The  proposed  principal  biotransformation  pathways  of  rasagiline  in  human  are  N-
dealkylation, hydroxylation  of the indan ring, along  with Phase II N or O-conjugation, including N-
glucuronidation of the parent drug and of its metabolites. 
There  was  no  bioconversion  of  rasagiline  mesylate  (R  enantiomer)  to  its  S  enantiomer  within  the 
human body, as determined in plasma samples for healthy volunteers dosed with rasagiline. Rasagiline 
is not metabolised to amphetamine or methamphetamine.  
Rasagiline is eliminated with a half-life of about 0.6-2 hours and ranging from 0.3 to 3.5 hours across 
the 0.5 to 20  mg dose range  examined  following  oral administration. Following a single IV  dose (2 
mg)  in  healthy subjects, the  mean total body  clearance  (CLtotal) for rasagiline is about 100 l/h (1668 
ml/min). Less than 1% of the orally administered dose is excreted as unchanged drug in urine.   
11/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
About 60% of the rasagiline derived radioactivity was excreted in urine and about 7% was excreted in 
the  faeces  over a 7-day period. Elimination  was not  complete in 7  days, and slow  excretion,  mostly 
faecal,  continued  with  an  estimated  half-life  of  about  16  days.  Prolonged  excretion  of  radioactive 
material occurred possibly due to long-term irreversible binding of rasagiline to MAO enzyme in the 
body. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  was  assessed  as  part  of  the  dose  ranging  studies  in  healthy  subjects  and  PD 
patients. Rasagiline kinetics is apparently linear in the studied dose range of 0.5 to 2 mg per day.  
•  Special populations 
In  subjects  with  mild  impairment  of  hepatic  function  (Child-Pugh  class  A),  the  apparent  rasagiline 
clearance (CL/F) was reduced (42% decrease) resulting in increases in AUC (80%) and Cmax (38%).  
In subjects with moderate impairment of hepatic function (Child-Pugh class B) the apparent rasagiline 
clearance was more markedly reduced (82% decrease) resulting in increases in AUC (568%) and Cmax 
(83%), compared to subjects with no hepatic impairment. Since impaired hepatic function has major 
influence  on  the  PK  of  rasagiline,  rasagiline  should  be  contraindicated  in  patient  with  severe 
impairement,  be  avoided  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  and  caution  is  necessary  in 
patients with mild hepatic insufficiency.  
In subjects with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CLcr] = 50-80 mL/min) slightly higher 
AUC  (38%)  was  observed,  while  Cmax  was  unchanged.  In  subjects  with  moderate  renal  impairment  
(CLcr = 30-49 mL/min), AUC and Cmax were 33% and 44% higher, respectively, compared to healthy 
subjects  (CLcr    >80  mL/min).  In  population  PK  studies  serum  creatinine  clearance  was  tested  as  a 
covariate  but  found  not  to  be  significant.  For  the  primary  metabolite,  aminoindan,  similar  and 
significant differences in PK were observed in both mild and moderate renal impaired groups. Since 
impaired renal function has little influence on the PK of rasagiline and aminoindan is not an MAO-B 
inhibitor, no change in dosage is required for mild and moderate renal impairment. 
Due to rasagiline  metabolism through CYP1A2,  information  regarding the potential interaction with 
smoking (CYP1A2  inducer)  was performed in two population PK analyses performed as part  of the 
pivotal studies PRESTO and TEMPO. In  PRESTO analysis  study, there  was no significant effect  of 
tobacco  smoking  on  rasagiline  pharmacokinetic.  The  results  of  the  TEMPO  analysis  indicated  that 
rasagiline  clearance  was  increased  in  tobacco  smokers  by  39%.  In  both  studies  only  5%  of  the 
participants  were  smokers.  The  induction  effect  of  tobacco  on  CYP  1A2  is  therefore  unclear.  As  a 
consequence, it should stated in the SPC that there is a risk that the plasma levels in smoking patients 
could be decreased, due to induction of the metabolising enzyme CYP1A2. 
• 
Interaction studies 
In vitro studies showed that rasagiline (1 µg/mL) caused no significant inhibition (<25% in all cases) 
of  the  model  substrates,  ethoxyresorufin,  coumarin, 
tolbutamide,  S-mephenytoin,  bufuralol, 
chlorzoxazone, testosterone, and lauric acid.  In addition, rasagiline  did  not  cause  mechanism-based 
inhibition  of  P450  isoforms.  Therefore,  rasagiline  at  therapeutic  concentrations  is  unlikely  to  cause 
any  clinically  significant  interference  with  substrates  of  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP4A.  
However,  following  co-administration  of  rasagiline  and  ciprofloxacin,  a  CYP1A2  inhibitor,  the 
metabolism  of  rasagiline  to  aminoindan  was  inhibited.  For  rasagiline,  this  inhibition  resulted  in  an 
increase  in  AUC  of  83-98%  (AUC0-inf  to  AUC0-t,  respectively).  Although  Cmax  remained  nearly 
unchanged,  tmax  was  delayed  by  approximately  30  minutes  (68%).  For  aminoindan,  overall  plasma 
levels were reduced, by 29% and 21% for Cmax and AUC, respectively. As a general precaution, care 
must be taken  when rasagiline is  co-administered  with  compounds that inhibit CYP 1A2 because  of 
the risk of  increase of rasagiline plasma levels. 
The lack of effect of rasagiline on metabolising enzymes was confirmed in a clinical study in which 
theophylline, a CYP1A2 substrate, was co-administered with rasagiline. There was no PK interaction 
between theophylline and rasagiline  when the two  drugs  were administered  concomitantly. Thus, no 
dose adjustment is necessary when theophylline and rasagiline are co-administered.  
12/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Rasagiline should  not  be administered  along  with  other  MAO inhibitors because  of the risk  of  non-
selective MAO inhibition that may lead to a hypertensive crisis. 
Serious adverse events have been reported with the concomitant use of fluoxetine or fluvoxamine and 
MAO  inhibitors  including  a  selective  MAO-B  inhibitor.  Therefore,  in  view  of  rasagiline’s  MAO 
inhibitory activity the concomitant administration of rasagiline and fluoxetine or fluvoxamine should 
be avoided. 
Rasagiline has a high binding potential to human plasma proteins as indicated by an in vitro binding 
study  that  showed  binding  between  88  to  94%  across  the  concentration  range  of  1-10,000  ng/ml. 
However,  binding  to  isolated  proteins,  albumin  and  alpha-1-acid  glycoprotein,  which  are  the  most 
common serum binding proteins for drugs, was low and ranged around 64% for albumin and 34-64% 
for alpha-1-acid glycoprotein. It is therefore unlikely that rasagiline will compete or will be displaced 
by any of the drugs that are known to be extensively bound to plasma proteins. In vivo, rasagiline is 
rapidly  metabolized  and  the  metabolites  formed  are  of  low  binding  activity.  Moreover,  rasagiline  is 
administered at a very low dose of 1 mg/day, therefore, it should not have a potential for displacing 
other drugs in a clinically relevant manner. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
The  precise  mechanisms  of  action  of  rasagiline  are  unknown.  Only  the  MAO-B  inhibitory  activity, 
which  causes  an  increase  in  extracellular  levels  of  dopamine  in  the  striatum,  was  documented  in 
human studies (see below). The other putative pharmacodynamic mechanisms are based on in vitro or 
animal data. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In  a  series  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  rasagiline  was  shown  to  be  a  highly  potent,  selective, 
irreversible monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) inhibitor. 
The  evaluation  of  the  MAO-B  inhibitory  properties  of  rasagiline  was  done  within  the  protocols  of 
several pharmacokinetic studies. In healthy subjects and Parkinson’s disease patients, rasagiline single 
or multiple administrations at all evaluated doses ranging from 0.5 mg/day to 10 mg/day significantly 
inhibits platelet MAO-B activity. MAO-B activity inhibition is maintained from at least one week to 
several weeks following cessation of rasagiline administration, with recovery between 2-6 weeks. The 
inhibition produced in PD patients taking or not levodopa is less marked than in healthy volunteers. 
In  Parkinson’s  disease  patients  on  chronic  levodopa  treatment,  multiple  administration  of  rasagiline 
doses of 1 to 4 mg/day resulted in nearly complete MAO-B inhibition.  In patients treated with 1 or 2 
mg/day rasagiline, inhibition of MAO-B activity of >90% was reached within 1 to 3 weeks of dosing.  
No correlation of inhibition to dose was found in this study. Inhibition of platelet MAO-B activity was 
maintained for more than 1 month following dose cessation. 
It  is  noteworthy  that  none  of  the  putative  effect  of  rasagiline,  as  anti-depressant  and  cognitive 
enhancer, suggested by the animal data, were specifically studied. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Based  on  data  with  other  MAO  inhibitors,  due  to  potential  for  pharmacodynamic  interaction  with 
other  MAO  inhibitors,  sympathomimetic  agents,  antidepressants  and  the  opioids  pethidine  and 
dextromethorphan, the following recommendation have been included in the SPC: 
-  Concomitant  treatment  with  other  monoamine  oxydase  inhibitors  (MAOI)  or  pethidine  is 
contraindicated, 
-  The concomitant use of rasagiline and fluoxetine or fluvoxamine should be avoided, 
-  The  concomitant  use  of  rasagiline  and  dextromethorphan  or  sympathomimetics  including 
nasal and oral decongestants and cold remedies is not recommended, 
-  Antidepressants should be administered with caution. 
The applicant provided data to support that 15-day washout is sufficient to eliminate the majority of 
the  rasagiline  effect  on  MAO;  some  of  the  effect  might  persist  for  longer  but  with  unlikely  clinical 
13/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
relevance.  Accordingly  it is reasonable to propose a  washout  of 2  weeks before putative interacting 
products like SSRIs are initiated. 
Tyramine interaction 
The risk of hypertensive crisis with non-selective MAO inhibitors following intake of indirectly acting 
sympathomimetic  amines  such  as  tyramine  is  well  recognized  and  can  be  potentiated  in  subjects 
receiving concomitant LD. Reversible MAOIs or doses of irreversible MAO-inhibitors that maintain 
selectivity for the B-form of the enzyme would not be expected to interact with tyramine. 
As part of the rasagiline clinical program four clinical pharmacology studies were conducted to assess 
the  potential  pressor  effect  of  tyramine  when  given  concomitantly  with  rasagiline.  One  study  was 
conducted  in  healthy  volunteers  and  the  others  were  conducted  in  PD  patients  (with  and  without 
levodopa);  one  pharmacodynamic  interaction  study  (study  132),  one  sub-study  of  TEMPO  and  one 
sub-study  of  PRESTO.  In  all  challenge  studies  a  Holter  monitor  was  used  for  continuous  blood 
pressure measurements. 
In the healthy volunteer study, the results showed that once daily 1 mg rasagiline did not increase the 
sensitivity for tyramine compared to placebo. An increase in sensitivity to tyramine was observed for 
subjects  receiving  2  mg  rasagiline  and  10  mg  selegiline  and  differences  between  the  rasagiline  and 
selegiline groups were not statistically significant. 
Study 132 was conducted in 20 PD patients chronically treated with levodopa. Two patients on 2 mg 
in  the  study  showed  a  tyramine  pressor  effect.  Nevertheless,  they  were  exposed  to  unrealistic 
conditions: 
- at fasting (while administration  of tyramine in  food (particularly lipid) reduces by about three-fold 
the bioavailability of tyramine), 
- with high doses of tyramine (75-225 mg compared to a maximum of 40 mg in a rich   tyramine meal)  
- and with double of the proposed clinical dose of rasagiline.  
In the two tyramine challenge sub-studies of pivotal studies (monotherapy and adjunct to levodopa), a 
high dose tyramine  challenge  was performed  following 6  months  of treatment in  order to show that 
MAO-B selectivity is maintained after long term exposure. The tyramine was given with a light meal 
to avoid extreme conditions. None of the patients had a tyramine pressor effect. 
Finally, in the total non-tyramine restricted exposure to rasagiline (0.5 mg, 1 mg, 2 mg) database over 
410 patient years on rasagiline alone and over 660 patient years on rasagiline and levodopa. None of 
these patients had event that could be considered a result of a potential tyramine/rasagiline interaction. 
In  conclusion,  although  tyramine/rasagiline  interaction  is  not  nil,  it  is  sufficiently  mild  not  to 
determine  an  unacceptable  risk  and  rasagiline  1mg/day  can  be  used  without  dietary  tyramine 
restrictions. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  primary  objectives  in  the  clinical  development  program  were  to  show  that  rasagiline  as 
monotherapy improves PD symptoms in early PD, and that it provides symptomatic benefit as adjunct 
therapy to LD in advanced PD complicated by motor fluctuations.   
There were three main clinical studies: 
- 
- 
a monotherapy study: TEMPO study 
and 2 studies with rasagiline as add-on to levodopa – PRESTO and LARGO studies. 
14/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Study No. 
Design 
Treatment groups 
Patients 
Entered/ 
Study 
Duration 
Completed 
TVP1012/232 
(TEMPO 
Placebo-
Controlled 
Phase) 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled/active-
controlled, 
parallel group 
Placebo-Controlled Phase 
56 weeks 
Group 1: 
1 mg qd for 26 weeks 
134/125 
Group 2: 
1 mg qd for 1 wk + 2 mg qd for 25 
wks 
Group 3: 
Placebo for 26 weeks 
(Placebo-
controlle
d  for  the 
first 
26 
weeks 
and 
double-
blind 
active 
phase  for 
the 
remainin
g 
weeks) 
26 
132/124 
138/133 
124/120 
TVP1012/232 
Dose-Controlled Phase* 
(TEMPO 
Dose-
Controlled 
Phase*) 
Group 1: 
1 mg qd for 26 weeks 
Group 2: 
2 mg qd for 26 weeks 
Group 3: 
1 mg qd for 1 wk + 2 mg qd for 25 
wks 
124/118 
132/122 
TVP1012/122 
(LARGO) 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
Group 1: 
18 weeks 
1 mg qd for 18 weeks 
231/208 
double-dummy, 
randomised, 
active- 
placebo-
controlled 
and 
Group 2: 
Entacapone  200  mg  with  each 
levodopa dose for 18 weeks 
Group 3: 
Placebo for 18 weeks 
227/197 
229/194 
TVP10121/133 
(PRESTO) 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel group 
Group 1: 
26 weeks 
0.5 mg qd for 26 weeks 
164/142 
Group 2: 
1 mg with qd for 26 weeks 
Group 3: 
Placebo for 26 weeks 
149/132 
159/140 
15/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Patients who had received rasagiline during the placebo-controlled phase (groups 1 and 2) continued 
on the same treatment dose. Patients of group 3 who had originally been randomised to placebo began 
rasagiline treatment. 
•  Dose response study 
No formal dose response studies were conducted. Based on experimental data on potency of rasagiline 
compared  to  selegiline  and  early  clinical  data  in  patients  with  doses  up  to  10  mg/day,  the  doses 
selected for the monotherapy, Phase III, double-blind, placebo-controlled TEMPO study were 1 and 2 
mg/day. Since both rasagiline doses were found to be clinically comparable, the 1 mg/day was chosen 
as the recommended dose for monotherapy. Rasagiline 1 mg/day was chosen as the highest dose for 
the PRESTO and LARGO adjunct therapy studies in  advanced PD patients  experiencing LD-related 
motor fluctuations. A dose response evaluation of rasagiline 0.5 mg/day was included in the PRESTO 
study. 0.5 mg is significantly less efficacious than 1 mg. 
•  Main studies 
Monotherapy – TEMPO study 
METHODS 
This  was  a  North  American,  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  parallel,  two-phase,  Phase  III 
clinical  study.  A  26-week,  placebo-controlled  treatment  phase  was  followed  by  a  26-week  dose-
treatment phase (i.e. rasagi1ine 1 or 2 mg qd). 
Objectives 
The  objectives  of  this  study  were  to  assess  the  efficacy,  tolerability  and  safety  of  two  doses  of 
rasagiline in early PD patients who were not receiving or did not require levodopa/carbidopa (LD/CD) 
therapy. 
Study Participants  
≤
3 in USA 
To be included in the study, patients were required to have idiopathic PD with a severity of 
or  <3  in  Canada  on  the  Modified  Hoehn  and  Yahr  scale.  For  at  least  six  weeks  prior  to  baseline, 
patients could not be treated with LD or dopamine agonists. Prior to baseline, washout periods from 
amantadine,  LD  or  dopamine  agonists,  selegiline,  selective  serotonin  re-uptake  inhibitors  (SSRI), 
other  antidepressants  (except  for  amitriptyline  and  trazodone)  and  meperidine  (pethidine),  were 
required.  
Exclusion  Criteria included:  Anti-PD  medications  except  for  anti-cholinergics.  Clinically  significant 
malignancy,  vascular disorders, psychiatric illness and abnormal  clinically significant laboratory test 
results. 
Treatments 
Early stage PD patients were initially randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of two daily doses (1 or 2 mg) 
of rasagiline or placebo. In the second phase, patients who had originally been randomized to placebo 
began treatment with a dose of 1 mg/day for one week and then were treated with 2 mg/day. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  end-point  was  the  change  in  total  Unified  Parkinson’s  Disease  Rating  Scale 
(UPDRS)  from  baseline  to  termination  visit  (Week  26).  UPDRS  has  a  total  of  44  items  in  three 
categories, mental function, daily living, and neurological (motor) examination; each item is scored 0 
– 4, giving a possible range of 0 – 176, with higher scores denoting worse disease. 
Secondary criteria were responder analysis (a posteriori definition), change in the UPDRS sub-scales, 
time to the need for levodopa therapy, and the proportion of patients requiring levodopa. 
Regarding the dose-controlled phase and overall study period, the efficacy measure was the change in 
total UPDRS scores, calculated from baseline (Week 0) to last observed value before additional anti-
PD therapy was administered, comparing rasagiline 1 and 2 mg/day treatment groups with placebo/2 
mg group. 
16/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Sample size 
The sample size  was  based  on the assumption that there would be a treatment advantage of three  or 
more  points  in  the  UPDRS  score  of  rasagiline  2  mg,  with  an  advantage  of  0  –  3  for  1  mg  and  a 
standard deviation of 8.75 UPDRS scores on the basis of published studies. Given α set at 0.05 and 
approximately 80% power then 120 patients were needed per treatment arm. 
Randomisation 
Eligible  patients  were  allocated  to  one  of  the  three  treatment  groups  using  a  randomization  scheme 
with blocks stratified by center. 
Statistical methods 
Intent-To-Treat cohort (ITT) includes all patients who have been randomized.  
Completers cohort (CO) includes all the patients who  completed 26 weeks of the placebo-controlled 
phase and patients that needed LD therapy during that phase and entered the dose-treatment phase.  
Per  Protocol  Cohort  (PP)  includes  all  patients  who  completed  26  weeks  of  the  placebo-controlled 
phase (including patients that needed LD therapy) and did not have major protocol violations. 
For  the  ITT  cohort,  the  LOCF  approach  was  applied  to  account  for  missing  data  at  the  placebo-
controlled  phase  termination  (Week  26).  For  the  Dose-Treatment  phase  and  Efficacy  Cohorts,  the 
LOCF approach was applied to account for missing data at study termination (Week 52). 
RESULTS 
The baseline characteristics are shown in the table below. 
No. Recruited 
No. completed (6-month) 
Age (SD:) in years 
Proportion male (%) 
Disease duration 
Rasagiline 1 mg  Rasagiline 2 mg 
Placebo 
134 
111 
132 
105 
138 
102 
61.6 (10.3) 
60.4 (11.4) 
60.5 (10.8) 
67 
56 
67 
0.93 (1.2) 
1.16 (1.3) 
0.94 (1.1) 
Baseline total UPDRS 
24.69 (11.25) 
25.89 (9.54) 
24.54 (11.61) 
Participant flow 
Four hundred  and seventy-three (473) patients  were screened. Of these, 404 (84%) patients  enrolled 
into this study. 
Around 80 % of patients completed the 6-month, placebo-controlled phase. The differences between 
treatment groups in the number of patients with premature termination or the time on study to 
termination were not statistically significant.  
Recruitment 
Despite the  relatively  wide  entry  criteria  the  actual  patients  being  recruited  were  mildly  affected  as 
evidenced  by  the  mean  UPDRS  motor  score  of  about  25.  Around  1/3  of  all  enrolled  patients  had 
received  dopaminergic  products before  enrollment and 1/6  of  enrolled patients  were in  stage Hoehn 
and Yahr III (presence of abnormal postural reflexes) that is an indicator of at least moderate disease. 
Baseline data 
The mean age was 61 years (range 32-92); 64% males. About 95% of the patients were Caucasians. 
Disease  duration  for  all  treatment  groups  was  similar.  On  average,  mean  disease  duration  in  all 
treatment groups was one year at study entry.  
17/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
Baseline disease characteristics were comparable between treatment groups. No statistical significant 
differences were demonstrated between groups, except for higher scores in the rasagiline 2 mg group 
of UPDRS mental scale and a boundary significance of Severity of Illness scale. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The main efficacy results are shown in the table below. 
Rasagiline 1 mg  Rasagiline 2 mg 
Placebo 
No. Recruited 
134 
132 
138 
Adjusted mean change from baseline in 
total UPDRS [95% CI] 
-0.13 [-1.16, 
0.91] 
0.51 [-0.55, 1.57] 
4.07 [3.04, 
5.1] 
Adjusted mean change in UPDRS 
Motor 
Adjusted mean change in UPDRS 
ADL 
-038 
0.16 
0.65 
-0.02 
2.33 
1.20 
The principal statistical analysis compared the mean change from baseline in total UPDRS for each of 
the active-treatment groups to placebo (two contrasts) using ANCOVA adjusted for baseline UPDRS, 
treatment,  center  and  treatment-by-center  interaction.  Following  26  weeks  of  treatment,  the  change 
from baseline UPDRS differed significantly between the treatment group and the placebo (p<0.0001 
for  both  contrasts  using  Hochberg’s  Step-up  Bonferroni  procedure  for  multiple  comparisons).  The 
adjusted  mean  changes  from  baseline  in  total  UPDRS  score  are  presented  in  the  table  above.  The 
treatment effect exerted by 1 and 2 mg rasagiline was therefore -4.20 (95% CI:[-5.66,-2.73]) and -3.56 
(95% CI: [-5.04,-2.08]), respectively. 
Responder Analysis: Non-responders were defined as patients with a worsening of 3 or more points in 
total  UPDRS.  All  other  patients  were  considered  responders.  About  two-thirds  of  rasagiline-treated 
patients but only approximately half of the placebo-treated patients were classified as responders at the 
end  of  the  26-week,  placebo-controlled  phase.  The  difference  between  each  one  of  the  rasagiline 
groups and placebo was statistically significant (1 mg vs. placebo: Odds Ratio 2.2, 95% CI [1.3, 3.7] 
p=0.0038; 2 mg vs. placebo: Odds Ratio 2.5, 95% CI [1.4, 4.2] p=0.0011 using Hochberg’s Step-up 
Bonferroni procedure for multiple comparisons.  
Most results on secondary end-points are consistent with the primary-ones favoring the superiority of 
rasagiline over placebo.  
o  Following  the  26-week  placebo-controlled  phase,  mean  UPDRS  Motor  score  was  not 
significantly different from baseline in patients on both rasagiline doses. UPDRS Motor scores 
were  increased  by  a  mean  of  14%  in  placebo-treated  patients.  Compared  to  placebo,  the 
adjusted mean treatment effect was (-2.71, 95% CI [-3.87, -1.55] p<0.0001) in patients treated 
with 1 mg/day and (-1.68, 95% CI [-2.85, -0.51] p=0.0050) in patients treated with 2-mg/day 
rasagiline. 
o  Following  26-week  treatment  period,  patients  on  both  doses  of  rasagiline  maintained  mean 
ADL  scores  similar  to  baseline,  while  patients  on  placebo  experienced  an  increase  of  about 
19%  in  their  mean  ADL  score.  Compared  to  placebo,  significant  treatment  effects  were 
detected in the 1  mg/day  (-1.04, 95% CI [-1.60, -0.48], p=0.0003) and the 2  mg/day  (-1.22, 
95% CI [-1.79, -0.65] p<0.0001) treatment groups. 
o  In the Global Improvement evaluation, following 26 weeks of treatment, a significantly (p = 
0.015) greater percentage of patients (72.9%) treated with 1 mg rasagiline experienced global 
improvement or no decline compared to placebo (62.3%). 
o  Following  26  weeks  of  treatment,  Quality  of  Life  (QOL)  scores  did  not  differ  significantly 
from  baseline  in  actively  treated  patients;  a  9.6%  increase  from  baseline  in  QOL  score  was 
observed  in  patients  treated  with  placebo  indicating  deterioration  Compared  to  placebo,  a 
significant treatment effect was observed in patients treated with 1 mg /day (-2.91, 95% CI [-
5.19, -0.64], p=0.0122) and 2 mg /day (-2.74, 95% CI [-5.02, -0.45], p=0.0191) rasagiline. 
18/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
No difference between groups was detected regarding the time to LD need. The proportion of patients 
who did not need LD was similar in treatment groups (88.8% in the 1 mg group and 83.3% in each of 
the other groups). 
Dose controlled phase: 
382 patients completed the placebo controlled phase of the study, of which 380 continued into the 
active treatment phase. The figure below shows mean change from baseline in total UPDRS. 
Study 232 mean change from baseline in Total UPDRS Efficacy cohort 
scheduled visit LOCF (vertical line shows change from placebo control)
e
r
o
c
S
S
R
D
P
U
5
4
3
2
1
0
-1
-2
-3
1 mg
2 mg
PBO
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Study week
Long-term open extension 
The long-term open extension of the TEMPO study enabled the follow-up of patients for more than 5 
years.  Of  the  patients  who  completed  2  years  of  treatment  81.5%  were  still  on  rasagiline,  without 
levodopa treatment. Of the patients who completed 5 years of treatment 40% were still on rasagiline, 
without levodopa treatment. 
Adjunct treatment trials  
PRESTO study 
METHODS 
PRESTO was a multicenter, US and Canada, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-
group  study,  for  the  efficacy,  tolerability  and  safety  of  rasagiline  mesylate  in  levodopa  treated 
Parkinson’s disease patients with motor fluctuations. 
Objectives 
To evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of 0.5 mg and 1 mg of rasagiline, once daily, versus 
placebo in subjects with levodopa-treated Parkinson’s disease (PD) and motor fluctuations. 
Study Participants  
Eligible subjects were aged 30 years or older and had  idiopathic PD confirmed by the presence of at 
least  two  of  the  cardinal  signs  for  PD  (resting  tremor,  bradykinesia  and  rigidity)  graded  on  the 
Modified Hoehn and Yahr  as stage <5 in the  “OFF”  state.   Included  were subjects  who  chronically 
used  levodopa  and  experienced  motor  fluctuations  averaging  at  least  2.5  hours  daily  in  the  “OFF” 
state,  confirmed by the baseline  home  diaries. Subjects were required to demonstrate  competence in 
diary  completion.    Subjects  were  permitted  to  maintain  stable  doses  of  other  anti-PD  medications.  
Prior  to  baseline,  subjects  were  required  to  discontinue  and  washout  of  selegiline,  antidepressants 
meperidine  (pethidine),  tolcapone,  sympathomimetics,  dextromethorphan,  St.  John’s  Wort  and 
19/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
gentamicin.  Amitriptyline,  trazodone,  citalopram,  paroxetine,  and  sertraline  were  allowed  at  stable, 
low doses.  
Any of the following excluded subjects from participation in the study: severe disabling dyskinesias, 
previous  use  of  rasagiline,  neurosurgical  intervention  for  PD  within  the  12  months  preceding  the 
baseline  visit,  clinically  significant  malignancy,  severe  hypertension,  severe  orthostatic  hypotension 
vascular  disorders,  psychiatric  illness  (Beck  depression  scale 
15),  cognitive  impairment  (MMSE 
≥
≤
score 
 24) and clinically significant abnormal laboratory test results. 
Treatments 
Following a screening visit and screening period to ensure that subjects met all enrollment criteria and 
could accurately complete home diaries, subjects were randomly assigned to treatment at the baseline 
visit.  The levodopa dose could be decreased for the first 6 weeks of the study period at the discretion 
of the investigator, but remained constant for the last 20 weeks.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy criterion was change from baseline in OFF time as recorded by use of home 
diaries filled in for half hourly intervals for the three days prior to clinic visits at baseline, at weeks 6, 
14 and 26 (termination). 
Secondary criteria were Global Improvement evaluated by the examiner; change from baseline in 
UPDRS ADL score in the OFF state; change from baseline UPDRS Motor score in the ON state; 
change from baseline in PD-QUALIF (a quality of life scale). 
Sample size 
The power calculations for the study assumed that the pooled standard deviation in OFF time would 
be two hours with α set at 0.5 and β at approximately 80% then 150 patients per treatment arm would 
be  capable  of  detecting  a  difference  of  45  minutes  in  OFF  time  between  treatment  and  placebo. 
Inference testing was by Student’s t-test using the Bonferroni modification. 
Blinding (masking) 
A  tyramine  tolerance  sub-study  was  performed  in  55  subjects  on  the  last  day  of  the  26-week  study 
period. To prevent unblinding in case of a tyramine reaction, the investigator and coordinator roles for 
this sub-study were not carried out by the same individuals who performed these roles in the PRESTO 
study. 
Statistical methods 
The principal statistical analysis of the primary endpoint was an Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) 
adjusting for baseline mean total daily “OFF”time. The adjusted mean of the changes observed in each 
of  the  rasagiline  dose  groups  (two  contrasts)  were  compared  to  placebo  by  applying  an  ANCOVA 
model on the primary endpoint as dependent variable. The model included the following fixed effects: 
treatment group, center and baseline mean total daily “OFF” time.  The primary efficacy endpoint was 
analyzed for the 3 types of cohorts, the Intent-To-Treat cohort (the principal cohort for inference), the 
Completers  cohort  and  the  Per-Protocol  Cohort.    Statistical  tests  were  performed  at  the  5% 
significance level (two-tailed). The Hochberg’s Step-up modification to Bonferroni method was used 
to protect from inflation in the type I error resulting form multiple contrasts testing.  
Secondary  endpoints  were  analyzed  using  ANCOVA.  For  the  Responders  Analysis,  a  Logistic 
Regression was performed.  
Except  for  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  (for  which  the  mean  of  all  measurements  available  during 
treatment  was  calculated)  the  Last  Observation  Carried  Forward  (LOCF)  approach  was  used  to 
account  for  missing  interim  data,  for  subjects  with  at  least  one  post-randomization  evaluation.  
Subjects without post randomization efficacy endpoint evaluation were excluded from the analyses of 
this endpoint.  
20/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
A total of 606 subjects were screened. Of these, 472 were randomized to one of two once-daily doses 
of  rasagiline  (0.5  mg  and  1  mg)  or  placebo;  164  (35%)  received  0.5-mg/day  rasagiline,  149  (31%) 
received 1 mg/day rasagiline and 159 (33%) received placebo. 
From the 0.5 mg/day rasagiline treatment group 142 subjects (87%) completed the full duration of the 
study and 22 subjects prematurely withdrew from the study. From the 1 mg/day rasagiline treatment 
group 132 subjects (89%) completed the study and 17 subjects prematurely withdrew from the study. 
From  the  placebo  treatment  group  140  subjects  (88%)  completed  the  study  and  19  subjects 
prematurely withdrew from the study.  
The most common reason for prematurely withdrawing from the study was the experiencing  of AEs 
with an overall incidence of 7%. The 0.5 mg/day rasagiline treatment group had the largest withdrawal 
due to AEs (9%). This was followed by the 1 mg/day rasagiline treatment group (6%) and then by the 
placebo treatment group (5%). Premature withdrawal due to the worsening of PD symptoms occurred 
with  the  highest  incidence  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  (4%)  compared  to  an  incidence  of 
approximately  1%  in  each  of  the  rasagiline  treatment  groups.  The  withdrawal  of  subject  consent 
occurred with an incidence of approximately 2% in each treatment group. 
Baseline data 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  regarding 
demographic  and  clinical  variables  at  baseline  including  age,  sex,  PD  duration,  levodopa  treatment 
duration  and  levodopa  total  daily  dose,  fluctuation  and  dyskinesia  duration,  total  daily  “ON”  and 
“OFF” time and UPDRS scores.  
The  great  majority    (above  90%)  of  subjects  were  Caucasians.  65  %  were  male  patients.  Mean  age 
ranged  from 63 to 65  years. Mean PD duration was of approximately 9  years. The study population 
received approximately a total daily levodopa dose of 794 mg and spent a mean 6.1 hours of waking 
hours in the “OFF” state.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy results are summarised in the two  following  tables providing treatment  effect  of rasagiline; 
0.5 mg and 1 mg over placebo. 
Rasagiline 0.5 mg over Placebo 
Endpoint Type and Definition 
Treatment 
Effect 
p-value   
95% CI    
Primary endpoint: 
ITT Cohort 
-0.49 hours  
p = 0.0199   
-0.91, -0.08  
Change from Baseline to 
Treatment in Mean Total Daily 
“OFF” Time 
PP Cohort 
-0.62 hours  
p = 0.0087   
-1.08, -0.16  
CO Cohort 
-0.54 hours  
p = 0.0156   
-0.97, -0.10  
Secondary 
Efficacy 
Endpoints 
Global Improvement by Examiner 
at Termination  
-0.39 units  
p = 0.0027   
-0.64, -0.13  
Change from Baseline to 
Termination in UPDRS ADL 
During “OFF” State 
Change From Baseline to 
Termination in UPDRS Motor 
During “ON” State   
Change from Baseline to 
Termination in QOL (PD-
QUALIF)  
-1.20 units  
p = 0.0075   
-2.08, -0.32 
-2.91 units  
p = 0.0007   
-4.59, -1.23  
-2.18 units  
p = 0.0651   
-4.49, 0.14  
21/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
Rasagiline 1 mg over Placebo 
Endpoint Type and Definition 
Treatment 
Effect 
p-value   
95% CI    
Primary endpoint: 
ITT Cohort 
-0.94 hours  
p < 0.0001   
-1.36, -0.51  
Change from Baseline to 
Treatment in Mean Total Daily 
“OFF” Time 
PP Cohort 
-1.08 hours  
p < 0.0001   
-1.55, -0.61 
CO Cohort 
-0.94 hours  
p < 0.0001   
-1.38, -0.49  
Secondary 
Efficacy 
Endpoints 
Global Improvement by Examiner 
at Termination  
-0.68 units  
p < 0.0001   
-0.94, -0.42  
Change from Baseline to 
Termination in UPDRS ADL 
During “OFF” State 
Change From Baseline to 
Termination in UPDRS Motor 
During “ON” State  
Change from Baseline to 
Termination in QOL (PD-
QUALIF)  
-1.34 units  
p = 0.0040   
-2.24, -0.43  
-2.87 units  
p = 0.0011   
-4.58, -1.16  
-1.48 units  
p = 0.2229   
-3.86, 0.90  
The difference between rasagiline and placebo treatments (in favor of rasagiline) in the change from 
baseline in the total daily “OFF” time is 0.94 hours for the 1 mg/day rasagiline treatment group and 
0.49 hours for the 0.5 mg/day rasagiline treatment group. The beneficial effect of rasagiline is present 
across all study  cohorts (ITT, Per Protocol  and  Completers) representing the internal  consistency  of 
the data.  
The superiority effect detected in the 1 mg/day rasagiline-treatment arm compared to the 0.5 mg/day 
rasagiline-treatment arm suggests a dose relationship.  
The beneficial effect of 1 mg/day rasagiline over placebo was already present at week 6, the first post-
randomisation  diary  visit  and  was  maintained  across  all  study  visits  including  the  termination  visit. 
The  beneficial  effect  is  obtained  even  though  all  the  subjects  were  optimized  on  their  levodopa 
treatment and most subjects were taking additional antiparkinsonian medications including dopamine 
agonists and/or entacapone, which themselves have the ability to improve fluctuations. 
The clinical relevance of the primary endpoint data is confirmed by the responder analysis, based on 
the percentages of subjects with an improvement in total daily OFF time of at least 60 minutes. 65% of 
subjects from the rasagiline 1 mg/day treatment group, 59% of subjects from the 0.5 mg/day rasagiline 
treatment  group,  and  45%  of  subjects  from  the  placebo  treated  arm  were  responders.  Logistic 
Regression Analysis resulted in statistically significant odds ratios. For the 1 mg rasagiline treatment 
group  an  odds  ratio  of  2.5  in  favor  of  rasagiline  over  placebo  (p=0.0005,  95%  CI:  1.49,  4.23)  was 
obtained. For the 0.5 mg/day rasagiline treatment  group, the odds of being a responder are 1.9 times 
higher (p=0.0110, 95% CI:  1.16, 3.14) compared with placebo treatment. 
The reduction in the total daily “OFF” time corresponds closely to the increase in the total daily “ON”, 
and the increase in the total daily “ON” time is due primarily to an increase in “ON1” time i.e., “ON” 
without dyskinesia or without troublesome dyskinesia. 
Analyses of the secondary endpoints that were adjusted for multiplicity have demonstrated an overall 
statistically  significant  treatment  effect  that  was  attributable  to  rasagiline  treatment  for  all  3  clinical 
secondary endpoints (Global Improvement rated by the Examiner, UPDRS ADL in “OFF” state, and 
UPDRS Motor in the “ON” state), although there is no evidence confirming a treatment effect for the 
4th secondary endpoint measuring subjects quality of life with the PD-QUALIF scale.  
22/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
LARGO study 
METHODS 
LARGO  is  a  multicenter  (Europe,  Israel  and  Argentina),  double-blind,  double  dummy,  randomized, 
placebo and entacapone-controlled, 3 parallel groups study, for the efficacy, tolerability and safety of 
rasagiline mesylate in levodopa-treated Parkinson’s disease patients with motor fluctuations. 
Objectives 
To evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of rasagiline mesylate versus placebo in subjects with 
levodopa-treated  Parkinson’s  disease  (PD)  and  motor  fluctuations.  The  comparison  between 
entacapone to placebo serves for validation and exploratory purposes only. 
Study Participants  
Male and female subjects, aged 30 years or older, with idiopathic PD, taking optimized levodopa/dopa 
decarboxylase inhibitor therapy, who experienced motor fluctuations averaging at least 1 hour daily in 
the  “OFF”  state  during  waking  hours  (not  including  morning  akinesia)  and  graded  on  the  Modified 
Hoehn and Yahr as stage <5 in the “OFF” state, were eligible. Included were subjects who chronically 
used levodopa together  with  a peripheral  decarboxylase inhibitor and  experienced LD-related  motor 
fluctuations for at least 1 hour daily in the “OFF” state during waking  hours (not including morning 
akinesia),  confirmed  by  the  baseline  24-hour  diaries.  Subjects  were  required  to  demonstrate 
competence  in  diary  completion.  Subjects  who  presently  or  previously  used  entacapone  were  not 
eligible for the study. Subjects were permitted to maintain stable doses of other anti-PD medications. 
Subjects  were required to  undergo  washout prior to baseline  from selegiline, antidepressants (except 
amitriptyline,  and  trazodone  at  low  doses),  meperidine  (pethidine),  tolcapone,  sympathomimetics, 
dextromethorphan, St. John’s Wort and gentamicin. 
Treatments 
Following  a  screening  visit  subjects  started  on  a  placebo  run-in  period  of  at  least  2  weeks  during 
which they were administered a placebo for rasagiline once daily before breakfast, as well as a placebo 
for  entacapone  with  each  levodopa  dose.  Eligible  subjects  were  then  randomized  to  the  rasagiline, 
entacapone or placebo treatment groups for 18 weeks of double-blind treatment.   
Levodopa dosage could be decreased during the first 6 weeks of the study period at the discretion of 
the investigator, but had to remain constant for the last 12 weeks. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Subjects  attended  study  visits  at  3,  6,  10,  14  and  18  weeks  after  baseline  for  efficacy  and  safety 
monitoring. A home 24-hour diary in which subjects rated themselves as “ON without dyskinesias or 
without troublesome dyskinesias”, “ON with troublesome dyskinesias”, “OFF”, or “asleep” every half 
hour was completed for 3 consecutive days immediately prior to randomization (baseline), and weeks 
6, 10, 14 and 18. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline through the treatment period in the mean 
total daily “OFF” time, as measured by 24-hour diaries. 
Secondary Outcome Measures included Global Improvement by Examiner, Change  from baseline to 
termination  in  UPDRS  ADL  during  “OFF”  phases  and  Change  from  baseline  to  termination  in 
UPDRS Motor during “ON” phases. 
There  were  additional  efficacy  outcome  measures  including  a  responder  analysis,  and,  safety  and 
tolerability measures. 
Sample size 
The same assumptions as for PRESTO was planned in the clinical trial protocol, but, an assessment of 
the  variance  magnitude  was  performed  after  one  third  of  the  subjects  had  completed  18  weeks  of 
treatment. This assessment revealed that, in order to preserve the  original power of the study and to 
avoid the continuation of a futile study, the design should be upsized to enroll a total of 700 patients, 
250 more than originally planned. Therefore, a total of 687 subjects were actually randomized into this 
study. 
23/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Statistical methods 
The  statistical  analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint  was  performed  on  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT),  per-
protocol (PP) and complete (CO) cohorts using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) accounting for 
baseline mean total daily “OFF” time. The adjusted means of the changes observed in the rasagiline 
mesylate 1 mg treatment group was compared with placebo by performing a single degree of freedom 
comparison in a model including the three treatment groups. Statistical tests were performed at the 5% 
(two-tailed) significance level. 
To  avoid  inflation  of  Type-1  error  due  to  multiple  endpoints  testing,  the  analyses  of  secondary 
endpoints  were  performed  according  to  a  hierarchical  order,  with  the  testing  of  each  endpoint  only 
being  conducted  if  the  prior  endpoint  demonstrated  a  statistically  significantly  beneficial  effect  of 
rasagiline  compared  with    placebo.  Secondary  endpoints  were  analyzed  using  ANCOVA  except  for 
the Global Improvement by Examiner for which an ANOVA was performed.  
Except for diary derived endpoints for which the mean of all measurements available during treatment 
was  calculated,  the  Last  Observation  Carried  Forward  (LOCF)  approach  was  used  to  account  for 
missing data at week 18 for subjects with at least one post-randomization evaluation. Subjects without 
post-randomization efficacy endpoint evaluation were excluded from the analyses of this endpoint. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
A  total  of  687  subjects  were  randomised:  231  subjects  entered  the  rasagiline  treatment  group,  227 
subjects  entered  the  entacapone  treatment  group,  and  229  subjects  entered  the  placebo  treatment 
group. 
From the rasagiline treatment group 208 subjects (90%) completed the full duration of the study and 
23 subjects prematurely withdrew from the study. From the entacapone treatment group 197 subjects 
(87%)  completed  the  study  and  30  subjects  (13%)  prematurely  withdrew  from  the  study.  From  the 
placebo treatment group 194 subjects (85%) completed the study and 35 (15%) subjects prematurely 
withdrew from the study.  
The  most  common  reasons  for  prematurely  withdrawing  from  the  study  were  subject  withdrawal  of 
consent  and  the  experiencing  of  AEs,  each  with  an  overall  incidence  of  4.9%.  The  entacapone 
treatment  group  had  the  largest  withdrawal  due  to  AEs  (7.0%).  This  was  followed  by  the  placebo 
treatment  group  (4.8%)  and  then  by  the  rasagiline  treatment  group  (3.0%).  The  placebo  treatment 
group  had  the  largest  withdrawal  of  subject  consent  (6.6%).  This  was  followed  by  the  rasagiline 
treatment group (5.2%) and then by the entacapone treatment group (3.1%). 
Baseline data 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  regarding 
demographic  and  clinical  variables  at  baseline  including  age,  sex,  PD  duration,  levodopa  treatment 
duration  and  levodopa  total  daily  dose,  fluctuation  and  dyskinesia  duration,  total  Daily  “ON”  and 
“OFF” times and UPDRS scores. 
The  great  majority  (above  90%)  of  subjects  were  Caucasians.  62  %  were  male  patients.  Mean  age 
ranged  from 63 to 65  years. Mean PD duration was of approximately 9  years. The study population 
received approximately a total daily levodopa dose of 707 mg and spent a mean 5.6 hours of waking 
hours in the “OFF” state. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy results over placebo are summarised in the following table. 
24/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Rasagiline 1 mg over Placebo 
Endpoint Type and Definition 
Treatment 
Effect 
p-value   
95% CI    
Primary endpoint: 
ITT Cohort 
-0.78 hours  
p = 0.0001   
-1.18 to-0.39 
Change from Baseline to 
Treatment in Mean Total Daily 
“OFF” Time 
PP Cohort 
-0.71 hours  
p = 0.001   
-1.14 to -0.29 
CO Cohort 
-0.72 hours  
p = 0.0006   
-1.12 to -0.31 
Secondary 
Efficacy 
Endpoints 
Global Improvement by Examiner 
at Termination  
Change from Baseline to 
Termination in UPDRS ADL 
During “OFF” State 
Change From Baseline to 
Termination in UPDRS Motor 
During “ON” State  
-0.49 units  
p< 0.0001   
-0.68 to -0.31 
-1.71 units  
p < 0.0001     -2.49 to -0.93 
-2.94 units  
p < 0.0001   
-4.28 to -1.60 
The results of this trial demonstrate that daily treatment with 1 mg of rasagiline reduces the total daily 
“OFF”  duration  by  a  mean  0.78  hours  in  levodopa-treated  Parkinson’s  diseased  patients  with  motor 
fluctuations.  This  clinically  beneficial  effect  of  rasagiline  is  present  across  all  study  cohorts 
representing the internal consistency of the data.  
This study has also demonstrated the statistically significant beneficial effect (reduction of 0.80 hours 
for  entacapone  over placebo (p < 0.0001, 95% CI:-1.20 to -0.41) of  the  active  study   comparator, 
entacapone 200 mg, administered orally with each levodopa dose, providing additional evidence of the 
adequacy of the conduct of this clinical trial.  
The  beneficial  effect  of  rasagiline  over  placebo  was  already  seen  at  week  6,  the  first  post-
randomization diary visit, and persisted across all study visits including the termination visit.  
The  clinical  relevance  of  the  primary  endpoint  data  is  confirmed  by  the  exploratory  responder 
analysis,  based  on  the  percentages  of  subjects  with  an  improvement  in  total  daily  “OFF”  time  of  at 
least  60  minutes.  51%  of  subjects  from  the  rasagiline  treatment  group,  45%  of  subjects  from  the 
entacapone treatment group and 32% of subjects from the placebo treatment group were responders. 
An  odds  ratio  of  2.5  in  favor  of  rasagiline  over  placebo  (p  <  0.0001,  95%  CI:  1.62  to  3.85)  was 
obtained. 
The reduction in the “OFF” time is mirrored by the increase in the total daily “ON” and “ON1” times 
and  is  not  accompanied  by  an  increase  in  unwanted  troublesome  dyskinesia.  Analyses  of  the 
secondary  endpoints  that  were  adjusted  for  multiplicity  have  demonstrated  an  overall  statistically 
significant treatment effect that can be attributed to rasagiline treatment for all 3 secondary endpoints:  
Global Improvement by the Examiner, UPDRS ADL in “OFF” state, and UPDRS Motor in the “ON” 
state.  
Rasagiline  treatment  has  also  shown  a  slight  but  statistically  significant  decrease  in  the  mean  total 
daily  levodopa  dose.  A  similar  decrease  is  seen  for  entacapone  treatment.  Larger  reductions  in  the 
daily  levodopa  dose  following  entacapone  treatment  have  been  seen  in  previous  studies  in  which 
reductions were permitted according to the design of the study. This study did not permit the reduction 
except in the case of intolerance during the first 6 weeks of the study.  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Means total daily “OFF” time at baseline, during treatment and change from baseline were compared 
according to the cut-off age below 70-years old and above that age in PRESTO and LARGO studies. 
The subgroup analyses by age suggests that rasagiline is equally efficacious on those above and below 
70 years old. 
25/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based on the known risk of hypertensive crisis with non-selective MAO inhibitors following intake of 
indirectly  acting  sympathomimetic  amines  such  as  tyramine,  the  risk  of  rasagiline  interaction  with 
tyramine  was  investigated.  An  increase  in  sensitivity  to  tyramine  was  observed  in  two  healthy 
volunteers in  a pharmacodynamic study. Nevertheless,  the applicant has shown that two  episodes  of 
tyramine  pressor  response  on  2  mg  rasagiline  occurred  in  unrealistic  conditions  which  are  unlikely 
under every day circumstances. In addition, in the total non-tyramine restricted exposure to rasagiline 
in the  clinical programme,  which  is over 660 patient  years on rasagiline and levodopa and  over 410 
patient  years  on  rasagiline  alone.  None  of  these  patients  had  any  event  that  could  be  considered  a 
result  of  a  potential  tyramine/rasagiline  interaction.  In  conclusion,  although  tyramine/rasagiline 
interaction is not nil, rasagiline 1mg/day can be used without dietary tyramine restrictions. 
The  clinical  development  of  rasagiline  includes  3  pivotal  trials;  one  in  monotherapy  in  early  PD 
patients  and  2  as  add-on  therapy  to  levodopa  in  fluctuators.  The  3  trials  together  demonstrate  that 
rasagiline has a consistent anti-parkinson effect. 
The  2  pivotal  trials  where  rasagiline  was  tested  as  add-on  to  levodopa  demonstrates  that  rasagiline 
reduces OFF time (1h in more than 50% of patients) and increases ON time without dyskinesias more 
that it increases ON with dyskinesias. The effect size of rasagiline 1 mg/d is similar to that obtained 
with  entacapone.  The  mean  difference  compared  to  placebo,  between  0.78  h  and  almost  1  h,  is 
considered clinically relevant. The responder analysis supports the clinical relevance: improvement of 
at least 1.5 h in about 40% of the patients both for rasagiline and entacapone and improvement of at 
least  2h  in  30%  of  actively  treated.  Efficacy  in  the  treatment  of  motor  fluctuations  is  therefore 
supported by the PRESTO and LARGO studies. Nevertheless, there was no controlled trial targeting 
the population of  non-fluctuators that need  further treatment of Parkinsonism signs, nor a  controlled 
trial  targeting  patients  with  non-dose  dependent  fluctuations.  Therefore,  the  therapeutic  indication 
should be restricted to patients with motor fluctuations of the wearing-off type. 
The  monotherapy  trial,  which  includes  a  6-month  placebo  controlled  phase  and  a  further  6-month 
double-blind phase without placebo arm, shows an advantage over placebo for rasagiline at 6 months 
that is maintained at 1 year. This advantage is about 4 points in the total UPDRS (primary end-point) 
and  2.5  points  in  UPDRS  motor,  as  compared  to  placebo.  The  clinical  relevance  of  effect  was 
questioned, considering that the size of the effect is modest (e.g. compared to historical data of other 
medicinal products, in particular  dopamine  agonists)  and there  was  no  active  comparator  arm in the 
TEMPO study. 
The  absence  of  a  3  arm  trial  including  an  active  comparator  in  the  monotherapy  study  has  been 
justified by the applicant by the fact that the CHMP scientific advice for rasagiline (November 1999) 
and the CHMP Note for Guidance on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products in the Treatment of 
PD (adopted in December 1998 for coming into operation in June 1999) came too late to influence the 
design  of  the  TEMPO  study  which  enrolment  started  in  November  1997  and  ended  in  November 
1999.  Furthermore,  particularly  when  the  study  started,  there  was  no  consensus  on  an  appropriate 
comparator. 
It was acknowledged that the effect of rasagiline in monotherapy seems smaller than the effect of LD 
or  dopamine  agonists.  On  the  other  hand  rasagiline  effect  seems  at  least  comparable  to  selegiline 
effect  based  on  bibliographical  data  and  selegiline  is  a  MAO-B  inhibitor  widely  recognised  in  the 
treatment  of  early  PD.  In  any  case,  without  direct  comparison,  no  formal  conclusion  can  be  drawn 
with  regard  to  rasagiline  efficacy  compared  to  other  products.  It  was  also  noted  that  the  placebo 
deterioration rate is in line  with the natural history  of the disease (around 10 UPDRS points /  year). 
The clinical relevance of the effects observed on total UPDRS and the UPDRS motor are supported by 
consistent effects seen in the responder analysis and on UPDRS ADL, as well as with a quality of life 
scale (PDQUALIF - Welch, 2003) where statistically significant treatment effect in favor of rasagiline 
(a  reduction  of  2.92  units,  p  =  0.0122,  95%  CI:  0.64,  5.19)  was  obtained.  The  lack  of  effect  at  6 
months for delaying LD use may be explained by the fact that it was a too short timeframe to see an 
effect on this end-point. The extension phase is supportive of a sparing effect because 69% of patients 
are still on monotherapy at one year, and 46% at 2 years.  
26/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
A  total  of  1864  subjects  who  participated  in  the  clinical  development  program  of  rasagiline  were 
included in the safety database. Of these, 1453 were exposed to rasagiline for 1583.7 subject years. A 
total of 596 subjects received placebo for 220.6 subject years and 227 subjects received entacapone for 
a total of 153.2 subject years. In the double blind placebo controlled studies 529 patients were treated 
with rasagiline 1 mg/day for 212 patient years. 
•  Adverse events  
Monotherapy 
Adverse reactions reported with a higher incidence in placebo-controlled studies, in patients receiving 
1 mg/day  rasagiline  as  monotherapy  are  presented  in  the  table  below  with  the  adverse  reaction 
incidence (% of patients) in rasagiline vs. placebo, respectively.   
AEs in patients not on levodopa 
Adverse event 
Rasagiline 1 
mg (n=149) 
Placebo  
(n = 151) 
Body as a whole 
Headache 
Flu syndrome 
Fever 
Malaise 
Neck pain 
Allergic reaction 
Cardiovascular system 
Angina pectoris 
Cerebrovascular 
accident 
Myocardial 
infarct 
Dyspepsia 
Anorexia 
Leucopaenia 
Digestive system 
Hemic and lymphatic 
system 
Musculoskeletal system 
Arthralgia 
Nervous system 
Respiratory system 
Arthritis 
Depression 
Vertigo 
Rhinitis 
Special senses 
Conjunctivitis 
Skin and appendages 
Contact dermatitis 
Vesiculabullous 
rash 
Skin carcinoma 
Urogenital system 
Urinary urgency 
% 
14.1 
6.0 
2.7 
2.0 
2.0 
1.3 
1.3 
0.7 
0.7 
6.7 
1.3 
1.3 
7.4 
2.0 
5.4 
2.0 
2.7 
2.7 
1.3 
1.3 
1.3 
1.3 
% 
11.9 
0.7 
1.3 
- 
- 
0.7 
- 
- 
- 
4.0 
- 
0 
4.0 
0.7 
2.0 
0.7 
1.3 
0.7 
- 
- 
0.7 
0 
27/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reflecting the increased dopaminergic effect of the higher rasagiline dose, the most common AEs in 
the 2 mg group included abnormal dreams (<1% in 1 mg group vs. 3% in 2 mg group), vomiting (1% 
for 1 mg vs. 3% for 2 mg) and sleep disorder (4% in 1 mg group vs. 6% in 2 mg group), somnolence 
(<1% in 1 mg  group vs.  3% in 2  mg  group), ataxia (<1% in 1 mg group  vs. 3% in 2 mg group and 
flatulence (0% in 1 mg group vs. 3% in 2 mg group). 
Add-on therapy 
Adverse reactions reported with a higher incidence in placebo-controlled studies in patients receiving 
1 mg/day rasagiline as add-on therapy to levodopa are presented in the table below with the adverse 
reaction incidence (% of patients) in rasagiline vs. placebo, respectively.  
AEs in  patients taking  levodopa 
Rasagiline 1 mg  
(n = 380) 
Body as whole 
Accidental injury 
Abdominal pain 
Neck pain 
Cardiovascular System 
Postural hypotension 
Digestive System 
Angina pectoris 
Cerebrovascular accident 
Constipation 
Dry mouth 
Vomiting 
Anorexia 
Musculoskeletal system 
Arthralgia 
Metabolic and nutritional 
disorders 
Nervous system 
Skin and appendages 
Tenosynovitis 
Weight loss 
Dyskinesia 
Dystonia 
Abnormal dreams 
Ataxia 
Rash 
Skin melanoma 
% 
8.2 
3.9 
1.6 
4.7 
0.5 
0.5 
4.2 
3.4 
3.4 
2.1 
3.2 
1.3 
4.2 
10.3 
2.4 
2.1 
1.3 
2.6 
0.5 
Placebo  
(n = 388) 
% 
5.20 
1.3 
0.5 
1.3 
- 
0.3 
2.1 
1.8 
1.0 
0.5 
1.3 
- 
1.5 
6.4 
0.8 
0.8 
0.3 
1.5 
0.3 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No  deaths  were reported  during the placebo-controlled  monotherapy studies. Four  out of a total 544 
rasagiline-treated (0.5  mg and 1  mg) patients (0.7%), 4/388 (1%) placebo-treated patients and 3/227 
(1.3%) entacapone-treated patients died during the placebo-controlled, LARGO and PRESTO adjunct 
therapy studies. 
In  the  placebo-controlled  studies,  SAEs  for  the  monotherapy  cohort  were  slightly  increased  in  the 
rasagiline groups vs. placebo (6 patients/ 4% for 1 mg, 9 patients/ 6% for 2 mg, and 4 patients/ 3% for 
placebo), with  most individual  AEs  occurring in a single patient. In the 1  mg group, 4 of the 6 had 
28/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cardiovascular SAEs, including 2 with angina pectoris, one with intra-operative myocardial infarction 
and one with atrial fibrillation. One patient on 2 mg had angina pectoris and was discontinued due to 
need for medication that was not allowed. 
For  the  adjunct  therapy  cohort,  incidence  of  SAEs  was  the  same  for  rasagiline  and  placebo  treated 
patients (8%). Although the incidence of SAEs is twice that of the 1 mg group of monotherapy cohort, 
these  patients  were  generally  more  complex  medically  with  a  longer  history  of  PD  and  chronic 
levodopa treatment and the similarity of the rasagiline treated patients to placebo bears this out. 
The SAEs reported are mostly cardio or cerebrovascular in origin they are in line with the age and the 
prevalence of the diseases in the population studied. There is no evidence that rasagiline contributed to 
their occurrence. 
Melanoma 
During  the  entire  clinical  program  of  rasagiline  20  cases  of  melanoma,  most  of  them  in  situ,  were 
reported in 19 patients (both prior to and after treatment initiation). Fifteen of the patients were treated 
with  rasagiline,  one  patient  was  on  placebo  and  additional  3  were  diagnosed  before  treatment 
initiation.  Eleven  (11)  of  the  15  patients  were  diagnosed  in  studies  without  a  concurrent  placebo 
group.  Six  cases  were  diagnosed  before  the  applicant  has  implemented  active  dermatological 
examinations  in  all  ongoing  clinical  trials  worldwide.  Indeed,  during  the  conduction  of  rasagiline 
clinical trials in North America two cases of invasive melanoma and four cases of melanoma in-situ 
were diagnosed. Despite the uncertain significance of this, the FDA thought it appropriate to institute 
additional  surveillance.  The  applicant  complied  with  this  request  by  implementing  periodical  skin 
exams  in  all  ongoing  clinical  trials.  Therefore,  it  was  not  unexpected  that  following  this  step  the 
number of diagnosed cases would rise.  
The finding of 6 melanoma cases that were mostly appearing in rasagiline treated patients within its 
clinical  development programme stirred a lot  of scientific  discussion to  clarify the issue: there  were 
more  cases  in  rasagiline  treated  patients  than  in  patients  receiving  placebo,  even  if  there  were  also 
more  patients  in  the  programme  exposed  to  rasagiline  than  to  placebo.  The  prospective  screening 
imposed  by  FDA  determined,  as  expected,  the  finding  of  an  extra  number  of  cases.  The 
epidemiological  and  clinical  effort  put  in  the  clarification  of  this  matter  is  an  add-value  of  the 
rasagiline clinical programme. 
In  fact  melanoma  and  PD  have  always  been  linked  by  the  theoretical  fear,  based  on  the 
pharmacological  mechanism, that LD  would increase  melanoma  appearance  or  development, but  no 
robust  data  were  available.  Nevertheless,  epidemiological  studies,  some  of  them  conducted 
independently from the applicant (e.g. in Denmark) show that PD patients have overall a lower risk of 
cancer  but  a  higher  risk  of  melanoma.  The  prospective  studies  also  show  that  cancer  registers 
underestimate the rates of melanoma in situ in the general population. The data available suggest that 
PD patients are at a higher risk for melanoma. The screening imposed by FDA show that melanomas 
in the  rasagiline  clinical programme  occur at baseline before any  exposure  and  do not increase  with 
the cumulative exposure. Furthermore there is an imbalance of the number of skin lesions at baseline 
penalizing  rasagiline  groups,  which  reflects  later  on  in  the  number  of  cases  found  in  rasagiline  or 
placebo,  numerically superior in the  rasagiline. The larger number of  cases in  US as  compared  with 
Europe is in line with the epidemiologic surveys. 
In  conclusion  the  epidemiologic  data  descriptive  and  analytic  plus  the  screening  data  strongly 
suggested that melanoma is a problem related with the disease and not with rasagiline. Still this should 
be a topic for special monitoring within the Periodic Safety Update Reports during postmarketing and 
it should be advised in the SPC that any suspicious skin lesion should be evaluated by a specialist. 
Weight loss 
In the adjunct therapy studies, increased incidence of measured weight loss was noted in the rasagiline 
treatment groups as compared to placebo. Dose relationship was not seen in the PRESTO study. In the 
monotherapy TEMPO study, the incidence of measured weight loss >5% in both rasagiline treatment 
groups  was  very  low  and  similar  to  placebo.  Weight  loss  is  likely  to  be  an  expected  dopaminergic 
effect.  Weight  loss  was  reported  as  an  AE  with  a low  incidence  (4.4%)  for  all  patients  ever  treated 
with  rasagiline.  The  problem  of  weight  loss  is  intrinsic  to  Parkinson  disease  and  is  not  very  well 
understood.  The  safety  database  of  rasagiline  shows  that  weight  loss  is  uncommon  in  early  patients 
29/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
(e.g. those in rasagiline monotherapy study). In the adjunct studies, weight loss was relatively frequent 
but it cannot be attributed to rasagiline since it happened similarly in the entacapone group. It is likely 
that  weight  loss  has  a  complex  origin  dependent  of  the  interaction  of  the  disease  process  with 
dopaminergic therapies. 
“Flu-like” syndrome 
Analysis of the incidence and frequency of selected symptoms: flu syndrome, fever, malaise, arthritis 
and  neck pain reported in the placebo-controlled phase  of the TEMPO study shows that the adverse 
event (AE) “flu syndrome” was significantly higher in the rasagiline 1 mg group than in placebo, but 
without  dose  response  relationship.  The  vast  majority  of  these  selected  symptoms  were  reported  as 
independent  events  and  not  in  association  with  each  other  or  with  the  COSTART  term  “flu 
syndrome”.  Most  cases  of  “flu  syndrome”  in  rasagiline  treated  patients  were  assessed  by  the 
investigator as mild, and none was severe. 
With regard to possible immune system effects of rasagiline, the AE “infection” was reported equally 
in all  groups: 14.9%  for  rasagiline 1  mg and 15.9%  for both rasagiline 2  mg  and placebo (TEMPO 
study).  Severe  AEs  related  to  infection  were  reported  similarly  in  each  group:  “infection”  and 
“gastroenteritis”, each in a rasagiline 2 mg and a placebo patient, and “abscess” in a rasagiline 1  mg 
patient.  In  order  to  further  evaluate  the  relationship  of  rasagiline  to  “flu-like  syndrome”,  a  similar 
analysis  was  performed  for  the  two  pivotal  studies  in  levodopa  treated  fluctuating  PD  patients, 
LARGO and PRESTO. A significant increase in “flu-like” syndrome in rasagiline treated patients was 
not demonstrated. Overall, the analysis does not suggest an effect of rasagiline on the immune system. 
Neck pain was the only adverse reaction for which there was a dose dependent relationship. 
Other important adverse events that were reported in clinical studies with rasagiline (other dose or in 
studies without placebo control) occurred in two patients each were rhabdomyolysis (both cases were 
following  fall  and  prolonged  immobilization)  and  inappropriate  antidiuretic  hormone  (ADH) 
secretion.  The  complex  nature  of  these  cases  makes  it  impossible  to  determine  what  role,  if  any, 
rasagiline played in their pathogenesis. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Vital sign and ECG were studied. 
Orthostatic hypotension is aggravated by rasagiline in add on therapy. The phenomenon was 
considered mild. 
The scattered findings regarding QTc prolongation do not seem to indicate any worrying signal. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Other than studies in renal impairment and hepatic impairment no relevant data arise. Hepatic and/or 
renal  impairment  might  increase  the  rates  of  dopaminergic  effects  although  the  studies  so  far 
conducted did not detect such an effect. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Monoamine  oxidase  inhibitors  (MAOI)  are  listed  among  agents  that  can  induce  the  serotonin 
syndrome  when  co-administered  with  serotonin  enhancing  agents,  including  antidepressants  such  as 
the  tricyclics,  selective  serotonin  reuptake  inhibitors  (SSRIs),  serotonin  and  noradrenaline  reuptake 
inhibitors  (SNRIs),  trazodone,  lithium  and  tryptophan.  MAOIs  combined  with  the  opioids 
dextromethorphan and pethidine  have also produced the serotonin syndrome. MAOI are assumed to 
contribute to this condition by preventing the metabolism of serotonin which is a preferential substrate 
of  MAO-A,  but  can  still  be  metabolized  by  MAO-B.  Rasagiline  is  a  potent,  irreversible  MAO-B 
selective  inhibitor.  Because  of  rasagiline’s  selectivity  for  MAO-B  as  compared  to  MAO-A,  at  the 
recommended  clinical  dose  (1  mg/day),  the  risk  of  serotonin  syndrome  is  limited.  The  concern 
regarding  the  possibility  of  occurrence  of  serotoninergic  syndrome  conducted  to  the  avoidance  of 
SSRI  in  the  early  phase  of  the  development.  In  pivotal  trials  they  were  used  but  it  happened  in  a 
limited way. Serotoninergic syndrome is a rare but serious condition and it is impossible to exclude a 
small risk for its occurrence thus warning has been included in SPC. 
30/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Overall, a small number of patients in the placebo-controlled studies discontinued prematurely due to 
AEs, suggesting that rasagiline is well-tolerated. Five patients on rasagiline 1  mg, two patients on  2 
mg and one patient on placebo discontinued in the monotherapy cohort. All the AEs associated with 
termination  were  reported  in  only  one  patient,  except  for  hallucinations  which  occurred  in  three 
rasagiline-treated patients (two on 1 mg, one on 2 mg). For the adjunct therapy cohort, approximately 
equal numbers of patients in the rasagiline (N=16, 4.2%) and placebo groups (N=19, 4.9%) terminated 
the  study  prematurely.  Most  AEs  were  recorded  for  only  one  patient.  The  body  system  with  the 
highest incidence of AEs associated with premature discontinuation was the nervous system.  
•  Post marketing experience 
Not applicable 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The number of patients exposed to rasagiline in this clinical development plan is very close to 1500. 
The data generated show that rasagiline can be considered a well-tolerated drug. The most frequent 
adverse events in the lower doses (up to 1 mg/d) are unspecific but above this or when rasagiline 1 mg 
is added to levodopa they become clearly dopaminergic. Orthostatic hypotension might be problem in 
few patients, when rasagiline is used as add-on therapy. 
The putative tyramine interaction was studied and described under pharmacodynamic studies. 
During  the  clinical  development  programme  the  occurrence  of  cases  of  melanoma  prompted  the 
consideration  of  a  possible  association  with  rasagiline.  The  data  collected  suggests  that  Parkinson 
disease, rather than any drug in particular, is associated to a higher risk of melanoma. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Rasagiline  was  shown  to  be  a  potent,  irreversible  MAO-B  selective  inhibitor,  which  may  cause  an 
increase in extracellular levels of dopamine in the striatum.  
Preclinical  data  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology, repeated-dose toxicity and reproduction toxicity. 
Considering  the  equivocal  genotoxic  potential  and  the  lack  of  plausible  explanation  for  lung  tumor 
development in mice, a further test addressing the involvement of a genotoxic mechanism in the lung 
tumorigenesis observed in mice has been requested. To further investigate the possibility of a mouse 
unique  metabolite,  which  may  be  responsible  for  the  results  observed  in  the  mutagenicity  and 
carcinogenicity studies, the  applicant initiated  a study designed to  compare  rasagiline  metabolites in 
mice and rats biofluids to those in humans. Although a mechanistic explanation is still lacking, the fact 
that tumours were only observed in mice reduces the concern regarding human safety. 
Efficacy 
The  clinical  development  of  rasagiline  is  based  on  3  pivotal trials;  one  in  monotherapy  in  early  PD 
patients and 2 as add-on therapy to levodopa in patients with motor fluctuation. The 3 trials together 
demonstrate that rasagiline has a consistent anti-parkinson effect. 
Treatment with rasagiline of early PD patients does produce a consistent beneficial effect measurable 
by the UPDRS total score and its sub-scores. The effect is modest (2.7 points on UPDRS motor score 
and  4.2  points  on  total  UPDRS  score)  but  is  maintained  in  the long-term  and  is  supported  by  other 
assessments like the responder analysis and Quality of Life which show a significant difference from 
placebo. 
31/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
The  2  pivotal  trials  where  rasagiline  was  tested  as  add-on  to  levodopa  demonstrates  that  rasagiline 
reduces OFF time (1 h in more than 50% of the patients) and increases ON time without dyskinesias 
more that it increases ON with dyskinesias. The responder analysis for an improvement of at least 1.5h 
showed that about 40% of the patients reached this mark both for rasagiline and entacapone when the 
cut-off is put at the 2 hours, 30% of the actively treated patients reached it. The therapeutic indication 
should  be  restricted  to  patients  with  end  of  dose  fluctuations  as  there  were  no  data  in  other 
populations. 
Safety 
At the  recommended  dose  (1  mg/d), rasagiline  was  well tolerated; the  most  frequent adverse  events 
are unspecific in monotherapy. When rasagiline 1 mg is added to levodopa the most frequent adverse 
events  are  dopaminergic  in  nature  (e.g.  dyskinesia,  postural  hypotension  and  vomiting).  Orthostatic 
hypotension in add-on therapy might also be a concern in few patients. Rasagiline should not be used 
in cases of moderate and severe hepatic impairment. 
Due  to  known  interactions  between  non  selective  MAO  inhibitors  and  other  medicinal  products, 
specific recommendations for concomitant use of rasagiline with some other medicinal product have 
been included in the summary of product characteristics. 
The most serious concern in the clinical development of rasagiline was the relation with an increased 
incidence of melanoma. The epidemiological studies conducted strongly suggest that the increased 
melanoma incidence is real but related to the disease rather than any product in particular. Recent 
epidemiological data also suggest that PD patients are at higher risk for skin cancers and not only 
melanoma. 
6. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The benefit/risk of rasagiline is favourable: 
- 
- 
as monotherapy in early Parkinson’s disease patients, where rasagiline  has showed a modest 
effect with once daily administration without need for titration and is well tolerated, 
 as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients with end of dose fluctuations, where rasagiline 
reduces OFF time with an acceptable dopaminergic safety profile.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the benefit/risk balance of AZILECT in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease 
(PD) as monotherapy (without levodopa) or as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients with end of 
dose fluctuations was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
32/32 

EMEA 2005 
 
