MK-4117 
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.1 
PAGE 36 
DESLORATADINE 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT 
Summary of risk management plan for Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn 
(desloratadine)  
This is a summary of the RMP for Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn. The RMP details 
important risks of Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn, how these risks can be minimised, and 
how more information will be obtained about Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn’s risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn’s SmPCs and its package leaflets give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn should be read in the context 
of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Aerius, 
Azomyr, and Neoclarityn’s RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn are authorised for adults, adolescents and children over the 
age of 1 year for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria. They 
contain desloratadine as the active substance and they are given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn’s benefits can 
be found in Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn’s EPAR, including in its plain-language 
summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicines’ webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/aerius 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/azomyr 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/neoclarityn 
II. 
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn, together with measures to minimise 
such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Aerius, Azomyr, and 
Neoclarityn’s risks, are outlined below. 
 
 
 
 
 
MK-4117
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.1
PAGE 37
DESLORATADINE
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine).
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information*
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
* The important identified or potential risks included in prior versions of the RMP have been removed based the review 
of accumulating clinical data and the guidance in GVP module V (Rev 2), as per routine updates of the RMP during 
the life cycle of the product
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
The safety information in the proposed Prescribing Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product. There are no important identified risks, important potential risks, or 
missing information in this RMP.
05PWX6
 
 
MK-4117
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.1
PAGE 38
DESLORATADINE
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for Aerius, Azomyr, and Neoclarityn.
05PWX6
 
 
