EMA/628751/2014  
EMEA/H/C/000310 
EPAR summary for the public 
Azomyr 
desloratadine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Azomyr. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Azomyr. 
What is Azomyr? 
Azomyr is a medicine containing the active substance desloratadine. It is available as a 5 mg tablet, 
2.5 mg and 5 mg orodispersible tablets (tablets that dissolve in the mouth), a 0.5 mg/ml syrup and a 
0.5 mg/ml oral solution. 
What is Azomyr used for? 
Azomyr is used to relieve the symptoms of allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the nasal passages caused 
by an allergy, for example, hay fever or allergy to dust mites) or urticaria (a skin condition caused by 
an allergy, with symptoms including itching and hives). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Azomyr used? 
The recommended dose for adults and adolescents (12 years of age and over) is 5 mg once a day. The 
dose in children depends on their age. For children from one to five years of age, the dose is 1.25 mg 
once a day, taken as 2.5 ml syrup or oral solution. For children from six to 11 years of age, the dose is 
2.5 mg once a day, taken either as 5 ml of the syrup or oral solution, or as one 2.5 mg orodispersible 
tablet. Adults and adolescents can use any form of the medicine. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Azomyr work? 
The active substance in Azomyr, desloratadine, is an antihistamine. It works by blocking the receptors 
to which histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, normally attaches itself. 
When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this leads to a decrease in the 
symptoms of allergy. 
How has Azomyr been studied? 
Azomyr has been studied in a total of eight studies involving about 4,800 adult and adolescent patients 
with allergic rhinitis (including four studies in seasonal allergic rhinitis, and two studies in patients who 
also had asthma). The effectiveness of Azomyr was measured by looking at the change in the 
symptoms (nasal discharge, itching, sneezing and congestion) before and after two or four weeks of 
treatment. 
Azomyr has also been studied in 416 patients with urticaria. The effectiveness was measured by 
looking at the change in the symptoms (itching, number and size of hives, interference with sleep and 
daytime function) before and after six weeks of treatment. 
In all studies, the effectiveness of Azomyr was compared with that of placebo (a dummy treatment). 
Additional studies were presented to show that the syrup, oral solution and orodispersible tablets are 
treated by the body in the same way as the tablets, and to show that they can be used safely in 
children. 
What benefit has Azomyr shown during the studies? 
In allergic rhinitis, looking at the results of all studies taken together, two weeks of treatment with 
5 mg Azomyr led to an average decrease in symptom score of 25 to 32%, compared with a decrease of 
12 to 26% in the patients receiving placebo. In the two studies in urticaria, the decrease in symptom 
score after six weeks of treatment with Azomyr was 58 and 67%, compared with 40 and 33% in 
placebo-treated patients. 
What is the risk associated with Azomyr? 
In adults and adolescents, the most common side effects are fatigue (tiredness; 1.2%), dry mouth 
(0.8%) and headache (0.6%). The side effects seen in children are similar. In children less than two 
years of age, the most common side effects are diarrhoea (3.7%), fever (2.3%) and insomnia 
(difficulty sleeping; 2.3%). For the full list of all side effects reported with Azomyr, see the Package 
Leaflet. 
Azomyr must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to desloratadine, loratadine or 
any of the other ingredients. 
Why has Azomyr been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Azomyr’s benefits are 
greater than its risks for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis or urticaria. The 
Committee recommended that Azomyr be given marketing authorisation. 
Azomyr  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Azomyr 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Azomyr on 15 January 2001.  
The full EPAR for Azomyr can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Azomyr, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2014. 
Azomyr  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
