European Medicines Agency 
London, 3 March 2008 
EMEA/325789/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
AZOMYR 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Desloratadine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000310/II/0039   
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION  
Azomyr (desloratadine) is a non-sedating long acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral H1-
receptor antagonist activity. Azomyr was first authorised in the European Union (EU) on 15 January 2001 
with  the  indication:  in  adults  and  adolescents  (12  years  of  age  or  over)  for  the  relief  of  symptoms 
associated  with  allergic  rhinitis  (AR).  On  6  August  2001,  a  Commission  Decision  extended  the  use  of 
Azomyr in chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU).  
This variation refers to an extension of indication for Azomyr from ‘chronic idiopathic urticaria’ to 
‘urticaria’. Consequently sections 4.2 and 5.1  of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) were 
updated. Sections 1 and 3 of the Package Leaflet (PL)  were amended accordingly. 
2. 
CLINICAL ASPECTS 
Introduction 
Urticaria is a condition in which “wheal and flare” lesions develop on the skin as a result of mast cell 
degranulation,  with  liberation  of  several  mediators,  among  which  histamine  is  the  most  important.  
The causes of urticaria vary widely, but the end result is similar and is based on mast cell activation.  
Causes are acute IgE mediated allergy (e.g to drugs or foods; in which case it is possible that the acute 
urticaria evolves to more generalised anaphylactic reactions), contact reactions (eg latex, water, certain 
chemicals),  pseudo  allergic  reactions  (foods,  drugs),  physical  triggers  (dermographism,  pressure, 
vibration,  heat,  cold…),  exercise,  autoimmunity  or  unknown  causes.  The  course  can  be  hyper  acute 
(from minutes to hours), acute (hours to six weeks) or chronic (more than six weeks).  
The rationale for the antihistamine treatment (and of second generation antihistamines in particular) in 
urticaria patients is based upon the insights in the pathophysiology of urticaria, with the prominent role 
of histamine as a mediator.  
The effectiveness of second generation oral antihistamines have however mainly been studied in the 
treatment of chronic urticaria, but the common patho-physiologic role of histamine supports their use 
in urticaria in general.  
Urticaria  can  be  mimicked  by  injection  of  histamine  in  the  skin  of  normal  volunteers,  and  second 
generation antihistamines effectively suppress this reaction1. 
Treatment guidelines for urticaria 
The  2006  guideline  of  the  European  Academy  of  Allergy  and  Clinical  Immunology  (EAACI), 
approved by the European Dermatology Forum (EDF)2, states:  
“Considering their good safety profile, second generation antihistamines must be considered as first 
line symptomatic treatment for urticaria”.  
Similarly,  the  position  statements  of  the  American  Academy  of  Emergency  Medicine3  and  other 
literature references4 for treatment of acute urticaria in emergency departments uniformly recommend 
the use of second generation antihistamines as first line symptomatic treatment.  
Clinical  Efficacy 
Clinical  studies  with  antihistaminics  are  generally performed  in  chronic  idiopathic  urticaria  patients, 
because chronic patients can be prospectively recruited. Studies in other types of urticaria are limited.  
1  Simons  et  al;  A  double  blind,  single  dose,  crossover  comparison  of  cetirizine,  terfenadine,  loratadine, 
astemisole  and  chlorpheniramine  versus  placebo:  suppressive  effects  on  histamine  induced  wheals  and  flares 
during 24 hours in normal subjects; J Allergy Clin Immunol 1990, 86: 540-7 
2 Zuberbier et al; EEACI/GA LEN/EDF guideline: management of urticaria; Allergy 2006; 61:321-331 
3 Winters M, Clinical practice guideline: initial evaluation and management of patients presenting with acute 
urticaria or angioedema, Position statements of the American Academy of Emergency Medicine, July 2006, 
http://www.aaem.org/positionstatements/clinical practice_guidelines.php,  
4 1) Simons FE; Advances in H1 antihistamines ; New Engl J Med 2004, 351:2203-17; 2) Baxi and Dinakar, 
Immunol Allergy Clin North America, 2005;25: 353-67 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
One  study  has  prospectively  studied  the  prevention  of  acute  urticaria  in  510  atopic  children  with 
levocetirizine given for 18 months, and found it to be effective5. 
Studies  on  treatment  in  acute  urticaria  can  only  be  done  in  emergency  departments  or  in  general 
practice, as the attacks are totally unexpected, and then last for hours to weeks.  
For  some  types  of  chronic  urticaria,  different  from  the  “chronic  idiopathic  urticaria”,  literature 
references (including studies with desloratadine) support the use of second generation antihistamines 
in cold urticaria6, delayed pressure urticaria7, dermographic urticaria8, cholinergic urticaria9.  
Clinical safety 
No  new  clinical  safety  data  have  been  submitted  in  this  application.  From  the  safety  database  of 
desloratadine all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have already been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Overall conclusions and benefit-risk assessment 
Based  on  the  limitation  to  recruit  patients  with  urticarial  conditions  other  than  chronic  urticaria  and 
taking into account the common patho-physiologic role of histamine in the development of urticaria, 
the CHMP is of the opinion that the recommendation from EAACI guideline is justified and considers 
the use of the second generation antihistaminics as first line symptomatic treatment of urticaria to be 
acceptable.  Furthermore,  the  safety  profile  in  the  proposed  indication  is  expected  to  remain 
unchanged. 
Thus, the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk for Azomyr in the symptomatic treatment of urticaria 
was favourable and recommended the variation to the marketing authorisation. 
3. 
CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION 
The MAH proposed the following changes (new text= underlined, deleted text= strikethrough) : 
Summary of Product Characteristics  
•   Section 4.1 
Azomyr is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with: 
- 
- 
allergic rhinitis (see section 5.1) 
chronic idiopathic urticaria 
•  Section 4.2 
Reference to “chronic idiopathic urticaria” has been changed to “urticaria” in accordance to the change 
in section 4.1 of the SPC. 
•  Section 5.1 
Chronic idiopathic urticaria was studied as a model for urticarial conditions. Since histamine release is 
a  causal  factor  in  urticarial  diseases,  desloratadine  is  expected  to  be  effective  in  providing 
symptomatic relief for other urticarial conditions, in addition to chronic idiopathic urticaria. 
5 Simons et al; H1-antihistamine treatment in young atopic children, Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 2007;99: 261-
66 
6 Juhlin L; inhibition of cold urticaria by desloratadine, J Derm Treat 2004; 15:51-54 
7 Nettis et al; Desloratadine in combination with montelukast suppresses the dermographometer challenge test 
papule, and is effective in the treatment of delayed pressure urticaria: a randomized double-blind, placebo-
controlled study, Br J Dermatol 2006; 155:1279-1282 
8 Sharpe et al; the effect of cetirizine on symptoms and wealing in dermographic urticaria, Br J Dermatol 1993; 
129:580-583 
9 Zuberbier et al; double-blind crossover study of high-dose cetirizine in cholinergic urticaria. Dermatology 
1996; 193:324-327 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Package Leaflet 
•  Sections 1 and 3 
Reference to “chronic idiopathic urticaria” has been changed to “urticaria” in accordance to the change 
in section 4.1 of the SPC. 
Overall,  the  CHMP  considered  the  proposed  SPC  and  PL  changes  acceptable  but  required  a  cross-
reference  from  section  4.1  to  section  5.1  of  the  SPC  to  explain  that  it  is  hardly  possible  to  perform 
clinical  trials  in  the  applied  indication and  thus  the extension  of indication  from  ‘chronic  idiopathic 
urticaria’ to ‘urticaria’ is based on the use in patients with chronic urticaria as it is advised in clinical 
guidelines. 
Further to the CHMP recommendations, the MAH amended the proposal for sections 4.1 and 5.1 of 
the SPC as follows (new text= underlined, deleted text= strikethrough): 
•  Section 4.1 
Azomyr is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with: 
- 
- 
allergic rhinitis (see section 5.1) 
chronic idiopathic urticaria (see section 5.1) 
•  Section 5.1 
Chronic  idiopathic  urticaria  was  studied  as  a  clinical  model  for  urticarial  conditions,  since the 
underlying  pathophysiology  is  similar,  regardless  of  etiology, and because  chronic  patients  can  be 
more easily recruited prospectively. Since histamine release is a causal factor in all urticarial diseases, 
desloratadine is expected to be effective in providing symptomatic relief for other urticarial conditions, 
in addition to chronic idiopathic urticaria, as advised in clinical guidelines. 
Chronic idiopathic urticaria was studied as a model for urticarial conditions. Since histamine release is 
a  causal  factor  in  urticarial  diseases,  desloratadine  is  expected  to  be  effective  in  providing 
symptomatic relief for other urticarial conditions, in addition to chronic idiopathic urticaria. 
The CHMP considered the final proposal for sections 4.1 and 5.1 of the SPC acceptable. 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
