Summary of the risk management plan for Azopt 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Azopt. The RMP 
details important risks of Azopt, how these risks can be minimized, and how 
more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Azopt’s  risks  and  uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Azopt's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Azopt should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Azopt should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment 
Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Azopt's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Azopt  is  indicated  to  decrease  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in  ocular 
hypertension  and  open-angle  glaucoma  as  monotherapy  in  adult  patients 
unresponsive  to  beta-blockers  or  in  adult  patients  in  whom  beta-blockers 
are  contraindicated,  or  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  beta-blockers  or 
prostaglandin  analogues.  Azopt  contains  brinzolamide  as  the  active 
substance  and  it  is  given  as  eye  drops  administered  by  topical  ocular 
administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Azopt’s benefits can be found 
in Azopt’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
EMA 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/azopt. 
medicine’s 
website, 
under 
the 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks 
Important  risks  of  Azopt,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about Azopt 's risks, are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on 
correct use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen 
so to ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the 
patient (e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its 
risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment 
so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Azopt  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified 
or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof 
of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Azopt.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. 
on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II B: Summary of important risks 
Not applicable, since there are no important risks/safety concerns. 
II C: Post-authorization development planII.C.1 Studies which are 
conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of Azopt. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for Azopt. 
 
 
