ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
AZOPT 10 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of suspension contains 10 mg brinzolamide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each ml of suspension contains 0.1 mg benzalkonium chloride. 
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Eye drops, suspension. 
White to off-white suspension. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
ocular hypertension 
open-angle glaucoma 
AZOPT is indicated to decrease elevated intraocular pressure in: 
• 
• 
as monotherapy in adult patients unresponsive to beta-blockers or in adult patients in whom beta-
blockers are contraindicated, or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers or prostaglandin analogues (see 
also section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
When used as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy, the dose is one drop of AZOPT in the conjunctival 
sac of the affected eye(s) twice daily. Some patients may have a better response with one drop 
three times a day. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
No dose adjustment in elderly patients is necessary. 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
AZOPT has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and is therefore not recommended in 
such patients. 
AZOPT has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 30 ml/min) or in patients with hyperchloraemic acidosis. Since brinzolamide and its main metabolite 
are excreted predominantly by the kidney, AZOPT is therefore contra-indicated in such patients (see 
also section 4.3). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of AZOPT in infants, children and adolescents aged 0 to 17 years have not 
been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1. AZOPT is not 
recommended for use in infants, children and adolescents. 
Method of administration 
For ocular use. 
Nasolacrimal occlusion or gently closing the eyelid after instillation is recommended. This may reduce 
the systemic absorption of medicinal products administered via the ocular route and result in a 
decrease in systemic side effects. 
Instruct the patient to shake the bottle well before use. After the cap is removed, if tamper evident snap 
collar is loose, remove before using the product. 
To prevent contamination of the dropper tip and suspension, care must be taken not to touch the 
eyelids, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper tip of the bottle. Instruct patients to keep 
the bottle tightly closed when not in use. 
When substituting another ophthalmic antiglaucoma agent with AZOPT, discontinue the other agent 
and start the following day with AZOPT. 
If more than one topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used, the medicines must be 
administered at least 5 minutes apart. Eye ointments should be administered last. 
If a dose is missed, treatment should be continued with the next dose as planned. The dose should not 
exceed one drop in the affected eye(s) three times daily. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Known hypersensitivity to sulphonamides (see also section 4.4). 
Severe renal impairment. 
Hyperchloraemic acidosis. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Systemic effects 
AZOPT is a sulphonamide inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase and, although administered topically, is 
absorbed systemically. The same types of adverse drug reactions that are attributable to sulphonamides 
may occur with topical administration, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN). At the time of prescription, patients should be advised of the signs and 
symptoms and monitored closely for skin reactions. If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity 
occur, AZOPT should be withdrawn immediately. 
Acid-base disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Use with caution 
in patients with risk of renal impairment because the possible risk of metabolic acidosis (see 
section 4.2). 
Brinzolamide has not been studied in pre-term infants (less than 36 weeks gestational age) or those 
less than 1 week of age. Patients with significant renal tubular immaturity or abnormalities should only 
receive brinzolamide after careful consideration of the risk benefit balance because of the possible risk 
of metabolic acidosis. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness 
and/or physical coordination. AZOPT is absorbed systemically and therefore this may occur with 
topical administration. 
Concomitant therapy 
There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase 
inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and AZOPT. The concomitant 
administration of AZOPT and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors has not been studied and is not 
recommended (see also section 4.5). 
AZOPT was primarily evaluated in concomitant administration with timolol during adjunctive 
glaucoma therapy. Additionally the IOP-reducing effect of AZOPT as adjunctive therapy to the 
prostaglandin analogue travoprost has been studied. No long term data are available on the use of 
AZOPT as adjunctive therapy to travoprost(see also section 5.1). 
There is limited experience with AZOPT in the treatment of patients with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma 
or pigmentary glaucoma. Caution should be used in treating these patients and close monitoring of 
intraocular pressure (IOP) is recommended. AZOPT has not been studied in patients with narrow-
angle glaucoma and its use is not recommended in these patients. 
The possible role of brinzolamide on corneal endothelial function has not been investigated in patients 
with compromised corneas (particularly in patients with low endothelial cell count). Specifically, 
patients wearing contact lenses have not been studied and careful monitoring of these patients when 
using brinzolamide is recommended, since carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may affect corneal hydration 
and wearing contact lenses might increase the risk for the cornea. Careful monitoring of patients with 
compromised corneas such as patients with diabetes mellitus or corneal dystrophies is recommended. 
Benzalkonium chloride, which is commonly used as a preservative in ophthalmic products, has been 
reported to cause punctate keratopathy and/or toxic ulcerative keratopathy. Since AZOPT contains 
benzalkonium chloride, close monitoring is required with frequent or prolonged use in dry eye 
patients, or in conditions where the cornea is compromised. 
AZOPT has not been studied in patients wearing contact lenses. AZOPT contains benzalkonium 
chloride which may cause eye irritation and is known to discolour soft contact lenses. Contact with 
soft contact lenses is to be avoided. Patients must be instructed to remove contact lenses prior to the 
application of AZOPT and wait at least 15 minutes after instillation of the dose before reinsertion. 
Potential rebound effects following cessation of treatment with AZOPT have not been studied; the 
IOP-lowering effect is expected to last for 5-7 days. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of AZOPT in infants, children and adolescents aged 0 to 17 years have not 
been established and its use is not recommended in infants, children or adolescents 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Specific interaction studies with other medicinal products have not been performed with AZOPT. 
In clinical studies, AZOPT was used concomitantly with prostaglandin analogues and timolol 
ophthalmic preparations without evidence of adverse interactions. Association between AZOPT and 
miotics or adrenergic agonists has not been evaluated during adjunctive glaucoma therapy. 
AZOPT is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and, although administered topically, is absorbed 
systemically. Acid-base disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The 
potential for interactions must be considered in patients receiving AZOPT. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The cytochrome P-450 isozymes responsible for metabolism of brinzolamide include CYP3A4 (main), 
CYP2A6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9. It is expected that inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as ketoconazole, 
itraconazole, clotrimazole, ritonavir and troleandomycin will inhibit the metabolism of brinzolamide 
by CYP3A4. Caution is advised if CYP3A4 inhibitors are given concomitantly. However, 
accumulation of brinzolamide is unlikely as renal elimination is the major route. Brinzolamide is not 
an inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 isozymes. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of ophthalmic brinzolamide in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity following systemic administration (see also 
section 5.3). 
AZOPT is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether brinzolamide/metabolites are excreted in human milk following topical ocular 
administration. Animal studies have shown the excretion of minimal levels of brinzolamide in breast 
milk following oral administration. 
A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue 
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from AZOPT therapy taking in to account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Animal studies with brinzolamide demonstrated no effect on fertility. Studies have not been performed 
to evaluate the effect of topical ocular administration of brinzolamide on human fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
AZOPT has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Temporary blurred vision or other visual disturbances may affect the ability to drive or use machines 
(see also section 4.8). If blurred vision occurs at instillation, the patient must wait until the vision 
clears before driving or using machines. 
Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness 
and/or physical coordination (see also section 4.4 and section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In clinical studies involving 2 732 patients treated with AZOPT as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy 
to timolol maleate 5 mg/ml, the most frequently reported treatment-related adverse reactions were: 
dysgeusia (6.0%) (bitter or unusual taste, see description below) and temporary blurred vision (5.4%) 
upon instillation, lasting from a few seconds to a few minutes (see also section 4.7). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported with brinzolamide 10mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
and are classified according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to 
<1/10), uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), very rare (<1/10 000), or not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The adverse reactions were obtained from 
clinical trials and post-marketing spontaneous reports. 
System Organ Classification 
Infections and infestations 
MedDRA Preferred Term (v.15.1) 
Uncommon: nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis 
Not Known: rhinitis 
Uncommon: red blood cell count decreased, blood chloride 
increased 
Not Known: hypersensitivity 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders  Not known: decreased appetite 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: apathy, depression, depressed mood, libido 
decreased, nightmare, nervousness 
Rare: insomnia 
Uncommon: motor dysfunction, amnesia, dizziness, 
paraesthesia, headache 
Rare: memory impairment, somnolence 
Not Known: tremor, hypoaesthesia, ageusia 
Common: blurred vision, eye irritation, eye pain, foreign 
body sensation in eyes, ocular hyperaemia 
Uncommon: corneal erosion, keratitis, punctate keratitis, 
keratopathy, deposit eye, corneal staining, corneal epithelium 
defect, corneal epithelium disorder, blepharitis, eye pruritus, 
conjunctivitis, eye swelling, meibomianitis, glare, 
photophobiadry eye, allergic conjunctivitis, pterygium, 
scleral pigmentation, asthenopia, ocular discomfort, 
abnormal sensation in eye, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, 
subconjunctival cyst, conjunctival hyperaemia, eyelids 
pruritus, eye discharge, eyelid margin crusting, lacrimation 
increased 
Rare: corneal oedema, diplopia, visual acuity reduced, 
photopsia, hypoaesthesia eye, periorbital oedema, intraocular 
pressure increased, optic nerve cup/disc ratio increased 
Not Known: corneal disorder, visual disturbance, eye allergy, 
madarosis, eyelid disorder, erythema of eyelid 
Rare: tinnitus 
Not Known: vertigo 
Uncommon: cardio-respiratory distress, bradycardia, 
palpitations 
Rare: angina pectoris, heart rate irregular 
Not Known: arrhythmia, tachycardia, hypertension, blood 
pressure increased, blood pressure decreased, heart rate 
increased 
Uncommon: dyspnoea, epistaxis, oropharyngeal pain, 
pharyngolaryngeal pain, throat irritation, upper airway cough 
syndrome, rhinorrhoea, sneezing 
Rare: bronchial hyperreactivity, upper respiratory tract 
congestion, sinus congestion, nasal congestion, cough, nasal 
dryness 
Not Known: asthma 
6 
 
 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Description of selected adverse events 
Common: dysgeusia 
Uncommon: oesophagitis, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, 
dyspepsia, upper abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, 
stomach discomfort, flatulence, frequent bowel movements, 
gastrointestinal disorder, hypoaesthesia oral, paraesthesia 
oral, dry mouth 
Not Known: liver function test abnormal 
Uncommon: rash, rash maculo-papular, skin tightness 
Rare: urticaria, alopecia, pruritus generalised 
Not Known: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS)/toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN) (see section 4.4), dermatitis, 
erythema 
Uncommon: back pain, muscle spasms, myalgia 
Not Known: arthralgia, pain in extremity 
Uncommon: renal pain 
Not Known: pollakiuria 
Uncommon: erectile dysfunction 
Uncommon: pain, chest discomfort, fatigue, feeling 
abnormal 
Rare: chest pain, feeling jittery, asthenia, irritability 
Not Known: peripheral oedema, malaise 
Uncommon: foreign body in eye 
Dysgeusia (bitter or unusual taste in the mouth following instillation) was the most frequently reported 
systemic adverse reaction associated with the use of AZOPT during clinical studies. It is likely caused 
by passage of the eye drops in the nasopharynx via the nasolacrimal canal. Nasolacrimal occlusion or 
gently closing the eyelid after instillation may help reduce the incidence of this effect (see also 
section 4.2). 
AZOPT is a sulphonamide inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase with systemic absorption. Gastrointestinal, 
nervous system, haematological, renal and metabolic effects are generally associated with systemic 
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The same type of adverse reactions that are attributable to oral carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitors may occur with topical administration. 
No unexpected adverse reactions have been observed with AZOPT when used as adjunctive therapy to 
travoprost. The adverse reactions seen with the adjunctive therapy have been observed with each 
active substance alone. 
Paediatric population 
In small short-term clinical trials, approximately 12.5% of paediatric patients were observed to 
experience adverse reactions, the majority of which were local, non-serious ocular reactions such as 
conjunctival hyperaemia, eye irritation, eye discharge, and lacrimation increased (see also section 5.1). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported. 
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. Electrolyte imbalance, development of an acidotic 
state, and possible nervous system effects may occur. Serum electrolyte levels (particularly potassium) 
and blood pH levels must be monitored. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antiglaucoma preparations and miotics, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, 
ATC code: S01EC04 
Mechanism of action 
Carbonic anhydrase (CA) is an enzyme found in many tissues of the body, including the eye. Carbonic 
anhydrase catalyses the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the 
dehydration of carbonic acid. 
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humour 
secretion, presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in 
sodium and fluid transport. The result is a reduction in intraocular pressure (IOP) which is a major risk 
factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss. Brinzolamide, an 
inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase II (CA-II), the predominant iso-enzyme in the eye, with an in vitro 
IC50 of 3.2 nM and a Ki of 0.13 nM against CA-II. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The IOP-reducing effect of AZOPT as adjunctive therapy to the prostaglandin analogue travoprost 
was studied. Following a 4 week run-in with travoprost, patients with an IOP ≥19 mmHg were 
randomized to receive added treatment with brinzolamide or timolol. An additional decrease in mean 
diurnal IOP of 3.2 to 3.4 mmHg for the brinzolamide group and 3.2 to 4.2 mmHg for the timolol group 
were observed. There was an overall higher incidence of non-serious ocular adverse reactions, mainly 
related to signs of local irritation, in the brinzolamide/travoprost groups. The events were mild and did 
not affect the overall discontinuation rates in the studies (see also section 4.8). 
A clinical trial was conducted with AZOPT in 32 paediatric patients less than 6 years of age, 
diagnosed with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Some patients were naive to IOP therapy whilst 
others were on other IOP-lowering medicinal product(s). Those who had been on previous IOP 
medicinal product(s) were not required to discontinue their IOP medicinal product(s) until initiation of 
monotherapy with AZOPT. 
Among patients who were naive to IOP therapy (10 patients), the efficacy of AZOPT was similar to 
that seen previously in adults, with mean IOP reductions from baseline ranging up to 5 mmHg. Among 
patients who were on topical IOP-lowering medicinal product(s) (22 patients), mean IOP increased 
slightly from baseline in the AZOPT group. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following topical ocular administration, brinzolamide is absorbed into the systemic circulation. Due to 
its high affinity for CA-II, brinzolamide distributes extensively into the red blood cells (RBCs) and 
exhibits a long half-life in whole blood (mean of approximately 24 weeks). In humans, the metabolite 
N-desethylbrinzolamide is formed, which also binds to CA and accumulates in RBCs. This metabolite 
binds mainly to CA-I in the presence of brinzolamide. In plasma, both brinzolamide and N-
desethylbrinzolamide concentrations are low and generally below assay quantitation limits 
(<7.5 ng/ml). 
Binding to plasma proteins is not extensive (about 60%). Brinzolamide is eliminated primarily by 
renal excretion (approximately 60%). About 20% of the dose has been accounted for in urine as 
metabolite. Brinzolamide and N-desethylbrinzolamide are the predominant components in the urine 
along with trace levels (<1%) of the N-desmethoxypropyl and O-desmethyl metabolites. 
In an oral pharmacokinetic study, healthy volunteers received 1 mg capsules of brinzolamide twice 
daily for up to 32 weeks and RBC CA activity was measured to assess the degree of systemic CA 
inhibition. 
Brinzolamide saturation of RBC CA-II was achieved within 4 weeks (RBC concentrations of 
approximately 20 µM). N-Desethylbrinzolamide accumulated in RBCs to steady state within 20-
28 weeks reaching concentrations ranging from 6-30 µM. The inhibition of total RBC CA activity at 
steady state was approximately 70-75%. 
Subjects with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30-60 ml/minute) were administered 
1 mg of brinzolamide twice daily orally for up to 54 weeks. Brinzolamide RBC concentration ranged 
from about 20 to 40 µM by week 4 of treatment. At steady-state, brinzolamide and its metabolite RBC 
concentrations ranged from 22.0 to 46.1 and 17.1 to 88.6 µM, respectively. 
N-desethylbrinzolamide RBC concentrations increased and total RBC CA activity decreased with 
decreasing creatinine clearance but brinzolamide RBC concentrations and CA-II activity remained 
unchanged. In subjects with the highest degree of renal impairment inhibition of total CA activity was 
greater although it was inferior to 90% at steady-state. 
In a topical ocular study, at steady-state, brinzolamide RBC concentrations were similar to those found 
in the oral study, but levels of N-desethylbrinzolamide were lower. Carbonic anhydrase activity was 
approximately 40-70% of predose levels. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, and carcinogenic potential. 
Developmental toxicity studies in rabbits with oral doses of brinzolamide of up to 6 mg/kg/day 
(125 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose) revealed no effect on foetal development 
despite significant maternal toxicity. Similar studies in rats resulted in slightly reduced ossification of 
skull and sternebrae of foetuses of dams receiving brinzolamide at doses of 18 mg/kg/day (375 times 
the recommended human ophthalmic dose), but not 6 mg/kg/day. These findings occurred at doses that 
caused metabolic acidosis with decreased body weight gain in dams and decreased foetal weights. 
Dose-related decreases in foetal weights were observed in pups of dams receiving brinzolamide orally 
ranging from a slight decrease (about 5-6%) at 2 mg/kg/day to nearly 14% at 18 mg/kg/day. During 
lactation, the no adverse effect level in the offspring was 5 mg/kg/day. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Mannitol (E421) 
Carbomer 974P 
Tyloxapol 
Edetate disodium 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid/sodium hydroxide (to adjust pH) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf-life 
2 years. 
4 weeks after first opening. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
5 and 10 ml opaque low density polyethylene bottles with polypropylene screw caps. 
The following pack sizes are available: outer cartons containing 1 x 5 ml, 3 x 5 ml and 1 x 10 ml 
bottles. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/00/129/001-3 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 9 March 2000 
Date of latest renewal: 29 January 2010 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B 
C 
D 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR SINGLE BOTTLE, 5 ml, 10 ml + CARTON FOR 3 x 5 ml BOTTLES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
AZOPT 10 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each ml of suspension contains 10 mg of brinzolamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains benzalkonium chloride, mannitol (E421), carbomer 974P, tyloxapol, edetate disodium, 
sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid/sodium hydroxide (to adjust pH) and purified water. See the 
package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Eye drops, suspension 
5 ml 
10 ml 
3 x 5ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Shake well before use. 
Ocular use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard four weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
Opened (1): 
Opened (2): 
Opened (3): 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/00/129/001 
EU/1/00/129/002 
EU/1/00/129/003 
1 x 5 ml 
1 x 10 ml 
3 x 5 ml 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
azopt 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL, 5 ml & 10 ml 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
AZOPT 10 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide 
Ocular use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 ml 
10 ml 
6 
OTHER 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
AZOPT 10 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or your pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What AZOPT is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use AZOPT 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use AZOPT 
Possible side effects 
How to store AZOPT 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What AZOPT is and what it is used for 
AZOPT contains brinzolamide which belongs to a group of medicines called carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitors. It reduces pressure within the eye. 
AZOPT eye drops are used to treat high pressure in the eye. This pressure can lead to an illness called 
glaucoma. 
If the pressure in the eye is too high, it can damage your sight. 
2.  What you need to know before you use AZOPT 
Do not use AZOPT 
- 
- 
if you have severe kidney problems. 
if you are allergic to brinzolamide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are allergic to medicines called sulphonamides. Examples include medicines used to treat 
diabetes and infections and also diuretics (water tablets). AZOPT may cause the same allergy. 
if you have too much acidity in your blood (a condition called hyperchloraemic acidosis). 
- 
- 
If you have further questions, ask your doctor for advice. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using AZOPT: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have kidney or liver problems. 
if you have dry eyes or cornea problems. 
if you are taking other sulphonamide medicines 
if you have a specific form of glaucoma in which the pressure inside the eye rises due to 
deposits that block fluid draining out (pseudoexfoliative glaucoma or pigmentary glaucoma) or 
a specific form of glaucoma in which the pressure inside the eye (sometimes rapidly) rises 
because the eye bulges forward and blocks fluid draining out (narrow-angle glaucoma) 
if you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores after 
using AZOPT or other related medicines. 
- 
Take special care with AZOPT: 
Serious skin reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been 
reported in association with brinzolamide treatment. Stop using AZOPT and seek medical attention 
immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these serious skin reactions described in 
section 4. 
Children and adolescents 
AZOPT is not to be used by infants, children or adolescents under 18 years of age unless advised by 
your doctor. 
Other medicines and AZOPT 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
If you are taking another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (acetazolamide or dorzolamide, see 
section 1 What AZOPT is and what it is used for), talk to your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
Women who may become pregnant are advised to use effective contraception during AZOPT 
treatment. The use of AZOPT is not recommended during pregnancy or breast-feeding. Do not use 
AZOPT unless clearly indicated by your doctor. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use machines until your vision is clear. You may find that your vision is blurred for a 
time just after using AZOPT. 
AZOPT may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness and/or physical 
coordination. If affected, take care when driving or using machines. 
AZOPT contains benzalkonium chloride 
This medicine contains 3.35 µg benzalkonium chloride per drop (= 1 dose) which is equivalent to 
0.01% or 0.1 mg/ml. 
AZOPT contains a preservative (benzalkonium chloride) which may be absorbed by soft contact 
lenses and may change the colour of the contact lenses. You should remove contact lenses before 
using this medicine and put them back 15 minutes afterwards. Benzalkonium chloride may also cause 
eye irritation, especially if you have dry eyes or disorders of the cornea (the clear layer at the front of 
the eye). If you feel abnormal eye sensation, stinging or pain in the eye after using this medicine, talk 
to your doctor. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to use AZOPT 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Only use AZOPT for your eyes. Do not swallow or inject. 
The recommended dose is 
1 drop in the affected eye or eyes twice a day - morning and night. 
Use this much unless your doctor told you to do something different. Only use AZOPT in both eyes if 
your doctor told you to. Take it for as long as your doctor told you to. 
How to use 
1 
2 
3 
Get the AZOPT bottle and a mirror 
• 
•  Wash your hands 
• 
Shake the bottle and twist off the cap. After the cap is removed, if the tamper evident snap collar 
is loose, remove before using product. 
Hold the bottle, pointing down, between your thumb and middle finger 
Tilt your head back. Pull down your eyelid with a clean finger, until there is a ‘pocket’ between 
the eyelid and your eye. The drop will go in here (picture 1) 
Bring the bottle tip close to the eye. Use the mirror if it helps 
Do not touch your eye or eyelid, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper. It could 
infect the drops 
Gently press on the base of the bottle to release one drop of AZOPT at a time. 
Do not squeeze the bottle: it is designed so that a gentle press on the bottom is all that it needs 
(picture 2) 
After using AZOPT, press a finger to the corner of your eye, by the nose (picture 3) for at least 
1 minute. This helps to stop AZOPT getting into the rest of the body. 
If you take drops in both eyes, repeat the steps for your other eye. 
Put the bottle cap back on firmly immediately after use 
Use up one bottle before opening the next bottle. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If a drop misses your eye, try again. 
If you are using other eye drops, leave at least 5 minutes between putting in AZOPT and the other 
drops. Eye ointments should be administered last. 
If you use more AZOPT than you should 
If you get too much in your eyes, rinse it all out with warm water. Do not put in any more drops until 
it’s time for your next regular dose. 
If you forget to use AZOPT 
Use a single drop as soon as you remember, and then go back to your regular routine. Do not use a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using AZOPT 
If you stop using AZOPT without speaking to your doctor, the pressure in your eye will not be 
controlled which could lead to loss of sight. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everyone gets them. 
The following side effects have been seen with AZOPT. 
Stop using AZOPT and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the following 
symptoms: 
• 
reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin 
peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis). 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
Effects in the eye: blurred vision, eye irritation, eye pain, eye discharge, itchy eye, dry eye, 
abnormal eye sensation, redness of the eye. 
General side effects: bad taste. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
Effects in the eye: sensitivity to light, inflammation or infection of the conjunctiva, eye 
swelling, eyelid itching, redness or swelling, deposits in eye, glare, burning sensation, growth 
on surface of eye, increased pigmentation of the eye, tired eyes, eyelid crusting, or increased 
tear production. 
General side effects: decreased or reduced heart function, a forceful heartbeat that may be rapid 
or irregular, decreased heart rate, difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, cough, decreased red 
blood cell count in blood, increased chlorine level in blood, dizziness, difficulty with memory, 
depression, nervousness, decreased emotional interest, nightmare, generalized weakness, 
fatigue, feeling abnormal, pain, movement problems, decreased sex drive, male sexual 
difficulty, cold symptoms, chest congestion, sinus infection, throat irritation, throat pain, 
abnormal or decreased sensation in mouth, inflammation of the lining of the oesophagus, 
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, upset stomach, frequent bowel movements, diarrhoea, 
intestinal gas, digestive disorder, kidney pain, muscle pain, muscle spasms, back pain, nose 
bleeds, runny nose, stuffy nose, sneezing, rash, abnormal skin sensation, itching, smooth skin 
rash or redness covered by elevated bumps, skin tightness, headache, dry mouth, debris in eye. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
- 
- 
Effects in the eye: corneal swelling, double or reduced vision, abnormal vision, flashes of light 
in the field of vision, decreased eye sensation, swelling around the eye, increased pressure in 
eye, damage to the optic nerve. 
General side effects: memory impairment, drowsiness, chest pain, upper respiratory tract 
congestion, sinus congestion, nasal congestion, dry nose, ringing in ears, hair loss, generalized 
itching, feeling jittery, irritability, irregular heart rate, body weakness, difficulty sleeping, 
wheezing, itchy skin rash. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
- 
Effects in the eye: eyelid abnormality, visual disturbance, corneal disorder, eye allergy, 
decreased growth or number of eyelashes, eyelid redness. 
General side effects: increased allergic symptoms, decreased sensation, tremor, loss or decrease 
in taste, decreased blood pressure, increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, joint pain, 
asthma, pain in extremity, skin redness, inflammation, or itching, abnormal liver blood tests, 
swelling of the extremities, frequent urination, decreased appetite, feeling unwell, reddish non-
elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin peeling, 
ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes, which can be preceded by fever and flu-like 
symptoms. These serious skin rashes can be potentially life-threatening (Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store AZOPT 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and box after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
You must throw away a bottle four weeks after you first opened it, to prevent infections. Write 
down the date you opened each bottle in the space below and in the space on the bottle label and box. 
For a pack containing a single bottle, write only one date. 
Opened (1): 
Opened (2): 
Opened (3): 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What AZOPT contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is brinzolamide. Each millilitre contains 10 mg of brinzolamide. 
The other ingredients are benzalkonium chloride, carbomer 974P, edetate disodium, mannitol 
(E421), purified water, sodium chloride, tyloxapol. Tiny amounts of hydrochloric acid or 
sodium hydroxide are added to keep acidity levels (pH levels) normal. 
What AZOPT looks like and contents of the pack 
AZOPT is a milky liquid (a suspension) supplied in a pack containing a 5 ml or a 10 ml plastic bottle 
with a screw cap, or in a pack containing three 5 ml plastic bottles with screw caps. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
S.A. Alcon - Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
