PRODUCT INFORMATION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Azopt.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 November 2002. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Azopt contains the new active ingredient brinzolamide, which was developed for ophthalmic use and 
is  a  topically  effective  inhibitor  of  CA-II.  It  is  intended  to  decrease  elevated  IOP  in  ocular 
hypertension and open-angle glaucoma, as monotherapy in patients unresponsive to beta-blockers or 
in patients in whom beta-blockers are contra-indicated, or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers. 
When used as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy, the dose is one drop of Azopt in the conjunctival 
sac of the affected eye(s) BID. 
Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. It is a frequent disease and it has 
been estimated that by the year 2000, 66.8 million people will be affected by it. Glaucoma is an optic 
neuropathy  that  leads  to  loss  of  optic-nerve  tissue  with  an  excavation  of  the  ophthalmoscopically 
visible optic nerve head and consequently, to a progressive loss of vision. Elevated IOP is a risk factor 
for its development and reduction of IOP has been demonstrated to protect against further damage to 
the optic nerve. 
Up to 10% of people over the age of 40 years have an IOP above 21 mmHg (normal range 10 to 21 
mmHg); those who have such high pressures but no optic-nerve damage are considered to have ocular 
hypertension. In medical practice, those patients who have ocular hypertension should be periodically 
examined  (optic  nerve,  visual  field)  to  determine  whether  there  is  evidence  of  progressive  damage 
which  would indicate the  need  to start  with treatment. However, in some cases (e.g.,  additional risk 
factors for glaucoma) a high IOP may be treated even in the absence of optic nerve damage. 
The  current therapeutic approach is focused on lowering IOP. Pharmacological treatments are based 
on  the  decrease  of  production  of  aqueous  humor  produced  by  the  ciliary  body  but  there  is  also  the 
possibility  to  increase  its  outflow  by  means  of  surgery  or  laser.  The  target  pressure  is  that  which  is 
thought to be safe to the optic nerve, taking into account the current amount of optic damage and the 
pressure at which the damage occurred, but in principle, it should stay below 21 mmHg.  
The medical treatment of glaucoma usually starts with a topical beta-blocker that permits a sufficient 
decline in IOP in most cases. If necessary (patients poorly controlled on beta-blockers or when beta-
blockers are contra-indicated), either other topical drugs can be used or other topical or systemic drugs 
have to be added to the patient’s regimen. Laser procedures or filtering surgery are usually performed 
after failure of medical treatment. 
Beta-blockers,  and  particularly  timolol,  which  is  the  most  popular  product,  have  a  high 
pressure-lowering efficacy, long duration of action and a few ocular undesirable effects. However, the 
systemic side effects of topical beta-blockers (bronchospasm and cardiac side effects) may limit their 
use  in  special  populations  (e.g.,  patients  suffering  from  asthma,  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary 
disease, bradycardia). 
Carbonic  anhydrase  (CA)  inhibitors  decrease  the  aqueous  humor  production  by  means  of  inhibiting 
the conversion of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate at the ciliary body. In order to decrease IOP through 
that mechanism, more than 98% of the activity of the enzyme must be inhibited. Oral CAIs such as 
oral acetazolamide have been a classical treatment for glaucoma but are very poorly tolerated because 
of systemic side effects. The first topical CA-II inhibitor, dorzolamide, was approved for the treatment 
of glaucoma or ocular hypertension when beta-blockers are contraindicated or as adjunctive therapy to 
beta-blockers. Side effects of dorzolamide are mainly local. Most of the systemic side effects of oral 
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs) are not present with topical therapy because they are related to 
the systemic inhibition of the CA present in many tissues. However, some of the severe side effects, 
such  as  blood  dyscrasias  were  not  dose-related  and  therefore,  attention  should  be  paid  to  the 
occurrence of such side effects. 
1/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Brinzolamide  is  a  new  CA  inhibitor,  also  selective  for  CA-II,  which  is  the  predominant  ocular 
isoenzyme. It has been developed only for topical use, and shows an efficacy and safety profile, which 
is similar to that of dorzolamide. 
Also recently, two other products have received an approval in one or more EU Member States for the 
treatment of glaucoma, also as a second line therapy:  
1) 
2) 
latanoprost,  a  prostaglandin  analogue  with  the  indication  of  reduction  of  elevated  ocular 
pressure  in  patients  with  open  angle  glaucoma  and  ocular  hypertension  intolerant  or  with 
insufficient response to any other therapy.  
Brimonidine,  a  new  alpha2  agonist,  in  monotherapy  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or 
ocular hypertension, who do not tolerate therapy with beta-blockers topically and/or patients in 
which beta-blockers are contraindicated. In adjunctive therapy, it is used topically in addition to 
a beta-blocker agent, when IOP can not be controlled properly. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The product is formulated as a suspension in a purified water based vehicle. It contains benzalkonium 
chloride  as  a  preservative,  edetate  disodium  as  a  preservative  and  chelating  agent  ,  sodium  chloride 
and  mannitol  as    tonicity  agents,  tyloxapol  as  a  wetting  agent  and  carbomer  974P  as  a  suspending 
agent. Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid are used for pH adjustment. Azopt does not contain any 
materials of animal or human origin or derivatives of such materials. Such materials or derivatives are 
not  used  in  the  manufacturing  process  either.  The  container  is  a  natural  low-density  polyethylene 
(LDPE)  bottle.  The  container  is  equipped  with  a  natural  LDPE  dispensing  plug  and  a  white 
polypropylene closure.  
Active substance 
Brinzolamide  is  a  new  active  substance,  white  to  off-white  crystals,  and  is  not  described  in  a 
pharmacopoeia.  The  compound  has  a  single  chiral  centre  that  has  been  established  as  having  the  R 
configuration.  It  is  produced  by  two  manufacturers  using  a  validated  stereoselective  process,  which 
proceeds in eight steps, including final purification, from commercially available starting materials.  
The  two  manufacturers  are  Amcis  AG  (Bubendorf,  Switzerland)  and  Sylachim,  Finorga  division 
(Chasse sur Rhône, France). During process development, the synthetic route for the active substance 
was  optimised  by  Amcis.  Therefore,  not  all  of  the  batches  of  brinzolamide  described  in  this  dossier 
were prepared using the current commercial process. However, these modifications do not affect the 
quality and the specifications of the active substance, and have no impact on safety and efficacy.  
Batches  manufactured  according  to  old  procedures  contained  9  impurities  (A,  B,  C,  D,  F,  G,  H,  S-
isomer  and  PS4999)  at  more  than  0.1%.  Also  three  non-identified  impurities  have  been  detected  in 
some of the batches at more than 0.1%. These impurities have not been detected in current batches at 
more than 0.1%. 
The number and percentage of impurities detected in batches manufactured according to the optimised 
procedure has been reduced. Only impurities A, G, F, H, S-isomer and PS 4999 have been detected. 
None of the specified impurities have been detected as degradants in the finished product, except for 
the (S)-isomer. 
A second degradation product, the des-ethyl compound, is observed as an impurity in drug substance, 
but only at concentrations less than 0.1%. This impurity will be controlled as an unspecified impurity 
(<0.1%) in the drug substance specification. 
The  routine  controls  and  established  specifications  include  description,  identification  (IR  and  chiral 
HPLC) and solution colour and clarity. 
Impurities  are  determined  by  HPLC.  The  impurity  limits  in  the  specification  are  justified  by 
toxicology studies. 
2/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Chiral  purity  is  also  determined  by  HPLC  (S-isomer  ≤  0.5%).  The  S-isomer  is  observed  both  as  an 
impurity  and  a  degradation  product,  and  an  additional  toxicology  study,  N96-99,  was  done  which 
included the S-isomer at 20%. This study supports the proposed specification. 
The  solvent  isopropyl  alcohol  has  been  detected  in  brinzolamide,  which  is  used  for  the  final 
recrystallisation  phase.  The  results  obtained  from  the  batches  manufactured  using  the  optimised 
process  support  that  there  is  no  need  to  perform  routine  control  of  class  2  solvents  used  during  the 
manufacturing process. Isopropyl alcohol, which is a class 3 solvent and relatively non-toxic, is tested 
by the general method of loss on drying. 
No metal catalysts are used in the procedure. However, the catalyst used contains boron, and several 
of the reactants contain lithium. Boron was detected in two batches (2 ppm), calcium was detected in 
one batch (12 ppm), and lithium was not detected in any of the tested batches. The specifications for 
heavy metals (20 ppm) and residue on ignition (≤ 0.1%) are consistent with the quality produced and 
are acceptable considering the low dose of the product.  
The  assay  is  performed  by  HPLC  (98.0-101.0%,  dried  base),  and  a  test  for  microbiologic  quality  
(≤ 100 CFU/g) is included.  
Only  one crystal form  has been formed; however, this  is  not specifically controlled as  brinzolamide 
dissolves during the product manufacturing process (see further).  
Results of 19 batches have been presented (7 batches manufactured by AMCIS following the previous 
procedure, 4 batches manufactured by AMCIS and 8 batches manufactured by Finorga following the 
optimised  procedure).  All  batches  manufactured  according  to  the  optimised  procedure  meet  the 
specifications. Batches obtained following the previous procedure, present a higher level of impurities, 
and do not meet specifications. 
The results presented support the quality level established and confirm the consistency and uniformity 
of the manufacturing process. 
The active substance is stored in polyethylene bags in well-closed container. The analytical methods 
used  in  the  stability  studies  were  similar  to  those  used  for  the  routine  control  of  the  raw  material. 
Three-year long-term stability date and 6 months of accelerated stability data are available for active 
substance  synthesised  by  the  previous  AMCIS  process.  One  batch  from  each  of  the  two  suppliers 
using the optimised process was placed on an accelerated stability study to demonstrate equivalence to 
the initial lots tested. Additional studies according to ICH conditions on three batches from each of the 
suppliers have also been started to confirm the retest period. 
A  photostability  study  was  performed  prior  to  issuance  of  ICH  Guideline  and  no  significant 
degradation products were observed.  
On the basis of these data it can be concluded that brinzolamide is a stable drug substance and is not 
photosensitive or hygroscopic. A retest period of two years is acceptable. 
Other ingredients 
All  the  excipients  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  drug  products  are  of  European  Pharmacopoeia 
(Ph.Eur.)  quality,  except  tyloxapol,  which  is  of  US  Pharmacopoeia  (USP)  quality.  Certificates  of 
analysis of all excipients are presented, which are in accordance with the proposed specifications. 
Product development and finished product 
The objective of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a stable, well-preserved 1% sterile 
suspension dosage form.   
The  enantiomeric  form  used  in  Azopt  is  the  R-isomer.  A  small  amount  of  the  S-isomer  is  formed 
during autoclaving.  The amount is dependent on the time/temperature exposure of the solution. This 
is  controlled  in  the  finished  product  at  not  more  than  1.5%  of  the  total  brinzolamide,  which  is 
toxicologically qualified. 
The  clinical  trial  formulations  contained  different  percentages  of  the  active  ingredient  ranging  from 
0%  to  3%.  A  5%  excess  of  brinzolamide  was  added  to  all  but  one  of  the  development  batches  in 
anticipation  of  losses  during  manufacturing.  This  excess  was  found  to  be  unnecessary  for 
manufacturing scale-up.  
3/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
All  clinical  trial  formulations  contain  an  overage  of  5%  benzalkonium  chloride,  which  has  been 
removed  from  the  proposed  formulation  intended  for  marketing.  There  were  also  differences  with 
regard to the carbomer (934 P vs. 974P) and the surfactant (polysorbate 80 vs. tyloxapol). 
Results  showed  that  brinzolamide  was  soluble  only  to  about  0.04  at  physiologic  pH  and  room 
temperature.  Therefore  a  suspension  dosage  form  was  designed.  However,  at  elevated  temperatures 
brinzolamide dissolves, but is recrystallised into large needle-like crystals (~ 200 µm) during cooling 
and therefore it is not possible to terminally sterilise the product in the final container. 
The  main  feature  of  the  manufacturing  process  is  the  aseptic  ball  milling  of  a  sterile  (autoclaved) 
slurry  of  brinzolamide.  This  is  effected  by  zirconium  alloy  beads.  Only  one  polymorphic  form  of 
brinzolamide has been observed and there are no polymorphic changes during manufacturing. 
The manufacturing process is composed of five major steps: 
1) 
2) 
3) 
4) 
5) 
Preparation of the milling slurry. Transfer of the tyloxapol solution to milling bottles, addition 
of beads and active ingredient, and steam sterilisation followed by aseptic milling; 
Preparation  of  the  vehicle  concentrate  (containing  soluble  ingredients)  and  carbomer  slurry. 
Adjustment of the pH and sterilisation in a reactor; 
Aseptic  addition  of  milling  slurry  to  the  previous  reactor.  Rinsing  of  the  beads  with  sterilised 
water; 
Sterile filling (class A) into sterilised packaging (gamma irradiation or EtO); 
Secondary packaging. 
The product is being manufactured in a facility that holds the necessary Manufacturing Authorisation 
(see Annex II of the Opinion). 
The  finished  product  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance,  identification  (HPLC,  chiral  HPLC 
(R)),  brinzolamide  assay  (HPLC;  95-105%),  benzalkonium  chloride  identity  and  assay  (HPLC,  90-
110%),  disodium  edetate  dihydrate  identity  and  assay  (HPLC,  90-110%),  pH  (7.1-7.9),  osmolality 
(270-320 mOsm/kg), resuspendability (NMT 15 seconds), viscosity (20-150 mPa.s), sterility (EP), and 
fill volume. 
Particle  size  distribution  is  important.  A  validated  method,  HIAC,  for  measuring  the  suspension 
particle size has been developed, since the Ph.Eur. method (microscope) is difficult to use for products 
containing carbomer, as these products contain small gel-globules with a similar appearance to that of 
the  particles.  Specifications  concerning  particle  size  are  in  accordance  with  Ph.Eur.  for  this  type  of 
compound. 
Degradation  products  are  measured  by  HPLC  (total  NMT  1%  (except  S-isomer);  des-ethyl 
brinzolamide NMT 0.2% ; any single unspecified NMT 0.3%; S-isomer by chiral HPLC NMT 1.5%), 
The methods used for monitoring of des-ethyl brinzolamide and other potential degradation products 
(HPLC) and for monitoring the S-isomer have been validated. The impurity limits in the are justified 
by toxicology studies. 
Batch  analysis  results  of  7  batches  (using  active  substance  supplied  by  AMCIS  and  Finorga  and 
packaged in both EtO and gamma sterilised packaging) comply with the specifications.  
Stability of the product 
Stability  data  for  six  sublots  (originating  from  3  manufactured  batches)  of  finished  product  are 
presented.  The  longest  duration  of  study  for  these  lots  is  2  years  at  room  temperature  (25  °C).  In 
addition to the stability study, data of five batches of finished product manufactured at Alcon, Puerto 
Rico, has been presented. For those batches sterilisation by gamma irradiation is used.  
The stability data show that Azopt is chemically, physically, and microbiologically stable for 2 years 
in  packaging  sterilised  with  ethylene  oxide.  The  efficacy  of  the  antimicrobial  preservative  has  been 
shown  in  this  period.  This  is  reflected  in  the  SPC.  Updated  stability  data  will  be  submitted  when 
available. 
4/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Once  opened,  a  28-day  in-use  period  is  justified  on  microbiological  grounds.  In  addition  an  in-use 
study of chemical parameters was conducted on two batches, which have been stored at the long-term 
storage  condition  (25°C/35%  RH)  for  2  years.  After  28  days,  the  product  samples  were  tested  for 
chemical  as  well  as  physical  parameters.  The  proposed  28  days  in-use  shelf  life  is  justified  and 
acceptable, and is reflected in the SPC.  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Inhibition of CA 
The  potency  and  selectivity  of  brinzolamide  for  inhibition  of  CA-II  has  been  studied  in  vitro. 
Brinzolamide has a Ki for binding to CA-II of 0.13 nM, and an enzyme inhibition IC50 of 3.2 nM. It is 
240 to 400 times more selective for CA-II than CA-I. Brinzolamide and dorzolamide present a similar 
selectivity  for  CA-II,  although  dorzolamide  might  be  more  selective  for  CA-II  than  for  CA-I.  The 
primary  metabolite  of  brinzolamide,  desethyl-brinzolamide,  was  also  tested  in  the  binding  and 
functional activity assays, and was demonstrated to have a similar profile as the parent drug  
In  in  vitro  assays  brinzolamide  selectively  inhibited  CA-II  with  a  potency  similar  to  that  of 
dorzolamide:  Ki  for  brinzolamide  =  0.13nM  compared  to  0,31  nM  for  dorzolamide:  IC  50  for 
brinzolamide  =  3.19  nM  compared  to  3.74  nM  for  dorzolamide.  The  selectivity  of  brinzolamide  for 
CA  was  demonstrated  by  a  lack  of  affinity  in  34  other  types  of  receptor  and  enzyme-based  ligand 
binding assay systems. Desethyl-brinzolamide shows the same pharmacological profile (IC 50  = 2.9 
nM). 
Topical ocular IOP reducing activity  
The  CA  inhibitory  activity  of  brinzolamide  is  supported  by  in vitro  binding  affinity  and  functional 
activity studies with purified human CA enzyme. IOP reducing efficacy has been assessed in vivo in 
rabbits and monkeys and its ability to increase optic nerve head blood flow was studied also in rabbits 
and cats. 
The  IOP  lowering  efficacy  of  brinzolamide  was  tested  in  normal  Dutch-belted  (Db)  rabbits  and  in 
ocular  hypertensive  Cynomolgus  monkeys.  Suspension  formulations  of  both  the  hydrochloride  salt 
and  the  free  base  effectively  lowered  IOP  in  both  species.  Dose  dependent  reductions  of  IOP  were 
demonstrated  in  rabbits,  while  both  0.3  mg  and  0.6 mg  doses  reduced  IOP  by  about  32%  in  the 
monkey. In multi-dose studies with BID treatment up to 9 days in rabbits and 2 days in monkeys, a 
relatively constant IOP reduction was evident. IOP was reduced in monkeys by 29-38% peak and 15-
25% trough . 
Ocular blood flow enhancement 
Optic nerve head (ONH) microvascular blood flow of the cat and total, ONH and regional intraocular 
blood flows in the rabbit were evaluated using coloured microsphere (CM) or laser Doppler flowmetry 
(LDF)  techniques.  ONH  (LDF  method)  blood  flow  was  increased  in  both  rabbits  and  cats  by 
intravenous administration of 5 mg/kg brinzolamide (46 ± 17% increase in cats, p < 0.05). In rabbits, 
brinzolamide at 0.5, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg cumulative intravenous doses produced significant, dose related 
increases in blood flow (CM methods) of iris, ciliary body, choroid as well as the total ocular blood 
flow. After one week of BID topical ocular administration of brinzolamide to Db rabbits blood flow to 
the optic nerve head was significantly increased (11% increase, p < 0.05), as measured by the LDF. 
General and safety pharmacology studies 
Effects of brinzolamide on the Central Nervous System 
Brinzolamide  and  the  desethyl-brinzolamide  with  doses  up  to  30 mg/kg  did  not  have  any  effects  on 
behaviour;  locomotor  activity;  phenylquinone  induced  writhing;  rotarod  performance;  or  barbiturate 
induced sleep time. There was also no effect on sensitivity to electroshock-induced convulsion or on 
yeast-induced pyresis. 
5/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Effects of brinzolamide on the cardiovascular system 
At  a  dose  of  1 mg/kg  neither  brinzolamide  nor  desethyl-brinzolamide  modified  any  cardiovascular 
parameter in dogs. At a dose of  10 mg/kg, brinzolamide, but not the desethyl-brinzolamide, induced 
small  increases  in  cardiac  output  and  contractility.  Neither  compounds  at  a  dose  of  10 mg/kg 
significantly  modified  the  blood  pressure  response  to  epinephrine,  norepinephrine,  acetylcholine, 
histamine and isoproterenol.  
Effects of brinzolamide on the respiratory system 
Pulmonary  mechanics  of  Guinea  pigs  were  not  altered  by  1  or  30 mg/kg  doses  of  brinzolamide  or 
desethyl brinzolamide. 
Blood  gases  in  rats  were  not  altered  by  0.3 mg/kg  or  1.0 mg/kg  doses  of  either  compound,  but  at 
3 mg/kg, minor changes were noted with both compounds. These effects are consistent with inhibition 
of CA, as evidenced by similar changes with the reference standard acetazolamide. 
Effects of brinzolamide on the gastrointestinal system 
In the gastrointestinal propulsion test, no changes were observed with oral doses of 1 or 10 mg/kg of 
brinzolamide  or  1 mg/kg  of  desethyl-brinzolamide.  A  small  reduction  of  charcoal  propulsion  was 
noted with 30 mg/kg brinzolamide and with 10 and 30 mg/kg of desethyl-brinzolamide. This effect is 
consistent  with  local  inhibition  of  CA,  altering  volume  in  the  intestinal  tract,  and  secondarily 
peristaltic  activity.  Neither  compound  at  a  10 mg/ml  concentration  altered  contraction  of  isolated 
Guinea pig ileum induced in vitro by acetylcholine, histamine or barium chloride.  
Effects of brinzolamide on the renal system 
Minor  dose-related  increases  in  urine  pH  and  in  excretion  of  Na+  and  K+  were  observed  in  rats 
following intravenous administration of 1 and 3 mg/kg brinzolamide and desethyl-brinzolamide. 
The  doses  employed  in  these  studies  exceeded  those  achievable  following  topical  ocular 
administration  of  brinzolamide.  If  completely  absorbed,  ocular  administration  of  BID  350 µg  (one 
drop  of  1%)  brinzolamide  per  eye  would  result  in  a  systemic  load  of  only  28 µg/kg/day  in  a  50 kg 
individual. Therefore, an ocular dose of 350 µg brinzolamide per eye per dose is not expected to cause 
significant adverse side effects in man. 
Pharmacodynamic interaction studies 
No studies with regard to pharmacodynamic interactions with beta-blockers have been performed, in 
view  of  the  fact  that  beta-blockers  such  as  timolol  and  metoprolol  are  metabolised  by  different 
isozymes  and  those  beta-blockers  do  not  inhibit  the  metabolism  of  brinzolamide  and  vice  versa. 
Furthermore,  brinzolamide  does  not  strongly  bind  to  plasma  proteins  and  general  pharmacology 
studies  with  brinzolamide  did  not  reveal  any  pharmacodynamic  action  that  indicates  a  potential  for 
exacerbation of a beta-blocker effect. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  brinzolamide  are  specific  and  typical  of  sulfonamide  anhydrase  inhibitors 
which  are  essentially  influenced  by  a  tight  binding  to  CA.  Brinzolamide  is  mainly  distributed  to 
tissues  containing  high  levels  of  CA  and  particularly  in  red  blood  cells  (RBCs).  As  brinzolamide 
binding to RBCs is tight and saturable, low plasma levels and non linear kinetics were observed. The 
pharmacokinetics of brinzolamide were studied in rats, rabbits and monkeys. 
Absorption 
Brinzolamide  is  absorbed  into  the  eye  following  topical  ocular  administration.  Maximum  drug 
concentrations  in  aqueous  humor  and  iris-ciliary  body  (ICB)  of  1.04  ±  0.38 µg/ml  and  1.36  ± 
0.34 µg/mg, respectively, were  achieved 1 hour  following  a single topical ocular administration of a 
1% aqueous suspension to New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits. 
Absorption  into the systemic circulation from the topical ocular route also occurs. Following a single 
30 µl dose of a 4% suspension to NZW rabbits, maximum whole blood concentrations were observed 
between 3 and 24 hours. In the rabbit, plasma brinzolamide concentrations were approximately 4 and 
30 µg/ml 5 minutes after i.v. doses of 5 and 30 mg/kg, respectively.  
6/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Brinzolamide was readily absorbed following oral dosing to rats. Due to the saturable binding to CA 
in erythrocytes, non-linear kinetics and a lack of dose-proportionality were observed in whole blood, 
which  are  characteristic  features  of  this  drug  class.  Maximum  plasma  drug  concentrations  were 
achieved  within  15-30  minutes  and  exhibited  dose  dependence.  Based  on  areas  under  the  plasma 
concentration  versus  time  curves  (AUC)  for  oral  and  intravenous  doses,  oral  bioavailability  ranged 
from about 70% at 20 mg/kg to about 45% at 180 mg/kg. 
Distribution 
Tissue distribution of 14C-brinzolamide was investigated in rats and rabbits.  
In male Fisher rats, after single oral dose the highest levels were observed in tissues containing high 
CA  activities,  i.e.  kidneys,  liver,  stomach,  small  intestine,  spleen,  lungs  and  salivary  glands.  After 
repeated dose administration, the maximum tissue concentrations were 2 fold higher than after simple 
dosing,  showing  a  limited  accumulation  ratio  (about  2).  Autoradiography  studies  showed  a  slight 
penetration  of  brinzolamide  through  the  blood  brain  barrier.  The  compound  was  found  to  cross  the 
placenta and was distributed in foetal tissues and in milk without accumulation (the milk/plasma ratio 
ranging from 0.03 to 0.6). See also section 4.6 of the SPC. 
In the rabbit, brinzolamide was recovered in iris-ciliary body (ICB), choroid, retina, lens and aqueous 
humor  after  topical  ocular  administration.  The  shortest  half-life  (3  hours)  was  observed  in  aqueous 
humor, followed by ICB. Lens and retina exhibited very prolonged exposure in both strains (t1/2 =294 
days and t1/2 = 95.9 days respectively). A systemic redistribution has been demonstrated. 
In vitro plasma protein binding studies showed that brinzolamide binds moderately to plasma proteins 
from  various  species  (unbound  fractions  being  75%,  41%  and  25%  in  rats,  humans  and  monkeys, 
respectively). 
Due to its high affinity for CA-II, brinzolamide distributes extensively into the RBCs and exhibits a 
long half-life in whole blood (mean of approximately 24 weeks). 
Metabolism 
From biotransformation studies of brinzolamide in rats and monkeys models, six different metabolites 
were identified in blood and faeces. Significant concentrations of the main metabolite observed in man 
(N-desethyl-brinzolamide) were also observed in these two species.  
Excretion 
Excretion  of  brinzolamide  was  investigated  in  rats  after  I.V.  injection  of  a  1  mg/kg  dose. 
Approximately equal amounts of radioactivity were excreted in urine (32%) and in the faeces (29%). 
Mass balance of radioactivity showed that 61% of the total radioactivity was recovered in the excreta 
within 48 hours post dosing and the remaining was recovered in the carcass and blood. 
Conclusion 
No adverse findings for lens or retina were demonstrated in preclinical safety studies of brinzolamide 
by  either  topical  ocular  or  oral  administration.  The  systemic  exposure  in  animals  and  humans  is 
summarised in table 1. 
7/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 1: Systemic exposure in animals and humans 
Species 
Study 
Regimen 
(Highest Dose) 
Brinzolamide 
µg/ml Whole Blood 
µM RBC 
3% topical TID, 
2 weeks 
1 mg p.o. BID,  
32 weeks 
1mg p.o. BID, 
32 weeks 
1% topical TID, 
18 months 
4% topical TID, 
1 year 
180 mg/kg p.o., 
2 weeks 
8 mg/kg p.o., 
6 months 
4% topical QID, 
3 months 
4% topical QID, 
6 months 
2.17 ± 0.85  
(males) 
3.95 ± 0.58  
(males) 
4.10 ±0.26 (females) 
Range: 4.25 – 5.11 
(males & females) 
2.70 ± 1.19 
(males & females) 
11.51 ± 1.27  
(males & females) 
10.70 ± 0.71 (males) 
6.89 ±1.01 (females) 
10.63 ± 0.71  
(males & females) 
7.17 ± 0.39  
(males & females) 
5.20 ± 0.45  
(males & females) 
Human 
C-92-34 
C-95-76 
C-96-59 
C-95-47 
Monkey 
N-94-57 
Rat 
N-91-
177 
N-95-77 
Rabbit 
N-91-
176 
N-92-
172 
NM= Not Measured 
Toxicology 
Single-dose toxicity 
N-Desethyl Brinzolamide 
µM RBC 
µg/ml Whole 
Blood 
NM 
12.3 ± 4.8 
22.7 ± 2.4 
1.17 ± 0.29 
7.31 ± 1.82 
27.1 ± 1.3 
22.0 – 46.1 
17.1 ± 7.2 
2.54 ± 1.02 
Range: 3.06 – 
10.6 
1.08 ± 1.11 
18.2 ± 7.5 
17.1 – 88.6 
5.85 ± 7.57 
83.4 ± 9.2 
7.04 ± 1.22 
55.0 ± 9.5 
66.4 ± 6.8 
NM 
42.8 ± 6.3 
66.0 ± 4.4 
44.5 ± 2.4 
32.3 ± 2.8 
0.52 ± 0.08 
3.21 ± 0.46 
NM 
NM 
Single  dose toxicity studies included a  1-day topical  ocular irritation  evaluation in rabbits  and  acute 
oral  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  mice.  The  1-day  topical  ocular  study  employed  a  2%  brinzolamide 
ophthalmic suspension administered as two drops to one eye of each of three rabbits, every 30 minutes 
over five  hours, for a total  of  10  doses.  Over the  period of  administration, animals were exposed  to  
20  drops  (40 µl/drop)  of  a  2%  suspension  (20 µg/µl),  resulting  in  an  overall  exposure  of  800 µl  x 
20 µg/µl, or 16 mg total exposure per day (approximately 5 mg/kg). Ocular comfort and irritation were 
evaluated. Irritation and comfort scores were consistent with those normally observed with ophthalmic 
suspensions, and no significant clinical findings were noted. These are considered screening studies, 
are non-GLP, and extensive systemic evaluations and histopathology were not conducted. 
Administration of single high oral doses of brinzolamide induced lethargy and reduced activity. The 
proposed dosage form, 5 ml or 10 ml bottles (containing a total of 50 or 100 mg of drug, respectively), 
precludes comparable accidental systemic exposure, the maximum possible accidental exposure being 
approximately  5 mg/kg,  assuming  the  complete  contents  were  ingested  by  a  10 kg  child.  No 
significant  effects  are  likely  to  occur  at  this  exposure.    The  total  daily  dose  for  clinical  ophthalmic 
exposure (1 drop, BID, both eyes) is approximately 1.6 mg/day, or about 0.032 mg/kg/day.  
Repeated-dose toxicity 
A series of repeated-dose studies was conducted by the clinical route of administration, topical ocular, 
and by oral administration for increased systemic exposure and toxicological assessment. 
Ocular studies 
Five repeated-dose topical ocular studies were conducted in albino rabbits, ranging in duration from 
one to six months, and a one year study was conducted in pigmented Cynomolgus primates (Table 2). 
8/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Repeated dose topical ocular studies 
Duration/Species 
1 Mo/Rabbit 
1 Mo/Rabbit 
3 Mo/Rabbit 
3 Mo/Rabbit 
6 Mo/Rabbit 
1 Yr/Monkey 
Concentration 
0, 2%, 4% 
0, 1%, 3% 
0, 2%, 4% 
0, 2%, 4% 
0, 2%, 4% 
0, 1%, 2%, 4% 
Regimen 
2 drops, ODa, QIDb 
2 drops, ODa, TIDc 
2 drops, ODa, QIDb 
1 drop, OUd, TIDc 
2 drops, ODa, QIDb 
2 drops, ODa, TIDc 
Number 
020:38520:0392 
093:38520:1293 
076:38520:0792 
051:38520:0396 
031:38520:0594 
095:38520:0795 
aOD = right eye;  bQID = four times a day; cTID = three times a day; dOU = both eyes 
Concentrations  as  high  as  4%  brinzolamide  ophthalmic  suspension  were  administered  up  to  QID  in 
rabbits  and  TID  in  monkeys,  thus  significantly  exceeding  the  proposed  clinical  concentration  and 
dosing frequency of 1%, BID. 
In  the  topical  ocular  studies  the  following  was  carried  out:  slit-lamp  biomicroscopic  ophthalmic 
examinations,  indirect  ophthalmic  examinations,  corneal  pachymetry  as  well  as  body  weight,  serum 
chemistry  and  haematology  evaluations,  organ  weights,  macroscopic  and  microscopic  pathologic 
evaluations.  The  primate  study  also  included  specular  microscopic  evaluation  of  the  corneal 
endothelium. 
Analysis of whole blood samples from the six-months rabbit study obtained at study weeks 1 and 2, 
and  months  one,  three  and  six,  demonstrated  that  a  steady  state  whole  blood  concentration  of 
approximately  5-7 µg/ml  was  reached  at  about  one  week  of  dosing  for  both  the  2%  and  4% 
concentrations, while plasma levels were below the limits of quantitation. 
These  studies  show  that  there  was  no  significant  ocular  toxicity  or  irritation  when  the  drug  was 
administered topically in either the rabbit or the   monkey eye. Irritation scores, as evaluated by slit-
lamp scoring of conjunctivitis, iritis and aqueous flare, were unremarkable compared with controls. In 
addition, there were no significant findings from indirect ophthalmic examinations of ocular tissues of 
the anterior or posterior segments of the fundus. 
Statistically  significant  increases  in  corneal  thickness  were  observed  in  rabbits  following  1,  3  and  
6 months of treatment with brinzolamide eye drops. This information has been included in section 5.3 
of the SPC. Increases in corneal thickness up to approximately 16% were not accompanied by changes 
in  slit-lamp  biomicroscopic  appearance  or  histologic  morphology.  No  significant  change  in  corneal 
thickness was observed in the 1-year topical ocular study in monkeys, and specular microscopy of the 
corneal endothelium revealed no changes in cell density or morphology. 
A  slight  change  in  the  product  formulation  (0.05%  polysorbate  80  replaced  with  0.025%  tyloxapol) 
was made after the completion of the six month rabbit study, and a three-month topical ocular study in 
rabbits was conducted to confirm the safety of the modified formulation. In addition, a change in the 
raw  material  sterilisation  process  (from  gamma  irradiation  to  EtO)  was  made  during  development.  
This change was addressed by re-supplying of dosing materials for the 1-year topical ocular study in 
monkeys  at  approximately  the  six-month  interval.  Thus,  approximately  six months  of  dosing  was 
completed before and after the minor product change. 
Systemic studies 
Repeated-dose systemic toxicity was evaluated by oral administration to rats and mice. An early two-
week  study  by  oral  gavage  administration  in  rats  employed  brinzolamide  at  relatively  high 
concentrations in a low pH aqueous vehicle (in order to provide a dosing solution). Administration of 
this  solution,  containing  high  concentrations  of  the  CA  inhibitor  at  low  pH,  resulted  in  significant 
gastric lesions, including ulcerative and proliferative changes in the forestomach.  Gastric  ulceration 
has been reported with administration of acetazolamide to rats, and may be related to inhibition of CA 
activity and mucus secretion. A change of dosing preparations to a suspension at a more neutral pH 
essentially  eliminated  the  occurrence  of  gastric  lesions.  Lethargy,  dehydrated  appearance  and 
unkemptness,  and  reduced  body  weight  gain  were  apparent,  particularly  at  the  high  dose  of 
180 mg/kg/day.  
9/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A four-week oral study in rats with the dosing suspension demonstrated reduced body weight gain at 
100 mg/kg/day,  with  slight  reductions  in  erythrocyte  count,  haematocrit  and  haemoglobin,  increased 
serum  sodium,  chloride  and  cholesterol  and  reduced  serum  potassium.  The  subsequent  three-month 
study in  rats employed  dose levels of up  to 10 mg/kg/day  without biologically significant effects on 
haematology  and  serum  chemistry  parameters.  Urinary  volume  was  significantly  increased,  while 
urine specific gravity, sodium and potassium were significantly decreased. Similar findings were seen 
in a four-week study in mice. 
Three-month  oral  toxicity  studies  in  rats  with  0,  1,  3  and  8 mg/kg/day  revealed  nephrotoxicity  and 
urinary bladder hyperplasia. Similar urinary tract findings were observed in the three-month oral study 
in mice. 
A  six-month  oral  toxicity  study  in  rats,  with  dose  levels  of  0,  1,  3  and  8 mg/kg/day,  yielded  results 
similar to those observed in the three-month study. There were no significant effects in any of these 
studies aside from urinary-renal findings. Slight but statistically significant increases were observed in 
serum  chloride  concentrations,  particularly  at  the  high  dose.  Serum  sodium  and  potassium  levels 
appeared to be minimally affected. Urine volumes were generally modestly increased with the higher 
doses, with concomitant reductions in specific gravity. Urinary sodium and potassium concentrations 
were significantly reduced. A slight increase in relative kidney weight was also apparent at the highest 
dose, with females affected more than males. These findings are consistent with those observed with 
other  CAIs  such  as  acetazolamide  and  dorzolamide.  Urothelial  hyperplasia  has  been  found  among 
rodents receiving other CAIs. 
Genotoxicity 
Two in vitro and two in vivo mutation assays as well as an in vivo/in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis 
assay  were  conducted  with  brinzolamide  in  order  to  evaluate  the  genotoxicity  potential  of  the  drug 
substance. In a bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay brinzolamide did not induce increases in the 
numbers of revertants per plate for any tester strain in the presence or absence of metabolic activation. 
A  mouse  lymphoma  forward  mutation  assay  was  conducted  at  concentrations  of  up  to  3000 µg/ml 
without  activation  and  up  to  2000 µg/ml  with  metabolic  activation.    Brinzolamide  demonstrated  no 
mutagenic activity without hepatic microsomal enzyme activation. In the presence of activation, dose 
related  increases  in  mutant  frequencies,  approximately  two-  to  four-fold  above  background,  were 
observed.  However,  mutagenicity  was  always  accompanied  by  high  cytotoxicity  (relative  growth 
generally reduced by 85% or more). Hence, cytotoxicity may have contributed to mutagenicity. 
A mouse micronucleus assay employing oral doses of up to 1000 mg/kg revealed no genotoxic effects 
on bone marrow cells harvested 24, 28 and 72 hours after dosing.  
Furthermore  an  in vivo  sister  chromatid  exchange  assay  in  hamsters  was  conducted.  Treatment  with 
brinzolamide did not induce an increase in sister chromatid exchange in bone marrow cells and an in 
vivo/in vitro unscheduled DNA synthesis assay was also negative. CAIs, as a class, are not mutagenic 
and although brinzolamide showed some mutagenicity in one of the five tests performed, the overall 
weight of evidence suggests that brinzolamide is consistent with the class. 
Carcinogenicity 
The  applicant  has  sought  scientific  advice  with  regard  to  the  need  of  the  requirement  for 
carcinogenicity  studies  in  January  1996.  Although  the  CPMP  accepted  at  that  time  not  to  perform 
carcinogenicity studies, carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice have been performed. 
The study in rats, which employed oral gavage administration of 0,1,3 and 8 mg/kg/day brinzolamide, 
demonstrated non-neoplastic lesions consistent with those observed in previous studies in this species. 
One male of the high dose had an epithelial adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder, and one male of 
the high dose had a papilloma of the urinary bladder. There was no other indication of carcinogenic 
effect following two years of oral administration of brinzolamide to rats.  
An  increase  in  urinary  bladder  tumors  (leiomyosarcomas)  was  observed  in  female  mice  given 
brinzolamide  10 mg/kg/day,  orally,  for  24  months.  Dose-related  proliferative  changes  in  the  urinary 
bladder  were  observed  among  female  mice  at  1,  3  and  10  mg/kg/day,  and  among  males  at  3  and  
10 mg/kg/day.  
10/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
The  elevated  bladder  tumor  incidence,  which  was  statistically  significant,  was  primarily  due  to  the 
increased occurrence of a smooth muscle tumor considered histomorphologically unique to mice. This 
information is included in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
In conclusion it can be considered that brinzolamide pose little risk regarding carcinogenic potential. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Studies  investigating  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development,  embryo-foetal  development  and 
prenatal and postnatal development have been performed. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and mice incorporated careful histopathologic evaluation of the 
testes to encompass complete spermatogenic cycles (approximately 10 weeks). 
Fertility and early embryonic development  
In the fertility and general reproduction study in rats, 40 F0 males were treated for 99 days (more than 
one  spermatogenic  cycle)  and  females  were  treated  for  2 weeks  prior  to  the  mating  period. 
Brinzolamide  did  not  affect  male  or  female  fertility  or  general  reproductive  performance.  Slight, 
statistically  significant  differences  in  body  weight  (up  to  approximately  10%  at  the  high  dose)  were 
seen in F0  males  during the treatment  phase and  in  females  during the  treatment phase  and  through 
gestation. F1 foetal weights were lower in a dose-related manner, though no other maternal or foetal 
parameters  were  affected.  F1  pup  weights  were  comparable  between  control  and  treated  groups  at 
lactation  Day 1 but F1 pups  weights were slightly to  moderately decreased (approximately  13%),  in 
the high dose group at lactation Days 14 and 21. There were no effects on F1 fertility and reproductive 
performance, or on F2 offspring. The no-effect level for fertility and reproduction was considered to 
be 18 mg/kg/day. 
Embryo-foetal development 
Doses  of  0,  2,  6  and  18  mg/kg/day, were  given  orally  by  gavage,  to  40  pregnant  dams  on  gestation 
days 6 through 17, with 20 employed for caesarean section and 20 delivering F1 pups. Results were 
generally similar to those obtained in the fertility study, with a slightly lower body weight for F0 dams 
and  a  lower  mean  foetal  weight  for  the  high  dose  group  compared  with  controls.  Increases  in  the 
incidence of unossified sternebrae or hyoid and reduced ossification of the skull were observed at the 
high dose only. This was hinted at in the fertility study, where only an apparent increase in unossified 
sternebrae  was  noted.  Day 1  mean  weights  of  delivered  pups  were  comparable  between  the  control 
and treated groups. 
A  developmental  toxicity  study  in  rabbits  employed  oral  gavage  administration  of  brinzolamide  at 
dose levels of 0, 1, 3 and 6 mg/kg/day on gestation Days 6 through 18. Substantial maternal toxicity 
was evidenced at the high dose by one fatality, absence of faeces and emaciation, and two instances of 
abortion.  No  malformations  were  observed  and  ossification  appeared  to  be  unaffected.    Thus, 
brinzolamide  appeared  to  have  no  adverse  effects  on  foetal  development  even  in  the  presence  of 
extreme maternal toxicity. 
Classic  CAIs  are  recognised  as  possessing  developmental  toxicity  potential.  Acetazolamide, 
dichlorphenamide,  ethoxzolamide  and  benzolamide,  at  high  dose  levels,  have  been  associated  with 
forelimb skeletal malformations in rats and mice. It has been suggested that the characteristic forelimb 
reduction  deformities  observed  in  rats,  mice  and  rabbits  receiving  acetazolamide  does  not  occur  in 
monkeys  due  to  lack  of  embryonic  CA  activity  during  the  sensitive  period  of  causal  development. 
Further investigations suggested a reduction in embryonic intracellular pH to be the mechanism. In the 
present  studies  with  brinzolamide,  only  slight  reductions  in  ossification  have  been  observed  in  rats, 
with no limb malformations apparent. 
Prenatal and postnatal development  
A peri- and postnatal study in rats employed oral gavage administration of 0, 1, 5 and 15 mg/kg/day 
brinzolamide from gestation Day 16 through lactation Day 20. Sporadic instances of differences in F1 
pup  viability  at  or  before  Day 4  and  at  the  low  and  mid  dose  levels  may  have  been  due  to 
cannibalisation.  
11/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Pup  weights  during  lactation  were  comparable  with  controls  for  all  treatment  groups,  until  Day 21, 
when the mean pup weight for the high dose group was slightly lower (8%) than controls. There was 
no  indication  of  impairment  of  late  foetal  or  pup  morphological,  behavioural  or  functional 
development. 
Other toxicity studies: 
Immunostimulation study 
An  immunostimulation  study  in  the  guinea  pig,  consisting  of  an  induction  phase  by  intradermal 
injection and a challenge phase with patch applications showed no response. It can be concluded that 
brinzolamide is a non-sensitiser substance. 
Cell proliferation study in rats 
Oral administration of 20, 60, 180 mg/kg/day to rats did not induce cell proliferation in the liver. 
Phototoxicity study 
In  a  preliminary  phototoxicity  study  New  Zealand  White  rabbits  were  exposed  to  Azopt  by  dermal 
application, followed by exposure to 5 joules/cm2 UVA for 37 minutes. No phototoxic response was 
observed at 24, 48 and 72 hours post-exposure.  
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment:  
Exposure assessment estimates for the different environmental compartments have shown that, based 
on  the  methods  and  calculations  presented  in  the  guideline  for  environmental  risk  assessment,  the 
concentration  of  brinzolamide  is  below  the  established  threshold  values  (0.001  µg/l  for  water  and  
10  ppb  for  soil)  for  concern.  There  are  no  factors  regarding  the  toxicity  of  brinzolamide  that  would 
require consideration of stricter criteria, and further investigations are not considered necessary. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects  
Introduction 
The most common type of glaucoma encountered in Europe is primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) 
which is strongly related to elevated IOP (i.e., IOP > 21 mm Hg). 
Topical CAIs constitute a new class, in which the single representative is 2% dorzolamide (Trusopt), 
eye drops  marketed since  1996  in Europe and  indicated  as second-line therapy (after  a topical beta-
blocker, e.g. timolol) with a TID regimen in monotherapy and BID regimen as adjunctive therapy. 
Both pilocarpine, the most commonly used miotic, and dorzolamide have similar additive hypotensive 
effects when combined with a beta-blocker.  
A total of 12 clinical trials are included in the efficacy submission of 1% brinzolamide eye drops with 
a  total  of  1390  patients  or  healthy  volunteers  involved.  The  studies  were  conducted  in  the  USA, 
Europe, Japan and Australia. 
Studies were performed in accordance with GCP requirements (CPMP/ICH/135/95 and the declaration 
of Helsinki).  
12/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
In Table 3 an overview of the studies performed is presented. 
Table 3: Tabular summary of pharmacodynamic studies 
Study 
number 
C-97-61 
Study Design  Treatment 
duration 
1 day 
Double-blind, 
cross-over 
C-92-34 
Open-label 
15 days 
C-92-38 
Single-blind, 
cross-over 
4 days 
C-92-25 
C-94-49 
C-94-71 
C-94-05 
C-93-86 
15 days 
28 days 
28 days 
14 days 
14 days 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active- 
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Patient 
Population 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Primary open-
angle glaucoma 
or ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle glaucoma 
or ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle glaucoma 
or ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle glaucoma 
or ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle glaucoma 
or ocular 
hypertension 
Dosing Regimen 
Brinzolamide 1%:  
2 drops study eye 
Placebo: 
2 drops fellow eye 
Brinzolamide 3%: 
1 drop TID 
Brinzolamide 3%:  
1 drop 
BETOPTIC S:  
1 drop 
Brinzolamide 0.3, 1, 
2, 3%:  1 drop BID 
Placebo:  1 drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
1 drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
1 drop TID 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
2 drops QID + NLO 
Placebo: 
2 drops QID + NLO 
Brinzolamide 2%:  1 
drop BID (GDS) 
Placebo:  1 drop BID 
(GDS) 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
1 drop BID 
Placebo:  1 drop BID  
(dosing adjunctive to 
Timoptic 0.5%) 
No. of 
Sites 
1 (US)  16 total 
No. Patients 
(Intent-to-Treat) 
16 brinzolamide 
15 placebo 
1 (US)  15 brinzolamide 
1 (US)  20 brinzolamide 
20 
(US) 
157 total 
126 brinzolamide 
31 placebo 
6 (US)  105 total 
51 brinzolamide 
BID 
54 brinzolamide 
TID 
1 (US)  28 total 
23 brinzolamide 
5 placebo 
2 (US)  55 total 
5 (US) 
41 brinzolamide 
14 placebo 
30 total 
23 brinzolamide 
7 placebo 
Abbreviations and drug names used include the following:  BID (twice-daily), TID (three times daily), QID (four 
times daily), PO (oral administration), NLO (nasal lacrimal occlusion), US (United States), EU (Europe), AUS 
(Australia), Brinzolamide 1% (brinzolamide 1% eye drops), Betoptic S (betaxolol suspension 0.25% eye drops), 
Timoptic 0.5% (timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution), and Trusopt (dorzolamide 2% ophthalmic solution 
In  preclinical  studies,  brinzolamide  was  demonstrated  to  be  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CA-II. 
The mechanism of action of CA inhibitors on IOP is described in literature as an inhibition of CA in 
the  ciliary  processes  of  the  eye  decreasing  aqueous  humour  secretion,  presumably  by  slowing  the 
formation  of  bicarbonate  ions  with  subsequent  reduction  in  sodium  and  fluid  transport.  No  clinical 
pharmacodynamic  studies  to  further  determine  the  mechanism  of  action  on  IOP  in  humans  were 
performed. 
Recent  studies  suggested  that  glaucoma  might  have  a  vascular  component  on  which  drugs  may  act 
directly contributing to improve ocular blood flow and visual contrast sensitivity. Thus, in study C-97-
61  brinzolamide  (1%)  was  tested  against  placebo  in  healthy  volunteers  in  a  specific  double-blind, 
cross-over, single dose study to evaluate the effects of brinzolamide on ocular blood flow and visual 
function. Results showed that topical brinzolamide had no acute effects on retrobulbar and retinal and 
superficial optic nerve head blood flows as well as on contrast sensitivity. 
CA-II  and  IV  isoenzymes  are  present  in  corneal  endothelial  cells  and  play  an  important  role  in  the 
maintenance  of  corneal  transparency.  Due  to  the  important  local  concentrations  given  by  eye  drops, 
topical  CA  inhibitors  may  modify  electrolytes  and  water  transport  within  the  cornea,  leading  to  a 
corneal oedema and to an increase in corneal thickness.  
13/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
In  study  C-  95-47  (see  also  under  "Pharmacokinetics")  corneal  pachymetry  and  endothelial  cell 
density were assessed in most patients at baseline and at months 6, 12 and 18. Although there was no 
placebo group in that study, the results showed that brinzolamide (BID or TID) had no obvious effect 
on corneal function or endothelial cellularity.  
No corneal oedema was observed in the phase III studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Table 4 presents an overview of the studies performed. 
Table 4: Tabular summary of pharmacokinetic studies 
Study 
number 
C-92-34  Open-label 
Study 
Design 
Treatment 
Duration 
15 days 
C-95-47  Double-blind, 
18 months 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Patient 
Population 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Primary open-
angle glaucoma 
or ocular 
hypertension 
C-95-76  Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
C-96-59  Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
32 weeks + 
12 week 
wash-out 
Healthy 
volunteers 
60 weeks + 
12 week 
washout 
Renally 
impaired 
volunteers 
C-96-74  Double-blind, 
1 week 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Healthy 
Japanese 
volunteers 
Dosing Regimen 
Brinzolamide 3%: 
1 drop TID 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
1 drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
1 drop TID 
Timoptic 0.5%: 
1 drop BID 
Brinzolamide: 
1 mg PO BID 
Placebo:  PO BID 
Brinzolamide: 
1 mg PO BID 
Placebo:  PO BID 
Brinzolamide 1%: 
1 drop BID study eye 
Brinzolamide 2%: 
1 drop BID study eye 
Placebo: 
1 drop BID fellow eye 
No. of 
Sites 
1 (US) 
No. Patients 
(Intent-to-Treat) 
15 brinzolamide 
3 (US) 
1 (US) 
6 (US) 
1 
(JPN) 
56 total (kinetic 
evaluation) 
29 brinzolamide 
BID 
27 brinzolamide 
TID 
24 total 
20 brinzolamide 
4 placebo 
38 total 
28 brinzolamide 
10 placebo 
16 total 
8 brinzolamide 1% 
8 brinzolamide 2% 
16 placebo 
Abbreviations: see Table 3. 
Topical ocular administration 
None of the three topical studies (C-92-34, C-96-74, and C-95-47) was designed as a pharmacokinetic 
study.  Some  blood  samples  were  obtained  during  safety  or  efficacy  studies  that  only  show  that 
brinzolamide  is  absorbed  to  some  extent  after  topical  ocular  administration.  The  absorption  of 
brinzolamide after topical ocular administration cannot be estimated from these studies. 
Main pharmacokinetic properties 
The  data  on  pharmacokinetic  parameters  are  limited.  The  bioavailability  and  volume  of  distribution 
have  not  been  determined  as  this  would  require  intravenous  administration  of  brinzolamide  and  this 
could introduce a risk for patients or healthy volunteers. 
Following topical ocular administration, brinzolamide is absorbed into the systemic circulation. Due to 
its high affinity for CA-II, brinzolamide distributes extensively into the RBCs and exhibits a long half-
life in whole blood (mean of approximately 24 weeks). The major isozyme involved in the metabolism 
of brinzolamide is CYP3A4, but at least 4 other isozymes are involved including CYP2A6, CYP2B6, 
CYP2C8  and  CYP2C9.  In  humans,  the  metabolite  N-desethyl  brinzolamide  is  formed,  which  also 
binds  to  CA  and  accumulates  in  RBCs.  This  metabolite  binds  mainly  to  CA-I  in  the  presence  of 
brinzolamide.  In plasma, both brinzolamide and N-desethyl brinzolamide concentrations are low and 
generally  below  assay  quantitation  limits  (<7.5  ng/ml).  Binding  to  plasma  proteins  is  not  extensive 
(about 60%). Brinzolamide is eliminated primarily by renal excretion (approximately 60%).  
About 20% of the dose has been accounted for in urine as metabolite. Brinzolamide and N-desethyl-
brinzolamide  are  the  predominant  components  in  the  urine  along  with  trace  levels  of  the  N-
desmethoxypropyl and O-desmethyl metabolites. 
14/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Oral administration 
Healthy volunteers 
In study C-95-76 (1 mg) parent drug steady-state was achieved at approximately 12 weeks. N-desethyl 
metabolite steady-state was achieved within 20 to 28 weeks. The other metabolites were not detected 
in whole blood. The levels of the parent drug and even more of N -desethyl metabolite were higher in 
females than in males, but this was not considered to be clinically relevant. 
Renally impaired volunteers (CrCl ≥ 30ml/min) 
In study C-96-59 (1 mg) steady-state levels were obtained later than that in normal healthy volunteers. 
At steady-state, the parent drug levels were about twice that measured in healthy normal volunteers. 
The same phenomenon occurred for the N -desethyl metabolite, but was more pronounced. However, 
safety  studies  did  not  show  an  increase  in  the  frequency  of  systemic  adverse  events  due  to 
accumulation and consequently a higher degree of CA inhibition. 
No studies have been performed in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl<30ml/min) as CAIs 
can  produce  acidosis  and  this  population  is  susceptible  to  this  adverse  reaction.  CA  inhibitors  are 
contra-indicated in patients with severe renal impairment and patients with hyperchloraemic acidosis 
(see section 4.3 of the SPC). 
Hepatic impairment  
Brinzolamide has not been studied in hepatic impaired subjects because brinzolamide does not have a 
narrow therapeutic index and renal excretion is the main route of elimination, and therefore studies in 
such a population were not considered necessary. However, brinzolamide should be used with caution, 
as reflected in sections 4.2 of the SPC. 
Elderly patients (>65 years of age)  
A representative  number  of patients  from  66 to  75  years (n=670)  and from  76  to  85  years   (n=222) 
have  been  included  in  the  clinical  studies.  No  dosage  alteration  in  elderly  patients  is  necessary,  as 
reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Interactions 
No  specific  drug  interaction  studies  were  performed,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  beta-blockers  such  as 
timolol and metoprolol are metabolised by different isozymes and those beta-blockers do not inhibit 
the metabolism of brinzolamide and vice versa. Furthermore, brinzolamide does not strongly bind to 
plasma proteins. The lack of interaction studies is justified on the basis of available clinical data with 
regard to the co-administration with timolol, which is currently by far the most used beta-blocker in 
glaucoma. Based on theoretical grounds no differences are expected with the behaviour of other beta-
blockers.  
No specific interaction studies were performed. This was considered acceptable as efficacy is related 
to local rather than systemic concentrations. 
It is recognised that brinzolamide and its main metabolite (N-desethyl-brinzolamide) bind to CA and 
are sequestered into RCBs. Based on this fact, brinzolamide is unlikely to be involved in interactions 
with other medicinal products. The reasons that indicate that brinzolamide is unlikely to interact with 
other drugs are: 
1 
2 
Brinzolamide  has  multiple  elimination  pathways  and  metabolism  by  multiple  isozymes  of 
cytochrome  P-450.  CYP-3A4  is  a  major  contributor  to  metabolic  elimination  but  4  other 
isozymes are also available for clearance of the drug. Hence, if CYP-3A4 was inhibited, renal 
clearance and liver metabolism by the remaining isozymes could eliminate the drug. 
Changes in brinzolamide availability due to inhibition of CYP-3A4 will not significantly alter 
concentrations of drugs in plasma or RBCs because at steady state brinzolamide binding to CA 
is  saturated  and  unbound  brinzolamide  is  rapidly  cleared  by  renal  excretion  and  liver 
metabolism. 
15/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
3 
4 
Brinzolamide is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 isozyme even at concentrations that are 
more than 100-fold higher than those found in plasma at steady state in humans. 
Brinzolamide is approximately 60% plasma protein bound.  
Clinical efficacy 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical 
principles. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Dose-response and dosing regimen studies 
To establish the appropriate concentration of brinzolamide one study was performed (Study C-92-25; 
see Table 3). This  was a multicentre, randomised,  double blind,  placebo controlled study in patients 
with  open  angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertensive  patients  for  whom  ocular  hypotensive  therapy  is 
indicated. Patients were administered Azopt 0.3% (n=29), 1% (n=34), 2% (n=30) and 3% (n=33). All 
treatment  dosed  one  drop/eye  BID,  topically  during  15  days.  Placebo  was  used  in  the  same  dose-
regimen (n=31). 
The efficacy endpoint was the mean per cent change from diurnally adjusted baseline IOP. The dose 
response  curve  represented by a graph of least  square  means of  percent reduction in IOP,  reached a 
plateau  at  1%,  indicating  that  the  optimal  effective  brinzolamide  concentration  is  1%.  This 
concentration showed similar tolerance as lower concentrations. 
Two studies were designed with the purpose of finding the proper dosing regimen (study C-94-49 and 
study C-94-71, see table 3). 
Study C-94-49 
This  was  a  double-blind,  randomised,  active-controlled  study,  in  patients  with  primary  open  angle 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Patients were administered brinzolamide 1% ophthalmic suspension, 
one  drop/eye  BID  (n=51)  or  TID  (n=54),  topically.  Patients  in  the  BID  group  also  received  one 
drop/eye vehicle to preserve the study blinding. Duration of treatment was 4 weeks. 
The efficacy endpoint was IOP changes in mmHg from diurnal baselines. Clinically and statistically 
significant  IOP  decrease  was  noted  when  BID  or  TID  regimens  were  administered.  BID  and  TID 
treatments were equivalent. 
Study C-94-71 
This was a single centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled randomised, parallel group study in patients 
with  primary  open  angle  glaucoma  (with  or  without  pseudoexfoliation  or  pigment  dispersion 
component)  or  ocular  hypertension.  Patients  were  administered  brinzolamide  1%  ophthalmic 
suspension,  two  drops  in  each  eye  QID  (n=23)  employing  nasal  lacrimal  occlusion  after  each  dose 
during four weeks. The placebo consisted of brinzolamide vehicle, two drops in each eye QID (n=5), 
during four weeks.  
The  efficacy  endpoint  was  IOP  changes  from  diurnal  baseline.  Brinzolamide  1%  ophthalmic 
suspension  dosed  QID  followed  by  two  minutes  of  nasal  lacrimal  occlusion  resulted  in  clinically 
significant IOP reduction from baseline. Compared to the previous results, in this reduced sample size 
the IOP lowering efficacy of brinzolamide 1% ophthalmic suspension was not significantly enhanced 
by increasing the dosing frequency to QID. In addition, brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension was well 
tolerated when administered QID. 
Main studies  
Table 5 shows an overview of the studies performed. 
16/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Table 5: Efficacy and comfort studies 
Study 
number 
C-95-46 
C-95-48 
C-95-39 
C-95-38 
C-95-47 
C-92-38 
C-96-29 
C-96-40 
Treatment 
Duration 
3 months 
3 months 
13 weeks 
3 months 
18 months 
Study Design 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Single-blind, 
crossover 
4 days 
1 week 
1 week 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Dosing Regimen 
Patient 
Population 
EFFICACY STUDIES 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Trusopt:  1 drop TID 
Placebo:  1 drop TID 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Trusopt:  1 drop TID 
Timoptic 0.5%:  1 
drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop BID 
Trusopt:  1 drop BID 
(dosing adjunctive to 
Timoptic 0.5%) 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Placebo:  1 drop TID 
(dosing adjunctive to 
Timoptic 0.5%) 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop BID 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Timoptic 0.5%:  1 
drop BID 
COMFORT STUDIES 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Brinzolamide 3%:  1 
drop 
BETOPTIC S:  1 drop 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Trusopt:  1 drop TID 
No. of 
Sites 
No. Patients 
(Intent-to-Treat) 
29 
(US) 
46 
21 
(US) 
25 
(EU) 
32 
28 
(EU) 
4 
(AUS) 
23 
(US) 
18 
(US) 
1 (US) 
3 (US) 
463 total 
134 brinzolamide 
BID 
133 brinzolamide 
BID 
131 Trusopt 
65 placebo 
572 total 
165 brinzolamide 
BID 
169 brinzolamide 
TID 
165 Trusopt 
73 Timoptic 0.5% 
238 total 
116 brinzolamide 
122 Trusopt 
132 total 
65 brinzolamide 
67 placebo 
378 total 
150 brinzolamide 
BID 
153 brinzolamide 
TID 
75 Timoptic 0.5% 
20 total 
20 brinzolamide 
20 BETOPTIC S 
109 total 
55 brinzolamide 
54 Trusopt 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Trusopt:  1 drop TID 
3 (US) 
104 total 
52 brinzolamide 
52 Trusopt 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
Abbreviations: see Table 3. 
IOP, measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry was the efficacy parameter in all clinical efficacy 
studies and the chosen primary endpoint was the change of IOP from the diurnal baseline. However, 
results  are  also  expressed  as  the  mean  decrease  of  IOP  and  percentage  of  responders,  who  were 
defined  as  patients  reaching  an  IOP  ≤  21  mmHg  or  with  a  decrease  of  at  least  5  mmHg.  To  accept 
equivalence  between  treatments,  the  minimum  relevant  difference  to  be  detected  was  fixed  at  
1.5 mmHg.  
The endpoint was evaluated at three months in all clinical trials except in one trial where the double 
blind period was extended up to 18 months. 
Assessment of visual loss and optic nerve damage has been performed only from the safety point of 
view,  and  studies  were  neither  long  nor  large  enough  to  detect  differences  in  these  relevant 
parameters. However, the demonstration of efficacy based only on decreases in IOP is an acceptable 
approach. 
17/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The demographic characteristics of patients receiving brinzolamide 1%, Trusopt and Timoptic 0.5% in 
the  controlled  trials  were  similar  regarding  age  distribution,  sex,  ethnic  origin  and  iris  colour.  The 
number  of  patients  ≥  65  years  of  age  included  in  the  studies  with  brinzolamide  was  683,  of  which  
579 received brinzolamide monotherapy and 104 brinzolamide added to timolol. 
Treatment in monotherapy 
Versus beta-blocker 
Two comparative monotherapy studies versus timolol (with BID and TID-dosing over 3 months and 
18  months)  have  been  presented  (study  C-95-47  and  C-95-48).  The  difference  in  IOP  reduction 
between timolol and brinzolamide was up to 2 mm Hg at trough, favouring timolol (study C-95-47). 
At  peak,  pooled  data  demonstrated  that  timolol  was  also  more  effective  than  brinzolamide  with  a 
statistically  significant  difference  in  mean  IOP  changes  between  timolol  (BID)  and  brinzolamide 
(TID).  The  magnitude  of  the  decrease  across  studies  ranged  from  -2.7  to  -5.7  mmHg  with 
brinzolamide BID, from -2.8 to -5.6 mmHg with brinzolamide TID and from -5.2 to -6.0 mmHg with 
timolol 0.5% BID. 
Versus CAIs 
The  IOP-lowering  effect  of  brinzolamide  1%  (BID  or  TID)  was  comparable  to  that  of  dorzolamide  
2% (TID) when  given as first-line  monotherapy in two studies (C-95-46 and C-95-48). However, in 
the EU, topical dorzolamide is considered to be a second-line drug in the treatment of glaucoma. The 
magnitude of the decrease across studies ranged from -3.4 to -5.7 mmHg with brinzolamide BID, from 
-4.1 to -5.6 mmHg with brinzolamide TID and from -4.3 to -4.9 mmHg with dorzolamide TID. 
The  long-term  effect  of  brinzolamide  on  the  diurnal  rhythm  of  IOP  has  not  been  extensively 
investigated in long-term studies (study C-95-47).  
Statistical Analysis 
Both  intent-to-treat  and  per-protocol  analyses  were  presented  in  the  clinical  study  reports  of  the 
superiority  trials  versus  placebo  and  versus  timolol.  For  studies  C-95-38,  C-95-48,  C-95-46  and  C-
95-47 results of the ITT analyses and per protocol analyses are similar. 
There  were  four  confirmatory  studies  where  statistical  tests  relative  to  timolol  or  placebo  were 
performed.  The  applicant  has  extracted  the  intent-to-treat  and  the  per-protocol  results  for  the 
superiority results for these studies. The results have been pooled across visits and by visit.  
Treatment in adjunctive therapy 
In addition to timolol 
Two studies  as an add-on to timolol have been performed, the first versus placebo (Study C-95-38), 
the second versus dorzolamide (study C-95-39). The length of the two adjunctive studies is relatively 
short (3 months)  
Versus placebo 
TID dosing with brinzolamide 1% ophthalmic suspension when used adjunctively with timolol 0.5% 
ophthalmic  solution  produced  clinically  and  statistically  significant  IOP  reductions  from  baseline. 
Mean  IOP  changes  from  baseline  of  brinzolamide  as  add-on  to  timolol  were  significantly  greater 
(p=0.0329) compared to placebo + timolol. The magnitude of the decrease with brinzolamide ranged 
from -3.2 to -4.1 mmHg and the decrease with placebo ranged from -1.0 mmHg to -2.6 mmHg 
Versus dorzolamide 
BID  dosing  with  brinzolamide  1%  ophthalmic  suspension  when  used  adjunctively  to  timolol  0.5% 
ophthalmic  solution  produced  clinically  and  statistically  significant  IOP  reductions  from  baseline  at 
each  treatment  visit.  The  results  were  equivalent  for  brinzolamide  1%  ophthalmic  suspension  and 
dorzolamide 2% ophthalmic solution. None of the upper limits of the 95% confidence interval of the 
differences was above the a priori established value of 1.5 mmHg and most of them were inferior to 1 
mmHg. The magnitude of the decrease ranged from –3.6 to –5.3 mmHg with brinzolamide BID and 
from –3.6 to –5.1 mmHg with dorzolamide BID. 
18/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
In addition to other agents 
The efficacy of brinzolamide 1% in adjunction with other drugs used in ocular hypertension treatment 
(prostaglandins, adrenergic agonists, and miotics) was not studied. The only recommended association 
is with beta-blockers. 
Long term effects 
There was no tachyphylaxis during the study period (18 months). A duration of 3 months is generally 
sufficient to show adequate efficacy of a topical ocular hypotensive medication, since it allows IOP to 
stabilise.  In  adjunctive  therapy,  long  term  data  (up  to  6  months)  are  available  on  75  patients. 
Additionally, up to 9 months data are available on 38 of these 75 patients. 
Rebound effect 
A  possible  rebound  increase  in  IOP  after  withdrawal  of  brinzolamide  eye  drops  has  not  been 
investigated. This is reflected in section 4.4. of the SPC. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The  experience  with  brinzolamide  in  the  treatment  of  pseudoexfoliative  glaucoma  or  pigmentary 
glaucoma is limited and no specific clinical data were obtained in patients wearing contact lenses. This 
has been reflected in section 4.4. of the SPC. 
Dose regimen 
With  regards  to  the  possible  superiority  of  the  TID  regimen  versus  the  proposed  BID  regimen,  the 
following information is available.  
One clinical pharmacology study (C-94-49) compared BID and TID dosing regimens measuring IOP 
at  5  different  time  points  during  the  day,  without  finding  differences  between  both  regimens 
(magnitude of differences at all time points less than 1 mmHg).  
Both  regimens  were  tested  in  the  three  pivotal  clinical  trials.  In  them,  brinzolamide  BID  showed 
superiority  versus  placebo  and  similar  efficacy  as  dorzolamide.  In  one  of  these  trials  (C-95-46), 
equivalence  between BID and TID could not be  demonstrated and the BID regiment appeared to be 
inferior to TID. Confidence intervals of the difference were above the prespecified delta of 1.5 mmHg 
at different time points. Regarding the percentage of responders there is about a 10% less responders 
to BID brinzolamide than with the other two regimens.  
The  other  two  studies  failed  to  show  differences  between  both  regimens,  one  of  them  showing  also 
equivalence to dorzolamide (C-95-48) and the third one inferiority versus timolol (C-95-47). In both 
trials IOP was measured at different time points including the worst possible case for the BID regimen 
which  is  12  hours  post  dose  coinciding  with  the  peak  of  the  circadian  rhythm  of  the  IOP.  If 
equivalence is tested, the upper limit of the confidence interval of the difference is below 1.1 mmHg at 
all time points during the 3 months trial and below 1.4 mmHg at all time points during the 18 months 
trial. 
The Applicant states that the BID regimen is the preferred regimen. The superior efficacy of the TID 
regimen, if it exists, would be about 1 mmHg, which has no clinical significance. The long-term trial 
does  not  find  differences  in  IOP  between  both  regimens  and  only  one  of  the  two  3-month  trials 
suggests a difference of the above-mentioned magnitude. 
According to the Applicant it is obvious that most patients controlled with brinzolamide do not need 
more  than  BID  and  also  facilitation  of  compliance  and  commodity  should  be  taken  into  account  as 
well as minimising the exposure to benzalkonium. Moreover, it is mandatory that patients with high 
IOP are closely monitored allowing to detect easily an insufficient control. 
However,  it  could  be  argued  that  the  TID  regimen  should  be  the  preferred  one.  The  arguments  in 
favour of a TID regimen are the following: with regard to the compliance, the statement made by the 
applicant  is  weak  as  compliance  was  never  assessed  in  the  file.  Although  the  IOP  differences  are 
inferior to 1 mmHg and thus, without clinical significance the overall number of controlled patients is 
always higher with the TID regimen rather than the BID regimen.  
19/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
This is of clinical significance and demonstrated in the file. Moreover in the 18-month study IOP was 
not measured at the late afternoon point, and thus due to the inter-individual variation in nycthemeral 
IOP, there is no confirmation of the nycthemeral control beyond a 3-month duration. 
Therefore the following wording has been included in section 4.2 of the SPC: 
“When used as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy, the usual dose is one drop of Azopt eye drops in 
the conjunctival sac of the affected eye(s) twice daily. Some patients may have a better response with 
one drop three times a day.” 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
A  total  of  2530  patients  or  healthy  volunteers  were  included  in  the  clinical  trials  (excluding  the  on-
going study C-96-60). Of them, 1227 patients received brinzolamide eye drops 1% alone. As primary 
therapy,  542  were  treated  at  the  recommended  daily  dosage  of  brinzolamide  1%  BID  and  616  and  
23  patients  were  treated  with  brinzolamide  1%  TID  or  QID  respectively.  As  adjunctive  therapy  to 
timolol  0.5%  139  and  65  patients  received  brinzolamide  1%  BID  or  TID  respectively.  In  addition,  
48  volunteers  received  brinzolamide  orally  and  176  patients  received  concentrations  of  topical 
brinzolamide other than 1%. 
Two  studies  in  specific  populations  were  added  as  required  by  the  CPMP  for  safety  evaluation 
(Scientific Advice; 1996): 
• 
• 
Study  C-97-46,  a  clinical  safety  study  to  demonstrate  the  absence  of  acute  effects  of  a  single 
drop administration of brinzolamide on pulmonary function. 
Study  C-96-60,  a  clinical  safety  study  to  demonstrate  the  reversibility  of  timolol-  induced 
airway obstruction and the safety advantage of brinzolamide as first-line therapy. 
Furthermore, a multicentre, open label, adjunctive-therapy study (C-97-27) was performed to study the 
long-term safety of BID-dosed brinzolamide 1.0% ophthalmic suspension. 
An overview of the studies performed is presented in Table 6. 
Table 6: Safety studies 
Study 
number 
C-97-46 
C-96-60 
(ongoing) 
Study Design  Treatment 
Duration 
Patient 
Population 
Dosing Regimen 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
crossover 
Single 
administrati
on 
Volunteers 
with asthma 
or COPD 
3 months 
Double-blind, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop / eye 
Timoptic 0.5%:  1 
drop / eye 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop TID 
Timoptic 0.5%:  1 
drop BID 
No. 
of 
Sites 
1 
(EU) 
22 
(EU) 
No. Patients 
(Intent-to-Treat) 
30 total 
30 brinzolamide 
30 Timoptic 0.5% 
148 expected 
74 brinzolamide 
74 Timoptic 0.5% 
C-97-27 
Open-label 
6 months 
Brinzolamide 1%:  1 
drop BID 
(dosing adjunctive to 
Timoptic 0.5%) 
17 
15 
(EU) 
2 
(AUS) 
75 total 
75 brinzolamide 
Abbreviations: see Table 3. 
601  Patients  were  exposed  to  brinzolamide  1%  BID,  TID  or  QID  up  to  3  months,  and  another  
303  were  exposed  for  18  months.  181  Patients  received  brinzolamide  1%  +  Timoptic  0.5%  for  
3 months. 
No  clinically  relevant  differences  between  the  patient  demographics  of  the  subgroups  for  each 
treatment group with or without adverse events were observed 
20/25 
© EMEA 2004 
Primary open-
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
in patients ≥ 
60 years of 
age 
Primary open 
angle 
glaucoma or 
ocular 
hypertension 
 
 
Adverse events and serious adverse events 
One  hundred  and  fifty-seven  (157)  of  the  1227  patients  (12.8%)  experienced  227  ocular  events  and 
106 (8.6%) patients experienced 140 non-ocular events related with brinzolamide 1%. 
The reported adverse events were generally mild to moderate, usually resolved with or without therapy 
and generally did not requested discontinuation in the study. 
The most frequent ocular adverse events related or unrelated to brinzolamide 1%, taking into account 
the  overall  frequency  and  incidence  of  adverse  events  for  all  treatment  groups,  were  blurred  vision 
(temporary  blurring  upon  instillation  lasting  from  a  few  seconds  to  a  few  minutes)  5.8%,  ocular 
discomfort  (transient  burning  or  stinging  upon  instillation)  3.1%,  ocular  hyperaemia  (2.5%),  foreign 
body sensation (2.4%), ocular pain (1.8%), blepharitis (1.5%), dry eye (1.5%), cataract (1.5%), optic 
nerve  disorder  (1.5%),  ocular  discharge  (1.3%),  ocular  pruritus  (1.3%),  and  keratitis  (1.1%).  Other 
ocular events at an incidence rate between 0.9 and 0.6 percent were conjunctivitis, tearing, abnormal 
vision, subconjunctival haemorrhage, and lid margin crusting. 
Non-ocular  events  at  an  incidence  higher  than  1%  included  taste  perversion  (bitter  or  unusual  taste) 
5.5%,  headache  (2.2%),  infection  (2.1%),  surgical/medical  procedures  (2%),  cold  syndrome  (1.9%), 
pain  (1.9%),  hypertension  (1.1%),  diarrhoea  (1%),  rhinitis  (1.5%),  sinusitis  (1.4%),  pharyngitis 
(1.5%), bronchitis (1.4%), and dermatitis (1.1%). 
The  profile  of  ocular  adverse  events  of  brinzolamide  in  association  to  timolol  0.5  %  was  similar  to 
brinzolamide  alone.  The  most  frequent  events  was  blurred  vision  (4.9%)  taste  perversion  (4.4%) 
ocular discomfort (1.5%) and foreign body sensation (1%). However some specific adverse events of 
beta-blockers, as asthma appeared with an incidence of 1%. 
No  serious  related  adverse events were  reported for  brinzolamide  1%,  but 20  patients (6 in  regimen 
TID  and  14  in  BID)  were  discontinued  from  the  study  due  to  related  ocular  events  (blurred  vision, 
ocular  pain,  keratitis  and  ocular  discomfort  were  the  most  frequent  reasons)  and  14  patients  (7  in 
regimen  TID  and  7  in  BID)  were  discontinued  due  to  related  non-ocular  events  (taste  perversion, 
dizziness,  headache,  diarrhoea,  asthenia,  depersonalisation,  nervousness,  dermatitis,  pruritus  were 
some of the reasons).  
In 4 patients the reason of discontinuation was taste perversion, which appeared in 3 of the 4 cases in 
TID regimen. The 2 cases of dizziness that conducted to discontinuation of treatment appeared in TID 
regimen.  
Five patients treated with the association of brinzolamide and timolol 0.5% discontinued the study due 
to 4 related non-ocular events (2 cases of asthma, cough, pharyngitis). 
Adverse events of brinzolamide 1% (BID, TID) in comparisons of 2% and 3%. 
Four  dose-ranging  studies  were  conducted    (C-95-25,  C-95-46,  C-95-47  and  C-95-48);  two  of  them 
were conducted including placebo (C-95-46 and C92-25).  
Blurred  vision  (1.7%,  5.0  %,  5.3  %  and  7.4  %  with  placebo,  brinzolamide  1%,  2%  and  3% 
respectively) ocular  discomfort  (2.6%, 2.5  %,  2.6  %  and  2.9  % with placebo,  brinzolamide  1%,  2% 
and 3%, respectively) and taste perversion (5.5% with brinzolamide 1% but 13.2 % and 38.2 % with 
brinzolamide 2% and 3% respectively) were the most frequent events related to brinzolamide. Other 
events related were hyperaemia, dry eye, pain, discharge, ocular pruritus, keratitis, lid margin crusting 
and ocular precipitate (active substances residue; only with brinzolamide 3%). 
In  general  it  seems  that  there  is  correlation  between  adverse  events  and  dose,  especially  for  blurred 
vision and taste perversion. The greatest percentage of patients experiencing treatment related adverse 
events was described with brinzolamide 3% and the least with brinzolamide 0.3%, with no clinically 
significant difference between brinzolamide 1% and 2%. 
Adverse events in comparisons to the same therapeutic class (dorzolamide) 
Four  studies  (C-95-46,  C-95-48,  C-96-29  and  C-96-40)  were  conducted  with  dorzolamide  as  active 
control treatment. 
21/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
In study C-95-46, ocular discomfort (3.0 % and 3.0%) and blurred vision (3.0% and 2.3%) were the 
most frequent ocular events related to brinzolamide 1% BID and TID respectively. Ocular discomfort 
was the most frequent ocular event (10.7%) related to dorzolamide 2%. 
The percentage of patients with ocular discomfort was higher (10.7%) in the dorzolamide group than 
in any of the brinzolamide groups (3.0%), but the percentage of other ocular events was slightly higher 
in the brinzolamide group. As a consequence, the global percentage of adverse events was similar in 
both groups. The ocular discomfort was not related to a higher number of withdrawals since only one 
patient withdrew in the dorzolamide group (accident injury) whereas 4 patients receiving brinzolamide 
1% BID were discontinued from the study due to 9 adverse events (most of which ocular events) and  
2 patients from placebo group (corneal abrasion and pneumonia). One patient receiving brinzolamide 
1%  TID  was  discontinued  due  to  dermatitis  and  urticaria  and  one  due  to  treatment  unrelated 
myocardial  infarction.  In  contrast  the  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  ocular  discomfort  in  the 
placebo group was very low (1.5%). 
In  study  C-95-48  the  adverse  events  profile  with  brinzolamide  and  dorzolamide  was  similar  to  that 
observed  in  the  previous  study:  blurred  vision  (3%  and  0.6%)  and  ocular  discomfort    (1.8%  and 
16.4%) were the most frequent adverse events with brinzolamide 1% BID and dorzolamide 2% TID, 
respectively. 
In studies C-96-29 and C-96-40, brinzolamide 1% ophthalmic suspension TID resulted in statistically 
lower  ocular  discomfort  score  (0.2  and  0.4  units)  than  dorzolamide  2%  ophthalmic  solution  TID  
(1.3  and  1.7).  There  was  a  greater  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  no  discomfort  with 
brinzolamide (71.2 and 81.3% respectively) compared to dorzolamide (19.6 and 17.0% respectively), 
that is 28.8 and 18.7.7% respectively of the patients in the group of brinzolamide and 80.4-83.0 % in 
the  group  of  Trusopt  presented  discomfort.  Because  of  the  design  of  the  studies,  the  percentage 
patients showing some extent of discomfort is greater than the incidence of ocular discomfort reported 
spontaneously in the remaining studies.  
Other  ocular  events  were  observed  in  the  brinzolamide  and  in  the  Trusopt  group  with  a  similar 
percentage as in phase III studies. 
No  statistically  or  clinically  significant  worsening  in  visual  acuity  was  observed  between  treatment 
groups. 
Adverse events in comparisons to the reference therapeutic class (beta-blockers) 
Two studies (C-95-47 and C-95-48) were conducted with timolol 0.5% as active control treatment.  
The incidence of ocular adverse events in the brinzolamide 1% group and timolol group seems similar, 
however, a higher percentage of patients with blurred vision (5.0% and 2.8 % in brinzolamide 1% and 
Timoptic 0.5 % respectively) was observed in the brinzolamide group. 
The only non-ocular adverse events described in timolol group with an incidence higher than 1 % was 
dyspnea  (2%).  Headache  was  described  in  the  timolol  group  with  an  incidence  of  0.8%  (1.3%  with 
brinzolamide 1% ), asthenia with 0.4%  (0.1% in brinzolamide group), dry mouth with 0.4%  (0.7% in 
brinzolamide group), bronchitis or asthma 1.2% compared to 0.2 % asthma in brinzolamide 0.1%. 
Endothelial  cell  density  (cells/mm3)  and  corneal  thickness  (pachymetry)  was  measured  in  the  study  
C-95-47 at baseline, month 6, month 12 and month 18. No effects have been observed. 
Laboratory findings 
Blood  chemistry,  haematology  and  urinalysis  values  were  measured  at  baseline  and  post  dosing  in 
nine  studies  on  study  weeks  1  to  32  for  1668  patients.  No  relevant  changes  were  detected  from 
baseline or between active drugs. 
Haematological effects 
No  bone  marrow  effect  was  observed  in  the  clinical  trials  with  1%  brinzolamide,  but  anaemia  was 
reported in one patient. 
22/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Renal and metabolic effects 
Acid-base and electrolyte disturbances were observed with  brinzolamide. For brinzolamide 1% used 
as  monotherapy  4  ADRs  were  reported  (1  case  of  kidney  calculus,  1  case  of  gout,  1  case  of 
hypokalemia, and 1 case of hyperchloremia). 1 case of dysuria has been reported for brinzolamide 1% 
used as adjunctive therapy 
Respiratory tolerance of topical brinzolamide 
This was assessed in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Study C-97-46). 
In contrast to timolol 0.5%, brinzolamide 1% TID-dosed did not reduce forced expiratory volume in 
one second (FEV1) in volunteers with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
Cardiovascular evaluation  
No clinically relevant differences were shown in the mean pulse, systolic or diastolic blood pressure 
between patients receiving ocular brinzolamide, dorzolamide or timolol. 
Safety in special populations 
A separate analysis of ADRs in risk groups has been presented. 
Diabetics 
Elevated  blood  glucose  and  glycosuria  have  been  reported  in  diabetics  and  prediabetics  receiving 
systemic CA inhibitors. These drugs may interfere with the hypoglycaemic response to insulin or oral 
antidiabetic agents. 
In clinical studies, 174 diabetic patients received brinzolamide. None of the adverse events associated 
with discontinuation from the studies were associated with a worsening of the diabetic condition.  No 
serious events related to brinzolamide were reported in diabetics and no specific adverse events were 
documented in such patients receiving brinzolamide. 
Asthmatics 
CA inhibitors may increase carbon dioxide tension in tissues and may decrease carbon dioxide tension 
in  alveoli.  Respiratory  and  metabolic  acidosis  caused  by  CA  inhibitors  may  increase  oxygenation 
during  hypoxia  by  increasing  ventilation,  cerebral  blood  flow  and/or  dissociation  of  oxygen  from 
oxyhemoglobin. 
Respiratory  difficulties  may  be  increased  by  systemic  CA  inhibitors  in  patients  with  chronic 
obstructive lung disease. Forty-nine asthmatics were administered brinzolamide in clinical studies. No 
serious events related to brinzolamide were reported in asthmatics and no specific adverse events were 
documented in such patients receiving brinzolamide. 
Patients on antihypertensive medications 
Systemic  CA  inhibitors  may  augment  the  effects  of  other  diuretics.  Diuretics  may  cause  increased 
excretion  of  potassium  and  patients  receiving  diuretics  plus  a  CAIs  may  experience  severe 
hypokaliemia.  CA  inhibitors  can  compete  with  chlorthalidone  and  alter  the  response  to  it.  Four 
hundred  and  thirty  nine  patients  receiving  antihypertensive  medications  participated  in  brinzolamide 
studies in monotherapy (386) or added to timolol (53). No serious events related to brinzolamide were 
reported in patients on antihypertensive medications and no specific adverse events were documented 
in such population while receiving brinzolamide. 
Patients with hepatic insufficiency 
Patients with hepatic cirrhosis and hypokaliemia  and/or elevations in  blood  ammonia concentrations 
caused by systemic CA inhibitor may develop hepatic coma or precoma, as well as disorientation. 
No patients with hepatic insufficiency participated in clinical studies with brinzolamide. This has been 
reflected in section 4.2. of the SPC 
23/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Elderly patients 
The number of patients ≥ 65 years of age included in the studies with brinzolamide was 683, of which 
579 received brinzolamide monotherapy and 104 added to timolol. The adverse events associated with 
brinzolamide 1% are similar to those in patients other ages. No serious events related to brinzolamide 
were reported for elderly patients. For CA inhibitors there is a general recommendation to warn that 
the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness and/or physical coordination could be impaired. 
This warning has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Females on hormone replacement therapy 
One  hundred  sixty  female  patients  on  hormone  replacement  therapy  participated  in  clinical  studies 
with  brinzolamide  (150  in  monotherapy  and  10  added  to  timolol).  No  serious  events  or 
discontinuations related to brinzolamide were reported for females on hormone replacement therapy.  
5. 
Overall conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
In summary, the documentation of substances, materials, methods of production as well as the quality 
controls is sufficient to ensure a sterile product of consistent quality, suitable for ophthalmic use when 
used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects 
relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled 
in a satisfactory way. 
A number of follow-up measures have been agreed (see section II.3) 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Brinzolamide has shown to be toxico-pharmacologically comparable to the other drug of its class.  
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  the  properties  of 
brinzolamide, both general and ocular, are consistent with inhibition of CA, with affinity for the CA 
isoform II.  
The pharmacokinetics of brinzolamide are specific  and typical of sulphonamide anhydrase inhibitors 
which are essentially influenced by a tight binding to CA. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  no  major  findings.  Based  on  the  results  of  the 
carcinogenicity studies it can be considered that brinzolamide poses little risk regarding carcinogenic 
potential and that the benefit-risk ratio is not affected. 
Relevant information on the toxicity profile has been included in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
The  clinical  development  program  of  brinzolamide  1%  BID  ophthalmic  suspension  is  considered 
adequate.  Brinzolamide  1%  BID  or  TID  is  considered  to  be  comparable  to  dorzolamide  2%  TID  in 
monotherapy,  the  TID  administration  of  brinzolamide  being  closer  to  TID  administration  of 
dorzolamide.  
Assessment of visual loss and optic nerve damage has been performed only from the safety point of 
view,  and  studies  were  not  long  or  large  enough  to  detect  differences  in  these  relevant  parameters. 
However, the demonstration of efficacy based only on decreases in IOP is an acceptable approach. 
Evidence  of  efficacy is not sufficient to recommend the  use  of  brinzolamide  1% in the treatment  of 
glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  as  first  line  monotherapy.  Brinzolamide  1%  BID  used  in 
monotherapy showed a consistently lower efficacy than timolol 0.5% BID in both clinical trials where 
this  comparison  was  performed.  The  percentage  of  responders  was  greater  with  timolol  and  that 
difference was more evident in the first measure in the morning, the peak measure of IOP. 
Brinzolamide  1%  BID  or  TID  is  considered  to  be  comparable  to  dorzolamide  2%  TID  in 
monotherapy.  Therefore  the  use  as  monotherapy  in  patients  unresponsive  to  beta-blockers  or  in 
patients in patients in whom beta-blockers are contraindicated is acceptable.  
24/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
Although the clinical trials did not focus on showing efficacy in those patients, they were included in 
clinical  trials  and  there  is  no  reason  to  suspect  that  underlying  diseases  such  as  asthma  or  other 
contraindications  to  beta-blockers  could  be  associated  with  a  different  response  of  this  drug  in 
glaucoma  patients.  In  addition,  brinzolamide  (although  used  TID  in  this  trial)  is  superior  to  placebo 
when used in addition to timolol. 
There are no clinical trials carried out in patients unresponsive to beta blockers. Therefore, there is no 
knowledge  on  the  expected  rate  of  response  in  such  population.  However,  in  line  with  the  accepted 
indication for other CA inhibitors the wording of the indication is acceptable. 
The doses and dose regimens have been properly defined. The amount of long-term data is limited, but 
is  considered  to  be  sufficient.  No  studies  have  been  performed  in  patients  with  renal  and  hepatic 
impairment,  and  this  has  been  reflected  in  the  SPC.  No  dosage  adjustments  are  necessary  in  the 
elderly. The lack of studies with regard to pharmacodynamic interactions with beta-blockers has been 
justified. 
Safety 
No  major safety concerns were identified in the pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The reported 
adverse  events  were  generally  mild  to  moderate,  usually  resolved  with  or  without  therapy,  and 
generally did not request the discontinuation of trial therapy. 
The profile of ocular adverse events of brinzolamide 1% was similar to that of dorzolamide 2%. The 
percentage  of  patients  with  ocular  discomfort  was  higher  in  the  dorzolamide  group  than  in  the 
brinzolamide group, but the percentage of other ocular events was lightly superior in the brinzolamide 
group. As a consequence, the overall incidence of adverse events was similar in both groups. 
The profiles of ocular adverse events of brinzolamide 1% BID and TID were similar. 
Timolol  produced  less  ocular  adverse  events  than  brinzolamide  1%,  but  some  non-ocular  adverse 
events  related  to  specific  effects  of  beta-blockers  occurred.  However,  adverse  event  related  to 
digestive  tract  (dry  mouth,  nausea,  dyspepsia,  diarrhoea),  nervous  system  (paresthesia,  depression, 
dizziness,  dream  abnormality)  and  special  senses  (taste  perversion)  that  were  described  in  the 
brinzolamide group, were not described in the timolol group. 
The profile of ocular adverse events of brinzolamide in association to timolol 0.5 % was similar to that 
of brinzolamide alone. However, some specific adverse events of beta-blockers occurred. 
No serious drug related adverse events were reported for brinzolamide 1%. The amount of long-term 
safety data, although limited, is acceptable. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Azopt  was  favourable  in  the  indication  to  decrease  elevated  intraocular 
pressure in ocular hypertension and open-angle glaucoma as monotherapy in patients unresponsive to 
beta-blockers  or  in  patients  in  whom  beta-blockers  are  contra-indicated,  or  as  adjunctive  therapy  to 
beta-blockers. 
25/25 
© EMEA 2004 
 
 
