Summary of risk management plan for BARACLUDE 
(entecavir) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  BARACLUDE.  The  RMP  details
important risks of BARACLUDE, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about BARACLUDE's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
BARACLUDE's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to health care professionals and patients on how BARACLUDE should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for BARACLUDE should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
BARACLUDE's RMP. 
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
BARACLUDE  is  authorised  for  CHB  infection  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It  contains 
entecavir as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of entecavir’s benefits can be found in BARACLUDE’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines  Agency 
website, 
webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/baraclude.
medicine’s 
under 
the 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of BARACLUDE, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about BARACLUDE's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and health care professionals
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks
Together, these measures constitute routine risk-minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of BARACLUDE is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘Missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of BARACLUDE are risks that need special risk-management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of BARACLUDE. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-
term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
ETV resistance 
Exacerbation of hepatitis (ALT increase/hepatic flare) 
Emergence of resistant HIV in HIV/HBV coinfected patients 
Important potential risks 
Mitochondrial toxicity (including lactic acidosis) 
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy 
Use in patients with severe acute exacerbation of CHB 
II.B Summary of important risks
Important identified risk 
ETV Resistance 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Scientific literature, CCDS 
LVD-refractory patients: Mutations in the HBV polymerase that encode 
LVDr substitutions may lead to the subsequent emergence of secondary 
substitutions, including those associated with ETVr. Patients with LVDr 
HBV  are  at  higher  risk  of  developing  subsequent  ETVr  HBV  than 
patients not previously treated with LVD. Virologic response should be 
closely  monitored  in  the  LVD-refractory  population,  and  appropriate 
resistance testing should be performed. In patients with decompensated 
liver  disease,  virologic  breakthrough  may  be  associated  with  serious 
clinical  complications  of  the  underlying  liver  disease.  Therefore,  in 
patients  with  both  decompensated  liver  disease  and  LVDr  HBV, 
combination  use  of  ETV  plus  a  second  antiviral  agent  (that  does  not 
share cross-resistance with either LVD or ETV) should be considered in 
preference to ETV monotherapy. 
Important identified risk 
Risk-minimisation measures 
Reduction of HBV DNA to < 300 copies/mL correlated strongly with 
maintenance of the HBV DNA response during continued treatment 
and with an absence of resistance. 
Routine  risk-minimisation  measures:    SmPC  warnings  in  Section  4.4 
and recommended dosing in Section 4.2. 
Exacerbation of Hepatitis (ALT Increase/Hepatic Flare) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk-minimisation measures 
Scientific literature. 
Underlying  cirrhosis  (hepatic  decompensation);  HBV  pre-S  deletion 
precore  mutations  before  treatment  (with  LVD);  higher  pretreatment 
ALT  (HBeAg-positive);  LVD-resistant  virus  with  rebound  viraemia; 
HCV/HDV coinfection during treatment with interferon and ribavirin; 
expansion of HBV-specific memory cells (CD8 T-cells); robust immune 
response;  decreased  CD4  T-cell  count  in  HIV  coinfected  patients; 
concurrent  chemotherapy;  and  emergence  of  precore  mutants  in  late 
HBV infection. 
Routine risk-minimisation measures: SmPC warnings in Sections 4.4 
and 4.8. 
Emergence of Resistant HIV in HIV/HBV Coinfected Patients 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
In vitro assessment of ETV against HIV, Clinical Overview, scientific 
literature 
HIV/HBV coinfected patients not receiving effective concomitant 
HAART. 
Risk-minimisation measures 
Routine risk-minimisation measures: SmPC warnings in Section 4.4. 
Important potential risk 
Mitochondrial Toxicity (Including Lactic Acidosis) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Scientific literature 
Adult “mitochondrial disease” syndromes occur most likely in genetically 
susceptible individuals, brought out by the stress of NRTI therapy; such 
patients may also have a positive family history for similar events. Neither 
the  prevalence  of  relevant  genetic  changes  nor  their  potential  impact  is 
completely understood. 
increased 
In patients with chronic liver disease, LA may result from both increased 
lactate production and decreased hepatic lactate clearance in patients with 
cirrhosis; 
tissue 
lactate  production  may 
hypoperfusion  or  compromised  cellular  oxygen  metabolism,  while 
decreased  lactate  clearance  may  result  from  a  lack  of  functioning 
hepatocytes. Individuals with advanced hepatic cirrhosis are expected to 
maintain a fragile acid-base balance and to experience impaired ability for 
lactate disposal because of a relative lack of functioning hepatocytes. In 
addition,  most  of  the  identified  patients  also  had  significant  relevant 
comorbidities.  It  is  therefore  considered  likely  that  the  severity  of  the 
result 
from 
underlying hepatic disease, as well as the relevant comorbidities, may have 
had a causal role and/or could provide an alternative explanation for the 
development of LA in the majority of cases. 
relatively  high 
The 
frequency  of  underlying  cirrhosis,  hepatic 
decompensation, or acute liver failure observed in the patients described 
in the postmarketing case reports of LA or increased lactic acid received 
to  date  suggests  that  patients  with  these  conditions  may  be  at  specific 
increased risk for lactate-associated AEs. Many cases were also noted to 
be confounded by relevant comorbidities (eg, diabetes) and/or concomitant 
medications (eg, metformin). 
Routine risk-minimisation measures: SmPC warnings in Section 4.4 
Risk-minimisation measures 
Missing information 
Use in Pregnancy 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk-minimisation measures 
There  are  no  adequate  and well-controlled  studies  in pregnant women. 
ETV  should  be  used  during  pregnancy  only  if  the  potential  benefit 
justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Routine risk-minimisation measures: SmPC description in Section 4.6. 
Use in Patients with Severe Acute Exacerbation of CHB 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk-minimisation measures 
In a retrospective analysis, a higher 1-year mortality rate with ETV was 
identified when compared with LVD in a specific subset of patients in 
whom  therapy  was  initiated  during  a  spontaneous  severe  acute 
exacerbation  of  CHB  infection.  Although  this  analysis  suggested  that 
ETV  was  associated  with  an  increased  mortality  at  1  year,  the  excess 
mortality was accounted for by deaths in the first 30 days of treatment. In 
contrast,  3  other  retrospective  analyses  of  ETV-  versus  LVD-treated 
patients  with  an  acute  spontaneous  exacerbation  of  CHB  revealed  a 
similar response with both treatments and no increases in mortality during 
treatment at specific time points of 4 weeks and 6 months. 
Routine risk-minimisation measures: SmPC warnings in Section 4.4. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
BARACLUDE. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no studies required for BARACLUDE.
