SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
The  hepatitis  B  virus  (HBV)  disease  represents  a  major  public  health  concern,  with  more  than  350 
million people infected and about 1 million deaths annually. The prevalence of HBV varies widely by 
geographic  area,  ranging  from  0.1-2%  in  low  prevalence  areas  such  as  Western  Europe  (primarily 
acquired  through  horizontal  transmission  during  adulthood)  to  8%  and  more  in  the  high  prevalence 
areas of South-East Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa (usually acquired through vertical transmission).  
HBV is a small DNA virus belonging to the hepadnaviridae family. The infectious enveloped particle 
has an outer protein coat (hepatitis B surface antigen or HBsAg) and an inner protein core (hepatitis B 
core  antigen  or  HBcAg).  In  infected  hepatocytes,  HBcAg  is  produced  in  excess  and  during  export 
from the hepatocytes is cleaved to release a hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg). HBV has a high rate of 
spontaneous  mutation.  A  mutation  in  the  pre-core  region  of  the  gene  coding  for  the  nucleocapside 
stops the synthesis of the HBeAg. Such HBeAg negative or pre-core mutants patients, which account 
for 7 to 30 % of infections worldwide is particularly common in Southern Europe and Asia. 
HBV infection is a complex disease entity that may either resolve spontaneously or manifest itself in 
variety  of  ways.  Following  acute  hepatitis  B  infection,  approximately  5%  of  adults  and  20-90%  of 
children,  depending  on  the  age  at  infection,  fail  to  produce  adequate  immune  response  and  become 
chronic  carrier  of  the  virus.  Chronic  carriers  of  HBV  are  at  increased  risk  of  developing  long-term 
complications, i.e. cirrhosis, hepatic failure and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Among patients with 
chronic  active  hepatitis  B,  some  40%  will  develop  cirrhosis  over  their  lifetime  at  a  rate  of 
approximately 2% per year. Among patients with compensated cirrhosis, 10% per year progress to a 
decompensated state, with a 1-year survival rate of 60%, compared with over 90% for compensated 
cirrhosis.  
The  ultimate  goal  of  treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis  B  is  to  suppress  HBV  replication  and  to  induce 
remission in liver disease before cirrhosis and HCC develop. There are however remaining scientific 
uncertainties  (e.g.  the  level  of  viraemia  associated  with  sustained  virological  response,  with  HBeAg 
seroconversion,  when  to  stop  safely  the  treatment  either  when  viral  eradication  or  when  sustained 
suppression of viral replication necessary to prevent progression of disease). 
There  are  currently  three  approved  therapies  for  chronic  HBV  infection  in  Europe:  alfa-interferon, 
lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil, the prodrug of adefovir. Recombinant alfa-interferon acts primarily 
as  an  immunomodulator,  whereas  the  nucleoside/nucleotide  analogues  directly  inhibit  viral 
replication.  Current  therapy  of  chronic  hepatitis  B  has  limited  long-term  efficacy  and  potential 
drawbacks.  Therefore,  there  remains  a  great  medical  need  for  new  therapeutic  options  for  naïve 
patients  as  well  as  for  patients  with  lamivudine-resistant  HBV  and  for  the  more  difficult  to  treat 
population (e.g. HBeAg negative patients, HIV co-infected patients and patients with decompensated 
hepatitis). 
The  present  application  for  marketing  authorisation  of  Baraclude  is  made  under  Article  8.3  (i)  and 
concerns a new active substance, entecavir for which a complete dossier has been submitted. Entecavir 
(ETV) is a nucleoside analogue of guanosine with selective activity against HBV.  
The approved indication at the recommended dose of 0.5 mg once daily in nucleoside naïve patients or 
1  mg  once  daily  in  lamivudine-refractory  patients  is:  “for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis B  virus 
(HBV)  infection  in  adults  with  compensated  liver  disease  and  evidence  of  active  viral  replication, 
persistently elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active 
inflammation  and/or  fibrosis.  This  indication  is  based  on  clinical  trial  data  in  patients  with  HBeAg 
positive and HBeAg negative HBV infection, nucleoside naive patients and patients with lamivudine-
refractory hepatitis B”. 
2.  Quality aspects 
1/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Baraclude is available in two pharmaceutical forms i.e. film-coated tablet and oral solution. 
The film-coated tablets contain 0.5 mg and 1 mg of entecavir anhydrous, as active substance. The two 
strengths can be differentiated by their colour and debossings. 
The other ingredients include: 
-  Tablet  core:  crospovidone, 
microcrystalline and povidone. 
lactose  monohydrate,  magnesium 
stearate,  cellulose, 
-  Tablet film-coating: titanium dioxide (E171), hypromellose, macrogol 400, polysorbate 80(for 
the 0.5 mg strength only) and iron oxide red (for the 1 mg strength only). 
The  tablets  are  packed  in  HPDE  bottle  with  child  resistant  polypropylene  closure  and  in  Alu/Alu 
perforated unit dose blisters. 
The oral solution contains 0.05 mg/ml of entecavir, as active substance. 
The other ingredients include maltitol liquid (E965), sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid anhydrous, 
methylhydroxybenzoate  (E218),  propylhydroxybenzoate  (E216),  orange  flavour,  sodium  hydroxide, 
hydrochloric acid and purified water.  
The oral solution is presented in a multidose HDPE bottle with child-resistant polypropylene closures. 
A  polypropylene  measuring  spoon  with  millilitre  marks  from  1  millilitre  up  to  10  millilitres  is 
provided. 
Active Substance  
Entecavir is a nucleoside analogue of guanosine.  
It is a crystalline, non-hygroscopic, white to off-white powder and it is isolated as the monohydrate. 
Its  aqueous  solubility  is  pH  dependent  (higher  at  pH  values  above  8.7  or  below  3.4).  Entecavir 
contains  three  chiral  centres,  but  it  is  synthesised  solely  as  the  1S,  4S,  3R  enantiomer.  A  wet 
granulation is used in the finished product manufacturing process, which minimises the impact of the 
physical characteristics (particle size, shape and surface area) of the active on the content uniformity 
of the tablets. Entecavir crystalline form has shown not to be affected during manufacture and storage. 
• 
Manufacture 
Entecavir  is  prepared  from  two  commercially available starting materials. Satisfactory specifications 
and  associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  the  starting  materials,  intermediates,  reagents  and 
solvents. 
Process  impurities  originating  from  each  starting  materials/reagents  and  solvents  and  during  the 
synthesis have been adequately discussed. 
A  number  of  synthetic  processes  (A,  B  and  C)  have  been  used  to  produce  batches  used  in  non-
clinical/clinical  studies.  Compared  to  the  commercial  process  F,  process  A  and  B  used  different 
reagents,  solvents  and  intermediates,  while  process  C  used  the  same  sequence  and  the  same 
intermediates but with some minor difference regarding the reagents and the working procedures. 
No significant differences between lots obtained by the different processes have been noted, especially 
in term of impurity profile. 
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, colour, identity (IR, HPLC), optical 
rotation, assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC) and water content. 
The HPLC method used to control the impurities allows detection of the diastereomeric impurities that 
may  be  present  in  the  active.  Concerning  the  enantiomeric  purity  of  entecavir  as  well  as  residual 
solvents, heavy metals and sulphated ash, it has been found acceptable not to test them based on the 
justifications and data provided. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies.  
2/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  and  uniformity  with  the  proposed 
specification. 
• 
Stability 
Under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH  -  commercial  packaging)  and  long-term  conditions 
(25°C/60%  RH  -  commercial  packaging),  respectively  6-month  data  and  up  to  18-month  data  have 
been provided for three batches manufactured according to the synthesis route at the commercial site. 
The parameters tested included appearance, assay, impurities and water content. 
A photostability study has been performed and it showed that entecavir is not light sensitive. 
The proposed retest period of 24 months is supported by the presented data when entecavir is stored 
under the described conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
Film-coated tablets 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
This  pharmaceutical  form  is  of  standard  formulation  and  has  been  developed  to  release  the  active 
rapidly prior to absorption. 
The excipients have been selected based on their compatibility with entecavir. They are all of PhEur 
quality  except  the  film-coating,  which  is  satisfactorily  controlled  according  to  a  different  standard. 
Lactose was chosen as an excipient as it is a common diluent for wet granulation. Regarding the TSE 
risk,  the  lactose  monohydrate  from  milk  of  bovine  origin  has  been  considered  in  compliance  with 
current TSE requirements. The magnesium stearate is from vegetable origin. 
Satisfactory specifications have been defined to control the primary packaging materials. 
A capsule dosage form was used in Phase I and II clinical studies and later the 0.5 mg and 1 mg film-
coated  tablets  were  developed  as  the  proposed  commercial  formulations.  Bioequivalence  has  been 
demonstrated between the tablets and capsules (see clinical section). 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process consists of the standard following operations: wet granulation of the active 
with the excipients, milling, blending, compression, film-coating and packaging. 
Satisfactory in-process controls have been defined. 
Validation  data  provided  for  two  commercial-scale  batches  of  the  0.5  mg  strength  and  for  one 
commercial-scale  batch  of  the  1  mg  strength  confirm  robustness  and  reproducibility  of  the 
manufacturing process. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identity 
(HPLC), assay (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), dissolution, uniformity of dosage units (PhEur) 
and microbial limits (PhEur). 
Batch analysis data provided for both strengths comply with the specifications and indicate consistent 
and reproducible manufacture. 
3/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  batches  of  0.5  mg  and  1  mg  film-coated  tablets  packed  in 
aluminium blister and for three batches of 0.1 mg and 1 mg tablets in HDPE bottle bracketing the 0.5 
mg strength. 
18-month data are available under long-term conditions (25°C/40% RH - commercial packaging) and 
under intermediate conditions (30°C/70% RH - commercial packaging). Under accelerated conditions 
(40°C/75% RH - commercial packaging) 6-month data have been provided.  
The parameters tested included appearance, assay, hardness, dissolution, water content and microbial 
testing. The observed changes were small, and not likely to have a significant effect on efficacy and 
safety of the product when used according to the directions in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Photostability studies have shown that the finished product is non-light sensitive.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
Oral solution 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  oral  solution  was  developed  to  provide  an  alternate  oral  dosage  form  for  patients  who  cannot 
swallow tablets and for patients who need dose reduction. 
All  the  excipients  have  been  chosen  based  on  their  compatibility  with  the  active  substance.  A 
hydrogenated  sweetener  i.e.  maltitol  has  been  selected  due  to  chemical  incompatibility  of  entecavir 
with sucrose hydrolysis products. The amount incorporated in the formulation has been shown to be 
sufficient to mask the potential bitter taste of entecavir in solution. 
The  pH  6  selected  for  the  formulation,  and  maintained  by  a  citrate  buffer,  is  satisfactory  for  the 
antimicrobial  efficacy  of  the  preservatives  (methylhydroxybenzoate  and  propylhydroxybenzoate), 
which  has  been  demonstrated  according  to  PhEur.  Moreover,  this  pH  ensures  a  good  chemical  and 
physical  stability  of  entecavir  when  the  oral  solution  is  stored  under  the  recommended  storage 
conditions. 
All the excipients are of PhEur quality, except the orange flavour, which is controlled according to an 
acceptable  standard  and  complies  with  EU  requirements.  With  regards  to  the  TSE  risk,  the  oral 
solution does not contain any component is of ruminant origin. 
Satisfactory  specifications  have  been  provided  for  the  HDPE  bottle  and  the  child-resistant 
polypropylene closure.  
The  compatibility  of  the  solution  with  the  primary  packaging  has  been  satisfactorily  demonstrated. 
The  dosing  spoon  is  CE  marked  and  has  been  approved  for  its  intended  use.  The  accuracy  and 
reproducibility of the dose delivered by this medical device has been satisfactorily demonstrated. The 
viscosity  of  the  solution  has  been  tested  on  commercial  scale  batches  and  it  has  been  found 
sufficiently low to allow dose measurement. 
The formulation used in clinical studies is identical to that proposed for marketing with exception of 
the solution fill volume. Bioequivalence between the oral solution and the film-coated tablets has been 
demonstrated (see clinical section). 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process consists of the standard following operations: dissolution of the active and 
of the excipients in purified water, pH adjustment, filtration and filling in the primary packaging. 
A satisfactory maximum holding time has been defined for the bulk solution based on chemical and 
microbiological testing. Satisfactory in-process controls have been defined. 
Validation data provided confirm robustness and reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
4/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identity 
(HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  preservative  content  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  pH  and 
microbial limit (PhEur). 
Batch analysis data have been provided for 5 production-scale batches comply with the specifications 
and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  batches  manufactured  using  the  commercial  process  at  the 
commercial  manufacturing  site.  HDPE  being  a  semi-permeable  container,  low-humidity  ICH 
conditions  are  used  for  stability  testing.  Under  long-term  conditions:  (25°C/40%RH  –  commercial 
packaging) and under accelerated conditions (40°C/25%RH – commercial packaging), respectively 2-
year  and  6-month  stability  data  have  been  provided.  15-month  data  under  intermediate  storage 
conditions (30°C/35%RH – commercial packaging) have been provided as well. 
The  parameters  tested  included  appearance,  assay,  degradation  products,  pH,  preservatives  content, 
microbial limit and weight loss.  
The observed changes were small, and not likely to have a significant effect on efficacy and safety of 
the product when used according to the directions in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Photostability studies have shown that the finished product is light sensitive. The secondary packaging 
appears to protect sufficiently the product from light. 
A satisfactory in-use stability study has been performed.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life, in-use shelf life and storage conditions as defined in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Entecavir is a guanosine nucleoside analogue with selective activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV). 
The  non-clinical  programme  consisted  of  a  series  of  studies  aiming  to  define  the  pharmacological, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicological profile of entecavir. 
All  pivotal  non-clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  principles  of  Good  Laboratory 
Practices (GLP). 
Pharmacology 
-  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Entecavir is phosphorylated to the active triphosphate form (ETV-TP) by cellular nucleoside kinases. 
This  was  shown  in  different  cell  systems  including  infected  hepatoma  cell  lines  but  the  extent  of 
phosphorylation of entecavir was dependent on cell-type. The triphosphate competes with the natural 
substrate,  deoxyguanosine  triphosphate  (dGTP),  of  human  HBV  polymerase.  In  vitro  studies  on 
mechanism  of  action  indicated  that  the  three  enzymatic  activities  of  the  viral  polymerase  were 
inhibited 1) priming activity, 2) reverse transcriptase activity resulting in first strand DNA synthesis 
and 3) DNA dependent DNA polymerase activity resulting in second-strand DNA synthesis.  
There  were  no  differences  in  the  phosphorylation  capacity  of  entecavir  using  normal  or  chronically 
infected hepatoma cell lines. The entecavir triphosphate had an intracellular half-life of approximately 
15  hours.  The  inhibition  constants  for  ETV-TP  (Ki)  were  1.02  and  2.6  nM  against  the  human  and 
woodchuck hepatitis polymerase, respectively, when the Km for dGTP was in the range of 8.4-20 nM. 
The IC50 for HBV polymerase as well as for woodchuck hepatitis virus was 1.6 nM. Further, the data 
suggest that concentrations of entecavir that inhibit the HBV polymerase have little if any inhibitory 
5/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activity  against  cellular  polymerases.  While  the  Ki  of  ETV-TP  for  HBV  DNA  polymerase  was 
0.0012 µM corresponding values for cellular DNA polymerases α, β, and δ ranged from 18 to 40 µM. 
The antiviral activity of entecavir was studied in cell systems stably expressing HBV (HepG2.2.15) as 
well as in systems transiently expressing HBV. The effective concentration for inhibition of 50 % of 
virus yield (EC50) ranged from 3.6 to 3.75 nM. In comparison the activity of lamivudine showed a 10-
fold range depending on cell system used (EC50s ranging from 116 to 1600 nM) and adefovir EC50s 
ranged widely from 580 to 2500 nM. The different methodology and assays used are likely to explain 
these differences. The inhibition constants for ETV-TP (Ki) were 1.02 and 2.6 nM against the human 
and woodchuck hepatitis polymerase, respectively, when the Km for dGTP was in the range of 8.4-20 
nM.  These  results  suggest  that  entecavir  potently  and  specifically  inhibits  the  HBV  polymerase  and 
that activity against cellular polymerases is unlikely at clinically relevant concentrations. The IC50 for 
HBV polymerase as well as for woodchuck hepatitis virus was 1.6 nM.  
A  large  data  set,  including  clinical  isolates  and  using  standardised  methodology,  showed  that  the 
median  EC50  value  for  entecavir  against  lamivudine  resistant  HBV  (rtL180M,  rtM204V)  was  0.026 
µM  (range  0.010-0.059  µM)  i.e  8  x  higher  concentration  than  required  for  inhibition  of  wild-type 
virus. YMDD (tyrosine, methionine, aspartate, aspartate motif) mutant polymerases thus appeared to 
retain sensitivity towards entecavir. 
With  regard  to  cytotoxicity  in  human  liver  cells,  concentration  of  entecavir  that  resulted  in 
cytotoxicity of 50% of cells was 30 µM, a value much higher than the active antiviral level. 
Both  entecavir  and  lamivudine  seemed  to  non-specifically  inhibit  cellular  metabolic  activity 
(decreases in lactate and ATP). However, high exposures of entecavir had no relevant adverse effects 
on γ polymerase or mitochondrial DNA synthesis in HepG2 cells (Ki > 160 µM). Entecavir contains a 
3’-OH moiety and may be incorporated into cellular DNA and is considered to act as a de facto chain 
terminator  in  similarity  to  some  other  nucleoside  analogues.  The  extent  of  incorporation  showed  a 
wide range depending on cell type, with low incorporation in human fibroblasts and high in hepatoma 
cells. 
In vivo studies were conducted in woodchucks and duckling, species that are susceptible to infection 
with hepatitis virus. Oral administration of ETV at doses ranging from 0.02 to 0.5 mg/kg once daily 
for 4 weeks in woodchucks chronically infected by hepatitis virus resulted in 2 to 3 log10 reductions in 
serum WHV DNA levels. After daily administration leading to viral suppression, a weekly regimen at 
0.5 mg/kg over 3 years maintained viral DNA at undetectable level. Antiviral activity of entecavir was 
reported in ducklings with up to 99% reduction in serum viral DNA but there was a rebound 2 weeks 
after treatment had stopped. Antiviral activity of entecavir in duck hepatocytes hepatitis B virus was 
represented by an EC50 value of 0.13 nM to compare with an EC50 value of 138 nM for lamivudine. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Entecavir did not show any significant potential for interactions in an in vitro receptor/channel ligand 
binding  screen  or  enzyme-system  assays  at  concentrations  up  to  100  µM.  Unlike  lamivudine  or 
adefovir, ETV has no relevant activity against HIV-1 (EC50 > 10 µM). 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
A battery of general pharmacology studies was conducted in mice and dogs prior to the systematic use 
of  GLP.  In  mice  administered  with  ETV  dose  up  to  8  mg/kg  for  7  days,  a  transient  impairment  of 
coordinated movement was observed at all doses on Day 1 but not on Days 3 or 7, and there was no 
effect  on  spontaneous  activity  at  any  time  point.  Entecavir  had  no  effect  on  cardiovascular  and 
respiratory  parameters  however  the  study  was  conducted  in  anaesthetised  dogs  with  doses  up  to 
2 mg/kg. 
There were no effects of entecavir on hERG channel current when used at concentrations of 3, 10 and 
30 µM. The study was repeated under GLP conditions and similar results were reported. 
Entecavir was also tested for effects on cardiac L-type channel current in canine ventricular myocytes 
at  levels  up  to  30  µM.  No  biologically  significant  effects  were  reported.  In  a  canine  Purkinje  fiber 
6/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assay entecavir at concentrations up to 30 µM had no biologically relevant effects on action potential 
parameters. In the rabbit Purkinje fiber assay (stimulation at 1 and 3 Hz), entecavir at concentrations 
up to 30 µM had minimal effects on APD90. 
Subsequently,  a  battery  of  GLP  oral  safety  pharmacology  studies  with  ETV  was  conducted.  These 
studies  did  not  reveal  any  effects  of  entecavir  on  the  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  in  male  rats  at 
single oral doses up to 8 mg/kg, on the cardiovascular system in male dogs at single oral doses up to 
1 mg/kg and on the respiratory system in male rats at single oral doses up to 8 mg/kg. 
All  together,  these  results  indicate  that  little  potential  for  undesirable  pharmacologic  or  cardiac 
electrophysiologic effects would be expected at therapeutic concentrations of ETV. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In  vitro,  co-administration  of  stavudine,  didanosine,  abacavir and zidovudine had no effect on HBV 
assays  containing  entecavir  at  the  EC50.  Entecavir  at  0.8  to  4.2  x  Cmax  had  no  significant  effects  on 
EC50 values of stavudine, didanosine, abacavir, zidovudine, lamivudine and tenofovir in cells infected 
with three HIV strains.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic characteristics of entecavir were studied in the species used in toxicological studies 
(mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and monkeys). Additional studies were conducted in the woodchuck and the 
duck, which were used as animal models of anti-HBV activity. Toxicokinetic evaluations, in support 
of pivotal toxicology studies, were conducted in compliance with GLP. The methods of analysis used 
to assay entecavir were adequate and validated. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Entecavir was rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration. A high bioavailability 
was  evident  in  most  species  (>  80  %  in  rats  and  dogs).  In  contrast  the  bioavailability  was  low  in 
monkeys (16 %), due to poor absorption but not related to first pass metabolism.  
Systemic  exposure  was  dose-related  but  not  always  dose  proportional  in  all  species.  Exposure  to 
entecavir  was  higher  in  male  rats  than  in  female  rats,  which  was  attributable  to  a  greater  extent  of 
metabolism in female rats. There were no sex-related differences in mice, dogs, and human. 
• 
  Distribution 
Protein  binding  was  low,  ranging  from  8%  in  mice  to  24%  in  dogs,  and  distribution  was  extensive. 
The  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  was  4.6,  1.6  and  1.0  l/kg  in  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys, 
respectively, suggesting extensive extravascular distribution and/or preferential binding in tissues. In 
mice,  0.5  hours  after  a  single  oral  dose  of  10  mg/kg,  highest  labelled  entecavir  was  detected  in 
bladder,  stomach,  kidney,  small  intestine  and  spleen.  In  rat,  1  hour  after  a  single  oral  dose  of 
10 mg/kg,  14C-label  was  initially  highest  in  bladder,  liver,  kidney,  lymph  nodes,  large  intestine, 
prostate,  and  bone  marrow.  Label  was  also  detected  in  the  maternal  cerebrum  of  pregnant  rats  and 
there  were  data  showing  that  the  compound  may  pass  through  the  blood/brain  barrier  in  mice,  dogs 
and monkeys. Studies in pregnant rats showed passage across the placenta and substance was excreted 
in milk of lactating animals within 1 hour after oral administration. 
The in vitro red blood cell (RBC) distribution of radioactivity of entecavir was 49 %, 1.6 %, 50 % and 
52  %  in  rats,  dogs,  monkeys  and  humans  respectively  indicating  that  entecavir  was  uniformly 
distributed in plasma and RBCs except in dog blood. 
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
Metabolism appeared limited in all species and seemed to proceed via sulphation and glucuronidation 
pathways.  Overall,  metabolites  accounted  for  a  limited  fraction  in  plasma,  urine  and  faeces  in  all 
species.  The  highest  extent  of  metabolism  was  in  rats  where  total  metabolites  (in  urine  and  faeces) 
7/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accounted for about 10 % in males and 30 % in females. This difference was attributed to differences 
in sulphotransferase activities. In humans though, up to 29% of plasma radioactivity was metabolites. 
These  were  mainly  glucuronides  representing  phase  II  metabolites.  Two  sulfate  conjugates  (M2  and 
M3) and 3 glucuronide conjugates (M1, M4, and M5) of entecavir were detected in male and female 
rats and male monkeys. In dogs, only the glucuronides M1, M4, and M5 of entecavir were detected. In 
addition, entecavir was not metabolised in mouse lung microsomes, mouse and rat lung homogenates, 
and  mouse  and  rat  lung  S9  fraction.  Although  metabolite  production  was  limited  in  species  used  in 
toxicology studies, the high exposures achieved indicate that production of metabolites was sufficient 
to  ensure  characterisation  of  any  potential  adverse  effects/safety  hazards  coupled  to  exposure  to 
metabolites. 
In vitro entecavir was not a substrate, inducer or inhibitor of human cytochrome P450 isozymes. It is 
therefore  anticipated  that  the  pharmacokinetics  drug-drug  interaction  with  entecavir  in  humans  is 
unlikely. 
• 
Excretion 
Excretion  was  primarily  via  urine  in  the  form  of  unchanged  compound  in  all  species  with  the 
exception of monkeys, where excretion mainly proceeded via faeces. Unchanged compound in faeces 
was probably unabsorbed compound.  
In rats, monkeys, and humans, the values of renal clearance were greater than the values of glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) suggesting that ETV is eliminated through a combination of passive (glomerular 
filtration) and active (net tubular secretion) processes by the kidney.  
The overall recovery of total radioactivity was about 90% in rats, dogs and monkeys over the period 
collected. 
The terminal half-life (T1/2) values following oral administration were 2.2 hours in rats, 22.7 hours in 
dogs, 27.4 hours in monkeys, and approximately 135 hours (mean value at dose levels of 0.1 mg, 0.5 
mg,  and  1.0  mg)  in  humans.  The  marked  difference  in  T1/2  values  reported  between  animals  and 
humans is most likely due to a combination of several factors including differences in the sensitivity 
of the assays used in the studies, and differences in the duration of sampling from which these values 
were  determined.  There  was  no  indication  of  systemic  accumulation  of  entecavir  after  repeated 
administration in rats and monkeys. There was low to moderate accumulation in dogs (1.1- to 2.5-fold 
increase) and in humans (1.6 to 2.7 -fold increase in the dose range), despite prolonged elimination. 
ETV was shown not to be a substrate of human P-gp, using Caco-2 cell monolayers and is therefore 
unlikely  to  be  involved  in  drug-drug  interactions  with  other  drugs  that  are  P-gp  substrates  or 
inhibitors. 
Toxicology 
A comprehensive toxicological programme was conducted in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys.  
• 
Single dose toxicity 
In mice and rats, entecavir showed minimal acute toxicity and oral doses up to 200 mg/kg were well 
tolerated. Doses > 1000 mg/kg were overtly toxic. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Studies were conducted in mice up to 6 months, in rats up to 6 months, in dogs up to 3 months and in 
monkeys up to 12 months. In some of the rodent studies, higher doses of entecavir were administered 
by  diet  instead  of  gavage  resulting  in  higher  exposures.  Target  organ  toxicity  in  diet  and  gavage 
studies seemed comparable and only the latter studies are considered below for the main findings.  
Doses as low as 0.02 mg/kg/day, corresponding to approximately clinical exposure at a dose of 1 mg, 
caused liver toxicity in rats, characterised as liver degeneration in a 6 month study. In other rat studies, 
as well as in a 6 month mouse study, increases in AST and ALT, single cell necrosis, hypertrophy and 
liver  degeneration  were  recorded.  Liver  tumours  were  noted  in  high  dose  females  in  the  rat 
8/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carcinogenicity  study.  Liver  changes  in  dogs  occurred  at  very  high  doses  and  appeared  primarily 
related to poor condition.  
In  the  1-month  dose  ranging  study  in  monkey,  there  was  hepatocellular  vacuolation  (minimal  in  1 
female at 5 mg/kg and mild in the remaining monkeys at 25 mg/kg), not associated with any evidence 
of  liver  dysfunction,  whereas  no  drug-related  changes  suggestive  of  an  effect  on  the  liver  were 
observed  in  the  1-year  monkey  study  with  doses  up  to  40  mg/kg,  corresponding  to  high  systemic 
exposure levels (AUC) in relation to expected clinical levels. 
In  6-month  studies  in  mice,  decreased  testes  weights  were  observed  at  ≥  5  mg/kg,  whereas 
seminiferous-tubular degeneration was observed only at the overtly toxic doses of 10 and 20 mg/kg. In 
rats,  effects  on  the  testes  were  limited  to  decreased  testis  weight  and  size  at  15  mg/kg.  In  dogs, 
decreased weight of the testes was observed at 0.3 mg/kg and seminiferous-tubular degeneration was 
observed  at  ≥  3  mg/kg  (0.3  and  3  mg/kg  were  non-overtly  toxic  doses).  These  changes  showed 
evidence of reversibility at 15 mg/kg following a 3-month postdose period. The testis was not a target 
organ in monkeys. At the threshold dose for microscopic changes in the testes, systemic exposure to 
entecavir was high in relation to expected clinical exposure. 
Kidney toxicity was described as nephropathy at doses from 10 mg/kg/day in the 6 month mice study, 
nephrosis  in  rats  at  150  mg/kg/day  in  the  2  week  study,  nephrosis  and  thrombosis  at  doses  of 
100/50 mg/kg/day in the 2 week dog study and as degeneration of renal tubules at 30/15 mg/kg/day in 
the  3  month  dog  study;  At  the  no-effect  doses  for  kidney  changes  (mice  5 mg/kg,  dogs  3  mg/kg), 
entecavir exposures were >40 times higher than in humans. Chronic progressive nephropathy was the 
leading cause of death in male rats (including controls) in a carcinogenicity study. No kidney lesions 
were  observed  in  rats  and  monkeys  at  the  highest  doses  tested  in  6-month  and  1-year  studies, 
respectively.  
Thymus  atrophy  was  reported  in  rats  at  high  doses  of  200  mg/kg/day  in  a  2  week  study  and  in  a  3 
month dog study at 30/15 mg/kg/day. 
Skeletal muscle myopathy was induced at doses of 1 mg/kg/day in mice in a 6 month study and in rats 
at 0.6 mg/kg/day in a 6 month study. Exposures to entecavir at no-effect doses for these findings were 
> 4 times those in humans. Skeletal muscle was not a target tissue in dogs or monkeys.  
Brain/spinal  cord  inflammation  was  apparent  only  in  the  3  month  study  in  dogs  for  which  both  no-
effect and threshold doses were established; at such doses, exposures to entecavir were 13- and 50-
fold higher than in humans at 1 mg. The CNS inflammation was shown to be reversible and was not 
observed in mice, rats, or monkeys. 
Gastrointestinal  toxicity,  including  fibrin  microthrombosis,  necrosis  of  villi,  inflammation,  and 
haemorrhage  was  occasionally  recorded  in  rats  (at  200  mg/kg/day  in  a  2  week  study)  and  dogs  (at 
100/50  mg/kg/day  in  the  2  week  study);  doses  with  overt  toxicivity.  Gastrointestinal  toxicity  was 
particularly  notable  in  moribund  animals  at  high  doses.  GI-function  was  not  affected  in  mice  after 
single doses in safety pharmacology studies. 
In  mice,  alveolar  histiocytosis  was  observed  in  the  lungs  at  ≥  1  mg/kg,  and  bronchioloalveolar 
hyperplasia and benign lung adenomas were observed at ≥ 10 mg/kg. At the no-effect dose for lung 
changes in mice (0.2 mg/kg), exposure to ETV was 22 times that in humans at 0.5 mg (12 times at 1 
mg). Similar changes were not observed in repeat-dose studies in rats, dogs, or monkeys at exposures 
to ETV that exceeded those in mice associated with lung changes.  
Monkey was the species that tolerated entecavir best and in a 12 month monkey study the high dose of 
40  mg/kg/day  produced  no  toxicity  and  clinical  chemistry  showed  only  slightly  increased  urea 
nitrogen and potassium, corresponding to high systemic exposure levels (AUC) in relation to expected 
clinical levels. 
9/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The range of target organs for toxicity thus  differed somewhat depending on species. In some cases 
this  might  depend  on  differences  in  distribution  e.g.  levels  of  compound  in  the  CSF  in  dogs  where 
CNS inflammation was recorded, reached up to 340 ng/ml but only 17.8 ng/ml in monkey where no 
CNS effects were apparent.  
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
ETV was not mutagenic in the Ames assay at concentrations ≤ 5000 µg/plate or in Chinese Hamster 
Ovary  (CHO)  cells  at  concentrations  ≤  1000  µg/ml.  Entecavir  was  clastogenic  in  an  in  vitro 
chromosomal aberration test in primary human lymphocytes at concentrations ≥ 10 µg/ml (≥ 36 µM). 
Entecavir  was  nonetheless  not clastogenic in an oral micronucleus study in rats at doses up to 2000 
mg/kg daily for 3 days and ETV did not cause DNA damage in the in vivo-in vitro hepatocyte DNA 
repair study in rats at single doses up to 2000 mg/kg. 
It is known that dNTP pool imbalances can be caused by nucleosides and can result in mutagenicity in 
the mouse lymphoma assay (MLA). A study was therefore conducted to characterise if imbalances in 
intracellular dNTP pools occurred with entecavir and results were consistent with such a mechanism 
being  involved  in  the  positive  clastogenic  results  in  human  lymphocytes.  The  levels  of  intracellular 
ETV-TP  associated  with  a  positive  response  in  the  MLA  were  higher  than  levels  expected  in  the 
clinical  situation,  however,  quantitative  extrapolations  from  in  vitro  studies  are  questionable. 
Phosphorylation  of  entecavir  in  human  hepatoma  cells  and  human  fibroblasts  was  comparable  and 
appeared much higher, up to 20-30x, than in mouse lymphoma cells. These differences were likely a 
function  of  differences  in  experimental  conditions  employed.  A  cumulative  mutational  effect  of 
prolonged nucleotide imbalances has been reported in some published studies, and it is possible that 
high  sustained  levels  of  the  triphosphate  in  the  carcinogenicity  studies  could  perturb  intracellular 
nucleotide  pools  and  contribute  to  the  tumours  recorded.  Studies  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  with  entecavir 
indicated  that  such  a  mechanism  could  be  significant  in  tissues/organs  such  as  liver  and  brain. 
Additional in vitro studies showed that ETV-TP levels were higher in mouse pneumocytes than in rat 
cells. A threshold concentration of entecavir appeared to exist and e.g. in liver, levels of entecavir-TP 
had to increase to 300 nM and above before disturbances in dNTP pools became manifest. 
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Mouse and rat long term carcinogenicity studies were conducted, in which entecavir was administered 
by oral gavage at doses up to 4 mg/kg/day in mice and 1.4/2.6 mg/kg/day in male/female rats.  
In male mice, lung bronchioalveolar adenomas and carcinomas were increased from a dose of 0.004 
(corresponding to exposure levels <1 in comparison with expected human exposures) and statistically 
significantly increased from a dose of 0.04 mg/kg (exposure multiples of 2-4x the human exposure). In 
female mice, bronchoalveolar tumours were increased at 0.4 mg/kg/day and statistically significantly 
increased at 4 mg/kg/day. Other findings included an increase in vascular tumours and benign salivary 
gland tumours in high dose females and an increase in male liver tumours at the high dose. Separate 
studies showed that entecavir increased proliferation of type II pneumocytes in mice, and multifocal 
hyperplasia was reported after 2 weeks of treatment. In CCR2 knockout mice the development of lung 
lesions was delayed. In addition increases in recruitment of macrophages in lung appeared to correlate 
with  the  proliferative  response  to  entecavir.  Rate  of  development  of  lung  lesions  also  seemed 
dependent on strain of mouse.In a series of additional studies in vitro and in vivo, it was determined 
that a direct proliferative effect of entecavir on type II pneumocytes was not involved. Rather a “key 
event”  in  the  development  of  mouse  lung  tumours  appeared  to  involve  an  entecavir  mediated 
chemotactic signal that resulted in an increased recruitment/accumulation of macrophages in the lung 
and  that  exhibited  species  differences  in  magnitude  and  appeared  absent  using  human  cells  in  vitro. 
The  potential  role  of  entecavir  in  subsequent  events  is  unclear.  Coculture  of  macrophages  with 
pneumocytes has been show to stimulate cell division in several species. Overall, it appears that the 
persistent and sustained proliferation of Type II pneumocytes in mouse lung was causally linked to the 
increased  incidence  of  lung  tumours  in  the  mouse  carcinogenicity  study.  The  data  also  suggest  a 
species-selective key event (ie, chemotaxis) in the development of entecavir-induced lung tumours in 
mice.However, as also discussed above (under genotoxicity) a general tumourigenic mechanism may 
involve a cumulative mutational effect of prolonged nucleotide pool imbalances. 
10/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
Survival  was  markedly  reduced  in  control  and  drug-treated  males  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study, 
apparently  due  to  a  high  incidence  of  chronic  progressive  nephropathy.  The  incidence  of  rare  brain 
tumours, glioma, was increased in males and females, notably at the high dose; a slight increase in the 
incidence of this tumour relative to controls was also observed in males at 0.2 mg/kg. Tumours were 
determined to be of microglial origin and in vitro studies in rat microglial cells showed that entecavir 
caused decreases in dGTP and increases in dTTP and dCTP with apparent threshold effects, consistent 
with  the  fact  that  deoxynucleotide  triphosphate  (dNTP)  pool  perturbations  could  be  involved  in 
tumour  development.  Benign  tumours  of  the  pancreas  were  noted  in  males  from  0.2  mg/kg  and 
pancreatic  acinar  cell  hyperplasia  with  no  clear  dose-response  was  increased  at  the  two  higher  dose 
levels. In addition, some other tumours were found scattered in various groups, including benign skin 
fibroma  in  females  at  0.4  and  2.6  mg/kg,  and  liver  adenoma  and  carcinoma,  Zymbal’s  gland 
carcinoma  and  uterine  hemangiosarcoma  in  females  at  2.6  mg/kg.  The  tumourigenic  dose  was 
considered  as  1.4  mg/kg  in  males  and  2.6  mg/kg  in  females.  Although  not  statistically  significant, 
particularly  when  considering  specific  tumour  types,  an  increase  in  tumour  incidence  that  could  be 
biologically  relevant,  was  evident  at  0.2/0.4  mg/kg  corresponding  to  systemic  exposure  levels 
approximately 3x and 6-7 x the clinical exposure at the 1 and 0.5 mg doses, respectively.  
Taken  together  the  mouse  and  rat  carcinogenicity  studies  indicate  that  a  tumourigenic  response  that 
seems biologically relevant may occur at systemic exposure levels <1x in male mouse (based on lung 
tumours), 8x in female mouse (based on lung tumours), and at exposures 3x in male and female rats in 
relation  to  a  clinical  dose  of  1  mg.  Margins  of  exposure  in  relation  to  the  0.5  mg  dose  would  be 
approximately  twice  as  high.  Overall  entecavir-  treatment  induced  tumours  at  multiple  sites  in  both 
genders in mouse and rat. With regard to non-lung tumours, experimental data suggest that entecavir-
TP  levels  above  a  certain  threshold  level  may  cause  generalised  dNTP  pool  perturbations  that  may 
contribute  to  tumour  development  in  susceptible  tissues/organs.  Any  potential  risks  to  humans  are 
further addressed in the safety and risk management plan sections of this document.  
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
The  potential  for  reproduction  toxicity  of  entecavir  was  investigated  in  standard  studies  in  rats  and 
rabbits. Although the pharmacokinetic profile of entecavir was not specifically determined in rabbits, 
in one study exposure was determined indicating a pharmacokinetic profile similar to those in rats and 
dogs, and therefore additional pharmacokinetics studies in rabbits were considered unnecessary.  
In the female fertility study doses of up to 30 mg/kg/day had no effects on oestrous cycling, mating or 
early embryonic development of offspring. In the male fertility study doses of up to 10 mg/kg/day had 
no  effects  on  mating  indices,  fertility  indices,  or  early  embryonic  development.  No  effects  were 
reported on testes, epididymides, prostate/seminal vesicle weights or sperm motility, morphology and 
counts. 
In the rat embryo foetal study, entecavir had no effects at the low dose of 2 mg/kg/day. In the mid and 
high dose dams at 20 and 200 mg/kg/day, decreased body weight gains and food intake were apparent. 
Embryofoetal  deaths  increased  at  the  high  doses,  and  foetal  body  weight  was  decreased  at  200 
mg/kg/day.  Also  at  200  mg/kg/day,  malformations  included  tail  (constriction  band,  bent,  short, 
stubbed  or  absent)  and  vertebrae  (bifurcated  arches).  Further,  ossification  delays  (vertebrae, 
sternebrae, phalanges), increases in the number of lumbar vertebrae and ribs were reported. Exposure 
at  2  mg/kg,  a  dose  not  associated  with  any  compound  related  changes,  was  approximately  28x  the 
expected human exposure. 
In a preliminary study in rabbits, maternal toxicity was apparent at ≥12.5 mg/kg and embryo-toxicity 
at  ≥25  mg/kg.  In  an  embryo  foetal  study  at  16  mg/kg,  corresponding  to  very  high  exposure  levels, 
entecavir increased resorptions and decreased live litter sizes. Development delays in the ossification 
of the hyoid and an increased incidence of 13th rib were also noted at this dose. No foetal effects were 
recorded at the two lower doses (1 and 4 mg/kg). 
11/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pre- and postnatal study in rats at doses of 0.3, 3 and 30 mg/kg from day 6 of gestation through 
day 20 of lactation, entecavir induced maternal changes consisting of a slight, transient reduction of 
weight  gain  in  the  high  dose  group  during  gestation.  Evaluation  of  the  F1  generation  for  sexual 
maturity,  sensory  perception,  learning,  memory  and  reproductive  function  did  not  indicate  any 
entecavir-induced changes.  
• 
Local tolerance (if applicable) 
As entecavir is administered orally, no studies evaluating local tolerance were considered necessary. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
A  1-month  immunotoxicty  study  in  rats  with  doses  up  to  10  mg/kg  showed  that  entecavir  did  not 
affect humoral T cell dependent antibody response. 
Entecavir did not exhibit any phototoxic potential in in vitro studies.  
Because of the potential for mitochondrial toxicity with nucleoside analogues, an in vitro study was 
conducted to assess the effects of ETV at concentrations up to 750 µM (approximately equivalent to 
208 µg/ml) and 3 marketed antiviral nucleoside analogues on cell viability and cellular respiration in 
human  HepG2  hepatoma  cells.  Exposure  of  HepG2  cells  to  ETV  for  5  days  did  not  result  in  any 
adverse effects on oxidative mitochondrial respiration. These results are consistent with experiments 
is  
showing  no 
for  mitochondrial  DNA  polymerase  gamma 
>160  µM),  and  that  high  levels  of  ETV-TP  were  not  recognised  or  utilised  by  DNA  polymerase 
gamma.  Additional  in  vitro  studies  in  HepG2  cells  with  entecavir  at  concentrations  up  to  3.4  µM 
(approximately equivalent to 0.9 µg/ml) for up to 15 days had no significant effects on extracellular 
lactate production, mitochondrial DNA or cell numbers. 
(Ki  of  ETV-TP 
inhibition 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use 
of entecavir is anticipated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical programme consisted of: 
-  studies  aiming  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  entecavir  (including  interaction 
studies, studies in special populations and population PK analysis of data from Phase 2 studies). 
-  three  distinct  Phase  2/3  ‘programmes’  to  assess  the  use  of  ETV  in  the  treatment  of  chronic  HBV 
infection.  These  have  been  conducted  in  a  staggered  but  overlapping  sequence  and  all  are  ongoing. 
The worldwide programme started in early 1999 and consists of 12 studies in over 2100 subjects. A 
separate  development  programme  in  China  began  in  early  2002  and  consists  of  three  studies  in  875 
subjects. A third development program in Japan began in late 2002 and consists of three studies plus 
one roll-over study in over 225 subjects. All three programs have rollover studies that accommodate 
long-term dosing in appropriate subjects who were previously enrolled in a Phase 2/3 study. 
The  clinical  programme  therefore  included  a  wide  range  of  patients:  nucleoside-naïve  subjects,  and 
lamivudine-refractory  subjects,  including  HBV/HIV  co-infected  from  different  geographic  regions.. 
LVD-refractory  post-liver  transplant  patients  provided  limited  safety  data  in  an  important  setting  of 
chronic HBV patients. An open-label head-to-head comparison of ETV 1.0 mg versus adefovir (ADV) 
in  patients  with  decompensated  cirrhosis  is  ongoing  and  provided  some  preliminary  safety  and 
efficacy data.  
12/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  clinical  studies  included  a  statement  regarding  conduct  in  accordance  with  Good  Clinical 
Practices. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
The  approved  indication  is  “Baraclude  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis B  virus 
(HBV)  infection  in  adults  with  compensated  liver  disease  and  evidence  of  active  viral  replication, 
persistently elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active 
inflammation  and/or  fibrosis.  This  indication  is  based  on  clinical  trial  data  in  patients  with  HBeAg 
positive and HBeAg negative HBV infection, nucleoside naive patients and patients with lamivudine-
refractory hepatitis B”. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics profile of entecavir was determined in a series of studies including 644 healthy 
subjects.  In  addition  population  pharmacokinetic  and  population  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
(PK/PD) analyses were performed from data collected in a phase I study from subjects with selected 
degrees of renal impairment and in three phase II studies from patients with chronic HBV infected (n 
= 222). Another phase II study assessed the pharmacokinetics of entecavir when co-administered with 
either cyclosporine or tacrolimus in liver transplant recipients. 
Entecavir plasma and urine concentrations were determined by validated adequate analytical methods. 
• 
Absorption  
Entecavir is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract following oral administration, with peak 
plasma concentrations (Cmax) occurring within 1 hour of administration. Due to the lack of an adequate 
intravenous formulation, the oral absolute bioavailability has not been determined. The bioavailability 
has been estimated to be at least 70%. Limited data suggested that entecavir is not a substrate of P-gp.  
Bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  between  the  tablets  and  capsules  used  during  clinical 
development and between the oral solution and the clinical tablets. The shape of the commercial film 
coated  tablet  differs  from  that  of  the  clinical  tablet  (round  instead  of  triangle)  but  no  further 
bioequivalence study was considered necessary. 
After  administration  of  food  (high-fat  breakfast)  Cmax  is  reduced  by  about  50%  and  AUC  by  20%, 
while tmax is increased compared to fasted state. A PK/PD modelling showed that in treatment naïve 
subjects entecavir could be taken with or without food, as exposure in both cases are at the flat part of 
the concentration-response curve and well above EC90/AUC90. In LVD-refractory patients, however, a 
reduced exposure when taken with food could result in a lower efficacy. Therefore, the Summary of 
Product Characteristics recommends that for treatment naïve patients, entecavir can be taken with our 
without food whereas in lamivudine refractory patients, entecavir is to be taken without food at least 2 
hours before or after a meal.  
• 
Distribution 
As  entecavir  has  not  been  administered  intravenously  to  humans,  Vss  has  not  been  determined.  The 
total volume of distribution has nevertheless been estimated to be large based on Vss data in animals 
and Vz/F in human (2550 to 7708 l). The protein binding of entecavir in human serum is low (~13%), 
and  entecavir  distributes  uniformly  between  plasma  and  red  blood  cells  (RBCs)  in  human  whole 
blood. 
• 
Elimination 
Renal excretion of unchanged substance is the primary route of entecavir elimination. Values for renal 
clearance (about 400 ml/min) of entecavir were greater than the glomerular filtration rate, indicating 
13/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that  excretion  of  entecavir  by  the  kidneys  occurs  via  a  combination  of  glomerular  filtration  and  net 
tubular secretion. 
After 1 mg administration of  14C-entecavir, about 40 % of the dose was recovered in urine over the 
first 24h, thereafter the excretion rate was low reflecting the long terminal half-life of entecavir. Over 
the 14 days collected period, 75.6±4.6% of the dose was excreted in urine and 6.3±1.0% of the dose in 
faeces.  Total  recovery  was  on  average  81.9%  (range  76.6-86.9%).  Unchanged  entecavir  constituted 
the majority of the radioactivity in urine, 70.4±3.9% of the dose. The extent of metabolism was low, 
the metabolites in urine and faeces constituted ≤10% of the administered dose. No phase I metabolites 
were  detected.  In  plasma  and  urine  three  glucuronide  conjugates  were  detected  and,  in  faeces  a 
sulphate conjugate. Entecavir has a terminal half-life of approximately 130 hours and an effective half 
life for accumulation of approximately 24 hours.  
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Single  and  multiple  dose  data  suggest  more  than  proportional  increase  in  exposure after single dose 
administration,  but  roughly  dose  proportional  exposure  at  steady-state.  Steady  state  is  generally 
reached within 7 – 10 days. The mean accumulation index was approximately 1.5 – 1.8, indicating that 
once daily dosing resulted in modest degree of accumulation. A model with concentration dependent 
distribution 
the  data.  Entecavir 
pharmacokinetics are time independent. 
to  a  peripheral  compartment  could  adequately  describe 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  entecavir  is  characterised  by  a  moderate  inter-individual  variability.  In  the 
population PK analysis of Phase II data, inter-individual variability in CL/F was 40% and the residual 
variability  36%.  Intra-individual  variability  (inter-occasion  variability)  was  not  determined  in  this 
analysis. In healthy volunteers, variability was lower with CV for AUC about 15-20%.  
• 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of entecavir was assessed in a parallel group, 
single  dose  (1  mg)  study.  Subjects  were  assigned  to  each  of  6  groups  based  on  underlying  renal 
function: normal renal function (CLcr > 80 ml/min), mild renal impairment (CLcr: 50 – 80 ml/min), 
moderate  renal  impairment  (CLcr:  30  –  49  ml/min),  severe  renal  impairment  (CLcr  <  30  ml/min), 
severe  renal  impairment  with  hemodialysis  and  severe  renal  impairment  managed  with  continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Results are shown in table 1. 
14/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  1:  Mean  PK  parameters  of  entecavir  after  a  single  oral  dose  of  1  mg  with  normal  renal function 
and with various degrees of renal impairment. 
Pharmacokinetic Parameter  
Cmax (ng/ml)  
Geometric Mean 
(CV%) 
AUCo-t (ng.h/ml) 
Geometric Mean 
(CV%) 
t1/2 (h) 
Mean 
(SD) 
CLT/F (ml/min) 
Mean 
(SD) 
CLR (ml/min) 
Mean 
(SD) 
Normal 
>80 
(n=6) 
8.06 
(30.7) 
27.90 
(25.6) 
77.39 
(29.88) 
588.1 
(153.7) 
Mild 
50-80 
(n=6) 
10.43 
(37.2) 
51.46 
(22.8) 
113.21 
(13.67) 
309.2 
(62.6) 
383.18 
(101.80) 
197.90 
(78.11) 
Moderate 
49-30 
(n=6) 
Severe 
20-<30 
(n=6) 
10.53 
(22.7) 
69.49 
(22.7) 
130.65 
(25.74) 
226.3 
(60.1) 
135.57a 
(31.55) 
15.30 
(33.8) 
145.66 
(31.5) 
162.34 
(33.49) 
100.6 
(29.1) 
40.27 
(10.11) 
 Haemodialysis 
2h 
(n=6) 
pre 
Post 
(n=6) 
12.12 
(41.1) 
127.10 
(20.2) 
15.37 
(56.4) 
233.91 
(28.4) 
CAPD 
(n=4) 
16.56 
(29.7) 
221.80 
(11.6) 
155.55 
(33.16)  
276.34 
(143.40) 
802.16 
(872.37) 
110.69 
(24.6) 
50.6 
(16.5) 
35.7 
(19.6) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Results  showed  that  exposures  i.e  AUC  values  are  increased  approximately  by  90  %,  150  %  and 
420 % in the creatinine clearance groups 50 – 80, 49 – 30 and < 30 ml/min as compared to subjects 
with creatinine clearance > 80 ml/min. 
Given  the  large  renal  function-related  increase  in  exposure  in  moderate,  severe  and  end-stage  renal 
disease, dose reductions are needed in these groups. A population PK approach using data from this 
study and simulations were developed for defining dosing recommendations in this population, using 
target AUC criteria which were based on the exposure of patients with normal renal function.  
The  results  of  the  simulation  showed  that  no  dosage  adjustment  is  necessary  for  subjects  with  mild 
renal impairment (CLcr: 50-80 ml/min). In order to manage exposure in subjects with moderate renal 
impairment (Clcr: 30-50 ml/min), a dose reduction of 50 % of the normal dose is recommended. For 
subjects with severe renal impairment (CLcr ‹ 30 ml/min), 30 % of the recommended normal dose is 
needed to maintain comparable exposure to subjects with normal renal function. In subjects with end 
stage renal disease managed with hemodialysis or CAPD, 10 % of the normal dose (administered after 
the hemodialysis session) is recommended. 
Hepatic impairment 
In  a  study  comparing  the  pharmacokinetics  of  1  mg  oral  dose  of  entecavir  in  normal  healthy 
volunteers and subjects with moderate (Child Pugh class B) and severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child Pugh 
class  C),  results  showed  that  exposure  in  terms  of  Cmax  and  AUC  was  not  altered  in  subjects  with 
moderate to severe hepatic impairment. No dose adjustment is therefore warranted. 
Gender, weight, race 
The pharmacokinetics population analysis showed that entecavir pharmacokinetics are not influenced 
to  a  significant  extent  by  gender,  weight  or  race.  No  dose  adjustment  or  specific  precautions  are 
therefore needed in these populations in the absence of reduced renal function.  
The effect of gender was also evaluated in a pharmacokinetics study in the elderly. AUC was 14 % 
higher in women than in men, but this was due to differences in renal function and weight. 
Paediatric population 
There are currently no pharmacokinetic data in children or adolescents.  
Elderly 
The  effect  of  age  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  entecavir  was  evaluated  comparing  elderly  subjects  in 
the age range 65-83 years (mean age females 69 years, males 74 years) with young subjects were in 
the  age  range  20-40  years  (mean  age  females  29  years,  males  25  years).  AUC  was  29  %  higher  in 
elderly than in young subjects however this was mainly caused by a difference in renal function and 
weight.  After  adjusting  for  differences  in  creatinine  clearance  and  body weight elderly had a 12.5% 
higher AUC than young subjects. 
15/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
A population PK/pharmacodynamic analysis was performed on data collected in phase 2 studies from 
subjects with chronic hepatitis B (AI463004, AI463005, AI463014). The analysis showed that chronic 
hepatitis B infection per se is not expected to have a major effect on the pharmacokinetics of entecavir. 
Renal  function  was  the  only  significant  covariate  influencing  entecavir  clearance.  The  population 
estimated CL was similar to that in healthy volunteers, while post-hoc estimates of exposure at the 0.5 
and  1  mg  dose  levels  suggested  a  30%  and  70%  higher  exposure  at  0.5  and  1  mg,  respectively,  in 
patients  than  in  healthy  volunteers.  The  difference  in  exposure  between  healthy  volunteers  and 
patients  to  a  large  extent  can  be  explained  by  differences  in  variability,  a  skewed  distribution  in 
patients and a lower renal function. Inter-individual variability in CL/F was 40% in the population PK 
analysis. 
Patients with liver transplant 
Compared  to  healthy  volunteers,  orthotopic  liver  transplant  subjects  on  a  stable  dose  of 
immunosuppressive therapy (cyclosporin or tacrolimus) appeared to have 2 fold increase in exposures, 
which seemed mainly be caused by differences in renal function. Therefore dosage adjustment should 
be considered based on renal function in liver transplant patients.  
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Entecavir  does  not  affect  CYP450  isoenzymes  and  is  itself  not  a  substrate  for  CYP450.  Therefore 
CYP450 mediated interactions are unlikely to occur with entecavir. 
Single  and  multiple  dose  interaction  studies  were  performed  with  lamivudine  and  multiple  dose 
interaction  studies  were  performed  with  adefovir  and  tenofovir.  These  compounds  are  eliminated 
predominantly  by  tubular  active  secretion.  No  significant  interaction was observed with lamivudine, 
adefovir or tenofovir. The reason for lack of interaction could possibly be that these compounds are 
not  substrates  of  the  same  transport  protein  as  entecavir.  It  cannot  be  excluded  that  there  may  be 
interactions with other compounds undergoing active renal secretion, therefore as recommended in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics, patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions when 
entecavir is co-administered with such compounds. 
Data from the study in liver transplant patients suggest that cyclosporin and tacrolimus do not affect 
entecavir pharmacokinetics to any major extent. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
As  already  mentioned  in  section  3.3,  entecavir  is  a  cyclopentyl  guanine  analogue  and  a  selective 
inhibitor of HBV replication.  
•  Entecavir resistance profile  
In vitro 
In  cell-based  assays  8-fold reductions in entecavir phenotypic susceptibility was observed for LVD-
resistant  strains.  Further  reductions  (>70  fold)  in  entecavir  phenotypic  susceptibility  required  the 
presence of primary LVD resistance amino acid substitutions (rtL180M and/or rtM204V/I) along with 
additional substitutions at residues rtT184, rtS202 and rtM250, or a combination of these substitutions 
with  or  without  an  rtI169  substitution  in  the  HBV  polymerase.  When  present  alone  in  recombinant 
virus, none of these substitutions exhibited significant phenotypic resistance to ETV. 
There  is  no  in  vitro  evidence  for  cross-resistance  between  adefovir  and  ETV,  or  for  any  functional 
interference between ETV and other nucleoside/nucleotide analogues used for the treatment of either 
HBV or HIV. 
16/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vivo 
The ETV resistance profile is based on the evaluation of genotypic and phenotypic data from patients 
treated  with  ETV  for  up  to  96  weeks  in  7  clinical  studies  conducted  in  nucleoside-naïve  and  LVD 
refractory  patients.  It  has  been  confirmed  that  the  identified  signature  ETV  associated  resistance 
(ETVr) substitutions rtT184, rtS202 and/or M250 with or without an rtI169 substitution in the HBV 
polymerase  require  the  presence  of  primary  lamivudine  resistance  amino  acid  substitutions  (rtL180 
and/or rtM204) to result in reduction in ETV phenotypic susceptibility. 
Nucleoside-naïve  patients:  The  majority  of  HBV  chronically  infected  nucleoside-naïve  patients 
(543/659; 82%) receiving ETV 0.5 mg once daily achieved a reduction in viral load to <400 copies/ml 
at 48 weeks. Genotypic analysis of serum HBV DNA from nucleoside-naïve HBeAg- positive (Study 
AI463022;  n=219)  or  HBeAg-negative  (Study  AI463027;  n=211)  patients  detected  no  genotypic 
changes  in  the  HBV  polymerase  associated  with  phenotypic  resistance  to  ETV  at  Week  48.  There 
were  255  nucleoside-naïve  patients  that  completed  >90  weeks  of  ETV  therapy  and  another  358 
patients, who were halted prior to Week 96 due to a complete virological response (Study AI463022; 
n=290, Study AI463027; n=268). Analysis of the patients continuing ETV treatment during the second 
year did not reveal any evidence of emerging resistance. Genotypic and phenotypic analysis of HBV 
isolates from 18 patients who experienced a confirmed virological rebound using PCR assay (>1 log10 
copies/ml increase from nadir) by Week 96 failed to show the emergence of ETV resistance. In four 
additional  patients,  who  did  not  achieve  HBV  DNA  reduction  <100.000  copies/ml,  HBV  isolates 
remained fully susceptible to ETV. 
Lamivudine-refractory  patients:  One-fifth  of  LVD-refractory  patients  (21%)  with  chronic  HBV 
infection  achieved  HBV  DNA  levels  <400  copies/ml  at  Week  48  on  ETV  1.0  mg  once  daily. 
Genotypic  analysis  of  clinical  samples  with  detectable  viral  DNA  identified  7%  (13/189)  with 
evidence  of  emerging  ETV  resistance-associated  substitutions  by  week  48.  Of  these  13  patients,  2 
(1%) experienced virological rebound at Week 48. However, during the second year of treatment there 
were additionally 14 of 154 (9%) patients displaying ETV resistance. In all cases resistant variants had 
evidence  of  pre-existing  LVD-resistance  mutations  (rtL180M  and/or  rtM204V/I)  and  an  additional 
change  at  residues  rtT184,  rtS202  and/or  rtM250.  No  additional  primary  ETV  resistance  associated 
substitutions were identified during the 2 years of ETV treatment. 
Subsequent  analysis  of  baseline  viral  samples  revealed  the  presence  of  ETV  resistance  associated 
substitutions prior to ETV therapy in the majority of patients evaluated, demonstrating that prior LVD 
treatment selects for ETV resistance changes in a subset of patients. 
Liver  transplant  patients:  Nearly  all  subjects  (7/8)  developed  ETV  genotypic  resistance  mutations 
through 3 years of treatment.  
Overall results suggest: 
- 
- 
that ETV treatment does not select for LVD resistance substitutions de novo  
that  phenotypic  resistance  to  ETV  require  the  presence  of  LVD  resistance  mutations  (rtL180M 
and/or  rtM204V/I)  as  well  as  secondary  ETV  resistance  substitutions  at  rtT184,  rtS202  and/or 
rtM250 
that  prior  LVD  treatment  selects  for ETV resistance, as ETV resistance associated substitutions 
were found to pre-exist in some LVD-refractory subjects 
that in LVD-refractory patients, 9% of ETV-treated patients experienced virological rebounds due 
to resistance in the second year of therapy  
that in nucleoside-naïve patients, there was no evidence of the emergence of ETV resistance up to 
Week 96 of ETV therapy 
that  there  was  a correlation between the baseline virus population phenotype (EC50 of <10 nM) 
and the maximal ETV antiviral efficacy in treated subjects (HBV DNA levels of <300 copies/ml). 
in  vitro  data,  as  well  as  limited  clinical  data,  demonstrated  that  ETV  resistant  HBV  appear  to 
retain full susceptibility to adefovir. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effects 
17/55 
©EMEA 2006 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose relationship in both populations (effect of dose on the time course of HBV DNA reduction) 
and  a  decreased  effect  of  ETV  in  the  LVD  refractory  population  was  shown.  A  lamivudine  naïve 
subject  receiving  a  0.5  mg  daily  dose  of  entecavir  was  estimated  to  have  an  expected  maximum 
reduction of HBV DNA of 5.5 log copies/ml, whereas a lamivudine refractory subject receiving a 1 
mg  daily  dose  of  entecavir  would  have  an  expected  maximum  reduction  of  HBV  DNA  of  4.7  log 
copies/ml.  It  was  also  shown  that  there  was  no  evidence  of  severe  CNS  adverse  events  being 
associated  with  increased  ETV  exposure.  Two  PK/PD  analyses  have  been  made;  a  PK/PD  analysis 
evaluating the relationship between AUC, Cmax, Cmin and reduction in viral load and a PK/PD analysis 
evaluating  the  effect  of  exposure  (AUC) on the time course of HBV DNA reduction. Both analyses 
suggest that the 0.5 mg dose will provide maximum efficacy in treatment naïve patients, and that no 
additional effect could be expected by increasing the dose. The data from these models suggest that 
the exposure at the 1.0 mg dose is approaching the top of the concentration response curve and that 
even  with  a  large  increase  in  dose,  the  increase  in  efficacy  would  be  very  modest.  Hence,  from  a 
PK/PD perspective it is concluded that the proposed 1.0 mg dose is acceptable in LVDr patients. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical programme comprised 11 clinical studies, 9 from the worldwide programme and 2 from 
the China development programme. The main clinical studies include 3 phase III studies and 1 subset 
of  patients  in  a  dose-ranging  phase  II  study  and  compare  the  efficacy  of  entecavir  (ETV)  versus 
lamivudine  (LVD).  Studies  cover  a  broad  selection  of  patients  with  compensated  liver  disease  and 
HBV viraemia (See table 2): 
- nucleoside-naïve HBeAg positive subjects (study A1463-022; n=709),  
- nucleoside-naïve HBeAg negative subjects (study A1463-027; n=638)  
- and LVD-refractory HBeAg positive subjects (studies A1463-026; n=286 and A1463-014; n=42).  
The  total  efficacy  population  in  these  studies  includes  1720  treated  patients  (ETV  862/LVD  858). 
Efficacy  data  were  also  available  from  several  supportive  studies.  In  addition,  preliminary  data  in 
HBV/HIV co-infected LVD-refractory patients from an on-going phase II study (AI463-038), from an 
open-label study (AI463-015) conducted in LVD-refractory post-liver transplant patients and from an 
ongoing open-label head-to-head comparison of ETV 1.0 mg versus adefovir (ADV) 10 mg in patients 
with decompensated cirrhosis (AI463-048) have been provided. Finally preliminary results from roll-
over studies have been submitted. 
Although the clinical programme has been initiated prior to the CHMP guideline on anti-hepatitis B 
therapy, it is in line with the spirit of the guideline. 
18/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Overview of the pivotal phase III/II studies in the entecavir clinical programme 
Study 
No. centres 
Locations  
Study 
population 
Treatment 
Duration 
Number 
enrolled 
Number treated 
LVD 
ETV 
–
and 
HBeAg 
positive 
negative 
(HBV  DNA 
>20 MEq/ml) 
4 cohorts; 
0.1,  
0.5,  
1,0,  
0.05 mg QD 
28 days+ 24 week 
follow-up 
42 
0.01,  0.1,  0.5  mg 
QD 
24 weeks 
185 
II 
Nucleoside-naïve subjects 
Phase II 
AI463-004 
Phase 
Randomise
d,  double-
blind 
placebo-
controlled 
9 
Argentina  EU 
USA,  Canada, 
Hong Kong 
39 
EU, 
Australia Asia 
USA, 
II 
AI463-005 
Phase 
Randomise
d,  double-
blind  ETV 
vs 
LDV 
100 mg 
Phase III studies 
AI463-022 
137 
EU,  USA,  Asia, 
South America 
AI463-027 
146 
EU,  USA,  Asia, 
South America 
LVD-refractory subjects 
AI463-026 
84 
EU,  USA,  Asia,  
South America 
AI463-014 
(Phase II) 
41 
EU, USA, Asia;  
Australia 
LVD-naïve 
and 
-refractory 
HBeAg 
positive 
negative 
(HBV  DNA 
>40 MEq/ml) 
–
and 
LVD- naive 
HBeAg + 
ETV 0.5 mg QD 
LVD 100 mg QD 
HBeAg  -/anti-
HBe+ 
ETV 0.5 mg QD 
LVD 100 mg QD 
HBeAg + 
ETV 1.0 mg QD 
LVD 100 mg QD 
ETV  0.1,  0.5,  1.0 
1.0 mg QD 
LVD 100 mg QD 
HBeAg pos or 
neg 
with  viraemia 
on LVD  
(HBV  DNA 
>10 MEq/ml) 
8 
Placeb
o 
n= 
(2/dos
e 
level) 
LVD 
100mg 
n = 40 
ETV 
n=34  
(8-9 
/dose 
level) 
ETV 
n=129 
0.01mg 
n=52  
0.1  mg 
n=34 
0.5  mg 
n=43 
1056 
354 
355 
1468 
325 
313 
668 
145 
45 
Total no 
679 
420 
141 
259 
ETV, 
n=136 
0.1  mg 
n=47 
0.5  mg 
n=47 
1.0  mg, 
n=42 
+12 weeks  
follow-up  
(open  LVD 
week 48) 
to 
52 weeks 
(Up  to  96  weeks 
for 
partial 
responders) 
52 weeks 
(Up  to  96  weeks 
partial 
for 
responders) 
52 weeks 
(Up  to  96  weeks 
for 
partial 
responders) 
52 weeks 
(Up  to  76  weeks 
for 
partial 
responders)  
24 week  
follow-up 
(Complete 
Response ) 
12 week others 
(Open  label  phase 
at  w  48;  partial 
respond.) 
 ETV: entecavir; LVD lamivudine; QD once daily; Meq/ml  
• 
Dose response study(ies) 
Total all populations 
Total no 
183 
862 
190 
858  
Three phase 2 studies (004, 005 and 014) were conducted to confirm the in vitro findings of anti-HBV 
activity and to identify the recommended dose for the confirmatory trials (See table 2).  
The  three  dose-ranging  studies  included  a  total  of  223  subjects  treated  with  different  ETV  doses 
(range:  0.01,  0.1,  0.5  mg  and  1.0  mg  once  daily)  and  87  subjects  treated  with  LVD  once  daily. 
Nucleoside-naïve  subjects  and  LVD-refractory  subjects  were  evaluated  separately.  The  rational  for 
testing  a  higher  dose  in  LVD-refractory  subjects  laid  on  the  in  vitro  data  showing  a  reduced 
susceptibility of LVDr virus to entecavir.  
19/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nucleoside naïve subjects 
In  the  pilot  dose  escalating  study  004,  entecavir  produced  rapid  and  significant  reductions  in  serum 
HBV DNA. The mean log reduction in HBV DNA (Chiron assay) in the ETV group was –2.20 (0.005 
mg), -2.27 (0.1 mg), -2.80 (0.5 mg) and – 2.54 (1.0 mg) compared to placebo (p<0.0001). There was 
no  evidence  of  dose  related  or  dose  limiting  clinical  adverse  events.  A  strong  dose  response  was 
demonstrated in the post-dosing measurements (i.e 28 days post completion of treatment). The HBV 
DNA differences for 0.5 and 1.0 mg versus that for the 0.05 mg were - 1.36 log10 (p = 0.0004) and  
- 1.51 log10 (p= 0.0051) respectively.  
In  study  005,  both  ETV  0.1  and  0.5  mg  doses  were  superior  to  LVD  in  viral  load  reduction.  The 
difference in HBV DNA levels by PCR for ETV 0.1 mg versus LVD at Week 22 was estimated to be -
0.97  log,  and  the  difference  for  ETV  0.5  mg  versus  LVD  was  -1.28  log  (p-value  <  0.0001  for  both 
comparisons). There was a clear dose response. The mean log10 reduction in HBV DNA in the ETV 
dose groups was -2.41 log10copies/ml (0.01 mg), -4.31 log10 (0.1 mg), -4.72 log10 (0.5 mg) (p <0.0001 
for  both  the  comparisons  of  0.01  mg  to  0.1  and  0.5  mg).  The  mean  log10  reduction  for  LVD,  -3.36 
log10 copies/ml was significantly greater than in the ETV 0.01 mg group. 
There  was  a  significant  difference  favouring  the  ETV  0.5  mg  dose  versus  the  ETV  0.1  mg  dose  in 
reduction in HBV DNA by PCR (p=0.018 at Week 22). 
Overall, in nucleoside-naïve subjects, a clear dose response was demonstrated and a threshold dose of 
0.01 mg was identified. The selected dose of ETV of 0.5 mg for nucleoside-naïve subjects was based 
on superiority in HBV DNA reduction by PCR at Week 22 compared with the ETV 0.1 mg dose. The 
analyses of dose-response suggested a flattening of the curve in the 0.1-0.5 mg range. Consequently, 
the  0.5  mg  was  chosen  for  further  phase  III  development.  Due  to  adverse  events  (mainly  nervous 
system) which were not confirmed in phase III trials particularly seen with 0.5 mg, higher dose in this 
population has not been investigated.  
LVD-refractory subjects 
The study 014 compared three doses of entecavir (0.1 mg, 0.5 mg and 1.0 mg) versus lamivudine.  
The  majority  of  subjects  were  male  (81%)  and  white  (61%)  or  Asian/Pacific  Islander  (32%)  with  a 
mean age of 46 years; 67% of subjects were positive for HBeAg at baseline. Eighty-seven percent of 
subjects had YMDD mutations in the HBV DNA polymerase gene.  
Results  on  the  primary  endpoint  (proportion  of  subjects  with  HBV  DNA  levels  below  limit  of 
quantification of 0.7 Meq/ml) are presented in table 3. The results showed that ETV 1.0 and 0.5 mg 
were superior to lamivudine in the primary endpoint, as well as in all the secondary endpoints (table 
4). 
Table 3: HBV DNA < LOQ (0.7 MEq/ml) by bDNA Assay at Week 24 (NC = F) 
ETV 0.1 mg 
ETV 0.5 mg 
ETV 1.0 mg 
n = 47 
9/47 (19 %) 
n = 47 
24/47 (51 %) 
n = 42 
33/42 (79 %) 
-
5.8 % 
37.7 % 
65.2 % 
-12.6  %  ;  24.2 
% 
0.45 
14.4  %  ;  61.1 
% 
<0.0001 
39.8  %  ;  90.7 
% 
< 0.001 
NC = F 
difference  ETV 
LVD 
95% CI 
p-value 
100 
LVD 
mg 
n = 45 
6/45 (13 %) 
Consistent results were reached at weeks 48. 
20/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Secondary efficacy endpoints (NC=F) 
Secondary endpoint 
ETV 0.1 mg 
N=47 
ETV 0.5 mg 
N=47 
ETV 1.0 mg 
N=42 
LVD 100mg 
N=45 
-1.89 
-2.85 
-1.23 
-1.33 
-2.16 
-2.16 
-0.43 
-0.23 
-2.43 
--2.52 
Mean log10 reduction bDNA assay log10 MEq/ml 
Week 24  
Week48 
Mean log10 reduction PCR assay log10 copies/ml 
Week 24 
Week 48 
Week 76 (n=27) 
HBV DNA<400 copies/ml at week 24  n (%) 
HBV DNA<400 copies/ml at week 48  n (%) 
HBeAg loss n (%) at week 24     n (%) 
HBeAg loss n (%) at week 48     n (%) 
HBeAg seroconversion at week 48  n (%) 
ALT normalization Week 24   n (%) 
ALT normalization Week 48  n (%) 
Complete response* 
Week 24 all 
Week 48 all 
Week 48 HBeAg negative (NC=M) 
Week 48 HBeAg positive (NC=M) 
*HBV DNA < LOQ (0.7 MEq/ml) by bDNA assay, negative HBeAg, normal ALT, for HBeAg neg maintenance of HBeAg 
neg status  
-3.75 
-4.46 
-5.66 
4 (9) 
12 (26) 
3/32 (9) 
3/32 (9) 
1/32 (3) 
17/29 (59) 
17/29 (59) 
-4.21 
-5.06 
-5.01 
7 (17) 
11 (26) 
3/27 (11) 
3/27 (11) 
1/27 (4) 
11/28 (39) 
19/28 (68) 
-0.95 
-1.37 
-1.84 
1/45 (2) 
2 (4) 
2/32 (6) 
3/32 (9) 
2/32 (6) 
7/33 (21) 
2/33 (6) 
0 
2 (4) 
0 
0 
0 
12/30 (40) 
14/30 (47) 
8/42 (19) 
12/42 (29) 
10/14 (71) 
2/34 (8) 
11/47 (23) 
9/47 (19) 
6/23 (46) 
3/27 (11) 
3/45 (7) 
2/45 (4) 
0 
2/18 (11) 
4/47 (9) 
6/47 (13) 
6/14 (43) 
0 
A strong dose response of ETV was demonstrated at week 24 in analyses of HBV DNA reduction by 
PCR assay and the primary endpoint (HBV DNA <LOQ by bDNA assay). The 1.0 mg dose proved to 
be  superior  to  the  0.5  mg  dose  with  respect  to  the  primary  endpoint  (p<0.01).  With  regard  to  HBV 
DNA reduction by PCR at Week 24, the difference estimate between the 1.0 and 0.5 mg doses was  
-0.63 log10 and not significant (p=0.1). With respect to the secondary endpoints, the 1.0 mg produced 
more  consistent  results  than  the  0.5  mg,  although  differences  between  dose  groups  were  not  always 
apparent. It is to be noted that ETV 1.0 mg seemed to be efficacious in suppressing HBV DNA across 
all prognostic and demographic subgroups. With respect to ALT normalisation, the 1.0 mg group had 
the greatest response at Week 48 (68%). Despite good viral suppression, few patients achieved HBeAg 
loss  after  48  weeks  of  therapy.  Due  to  this  fact,  a  limited  number  of  subjects  achieved  complete 
response at Week 48, with higher proportion in the 1.0 mg group.  
No  apparent  dose  response  relationship  was  observed  with  respect  to  safety  issue.  Consequently, 
1.0 mg was chosen for the main study in LVD refractory patients.  
• 
Main study(ies)   
Studies  in  nucleoside  naïve  patients:  study  AI463022  (HBeAg  positive)  and  AI463027  (HBeAg 
negative) 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
All study subjects had documented chronic hepatitis B (i.e. detectable HBsAg > 6 months), detectable 
HBV  DNA  and  compensated  liver  disease.  An  overview  of  the  inclusion  criteria  is  presented  in 
table 5.  Nucleoside-naïve  subjects  were  defined  as  those  that  had  received  <12  weeks  of  prior 
nucleos(t)ides,  and  the  last  dose  of  any  prior  therapy  was  to  be  administered  >24  weeks  prior  to 
randomisation. 
21/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Eligibility criteria 
Eligibility criterion 
Nucleoside-
naive 
022 
+ 
027 
+ 
Males and females > 16 years with history of chronic hepatitis B 
HBV viraemia 
HBV DNA >0.7 MEq/ml bDNA or >1.5x106copies/ml by PCR  >4 weeks prior to screening  + 
HBV DNA >0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA or  >105 copies/ml by PCR  >2 weeks prior to screening 
- 
+ 
HBV DNA > 3.0 MEq/ml by bDNA at screening 
- 
HBV DNA > 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA at screening 
HBV DNA > 10  MEq/ml by bDNA at screening 
- 
HBV serology 
Detectable HBsAg >6 months or detectable HBsAg <6 months and neg IgM anti HBc and 
confirmation of chronic hepatitis on liver biopsy  
HBeAg positive at screening and at least once  >4 weeks prior to screening 
HBeAg neg/anti HBe pos at screening and at least once >4 weeks prior to screening 
HBeAg could be positive or negative at screening 
ALT 
ALT 1.3 to 10xULN at screening and at least once >12 weeks prior to screening 
ALT and AST normal to <10 x ULN at screening 
Liver Biopsy 
Evidence of chronic hepatitis on biopsy performed <52 weeks prior to randomisation 
+ 
- 
- 
+ 
- 
+ 
+ 
- 
+ 
- 
+ 
- 
+ 
- 
+ 
- 
+ 
- 
+ 
Among exclusion criteria, there was co-infection with HIV, HCV or HDV. 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised to receive entecavir (ETV) 0.5 mg once daily (QD) or to lamivudine (LVD) 
100 mg QD.  
All studies had an initial period of 52-week blinded dosing, (Year 1) followed by an extended blinded 
dosing period (Year 2) for those who were partial responders at week 52 (see table 6 for the definition 
of response), and a 24-week post-dosing follow-up period. The initial assessment of the response to 
therapy  was  made  at  Week  48.  The  patient  management  decisions  at  Week  52  were  based  on  the 
treatment response at Week 48.  
- 
- 
In  case  of  Complete  Virologic  Response  patients  were  to  stop  treatment  and  be  followed  off 
treatment for 24 weeks for safety and sustained response.  
In case of Partial virologic Response patients were to continue blinded treatment until Complete 
Response was achieved or until Week 96, whichever occurred first.  
-  Virologic  Nonresponders  were  to  discontinue  blinded  therapy  and  begin  appropriate  therapy 
recommended  by  their  physician  or  enrol  in  a  separate  open-label  rollover  protocol  or  early 
access  program.  Subjects  electing  not  to  enrol  in  another  study  were  to  be  followed  for  safety 
every 4 weeks for 24 weeks in the current study after discontinuation of study therapy. 
-  Relapse: for Partial Virologic Responders whose HBV DNA by bDNA assay became detectable 
during the second year of treatment and subjects who relapse after Complete virologic Response  
-  Rebound: virologic Rebound, defined as confirmed > 1-log10 increase from nadir in HBV bDNA 
on  treatment.  Samples  from  subjects  who  had  virologic  rebound  were  submitted  for  genotypic 
and phenotypic analyses to identify HBV DNA mutations associated with reduced susceptibility 
to study therapy.  
22/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Response definitions  
Term 
Complete response 
Definition 
HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA and loss of HBeAg 
Composite response 
Partial response  
Virologic-only response  
Non-response  
HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA and ALT < 1.25 x ULN 
HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA but HBeAg +  
HBV DNA  0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA but ALT ≥1.25x ULN  
HBV DNA ≥ 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA 
Study 
022 
027  
022. 
027 
022, 027 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  both  studies  was  to  compare  the  efficacy  of  48-week  treatment  course  of 
entecavir  0.5  mg  once  daily  versus  lamivudine  100  mg  daily  in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B 
with compensated liver disease. 
Secondary objectives included assessment of: 
•  Sustained response and relapse rate during 24 week off-treatment follow-up of patients with 
composite/complete response at week 48 
•  96-week efficacy in patients with partial response continuing blinded therapy 
•  48- and 96-week safety 
•  Emergence of drug-resistant virus 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In both studies, the primary efficacy measure was the proportion of subjects in each treatment group 
who  achieved  histological 
the  Knodell 
necroinflammatory score with no worsening of fibrosis (worsening: ≥ 1-point increase in the Knodell 
fibrosis score) at the Week 48 liver biopsy compared to baseline. 
improvement  defined  as  ≥  2-point  decrease 
in 
Secondary efficacy endpoints at Week 48 were: 
Further assessment of histological response 
- Proportions of patients with improvement in hepatic fibrosis (> 1 point decrease from baseline) using 
the Ishak scoring system,  
-  Reduction  from  baseline  in  hepatic  covalently  closed  circular  DNA  (cccDNA),  total  hepatic  HBV 
DNA, hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg) and hepatic hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) 
Virological response  
- Proportions of patients with HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml (700 000 copies/ml) by bDNA assay 
- Proportions of patients with HBV DNA < 400 copies/ml by PCR assay (post hoc: <200 copies/ml, 
later  amended  as  300  copies/ml  following  a  revision  of  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  by  the 
manufacturer)  
- Mean log10 reduction in HBV DNA levels from baseline by PCR assay 
Serological response (study 022 only) 
- Proportions of patients with loss of HBeAg in subjects with positive e antigen prior to treatment 
- Proportions of patients with seroconversion (HBeAg → anti-HBe) 
- Proportions of patients with loss of HBsAg 
Biochemical response 
- Proportions of patients with normalization of serum ALT (<1.25 x ULN) at week 48, later changed 
to <1.0 x ULN threshold 
Combined/composite endpoints (patient management endpoints) 
- Proportion of patients with complete virological response  
- Proportion of patients with complete virological response plus normalization of ALT 
23/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Proportion of patients with partial virological response  
- Proportion of subjects who demonstrated Response for the composite endpoint (study 027)  
HBV resistance 
-  Genotypic and phenotypic analyses in patients with virologic rebound ( >1-log10 increase in HBV 
DNA  from  nadir,  as  determined  by  2  sequential  HBV  DNA  by  bDNA  assays  during  blinded 
treatment)  
for  223  randomly  selected  entecavir-treated  subjects,  a  genotypic  screening  of  samples  was 
performed to monitor the appearance of genotypic changes (022) 
 In study 027 random selected samples were collected for genotypic and phenotypic analyses 
- 
- 
Sample size 
In both studies, a 2-stage evaluation was planned for assessment of the primary endpoint. In the first 
stage,  non-inferiority  of  ETV  to  LVD  was  tested  (the  boundary  for  the  lower  limit  of  the  95% 
confidence interval (CI) for the difference in proportions (ETV - LVD) was -10%). The target sample 
size  was  adequately  calculated.  For  the  second  stage,  provided  non-inferiority  was  established,  a 
second test for superiority was to be conducted by checking if the lower limit of the 95% confidence 
interval was greater than zero.  
Randomisation 
Patients were randomised 1:1 to entecavir or lamivudine. A randomisation block design stratified by 
study site was used. 
Blinding (masking) 
The  study  was  adequately  blinded.  A  central  pathologist  performed  a  blinded  assessment  of  liver 
histology (sequence-blinded and treatment-blinded biopsy pairs).  
Statistical methods 
The  Intention  to  Treat  (ITT)  efficacy  data  set  include  data  collected  on  treated  subjects  who  were 
defined as randomised subjects treated with at least 1 dose of study therapy, entecavir or lamivudine. 
Analyses of efficacy endpoints focused on treated subjects who were evaluable for response, i.e. had 
measurements at baseline and at the Week 48 visit. Two methods were used for handling missing data: 
Non-Completer=Failure  (NC=F),  where  subjects  with  missing  or  inadequate  Week  48  data  were 
treated as failures (modified ITT) and Non-Completer=Missing (NC=M), where subjects with missing 
Week 48 data were excluded from the analysis. 
RESULTS 
At  the  time  of  the  submission  of  the  application,  both  studies  had  completed  48 weeks of treatment 
and data on all these patients were the basis for the efficacy assessment. Supplementary data on the 
long  term  efficacy  and  safety  (Week  96)  were  submitted,  during  the  procedure,  including  data  on 
sustained response rates after a 24-week off-treatment period. 
Participant flow 
The disposition of patients is presented in table 7: Overall a large proportion of patients completed 48 
weeks period. 
24/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Disposition of patients  
Parameter 
Study 022 (HBeAg pos) 
Total 
661 (92%) 
48 
least 
48 (7) 
before 
n (%) 
715 
709 
Disposition 
N randomised 
Received  at 
one dose (ITT) 
Completed 
weeks 
Discont 
week 48  
Reasons for discontinuation 
10 (1) 
Adverse event 
11 (2%)  
Withdrew consent 
11 (2) 
Lost to FU 
6 (<1) 
Non-compliance 
4 (<1) 
Pregnancy 
Death 
2 (<1) 
Lack of efficacy 
Other 
Completed 
year of dosing 
Continued  to  2nd 
year 
Did  not  complete 
2nd year of dosing 
Treatment 
/lack of efficacy 
Adverse event 
Completed 
year of dosing 
4 (1) 
661 (92) 
failure 
first 
2nd 
68 (10%) 
89 (12%) 
1 (<1%) 
354 (50%) 
443 (62%) 
ETV 
0.5mg 
n (%) 
357 
354 
LDV 
100mg 
n (%) 
358 
355  
Study 027(HBeAg neg) 
Total 
ETV 
0.5mg 
n (%) 
331 
325 
LDV 
100mg 
n (%) 
317 
313 
n (%) 
648 
638 
340 (95%) 
321 (90% 
607 (94%) 
311 (94%) 
296 (93%) 
14 (4) 
34 (9) 
31 (5%) 
14 (4%) 
17 (5%) 
1 (1) 
6 (2) 
3 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
0 
8 (2) 
5 (1) 
8 (2) 
4 (1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
0 
340 (95) 
4 (1) 
321 (90) 
15 (2) 
8 (1) 
2 (<1) 
4 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
0 
14 (2) 
607 (94) 
6 (2) 
4 (1) 
0 
2(<1) 
0 
0 
9 (3) 
4 (1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
0 
311()4) 
296 (93) 
253 (71%) 
190 (53%) 
105(16%) 
46 (14%) 
59 (19%) 
22 (6%) 
67 (19%) 
19 (3 %) 
7 (2%) 
12 (4 %) 
7 (2%) 
61 (17%) 
9 (1 %) 
0 
9 (3%) 
0 
 231 (65%) 
1 (<1%) 
 123 (34%) 
82 (13%) 
38 (11%) 
44 (14%) 
Baseline data 
Patients were well balanced between treatment groups for baseline HBV disease characteristics (table 
8). 
Table 8: Main baseline characteristics  
Study 022 
HBeAg positive 
ETV n=354 
LVD n=355 
Study 027 
HBeAg negative 
ETV n=325 
LVD 
n=313 
35 
33 
274 (77) 
80 (23) 
Age years 
Mean  
Median 
Gender  n (%) 
Male 
Female  
Race  n (%) 
Caucasian 
Asian  
Black  
Other) 
Region n (%) 
Europe 
Asia 
N (%) available baseline 
biopsy 
329 (93) 
Knodell Necroinflammatory  score 
7.8 (2.98) 
Mean  (SD) 
9.0 
median 
314  
Proportion scores >2 
(89%) 
140 (40) 
204 (58) 
8 (2) 
2 (<1) 
84 (24) 
172 (49) 
Knodell Fibrosis scores 
mean  (SD) 
median 
Cirrhosis n (%) 
1.7 (1.11) 
1.0 
25 (7) 
35 
32 
261 (74) 
94 (26) 
141 (40) 
202 (57) 
8 (2) 
4 (1) 
88 (25) 
167 (47) 
44  
45 
248 (76) 
77 (24%) 
193 (59) 
122 (38) 
8 (2) 
2 (<1) 
156 (48) 
106 (33) 
44 
45 
236 (75) 
77 (25) 
176 (56) 
129 (41) 
7 (2) 
1 (<1) 
148 (47) 
104 (33) 
330 (93) 
303 (93) 
293 (93) 
7.7 (2.99) 
8.0 
314  
(88%) 
1.7 (1.11) 
1.0 
27 (8) 
7.7(2.76) 
8.0 
287 
(92%) 
1.9(1.14) 
1.0 
28 (9) 
8.0 (2.75) 
9.0 
296 
(91%) 
1.9  (1.11) 
1.0 
19 (6) 
25/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ishak fibrosis scores 
mean (SD) 
median 
Cirrhosis n (%) 
HBV DNA bDNA 
mean (SD) 
median 
HBV DNA PCR 
mean  
median 
HBV subtypes 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
ALT 
mean (SD) 
median 
range 
Prior therapy 
Interferon 
LDV/ Famciclovir  
2.3 (1.27) 
2.0 
11 (3) 
2.3 (1.29) 
2.0 
11 (3) 
2.4  (1.18) 
2.0 
5 (2) 
2.5(1.29) 
2.0 
10 (3) 
2.56 
(1.05)  
2.79 
2.61  (1.025) 
2.84 
1.24  
(0.96) 
1.20 
1.23 (1.01)  
1.06  
9.62 (2.0) 
9.28 
9.69 (1.98) 
9.32 
7.60 (1.75) 
7.51 
7.55(1.7)  
7.51 
98 (27) 
68 (19) 
111 (31) 
41 (11) 
2 (<1) 
20 (6) 
140.5  
102.0 
20-915 
45 (13) 
10 (3) 
104 (29) 
78 (22) 
90 (25) 
51 (14) 
0 
13 (3) 
146.3  
103.0 
19-1106 
45 (13) 
10 (3) 
34 (10) 
48 (14) 
58 (18) 
161 (48) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
141.0  
106.0 
19-727 
42 (13) 
9 (3) 
33 (11) 
61 (19) 
51 (16) 
143 (43) 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
142.5  
105.0 
7-878 
37 (12) 
12 (4) 
•  Results of Study AI463022- HBeAg positive patients  
Efficacy analyses at Week 48 
Entecavir was superior to lamivudine for the proportion of treated subjects demonstrating histological 
improvement at the Week 48 biopsy using the NC=F method and non-inferior using NC=M method as 
shown in table 9.  
Table 9: Histological improvement at week 48, treated subjects with histology pairs  
Primary endpoint 
Histological improvement NC=F 
Histological improvement NC=M 
ETV 
(n=354) 
226/314 (72%) 
226/292 (77%) 
LVD 
(n=355) 
195/314 (62%) 
195/269 (72%) 
estimates 
Difference 
LVD] (95%CI) 
9.9 (2.6, 17.2)    p=0.0085 
4.9 (-2.3,12.1)    p=0.191 
[ETV-
Entecavir was non-inferior to lamivudine for the proportion of subjects demonstrating improvement in 
the  Ishak  fibrosis  score  at  the  Week  48  biopsy  using  the  NC  =  F  method,  with  39%  in  ETV  group 
versus 35% in LVD (difference estimate [ETV-LVD] = 3.2; 95% CI [-4.4, 10.7]; p = 0.41). 8 % in the 
entecavir  group  compared  to  5  %  in  the  lamivudine  group  had  a  worsening  Ishak  fibrosis  scores  at 
Week 48. 
The  mean  change  from  baseline  in  hepatic  HBV  cccDNA  (log10  copies/HGEq)  was  -0.9  log10 
copies/HGEq for entecavir and -0.7 log10 copies/HGEq for lamivudine. The difference estimate (ETV-
LVD)  for  hepatic  cccDNA  reduction  adjusted  for  baseline  hepatic  cccDNA  level  was  -0.2  log10 
copies/HGEq  (95%  CI  [-0.3,  -0.1],  p  =  0.0033).  Results  favoured  entecavir  for  the  reduction  from 
baseline in total hepatic HBV DNA at Week 48 (95% CI [-0.6, -0.3], p < 0.0001).  
The entecavir and lamivudine groups were similar for improvement (≥1-point decrease from baseline) 
with  respect  to  the  hepatic  antigen  endpoints:  hepatic  nuclear  HBcAg,  hepatic  cytoplasmic  HBcAg, 
and hepatic HBsAg. 
Table  10  provides  a  summary  of  the  secondary  endpoints  for  antiviral  activity,  immunologic  and 
biochemical responses. 
26/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Summary of secondary endpoints at week 48 (NC=F)  
Secondary endpoint 
ETV (n=354)  LVD 
HBV DNA <0.7 MEQ/ml by bDNA assay 
Mean change by PCR (log10 copies/ml)* 
Median change by PCR 
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
HBV < 300 copies/ml 
Loss of HBeAG 
Seroconversion 
ALT normalisation (< 1.0 x ULN) 
Patient management endpoints  
    Complete virological response 
    Partial virological response 
    Virological non-response 
     Missing Week 48 data 
Complete response + ALT normalisation 
* limit of quantitation 300 copies/ml 
322 (91%) 
- 
6.86 
- 6.78 
246 (69%) 
236 (67 %) 
78 (22%) 
74 (21%) 
242 (68 %) 
74 (21%) 
247 (70%) 
19 (5%) 
14 (4%) 
65 (18%) 
(n=355) 
232 (65%) 
- 5.39 
-5.60 
135 (38%) 
129 (36 %) 
70 (20%) 
64 (18%) 
213 (60 %) 
67 (19%) 
165 (46%) 
95 (26%) 
29 (8%) 
64 (18%) 
Difference estimates  
[ETV-LVD] (95%CI) 
25.6 (19.8, 31.4)   p<0.0001 
1.5 (-1.8, -1.3) p< 0.0001 
31.5 (24.5, 38.4)   p<0.0001 
30.3 (23.3, 37.3)   p < 0.0001 
2.3 ( -3.7, 8.3)      p=0.45 
2.9 (-2.9, 8.7)       p=0.33 
8.4 (1.3, 15.4) p = 0.0202 
0.5 (-5.3, 6.0) p=0.91 
Entecavir  was  shown  to  be  non-inferior  or  superior  to  lamivudine  with  respect  to  histological, 
virological,  serological  and  biochemical  response  at  Week  48.  Despite  greater  antiviral  potency  of 
ETV,  the  proportion  of  complete  virological  responders,  i.e.  with  HBeAg  loss,  was  low  in  both 
treatment  groups.  Thus  at  week  48,  the  more  potent  antiviral  activity  of  ETV  did  not  have  any 
implications  on  treatment  when  compared  to  LVD.  However  there  were  higher  numbers  of  ETV 
treated subjects than LVD with partial virological response, enabling more subjects to continue for a 
second year of therapy. 
Efficacy results at Week 96 
Table 11: Response status through Year 2 – treated subjects 
First year of treatment 
Complete response* after Year 1 
Virological Only responder at Year 1 
Non-responder at Year 1 
ETV 
n=354  
74 (21%) 
247 (70%) 
19 (5%) 
ETV 
n=243 
37 (15%) 
18 (7%) 
19 (8%) 
198 (81%) 
8 (3%) 
111 (31%) 
15% 
11% 
79% 
LVD 
n =355 
67 (19%) 
165 (46%) 
94 (26%) 
LVD 
n =164 
26 (16%) 
16 (10%) 
10 (6%) 
85 (52%) 
53 (32%) 
93 (26%) 
18% 
13% 
68% 
Second Year of treatment 
Complete response at Year 2 EOD** 
       <  Week 96 
       >=Week 96 
Virological only responder at Year 2 EOD 
Non-responder at Year 2 EOD 
Total responder (Week 48 + Week 96) 
Loss of HBeAg during the 2nd year at EOD 
Seroconversion during the 2nd year at EOD 
ALT normalisation 
Cumulative responses through Year 2  
Cumulative HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml 
Cumulative HBV DNA <300 copies/ml  
Mean change from baseline (log10 copies/ml) at Year 2 EOD 
Cumulative HBeAg loss at Year 2 EOD 
Cumulative confirmed HBeAg seroconversion  EOD 
Cumulative ALT normalisation <1.0 x ULN EOD 
Cumulative ALT normalisation <1.25 x ULN EOD 
Cumulative loss of HBsAg 
Cumulative HBsAg seroconversion 
* Complete Responder = HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml and loss of HBeAg. **EOD = end of dosing 
97% 
80% 
-7.09 
33% 
31% 
78% 
86% 
18 (5%) 
6 (2%) 
68% 
39% 
-4.85 
28% 
25% 
61% 
70% 
10 (3%) 
8 (2%) 
Histological response was only evaluated in less than 10% of patients at Week 96 and data suggested 
improvement of fibrosis during the 2nd year. The total complete response rate at Week 96 was 31% for 
ETV  treatment  and  26%  for  the  LVD  treatment  group.  Thus,  ETV  patients  with  a  partial  response 
experienced incremental benefit during the second year of treatment, although the cumulative HBeAg 
27/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
seroconversion rate was relatively low (31% Year 2 vs 21% Year 1) and not different from LVD. No 
resistance development was detected for up to 96 weeks of ETV therapy. 
Sustained response outcome 
The sustained response rate 6 months after discontinuation of treatment is presented in table 12 for the 
total number of entecavir-treated responders (111) and lamivudine-treated responders (93).  
Table 12: Sustained responses outcome at 24 weeks off treatment 
Sustained complete response 
Failures with loss of response 
       Re-emergence of HBeAg 
       HBV DNA >0.7MEq/ml and re-emerg. of HBeAg  
Sustained complete response and ALT < 1.0 x ULN 
Sustained complete response and ALT <1.25 x ULN 
ETV 
n=111 
83 (75%) 
24 (22%) 
16 (67%) 
4 (17%) 
69 (56%) 
75 (64%) 
LVD 
n=93 
68 (73%) 
22 (24%) 
4 (18%) 
17 (77%) 
49 (55%) 
57 (59%) 
The highest sustained response rate was observed among subjects that responded early (< 54 weeks). 
Preliminary  responder  analysis  at  Week  48  off-treatment  included  74  (89%)  ETV  patients  and  67 
LVD patients. In the ETV group, 42 (57%) patients maintained their response, 21 (28%) still had an 
HBV DNA level <300 copies/ml. Twenty-six (25%) patients had relapsed, 14 with HBV DNA levels 
>105  copies/ml  and/or  seroreversion  (HBeAg+)  and  12  had  resumed  anti-HBV  therapy.  Data  were 
missing on 13 (18%) ETV patients. For LVD only 33% of subjects maintained a complete response. 
However, data were missing on 17/67 (25%) patients. 
•  Results of Study AI463027- HBeAg negative patients  
Efficacy analyses at week 48 
Entecavir was superior to lamivudine for the proportion of treated subjects demonstrating histological 
improvement at the Week 48 biopsy using both the NC=F and NC=M methods (see table 13).  
Table 13: Histological improvement at week 48, treated subjects with histology pairs  
Primary endpoint 
Histological improvement NC=F 
Histological improvement NC=M 
ETV 
(n=325) 
208/296 (70%) 
208/265 (78%) 
LVD 
(n=313) 
174 /287(61%) 
174/250 (70%) 
Difference estimates  
[ETV-LVD] (95%CI) 
9.6 (2.0, 17.3)    p=0.0143 
8.9 (-2.3,12.1)    p=0.0212 
Entecavir  was  non-inferior  to  lamivudine  for  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  demonstrated 
improvement in hepatic fibrosis using Ishak score at Week 48. The proportions were 36% and 38%, 
respectively (NC = F method) (difference estimate [ETV-LVD] = -1.8; 95% CI –9.7, 6.0]; p = 0.65). 
12% in the entecavir group compared to 15 % in the lamivudine group had a worsening Ishak fibrosis 
scores at Week 48. 
The entecavir and lamivudine groups showed reductions from baseline at Week 48 for the following 
hepatic endpoints: 
•  HBV  cccDNA  (mean  change:  -0.5  log10  copies/HGEq  for  both  groups;  95%  CI  [-0.2,  0.1];  
p = 0.50) 
•  Total hepatic HBV DNA (mean change: entecavir -1.5 log10 copies/HGEq; lamivudine - 1.4 log10 
copies/HGEq; 95% CI [-0.2, 0.0]; p = 0.07) 
•  Loss of HBsAg through week 48: only one subject in each group has loss of HBsAg at week 48. 
Table  14  provides  a  summary  of  the  secondary  endpoints  for  antiviral  activity,  immunologic  and 
biochemical responses. 
28/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14: Summary of secondary endpoints at week 48 (NC=F)  
Secondary endpoint 
ETV (n=325)  LVD (n=313)  Difference 
estimates 
[ETV-
309 (95%) 
- 5.04 
297 (91%) 
293 (90%) 
253 (78%) 
HBD DNA <0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA assay 
Mean change HBV DNA by PCR log10 * 
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
HBV DNA <300 copies/ml 
ALT normalisation (< 1 xULN) 
Patient management endpoints  
    Complete virological response** 
    Virologic-only response 
    Virologic non-response 
     Missing Week 48 data 
* limit of quantitation 300 copies/ml **Composite endpoint: HBV DNA<0.7 MEq/ml +ALT normalisation (<1.25xULN) 
279 (89%) 
- 4.53 
230 (73%) 
225 (72%) 
222 (71%) 
245 (78%) 
34 (11%) 
18 (6%) 
16 (5%) 
275 (85%) 
34 (10%) 
3 (<1%) 
13 (4%) 
LVD] (95%CI) 
5.9 (1.8, 10.1)     p<0.0053 
- 0.43 (-0.6, -0.26) p < 0.0001 
17.9 (12.1, 23.7)  p<0.0001 
18.3 (12.3, 24.2) p < 0.0001 
6.9 (0.2, 13.7) p = 0.0451 
6.4  (0.3, 12.4)      p=0.041 
ETV was superior to LVD for almost all endpoints in this difficult-to-treat population. No resistance 
mutation  associated  with  ETV  was  detected  in  this  study  and  no  ETV  patients  experienced  viral 
breakthrough by PCR assay. 
Efficacy results at Week 96 
Composite responders* after Year 1 
Virological Only responder at Year 1 
Non-responder at Year 1 
Virologic-Only responder continuing 2nd year of dosing 
Table 15: Response status through Year 2 – treated subjects 
ETV 
First year of treatment 
n=325  
275 (85%) 
34 (10%) 
3 (<1%) 
ETV 
n=26 
11 (42%) 
15 (58%) 
0 
286/325 (88%) 
N=325 
92% 
5.14 
89% 
1 (<1%) 
0 
Composite responders at EOD 
Virologic-Only Responder at EOD 
Non responder at EOD 
Total rate of composite responders (W48+W96) 
Cumulative responses through Year 2 
Cumulative HBV DNA <300 copies/ml at EOD 
Mean change from BL (log10 copies/ml) at Year 2 EOD 
Cumulative ALT normalisation <1.0 x ULN EOD 
Cumulative loss of HBsAg 
Cumulative HBsAg seroconversion 
* Composite Responder = HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml and ALT<1.25 x ULN. 
LVD 
n =313 
245 (78%) 
34 (11%) 
18 (6%) 
LVD 
n=28 
8 (29%) 
15 (54%) 
5 (18%) 
253/313 (81%) 
N=313 
72% 
4.13 
84% 
2 (<1%) 
1 (<1%) 
Continued treatment with ETV for up to 2 years appeared to result in maintenance of clinical benefit. 
The total rate of treatment response for both years was 88% (286/325) for the ETV group versus 81% 
(253/313)  for  the  LVD  group.  No  resistance  development  was  detected  for  up  to  96  weeks  of  ETV 
therapy. 
Sustained response outcome 
At Week 24 off-treatment, 46% of ETV-treated responders maintained their response versus 31% for 
LVD. At Week 48 these proportions dropped to 17% for ETV and 12% for LVD. An assessment of 
the reasons for failure suggested that many patients who documented failure at Week 24 off-treatment 
had started alternate HBV therapy by Week 48 of follow-up. Missing data in subjects who were lost to 
follow-up  account  for  an  increasingly  large  minority  of  patients  at  Week  48  off-treatment:  20%  for 
ETV versus 12% for LVD.  
The  analysis  by  categories  of  HBV  DNA demonstrated that even though more ETV-treated patients 
had an HBV DNA <104 copies/ml at Week 24 off-treatment (27%) as compared with LVD (18%), by 
48  weeks  off-treatment  these  proportions  decreased  to  approximately  10%  in  both  treatment  arms 
(11% for ETV; 9% for LVD). Therefore, although the HBV DNA of ETV-treated patients rebounds 
more slowly off-treatment than does the HBV DNA of LVD-treated patients, at 1 year off-treatment 
both treatment groups have comparable distributions of HBV DNA. 
29/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Study in lamivudine refractory patients: study AI463026  
In  addition  to  the  results  from  the  phase  II  study  AI463014  already  presented  in  the  dose  ranging 
section of this document, a confirmatory study (026) was conducted. 
Study participants 
LVD-refractory  subjects  were  patients  with  incomplete  response  to  lamivudine;  defined  as:  i) 
persistently detectable HBV DNA by bDNA assay after at least 36 weeks of lamivudine therapy, or ii) 
breakthrough viraemia while on lamivudine, or iii) recurrence of HBV viraemia following lamivudine 
discontinuation  which  persisted  despite  resuming  lamivudine  or  documented  lamivudine-resistant 
(LVDR) mutation and HBV viraemia while on lamivudine.  
Study Participants  
All study subjects had documented chronic hepatitis B (i.e. detectable HBsAg > 6 months), detectable 
HBV DNA and compensated liver disease (see table 16 for inclusion criteria). 
Table 16: Eligibility criteria 
Eligibility criterion 
Males and females > 16 years with history of chronic hepatitis B 
HBV  DNA  >0.7  MEq/ml  bDNA  or  >1.5x106copies/ml  by  PCR    >4  weeks 
prior to screening 
HBV DNA > 3.0 MEq/ml by bDNA at screening 
Detectable  HBsAg  >6  months  or  detectable  HBsAg  <6  months  and neg IgM 
anti HBc and confirmation of chronic hepatitis on liver biopsy  
HBeAg positive at screening and at least once  >4 weeks prior to screening 
ALT  1.3  to  10xULN  at  screening  and  at  least  once  >12  weeks  prior  to 
screening 
Evidence  of  chronic  hepatitis  on  biopsy  performed  <52  weeks  prior  to 
randomisation 
LVD therapy > 24 weeks (in 014) or >36 weeks  (in 026) or documented  
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
Among exclusion criteria, there were co-infection with HIV, HCV and HDV and decompensated liver 
function. 
Treatments 
Subjects received either ETV 1.0 mg QD or continued LVD 100 mg QD. 
The  study  had  an  initial  period  of  blinded  dosing  (Year  1)  followed  by  an  extended  blinded  dosing 
period (Year 2), and a 24-week post-dosing follow-up period. The initial assessment of the response to 
therapy was made at week 48. 
Patient management decisions at Week 52 were based on the treatment response at Week 48. Subjects 
who demonstrated a complete/composite response (HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA and loss of 
HBeAg)  were  to  stop  therapy  and  be  followed  off-treatment  for  up  to  24  weeks  to  assess  sustained 
response and post-dosing safety. Subjects who demonstrated a partial/virological-only response (HBV 
DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA but HBeAg +) were to continue blinded therapy up to Week 96.  
No response was defined as HBV DNA ≥ 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to compare the efficacy of a 48-week treatment course of entecavir 1 mg 
once daily versus lamivudine 100 mg daily in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B with compensated 
liver disease. 
Secondary objectives included assessment of: 
30/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Sustained response and relapse rate during 24 week off-treatment follow-up of patients with 
composite/complete response at week 48 
•  96-week efficacy in patients with partial response continuing blinded therapy 
•  48- and 96-week safety 
•  Emergence of drug-resistant virus 
Outcomes/endpoints 
There were 2 co-primary endpoints: 
•  Histologic Improvement:  
the  proportion  of  subjects  at  Week  48  in  each  treatment  group  with  Histologic  Improvement  (a  >2-
point  decrease  from  baseline  in  Knodell  necroinflammatory  score)  and  no  worsening  of  fibrosis 
(worsening: > 1 point increase from baseline in the Knodell fibrosis score) 
•  Composite Endpoint:  
the proportion of subjects at Week 48 in each treatment group with undetectable HBV DNA by bDNA 
assay (< 0.7 MEq/ml) and normalization of serum ALT (< 1.25 × ULN). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints at Week 48 included: 
Further assessment of histological response 
- Proportion of patients with improvement in hepatic fibrosis using the Ishak scoring system,  
-  Reduction  from  baseline  in  hepatic  covalently  closed  circular  DNA  (cccDNA),  total  hepatic  HBV 
DNA, hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg) and hepatic hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) 
Virological response (week 24 study 014) 
- Proportion of patients with HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml (700 000 copies/ml) by bDNA assay 
-  Proportion  of  patients  with  HBV  DNA  <  400  copies/ml  by  PCR  assay  (post  hoc:  <200  copies/ml 
assay, later amended as 300 copies/ml following a revision of the lower limit of quantification by the 
manufacturer).  
- Mean log10 reduction in HBV dNA levels from baseline by PCR assay 
Serological response 
- Proportion of patients with loss of HBeAg in subjects with positive e antigen prior to treatment 
- Proportion of patients with seroconversion (HBeAg → anti-HBe) 
Biochemical response 
-  Proportions  of  patients  with  normalization  of  serum  ALT  (<1.25  x  ULN),  later  changed  to  <1.0  x 
ULN threshold 
Combined endpoints (patient management endpoints) 
-  Proportion of patients with complete virological response  
-  Proportion of patients with complete virological response plus normalisation of ALT 
-  Proportion of patients with partial virological response  
Sustained response 
Proportions of patients with sustained virological, serological and biochemical response during 24 off-
treatment follow-up 
HBV resistance 
-  Genotypic  and  phenotypic  analyses  in  patients  with  virologic  rebound  ( >1-log10  increase  in  HBV 
DNA  from  nadir,  as  determined  by  2  sequential  HBV  DNA  by  bDNA  assays  during  blinded 
treatment)  
- For all subjects frozen serum sample from Day 1 for genotyping and for identifying viral mutations 
in the DNA polymerase gene  
Sample size 
31/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  superiority  test  was  performed  separately  for  the  2  different  primary  endpoints.  A  Bonferroni 
adjustment  was  applied  for  testing  superiority,  with  an  overall  significant  level  of  2.5%  for  each 
endpoint. ETV was considered to be superior to LVD if the lower limit of the 97.5% CI was greater 
then zero. The target sample size was adequately calculated. 
Randomisation 
Eligible  subjects  were  randomised  (1:1)  in  a  double-blind  manner  to  receive  either  entecavir  or 
lamivudine. A randomisation block design stratified by study site was used. 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was adequately blinded. A central pathologist read performed a blinded assessment of liver 
histology (sequence-blinded and treatment-blinded biopsy pairs).  
Statistical methods 
Analyses of efficacy endpoints focused on treated subjects who were evaluable for response, i.e. had 
measurements at baseline and at the Week 48 visit. Two methods were used for handling missing data: 
Non-Completer=Failure  (NC=F),  where  subjects  with  missing  or  inadequate  Week  48  data  were 
treated as failures (modified ITT) and Non-Completer=Missing (NC=M), where subjects with missing 
Week 48 data were excluded from the analysis. 
RESULTS 
At the time of the submission of the application, study had completed 48 weeks of treatment and data 
on all these patients were the basis for the efficacy assessment. Supplementary data on the long term 
efficacy  and  safety  (Week  96)  were  submitted,  during  the  procedure,  including  data  on  sustained 
response rates after a 24-week off-treatment period. 
Participant flow 
The disposition of patients is presented in table 17. Overall a large proportion of patients completed 48 
weeks period. 
32/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: Disposition of patients  
Parameter 
Total 
n (%) 
293 
286 (98%) 
259 (88%) 
27 (9) 
9 (3) 
7 (2) 
3 (1) 
4 (1) 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
259 (88) 
115 (41%) 
33 (11%) 
28(10%) 
for 
Disposition 
N randomised 
Received  at  least  one  dose 
(ITT) 
Completed 48 weeks 
Discont before week 48  
Reasons 
discontinuation 
Adverse event 
Withdrew consent 
Lost to FU 
Non-compliance 
Pregnancy 
Death 
Lack of efficacy 
Other 
Completed  first  year  of 
dosing  
Continued to 2nd year 
Did  not  complete  2nd  year 
of dosing 
       Treatment  failure  /lack 
of efficacy 
Completed  2nd  year  of 
dosing 
24  week 
Entered  24-week  Follow-
up 
Discontinued 
follow-up 
   Treatment failure /lack of 
efficacy 
   Adverse event 
Completed 
follow-up 
24  week 
ETV 1.0mg 
n (%) 
147 
141 (96 %) 
133 (90%) 
8 (5) 
1 (<1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
3 (2) 
0 
0 
133 (90) 
91 (62%) 
16 (11%) 
13 (9%) 
LDV 
100mg 
n (%) 
146 
145 (99 %) 
126 (86%) 
19 (13) 
8 (5) 
5 (3) 
1 (<1) 
1 (1) 
1 (<1) 
2 (1) 
126 (86) 
24 ( 16%) 
17 (12%) 
15 (10%) 
74 (25%) 
73 (50%) 
1(<1%) 
80 (28%) 
29 (10%) 
20 (7%) 
1 (<1%) 
40 (14%) 
58 (41%) 
22 (15%) 
24 (17%) 
19 (13%) 
1 (<1%) 
28 (20%) 
5 (3%) 
1 (<1%) 
0 
12 (8%) 
The  mean  time  on  study  therapy  was  76.7  weeks  for  the  ETV  group  and  52.6  weeks  for  the  LVD 
group. The maximum time on study therapy was 114.9 weeks for ETV and 87.3 weeks for LVD. The 
mean time on study therapy for Virologic-Only Responders was 94.8 weeks for the ETV group and 
79.8 weeks for the LVD group. 
The demographics and baseline HBV characteristics are displayed in table 18. 
33/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 
40 
112 (77) 
33 (23) 
93 (64) 
50 (34) 
0 
2 (1) 
72 (50) 
36 (25) 
133 (91) 
6.5 (3.41) 
7.0 
116  
(80%) 
1.8 (1.18)  
1.0 
9 (6) 
2.2 (1.41) 
2.0 
5 (4) 
Table 18: Main baseline characteristics  
ETV n=147 
LVD n=146 
105 (74) 
36 (26) 
39  
38 
Age years 
Mean  
Median 
Gender n (%) 
Male 
Female  
Race n (%) 
Caucasian 
Asian  
Black  
Other) 
Region n (%) 
Europe 
Asia 
N  (%)  available  baseline 
biopsy 
Knodell Necroinflammatory  score 
Mean  (SD) 
median 
Proportion scores >2 
83 (59) 
57 (40) 
0 
1 (<1) 
62 (44) 
35 (25) 
135 (92) 
6.5(3.23) 
7.0 
124 (88%) 
Knodell Fibrosis scores 
mean  (SD) 
median 
Cirrhosis n (%) 
Ishak fibrosis scores 
mean (SD) 
median 
Cirrhosis n (%) 
HBV DNA bDNA 
mean (SD) 
median 
HBV DNA PCR 
mean  
median 
HBV subtypes 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
ALT 
mean (SD) 
median 
range 
Prior therapy 
Interferon 
LDV/ Famciclovir  
1.7(1.19) 
1.0 
14(10) 
2.3 (1.5) 
2.0 
9 (6) 
2.50 (0.95) 
2.66 
2.50 (0.93)  
2.67 
9.48(1.8) 
9.32 
9.24 (1.6) 
9.29 
38 (26) 
23 (16) 
27 (19) 
46 (33) 
0 
4 (3) 
123.9 
88.0 
21-726 
63 (45) 
141(100) 
36 (25) 
17 (12) 
28 (19) 
56 (39) 
0 
3 (2) 
131.9 
83.0 
20-1075 
78 (54) 
144 (99) 
•  48-week primary efficacy analyses 
Overall results on the co-primary endpoint demonstrated superiority of entecavir over lamivudine as 
shown in the table 19.  
34/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: Histological improvement at week 48, treated subjects with histology pairs  
Principal Analyses (NC = F) 
(1) Histologic Improvement  
Number with Improvement/ 
Subjects with Evaluable Baseline Histology (%) 
Difference Estimate (ETV - LVD) 
95% CI 
p-value 
(2) Composite Endpoint  
(HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA assay and ALT < 1.25 × ULN) 
Number Meeting Composite Endpoint/Subjects Evaluable 
Difference Estimate (ETV - LVD) 
95% CI 
p-value 
Secondary Analyses (NC = M) 
(1) Histologic Improvement  
Number with Improvement/ 
Subjects with Evaluable Histology Pairs (%) 
Difference Estimate (ETV - LVD) 
95% CI 
p-value 
(2) Composite Endpoint  
(HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA assay and ALT < 1.25 × ULN) 
Number Meeting Composite Endpoint/Subjects Evaluable 
Difference Estimate (ETV - LVD) 
97.5% CI 
p-value 
ETV 1.0 mg 
124 
LVD 100 mg 
116 
68/124 (55) 
32/116 (28) 
27.3 
(13.6, 40.9) 
< 0.0001 
77/141 (55) 
50.5 
(40.4, 60.6) 
< 0.0001 
110 
6/145 (4) 
98 
68/110 (62) 
32/98 (33) 
29.2 
(14.3, 44.0) 
< 0.0001 
77/134 (57) 
53.0 
(42.7, 63.4) 
< 0.0001 
6/135 (4) 
Entecavir was superior to lamivudine for the proportion of subjects who demonstrated improvement in 
hepatic fibrosis using Ishak score at Week 48. The proportions were 34% and 16%, respectively (NC 
=  F  method)  (difference  estimate  [ETV-LVD]  =  17.5;  95%  CI  6.8,  28.2];  p  =  0.0019).  11%  in  the 
entecavir  group  compared  to  26%  in  the  lamivudine  group  had  a  worsening  Ishak  fibrosis  scores  at 
Week 48. 
The entecavir group showed reductions from baseline at Week 48 for the following hepatic endpoints: 
•  HBV  cccDNA  (mean  change:  -0.6  log10  copies/HGEq  versus  0.0  log10  copies/HGEq  for 
lamivudine p < 0.0001) 
•  Total  hepatic  HBV  DNA  (mean  change:  entecavir  -1.7  log10  copies/HGEq;  lamivudine  –  0.2g10 
copies/HGEq; p < 0.0001) 
Table 20 summarises the results for the secondary endpoints. 
Table 20: Summary of secondary endpoints at week 48 (NC=F)  
Secondary endpoint 
ETV (n=141)  LVD (n=145)  Difference 
estimates 
[ETV-
8 (6%) 
-0.48 
2 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
5 (3%) 
4 (3%) 
22 (15%) 
93 (66%) 
- 5.11 
29 (21%) 
27 (19%) 
14 (10%) 
11 (8%) 
86 (61%) 
LVD] (95%CI) 
60.4 (51.8, 69.1)  p<0.0001 
-4.4 (-4.8, -4.0)    p<0.0001 
19.2 (12.3,26.1)    p<0.0001 
17.8 (11, 24.5)      p <0.0001 
6.5 ( 0.7,12.2)      p=0.0278 
5.0 (-0.1,10.2)      p=0.06 
45.8 (35.9, 55.8) p <0.0001 
HBV DNA <0.7 MEQ/ML by bDNA assay 
Mean change by PCR (log10 copies/ml)*   
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
HBV DNA <300 copies/ml 
Loss of HBeAg 
HBeAg seroconversion 
ALT normalisation (< 1 xULN) 
Patient management endpoints  
    Complete virological response 
    Partial virological response 
    Virological non-response 
     Non-Completer 
     Missing Week 48 data 
Complete response+ ALT normalisation 
* limit of quantitation 300 copies/ml 
ETV  was  superior  to  LVD  for  all  virological  endpoints,  which  could  be  expected  in  a  population 
refractory to the comparator.  
1(1%) 
7 (5%) 
121(83%) 
10 (7%) 
16 (11%) 
1(1%) 
13 (9%) 
80 (57%) 
40 (28%) 
7 (5%) 
8 (6%) 
11 (8%) 
7.1 (2.5,11.7)        p=0.0027 
8.5 (3.6, 13.5)     p=0.0008 
35/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy at week 96 
LVD 
n=3 
0 
0 
3 (100%) 
Table 21: Response status through Year 2 – treated subjects 
Virologic-Only responder continuing 2nd year of dosing 
ETV 
n=77 
9 (12%) 
57 (74%) 
11 (14%) 
Complete responders at EOD** 
Virologic-Only Responder at EOD 
Non responder at EOD 
Response –individual endpoints 
HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml 
HBV DNA <300 copies/ml at EOD 
Mean change from baseline (log10 copies/ml) at Year 2  
Loss of HBeAg 
HBeAg seroconversion 
ALT normalisation <1.0 x ULN at EOD 
Cumulative responses through Year 2 
Cumulative HBV DNA <300 copies/ml  
Mean change from baseline (log10 copies/ml) at Year 2 EOD 
Cumulative HBeAg loss at Year 2 EOD 
Cumulative confirmed HBeAg seroconversion at EOD 
Cumulative confirmed HBsAg seroconversion 
Cumulative ALT normalisation <1.0 x ULN at EOD 
*Complete response: HBV DNA <0.7Meq/ml and loss of HBeAg. **EOD: End of Dosing 
66 (86%) 
31 (40%) 
- 6.19 
9 (12%) 
8 (10%) 
81% 
n=141 
42 (30%) 
-5.91 
26 (18%) 
22 (16%) 
1 (<1%) 
85% 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
n=145 
1 (<1%) 
8 (6%) 
8 (6%) 
29% 
ETV-treated Virologic-Only Responders, who continued to Year 2 of dosing (n=77), had incremental 
benefit of therapy as demonstrated by: 
- Subjects with HBV DNA < 300 copies/ml: from 21% (Year 1) to 40% (Year 2) 
- Reduction in HBV DNA mean change: from -5.69 (Year 1) to -6.19 log10 copies/ml (Year 2) 
- ALT normalization: from 65% (Year 1) to 81% (Year 2) 
- HBeAg loss: from 10% (Year 1) to 18% (Year 2) 
- HBeAg seroconversion: from 8% (Year 1) to 16% (Year 2) 
- Liver biopsy was only available on 10 ETV subjects at Week 96 and 9 of 10 demonstrated 
incremental histological improvement during the 2nd year of treatment. 
In  contrast,  all  Year  1  and  2  data  suggest  that  continuing  lamivudine  in  LVD  refractory  subjects 
provides minimal or no benefit. 
A  sustained  response  was  evaluated  only  in  22  subjects  who  achieved  a  Response  at  Week  96  and 
completed 24 week follow-up off-treatment. Eleven (50%) of these subjects had a sustained response 
(HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml and HBeAg loss) at 24 weeks off treatment.  
• 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The  applicant  performed  a  number  of  analyses  of  the  48-weeks results from the phase III studies to 
better define the treatment response to entecavir.  
The  efficacy  results  were  assessed  using  a  combined  response  endpoint  including  histological, 
virological  and  biochemical  response,  in  accordance  to  established guidelines. Two analyses (A and 
B)  were  therefore  performed  using  different  HBV  DNA  cut-offs  for  the  definition  of  virological 
response:  
•  Analysis  A:  Responders  achieve  Histological  Improvement  and  HBV  DNA  <105 copies/ml  by 
PCR assay, and ALT ≤ 1.0 x ULN. 
•  Analysis  B:  Responders  achieve  Histological  Improvement,  and  HBV  DNA  < 400 copies/ml  by 
PCR assay, and ALT ≤ 1.0 x ULN. 
36/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22: Combination endpoints at week 48 (N=F) 
Treatment regimen 
Naïve HBeAg+  (022) 
Analysis A 
Analysis B 
Naïve HBeAg – (027) 
Analysis A 
Analysis B 
LVD refractory HBeAg+ 
Analysis A 
Analysis B 
ETV 0.5 mg 
N=314 
169/314 (54) 
138/314 (44) 
N=296 
179/296 (60) 
170/296 (57) 
ETV 1.0 mg 
N=124 
29/124 (23) 
16/124 (13) 
LVD 100 mg 
N=314 
122/314 (39) 
0/314 (3 25) 
N=287 
130/287 (45) 
112/287 (39) 
LVD100mg 
N=116 
1/116 (1) 
0/116 (0) 
Difference  estimate  (95%CI), 
p-value 
ETV-LVD 
15 (7.3, 22.7)  0.0002 
18.5 (11.2, 25.8) <0.0001 
15.2 (7.2, 23.2) 0.0002 
18.4 (10.4, 26.4) <0.0001 
22.5 (14.9, 30.2) <0.0001 
12.9 (7.0, 18.8) <0.0001 
As shown in table 22, the analyses of combined endpoints at Week 48 consistently showed that ETV 
was  superior  to  LVD,  although  lower  response  rates  were  seen  compared  to  those  for  individual 
endpoints. 
Additional analyses were conducted looking at the treatment response in patients that fulfil the current 
recommendation  to  treat,  i.e.  patients  with  an  HBV  DNA  level  >105  copies/ml,  Knodell 
necroinflammatory score ≥ 5 at baseline and elevated ALT > 2 x ULN versus treatment response in 
patients  with  milder  disease.  These  analyses  showed  that  Week  48  response  rates  were  higher  in 
patients  currently  considered  prime  candidates  for  antiviral  treatment,  i.e.  those  with  moderate  to 
severe  disease.  This  was  evident  in  both  treatment  groups  and  in  particular  among  naïve  HBeAg 
positive subjects. It was also demonstrated that HBeAg seroconversion occurred mainly among these 
patients  (ETV  28%;  LVD  25%)  compared  with  those  patients  having  low  ALT  (<2  x  ULN)  and 
histological scores (ETV 8%; LVD 6%).  
The  response  rates  with  respect  to  histological  improvement  (55-57%),  normalisation  of  ALT  (65-
86%)  and  reduction  of  HBV  DNA  (<400  copies/ml)  (51-91%)  in  naïve  ETV-treated  subjects  with 
milder  disease  could  also  be  considered  clinically  relevant.  In  contrast,  among  ETV-treated  LVD 
refractory patients with milder disease, histological improvement occurred at considerably lower rates, 
35% (versus 72% in subgroup A) despite a similar 5-log decrease in HBV DNA. The fact that these 
patients  were  pre-treated  and  had  already  achieved  some  partial  response  on  LVD  therapy,  might 
explain  the  lower  histological  response.  Overall  results  suggest  that  patients  with  immunoactive 
disease  achieved  more  benefit  from  ETV  therapy,  but  the  response  in  patients  with  lower  ALT  was 
also clinically meaningful.  
An additional analysis was performed to look at prognostic factors among ETV-treated patients. This 
showed  that  in  naïve  HBeAg  positive  patients,  baseline  HAI  score  (>10),  HBV  DNA  level  (<107 
copies/ml)  and  ALT  level  (>5  x  ULN)  were  significant  predictors  of  response  at  Week  48.  These 
results are in agreement with those previously shown for interferon, lamivudine and adefovir. Subjects 
with ALT >5 x ULN also had the highest rate of HBeAg seroconversion (39%). The most consistent 
association  was  that  between  high  baseline  HAI  scores  and  response  rates  of  histological 
improvement,  which  came  out  as  statistically  significant  in  HBeAg  positive  and  HBeAg  negative 
subjects  and  borderline  in  LVD  refractory.  In  ETV  patients  with  very  high  HBV  DNA  levels 
satisfactory histological and biochemical responses were noted at week 48. Other factors such as race, 
HBV subtype and prior IFN therapy did not seem to affect antiviral efficacy of ETV.  
Further analyses showed a clear correlation between grade of virological suppression and histological 
improvement. However, this did not translate to a higher rate of HBeAg seroconversion. No consistent 
relationship between changes in viraemia and seroconversion was shown. It was evident that HBeAg 
seroconversions clustered in the subgroup that achieved an HBV DNA <400 copies/ml. These data are 
based on a limited number of patients and do not allow any definitive conclusions to be drawn.  
37/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The efficacy of entecavir was evaluated in patients co-infected with HIV (study AI463038), post-liver 
transplant patients (study AI463015) and patients with decompensated liver disease (study AI463048). 
An overview of these studies is presented in table 23. 
Treatment 
Table 23: Studies in special populations 
Type of study/ 
criteria for inclusion 
Study AI463038 
Chronic  LVD-resistant 
HBV  co-infected  with 
HIV 
ETV  
1.0 mg QD 
week 
24 
blinded 
treatment 
Duration 
Placebo 
Continued 
LVD 
(300mg)  –
containing  
HAART 
ETV  
1.0 mg QD 
Optionally 
HBIG  
+24  week 
open-label 
treatment 
+24  week 
follow-up 
Up  to  104 
weeks 
of 
open-label 
ETV 
ETV  
1.0  mg QD  
to  96 
Up 
weeks 
ADV 10 mg 
QD  
Stable  HAART    HIV 
RNA<400 copies/ml  
HBVDNA  >105  log10 
copies/ml  
HBeAg + or - 
Study AI463015 
hep 
Recurrent 
B, 
despite 
anti-HBV 
clinical 
prophylaxis, 
stable,  >100 days post-
transplant 
HBV DNA >10pg/ml 
Study AI463048 
Patients  with  chronic 
hepatitis  B  and  hepatic 
decompensation  
(defined  by  a  Child 
Pugh > 7 
Study AI463038 
of 
N 
patients 
Primary  efficacy 
endpoint 
Location 
Study design 
N=68 
ETV n=51 
Placebo 
n=17 
Mean  HBV  DNA 
log10  copies/ml  at 
week  24    (PCR 
assay) 
Europe  (35%  of 
patients),  USA 
(15% 
of 
patients,  South 
America 
(50% 
of patients) 
Phase II 
Randomised 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled 
N=9 
Safety and PK 
Europe,  USA, 
Australia 
Secondary: n (%) 
<0.7MEq/ml 
HBV DNA  
at  Week 24 
at  Week 48 
Mean  change  in 
serum  HBV  DNA 
log10  copies/ml  at 
week 24 
Pilot study 
Open-label 
Multicentre 
Randomised 
Open-label 
Multicentre 
Patients (n = 68) continued their lamivudine-regimen and were assigned to add either entecavir 1 mg 
once daily (n = 51) or placebo (n = 17) for 24 weeks followed by an open-label phase for an additional 
24 weeks  where  all  received  entecavir.  The  majority  of  the  treated  subjects  were  male  (96%), 
white (85%) and the mean age was 41 years. 
The  distribution  of  baseline  HIV/HBV  disease  characteristics  was  balanced  between  the  ETV  and 
placebo  groups,  including  mean  HBV  DNA  levels  (9.13  and  9.12  log10  copies/ml,  respectively)  and 
frequency of positive HBeAg (98% and 100%, respectively). Patients had stable controlled HIV (HIV 
RNA  < 400 copies/ml)  with  recurrence  of  HBV  viraemia  on  a  lamivudine-containing  HAART 
regimen. At baseline entecavir-treated patients had a median duration of prior lamivudine therapy of 
4.8 years and median CD4 count of 494 cells/mm3 (range: 137-1,388 cells/mm3) with only 5 subjects 
having CD4 count <200; 90% of patients had LVDr substitutions by genotype.  
The mean number of weeks of exposure to double-blind study drug was comparable between the ETV 
and  placebo  groups  (24.0  and  24.5  weeks,  respectively).  Three  ETV-treated  subjects  (6%) 
discontinued study therapy prior to Week 24. 
RESULTS 
As  shown  in  table  24,  a  24-week  treatment  course  with  entecavir  1  mg  resulted  in  statistically 
significant reduction in HBV DNA compared to placebo. 
38/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24: Summary of efficacy endpoints at week 24 
Efficacy endpoint 
ETV 
N=51 
Placebo 
N=17 
Difference estimates 
(ETV-placebo) 
Primary endpoint  
Mean  HBV  DNA  at  week  24 
copies/ml) 
Secondary endpoints 
Mean HBV DNA change by PCR 
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
Loss of HBeAg 
HBeAg seroconversion 
ALT normalisation (<1.25xULN) 
ALT normalisation (<1.0xULN) 
(log10 
5.52 
9.27 
- 3.66 
3 (6%) 
1 (2%) 
1 (2%) 
11/30 (37%) 
12/35 (34%) 
+0.11 
0 
0 
0 
1/7 (14%) 
1/12 (8%) 
-3.76 (95%CI -4.49, -3.04); p < 0.0001).  
p=0.31 
p=0.25 
p=0.56 
p=025 
During  the  open-label  phase  a  further  reduction  of  HBV  DNA  level  occurred  from  -3.66  log10 
copies/ml (Week 24) to -4.20 log10 copies/ml (Week 48). This compared to HBV mono-infected LVD 
refractory patients who achieved a mean change of -5.41 log10 copies/ml at week 48. 
Study A463015 
Of the 9 treated subjects, 8 were male, and the mean age was 53 years. Five subjects were positive for 
HBeAg.  The  median  baseline  HBV  DNA  level  by  PCR  assay  was  8.58  log10  copies/ml.  Laboratory 
abnormalities at baseline included increased ALT values (n=6), increased serum amylase/lipase (n=6), 
Grade 1 BUN/urea elevations (n=6) and Grade 1 elevated creatinine levels (n=4). All subjects received 
at  least  1  HBV  medication  prior  to  study  entry  [LVD  (9  subjects),  famciclovir  (4  subjects),  and 
ganciclovir  (4  subjects)].  One  subject  had  received  prior  HBIG,  but  did  not  continue  this  while  on-
treatment with ETV. All subjects have completed 48 weeks of open-label dosing. The mean time on 
study therapy for all treated subjects was 131 weeks (range: 92.4 to 164.0 weeks). In this study, liver 
biopsy was optional. 
Efficacy observations are limited to a 9 subjects but are encouraging (table 25).  
Table 25: Summary of efficacy endpoints at week 24 and 48  
Efficacy endpoints 
Week 24 
Mean change by PCR (log10 copies/ml)  
N with> 2 log10reduction from baseline  
Week 48 
Mean change by PCR (log10 copies/ml)  
N with > 2 log10 reduction from baseline 
Maintained response through week 48  
N with > 2 log10 reduction from baseline  
Proportion with <0.7 MEq/ml 
HBeAg Seroconversion  
ALT normalisation (to <1.25xULN) or improvement 
Histological improvement 
Resistance development during 3-year FU 
Study AI463048 
Entecavir (n=9) 
- 3.62 
 8/9 
- 3.90 
 9/9 
 8/9 
 5/8 
 2 
  6/9 
  3/4 
  4/7 
This study in decompensated patients is ongoing and an exploratory analysis of efficacy data has been 
performed. Of the 65 patients (34 ETV; 31 ADV) from the efficacy cohort in the interim database, a 
total of 36 (22 ETV; 14 ADV) had virus containing LVDr substitutions on entry. At Week 24, 50% of 
ETV-treated  patients  (11/22) in this subset had an HBV DNA <300 copies/ml, as compared to only 
21%  (3/14)  of  ADV-treated  patients.  In  this  subset  analysis,  the  mean  and  median  changes  in  HBV 
DNA through Week 24 were -4.39 and -4.22 log10 copies/ml, respectively, for ETV; results were -3.5 
and -3.42 log10 copies/ml, respectively, for ADV. Although providing early data in a small cohort of 
patients, the high proportion of patients achieving an undetectable HBV DNA with ETV treatment in 
this population is encouraging.  
39/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Supportive studies 
AI463056 LVD refractory Chinese patients 
This is a phase II double-blind randomised (4:1) placebo-controlled study in LVD refractory Chinese 
patients.  The  study  comprised  3  phases:  12-week  double-blind  dosing  phase,  a  36-week  open-label 
dosing phase, and a 24-week post-dosing phase. After completing the 12 weeks double-blind phase, 
subjects  received  1.0  mg  ETV  for  up  to  36  weeks  in  the  open-label  dosing  phase  of  the  study. 
Subsequently  subjects  could  continue  open-label  ETV  treatment  by  enrolling  in  the  ETV  roll-over 
study  AI463050.  Subjects  who  prematurely  discontinued  study  treatment  or  who  did  not  in  the 
rollover  study  entered  24  week  post-dosing-follow-up.  The  mean  time  on  open-label  ETV  was  40.1 
weeks. 
Most  of  the  subjects  were  male  (75%)  and  the  mean  age  was  35  years.  The  majority  was  HBeAg 
positive (129/145; 85%) with a mean HBV DNA level 8.77 log10 copies/ml. The proportion of subjects 
with ALT >1.25xULN was 43%. 
Results are summarised in table 26. 
Table 26: Summary of primary and secondary endpoints at week 12 and at Week 48 
Endpoint 
Entecavir 1.0 mg 
N=118 
- 4.30 
Placebo 
N=29 
-0.15 
estimates 
Difference 
placebo] (95%CI) 
-4.06 (-4.53, -3.6)   p<0.0001 
[ETV-
Mean change by PCR (log10 copies/ml) 
Secondary endpoints 
HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA assay 
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
Loss of HBeAg 
HBeAg Seroconversion 
ALT normalisation 
36 week open-label  ETV treatment phase 
Mean change by PCR (log10 copies/ml) 
Secondary endpoints 
HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA assay 
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
Loss of HBeAg 
HBeAg Seroconversion 
ALT normalisation <1.25 x ULN 
85/115 (74%) 
9/116 (8%) 
7/106 (7%) 
7/106 (7%) 
32/45 (71%) 
3/29 (10%) 
0/29 
2/25 (8%) 
2/25 (8%) 
1/15 (7%) 
63.6 (43.7, 83.4)     p<0.0001 
7.8 (2.1,17.6)          p=0.12 
-1.4 (-12.4, 9.6)       p=0.80 
-1.4 (-12.4, 9.6)       p=0.80 
64.4 (35.4, 93.5)      p<0.0001 
n=116 
-5.08 
85 (74%) 
33 (28%) 
8/106 (8%) 
6/106 (6%) 
41/45 (91%) 
N=29 
-4.86 
22 (70%) 
13 (45%) 
4/23 (17%) 
2/23 (9%) 
16/17 (94%) 
Higher  proportion  of  subjects  achieved  HBV  DNA  <400  copies/ml  who  had  the  following 
characteristics  at  baseline:  HBeAg  negative,  ALT  levels  >2.6xULN  and  received  prior  interferon. 
About two-thirds of the subjects with HBeAg seroconversion had elevated ALT levels at baseline. 
Virological rebound occurred in 15 subjects on ETV treatment but there was no evidence that these 
were due to emergence of resistance. Few (< 1 %) subjects experienced ALT flares on treatment. 
Prolonged  ETV  treatment  up  to  48  weeks  in  Chinese  LVD-refractory  patients  provided  incremental 
benefits  with  respect  to  virological  and  biochemical  endpoints.  The  results  are  in  line  with  those 
achieved  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  study  AI423026,  although  virological  responses  were  somewhat 
lower.  This  might  reflect  differences  in  baseline  HBV  characteristics  with  a  higher  proportion  of 
subjects (67%) having normal ALT levels in the Chinese study. The HBeAg seroconversion rate was 
very low (6%). As expected the majority of subjects with seroconversion had elevated baseline ALT 
levels. 
Study AI463023 in China - nucleoside naïve HBeAg+/HBeAg- patients 
This is an ongoing randomised (1:1) double-blind phase III study in China comparing the safety and 
efficacy  of  ETV  0.5  mg  QD  to  LVD  100  mg  QD  administered  for  up  to  96  weeks  to  subjects  with 
compensated  chronic  hepatitis  B.  Randomisation  was  stratified  by  HBeAg  status  at  baseline  and 
40/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigative  site.  Subjects  were  to  have  elevated  ALT  levels  >1.3xULN.  The  primary  efficacy 
endpoint was the proportion of subjects in each treatment group who achieved the composite endpoint 
(HBV  DNA  <0.7  MEq/ml  by  bDNA  assay  and  ALT<1.25xULN)  at  Week  48.  Histological 
improvement was not an endpoint in this study. 
Of 525 subjects randomised in the study, 519 started treatment (ETV 258; LVD 261) and 499 (ETV 
251, LVD 248) completed the first year of dosing. Most subjects were male (82%) with a mean age of 
30 years. HBV disease characteristics were comparable between treatment groups. Most subjects were 
HBeAg positive (ETV 87%, LVD 85%). Mean baseline HBV DNA was 8.64 log10 copies/ml in the 
ETV group and 8.48 log10 copies/ml in the LVD group. 
Efficacy results are shown in table 27. 
Table 27: Efficacy results at Week 48 (NC=F)  
ETV 0.5 mg 
Endpoint 
N=258 
LVD100mg 
N=261 
Difference 
(95%CI) 
estimates 
[ETV-LVD] 
231 (90%) 
174 (67%) 
23.1 (16.3, 29.9)     p<0.0001 
-5.90 
244 (95%) 
202 (78%) 
41/225 (18%) 
33/225 (15%) 
238 (92%)  
Composite endpoint* 
Secondary endpoints 
Mean change in HBV DNA 
HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml  
HBV DNA <400 copies/ml 
Loss of HBeAg 
HBeAg Seroconversion 
ALT normalisation <1.25xULN 
Patient managed endpoints 
Consolidated response** 
Partial virological response 
Virological non-responder 
Did not complete 1st year of dosing 
*  Composite  endpoint:  HBV  DNA  <0.7  MEq/ml  and  ALT<1.25xULN.  Consolidated  response:  HBV  DNA  <0.7  MEq/ml, 
and HBeAg negative from Week 24 to Week 48 
-1.50 (-1.77, -1.2)    p<0.0001 
22.8 (16.7, 28.9)      p<0.0001 
34.6 (27.0, 42.2)      p<0.0001  
-1.7 (-9.0, 5.6)         p=0.65 
-3.0 (-9.8, 3.8)         p=0.39 
10.3 (4.6, 16.0)        p=0.0005 
-4.33 
188 (72%) 
116 (44%) 
44/221 (20%) 
39/221 (18%) 
214 (82%) 
40 (15%) 
146 (56%) 
62 (24%) 
13 (5%) 
50 (19%) 
193 (75%) 
8 (3%) 
7 (3%) 
The efficacy results achieved in this study are comparable to those achieved in the study 022. ETV 0.5 
mg  was  superior  to  LVD  100  mg  for  all  efficacy  endpoints  with  one  exception,  HBeAg 
loss/seroconversion, for which ETV was non-inferior to LVD. In this study seroconversion rates were 
higher  than  in  the  previous  AI463056,  probably  due  to  the  fact  that  elevated  ALT  was  required  for 
enrolment. 
Study AI460312 was a phase II conducted in 212 patients in China nucleoside naïve HbeAg positive 
patients.  
Of 204 patients treated with open-label ETV, 84 (41%) had normal baseline ALT prior to treatment. 
An exploratory analysis of response at the end of 48 weeks of open-label treatment by ALT status in 
suggests that patients with normal ALT levels treated with ETV have lower response rate than patients 
in elevated ALT levels. 
Efficacy Endpoints by Baseline ALT status 
Endpoint at Week 48 
HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml by bDNA: n (%) 
HBV DNA < 400 c/ml by PCR: n (%) 
HBeAg seroconversion: n (%) 
Baseline ALT 
ALT < 1.25 x ULN 
N=84 
59 (70) 
13 (15) 
2 (2) 
ALT ≥ 1.25 x ULN 
N=120 
102 (85) 
73 (61) 
7 (7) 
In this study patients stopped open label ETV after 48 weeks of dosing regardless of their responses to 
therapy. The observed rates of off-treatment ALT flares (7-8 %) were higher than those noted in study 
022.  This  suggests  that  if  treatment  is  discontinued  without  regard  to  treatment  response  the  rate  of 
post-treatment ALT flare could be higher. 
41/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study AI463901 rollover study  
AI463901 is a multinational and open-label study evaluating the safety and antiviral activity of ETV 
in combination with LVD. Later the protocol was amended to eliminate lamivudine. Subjects enrolled 
must  have  participated  in  a  previous  ETV  study  and  must  have  discontinued  their  study  medication 
from  the  previous  study  before  beginning  therapy  offered  in  this  study.  All  treated  patients  (859) 
received combination therapy (ETV 1.0 mg + LVD 100 mg QD) except for 5 subjects that received 
ETV monotherapy. The majority of treated subjects were male (77%) and the mean age was 41 years. 
The  largest  geographic  cohort  of  subjects  was  from  Asia  (41%),  followed  by  Europe  (34%),  North 
America  (13%),  and  South  America  (12%).  For  treated  subjects  with  entry  data  available,  the  mean 
serum  HBV  DNA  was  6.35  log10 copies/ml  and  66%  of  subjects  tested  positive  for  HBeAg. 
Approximately half of the subjects (49%) had normal ALT values at entry (< 1.25 x ULN). 
Preliminary results from this complex rollover study provide evidence that continued antiviral therapy 
beyond  2  years  provided  incremental  benefit  in  the  HBeAg  positive  nucleoside-naïve  patients  with 
partial response to ETV, since virological suppression was maintained and seroconversion occurred in 
9% of the subjects (at Week 24). Most of the HBeAg negative patients had relapses after discontinuing 
study  therapy  after  1  year  and  re-treatment  with  ETV  1.0  mg  resulted  in  restoration  of  virological 
suppression.  
Data suggest that the combination of ETV and LVD did not provide any additional benefit over ETV 
monotherapy  in  any  of  the  populations  studied,  although  this  study  was  open  and  therefore  exclude 
any formal comparisons to be made.  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
The overall estimated mean exposure to entecavir was 60 weeks for the 0.5 mg dose and 56 weeks for 
the 1.0 mg dose. There were 330 patients who received ETV for more than 1.5 years and 3 patients for 
more than 3 years. The total population exposed to ETV in randomised trials included 1392 subjects. 
A further 899 subjects received the active comparator and 108 received placebo for a short time period 
after which time 105 of the placebo-treated patients received open-label ETV.  
Study  AI463022  included  safety  information  for 709 treated subjects (ETV 354; LVD 355) through 
the end of dosing up to 96 weeks. During this period, the mean cumulative exposure to study therapy 
was  80.8  weeks  in  the  ETV  treatment  group  and  67.7  weeks  in  the  LVD  treatment  group.  Study 
AI463027 included safety data for 638 treated subjects (ETV 325; LVD 313) and the mean cumulative 
exposure to study therapy was 56.1 weeks in the ETV group and 56.8 weeks in the LVD group. Study 
AI463026 included data for 286 treated subjects (ETV141; LVD145) and the mean exposure to study 
therapy  was  76.7  weeks  in  the  ETV  group  and  52.6  weeks  in  the  LVD  group.  The  mean  time  on 
therapy  in  the  rollover  study  AI463901,  including  882  patients,  was  37.8  weeks  for  subjects 
previously treated with ETV and 37.7 weeks for subjects previously treated with LVD. The maximum 
time on therapy was 184 weeks.  
Safety  analyses  from  the  second  year  of  treatment  (Week  96)  were  provided  as  supplementary 
information during the procedure. 
Overall,  the  safety  population  included  mostly  males,  and  females  represented  around  25%  of  the 
study population. The majority of patients were in their middle age and only 34 subjects > 65 years 
were treated with ETV. All study subjects had compensated hepatitis B and there were few patients 
with baseline liver cirrhosis (n=58).  
Four potential safety issues were analysed in all studies: 
- 
- 
hepatitis flares during and after treatment based on experience of approved therapies 
in the management of chronic hepatitis B 
lactic acidosis, a class-related concern of the nucleoside/nucleotide analogues 
42/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  CNS  events  from  the  observation  of  perivascular  inflammation  in  the  CNS  of  dogs 
- 
reversible upon cessation of dosing which may have been species-dependent. 
neoplasms  based  on  an  increased  incidence  of  benign  and  malignant  neoplasms 
involving a variety of organ sites in carcinogenicity studies conducted in rodents 
• 
Adverse events  
The  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  included  538  subjects  and  were  heterogeneous  regarding  study 
designs,  populations  and  ETV  exposure  (0.05  mg  to  40  mg).  Only  39  patients  received  placebo 
rendering it difficult to draw firm conclusions from these studies. No clear safety signal was observed. 
Nevertheless,  the  data  indicated  that  AEs  increased  with  higher  doses  of  ETV  and  headache  and 
gastrointestinal  symptoms  were  noted  more  frequently  during  ETV  administration  than  in  the 
placebo/other drug group. Among laboratory abnormalities elevated ALT occurred more commonly in 
the  ETV  group  vs.  placebo  /other  drug  (11%  vs.  5%).  From  those  patients  who  had  ECG 
measurements  pre  and  post  treatment,  there  was  small  number  of  patients  with  an  increase  in  QT-
interval  on  treatment  (3%  versus  1%).  Nonetheless  supplementary  analysis  did  not  show  any 
significant difference in QT intervals between subjects treated with ETV or with placebo. 
Among  the  2399  treated  subjects  (those  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  medication)  in  the 
Phase  2  and  3  clinical  studies,  72%  of  subjects  in  the  ETV  group  and  81%  of  subjects  in  the  LVD 
group experienced a minimum of 1 adverse event. With regard to the pivotal studies in the nucleoside-
naive  and  LVD-refractory  populations,  the  frequency  and  profile  of  AEs  were  comparable  between 
both populations overall. Furthermore, there was no apparent dose-response relationship in the overall 
incidence of adverse events for entecavir across the 10-fold dose range in study comparing 0.1 mg, 0.5 
mg and 1mg dose (study AI463014). 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  during  the  first  48  weeks  of  treatment  were  headache, 
upper  respiratory  infection,  cough,  upper  abdominal  pain  and  fatigue,  all  of  which  occurred  with 
comparable frequencies in the ETV vs. LVD treatment groups.  
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  AEs  that  were  attributed  by  the  investigator  to  study  compound 
(related,  all  Grades)  was  comparable  between  the  2  populations  and  was  comparable  in  ETV-  and 
LVD-treated  subjects  (ETV  35%;  LVD  37%).  The  most  common  related  AEs  for  ETV-treated 
subjects were headache, fatigue, dizziness, and nausea. Most AEs were mild to moderate in severity 
(Grade 1-2). In the nucleoside-naïve population, the most frequent Grade 3-4 AEs reported in ETV-
treated patients were increased ALT (ETV 2%; LVD 4%) and increased lipase (ETV 2%; LVD 1%). 
In the LVD-refractory population, the most frequent Grade 3-4 AEs reported in the ETV-treated group 
were increased lipase (ETV 2%, LVD 2%) and hyperglycemia (ETV 2%, LVD 0). 
43/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28:  Summary of the treatment related AE reported in at least 1% of ETV-treated subjects: 
Number of Subjects (%) 
Nucleoside-Naive Subjects 
LVD-Refractory subjects 
Safety cohort 
ETV 0.5 mg  
LVD 100mg 
ETV 1 mg  
LVD 100mg  
ETV 
LVD 100mg  
Placebo 
N= 679 
N= 668 
N= 183 
N= 190 
N= 1392 
N= 899 
N=108 
Any Adverse events 
248 (37)    
251( 38) 
83 (45) 
71 (37) 
489 (35) 
335 (37) 
21 (19) 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Nausea  
Abdominal Pain Upper 
Abdominal Pain  
Dyspepsia 
Abdominal Discomfort 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Flatulence 
84(  12) 
20 ( 3) 
18 (  3) 
11 ( 2) 
11 ( 2) 
10 ( 1) 
7 (1) 
7 (1) 
69 ( 10) 
14 ( 2) 
13 (  2) 
11 ( 2) 
13 ( 2) 
5(<1) 
5( <1) 
4 (<1) 
27 (  15) 
8 (  4) 
3 (  2) 
23 (  12) 
6 (  3) 
9 (  5) 
5 (  3) 
2 (  1) 
4 (  2) 
2 (  1) 
3 (  2) 
1 ( <1) 
1 ( <1) 
2 (  1) 
1 ( <1) 
1 ( <1) 
158 (  11) 
45 (  3) 
27 (  2) 
21 (  2) 
15 (  1) 
17 (  1) 
96 (  11) 
22 (  2) 
23 (  3) 
14 (  2) 
6 ( <1) 
7 ( <1) 
3 (  3) 
0 
0 
0 
1 ( <1) 
0 
50 ( 7) 
47 (7) 
21 (  11) 
17 (  9) 
134 (  10) 
72 (  8) 
8 (  7) 
17 (  9) 
2 (  1) 
11 (  6) 
4 (  2) 
86 (  6) 
19 (  1) 
47 (  5) 
18 (  2) 
7 (  6) 
1 ( <1) 
31 (5) 
8 ( 1) 
17 ( 3) 
7 ( 1) 
7 ( 1) 
64 (9) 
23 (  3) 
20 (  3) 
11 (2) 
32 (5) 
11 (  2) 
17 (3) 
1 ( <1) 
1 ( <1) 
86 ( 13) 
19 ( 3) 
20 (  3) 
31 (  5) 
Disorders 
General 
Administration site Conditions 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
- 
- 
and 
Infections and Infestations 
- 
- 
Influenza 
Rhinitis 
Investigations 
- 
Amylase 
Blood 
Increased 
Lipase Increased 
ALAT  Increased 
ASAT Increased 
Blood 
decreased 
Blood 
Increased 
Prothrombin 
Prolonged 
Platelet 
Decreased 
Weight Decreased 
Bicarbonate 
Biliburin 
Time 
Count 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Metabolism 
disorders 
and 
nutrition 
- 
Hyperamylasaemia 
Musculoskeletal  and  Connective 
Tissue Disorders 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Back Pain 
Mucle Cramp 
Nervous System Disorders 
- 
- 
- 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Somnolence 
Psychiatric Disorders 
Insomnia 
- 
Renal and Urinary Disorders 
- 
Haematuria 
Respiratory, 
Mediastinal Disorders 
Thoracic 
and 
- 
Cough 
Skin  and  Subutaneous  Tissue 
Disorders 
- 
- 
- 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Alopecia 
28 (  4) 
10 (  1) 
9 (  1) 
8 (  1) 
88 (13) 
58 (  9) 
25 (  4) 
8 (1) 
25 (  4) 
12 (  2) 
40 (  6) 
11 (  2) 
27 (  15) 
3 (  2) 
25 (  13) 
2 (  1) 
108 (  8) 
29 (  2) 
112 (  12) 
22 (  2) 
32 (  2) 
26 (  2) 
18 (  1) 
24 (  3) 
46 (  5) 
22 (  2) 
7 (  4) 
6 (  3) 
6 (  3) 
4 (  2) 
3 (  2) 
15 (  8) 
8 (  4) 
1 ( <1) 
4 (  2) 
1 ( <1) 
3 (  2) 
2 (  1) 
1 ( < 1) 
0 
2 (  1) 
0 
7 (4) 
2 (1) 
4 (2) 
0 
26 (  4) 
8 (  4) 
8 (  4) 
60 (  4) 
37 (  4) 
9 (  1) 
7 (  1) 
4 ( < 1) 
83 (12) 
51 (  8) 
21 (  3) 
9 (1) 
26 (  4) 
10 (  1) 
2 (  1) 
4 (  2) 
20 (  1) 
14 (  2) 
185 (  13) 
119 (  9) 
46 (  3) 
24 (  2) 
111 (  12) 
69 (  8) 
25 ( 3) 
11 (  1) 
47 (  3) 
23 (  2) 
29 (  3) 
11 (  1) 
4 (  2) 
1 ( <1) 
27 (  15) 
18 (  10) 
9 (  5) 
3 (  2) 
6 (  3) 
2 (  1) 
5 (  3) 
2 (  1) 
23 (  12) 
14 (  7) 
3 (  2) 
2 (  1) 
2 (  1) 
1 ( <1) 
5 (  3) 
1 ( <1) 
6 (  3) 
2 (  1) 
2 (  1) 
1 ( <1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (  2) 
1 ( <1) 
8 (  7) 
1 ( <1) 
1 ( <1) 
4 (  4) 
4 (  4) 
4 (  4) 
36 (  5) 
9 (  5) 
10 (  1) 
4 (  2) 
3 (  2) 
2 (  1) 
8 (  4) 
0 
4 (  2) 
0 
75 (  5) 
45 (  5) 
2 (  2) 
20 (  1) 
10 (  1) 
0 
During off-treatment follow-up, adverse events (all grades) were reported less frequently for subjects 
receiving  ETV  0.5  mg  QD  compared  with  subjects  receiving  LVD  (ETV  42%;  LVD  51%)  in  the 
nucleoside-naïve population. The incidence of AEs was comparable between the ETV (46%) and LVD 
44/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(45%) treatment groups in the LVD-refractory population. With the exception of increased ALT and 
increased AST, all other related AEs were reported with a frequency < 1% for either treatment.  
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
A total of 15 deaths (ETV n=9) were reported in the total safety cohort of 2399 patients, for an overall 
incidence of 0.6%. The overall incidence of serious adverse events was low at 5% in the ETV group 
versus 8% in the LVD group. The incidence of SAEs was comparable between nucleoside-naïve (7%) 
and LVD refractory (10%) patients. There were few SAEs (<1%) that were considered related to ETV. 
No particular pattern was observed among the events that were considered related to ETV. For LVD 
more  treatment-related  SAEs  were  reported  (in  particular  in  nucleoside-naïve  patients),  and  most  of 
these consisted of hepatic abnormalities. 
No  new  safety  signal  occurred  in  the  second  year  of  ETV  therapy  and  the  safety  profile  was 
comparable to lamivudine in nucleoside naïve patients. 
Safety issues of special interest 
•  Neoplasms  
The key safety concern with ETV relates to its possible carcinogenic potential based on the findings in 
the rodent carcinogenicity studies.  
Overall, neoplasms occurred in similar frequencies in both treatment groups, ETV n=17/1497 (1.1%) 
versus LVD n=9/899 (1.0%). The incidence rates were comparable in both groups 8.5 vs. 7.8 /1000 
patient years of observation, respectively. The most common malignancy observed was hepatocellular 
carcinoma  (HCC,  n=11)  (ETV  n=7  vs.  LVD  n=4)  with  incidence  rates  of  3.5  vs.  3.4/1000  patient 
years of observation, respectively. HCC could be expected in a population with long-standing chronic 
hepatitis B and the majority of these cases had evidence of liver cirrhosis. The rate of HCC found in 
the ETV studies is consistent with published data. The only additional malignancies reported in more 
than  1  subject  in  either  treatment  group  were  prostate  cancer  (n  =  2  [ETV]),  breast  cancer  (n  =  2 
[LVD]) and basal cell carcinoma of the skin (n = 2 [ETV]). Among the non-HCC neoplasms reported, 
there  was  1  recurrence  of  a  gastric  cancer  and  1  metastatic  cancer  both  occurring  in  LVD-treated 
patients.  Other  neoplasms  reported  were  “de  novo”  cancer.  There  was  no  particular  tumour  type  of 
non-HCC  with  elevated  frequency,  although  4  cases  with  skin  cancer  were  identified  in  the  ETV 
group  versus  1  in  the  LVD  group.  Most  of  the  patients  presented  with  risk  factors  for  cancer.  The 
median  age  was  64  years  in  both  populations  and  the  median  duration  of  drug  exposure  prior  to 
diagnosis  was  202  days  (range:  56-779)  in  ETV-treated  patients  and  325  days  (range:  277-357)  in 
LVD-treated patients. 
Two epidemiological studies (the US cohort and the Taiwan cohort) commissioned by the applicant, 
concluded that the incidence rate of all cancer and of liver cancer was significantly increased among 
HBV subjects compared to subjects not infected with HBV. In the retrospective US cohort, the overall 
incidence rate of malignancy was 9.70 per 1000 person-years (95% CI: 8.25-11.31). This represents a 
relative  risk  of  2.59  (95%  CI:  2.19-3.03)  compared  to  non-infected  subjects.  The  incidence  rate  of 
liver cancer was 4.95/1000 person-years (95% CI: 3.95-6.11). This represents a relative risk of 220.52 
(95% CI: 135.63-379.07). In the prospective Taiwan cohort, the overall malignancy incidence rate in 
the HBsAg positive cohort was 6.53/1000 person-years (95% CI: 5.79-7.34). This represents a relative 
risk  of  1.7  (95%  CI:  1.4-1.9)  compared  with  the  general  population.  The  HCC  incidence  rate  was 
3.60/1000  person-years  (95%  CI:  3.06-4.21),  which  represents  a  relative  risk  of  9.1  compared  with 
non-HBsAg-positive patients. 
In these epidemiological cohorts, subjects were followed for 8 years or more in the US study and for 
up to 11 years in the Taiwan study. The observation time is not comparable between the ETV Safety 
Cohort and the epidemiological studies precluding any comparison of the malignant neoplasm rates in 
these populations.  
45/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 28 malignant neoplasms have been reported in the updated Safety Cohort as of December 
2004  (Table  29).  The  rates  of  overall  malignant  neoplasms  were  comparable  across  the ETV versus 
the  LVD  treatment  groups,  although  numerically  higher  in  the  ETV  group.  When  assessed  by 
malignancy  subcategory,  rates  remained  comparable  regardless  whether  calculated  as  simple  event 
rates or as incidence rates per 1000 PY of observation. In addition, unintegrated data were available 
from ongoing studies AI463-038 -048 and -901 and further 15 malignant neoplasms were reported in 
these  studies.  The  malignancy  types  observed  across  the  15  malignancies  reported  were  consistent 
with those reported in the Safety Cohort and included: 1 case from AI463038 (co-infected HIV/HBV): 
testicular cancer (ETV), 6 cases from AI463048 (decompensated patients) with HCC (ETV 3; ADV 
3), 5 cases from AI463049 (long-term observational): 3 HCC (ETV 2, LVD 1), 1 small cell carcinoma 
of lung (ETV), and 1 basal cell carcinoma (ETV); and 3 cases from AI463901 (roll-over study with 
combination therapy ETV+LVD): 1 each of gastric cancer, cutaneous T cell lymphoma, and multiple 
myeloma.  
Table 29: Rates of individuals with malignant neoplasms in ETV studies (Safety Cohort) 
All neoplasms 
HCC 
Non-skin 
Non-HCC 
Non-HCC/Non-skin 
ETV  
n=1497 
19 (1.3%) 
8.8/1000 PY 
7 (0.5%) 
3.2/1000 PY 
15 (1.0%) 
6.9/1000 PY 
12 (0.8%) 
5.5/1000 PY 
8 (0.5%) 
3.7/1000 PY 
LVD  
n=899 
9 (1.0%) 
7.4/1000 PY 
4 (0.4%) 
3.3/1000 PY 
8 (0.9%) 
6.6/1000 PY 
5 (0.6%) 
4.1/100PY 
4 (0.4%) 
3.3/1000 PY 
The  mean  time  to  the  diagnosis  of  neoplasm  and  HCC  in  the  updated  Safety Cohort is presented in 
Table  30.  Overall,  the  mean  drug  exposure  to  time  of  diagnosis  was  larger  for  patients  treated  with 
ETV.  
Table 30: Neoplasms in ETV studies (Safety Cohort): Exposure and observational times 
All malignant neoplasms 
 Mean time to diagnosis of neoplasm 
 Mean drug exposure to time of diagnosis 
HCC 
Mean time to diagnosis of neoplasm 
 Mean drug exposure to time of diagnosis 
ETV 
n=1497 
19 
46 weeks 
43 weeks 
7 
37 weeks 
33 weeks 
LVD  
n=899 
9 
36 weeks 
35 weeks 
4 
25 weeks 
23 weeks 
Altogether,  the  data  demonstrate  that  there  is  no  early  safety  signal  for  an  increased  rate  of  human 
cancer as a result of treatment with ETV. However, the observational period is too limited to exclude a 
carcinogenicity risk and close monitoring in long-term follow-up studies is required.  
•  Neurological adverse events: 
In a 3-month oral toxicity study of ETV in dogs, minimal to moderate perivascular inflammation in 
the CNS was observed. The CNS inflammation was not observed in other species used in toxicological 
studies  and  was  reversible  upon  cessation  of  dosing.  In  the  Phase  1  studies,  headache  was  reported 
more  frequently  in  ETV-treated  subjects  compared  with  placebo-treated  subjects.  In  order  to  ensure 
that any clinical safety signal in humans for CNS inflammatory events was appropriately recognised, 
the ETV integrated Phase 2/3 database was searched for adverse events which could represent clinical 
manifestations of CNS vasculitis (e.g. meningitis, somnolence). 
In  both  the  nucleoside-naïve  and  LVD-refractory  study  populations,  the  incidence  of  neurological 
events was comparable between ETV- and LVD-treated subjects (26% vs. 28%) No events suggestive 
of CNS vasculitis were reported as of the data cutoff for this analysis (May 28, 2004). Headache was 
the most frequently reported neurological adverse event (ETV 18%; LVD 19%).  
46/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
A  re-analysis  of  this  potential  safety  concern  regarding  neurological  events  taking  into  account  the 
cases  of  eye  disorders  (photophobia,  reduced  visual  acuity,  blurred  vision)  was  performed  and  no 
potential association with ETV treatment was found. 
•  ALT flares 
Liver was a target organ in toxicology studies. The incidence and grades of ALT/AST elevations were 
comparable  between  the  ETV  groups  and  the  LVD  group.  There  was  no  evidence  of  drug-related 
increases in association with the higher 1.0 mg dose.  
Overall,  ALT  flares  were  observed  less  frequently  in  ETV-treated  subjects  compared  with  LVD-
treated subjects in both the nucleoside-naive and LVD-refractory populations.  
-  On-treatment  ALT  flares:  In  nucleoside-naïve  population,  ALT  flares  were  reported  in  15  (2%) 
ETV-treated  subjects  versus  28  (4%)  LVD-treated  subjects.  In  the  LVD-refractory  population, 
ALT flares were reported in 4 (2%) ETV-treated subjects versus 21 (11%) LVD-treated subjects. 
The majority of on-treatment ALT flares in the ETV group were associated with decreasing HBV 
DNA, and consistent with a manifestation of immune-mediated activity, and generally resolved 
while  continuing  ETV.  The  majority  of  flares  observed  in  the  LVD  group  on-treatment,  was 
associated with persistently elevated HBV DNA or a rise in HBV DNA levels.  
- 
 Off-treatment ALT flares: In the ETV group ALT flares were uncommon and not associated with 
signs or symptoms of hepatic impairment. No ETV-treated subjects with ALT flare experienced 
hepatic  decompensation.  In  nucleoside-naïve  population,  fewer  ETV-treated  subjects  compared 
with LVD-treated subjects had ALT flares (ETV 4%; LVD 8%) during the follow-up period. Of 
the  16  ETV-treated  subjects  with  flares,  14  were  baseline  HBeAg  negative  (AI463-027)).  In 
LVD-refractory population, 3/56 (5%) ETV-treated subjects had an ALT flare compared with no 
subject treated with LVD during the follow-up period. No subject had hepatic decompensation, 
by either clinical or laboratory parameters, associated with their flare.  
Although ALT flares were observed in low frequencies in the ETV group and rarely associated with 
hepatic  SAEs  (1%),  flares  could  still  represent  a  significant  safety  risk  for  patients  with 
decompensated liver disease (see below). 
Additional information was provided on ALT flares with regard to time of onset. The median time to 
on-treatment ALT flares differed between treatments, with flares occurring early in the treatment with 
ETV (after 4-5 weeks) and late with LVD (after >25 weeks). The median time to off-treatment ALT 
flares was longer for ETV (17-24 weeks) than for LVD (9-12 weeks). Off-treatment flares were more 
common among HBeAg negative patients (ETV 8%; LVD 11%) than among HBeAg positive patients 
(ETV <3%; LVD 7%) in both treatment groups. In the ETV-treated group and among naïve patients, 
92% (23/25) of ALT flares occurred in the HBeAg negative population.  
On the basis of these data, periodic monitoring of hepatic function is recommended during treatment.  
In China study 023, the proportion of subjects with ALT flares were comparable to those in the global 
Phase III study. In the China study 012, the observed rates of off-treatment flares were however higher 
than those noted in study 022 (7-8 % versus 1%). The median time to ALT flare was 24 weeks which 
was comparable to the analyses from phase III. Therefore the SPC includes the warning that if ETV is 
discontinued without regard to treatment response, the rate of post-treatment flares could be higher. 
•  Lactic acidosis 
A  safety  issue  related  to  the  nucleos(t)ide  analogues  class  is  mitochondrial  toxicity.  ETV  does  not 
inhibit mitochondrial γ-polymerase, and therefore lactic acidosis was not expected to be an issue for 
this compound. However, 22 cases (ETV n=11) in the safety cohort were reviewed for lactic acidosis 
syndrome,  of  whom  17  were  found  not  to  fulfil  criteria,  whereas  5  remained  undetermined  due  to 
insufficient data. There has been 1 case diagnosed with lactic acidosis syndrome (LAS) in an ongoing 
ETV trial, but supplementary data did not suggest that the elevation of lactate in this case was related 
to ETV treatment. Therefore since further data submitted support ETV´s lack of mitochondrial toxicity 
and  so  far  no  additional  cases  of  lactic  acidosis  have  been  reported  during  the  ETV  clinical  trial 
47/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
program, no additional statement has been added in the SPC over the class labelling warning on lactic 
acidosis with nucleoside analogues. 
•  Hypocarbia 
Hypocarbia was the most commonly observed electrolyte abnormality occurring at comparable rates 
for ETV and LVD, and at comparable rates across the two safety populations: nucleoside-naive: ETV 
26%,  LVD  22%;  and  LVD-refractory:  ETV  27%,  LVD  30%.  None  of  the  subjects  with  hypocarbia 
had signs of LAS. The mechanism for hypocarbia in association with chronic hepatitis B is unknown. 
Additional  cross-sectional  analyses  were  performed,  which  showed  that  rates  of  hypocarbia  at  any 
single  time  point  were  comparable  across  the  ETV  and  LVD  treatment  groups.  Moreover,  rates 
remained consistent with those observed at baseline suggesting no association to antiviral nucleoside 
therapy.  A  literature  review  did  not  provide  any  firm  explanation  for  hypocarbia  in  patients  with 
chronic hepatitis B. The database of ETV does not support any association with renal tubular acidosis. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Decompensated patients (Study 048) 
Overall,  there  were  no  patterns  of  AEs  that  would  suggest  a  clear  safety  signal  for  ETV.  However 
safety  events  were  consistent  with  the  expected  natural  history  of  the  underlying  decompensated 
cirrhosis. Death rates were 18% in the ETV group and 14% in the ADV group. The greater rates of 
SAEs  (53%)  and  Grade  3-4  AEs  (47%)  observed  in  the  ETV  group  compared  with  the  ADV group 
(29% and 26%, respectively), was difficult to evaluate due to imbalances between groups in baseline 
HBV characteristics. The number of hepatic SAEs was increased in the ETV-treated compared with 
ADV-treated patients (31% vs. 17%). A fatal outcome was reported in 8 (18%) of the ETV-treated and 
4  (11%)  of  the  ADV-treated  patients  with  5  and  4,  respectively,  associated  with  a  hepatic  SAE. 
Information  about  the  increased  safety  risks  of  anti-HBV  therapies  in  decompensated  patients  is 
mentioned in the SPC and further data will be provided post-authorisation. 
HIV/HBV co-infected patients (Study 038) 
The safety profile of ETV in co-infected HIV/HBV LVD-refractory patients seems consistent with the 
one  described  in  HBV  monoinfected  patients,  with  the  exception  of  higher  rate  of  grade  3-4  ALT 
elevations  (18%),  which  seems,  however,  more  likely  related  to  the  high  ALT  levels  reported  at 
baseline  for  these  patients  and  to  the  concomitant  HAART  therapy.  Supplementary  data  were 
provided,  which  showed  that  the  safety  profile  with  regard  to  Grade  3-4  ALT  elevation  was 
comparable to that in nucleoside naïve patients. Two patients discontinued due to hepatic events. No 
new  ALT  flares  occurred  during  the  24-week  open-label  treatment  phase.  The  open-label  report 
provided cumulative 1-year data demonstrating stable HIV RNA suppression and an expected gradual 
rise  in  CD4  counts,  suggesting  that  treatment  with  ETV  does  not  affect  the  outcome  of  co-
administered antiretroviral therapy.  
Liver transplant population (Study 015) 
No relevant safety findings arose from the study conducted in patients with OLT recipients. However, 
the  limited  number  of  patients  in  this  study  (9  subjects)  precludes  a  definite  conclusion  for  this 
population. 
•  Expanded access 
Preliminary  results  (n=  48)  from  an  early  access  programme,  involving  subjects  with  compensated 
chronic hepatitis B who have previously failed, are intolerant or have a contraindication to currently 
authorised  nucleo(t)side  anti-HBV  treatment  treated  with  ETV  1  mg  showed  no  safety  events  that 
were qualitatively different than those reported in phase III clinical study. 
Limited  safety  results  from  the  roll-over  study  AI463901  showed  that  safety  profile  of  the 
combination  treatment  including  ETV  1.0  mg  was  similar  to  that  observed  in  the  phase  II/III  trials. 
The incidence of AEs, SAEs and Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities did not differ from that in phase 
II/III trials, but it is to be noted that the mean duration of therapy in study 901 was shorter (37 weeks). 
Notably there were two cases with severe thrombocytopenic events that were considered drug-related 
48/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(one  had  received  previous  LVD),  one  case  of  mild  pancreatitis  and  one  case  that  had  symptoms 
suggestive of hepatic decompensation in association with an ALT flare.  
Five  malignant  neoplasms,  whereof  two  were  recurrent,  and  12  benign  neoplasms  were  observed. 
There was no case of HCC reported. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
(cid:131)   Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
The  safety  specification  covers  all  the  issues  that  are  considered  relevant  for  the  use  of  entecavir  in 
clinical  practice.  Within  the  pharmacovigilance  plan,  most  of  the  activities  planned  are  routine 
pharmacovigilance practices. From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in phase III 
clinical trials have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. In addition, the applicant 
undertook to closely monitor the following adverse reactions and report them in the PSUR according 
to  the  normal  PSUR  schedule,  using  the  International  birth  date  (29  March  2005)  neurological  and 
psychiatric  events,  musculoskeletal  disorders  and  gastrointestinal  disorders.  Cases  of  entecavir 
exposure  during  pregnancy  will  also  be  presented  in  the  PSURs.  Moreover,  the  applicant  is 
participating  in  a  Pregnancy  Registry  to  monitor  foetal  outcomes  following  ETV  exposure  during 
pregnancy. 
Table 31: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Malignancies 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
AI463080  -  Long-term  outcomes  study, 
including malignancies  
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
AI463-901,  050  and  049  -  includes  long-
term cancer surveillance during 5 years in 
approximately 1500 patients  
Special attention in the PSUR 
Class labelling warning on lactic acidosis 
in the SPC. 
Mitochondrial  toxicity 
in 
lactic 
particular 
acidosis syndrome 
On treatment and post-
treatment  exacerbation 
of hepatitis 
Special attention in the PSUR 
Warning in SPC  
To  monitor  during  therapy  patients  with 
cirrhosis as they may be at a higher risk 
for  hepatic  decompensation  following 
hepatitis exacerbation 
clinical 
at 
for 
discontinuation 
Post-treatment exacerbations:  
To  monitor  hepatic  function  at  repeated 
and 
both 
intervals  with 
least 
follow-up 
laboratory 
6 months 
of 
after 
hepatitis B therapy 
to  regularly  monitor 
these 
Warning 
for  clinical,  virologic  and 
patients 
serologic  parameters  associated  with 
hepatitis  B,  liver  and  renal  function  and 
antiviral  response  during  treatment,  and 
if treatment is discontinued for at least 6 
49/55 
©EMEA 2006 
Safety  and  efficacy  in 
patients  with  hepatic 
decompensation 
Ongoing study 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long  term  durability 
and clinical outcome 
Resistance 
Roll-over  studies  and  large  observational 
study (AI463080) 
Genotypic analysis of clinical failures and 
patients  with  detectable  HBV  DNA  and 
additional  analysessuch  as  predictive  host 
and  viral  factors  and  cross-resistance  to 
better  estimate 
impact  of  ETV 
the 
resistance. 
months after treatment. 
Warning to monitor virological response 
in  the  LVD  refractory  population,  the 
increased risk of resistance development  
and  to  perform  appropriate  resistance 
testing.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. The active substance is well characterised and documented. The pharmaceutical 
forms selected are adequate taking into account the properties and the stability of the drug substance. 
The  excipients  are  commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well 
documented.  The  manufacturing  process  enhances  to  obtain  reproducible  finished  product  batches. 
Stability tests under ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life.  
Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Entecavir is a nucleoside analogue with activity against HBV polymerase. Entecavir showed antiviral 
activity  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  models  compatible  with  clinical  use  for  the  treatment  of  hepatitis  B. 
Although  lamivudine-resistant  virus  had  decreased  susceptibility  to  entecavir,  data  indicated  that  it 
may be a therapeutic option for lamivudine-refractory HBV patients. 
The pharmacokinetics of entecavir has been adequately studied and high systemic exposures compared 
to the intended human exposure were achieved in all species. From a pharmacokinetic point of view 
the results from nonclinical studies may therefore be considered valuable. 
In the repeat dose toxicity studies the range of target organs depended to a certain extent on species. 
For  instance  central  nervous  system  inflammation  was  recorded  in  dogs  but  not  in  monkeys.  Liver 
toxicity was mainly expressed in rats and mice. Gastro-intestinal toxicity was evident in rats and dogs 
but  not  in  mice  or  monkeys.  In  a  12  months  study  in  monkeys,  no  apparent  toxicity  was  reported. 
Although mitochondrial changes were observed in some rat studies, overall, no specific mitochondrial 
toxicity  induced  by  entecavir  was  reported  in  limited  studies  and  little  inhibitory  activity  on 
polymerase γ was evident in in vitro studies. In vitro and in vivo studies do not suggest that entecavir 
has any potential for QT prolongation. Entecavir crosses the placenta in rats and is found in milk of 
lactating  animals.  In  reproductive  toxicology,  there  was  no  evidence  of  impaired  fertility  or 
embryotoxicity. Embryo-foetal toxicity was observed at high exposure in rats. Considering these data 
and the lack of data in pregnant women, the SPC recommends that entecavir should not be used during 
pregnancy unless clearly necessary and that breastfeeding should be discontinued during treatment. 
Entecavir  showed  genotoxic  potential  in  one  test  (human  lymphocyte  test).  In  long  term  rodent 
carcinogenicity  studies,  entecavir  induced  tumours  in  both  genders  in  mice  and  rats.  In  mice  lung 
tumours developed at low doses and data indicate that a key event in the development of lung lesions 
50/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exhibited mouse specificity/selectivity. In vitro studies also showed that entecavir-TP was formed to a 
greater extent in mouse macrophages and pneumocytes than in rat such that a role of entecavir induced 
perturbation  of  dNTP  pools  cannot  also  be  excluded.  In  rat,  gliomas  of  microglial  origin  were 
observed and experimental data are consistent with that entecavir-TP levels above a certain threshold 
level may cause generalized dNTP pool perturbations and represents a plausible mechanism that may 
contribute to tumour development in susceptible tissues/organs. The predictivity of the data for human 
is not known. The applicant committed to further address post-authorisation the effects of combination 
of nucleoside/nucleotide analogues that could be used in the treatment of hepatitis B on clastogenicity 
and  dNTP  pools  as  well  as  to  investigate  in  other  species  the  binding  of  entecavir  to  receptors, that 
could play a role in the emergence of lung tumours. 
Efficacy 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  entecavir  is  characterised  by  a  rapid  absorption,  low  binding  to 
plasma proteins, excretion primarily via renal route. Administration of food with entecavir resulted in 
decrease  exposure.  In  treatment  naïve  patients  this  is  not  expected  to  influence  the  efficacy  so 
entecavir can be taken with or without food while in lamivudine refractory patients this could result in 
lower efficacy. Therefore for lamivudine-refractory patients the SPC recommends the administration 
of entecavir without food, at least 2 hours before or after a meal. Because entecavir is primarily renally 
excreted  unchanged,  renal  impairment  may  increase  entecavir  exposure.  Therefore  for  patients  with 
moderate  or  severe  renal  impairment  or  end  stage  renal  disease,  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  as 
reflected in the SPC. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment. Since 
entecavir  is  not  a  substrate,  inducer  and  inhibitor  of  CYP450  isoenzymes  or  P-gP,  the  interaction 
potential  is  low.  No  interaction  was  observed  with  lamivudine,  adefovir  or  tenofovir,  all  excreted 
renally  via  active  tubular  secretion,  nonetheless  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  there  may  be  interaction 
with other substances undergoing active renal secretion as highlighted in the SPC. 
The clinical development of entecavir mainly consists of four well designed multicentre, randomised 
and  double  blind  studies  (one  phase  II  and  three  phase  III)  that  compare  the  efficacy  of  entecavir 
versus lamivudine in patients with chronic hepatitis B and compensated liver disease.  
Two  of  these  studies  were  conducted  in  nucleoside  naïve  patients  (022  HBeAg  positive  and  027 
HBeAg  negative)  and  compared  entecavir  (0.5  mg  once  a  day)  to  lamivudine  (100  mg  once  a  day). 
The  remaining  studies  (014  and  026  HBeAg  positive)  were  conducted  in  lamivudine  refractory 
patients,  defined  as  viraemic  on  lamivudine  or  with  documented  lamivudine  resistance  mutations. 
Study 014 was a dose ranging study, and the dose in 026 was 1 mg once a day. 
The age ranges (mid 30 – mid 40s) and the male predominance in the ETV trials (75 %) reflect the 
natural course of chronic hepatitis B. 
All  studies  had  a  52-week  duration  of  blinded  treatment  and  a  24-week  follow-up  period.  In  all 
studies,  subjects  with  partial  response  continued  blinded  treatment  for  up  to  76-96  weeks.  Patient 
management  decisions  at  Week  52  were  based  on  treatment  response  at  Week  48.  Complete 
responders (defined as undetectable HBV DNA <0.7 MEq/ml together with either - loss of HBeAg in 
studies  022  and  026  or  -  normal  ALT  in  study  027  performed HBeAg negative patients) could stop 
treatment and be followed off treatment for 24 weeks. Partial responders (HBV DNA < 0.7 MEq/ml 
by bDNA assay but either still positive for HBeAg or with ALT >1.25 ULN) were to continue blinded 
treatment until complete response was achieved or until Week 96, whichever occurred first. The use of 
the less sensitive bDNA assay and HBeAg loss in the criteria could be criticised, but since the more 
sensitive PCR assay was used in parallel for quantification of HBV DNA and HBeAg seroconversion 
was included in the secondary endpoints, it could be considered satisfactory.  
Nucleoside-naïve patients:  
In  study  022  (HBeAg  positive  patients)  ETV  0.5  mg  was  superior  to  LVD  at  48  weeks  in  the  pre-
specified endpoint of histological improvement with 72 % achieving this endpoint compared to 62 % 
in lamivudine group. ETV was also superior for several secondary endpoints, including the proportion 
of  patients  achieving  HBV  DNA  below  300  copies/ml  by  PCR  (67  %  versus  36  %),  the  mean 
51/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction  from  baseline  of  HBV  DNA level by PCR (ETV – 6.86 log10 copies/ml versus – 5.39 for 
lamivudine) and the proportion of patients who achieved ALT < 1.0 upper limit of normal (ETV 68 % 
versus 60 %). ETV patients with a partial response experienced incremental benefit during the second 
year  of  treatment,  although  HBeAg  seroconversion  rates were low in both treatment groups and did 
not differ at Week 96 between treatment groups (ETV 31%; LVD 26%). The ETV dose of 0.5 mg was 
considered  optimal  based  on  PK/PD  analyses  and  efficacy  data.  Genotypic  analysis  of  HBV  DNA 
from nucleoside-naïve patients treated for up to 96 weeks identified no genotypic changes associated 
with  phenotypic  resistance  to  entecavir.  For  patients  who  met  protocol-defined  response  criteria  at 
Week 48, response was sustained throughout the 24-week post-treatment follow-up in 75% (83/111) 
of entecavir responders vs 73% (68/93) for lamivudine responders. The optimal treatment duration is, 
however,  not  known.  Based  on  the  stopping  rule  of  this  study,  re-evaluation  of  data  which  did  not 
indicate  that  24  weeks  of  consolidation  was  clearly  preferable  to  12  weeks,  and  in  accordance  with 
international treatment guidelines for the consolidation phase, the SPC recommends that ETV should 
be  administered  at  least  until  HBe  seroconversion  (HBeAg  loss  and  HBV  DNA  loss  with  anti-HBe 
detection on two consecutive serum samples at least 3-6 months apart) or until HBs seroconversion or 
there is loss of efficacy. 
In  study  027  (HBeAg  negative  patients)  ETV  0.5  mg  was  superior  to  LVD  at  48  weeks  in  the  pre-
specified endpoint of histological improvement with 70 % achieving this endpoint compared to 61 % 
in lamivudine group. ETV was also superior for several secondary endpoints, including the proportion 
of patients achieving HBV DNA below 300 copies/ml by PCR (90 % versus 72 %), reduction from 
baseline of HBV DNA level by PCR (ETV – 5.04 log10 copies/ml versus – 4.53 for lamivudine) and 
the proportion of patients who achieved ALT < 1.0 upper limit of normal (ETV 78 % versus 71 %). 
Data  suggest  duration  of  treatment  for  at  least  96  weeks,  but  neither  the  appropriate  duration  of 
treatment nor the appropriate endpoints sufficient to discontinue treatment have been determined. For 
patients  who  met  protocol-defined  response  criteria  at  Week  48,  response  was  sustained  throughout 
the  24-week  post-treatment  follow-up  in  46%  for  HBeAg  negative  patients.  By  48  weeks  of  post-
treatment follow-up a substantial number of patients lost response. 
The  proposed  generic  stopping  criteria,  i.e.  HBsAg  seroconversion  seem acceptable when combined 
with a recommendation of regular reassessment of treatment when continued for more than 2 years. 
LVD refractory population (HBeAg positive): 
In study 026, ETV 1 mg was superior to LVD at 48 weeks in the pre-specified co-primary endpoint of 
histological improvement with 55 % achieving this endpoint compared to 28 % in lamivudine group. 
ETV  was  also  superior  for  co-primary  endpoint  of  HBVDNA  <  0.7  Meq/ml  and  ALT  <  1.25  ULN 
(57% versus 4 %). A greater proportion of patients achieving HBV DNA below 300 copies/ml by PCR 
(19 % versus 1 %), the mean reduction from baseline of HBV DNA level by PCR (ETV – 5.11 log10 
copies/ml versus – 0.48 for lamivudine).  
During  the  first  year  of  treatment,  only  19%  of  LVD  refractory  patients  treated  with  entecavir 
achieved  undetectable  HBV  DNA  levels,  which,  however,  increased  to  40%  during  the  second  year 
when 85% of patients also had normalisation of ALT. All Year 1 and 2 data suggest that continuing 
lamivudine provides minimal or no benefit.  
Given that at the time of the initiation of the study lamivudine was the only authorised oral treatment 
for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis  B,  but  that  since  adefovir  has  become  the  recommended 
treatment for lamivudine refractory patients, the usefulness of entecavir as first line in this population 
was questioned. There was also concern of the dose and the increased risk of resistance development 
in  this  population.  Lamivudine  was  shown  to  select  for  the  entecavir  resistance-associated 
substitutions,  as  6%  (23/372)  of  the  lamivudine-refractory  patients  were  shown  to  harbour  these 
substitutions  already  at  baseline.  During  the  first  year  of  entecavir  therapy,  6%  (12/189)  of  patients 
were  demonstrated  to  have  new  emergence  of  entecavir  resistance-associated  substitutions.  Two 
patients  experienced  a  virological  rebound  by  Week  48,  with  the  majority  of  the  12  patients 
experiencing virological failure during the second year of treatment. The total frequency of virological 
rebounds due to entecavir resistance up to Week 96 was 9% (14/155). 
The  applicant  provided  additional  data  to  address  these  concerns.  With  respect  to  the  dose,  PK/PD 
profile suggested that the 1.0 mg ETV dose was  acceptable, since even a  large dose increase would 
only result in modest increase in efficacy. Moreover, the preclinical concern of a carcinogenic effect 
of  entecavir  with  a  threshold  level  is  regarded  as  a  limiting  factor  for  exploring  any  dose  increase. 
52/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Sustained response rates in complete responders that discontinued ETV therapy at Week 48 were 50% 
(11 of 22 patients) for LVD refractory patients at 24 weeks off treatment 
With respect to the efficacy, cross study comparisons with adefovir suggested that both products have 
comparable  efficacy  against  lamivudine  resistant  HBV  with  respect  to  response  rates  for  virological 
endpoints at 48 weeks. For instance in study 461 (3-arm trial of monotherapy with ADV versus add-
on ADV with continued LVD versus continued LVD alone), the median decreases in HBV DNA from 
baseline were -4.04 log10 copies/ml (ADV only) and -3.59 log10 copies/ml (ADV+LVD) at Week 48. 
The  proportion  achieving  an  HBV  DNA  <1000  copies/ml  was  5/19  (20%)  and  7/21  (35%), 
respectively.  By  comparison,  Week  48  results  from  the  ETV  Study  026  demonstrated  a  median 
reduction of -4.73 log10 copies/ml and a 26% rate of HBV DNA <1000 copies/ml. 
With respect to resistance, more recent literature data suggest higher probably resistance to adefovir 
rate  in  LVD  refractory  patients,  with  rates  up  to  22%  after  2  year  of  therapy1.  Data  from  the  other 
reports  on  ADV  treatment  only  published  as  abstracts  support  these  findings,  and  indicate  that  the 
emergence of ADV mutations appears to be more frequent among LVD refractory patients (15-58% in 
Year 2) than that previously reported in nucleoside-naive patients. Currently, there is no evidence that 
ETVr have any detrimental effect on the clinical efficacy of subsequent ADV or tenofovir. Short-term 
limited clinical data indicate that ETV is effective against ADVr virus and that ADV is active against 
ETVr  virus.  Whether  substitution  or  add-on-therapy  should  be  used  in  patients  harbouring  resistant 
viruses is not known and needs to be further evaluated in the post-approval period. Therefore, from an 
efficacy,  safety  and  resistance  perspective  ETV  is  considered  as  a  valuable  addition  in  first-line 
treatment  of  this  difficult-to-treat  population.  Management  of  LVD  refractory  patients  requires 
nonetheless close monitoring of antiviral response during treatment and early use of resistance testing 
in patients with a suboptimal response, as recommended in the SPC. 
The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  results  from  the  roll-over  studies,  as  part  of  the  follow-up 
measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation, looking particularly at some efficacy issues (e.g. optimal 
treatment  duration  and  development  of  stopping  criteria,  maintenance  of  virological  suppression 
beyond 24 weeks off-treatment, long-term durability of HBeAg seroconversion beyond 24 weeks off-
treatment and the rate of new events, incidence of late HBsAg seroconversion, long-term clinical and 
histological outcomes and emergence of long term resistance). 
Interim  reports  were  provided  for  the  ongoing  studies  in  HBV/HIV  co-infected  patients  (AI463038) 
and  decompensated  patients  (AI463048).  The  data  from  both  trials  suggested  that  ETV  therapy 
provided significant virological effects. The mean change from baseline in HBV DNA was -3.66 log10 
copies/ml  at  Week  24  and  -4.20  log10  copies/ml  at  Week  48  in  LVD-refractory  co-infected  patients 
and -4.20 log10copies/ml in decompensated patients at Week 24. The data on co-infected patients are, 
however, not considered representative for all HIV populations since the majority of subjects had CD4 
cell counts above 200 cells/mm3. The demographics of this population is therefore detailed in the SPC. 
Overall, these preliminary data are very promising, but as yet limited and the applicant undertook to 
provide  the  final  results  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation.  The 
applicant also undertook to conduct further studies to evaluate the efficacy of ETV in orthotopic liver 
transplant patients, in HBV/HIV co-infected patients and using combination therapy.  
There are currently no data to support the use of entecavir in children but the applicant undertook to 
complete the development programme in this population. 
Safety 
Assessment  of  adverse  reactions  was  mainly  based  on  four  clinical  studies  in  which  1,720 patients 
with  chronic  hepatitis B  infection  both  in  nucleoside-naïve  and  LVD-refractory  patients  with 
compensated chronic hepatitis B infection, received double-blind treatment with entecavir 0.5 mg/day 
(n = 679),  entecavir  1 mg/day  (n = 183),  or  lamivudine  (n = 858)  for  up  to  107 weeks.  The  safety 
profiles of entecavir and lamivudine, including laboratory test abnormalities, were comparable in these 
studies. 
1 Fung SK et al J Hepatol 2006:44:2983 
53/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The most common adverse reactions of any severity with at least a possible relation to entecavir were 
headache (9%), fatigue (6%), dizziness (4%) and nausea (3%). 
No new safety signal occurred during the 2nd year of treatment compared to the 1st year. Although the 
ETV  clinical  development  programme  was  relatively  large,  the  size  of  the  ETV  programme  and  the 
observation time of treated patients (2-3 years) is insufficient to define long-term risk for infrequent 
events or events with a long latency period. Similarly, although the clinical programme covered a wide 
range  of  HIV-infected  population,  there  is  a  need  to  further  characterise  the  safety  profile  in  some 
special population such as decompensated patients. This has been addressed in the risk management 
plan and the ongoing studies in this population and those studies looking at the long-term use of ETV 
will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. Identified risks, 
appropriately  addressed  in  the  submitted  Risk  Management  Plan,  include  potential  mitochondrial 
toxicity in particular lactic acidosis (safety issue related to nucleos(t)ide analogues), on-treatment and 
post-treatment  exacerbations  of  hepatitis  (based  on  current  experience  with  treatment  for  chronic 
hepatitis  B)  and  emergence  of  resistance  to  ETV.  The  key  safety  issue  is  entecavir´s  potential 
carcinogenicity deriving first, from the inherent risk of HCC and other malignancies (e.g., lymphoma), 
related to HBV itself, and second, from the possible increased risk of non-HCC malignant neoplasms 
in  light  of  the  rodent  carcinogenicity  findings.  Although the mechanistic assessment and the current 
safety data do not indicate any signal for increased rate of human cancer, the theoretical concern for an 
increased  risk  on  non-HCC  cancers  to  humans  is  to  be  ascertained  with  long-term  follow-up.  The 
applicant will therefore conduct a large (over 10,000 patients), global, open-label observational study 
aimed  at  examining  the  long-term  benefits  and  risks  of  ETV  therapy.  The  proposed  study  will 
compare rates of HBV disease progression (including HCC), mortality and development of malignant 
neoplasms (overall number of malignancies and non-HCC malignancies, in each case excluding non-
melanoma skin cancer) in patients with chronic HBV infection who are randomised to nucleoside/tide 
monotherapy with either ETV or another standard of care HBV nucleoside/tide analogue and followed 
over an observation period of up to 10 years. The population will be a broad group of patients with 
chronic  HBV  infection  who  are  initiating  HBV  therapy  or  treatment  experienced  and  in  need  of 
alternate nucleoside/tide therapy.  
Moreover, new and recurring malignancies observed in ETV clinical studies will be monitored during 
a 5-year follow-up period in approximately 1500 subjects.  
From  the  safety  database  ETV  related  AE’s  reported  in  the  clinical  trials  have  been  included  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics.  
All the information has been appropriately translated into the package leaflet for which a user test has 
been adequately performed. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  clinical  experience  included  different  patient  populations  recruited  worldwide,  with  Asians  and 
Caucasians  particularly  well  represented:  nucleoside-naïve  and  lamivudine-  refractory  patients; 
HBeAg  positive  and  negative;  transplant,  HIV  co-infected  patients  and  in  an  on-going  trial 
decompensated  patients.  This  is  in  line  with  the  spirit  of  the  guideline  related  to  anti-hepatitis  B 
medicinal products. 
Based on the clinical efficacy, safety and resistance data of entecavir, which were overall superior or 
comparable  to  the  current  anti-HBV  compounds,  the  benefit  risk  ratio  of  entecavir  is  considered 
positive  in  the  naïve  population  with  compensated  chronic  hepatitis  B,  as  well  as  in  lamivudine-
refractory patients which is a difficult-to-treat population. Preliminary results showed also efficacy of 
entecavir in HBV/HIV co-infected patients and in patients with decompensated disease. Although the 
antiviral efficacy of entecavir has been demonstrated, a number of clinical questions related to the use 
of  entecavir  in  the  management  of  hepatitis  B  infected  patients  (e.g  optimal  duration  of  treatment, 
durability)  will  be  addressed  post-authorisation.  The  chronic  nature  of  hepatitis  B  virus  therapy  and 
long-term  disease  outcomes  are  such  that  clinical  trials  do  not  fully  address  long-term  risk  of  HBV 
therapy. A Risk Management Plan was submitted and includes agreed pharmacovigilance activities to 
further  define  the  safety  profile  post-authorisation.  The  theoretical  concern  for  an  increased  risk  on 
non-HCC cancers to humans based on the carcinogenicity findings in rodents will be addressed in a 
large randomised prospective observational study with long-term follow-up.  
54/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Due to the nature of the disease, ETV therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the 
management of chronic hepatitis B. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of Baraclude in the following indication: 
•  Treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis B  virus  (HBV)  infection  in  adults  with  compensated  liver 
disease  and  evidence  of  active  viral  replication,  persistently  elevated  serum  alanine 
aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active  inflammation  and/or 
fibrosis.  This  indication  is  based  on  clinical  trial  data  in  patients  with  HBeAg  positive  and 
HBeAg  negative  HBV  infection,  nucleoside  naive  patients  and  patients  with  lamivudine-
refractory hepatitis B (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics).  
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
55/55 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
