EMA/110175/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005652 
Bekemv (eculizumab) 
An overview of Bekemv and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Bekemv and what is it used for? 
Bekemv is a medicine used to treat adults and children with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
(PNH), a disease in which excessive breakdown of blood cells results in anaemia (low levels of red 
blood cells), thrombosis (blood clots in blood vessels), pancytopenia (low levels of blood cells) and 
dark urine. 
Bekemv is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Bekemv is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Bekemv is Soliris. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Bekemv contains the active substance eculizumab. 
How is Bekemv used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given by a healthcare professional 
and under the supervision of a doctor familiar with blood diseases. 
Bekemv is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein over 25 to 45 minutes (adults) or 1 to 4 hours 
(children) every week for the first 2 to 5 weeks and every 2 weeks thereafter. Patients are monitored 
for any reactions during the infusion and for at least one hour afterwards. 
Patients who have no major side effects with the first infusions may be able to have their infusions 
given at home by a healthcare professional. 
Bekemv should be given for life unless the patient develops serious side effects. 
For more information about using Bekemv, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Bekemv work? 
The complement system is a set of proteins that is part of the immune system (the body’s natural 
defences). In patients with PNH, the complement system is over-active and damages the patients’ own 
blood cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Bekemv, eculizumab, is an antibody (a type of protein) designed to attach to 
the C5 protein of the complement system. By blocking C5, eculizumab prevents the complement 
system from damaging cells, thereby helping to relieve the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Bekemv have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Bekemv with Soliris have shown that the active substance in Bekemv is 
highly similar to that in Soliris in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Bekemv produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving Soliris. 
In addition, a study involving 42 patients with PNH showed that Bekemv and the reference medicine, 
Soliris, prevented the breakdown of red blood cells in a similar manner. 
Because Bekemv is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of eculizumab carried 
out with Soliris do not all need to be repeated for Bekemv. 
What are the risks associated with Bekemv? 
The safety of Bekemv has been evaluated, and based on all the studies carried out, the side effects of 
the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Soliris. 
For the complete list of side effects and restrictions of Bekemv, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effect with Bekemv (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is headache 
and the most serious side effect is meningococcal sepsis (when a bacteria infects the bloodstream, 
causing bleeding of the skin and organs). 
Bekemv must not be given to children below 2 years of age, and to patients with a hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI, inherited inability to digest fructose (fruit sugar)). It must also not be given to 
patients who have an ongoing infection by the bacteria Neisseria meningitidis, or those who are not 
currently vaccinated against it unless they receive antibiotics to prevent infection until 2 weeks after 
vaccination. 
Why is Bekemv authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Bekemv has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Soliris and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in patients with PNH have shown that the 
safety and effectiveness of Bekemv is equivalent to that of Soliris. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Bekemv will behave in the same way as 
Soliris in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Soliris, the benefits of Bekemv outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bekemv? 
The company that markets Bekemv will ensure that the distribution of the medicine occurs only after 
checking that the patient has been vaccinated appropriately and will send reminders to prescribers or 
pharmacists to check the vaccination status of patients. 
Bekemv (eculizumab)  
EMA/110175/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The company will provide prescribers and patients with a guide on the safety of the medicine. Patients 
will also be given a ‘safety card’ that explains the symptoms of certain types of infection, instructing 
patients to seek medical care immediately if they experience them, and will include a reminder that the 
medicine must not be given to children below 2 years of age and to patients who have HFI. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bekemv have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Bekemv are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Bekemv are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Bekemv 
Bekemv received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 April 2023. 
Further information on Bekemv can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/bekemv. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2023. 
Bekemv (eculizumab)  
EMA/110175/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
