ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
BEKEMV 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
Eculizumab is a humanised monoclonal (IgG2/4κ) antibody produced in CHO cell line by recombinant 
DNA technology. 
One vial of 30 mL contains 300 mg of eculizumab (10 mg/mL). 
Excipients with known effect  
Each mL of solution contains 50 mg sorbitol. Each vial contains 1 500 mg sorbitol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Concentrate for solution for infusion.  
Clear to opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow, pH 5.2 solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
BEKEMV is indicated in adults and children for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria (PNH). Evidence of clinical benefit is demonstrated in patients with haemolysis with 
clinical symptom(s) indicative of high disease activity, regardless of transfusion history (see section 
5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
BEKEMV must be administered by a healthcare professional and under the supervision of a physician 
experienced in the management of patients with haematological disorders. 
Home infusion may be considered for patients who have tolerated infusions well in the clinic. The 
decision of a patient to receive home infusions should be made after evaluation and recommendation 
from the treating physician. Home infusions should be performed by a qualified healthcare 
professional. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
PNH in adults  
The PNH dosing regimen for adult patients (≥ 18 years of age) consists of a 4-week initial phase 
followed by a maintenance phase: 
• 
Initial phase: 600 mg of BEKEMV administered via a 25 – 45 minute 
(35 minutes ± 10 minutes) intravenous infusion every week for the first 4 weeks. 
• 
Maintenance phase: 900 mg of BEKEMV administered via a 25 – 45 minute (35 minutes ± 10 
minutes) intravenous infusion for the fifth week, followed by 900 mg of BEKEMV 
administered via a 25 – 45 minute (35 minutes ± 10 minutes) intravenous infusion every 
14 ± 2 days (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric patients in PNH 
Paediatric PNH patients with body weight ≥ 40 kg are treated with the adult dosing recommendations. 
BEKEMV is contraindicated in children below 2 years of age (see section 4.3). 
In paediatric PNH patients above 2 years of age and with body weight below 40 kg, the BEKEMV 
dosing regimen consists of: 
Patient body 
weight 
30 to < 40 kg 
20 to < 30 kg 
10 to < 20 kg 
5 to < 10 kg 
Initial phase 
Maintenance phase 
600 mg weekly for the 
first 2 weeks 
600 mg weekly for the 
first 2 weeks 
600 mg single dose at 
week 1 
300 mg single dose at 
week 1 
900 mg at week 3; then 900 mg every 2 weeks 
600 mg at week 3; then 600 mg every 2 weeks 
300 mg at week 2; then 300 mg every 2 weeks 
300 mg at week 2; then 300 mg every 3 weeks 
Eculizumab has not been studied in patients with PNH who weigh less than 40 kg.  
Duration of use 
BEKEMV treatment is recommended to continue for the patient’s lifetime, unless the discontinuation 
of BEKEMV is clinically indicated (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
BEKEMV may be administered to patients aged 65 years and over. There is no evidence to suggest 
that any special precautions are needed when older people are treated – although experience with 
eculizumab in this patient population is still limited. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of BEKEMV have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
BEKEMV should not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. BEKEMV should 
only be administered via intravenous infusion as described below. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
The diluted solution of BEKEMV should be administered by intravenous infusion over 
25 - 45 minutes (35 minutes ± 10 minutes) in adults and 1 - 4 hours in paediatric patients under 
18 years of age via gravity feed, a syringe-type pump, or an infusion pump. It is not necessary to 
protect the diluted solution of BEKEMV from light during administration to the patient. 
Patients should be monitored for one hour following infusion. If an adverse event occurs during the 
administration of BEKEMV, the infusion may be slowed or stopped at the discretion of the physician. 
If the infusion is slowed, the total infusion time may not exceed two hours in adults and four hours in 
paediatric patients under 18 years of age. 
There is limited safety data supporting home-based infusions, additional precautions in the home 
setting such as availability of emergency treatment of infusion reactions or anaphylaxis are 
recommended. 
Infusion reactions are described in sections 4.4 and 4.8.  
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to eculizumab or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
BEKEMV is contraindicated in subjects with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI). Prior to initiating 
treatment HFI should be excluded on age-appropriate clinical grounds (see section 4.4).  
BEKEMV is contraindicated in babies and children below 2 years of age since they may not yet be 
diagnosed with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) (see section 4.4). 
BEKEMV therapy must not be initiated in patients (see section 4.4): 
- 
- 
with unresolved Neisseria meningitidis infection 
who are not currently vaccinated against Neisseria meningitidis unless they receive prophylactic 
treatment with appropriate antibiotics until 2 weeks after vaccination. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
BEKEMV is not expected to affect the aplastic component of anaemia in patients with PNH.  
Meningococcal infection 
Due to its mechanism of action, the use of BEKEMV increases the patient’s susceptibility to 
meningococcal infection (Neisseria meningitidis). Meningococcal disease due to any serogroup may 
occur. To reduce the risk of infection, all patients must be vaccinated at least 2 weeks prior to 
receiving BEKEMV unless the risk of delaying BEKEMV therapy outweighs the risks of developing a 
meningococcal infection. Patients who initiate BEKEMV treatment less than 2 weeks after receiving a 
tetravalent meningococcal vaccine must receive treatment with appropriate prophylactic antibiotics 
until 2 weeks after vaccination. Vaccines against serogroups A, C, Y, and W 135, are recommended in 
preventing the commonly pathogenic meningococcal serogroups. Vaccine against serogroup B where 
available is also recommended. Patients must receive vaccination according to current national 
vaccination guidelines for vaccination use. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccination may further activate complement. As a result, patients with complement-mediated 
diseases, including PNH, may experience increased signs and symptoms of their underlying disease, 
such as haemolysis (PNH). Therefore, patients should be closely monitored for disease symptoms after 
recommended vaccination. 
Vaccination may not be sufficient to prevent meningococcal infection. Consideration should be given 
to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. Cases of serious or fatal 
meningococcal infections have been reported in eculizumab-treated patients. Sepsis is a common 
presentation of meningococcal infections in patients treated with eculizumab (see section 4.8). All 
patients should be monitored for early signs of meningococcal infection, evaluated immediately if 
infection is suspected, and treated with appropriate antibiotics if necessary. Patients should be 
informed of these signs and symptoms and steps taken to seek medical care immediately. Physicians 
must discuss the benefits and risks of BEKEMV therapy with patients and provide them with a patient 
information brochure and a patient safety card (see package leaflet for a description). 
Other systemic infections 
Due to its mechanism of action, BEKEMV therapy should be administered with caution to patients 
with active systemic infections. Patients may have increased susceptibility to infections, especially 
with Neisseria and encapsulated bacteria. Serious infections with Neisseria species (other than 
Neisseria meningitidis), including disseminated gonococcal infections, have been reported. 
Patients should be provided with information from the package leaflet to increase their awareness of 
potential serious infections and the signs and symptoms of them. Physicians should advise patients 
about gonorrhoea prevention. 
Infusion reactions 
Administration of BEKEMV may result in infusion reactions or immunogenicity that could cause 
allergic or hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis). In clinical trials, 1 (0.9%) refractory 
generalised myasthenia gravis (gMG) patient experienced an infusion reaction which required 
discontinuation of eculizumab. No PNH patients experienced an infusion reaction which required 
discontinuation of eculizumab. BEKEMV administration should be interrupted in all patients 
experiencing severe infusion reactions and appropriate medical therapy administered. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-eculizumab antibodies may develop during eculizumab treatment. No apparent correlation of 
antibody development with clinical response or adverse events has been observed. 
Immunisation 
Prior to initiating BEKEMV therapy, it is recommended that PNH patients initiate immunisations 
according to current immunisation guidelines. Additionally, all patients must be vaccinated against 
meningococcal infections at least 2 weeks prior to receiving BEKEMV unless the risk of delaying 
BEKEMV therapy outweighs the risks of developing a meningococcal infection. Patients who initiate 
BEKEMV treatment less than 2 weeks after receiving a tetravalent meningococcal vaccine must 
receive treatment with appropriate prophylactic antibiotics until 2 weeks after vaccination. Vaccines 
against serogroups A, C, Y and W 135 are recommended in preventing the commonly pathogenic 
meningococcal serogroups. Vaccine against serogroup B where available is also recommended (see 
meningococcal infection). 
Patients less than 18 years of age must be vaccinated against Haemophilus influenzae and 
pneumococcal infections, and strictly need to adhere to the national vaccination recommendations for 
each age group. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccination may further activate complement. As a result, patients with complement-mediated 
diseases, including PNH may experience increased signs and symptoms of their underlying disease, 
such as haemolysis (PNH). Therefore, patients should be closely monitored for disease symptoms after 
recommended vaccination. 
Anticoagulant therapy 
Treatment with BEKEMV should not alter anticoagulant management.  
PNH laboratory monitoring 
PNH patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of intravascular haemolysis, including 
serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels. PNH patients receiving BEKEMV therapy should be 
similarly monitored for intravascular haemolysis by measuring LDH levels and may require dose 
adjustment within the recommended 14 ± 2 day dosing schedule during the maintenance phase (up to 
every 12 days). 
Treatment discontinuation for PNH 
If PNH patients discontinue treatment with BEKEMV they should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of serious intravascular haemolysis. Serious haemolysis is identified by serum LDH levels 
greater than the pre-treatment level, along with any of the following: greater than 25% absolute 
decrease in PNH clone size (in the absence of dilution due to transfusion) in one week or less; a 
haemoglobin level of < 5 g/dL or a decrease of > 4 g/dL in one week or less; angina; change in mental 
status; a 50% increase in serum creatinine level; or thrombosis. Monitor any patient who discontinues 
BEKEMV for at least 8 weeks to detect serious haemolysis and other reactions. 
If serious haemolysis occurs after BEKEMV discontinuation, consider the following 
procedures/treatments: blood transfusion (packed red blood cells or RBCs), or exchange transfusion if 
the PNH RBCs are > 50% of the total RBCs by flow cytometry; anticoagulation; corticosteroids; or 
reinstitution of BEKEMV. In PNH clinical studies, 16 patients discontinued the eculizumab treatment 
regimen. Serious haemolysis was not observed. 
Educational materials 
All physicians who intend to prescribe BEKEMV must ensure they are familiar with the physician’s 
guide to prescribing. Physicians must discuss the benefits and risks of BEKEMV therapy with patients 
and provide them with a patient information brochure and a patient safety card. 
Patients should be instructed that if they develop fever, headache accompanied with fever and/or stiff 
neck or sensitivity to light, they should immediately seek medical care as these signs may be 
indicative of meningococcal infection. 
Excipients with known effect 
Sorbitol 
Each mL of this medicinal product contains 50 mg of sorbitol (E420). Patients with hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI) must not take this medicine. In HFI patients more than 2 years old, a spontaneous 
aversion for fructose-containing foods develops and may be combined with the onset of symptoms 
(vomiting, gastro-intestinal disorders, apathy, height and weight retardation). Therefore, a detailed 
history with regards to HFI symptoms has to be taken of each patient prior to receiving BEKEMV. In 
case of inadvertent administration and suspicion of fructose intolerance the infusion has to be stopped 
immediately, normal glycaemia has to be re-established and organ function has to be stabilized by 
means of intensive care (see section 4.3). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Babies and children (below 2 years of age) may not yet be diagnosed with HFI. Medicines containing 
sorbitol/fructose given intravenously may be life threatening and must be contraindicated in this 
population (see sections 4.2 and 4.3).  
Sodium 
BEKEMV vials contain less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium free”. On dilution with 5% glucose solution, the medicinal product is essentially “sodium 
free”.  
Once diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, this medicinal product 
contains 0.34 g sodium per 180 mL at the maximal dose, equivalent to 17.0% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.  
Once diluted with sodium chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for injection, this medicinal product 
contains 0.18 g sodium per 180 mL at the maximal dose, equivalent to 9.0% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
Traceability 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No interaction studies have been performed. Based on the potential inhibitory effect of eculizumab on 
complement-dependent cytotoxicity of rituximab, eculizumab may reduce the expected 
pharmacodynamic effects of rituximab. 
Concomitant use of eculizumab with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) may reduce effectiveness of 
eculizumab. Closely monitor for reduced effectiveness of eculizumab. 
Concomitant use of eculizumab with neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers may lower systemic 
exposures and reduce effectiveness of eculizumab. Closely monitor for reduced effectiveness of 
eculizumab. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
The use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and for at least 5 months after the last dose of 
treatment with eculizumab should be considered for women of childbearing potential. 
Pregnancy 
There are no well-controlled studies in pregnant women treated with eculizumab. Data on a limited 
number of pregnancies exposed to eculizumab (less than 300 pregnancy outcomes) indicate there is no 
increased risk of foetal malformation or foetal-neonatal toxicity. However, due to the lack of well-
controlled studies, uncertainties remain. Therefore, an individual benefits and risk analysis is 
recommended before starting and during treatment with eculizumab in pregnant women. Should such 
a treatment be considered necessary during pregnancy, a close maternal and foetal monitoring 
according to local guidelines is recommended. 
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with eculizumab (see section 5.3). 
Human IgG are known to cross the human placental barrier, and thus eculizumab may potentially 
cause terminal complement inhibition in the foetal circulation. Therefore, BEKEMV should be given 
to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
No effects on the breastfed new-born/infant are anticipated as limited data available suggest that 
eculizumab is not excreted in human breast milk. However, due to the limitations of the available data, 
the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the mother’s 
clinical need for eculizumab and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from eculizumab 
or from the underlying maternal condition. 
Fertility 
No specific study of eculizumab on fertility has been conducted. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
BEKEMV has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
Supportive safety data were obtained from 33 clinical studies that included 1 555 patients exposed to 
eculizumab in complement-mediated disease populations, including PNH, aHUS, refractory 
generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD). The 
most common adverse reaction was headache, (occurred mostly in the initial phase of dosing), and the 
most serious adverse reaction was meningococcal infection. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in eculizumab completed 
clinical trials, including PNH, aHUS, refractory gMG and NMOSD studies. Adverse reactions 
reported at a very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) 
or rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) frequency with eculizumab, are listed by system organ class and 
preferred term. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1. Adverse reactions reported in eculizumab clinical trials, including patients with PNH, 
aHUS, refractory gMG and NMOSD as well as from post marketing experience 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very 
common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100) 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) 
Aspergillus infectionc,  
Arthritis bacterialc, 
Genitourinary tract 
gonococcal infection,  
Haemophilus influenzae 
infection, 
Impetigo  
Pneumonia,  
Upper respiratory 
tract infection,  
Bronchitis, 
Nasopharyngitis, 
Urinary tract 
infection,  
Oral herpes 
Meningococcal infectionb, 
Sepsis,  
Septic shock,  
Peritonitis,  
Lower respiratory tract 
infection,  
Fungal infection,  
Viral infection,  
Abscessa,  
Cellulitis,  
Influenza, 
Gastrointestinal infection,  
Cystitis,  
Infection,  
Sinusitis, 
Gingivitis 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Very 
common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100) 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) 
Leucopenia,  
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia, 
Lymphopenia 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders   
Insomnia 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache  Dizziness  
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Cough,  
Oropharyngeal pain 
Diarrhoea,  
Vomiting,  
Nausea,  
Abdominal pain 
Rash,  
Pruritus,  
Alopecia 
Arthralgia,  
Myalgia, 
Pain in extremity 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders 
Malignant melanoma, 
Myelodysplastic syndrome 
Haemolysis*,  
Abnormal clotting factor,  
Red blood cell agglutination, 
Coagulopathy 
Basedow’s disease 
Abnormal dreams  
Conjunctival irritation 
Haematoma 
Gastroesophageal reflux 
disease,  
Gingival pain 
Jaundice 
Skin depigmentation 
Trismus, 
Joint swelling 
Menstrual disorder 
Anaphylactic reaction, 
Hypersensitivity 
Decreased appetite 
Depression,  
Anxiety, 
Mood swings, 
Sleep disorder 
Paraesthesia,  
Tremour, 
Dysgeusia, 
Syncope 
Vision blurred 
Tinnitus,  
Vertigo 
Palpitation 
Accelerated hypertension, 
Hypotension,  
Hot flush,  
Vein disorder 
Dyspnoea,  
Epistaxis,  
Throat irritation,  
Nasal congestion,  
Rhinorrhoea 
Constipation,  
Dyspepsia,  
Abdominal distension 
Urticaria,  
Erythema,  
Petechiae,  
Hyperhidrosis,  
Dry skin, 
Dermatitis 
Muscle spasms,  
Bone pain,  
Back pain,  
Neck pain 
Renal impairment, 
Dysuria,  
Haematuria 
Spontaneous penile 
erection 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very 
common 
(≥ 1/10) 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Common (≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100) 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) 
Pyrexia,  
Fatigue,  
Influenza like illness 
Extravasation,  
Infusion site paraesthesia, 
Feeling hot 
Coombs test positivec 
Oedema,  
Chest discomfort,  
Asthaenia, 
Chest pain,  
Infusion site pain,  
Chills 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased,  
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased,  
Gamma- 
glutamyltransferase 
increased,  
Haematocrit decreased, 
Haemoglobin decreased 
Infusion related 
reaction 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
Included studies: asthma (C07-002), aHUS (C08-002, C08-003, C10-003, C10-004), dermatomyositis (C99-
006), refractory gMG (C08-001, ECU-MG-301, ECU-MG-302, ECU-MG-303), Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum 
Disorder (ECU-NMO-301, ECU-NMO-302), IMG (C99-004, E99-004), PNH (C02-001, C04-001, C04-002, 
C06-002, C07-001, E02-001, E05-001, E07-001, M07-005, 
X03-001, X03-001A), psoriasis (C99-007), RA (C01-004, C97-001, C99-001, E01-004, E99-001), STEC-HUS 
(C11-001), SLE (C97-002). MedDRA version 24.1. 
* See ‘Description of selected adverse reactions.’ 
a Abscess includes the following group of preferred terms (PTs): abscess limb, colonic abscess, renal abscess, 
subcutaneous abscess, tooth abscess, hepatosplenic abscess, perirectal abscess, rectal abscess. 
b Meningococcal infection includes the following group of PTs: meningococcal infection, meningococcal sepsis, 
meningitis meningococcal, Neisseria infection. 
c ADRs identified in post marketing reports. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In all clinical studies, the most serious adverse reaction was meningococcal sepsis which is a common 
presentation of meningococcal infections in patients treated with eculizumab (see section 4.4). 
Other cases of Neisseria species have been reported including sepsis with Neisseria gonorrhoeae, 
Neisseria sicca/subflava, Neisseria spp unspecified. 
Antibodies to eculizumab were detected in patients with PNH. As with all proteins there is a potential 
for immunogenicity. 
Cases of haemolysis have been reported in the setting of missed or delayed eculizumab dose in PNH 
clinical trials (see section 4.4). 
Cases of thrombotic microangiopathy complication have been reported in the setting of missed or 
delayed eculizumab dose in aHUS clinical trials. 
Paediatric population 
In children and adolescent PNH patients (aged 11 years to less than 18 years) included in the 
paediatric PNH study M07-005, the safety profile appeared similar to that observed in adult PNH 
patients. The most common adverse reaction reported in paediatric patients was headache. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other special population 
Elderly population 
No overall differences in safety were reported between elderly (≥ 65 years) and younger refractory 
gMG patients (< 65 years) (see section 5.1). 
Patients with other diseases 
Safety data from other clinical studies 
Supportive safety data were obtained in 12 completed clinical studies that included 934 patients 
exposed to eculizumab in other disease populations other than PNH, aHUS, refractory gMG or 
NMOSD. There was an un-vaccinated patient diagnosed with idiopathic membranous 
glomerulonephropathy who experienced meningococcal meningitis. Adverse reactions reported in 
patients with disease other than PNH, aHUS, refractory gMG or NMOSD were similar to those 
reported in patients with PNH, aHUS, refractory gMG or NMOSD (see table 1 above). No specific 
adverse reactions have emerged from these clinical studies. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
No case of overdose has been reported in any of the clinical studies. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AJ01 
BEKEMV is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency; www.ema.europa.eu. 
BEKEMV is a recombinant humanised monoclonal IgG2/4k antibody that binds to the human C5 
complement protein and inhibits the activation of terminal complement. The BEKEMV antibody 
contains human constant regions and murine complementarity-determining regions grafted onto the 
human framework light- and heavy-chain variable regions. BEKEMV is composed of two 448 amino 
acid heavy chains and two 214 amino acid light chains and has a molecular weight of approximately 
148 kDa. 
BEKEMV is produced in a CHO cell line and purified by affinity and ion exchange chromatography. 
The bulk active substance manufacturing process also includes specific viral inactivation and removal 
steps. 
Mechanism of action 
Eculizumab, the active substance in BEKEMV, is a terminal complement inhibitor that specifically 
binds to the complement protein C5 with high affinity, thereby inhibiting its cleavage to C5a and C5b 
and preventing the generation of the terminal complement complex C5b-9. Eculizumab preserves the 
early components of complement activation that are essential for opsonisation of microorganisms and 
clearance of immune complexes. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In PNH patients, uncontrolled terminal complement activation and the resulting complement-mediated 
intravascular haemolysis are blocked with BEKEMV treatment. 
In most PNH patients, eculizumab serum concentrations of approximately 35 micrograms/mL are 
sufficient for essentially complete inhibition of terminal complement-mediated intravascular 
haemolysis. 
In PNH, chronic administration of BEKEMV resulted in a rapid and sustained reduction in 
complement-mediated haemolytic activity. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
The safety and efficacy of eculizumab in PNH patients with haemolysis were assessed in a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 26 week study (C04-001). PNH patients were also 
treated with eculizumab in a single arm 52 week study (C04-002), and in a long-term extension study 
(E05-001). Patients received meningococcal vaccination prior to receipt of eculizumab. In all studies, 
the dose of eculizumab was 600 mg every 7 ± 2 days for 4 weeks, followed by 900 mg 7 ± 2 days 
later, then 900 mg every 14 ± 2 days for the study duration. Eculizumab was administered as an 
intravenous infusion over 25 – 45 minutes (35 minutes ± 10 minutes). An observational non-
interventional registry in patients with PNH (M07-001) was also initiated to characterise the natural 
history of PNH in untreated patients and the clinical outcomes during eculizumab treatment. 
In study C04-001 (TRIUMPH) PNH patients with at least 4 transfusions in the prior 12 months flow 
cytometric confirmation of at least 10% PNH cells and platelet counts of at least 100 000/microlitre 
were randomised to either eculizumab (n = 43) or placebo (n = 44). Prior to randomisation, all patients 
underwent an initial observation period to confirm the need for RBC transfusion and to identify the 
haemoglobin concentration (the "set-point") which would define each patient’s haemoglobin 
stabilisation and transfusion outcomes. The haemoglobin set-point was less than or equal to 9 g/dL in 
patients with symptoms and was less than or equal to 7 g/dL in patients without symptoms. Primary 
efficacy endpoints were haemoglobin stabilisation (patients who maintained a haemoglobin 
concentration above the haemoglobin set-point and avoid any RBC transfusion for the entire 26 week 
period) and blood transfusion requirement. Fatigue and health-related quality of life were relevant 
secondary endpoints. 
Haemolysis was monitored mainly by the measurement of serum LDH levels, and the proportion of 
PNH RBCs was monitored by flow cytometry. Patients receiving anticoagulants and systemic 
corticosteroids at baseline continued these medicinal products. Major baseline characteristics were 
balanced (see table 2). 
In the non-controlled study C04-002 (SHEPHERD), PNH patients with at least one transfusion in the 
prior 24 months and at least 30 000 platelets/microlitre received eculizumab over a 52-week period. 
Concomitant medicinal products included anti-thrombotic agents in 63% of the patients and systemic 
corticosteroids in 40% of the patients. Baseline characteristics are shown in table 2. 
Table 2. Patient demographics and characteristics in C04-001 and C04-002  
Parameter 
Mean age (SD) 
Gender - female (%) 
History of aplastic anaemia or MDS (%) 
Concomitant anticoagulants (%) 
Eculizumab 
N = 43 
42.1 (15.5) 
23 (53.5) 
8 (18.7) 
24 (55.8) 
C04-002 
Eculizumab  
N = 97 
41.1 (14.4) 
49 (50.5) 
29 (29.9) 
59 (61) 
C04-001 
Placebo 
N = 44 
38.4 (13.4) 
29 (65.9) 
12 (27.3) 
20 (45.5) 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
Concomitant steroids/immunosuppressant 
treatments (%) 
Discontinued treatment 
PRBC in previous 12 months (median (Q1, 
Q3)) 
Mean Hgb level (g/dL) at setpoint (SD) 
Pre-treatment LDH levels (median, U/L) 
Free haemoglobin at baseline (median, 
mg/dL) 
C04-001 
Placebo 
N = 44 
16 (36.4) 
10 
17.0 (13.5, 25.0) 
7.7 (0.75) 
2 234.5 
46.2 
Eculizumab 
N = 43 
14 (32.6) 
C04-002 
Eculizumab  
N = 97 
46 (47.4) 
2 
18.0 (12.0, 
24.0) 
7.8 (0.79) 
2 032.0 
40.5 
1 
8.0 (4.0, 24.0) 
N/A 
2 051.0 
34.9 
In TRIUMPH, study patients treated with eculizumab had significantly reduced (p < 0.001) 
haemolysis resulting in improvements in anaemia as indicated by increased haemoglobin stabilisation 
and reduced need for RBC transfusions compared to placebo treated patients (see table 3). These 
effects were seen among patients within each of the three pre-study RBC transfusion strata 
(4 - 14 units; 15 - 25 units; > 25 units). After 3 weeks of eculizumab treatment, patients reported less 
fatigue and improved health-related quality of life. Because of the study sample size and duration, the 
effects of eculizumab on thrombotic events could not be determined. In SHEPHERD study, 96 of the 
97 enrolled patients completed the study (one patient died following a thrombotic event). A reduction 
in intravascular haemolysis as measured by serum LDH levels was sustained for the treatment period 
and resulted in increased transfusion avoidance, a reduced need for RBC transfusion and less fatigue 
(see table 3). 
Table 3. Efficacy outcomes in C04-001 and C04-002  
C04-001 
Placebo 
N = 44 
Eculizumab  
N = 43 
C04-002* 
P – value  Eculizumab  
P – value 
0 
0 
0 
49 
10 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
Percentage of patients with 
stabilised haemoglobin levels 
at end of study 
PRBC transfused during 
treatment (median) 
Transfusion avoidance during 
treatment (%) 
LDH levels at end of study 
(median, U/L) 
LDH AUC at end of study 
(median, U/L × Day) 
Free haemoglobin at end of 
study (median, mg/dL) 
FACIT-fatigue (effect size) 
< 0.001 
* Results from study C04-002 refer to pre- versus post-treatment comparisons. 
411 822 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
58 587 
2 167 
1.12 
239 
62 
51 
5 
N = 97 
N/A 
0 
51 
269 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
-632 264 
< 0.001 
5 
1.14 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
From the 195 patients that originated in C04-001, C04-002 and other initial studies, eculizumab -
treated PNH patients were enrolled in a long-term extension study (E05-001). All patients sustained a 
reduction in intravascular haemolysis over a total eculizumab exposure time ranging from 
10 to 54 months. There were fewer thrombotic events with eculizumab treatment than during the same 
period of time prior to treatment. However, this finding was shown in non-controlled clinical trials. 
The PNH registry (M07-001) was used to evaluate the efficacy of eculizumab in PNH patients with no 
history of RBC transfusion. These patients had high disease activity as defined by elevated haemolysis 
(LDH ≥ 1.5 × ULN) and the presence of related clinical symptom(s): fatigue, haemoglobinuria, 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
abdominal pain, shortness of breath (dyspnoea), anaemia (haemoglobin < 100 g/L), major adverse 
vascular event (including thrombosis), dysphagia, or erectile dysfunction. 
In the PNH registry, patients treated with eculizumab were observed to have a reduction in haemolysis 
and associated symptoms. At 6 months, patients treated with eculizumab with no history of RBC 
transfusion had significantly (p < 0.001) reduced LDH levels (median LDH of 305 U/L; see table 4). 
Furthermore, 74% of the patients without a history of transfusion and treated with eculizumab 
experienced clinically meaningful improvements in FACIT-fatigue score (i.e., increase by 4 points or 
more) and 84% in EORTC fatigue score (i.e., decrease by 10 points or more). 
Table 4. Efficacy outcomes (LDH level and FACIT-fatigue) in patients with PNH with no history 
of transfusion in M07-001  
Parameter 
LDH level at baseline  
(median, U/L) 
LDH level at 6 months  
(median, U/L) 
FACIT-fatigue score at baseline 
(median) 
FACIT-fatigue score at last available assessment 
(median) 
FACIT-fatigue is measured on a scale of 0 - 52, with higher values indicating less fatigue 
M07-001 
Eculizumab  
No transfusion 
N = 43  
1 447 
N = 36  
305 
N = 25 
32 
N = 31  
44 
Paediatric population 
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
A total of 7 PNH paediatric patients, with a median weight of 57.2 kg (range of 48.6 to 69.8 kg) and 
aged from 11 to 17 years (median age: 15.6 years), received eculizumab in study M07-005. 
Treatment with eculizumab at the proposed dosing regimen in the paediatric population was associated 
with a reduction of intravascular haemolysis as measured by serum LDH level. It also resulted in a 
marked decrease or elimination of blood transfusions, and a trend towards an overall improvement in 
general function. The efficacy of eculizumab treatment in paediatric PNH patients appears to be 
consistent with that observed in adult PNH patients enrolled in PNH pivotal studies (C04-001 and 
C04-002) (see tables 3 and 5). 
Table 5. Efficacy outcomes in paediatric PNH study M07-005 
Change from baseline at 12 weeks of LDH 
value (U/L) 
LDH AUC (U/L × day) 
Change from baseline at 12 weeks in plasma 
free haemoglobin (mg/dL) 
Change from baseline type III RBC clone 
size (percent of aberrant cells) 
Change from baseline at 12 weeks of 
PedsQL™ 4.0 generic core scale (patients) 
Change from baseline at 12 weeks of 
PedsQL™ 4.0 generic core scale (parents) 
Mean (SD) 
-771 (914) 
P – Value 
Wilcoxon signed 
rank 
0.0156 
-60 634 (72 916)  0.0156 
0.2188 
-10.3 (21.13) 
1.80 (358.1) 
10.5 (6.66) 
0.1250 
11.3 (8.5) 
0.2500 
14 
Paired t-test 
0.0336 
0.0350 
0.1232 
0.0256 
0.0737 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean (SD) 
P – Value 
Wilcoxon signed 
rank 
Paired t-test 
0.8 (21.39) 
0.6250 
0.4687 
5.5 (0.71) 
0.5000 
0.0289 
Change from baseline at 12 weeks of 
PedsQL™ multidimensional fatigue 
(patients) 
Change from baseline at 12 weeks of 
PedsQL™ multidimensional fatigue 
(parents) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Pharmacokinetics and active substance metabolism 
Biotransformation 
Human antibodies undergo endocytotic digestion in the cells of the reticuloendothelial system. 
Eculizumab contains only naturally occurring amino acids and has no known active metabolites. 
Human antibodies are predominately catabolised by lysosomal enzymes to small peptides and amino 
acids. 
Elimination 
No specific studies have been performed to evaluate the hepatic, renal, lung, or gastrointestinal routes 
of excretion/elimination for eculizumab. In normal kidneys, antibodies are not excreted and are 
excluded from filtration by their size. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s)  
In 40 patients with PNH, a 1-compartmental model was used to estimate pharmacokinetic parameters 
after multiple doses. Mean clearance was 0.31 ± 0.12 mL/hr/kg, mean volume of distribution was 
110.3 ± 17.9 mL/kg, and mean elimination half-life was 11.3 ± 3.4 days. The steady state is achieved 
by 4 weeks using the PNH adult dosing regimen. 
In PNH patients, pharmacodynamic activity correlates directly with eculizumab serum concentrations 
and maintenance of trough levels above ≥ 35 micrograms/mL results in essentially complete blockade 
of haemolytic activity in the majority of PNH patients. 
The clearance and half-life of eculizumab were also evaluated during plasma exchange interventions. 
Plasma exchange resulted in an approximately 50% decline in eculizumab concentrations following a 
1-hour intervention and the elimination half-life of eculizumab was reduced to 1.3 hours.  
Pharmacodynamic activity measured by free C5 concentrations of < 0.5 micrograms/mL, is correlated 
with essentially complete blockade of terminal complement activity in PNH patients. 
Special Populations 
Dedicated studies have not been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of eculizumab in special 
patient populations identified by gender, race, age (geriatric), or the presence of renal or hepatic 
impairment. 
Population PK analysis on data collected across eculizumab studies showed that gender, race, age 
(geriatric), or the presence of renal or hepatic impairment function do not influence the PK of 
eculizumab. Body weight was a significant covariate resulting in a lower eculizumab clearance in 
paediatric patients requiring body weight-based dosing in paediatric patients. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of eculizumab in PNH paediatric patients (aged from 11 to less than 18 years) 
with body-weight-based dose regimen was evaluated in study M07-005.  
Weight was a significant covariate resulting in a lower eculizumab clearance 0.0105 L/h in the 
adolescent PNH patients.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
The specificity of eculizumab for C5 in human serum was evaluated in two in vitro studies. 
The tissue cross-reactivity of eculizumab was evaluated by assessing binding to a panel of 38 human 
tissues. C5 expression in the human tissue panel examined in this study is consistent with published 
reports of C5 expression, as C5 has been reported in smooth muscle, striated muscle, and renal 
proximal tubular epithelium. No unexpected tissue cross-reactivity was observed. 
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with eculizumab due to lack of pharmacologic 
activity in non-human species. 
In a 26 week toxicity study performed in mice with a surrogate antibody directed against murine C5, 
treatment did not affect any of the toxicity parameters examined. Haemolytic activity during the 
course of the study was effectively blocked in both female and male mice. 
No clear treatment-related effects or adverse effects were observed in reproductive toxicology studies 
in mice with a surrogate terminal complement inhibitory antibody, which was utilised to assess the 
reproductive safety of C5 blockade. These studies included assessment of fertility and early embryonic 
development, developmental toxicity, and pre- and post-natal development. 
When maternal exposure to the antibody occurred during organogenesis, two cases of retinal dysplasia 
and one case of umbilical hernia were observed among 230 offspring born to mothers exposed to the 
higher antibody dose (approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human eculizumab dose, 
based on a body weight comparison); however, the exposure did not increase foetal loss or neonatal 
death. 
No animal studies have been conducted to evaluate the genotoxic and carcinogenic potential of 
eculizumab. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid  
Sodium hydroxide 
Disodium edetate (EDTA) 
Sorbitol (E420) 
Polysorbate 80  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years 
After dilution, chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for the following:   
•  Polyolefin IV bags: 14 days at 2°C to 8°C followed by up to 48 hours at 2°C to 8°C or room 
temperature 
•  PVC IV bags: 48 hours at 2°C to 8°C or room temperature 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately.  If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
BEKEMV vials in the original package may be removed from refrigerated storage for only one single 
period of up to 7 days. At the end of this period the product can be put back in the refrigerator. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Vial (type I glass) with an elastomeric stopper and an aluminium seal with flip-off cap. 
Pack size of one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Prior to administration, the BEKEMV solution should be visually inspected for particulate matter and 
discolouration. 
Instructions 
Dilution should be performed in accordance with good practices rules, particularly for the respect of 
asepsis. 
Withdraw the total amount of BEKEMV from the vial(s) using a sterile syringe.  
Transfer the recommended dose to an infusion bag. 
Dilute BEKEMV to a final concentration of 5 mg/mL by addition to the infusion bag using sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, sodium chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for 
injection, or 5% glucose in water, as the diluent. 
The final volume of a 5 mg/mL diluted solution is 60 mL for 300 mg doses, 120 mL for 600 mg doses 
and 180 mL for 900 mg doses. The solution should be clear and colourless. 
Gently agitate the infusion bag containing the diluted solution to ensure thorough mixing of the 
product and diluent. 
The diluted solution should be allowed to warm to room temperature prior to administration by 
exposure to ambient temperature. 
Discard any unused portion left in a vial. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Amgen Technology (Ireland) UC 
Pottery Road, Dun Laoghaire 
Co. Dublin,  
A96 F2A8 Ireland  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1727/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
Amgen Singapore Manufacturing 
1 Tuas View Drive 
Singapore 637026 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Amgen Technology (Ireland) UC 
Pottery Road, Dun Laoghaire 
Co. Dublin,  
A96 F2A8 Ireland  
Amgen NV 
Telecomlaan 5-7 
1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
The MAH shall agree the details of a controlled drug distribution system and educational material 
including a patient safety card with each national competent authority and must implement such 
programmes nationally to ensure that: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
All healthcare professionals who may prescribe eculizumab receive the appropriate educational 
material. 
All patients being treated with eculizumab receive a patient safety card. 
Drug distribution will only be possible after written confirmation that the patient received or 
will receive meningococcal vaccination and/or antibiotic prophylaxis. 
Vaccination reminders are sent to the prescribers. 
The educational material should be agreed with the National Competent Authority and should contain 
the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Summary of product characteristics 
Physician’s guide to prescribing 
Package leaflet 
Patient’s/parent’s information brochures 
Patient safety card 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The physician’s guides to prescribing should be indication specific and contain the following key 
messages: 
• 
Treatment with eculizumab increases the risk of severe infection and sepsis, especially of 
Neisseria meningitidis and other Neisseria species, including disseminated gonorrhoeae. 
All patients must be monitored for signs of meningococcal infection. 
The need for patients to be vaccinated against Neisseria meningitidis two weeks prior to 
receiving eculizumab and/or to receive antibiotic prophylaxis. 
The requirement to vaccinate children against pneumococcus and Haemophilus influenzae 
before eculizumab treatment. 
There is an important risk of Aspergillus infection in patients treated with eculizumab. The 
healthcare professionals should be advised to look for risk factors and signs and symptoms of 
Aspergillus infection. Practical advice should be included to mitigate the risk. 
The risk of infusion reactions including anaphylaxis and advice on post-infusion monitoring. 
The risk of developing antibodies to eculizumab. 
Risk of serious haemolysis following eculizumab discontinuation and postponement of 
administration, its criteria, the required post-treatment monitoring and its proposed management 
(PNH only). 
Sorbitol content warning and the risks for patients with HFI when intravenously exposed to 
sorbitol. 
BEKEMV contraindication in patients with HFI (regardless of their age), and in children below 
2 years of age, who may not yet be diagnosed with HFI. 
The need to explain to and ensure understanding of by patients/carers: 
○ 
○ 
○ 
○ 
the risks of treatment with eculizumab 
the signs and symptoms of sepsis/severe infection and what action to take 
the patient’s/carer’s guides and their contents 
the need to carry the patient safety card and to tell any healthcare professional that he/she 
is receiving treatment with eculizumab 
the requirement for vaccinations/antibiotic prophylaxis 
the risks of serious metabolic harms due to treatment with BEKEMV if the patient also 
has HFI 
○ 
○ 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The patient’s/parent’s guides should be indication specific and contain the following key messages: 
• 
Treatment with eculizumab increases the risk of severe infection, especially 
Neisseria meningitidis and other Neisseria species, including disseminated gonorrhoeae. 
Signs and symptoms of severe infection and the need to obtain urgent medical care. 
The patient safety card and the need to carry it on their person and tell any treating healthcare 
professional that they are being treated with eculizumab. 
The importance of meningococcal vaccination prior to treatment with eculizumab and/or to 
receive antibiotic prophylaxis. 
The need for children to be vaccinated against pneumococcus and Haemophilus influenzae 
before eculizumab treatment. 
The risk of infusion reactions with eculizumab, including anaphylaxis, and the need for clinical 
monitoring post-infusion. 
Risk of serious haemolysis (in PNH) following discontinuation/postponement of eculizumab 
administrations, their signs and symptoms and the recommendation to consult the prescriber 
before discontinuing/postponing eculizumab administrations 
The risks of serious metabolic harms (potentially life-threatening) due to treatment with 
BEKEMV if the patient also has HFI. 
BEKEMV contraindication in patients with HFI (regardless of their age), and in babies and 
children below 2 years of age, who may not yet be diagnosed with HFI. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs and symptoms of infection and sepsis. 
The patient safety card should contain: 
• 
•  Warning to seek immediate medical care if above are present. 
• 
• 
Statement that the patient is receiving eculizumab. 
Sorbitol content warning and potentially life-threatening risks of patients with HFI who are 
intravenously exposed to sorbitol-containing medicines. 
BEKEMV contraindication in patients with HFI (regardless of their age), and in babies and 
children below 2 years of age, who may not yet be diagnosed with HFI. 
Contact details where a health care professional can receive further information. 
• 
• 
The MAH shall send annually to prescribers or pharmacists who prescribe/dispense BEKEMV, a 
reminder in order that the prescriber/pharmacist checks if a (re)-vaccination against Neisseria 
meningitidis is needed for his/her patients on BEKEMV. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
BEKEMV 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
eculizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of 30 mL contains 300 mg of eculizumab (10 mg/mL). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, disodium edetate (EDTA), sorbitol, polysorbate 80 and water for 
injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion  
1 vial of 30 mL (10 mg/mL) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
After dilution, the final concentration of the solution to be infused is 5 mg/mL. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) and children <2 years of age must not be given this 
medicine due to sorbitol content.  
See package leaflet for further information. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC – 8ºC).  
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Technology (Ireland) UC, 
Pottery Road, Dun Laoghaire, 
Co. Dublin,  
A96 F2A8 Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1727/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
BEKEMV 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
eculizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of 30 mL contains 300 mg of eculizumab (10 mg/mL). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, disodium edetate (EDTA), sorbitol, polysorbate 80 and water for 
injections. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion  
1 vial of 30 mL (10 mg/mL) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
After dilution, the final concentration of the solution to be infused is 5 mg/mL. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator.  
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Technology (Ireland) UC, 
Pottery Road, Dun Laoghaire, 
Co. Dublin,  
A96 F2A8 Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1727/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
BEKEMV 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
eculizumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.  
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet:  
1.  What BEKEMV is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use BEKEMV 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use BEKEMV 
Possible side effects 
How to store BEKEMV 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What BEKEMV is and what it is used for  
What is BEKEMV  
BEKEMV contains the active substance eculizumab and it belongs to a class of medicines called 
monoclonal antibodies. Eculizumab binds to and inhibits a specific protein in the body that causes 
inflammation and so prevents your body’s systems from attacking and destroying vulnerable blood 
cells.  
What is BEKEMV used for  
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
BEKEMV is used to treat adults and children with a certain type of disease affecting the blood system 
called Paroxysmal Nocturnal Haemoglobinuria (PNH). In patients with PNH, their red blood cells can 
be destroyed which can lead to low blood counts (anaemia), tiredness, difficulty in functioning, pain, 
dark urine, shortness of breath, and blood clots. Eculizumab can block the body’s inflammatory 
response, and its ability to attack and destroy its own vulnerable PNH blood cells. 
2.  What you need to know before you use BEKEMV  
Do not use BEKEMV  
- 
If you are allergic to eculizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you have fructose intolerance, a quite rare genetic condition where the enzyme for breaking 
down fructose is not produced.  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Children below 2 years of age must not receive this medicine. This medicine contains sorbitol 
and sorbitol may be fatal in hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI). In babies and children below 
2 years of age HFI may not yet be diagnosed. (See special warnings at the end of this section 
under subtitle “BEKEMV contains sorbitol”). 
If you have not been vaccinated against meningococcal infection unless you take antibiotics to 
reduce the risk of infection until 2 weeks after you have been vaccinated. 
If you have a meningococcal infection. 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions  
Meningococcal and other Neisseria infections alert 
BEKEMV treatment may reduce your natural resistance to infections, especially against certain 
organisms that cause meningococcal infection (severe infection of the linings of the brain and sepsis) 
and other Neisseria infections including disseminated gonorrhoea. 
Consult your doctor before you take BEKEMV to be sure that you receive vaccination against 
Neisseria meningitidis, an organism that causes meningococcal infection, at least 2 weeks before 
beginning therapy, or that you take antibiotics to reduce the risk of infection until 2 weeks after you 
have been vaccinated. 
Ensure that your current meningococcal vaccination is up to date. You should also be aware that 
vaccination may not prevent this type of infection. In accordance with national recommendations, your 
doctor might consider that you need supplementary measures to prevent infection. 
If you are at risk of gonorrhoea, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine.  
Meningococcal infection symptoms 
Because of the importance of rapidly identifying and treating certain types of infection in patients who 
receive BEKEMV, you will be provided a card to carry with you, listing specific trigger symptoms. 
This card is named: “Patient Safety Card”. 
If you experience any of the following symptoms, you should immediately inform your doctor: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
headache with nausea or vomiting 
headache with a stiff neck or back 
fever 
rash 
confusion 
severe muscle aches combined with flu-like symptoms 
sensitivity to light 
Treatment for meningococcal infection while travelling 
If you are travelling in a remote region where you are unable to contact your doctor or in which you 
find yourself temporarily unable to receive medical treatment, your doctor can make arrangements to 
issue, as a preventive measure, a prescription for an antibiotic to counter Neisseria meningitidis that 
you keep with you. If you experience any of the symptoms amongst those cited above, you should take 
the antibiotics as prescribed. You should bear in mind that you should see a doctor as soon as possible, 
even if you feel better after having taken the antibiotics. 
Infections  
Before starting BEKEMV, inform your doctor if you have any infections. 
31 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions  
BEKEMV contains a protein and proteins can cause allergic reactions in some people. 
Children and adolescents  
Patients less than 18 years of age must be vaccinated against Haemophilus influenzae and 
pneumococcal infections. 
Older people  
There are no special precautions needed for the treatment of patients aged from 65 years and over. 
Other medicines and BEKEMV  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using or have recently used or might use any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding, and fertility  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
Women of childbearing potential 
The use of effective contraception during treatment and up to 5 months after treatment should be 
considered in women who are able to get pregnant. 
Driving and using machines 
BEKEMV has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
BEKEMV contains sorbitol  
This medicine contains 50 mg sorbitol in each mL. 
Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If you (or your child) have hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare 
genetic disorder, you (or your child) must not receive this medicine. Patients with HFI cannot break 
down fructose, which may cause serious side effects. 
You must tell your doctor before receiving this medicine if you (or your child) have HFI or if your 
child can no longer take sweet foods or drinks because they feel sick, vomit or get unpleasant effects 
such as bloating, stomach cramps or diarrhoea. 
Sodium 
BEKEMV contains sodium when diluted with sodium chloride. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium free”.  
Once diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, this medicinal product 
contains 0.34 g sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) per 180 mL at the maximal dose. This 
is equivalent to 17.0% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. You 
should take this into consideration if you are on a controlled sodium diet. 
Once diluted with sodium chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for injection, this medicinal product 
contains 0.18 g sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) per 180 mL at the maximal dose, 
equivalent to 9.0% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. You 
should take this into consideration if you are on a controlled sodium diet.  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If your health care professional dilutes BEKEMV vials with 5% glucose solution, the medicinal 
product is essentially “sodium free”. 
3.  How to use BEKEMV  
At least 2 weeks before you start treatment with BEKEMV, your doctor will administer a vaccine 
against meningococcal infection if it was not previously administered or if your vaccination is 
outdated. If your child is below the age of vaccination or if you are not vaccinated at least 2 weeks 
before you start treatment with BEKEMV, your doctor will prescribe antibiotics to reduce the risk of 
infection until 2 weeks after you have been vaccinated. 
Your doctor will administer a vaccine to your child aged less than 18 years against Haemophilus 
influenzae and pneumococcal infections according to the national vaccination recommendations for 
each age group. 
Instructions for proper use  
The treatment will be given by your doctor or other health care provider by infusing a dilution of the 
BEKEMV vial from a drip bag through a tube directly into one of your veins. It is recommended that 
the beginning of your treatments, called the initial phase, will extend over 4 weeks, followed by a 
maintenance phase. 
If you use this medicine to treat PNH  
For adults: 
• 
Initial phase: 
Every week for the first four weeks, your doctor will administer an intravenous infusion of diluted 
BEKEMV. Each infusion will consist of a dose of 600 mg (2 vials of 30 mL) and will take 
25 - 45 minutes (35 minutes ± 10 minutes). 
•  Maintenance phase: 
- 
- 
In the fifth week, your doctor will administer an intravenous infusion of diluted BEKEMV at a 
dose of 900 mg (3 vials of 30 mL) over a 25 – 45 minute (35 minutes ± 10 minutes) period. 
After the fifth week, your doctor will administer 900 mg of diluted BEKEMV every two weeks 
as a long-term treatment. 
For children and adolescents: 
• 
Children and adolescents with PNH and who are 40 kg weight and over are treated with the 
adult dosing. 
Children and adolescents with PNH and who are under 40 kg weight require a lower dose based 
on how much they weigh. Your doctor will calculate this. 
• 
For children and adolescents with PNH above 2 years of age and with body weight below 40 kg: 
Patient body 
weight 
30 to < 40 kg 
20 to < 30 kg 
10 to < 20 kg 
Initial phase 
Maintenance phase 
600 mg weekly for the 
first 2 weeks 
600 mg weekly for the 
first 2 weeks 
600 mg single dose at 
week 1 
900 mg at week 3; then 900 mg every 2 weeks 
600 mg at week 3; then 600 mg every 2 weeks 
300 mg at week 2; then 300 mg every 2 weeks 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient body 
weight 
5 to < 10 kg 
Initial phase 
Maintenance phase 
300 mg single dose at 
week 1 
300 mg at week 2; then 300 mg every 3 weeks 
Following each infusion, you will be monitored for about one hour. Your doctor’s instructions should 
be carefully observed. 
If you receive more BEKEMV than you should  
If you suspect that you have been accidentally administered a higher dose of BEKEMV than 
prescribed, please contact your doctor for advice. 
If you forget an appointment to receive BEKEMV  
If you forget an appointment, please contact your doctor immediately for advice and see section below 
“If you stop using BEKEMV”. 
If you stop using BEKEMV for PNH  
Interrupting or ending treatment with BEKEMV may cause your PNH symptoms to come back more 
severely soon. Your doctor will discuss the possible side effects with you and explain the risks. Your 
doctor will want to monitor you closely for at least 8 weeks. 
The risks of stopping BEKEMV include an increase in the destruction of your red blood cells, which 
may cause: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor. 
A significant fall in your red blood cell counts (anaemia), 
Confusion or change in how alert you are, 
Chest pain, or angina, 
An increase in your serum creatinine level (problems with your kidneys), or 
Thrombosis (blood clotting). 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Your 
doctor will discuss the possible side effects with you and explain the benefits and risks of BEKEMV 
with you prior to treatment. 
The most serious side effect was meningococcal sepsis. If you experience any of the meningococcal 
infection symptoms (see section 2 Meningococcal and other Neisseria infections alert), you should 
immediately inform your doctor. 
If you are not sure what the side effects below are, ask your doctor to explain them to you. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)  
• 
headache 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
infection of the lung (pneumonia), common cold (nasopharyngitis), infection of the urinary 
system (urinary tract infection) 
low white blood cell count (leucopenia), reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin 
pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
inability to sleep 
dizziness, high blood pressure 
• 
• 
• 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
upper respiratory tract infection, cough, throat pain (oropharyngeal pain), bronchitis, cold sores 
(herpes simplex) 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, rash, hair loss (alopecia), itchy skin (pruritus) 
pain in the joints (arms and legs), pain in the limbs (arms and legs) 
fever (pyrexia), feeling tired (fatigue), influenza like illness 
infusion related reaction 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
severe infection (meningococcal infection), sepsis, septic shock, viral infection, lower 
respiratory tract infection, stomach flu (gastrointestinal infection), cystitis 
infection, fungal infection, collection of pus (abscess), type of infection of the skin (cellulitis), 
influenza, sinusitis, tooth infection (abscess), gum infection 
relatively few platelets in blood (thrombocytopenia), low level of lymphocytes a specific type of 
white blood cells (lymphopenia), feeling your heartbeat 
serious allergic reaction which causes difficulty in breathing or dizziness (anaphylactic 
reaction), hypersensitivity 
loss of appetite 
depression, anxiety, mood swings, sleep disorder 
tingling in part of the body (paraesthesia), shaking, taste disorders (dysgeusia), fainting 
vision blurred 
ringing in the ears, vertigo 
sudden and rapid development of extremely high blood pressure, low blood pressure, hot flush, 
vein disorder 
dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), nose bleed, stuffy nose (nasal congestion), throat irritation, 
runny nose (rhinorrhoea) 
inflammation of the peritoneum (the tissue that lines most of the organs of the abdomen), 
constipation, stomach discomfort after meals (dyspepsia), abdominal distension 
hives, redness of the skin, dry skin, red or purple spots under the skin, increased sweating, 
inflammation of the skin 
muscle cramp, muscle aches, back and neck pain, bone pain 
kidney disorder, difficulties or pain when urinating (dysuria), blood in urine 
spontaneous penile erection 
swelling (oedema), chest discomfort, feeling of weakness (asthaenia), chest pain, infusion site 
pain, chills 
increase of liver enzymes, decrease of the proportion of blood volume that is occupied by red 
blood cells, decrease in the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
infection by fungi (Aspergillus infection), infection of the joint (arthritis bacterial), 
Haemophilus influenzae infection, impetigo, bacterial sexual transmitted disease (gonorrhoea) 
skin tumour (melanoma), bone marrow disorder 
destruction of red blood cells (haemolysis), clumping of cells, abnormal clotting factor, 
abnormal blood clotting 
disease with thyroid overactivity (Basedow’s disease) 
abnormal dreams 
irritation of eye 
bruise 
unusual backflow of food from stomach, gum pain 
yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) 
skin colour disorder 
spasm of mouth muscle, joint swelling 
menstrual disorder 
abnormal leakage of the infused drug out of the vein, infusion site abnormal sensation, feeling 
hot 
35 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store BEKEMV  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial label after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
BEKEMV vials in the original package may be removed from refrigerated storage for only one single 
period of up to 7 days. At the end of this period the product can be put back in the refrigerator. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. After dilution, the product should be used 
within 24 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines 
you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What BEKEMV contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is eculizumab (300 mg/30 mL in a vial corresponding to 10 mg/mL). 
The other ingredients are: 
acetic acid,  
sodium hydroxide,  
disodium edetate (EDTA),  
sorbitol (E420, see section 2 “BEKEMV contains sorbitol”),  
polysorbate 80,  
water for injections 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
What BEKEMV looks like and contents of the pack  
BEKEMV is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion (30 mL in a vial – pack size of 1).  
BEKEMV is a clear to opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer  
Amgen Technology (Ireland) UC 
Pottery Road, Dun Laoghaire 
Co. Dublin,  
A96 F2A8 Ireland  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Amgen Technology (Ireland) UC 
Pottery Road, Dun Laoghaire 
Co. Dublin,  
A96 F2A8 Ireland  
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer  
Amgen NV 
Telecomlaan 5-7 
1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
s.a. Amgen n.v. 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 7752711 
България 
Амджен България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 424 7440 
Česká republika 
Amgen s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 221 773 500 
Danmark 
Amgen, filial af Amgen AB, Sverige 
Tlf: +45 39617500 
Deutschland 
Amgen GmbH 
Tel.: +49 89 1490960 
Eesti 
Amgen Switzerland AG Vilniaus filialas 
Tel: +372 586 09553 
Ελλάδα 
Amgen Ελλάς Φαρμακευτικά Ε.Π.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 3447000 
España 
Amgen S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 600 18 60 
France 
Amgen S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 (0)9 69 363 363 
Hrvatska 
Amgen d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 (0)1 562 57 20 
Ireland 
Amgen Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 8527400 
Lietuva 
Amgen Switzerland AG Vilniaus filialas 
Tel: +370 5 219 7474 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
s.a. Amgen 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 7752711 
Magyarország 
Amgen Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 35 44 700 
Malta 
Amgen S.r.l. 
Italy 
Tel: +39 02 6241121 
Nederland 
Amgen B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0)76 5732500 
Norge 
Amgen AB 
Tlf: +47 23308000 
Österreich 
Amgen GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0)1 50 217 
Polska 
Amgen Biotechnologia Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 581 3000 
Portugal 
Amgen Biofarmacêutica, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 422 06 06 
România 
Amgen România SRL 
Tel: +4021 527 3000 
Slovenija 
AMGEN zdravila d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 585 1767 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Amgen S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 6241121 
Kύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741 741 
Slovenská republika 
Amgen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 321 114 49 
Suomi/Finland 
Amgen AB, sivuliike Suomessa/Amgen AB, filial 
i Finland 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 54900500 
Sverige 
Amgen AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 6951100 
Latvija 
Amgen Switzerland AG Rīgas filiāle 
Tel: +371 257 25888 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Amgen Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1223 420305 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
Instructions for use for healthcare professionals handling BEKEMV  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
1.  How is BEKEMV supplied?  
Each vial of BEKEMV contains 300 mg of active substance in 30 mL of product solution. 
2.  Before administration  
Dilution should be performed in accordance with good practices rules, particularly for the respect of 
asepsis. 
BEKEMV should be prepared for administration by a qualified healthcare professional using aseptic 
technique. 
Inspect visually BEKEMV solution for particulate matter and discolouration. 
• 
•  Withdraw the required amount of BEKEMV from the vial(s) using a sterile syringe. 
• 
• 
Transfer the recommended dose to an infusion bag. 
Dilute BEKEMV to a final concentration of 5 mg/mL (initial concentration divided by 2) by 
adding the appropriate amount of diluent to the infusion bag.  
- 
- 
- 
The final volume of a 5 mg/mL diluted BEKEMV solution is 60 mL for 300 mg doses, 120 mL 
for 600 mg doses, 180 mL for 900 mg doses. 
For 300 mg doses, use 30 mL of BEKEMV (10 mg/mL) and add 30 mL of diluent.  
For 600 mg doses, use 60 mL of BEKEMV and add 60 mL of diluent.  
For 900 mg doses, use 90 mL of BEKEMV and add 90 mL of diluent.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Diluents are sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, sodium chloride 
4.5 mg/mL (0.45%) solution for injection or 5% glucose in water. 
Gently agitate the infusion bag containing the diluted BEKEMV solution to ensure thorough 
mixing of the medicinal product and diluent. 
The diluted solution should be allowed to warm to room temperature [18°C – 25°C] prior to 
administration by exposure to ambient temperature. 
The diluted solution must not be heated in a microwave or with any heat source other than the 
prevailing room temperature. 
Discard any unused portion left in a vial. 
Diluted solution of BEKEMV may be stored at 2°C – 8°C for up to 24 hours prior to 
administration. 
3.  Administration  
• 
• 
• 
Do not administer BEKEMV as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
BEKEMV should only be administered via intravenous infusion. 
The diluted solution of BEKEMV should be administered by intravenous infusion over 
25 to 45 minutes (35 minutes ± 10 minutes) in adults and 1 - 4 hours in paediatric patients under 
18 years of age via gravity feed, a syringe-type pump, or an infusion pump. It is not necessary to 
protect the diluted solution of BEKEMV from light during administration to the patient. 
The patient should be monitored for one hour following infusion. If an adverse event occurs during the 
administration of BEKEMV, the infusion may be slowed or stopped at the discretion of the physician. 
If the infusion is slowed, the total infusion time may not exceed two hours in adults and four hours in 
paediatric patients under 18 years of age. 
4. 
Special handling and storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. Store in the original package in order to protect 
from light. BEKEMV vials in the original package may be removed from refrigerated storage for only 
one single period of up to 7 days. At the end of this period the product can be put back in the 
refrigerator. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial label after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
