EMA/83300/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Bemfola 
(follitropin alfa) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Bemfola, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Bemfola is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Bemfola, which can be found on Bemfola’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Bemfola is a biosimilar medicine (similar to a biological medicine also known as the ‘reference 
medicine’ that is already authorised in the EU). The reference medicine for Bemfola is Gonal-f. Both are 
licensed in the management of certain forms of infertility: 
  Anovulation (failure to produce eggs, including because of a condition called polycystic ovary 
disease or PCOD) in women who have been unresponsive to treatment with another medicine 
called clomiphene citrate.  
The proportion of women with anovulation unresponsive to clomiphene citrate is unknown. The 
overall frequency of chronic (long-term) anovulation in women during their reproductive years has 
been estimated to be 6 to 15%. In 90% of affected individuals, anovulation is due to PCOD (a 
complex syndrome associated with reduced fertility, hormone disturbances, and the presence of 
fluid-filled cysts in the ovaries). 
  Stimulation of multifollicular development (development of more than one egg-releasing follicle at 
a time in the ovary) in patients undergoing superovulation (multiple egg production) for assisted 
reproductive technologies (ART). 
  Stimulation (in association with a luteinising hormone, or LH, preparation) of follicular development 
in women with severe deficiency (very low levels) of LH and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).  
LH deficiency is uncommon on its own and almost always occurs together with FSH deficiency 
because they are both produced by the same cells in the pituitary gland (a part of the brain). 
Stress-related reduction in these hormones, leading to reduced function of the reproductive system 
(hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism) accounts for more than 30% of cases of loss of menstruation 
(secondary amenorrhoea) in women of reproductive age. 
Failure of the pituitary gland to work properly occurs in approximately 33% of women with 
secondary amenorrhea, of whom about one-third have a tumour of the pituitary gland.  
  Stimulation of spermatogenesis (sperm production) in men who have congenital (inborn) or 
acquired hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism. Bemfola is used with another hormone, human 
chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG). 
Male infertility is probably responsible for one-third of the 10% to 15% of couples who are unable 
to conceive within one year of unprotected intercourse. Most of these male-associated cases result 
Page 1/6 
 
 
 
from diminished, absent, or faulty sperm production. FSH plays an important role in 
spermatogenesis. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Because Bemfola is a biosimilar medicine, studies were designed to compare Bemfola with its reference 
medicine Gonal-f, which also contains follitropin alfa as active substance. Studies in people have been 
limited to tests to determine that Bemfola behaves similarly to Gonal-f both in terms of its blood levels 
over time and of its ability to stimulate the ovaries to produce more than one egg: 
  Study FIN1001 is a small study performed in 24 healthy female volunteers aged 18-28 years and 
aimed to compare over time the blood levels of Bemfola with those of Gonal-f after a single 
injection under the skin. 
  Study FIN3001 is a large controlled study which aimed to compare whether Bemfola and Gonal-f 
are similar in terms of their efficacy (how well the medicine works) and safety (side effects).  The 
study was performed in 372 women aged between 20 and 38 years undergoing ART. 
The blood levels over time obtained for Bemfola and Gonal-f observed in study FIN1001 demonstrated 
similarity between both follitropin alfa-containing medicinal products. 
The main measure of effectiveness in study FIN3001 was the average number of eggs (oocytes) 
retrieved per patient.  The average number of oocytes retrieved was 10.7 in the Bemfola group (246 
subjects) and 10.4 in the Gonal-f group (123 subjects). This study showed that Bemfola was as 
effective as Gonal-f at stimulating the ovaries during assisted reproductive techniques. Other measures 
of effectiveness (including dose of follitropin alfa, number of days of stimulation and number of 
patients with cycle cancellation) were comparable between the Bemfola and Gonal-f groups. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Because the studies with Bemfola were designed to establish its similarity to Gonal-f, any uncertainties 
regarding its benefits are considered to be the same as for the reference medicine. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Ovarian hyperstimulation 
syndrome (OHSS, when the 
ovaries over-respond to 
treatment) 
The Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) for 
Bemfola, which contains 
information for doctors, includes 
a warning on the risk of OHSS in 
section 4.4 and lists this side 
effect in section 4.8. 
OHSS is a known risk for 
follitropin alfa.  Symptoms can 
range from mild abdominal 
discomfort to severe conditions 
requiring hospitalisation. In 
study FIN3001 a higher 
incidence of OHSS during the 
first treatment cycle was 
observed for Bemfola when 
compared with Gonal-f (22.1% 
vs. 13.0% of treated patients). 
In the second treatment cycle 
there were no imbalances 
between the Bemfola and Gonal-
f groups. The difference in the 
first treatment cycle could be 
Page 2/6 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
due to chance. Further studies 
are ongoing to clarify the issue. 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) 
reactions (including anaphylactic 
reactions).  
Mild and severe hypersensitivity 
reactions have been observed 
with Bemfola’s reference 
product, Gonal-f. 
Avoid use of Bemfola in subjects 
hypersensitive to follitropin alfa, 
FSH or to any of the excipients 
of Bemfola. See SmPC section 
4.3 (contraindications). 
Thromboembolic events (blood 
clots), usually with OHSS.  
Thromboembolic events have 
been observed during severe 
cases of OHSS. 
Several warnings have been 
introduced in the SmPC: 
Warning in section 4.4 stating 
that “Very rarely, severe OHSS 
may be complicated by ovarian 
torsion or thromboembolic 
events such as pulmonary 
embolism, ischaemic stroke or 
myocardial infarction”.   
Furthermore, a separate 
paragraph in section 4.4 entitled 
“Thromboembolic events” 
describes risk factors for 
thromboembolic events. 
Included in section 4.8 under 
vascular disorders, “Very rare: 
Thromboembolism, usually 
associated with severe OHSS 
(see Section 4.4).” 
Bemfola is a prescription-only 
medicine. 
Introduced in section 4.8 of the 
SmPC: “Very rare: Exacerbation 
or aggravation of asthma.” 
Warning introduced in section 
4.4 of the SmPC alerting 
prescribers of the increased risk 
of multiple pregnancies and that 
multiple pregnancies carry an 
increased risk of adverse 
maternal and perinatal 
outcomes. The warning advises 
prescribers to carefully monitor 
ovarian response and advises 
patients of the potential risks of 
multiple births before starting 
treatment. 
Worsening of asthma 
Multiple pregnancies (twins, 
etc.) 
Worsening of asthma has been 
observed for Bemfola’s 
reference product Gonal-f, so it 
is likely that similar reactions 
will occur with Bemfola.  
Multiple pregnancies have been 
observed for Bemfola and the 
reference product Gonal-f. It is 
known that induction of 
superovulation and assisted 
reproductive technology 
treatment are per se associated 
with an increased risk of 
multiple pregnancies.  
Gynaecomastia (enlarged 
Gynaecomastia has been 
Listed in section 4.8 as a 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
breasts in males) 
observed for the reference 
product Gonal-f, so it is likely 
that similar reactions will also 
occur with Bemfola when used 
in men. 
common adverse event. 
“Common: Gynaecomastia.” 
Prescription-only medicine. Use 
restricted to physicians 
experienced in the treatment of 
fertility disorders. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Theoretical risk of antibody production 
(immunogenicity) which may result in a lack of 
effect 
Breast cancer 
Other reproductive system cancers (e.g. ovarian 
cancer, cervical cancer) 
Ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy that occurs outside 
the womb) 
Congenital abnormalities 
As with all large therapeutic proteins, there is a 
theoretical risk that the body may produce 
antibodies against the medicine that result in a 
lack of effect.  
Study FIN3001 showed similar immunogenicity 
results for both Bemfola and Gonal-f groups. 
The SmPCs for Bemfola and Gonal-f contain the 
following warning: “There have been reports of 
ovarian and other reproductive system 
neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women 
who have undergone multiple treatment regimens 
for infertility treatment.  It is not yet established 
whether or not treatment with gonadotropins 
increases the risk of these tumours in infertile 
women”. 
The SmPCs for Bemfola and Gonal-f contain the 
following warning: “There have been reports of 
ovarian and other reproductive system 
neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women 
who have undergone multiple treatment regimens 
for infertility treatment.  It is not yet established 
whether or not treatment with gonadotropins 
increases the risk of these tumours in infertile 
women”. 
The SmPCs for Bemfola and Gonal-f contain the 
following warning: “Women with a history of tubal 
disease are at risk of ectopic pregnancy, whether 
the pregnancy is obtained by spontaneous 
conception or with fertility treatments.  The 
prevalence of ectopic pregnancy after ART was 
reported to be higher than in the general 
population”. 
The SmPCs for Bemfola and Gonal-f contain the 
following warning: “The prevalence of congenital 
malformations after ART may be slightly higher 
than after spontaneous conceptions.  This is 
thought to be due to differences in parental 
characteristics (e.g. maternal age, sperm 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
characteristics) and multiple pregnancies”. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in female patients >40 years of age 
Bemfola has only been tested in females <40 
years of age. The reference product Gonal-f has 
been used in women >40 years of age without 
identification of any safety risks.  
Given that similarity between Bemfola and Gonal-f 
has been established, Bemfola can also be used in 
women >40 years of age. An ongoing phase-3 
study will provide additional data for females aged 
between 35 and 42 years. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for X can be found on Bemfola’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Phase III 
investigator and 
assessor-blinded 
1:1 randomized 
parallel group 
multi-center study 
Compare efficacy 
and safety of 
2 recombinant- 
human FSH 
formulations 
(Bemfola pen vs. 
Gonal-f RFF pen) in 
normal ovulatory 
women 35 to 42 
years of age 
undergoing IVF. 
Started 
Collect additional 
data to compare 
the risk of OHSS 
between Bemfola 
and the reference 
product. 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
21 April 2016 (final 
Clinical Study 
Report) 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None of the above studies is a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2014. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
