Summary of the risk management plan for Bemrist® Breezhaler®
(indacaterol/mometasone furoate)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Bemrist Breezhaler. The RMP 
details important risks of Bemrist Breezhaler, how these risks can be minimized, and how 
more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Bemrist Breezhaler's  risks  and  uncertainties 
(missing information).
Bemrist Breezhaler’s  summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and  its package leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Bemrist
Breezhaler should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Bemrist Breezhaler should be read in the context of all this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  
Bemrist Breezhaler’s RMP
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Bemrist Breezhaler is authorised for the maintenance treatment of asthma in adults and 
adolescents  12  years  of  age  and  older  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It  contains 
indacaterol acetate and mometasone furoate as the active substance and it is given by the 
inhalation of the content of one capsule once-daily using the Breezhaler® inhaler (Concept 
1).
Further information about the evaluation of Bemrist Breezhaler benefits can be found in 
Bemrist Breezhaler’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/bemrist-breezhaler.
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or further 
characterize the risks
Important risks of Bemrist Breezhaler together with measures to minimize such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Bemrist Breezhaler’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;



Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment 
- so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Bemrist Breezhaler  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Bemrist
Breezhaler.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation.
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
Serious cardiovascular events
None
II B: Summary of important risks
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product.
Table 2
Important potential risk: Serious cardiovascular events
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Current evidence is based on the mechanism of action 
considerations and class effect information. A causal 
association with QMF149 has not been established due to lack 
of adequate statistical or medical evidence of causality in the 
QMF149 program.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Patients with preexisting CCV disease or other CCV risk 
factors.
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.4.
Package leaflet Section 2
Additional risk minimization measures: None
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Bemrist Breezhaler.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Bemrist Breezhaler.
