EMA/89430/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004007 
EPAR summary for the public 
Benepali 
etanercept 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Benepali. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Benepali. 
For practical information about using Benepali, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Benepali and what is it used for? 
Benepali is an anti-inflammatory medicine. It is used for the treatment of the following diseases: 
•  moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (an immune-system disease causing inflammation of the 
joints) in adults (aged 18 years or over). Benepali is used either in combination with methotrexate 
(a medicine that acts on the immune system) in adults with moderate or severe disease who have 
not responded adequately to other treatments, or on its own if methotrexate is not suitable for the 
patient. Benepali can also be used in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis who have not taken 
methotrexate before; 
• 
certain forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (a rare childhood disease causing inflammation of 
joints) in the following groups:  
−  patients aged two to 17 years with disease that affects many joints (polyarthritis which is 
rheumatoid-factor-positive or -negative) and disease that starts in a few joints and then 
extends to many (oligoarthritis) and have not responded adequately to or cannot take 
methotrexate; 
−  adolescents aged 12 to 17 years who have psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly 
patches on the skin and inflammation of the joints) and who have not responded adequately to 
or cannot take methotrexate; 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
−  adolescents aged 12 to 17 years who have enthesitis-related arthritis and have not responded 
adequately to or cannot take standard treatment; 
psoriatic arthritis in adults who have not responded adequately to other treatments; 
severe ankylosing spondylitis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints of the spine) who have 
not responded adequately to other treatments; 
severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (a chronic inflammatory disease of the spine) when 
there are objective signs of inflammation but no abnormalities seen on x-ray; 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin) with moderate to severe 
disease in adults and in patients from the age of six years with long-term severe disease. Benepali 
is used in patients who have not responded to or cannot receive other treatments for this disease. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Benepali contains the active substance etanercept and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that 
Benepali is highly similar to a biological medicine (also known as the ‘reference medicine’) that is 
already authorised in the European Union (EU). The reference medicine for Benepali is Enbrel. For 
more information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer document here.  
How is Benepali used? 
Benepali treatment should be started and supervised by a specialist doctor who has experience in the 
diagnosis and treatment of the diseases that Benepali is used to treat. The medicine can only be 
obtained with a prescription. 
Benepali is available as pre-filled syringes or pens containing a solution for injecting under the skin. 
The usual recommended dose is 50 mg once a week. Treatment with 50 mg twice a week can also be 
used during the first 12 weeks of treatment for plaque psoriasis. The patient or carer can give the 
injection after appropriate training. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
Benepali is not for use in children weighing less than 62.5 kg, as Benepali does not have low-dose 
formulations. 
How does Benepali work? 
The active substance in Benepali, etanercept, is a protein designed to block the activity of a protein in 
the body called tumour necrosis factor (TNF). This protein is found at high levels in patients with the 
diseases that Benepali is used to treat. By blocking TNF, etanercept reduces the inflammation and 
other symptoms of the diseases.  
What benefits of Benepali have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Benepali with Enbrel have shown that the active substance in Benepali is 
highly similar to that in Enbrel in terms of structure, purity and biological activity.  
Because Benepali is a biosimilar medicine, all the studies on effectiveness and safety of etanercept 
carried out with Enbrel do not need to be repeated for Benepali. A study was carried out to show that 
Benepali produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to Enbrel. 
Benepali was also compared with Enbrel in one main study involving 596 adult patients with moderate 
to severe rheumatoid arthritis despite treatment with methotrexate. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the proportion of patients who achieved at least a 20% reduction in ACR scores (a 
measure of painful, swollen joints and other symptoms) after 24 weeks of treatment. Results of this 
study showed that Benepali is as effective as Enbrel at reducing symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis: 
Benepali  
EMA/89430/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
78% of patients given Benepali (193 out of 247) achieved at least a 20% reduction in ACR scores after 
24 weeks of treatment, compared with 80% of patients given Enbrel (188 out of 234). 
What are the risks associated with Benepali? 
The most common side effects with Benepali are injection-site reactions (including bleeding, redness, 
itching, pain and swelling) and infections (including colds, and lung, bladder and skin infections). 
Patients developing a serious infection should stop Benepali treatment. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Benepali, see the package leaflet. 
Benepali must not be used in patients who have or are at risk of sepsis (when bacteria and toxins 
circulate in the blood and start to damage the organs), or in patients with infections. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Benepali approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that, in accordance 
with EU requirements for biosimilar medicines, Benepali has a highly similar structure, purity and 
biological activity to Enbrel and is distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, a study 
comparing Benepali to Enbrel in adults with rheumatoid arthritis showed that both medicines are 
similarly effective. Thus, all these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Benepali will behave 
in the same way in terms of effectiveness in adults as in children in Benepali’s approved indications. 
Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Enbrel, the benefits outweighs the identified risks. The 
Committee recommended that Benepali be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Benepali? 
The company that makes Benepali will provide educational material for doctors expected to prescribe 
the product (to teach patients how to use the pre-filled syringe/pen correctly). The educational 
materials also include a reminder that Benepali is not for use in children and adolescents who weigh 
less than 62.5 kg. Patients who take Benepali must be given the special alert card that summarises 
important safety information about the medicine so they can recognise any serious side effects and 
know when to seek urgent attention from their doctor. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Benepali have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Benepali 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Benepali on 14 January 2016.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Benepali can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Benepali, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2017. 
Benepali  
EMA/89430/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
