SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of BeneFIX.  This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  September  2000.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Haemophilia B is an inherited bleeding disorder characterised by the deficiency in clotting factor IX 
(FIX), 4 to 8 times less common than haemophilia A. There are less than 10,000 patients with 
haemophilia B in the US and Europe. The frequency and type of haemorrhages in individuals with 
haemophilia B depend on the age of the individual and severity of the defect in haemostatic function. 
Factor IX plays an essential role in both the extrinsic and intrinsic haemostatic pathway. Individuals 
with “severe” haemophilia B have FIX levels ≤ 1 International Units (IU) per dl. Persons with 
“moderate” haemophilia B have FIX activity levels of 1 to 5 IU/dl and individuals with “mild” 
haemophilia B have FIX activity levels of 5 to 30 IU/dl.  
Plasma-derived factor IX (pdFIX) products are used routinely to treat patients with this condition. 
Crude FIX-containing concentrates first became available over 30 years ago. These early preparations 
had a very low FIX specific activity (< 5 IU/mg) and were designated as prothrombin complex 
concentrates (PCCs) because they contained factors II, VII, and IX. Early PCCs notably improved 
quality of life, prolonged life span, and increased socio-economic productivity of patients with 
haemophilia B.  
Use of these products has been associated with hypercoagulable states, thromboembolic diseases, and 
may  adversely  affect  immune  function.  The  thrombotic  complications  were  manifested  clinically  as 
arterial  or  venous  thromboses  (including  stroke),  the  development  of  disseminated  intravascular 
coagulation,  pulmonary  emboli,  and  transmural  myocardial  infarctions  in  young  patients.  Clinical 
studies  have  confirmed  that  high-purity  plasma-derived  products  (hp  pd  factor  IX)  have  markedly 
diminished  thrombogenic  potential  as  compared  to  crude  preparations.  Other  clinical  complications 
which  have  occurred  with  plasma-derived  factor  replacement  therapies  have  also  included 
isoagglutinin-associated haemolysis, allergic reaction, and inhibitor development. 
The use of plasma-derived clotting factors also has resulted in the inadvertent transmission of 
pathogenic blood-borne viruses. Moreover recent reports of plasma donors diagnosed with 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) have increased the concern of potential contamination by non-
conventional agents in the blood supply, although the risk of CJD transmission via plasma-derived 
products such as FIX has been considered as extremely remote or theoretical by the experts, on the 
basis of experimental data, and is not supported by any epidemiological evidence. 
The methods currently in place to produce high-purity products incorporate stringent criteria for donor 
selection and steps designed to inactivate or remove multiple lipid-enveloped viruses, such as hepatitis 
B and C viruses and HIV. Recent methods tend to diminish the persistence of nonlipid encapsulated 
viruses (non-enveloped virus), such as parvovirus B19 and hepatitis A virus, but still leaving 
recipients of plasma-derived replacement products potentially vulnerable to the consequence of known 
and hitherto unknown viruses. 
BeneFIX  contains,  as  active  substance,  250  IU,  500  IU  or  1,000  IU  of  the  recombinant  coagulation 
factor  IX  (rFIX;  INN  =  nonacog  alfa).  Nonacog  alfa  has  a  primary  amino  acid  sequence  that  is 
identical to the  Ala148 allelic  form  of plasma-derived factor IX [pdFIX],  and  some  post-translational 
modifications of the recombinant  molecule are  different from those of the plasma-derived  molecule. 
Recombinant  coagulation  factor  IX  is  a  glycoprotein  that  is  secreted  by  genetically  engineered 
mammalian cells derived from a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line. This recombinant factor IX 
was developed in an attempt to avoid or reduce complications arising during therapy:  
1/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In particular, no human or animal proteins are added in the production or formulation of BeneFIX, and 
therefore it is not  contaminated  by human  blood-borne  infectious  agents  or  by other  plasma-derived 
clotting factors (e.g. factors II, VII, and X).  
The therapeutic indications of BeneFIX are for control and prevention of haemorrhagic episodes, and 
for routine and surgical prophylaxis in previously treated patients with haemophilia B (Christmas 
Disease, i.e. congenital factor IX deficiency). The dosage and duration of the substitution therapy 
depends on the severity of the factor IX deficiency, on the location and extent of the bleeding episode, 
on age and clinical condition of the patient and on factor IX recovery. Estimation of the required 
dosage of rFIX can be based on the empirical finding that 1 IU factor IX per kg body weight raises the 
plasma factor IX activity, on an average, by 0.7 IU/dl. However, pharmacokinetics have to be assessed 
regularly in each patient and posology has to be adjusted accordingly. 
2. 
Overview of chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects  
BeneFIX is supplied as a sterile, non-pyrogenic, lyophilised cake for reconstitution with Sterile Water 
for Injections (SWFI), presented in glass vials with rubber stoppers. 
It is a single-use product for intravenous administration. The finished product contains neither 
preservative nor added animal or human components. 
It is available in three dosage strengths (250 IU, 500 IU and 1,000 IU per vial). The powder is to be 
reconstituted with either 5 ml (250 IU and 500 IU) or 10 ml (1,000 IU) water for injection. The vial 
containing the solvent (sterile water for injections, SWFI) is supplied, with the vial of powder, in the 
final package. 
After reconstitution with the appropriate volume of solvent, the rFIX concentration in the finished 
product is either 100 IU/ml (500 IU and 1000 IU presentation) or 50 IU/ml (250 IU presentation). The 
vials contain a slight excess of rFIX to assure withdrawal and administration of the labelled amount. 
The lyophilised powder for injection is produced from a pH 6.8 solution containing rFIX (ca. 
110 IU/ml), 10 mM L-histidine, 260 mM glycine, 1% sucrose and 0.005% polysorbate 80.  
Excipients meet the Eur. Pharmacopoeia Standards. 
The methods used for the preparation of the finished product are widely described, and the process 
validation performed is fully acceptable. Compatibility of the formulation with the container and 
closure system has been assessed through development studies as well as through the formal stability 
program. The consistency of the manufacturing process can be considered demonstrated. 
The manufacturing process as well as the analytical developments has been extensively validated, thus 
providing  good  batch-to-batch  consistency  of  the  process.  Taking  together  the  in-process  controls 
performed and final specifications set up, assurance is provided in terms of production of a consistent 
product of high quality.  
GMP compliance of the manufacturing process has been assessed with the relevant GMP inspections.  
On  the  basis  of  the  experience  gained  in  stability  studies,  the  storage  conditions  proposed  for  the 
active ingredient are considered acceptable. 
The  final  product,  rFIX,  is  a  very  complex,  highly  post-translational  modified  molecule.  The 
recombinant  protein  has  been  characterised  in  detail  and  structural  differences  with  respect  to  post-
translational modifications have been assessed in comparison to pdFIX.  
rFIX is not identical to pdFIX, as there are some differences in post-translational modifications. 
The MAH will perform the testing as required but considered specific testing procedures to be 
confidential in nature and therefore asked the paragraph to be deleted: the Rapporteur’s experts agreed 
2/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assays for the release of lyophilised rFIX drug product are performed on each lot to determine 
identity, purity, potency, and safety.  
The rFIX drug product stability program has been designed in accordance with ICH guidelines. Lots 
of lyophilised rFIX drug product of each of the 250−IU and 1000−IU dosage forms have been placed 
on long-term stability at 2 to 8° C and on accelerated stability at 25° C, 60% relative humidity, and at 
40° C, 75% relative humidity, thereby bracketing the 500-IU dosage form which has the identical 
formulation, stopper, and glass type. 
The stability of rFIX drug product is being assessed via a subset of the release assays. 
A container-closure integrity test is also being performed annually at 12, 24, and 36 months for all lots 
on long-term and accelerated stability. 
rFIX drug product has been stored at 2 to 8° C for 36 months and at 25° C, at 60% relative humidity 
for 12 months. All assays indicate that rFIX drug product is stable and has shown no significant 
change with respect to identity, strength, quality, and purity. The approved shelf life is 36 months at 2-
8° C. 
For the purpose of ambulatory use the product may be removed from such storage for one single 
period of maximum 1 month at room temperature (up to 25°C). At the end of this period, the product 
should not be put back in the refrigerator. 
As follow-up measures, the company will address minor points for clarifications as well as additional 
information on the manufacturing process. The data has been assessed at the annual re-evaluation of 
the dossier. 
3. 
Overview of toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Toxicology 
BeneFIX has been evaluated in toxicology studies performed in different animal species for periods of 
1 day to 28 days. No indications of systemic toxicity were seen in two species at intravenous doses as 
high as 200 IU/kg. Intraperitoneal doses of 500 to 2500 IU/kg in the mouse indicated activation of 
coagulation as determined by the presence of widespread thrombosis and clinical laboratory evidence 
of consumptive coagulopathy, and all adverse effects in the animals were related to these. Similar 
effects have been described in the same species treated with pdFIX preparations. 
Time and dose-dependent antibody development was seen. Adverse clinical signs observed were 
consistent with mild anaphylaxis and correlated with development of anti-FIX antibodies. This 
immunological response of the animals to a human protein, limit the value of the repeated dose studies 
performed with respect to the pharmacokinetic parameters. 
Mutagenicity 
rFIX was evaluated for mutagenic potential in the Ames assay with and without metabolic activation 
assay measuring chromosome aberrations in human blood lymphocytes. No evidence of mutagenicity 
was observed in these two in vitro tests. 
No reproductive, developmental or carcinogenicity studies have been done for rFIX. These omissions 
have been noted in the SPC. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  pharmacology  studies  focused  on  the  canine  model  of  haemophilia  B  as  a 
relevant model of efficacy for the human factor IX deficiency. The results indicate that rFIX restores 
the clotting defect in factor IX-deficient canine plasma and improves haemostasis in the genetic model 
of factor IX deficiency. In addition, evaluation in a modified Wessler Stasis model has shown rFIX to 
have low thrombogenicity. 
3/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of rFIX have been determined after single and multiple intravenous doses 
in  different  species.  The  PK  parameter  estimates  were  linear  across  all  doses  evaluated  (40  to  200 
IU/kg), and accumulation of rFIX was not found. The PK parameters obtained in studies comparing 
rFIX  to  pdFIX  were  similar  to  those  obtained  in  human  studies  with  respect  to  maximum  FIX 
concentrations, distribution and elimination half-lives and clearance and show a 30% lower recovery 
of rFIX in comparison to pdFIX. The lower recovery of rFIX in comparison to pdFIX may be due to 
different post-translational modifications compared to pdFIX. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical trials submitted in support of the Marketing Authorisation application were planned in 
accordance with the CPMP guideline (at that stage in draft) for evaluation of plasma derived factor IX 
concentrates with regard to patient numbers, pharmacokinetic and laboratory evaluations and surgeries 
performed. However these guidelines can only be taken as a minimum recommendation, especially 
because they are not intended to cover the development of recombinant DNA coagulation factors. 
Four clinical studies provided data presented in the dossier to support the MAH application, three 
carried out in PTPs and one in PUPs. 
Patients with various degrees of severity of the disease (most suffering of a severe form) were enrolled 
from 15 participating centres in the United States (N = 11) and in Europe (N = 4).  
The clinical experience, provided to support the Marketing Authorisation application, referred to 2333 
cumulative exposure days (median of 37 days) for 693 bleeding episodes and many prophylaxis 
infusions. Forty-four PTPs and 33 PUPs were enrolled.  
This overview is now updated with the post-authorisation experience. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Information known pre-authorisation 
Data on PK were provided by studies designed in agreement with the EU guideline for pdFIX. The 
pharmacokinetic parameter estimates for rFIX were consistent across all studies involving previously 
treated patients. 
In the crossover pharmacokinetic evaluation of rFIX and a pdFIX in PTPs (n = 11), infusion of rFIX 
into patients with haemophilia B resulted in in-vivo recoveries of 38 ± 14 %. 
The plasma half-life of rFIX was 18.1 ± 5.1 hours.  
The PK crossover comparison study of rFIX and a pdFIX indicated that the elimination half-lives were 
nearly identical (17.7 ± 5.3 hrs for the pdFIX) whereas the in-vivo recoveries were statistically 
different (53 ± 12 % for the pdFIX). 
The observed mean 0.75 IU/dl rise in rFIX activity per IU/kg of rFIX administered was at the lower 
end of the range of what is known for plasma-derived human coagulation factor IX concentrates. 
The lower extent of sulfation and lack of phosphorylation of rFIX may account for the 30% lower 
recovery of BeneFIX compared to pdFIX. Individual adjustment of posology to clinical response may 
be needed as mentioned in the SPC. 
Post-authorisation update 
The in vivo recovery is lower than expected from the first clinical studies. Infusion of BeneFIX into 56 
patients with haemophilia B has shown an in vivo recovery ranging from 15 to 62% (mean 33.7 +/- 
10.3%).  One International Unit of BeneFIX showed a mean 0.75 IU/dL (range 0.3 to 1.4 IU/dL) 
4/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increase in the circulating level of factor IX.  The biologic half-life ranged from 11 to 36 hours (mean 
of 19.3 +/- 5.0 hours). A 30% lower recovery of rFIX in comparison to pdFIX was shown. 
The SPC was amended accordingly through a type II variation. The new wording included revised 
information on posology, pharmacokinetics and adverse reactions, including cases of severe 
anaphylaxis.  A positive opinion was adopted by the CPMP on 23 July 1998. The Commission 
Decision amending the Marketing Authorisation was adopted on 11 November 1998. 
Clinical Efficacy 
A) 
Previously Treated Patients (PTPs) and PTPs in surgery 
Information known pre-authorisation 
Data on safety and efficacy of rFIX in previously treated patients (PTPs) with moderate or severe 
haemophilia B were obtained from the study C9417-21 and treatment of bleeding intra- and post-
operatively from the surgical segments of the 2 studies C9407-21 and C9408-21 if they were to 
undergo any major or minor elective surgical procedures that required factor IX replacement therapy. 
The studies C9407-21 and C9408-21 consisted of three segments: an open-label, baseline 
pharmacokinetic evaluation of rFIX followed by replacement treatment appropriate for each individual 
patient.  
Treatment allowed on-demand therapy identical to that of the second segment of C9407-21 and 
routine secondary prophylaxis for patient who had been on such a prophylactic regimen for at least 6 
months. 
Clinical efficacy was assessed in several ways: 
-  
-  
-  
-  
response per infusion for bleeding episodes was assessed subjectively and reported according to 
a four-point scale (“excellent”, “good”, “moderate”, and “no response”); 
in the surgical setting, efficacy parameters in addition to response included estimated total blood 
loss during and after the procedure and any blood transfusion requirement; 
to prevent haemorrhages, intermittent prophylaxis (prophylaxis given to prevent haemorrhages 
during particularly active days -e.g., before sports or exercise, or to facilitate healing of a “target 
joint”)  was  assessed  by  evaluating  the  objective  data  regarding  the  presence  or  absence  of  a 
spontaneous musculoskeletal bleeding episode or the resolution of the target joint or both; 
routine prophylaxis was assessed every 3 months or when a change of regimen was necessary 
according to a three-point scale of “excellent” (no spontaneous musculoskeletal bleeding 
episodes), “effective” (reduced number of spontaneous musculoskeletal bleeding episodes 
during prophylactic regimen), and “inadequate” (change in prophylactic regimen necessary). 
Failure of rFIX to control or prevent bleeding episodes was defined as follows: 
- 
- 
lack of response in controlling bleeding episodes (on-demand treatment): No response after two 
successive infusions within 24 hours for the same haemorrhage in the absence of confounding 
factors attributable to the bleeding episode or clinical condition of the patient; 
failure of rFIX in prophylaxis: Occurrence of a spontaneous musculoskeletal bleeding episode 
within 48 hours of a prophylactic infusion of rFIX on two or more occasions in the absence of 
other confounding factors (e.g., trauma, injury, incorrect dose). 
Of the 693 haemorrhages treated, 566 (82%) resolved after a single infusion of BeneFIX. Out of 972 
infusions, 815 (84%) infusions were rated to have good/excellent responses. Moderate responses were 
reported for 139 infusions (14%). Fifteen infusions could not be rated because the site of bleeding was 
unknown or could not be compared to previous episodes. Three infusions for 3 separate haemorrhages 
did not provide any response. 
The study results of rFIX used for on-demand treatment, for prophylaxis, and during surgery in these 
patients, all demonstrate that rFIX shows an overall favourable efficacy profile. Several patients, 
5/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
however, had spontaneous breakthrough bleedings despite prophylaxis possibly due to insufficient 
trough levels of factor IX activity. 
There was a trend towards the need of increased doses which is in accordance with the results of the 
pharmacokinetic evaluations. Patients undergoing surgeries were treated successfully with rFIX. 
The need for an increased dosage of BeneFIX is not fully explained. During the clinical studies the 
dosing of BeneFIX increased in several patients for the treatment of bleeding episodes or prophylaxis. 
Genetics Institute, the MAH at the time, was asked to provide precise statistics on the relation between 
the dosage and the clinical response in all patients enrolled in the studies. 
Post-authorisation update 
The amount of BeneFIX to be infused, as well as the frequency of infusion, varies with the patient and 
clinical situation. At the time of the grant of the Marketing Authorisation, the clinical data indicated 
that estimation of the required dose of BeneFIX could be based on the empirical finding that one unit 
of factor IX activity per kilogram of body weight was expected to increase the circulation level of 
factor IX on an average by 0.8 IU/dl. Information submitted at the time of the first periodic safety 
update report (PSUR) indicates that the average increase in circulating factor IX is 0.7 IU/dl (range 
from 0.3 to 1.4 IU/dl). 
At the time of the first PSUR, 57 PTPs have been enrolled in the PTP studies C9407-21 and C9408-
21. Five patients have withdrawn their consent to participate in the studies. Twenty-one patients have 
completed  the  study  and  31  patients  are  attending  follow-up  visits.  Nine  of  the  52  patients  showed 
alterations  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  or  increase  in  FIX  consumption.  The  trend  towards  an 
increase  of  dose  or  frequency  of  rFIX  treatment,  already  noted  at  the  time  of  the  grant  of  the 
Marketing Authorisation, is still ongoing and remains unexplained. 
In the data available in support of the application for a Marketing Authorisation, 73% of the doses 
administered were less than 50 IU/kg. The update provided with the first PSUR showed that 57% of 
patients increased their doses. Due to recovery or to obtain sufficient therapeutic response or both, 
thirty-six out of fifty two PTPs have received doses higher than 50 IU/kg. Therefore, close monitoring 
of factor IX plasma activity should be performed, as well as pharmacokinetic parameters such as 
recovery and half-life, as clinically indicated, in order to adjust doses as appropriate. The SPC has 
been updated and states that pharmacokinetics have to be assessed regularly in each patient and 
posology adjusted accordingly. 
Fifty patients completed the study and 7 patients withdrew participation in the study (including one 
patient who withdrew before treatment). Throughout the study, dosing remained consistent, with 67% 
of the does used ranging from >20 to ≤50IU/kg. Analysis of dosing pattern shows that 31 of the 54 
evaluable PTPs over an extended length of time required dose adjustment. Of these 31 patients, 16 
were less than 15 years of age, an age group in which it has been shown that the average recovery is 
lower. 
Clinical Safety 
Information known pre-authorisation 
Safety was assessed in both previously treated and untreated patients and reported on the basis of the 
development of neutralising (inhibitor) and non-neutralising antibodies to FIX. Data were submitted 
from 44 PTPs, out of whom 39 receiving regularly BeneFIX were monitored up to six months or 50 
exposure days. 
In addition, the incidence and severity of adverse events, and any changes in the laboratory test results 
over time, including the results of repeat pharmacokinetic evaluations and seroconversion or evidence 
of infection to HIV 1 and 2 or hepatitis A, B, or C after repeated exposure to rFIX during the treatment 
study segments were assessed.  
There were 54 adverse events reported that were considered definitely, possibly or probably related to 
6/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the study drug by the investigator. The rate of adverse events to number of infusions is 2.2% 
(54/2418). The rate of adverse events to number of exposure days is 2.3% (54/2333). 
• 
• 
Viral surveillance showed no seroconversion to hepatitis A, B, or C with the exception of a 
patient who received hepatitis A vaccination shortly after enrolling in the study. 
Thrombogenic potential 
The results of two clinical studies demonstrated that rFIX has extremely low thrombogenic 
potential. 
The occurrence of phlebitis was described in one patient and was rated as possibly related to the use of 
BeneFIX. One patient experienced a renal infarction: the causality link with the administration of 
BeneFIX was not established. 
The company is asked to carefully monitor for any evidence of thrombogenicity in the BeneFIX 
treated patients and to submit regularly the relevant data in the Periodic Safety Update Reports. Data 
on intravascular coagulation markers (Prothrombin fragments 1 and 2, TAT and D-dimer) in at least 
12 patients will be submitted in the first periodic safety up-date. 
• 
Neoantigenicity and Inhibitor development in PTPs 
The current experience with this product, as far as neoantigenicity is concerned, should be 
considered as limited. 
One of the 44 PTPs recruited in the BeneFIX studies has developed a clinically significant persistent 
inhibitor with a titre of about 1 Bethesda unit. This event was not expected as inhibitor development is 
an extremely remote event in previously treated Haemophilia B patients. Indeed, the patient had been 
previously exposed for more than 500 exposure days to pdFIX.  
The  unexpected  development  of  a  persistent  inhibitor  in  one  patient  treated  with  BeneFIX  could  be 
considered as a signal for a higher neoantigenicity of the rFIX product than plasma derived factor IX. 
Therefore, from the presently available data, it cannot be concluded, whether the persistent inhibitor 
development in one case is an isolated event or whether the rFIX bears the risk of product specific 
neoantigenicity. The fate and the type of this inhibitor over time will be important observations. 
Further follow up data on all previously treated patients enrolled in the clinical studies are required by 
the CPMP. The Company in their response to the CPMP committed to and has completed the PTPs 
studies (C9407-21 and C9408-21) in which the 44 enrolled patients remained on study for two years. 
Patients enrolled in the Surgery study (C9417-21) were followed for any adverse events for 12 
months.  
The potential risk of neoantigenicity and the trend towards the need of increased dosage of BeneFIX 
should be carefully weighted against inherent risks with pdFIX. 
Post-authorisation update 
• 
Thrombogenic potential 
Data  on  intravascular  coagulation  markers  were  submitted  with  the  first  PSUR.  Prothrombin 
fragments 1 and 2, TAT and D-dimer were evaluated for 4 patients. TAT and D-dimer were evaluated 
for  a  further  2  patients.  There  was  no  evidence  of  increased  coagulation  activation,  as  measured  by 
these coagulation markers, in the 6 patients. Data since 1997 to date (February 2004) indicate that 8 
reports  of  thrombogenicity  (plausible  diagnosis)  have  been  reported,  all  associated  with  indwelling 
intravenous catheters and/or continuous infusions of BeneFIX. 
7/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Neoantigenicity and Inhibitor development in PTPs 
The  observed  alterations  in  pharmacokinetics  as  well  as  the  clinical  finding  of  increased  factor  IX 
consumption  in  some  patients  were  signs  suggestive  of  inhibitor  formation.  Patients  have  been 
investigated for inhibitors using 3 assay methods: 
- 
- 
- 
The Bethesda Inhibitor Assay (BIA) with a 5-minute incubation 
The BIA with a 2-hour incubation (the longer incubation increases sensitivity for the detection 
of hypothetical Type 2 inhibitors.) 
An anti-rFIX ELISA. 
The MAH has shown that the ELISA is the most sensitive  of the three  methods for the  detection of 
both  inhibitory  and  non-inhibitory  antibodies  to  factor  IX.  The  anti-rFIX  ELISA  and  the  BIA  (5 
minute  incubation)  have  been  performed  on  the  52  patients  in  the  study.  Samples  from  31  patients 
have been investigated  with the BIA (2 hour incubation).  To date, one case of low-titre responding 
transient inhibitor (maximum titre 1.5 BU) has been detected out of 65 BeneFIX patients (including 9 
patients participating only in the surgery study). This case was already known. 
The MAH is continuing to investigate all patients included in studies for inhibitors. Furthermore, since 
there have been reports in the literature of a correlation between the occurrence of a factor IX inhibitor 
to pdFIX and allergic reactions, the MAH will also investigate all patients showing allergic reactions 
under treatment with BeneFIX for possible inhibitors. 
B) 
Previously Untreated Patients (PUPs) 
Study C9418-21 is an ongoing efficacy and safety study of previously untreated patients with severe 
or moderately severe haemophilia B. Treatment may include primary prophylaxis to prevent all 
bleeding episodes. According to the protocol the patients in this study will be followed for a minimum 
of 2 years and up to 100 exposure days or 5 years, whichever is sooner. The PUPs study began in 
December 1995.  
As up to February 1997, 33 PUPs have been enrolled and 19 had received at least one dose of 
BeneFIX. This is in line with the EU guideline recommendation for pdFIX, which states that at least, 
fifteen patients should be studied. 
Preliminary data indicate that no serious adverse events have occurred, and no inhibitor has been 
reported. However, in the light that the accrual is still ongoing, and considering that the risk of 
inhibitors development cannot be ruled out it is recommended that the trial be completed before the 
indication in PUPs is granted. Indeed, this trial is designed to continue for five years or 100 exposure 
days per patient, whichever occurs sooner. “Up to now, no conclusive results have been obtained from 
clinical studies on the treatment of previously untreated patients”-as mentioned in the SPC. 
Post-authorisation update 
A total of 67 PUPs were enrolled into the study including 4 subjects who were not treated.  Out of the 
63  treated  subjects,  40  completed  treatment  and  final  visit  as  defined  by  the  protocol,  12  withdrew 
consent or assent, 4 discontinued because of protocol violation or non-compliance, 3 discontinued at 
the investigator’s discretion, 2 discontinued at the sponsor’s discretion, 1 discontinued because of FIX 
inhibitor development, and 1 patient was lost to follow-up. 
Two patients out of the 63 patients developed inhibitors after 7 and 15 exposure days.  Both were high 
titre inhibitors.  Both patients experienced allergic manifestations in temporal association with their 
inhibitor development. 
8/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
C) 
Post-Authorisation Safety Information 
On  31  January  1998  the  company  has  submitted  the  first  periodic  safety  update  report  (PSUR) 
covering the period from 11 February to 11 November 1997. All adverse drug reactions reported by a 
health care professional from the post marketing experience in the United State during this nine-month 
period were compiled and analysed. Following the evaluation of this PSUR by the Rapporteur and Co-
Rapporteur,  concerns  were  raised  about  the  occurrence  of  allergic  reactions,  bleedings  and  the 
suspicion  of  inhibitor  development  in  patients  receiving  BeneFIX.  Information  relevant  to  the  latter 
two issues has been presented in the relevant sections above. 
Eleven  cases  of  allergic  reactions  have  been  reported.  The  company  has  estimated  that  allergic 
reactions have been reported in about 2 to 5 patients receiving BeneFIX out of 1000. These reactions 
could  be  serious  since  3  patients  have  suffered  from  anaphylactic  reactions  considered  as  life 
threatening. The non-serious allergic reactions included cutaneous or respiratory symptoms.  Three of 
the  patients  who experienced allergic  reactions  had  a history of  allergy  to FIX, including  1  of  the  3 
patients  who  suffered  from  anaphylactic  reactions.    The  aetiology  of  the  remaining  cases  is  still 
unknown and allergic reactions due to host cell proteins have not been ruled out.  
Because of the risk of allergic reactions, patients should be informed of early signs of hypersensitivity 
reactions, such as hives or shortness of breath, and of the possibility of anaphylactic reaction. The 
initial administrations of BeneFIX should, according to the treating physician’s judgement, be 
performed under medical observation where proper medical care for allergic reactions could be 
provided. If allergic or anaphylactic-type reactions occur, the administration of BeneFIX has to be 
discontinued immediately and an appropriate treatment has to be initiated.  
It has been reported in the literature that patients developing inhibitors to factor IX may be at an 
increased risk of anaphylaxis with subsequent challenge with factor IX. Therefore patients 
experiencing allergic reactions should be evaluated for the presence of an inhibitor although in the 
patients tested so far there is no proof for additional inhibitor development.  
The CPMP considered that further attention should be given to this issue and that the company has to 
send further information on patients experiencing allergic reactions with the second PSUR. The CPMP 
considered it appropriate to modify the present SPC and Package Leaflet in order to provide adequate 
information about this risk to the prescriber and the patient. The amended SPC and Package Leaflet 
were approved following the submission of a Type II Variation and the Commission Decision was 
issued on 11 November 1998.   
1st Annual Reassessment 
The clinical data accumulated at the time of the first and second PSURs confirmed reduced efficacy 
due to lower recovery compared with pdFIX with a consequent need to increase the dose and/or 
frequency of dosing. Some allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported in the first 
and second PSURs. Their exact aetiology is still unknown. The MAH has been asked to carefully 
monitor and investigate patients exhibiting allergic reactions and to continue their investigations into 
the possibility of inhibitor development. These above mentioned factors have, on an individual basis, 
to be weighed against the better viral safety profile of rFIX. 
The CPMP, having reviewed the evidence of compliance with the specific obligations submitted by 
the MAH and having re-assessed the benefit/risk profile of the medicinal product, recommended that 
no amendment of the SPC or PL is necessary as part of the Annual Reassessment and that the 
marketing authorisation remains under exceptional circumstances. 
2nd Annual Reassessment 
Post licensure experience with rFIX has been obtained from approximately 2885 patients with a total 
of  254,625,040  IU  in  the  US,  Canada  and  five  European  countries  (Denmark,  France,  Germany, 
9/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland, United Kingdom). In addition 127 patients have been treated or are under treatment in clinical 
trials. 
The recovery of rFIX is lower than the recovery of pdFIX. A need for increased dosing with rFIX can 
be clearly attributed to the established lower recovery. 
Reduced  efficacy  due  to  lower  recovery  compared  with  pdFIX,  i.e.  reports  of  haemorrhage  with  a 
consequent need to increase the dose and/or frequency of dosing, is reported in fewer cases during the  
4th  PSUR  observation  period.  This  might  be  a  result  of  the  change  of  the  SPC  and  Patient  Leaflet, 
adopted by the CPMP on 23 July 1998, addressing this issue.  
Allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported. Their exact aetiology is still unknown, 
although the MAH has taken a number of actions to investigate the aetiology of these reactions. The 
Company has been asked to carefully monitor and investigate patients exhibiting allergic reactions and 
to continue their investigations into the possibility of inhibitor development. 
The progress of these investigations has to be reported with subsequent PSURs. Two phase IV clinical 
studies evaluating allergic reactions after exposure to BeneFIX are ongoing. 
The risk of neoantigenicity was a concern due to the development of an inhibitor in one patient during 
the  PTP  study  submitted  with  the  original  submission.  Up  to  the  present  time,  no  further  inhibitors 
have  been  found  in  BeneFIX  treated  PTPs.  In  addition  there  has  been  no  evidence  of  thrombotic 
events of any clinical significance occurring with BeneFIX treatment during the period covered by the 
3rd and 4th PSURs. Furthermore, there is no evidence of transmission of HIV or hepatitis A, B or C as 
a result of rFIX treatment. 
These  above  mentioned  factors  have,  on  an  individual  basis,  to  be  weighed  against  the  better  viral 
safety  profile  of  rFIX.  Therefore  a  close  monitoring  for  reports  of  anaphylactic/allergic  reactions, 
inhibitor development, thrombosis and haemorhage/ lack of effect for BeneFIX must be continued. 
No new safety issues have arisen since the first annual reassessment. Most reported adverse events are 
already  included  in  the  SPC  and  PL  or  are  isolated  cases  for  which  there  is  often  a  more  probable 
alternative cause other than BeneFIX. No further amendments of the SPC are necessary at the present 
time. 
In view of a favorable safety profile regarding the transmission of infectious agents (BeneFIX does not 
include as constituents any protein of human or animal origin) a positive benefit/risk profile remains 
since the first annual re-assessment. However, BeneFIX should be further subject to annual reviews 
until the open issue of GCP compliance of the PTP as well as the PUP study is solved. 
The CPMP, having reviewed the evidence of compliance with the specific obligations submitted by 
the MAH and having re-assessed the benefit/risk profile of the medicinal product, recommended that 
no amendment of the SPC or PL is necessary as part of this Annual Reassessment and that the 
marketing authorisation remains under exceptional circumstances. 
Conclusion 
In view of the limited availability of plasma and the potential risk of transmission of infectious agents 
by plasma-derived coagulation factor concentrates, there is a public interest in a recombinant blood 
coagulation factor IX product. The manufacturing process of BeneFIX does not include as constituents 
any protein of human or animal origin. 
Major objections have been addressed by the CPMP on January 21, 1997. The company was able to 
provide additional clinical data to fulfil requirements of the Note for Guidance (CPMP/BPWP/198/95) 
regarding the number of followed previously treated patients (PTPs). However, the concern of 
neoantigenicity raised by the occurrence of an inhibitor in one of the PTPs has not been completely 
resolved.  
10/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risk of neoantigenicity of this recombinant factor IX was carefully weighed against the risk of 
contamination with non-enveloped viruses or unknown transmissible agents by pdFIX products, and 
of shortage of plasma due to plasma batches recall. The need to have a suitable alternative to pdFIX 
for haemophilia B patients was discussed and acknowledged. 
A positive CPMP opinion for granting the marketing authorisation was adopted, under the exceptional 
circumstances foreseen in Part 4G of the Annex to Council Directive 318/75/EEC, first indent, 
because “the indication for which the product in question is intended is encountered so rarely that the 
applicant cannot reasonably be expected to provide comprehensive evidence” under normal conditions 
of use. 
The company was asked to carefully monitor PTPs treated with BeneFIX for any evidence of inhibitor 
occurrence and will submit the relevant data in accordance with the current EU legislation, to follow 
patients enrolled in the surgery study for any adverse events, to provide additional information on the 
relation between the dosage and the clinical response in all patients enrolled in the studies, and to 
carefully monitor the intravascular coagulation markers in the treated patients. 
The clinical data accumulated at the time of the first PSUR confirmed reduced efficacy due to lower 
recovery compared with pdFIX with a consequent need to increase the dose and/or frequency of 
dosing. Some allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported in the first PSUR. Their 
exact aetiology is still unknown. The company has been asked to carefully monitor and investigate 
patients exhibiting allergic reactions and to continue their investigations into the possibility of 
inhibitor development.  
Post-marketing experience has produced data in a larger patient population with haemophilia B and 
has provided additional insight into potential emerging safety issues with the use of BeneFIX. In 
preparation for post-marketing surveillance, the MAH initially identified 2 areas a priori that would 
require careful monitoring: incidence of inhibitor development and thrombogenicity. After the first 
year of commercial availability, the MAH identified two additional areas necessitating special 
vigilance: lack of effect/haemorrhage and allergic-type manifestations. 
These  above  mentioned  factors  have,  on  an  individual  basis,  to  be  weighed  against  the  better  viral 
safety  profile  of  rFIX.  Therefore  a  close  monitoring  for  reports  of  anaphylactic/allergic  reactions, 
inhibitor  development,  thrombosis  and  haemorhage/  lack  of  effect  for  BeneFIX  must  be  continued. 
The MAH will continue to monitor these issues as part of future PSURs. BeneFIX should be further 
subject to annual reviews until the open issue of GCP compliance of the PTP as well as the PUP study 
is solved.   
11/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
