24 October 2013 
EMA/CHMP/13369/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Benlysta 
International non-proprietary name: belimumab 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/002015/PSUV/0019 
Period covered by the PSUR: 9 September 2012 – 8 March 2013 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Benlysta, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
The MAH has presented a PSUR according to the the GVP module VII. Three signals have been 
investigated (Fatigue, suicide and hypersentity reaction). Although hypersensitivity reactions are 
broadly covered in the current Global Data Sheet (GDS) as is a delay in the onset of acute 
hypersensitivity reactions, delayed-type (non-acute) hypersensitivity reactions are not specifically 
labelled. This review provides evidence for an association of belimumab with delayed-type (non-
acute) hypersensitivity reactions. This evidence consists of two clinical trial cases which, although 
they contain confounding factors, most likely indicate non-serious events of delayed-type 
hypersensitivity, and one serious spontaneous case for which limited information is available but 
does include report of positive re-challenge. Additionally, delayed-type (non-acute) hypersensitivity 
reactions are known to occur in association with other monoclonal antibodies, which provides further 
support for an association with belimumab. Therefore, in view of the available data, the PRAC 
considered that changes to the product information as discussed above were acceptable.  The risk of 
Delayed-type, non-acute hypersensitivity reactions will be included in the updated SmPC. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Benlysta, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance BELIMUMAB is favourable 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Benlysta  
EMA/CHMP/13369/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
