EMA/204539/2021 
EMEA/H/C/002015 
Benlysta (belimumab) 
An overview of Benlysta and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Benlysta and what is it used for? 
Benlysta is a medicine used as an add-on treatment in  patients aged 5  years and older with  systemic 
lupus erythematosus (SLE),  a disease in which  the immune system (the  body’s natural defences) 
attacks normal cells and tissues, causing inflammation and organ damage. Benlysta is given to patients 
whose disease is still highly active despite standard treatment.  
Benlysta is also used in adults  to treat active lupus  nephritis, a manifestation of SLE causing kidney 
damage. In this case, it is given in combination with  different immunosuppressants (medicines that 
reduce the activity of the immune system).  
Benlysta contains the  active substance belimumab. 
How is Benlysta used? 
Benlysta can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should only be started and supervised 
by a doctor who has experience in the  diagnosis and treatment of SLE. 
Benlysta is given as an infusion (drip) into  a vein; it  is also available as a pre-filled pen and pre-filled 
syringe for injection under the skin.  
When Benlysta is given as an infusion into  a vein, the recommended dose is 10 mg per kilogram body 
weight  given over one hour. The first three doses are given at two-week intervals. After this,  Benlysta 
is given once every four weeks.  
In adults with  SLE, Benlysta can also be given as a 200-mg injection under the skin, once a week. In 
adults with  active lupus  nephritis, patients receiving Benlysta for the first time should be given a 400-
mg dose injection under the skin (as two 200 mg injections) once a week for the  first 4 weeks, then 
move to a 200-mg dose once weekly. Patients may inject Benlysta themselves once they have been 
properly trained, if the doctor considers this appropriate. 
The doctor may interrupt or stop treatment if the patient  develops reactions linked to the infusion 
(such as rash, itchiness and difficulty breathing) or hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions which  may be 
severe and life-threatening and can develop several hours after Benlysta is given. Patients  should 
therefore be observed for several hours after at least the  first two infusions. All infusions with 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Benlysta, and the first  injection under the skin, should be given in  a place where these reactions can 
be managed immediately if they occur.  
For more information about using Benlysta, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist.How does Benlysta work? 
SLE can affect almost any organ in the  body and is thought  to involve a type of white  blood cell called 
B lymphocytes. Usually, B lymphocytes produce antibodies which help to fight  infections. In SLE, some 
of these antibodies attack the body’s own cells and organs instead (autoantibodies). In lupus nephritis, 
the autoantibodies attack the kidneys, in  particular, stopping  them from working properly. 
The active substance in Benlysta, belimumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a protein that has been 
designed to  attach to and block a protein called BLyS which helps B lymphocytes to live longer. By 
blocking the action of BLyS, belimumab reduces the life span of B lymphocytes, thereby reducing the 
inflammation and organ damage that occur in SLE. 
What benefits of Benlysta have been shown in studies? 
Benlysta given by infusion  was shown to  be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) in 
reducing disease activity when used as an add-on treatment  for SLE in two  main studies involving 
1,693  adult patients with  active SLE. In the first study, disease activity decreased in 43%  of patients 
treated with  Benlysta, compared with  34% of patients who were given placebo. In the second study, 
disease activity decreased in 58%  of patients  treated with Benlysta, compared with 44%  of patients 
who were given placebo.  
Results from a main study involving 93 children aged 5 to 17  years with active SLE showed that 
Benlysta was distributed  in the body in  a similar way as in adults and could be expected to have similar 
benefits. 
Another study involved 836 adult  patients with  active SLE, who received add-on Benlysta as an 
injection under the skin once a week for a year. The study showed that disease activity decreased in 
61% of patients treated with  Benlysta, compared with  48% of patients  given placebo. 
A study in 448 patients  aged 18 or above with  active lupus nephritis showed that,  after 2  years, 43% 
of patients given Benlysta had acceptable kidney function  and levels of protein in the urine (a sign of 
kidney damage), compared with 32%  in the placebo group. All patients received standard 
immunosuppressive therapy for active lupus nephritis in  addition to Benlysta or to placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Benlysta? 
The most common adverse effects with  Benlysta added to treatment for SLE (which may affect more 
than 1 in  10 patients) are viral upper respiratory tract infections,  bronchitis (bacterial lung  infection) 
and diarrhoea. The most common adverse effects when Benlysta was used with immunosuppressants 
to treat lupus nephritis  are upper respiratory tract infection,  infection of the  urinary tract (structures 
that  carry urine) and Herpes zoster (shingles). For the  full list of side effects and restrictions of 
Benlysta, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Benlysta authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that  Benlysta’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it  can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  The Agency considered that  Benlysta, used as an add-on treatment, 
reduced disease activity in SLE. In SLE patients with  active lupus nephritis, for whom there is a high 
unmet medical need, Benlysta used with  immunosuppressants reduced damage to the kidneys. The 
Benlysta (belimumab)  
EMA/204539/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
medicine may cause infusion and hypersensitivity reactions as well as infections but is generally well 
tolerated. The Agency also noted the lack of effective alternative treatments for patients  who have 
already tried standard treatments.   
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Benlysta? 
The company that  markets Benlysta will provide further information on the safety of the  medicine from 
a study and from a register of patients being followed up long-term. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Benlysta have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Benlysta are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Benlysta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Benlysta 
Benlysta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  European Union on 13  July 2011. 
Further information on Benlysta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/benlysta.  
This overview was last updated in  04-2021.   
Benlysta (belimumab)  
EMA/204539/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
