ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See 
section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Pre-filled pen 
Each 1-mL pre-filled pen contains 200 mg of belimumab. 
Pre-filled syringe 
Each 1-mL pre-filled syringe contains 200 mg of belimumab. 
Belimumab is a human, IgG1λ monoclonal antibody, produced in a mammalian cell line (NS0) by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen (injection) 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe (injection) 
A clear to opalescent, colourless to pale yellow solution, with a pH of 6. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Benlysta is indicated as add-on therapy in adult patients with active, autoantibody-positive systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease activity (e.g., positive anti-dsDNA and low complement) 
despite standard therapy (see section 5.1). 
Benlysta is indicated in combination with background immunosuppressive therapies for the treatment of 
adult patients with active lupus nephritis (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Benlysta treatment should be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of SLE. It is recommended that the first subcutaneous injection of Benlysta should be under 
the supervision of a healthcare professional in a setting that is sufficiently qualified to manage 
hypersensitivity reactions, if necessary. The healthcare professional must provide proper training in 
subcutaneous technique and education about signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions (see 
section 4.4). A patient may self-inject, or the patient caregiver may administer Benlysta after the healthcare 
professional determines that it is appropriate. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
SLE 
The recommended dose is 200 mg once weekly, administered subcutaneously. Dosing is not based on weight 
(see section 5.2). The patient’s condition should be evaluated continuously. Discontinuation of treatment 
with Benlysta should be considered if there is no improvement in disease control after 6 months of treatment. 
Lupus nephritis 
In patients initiating therapy with Benlysta for active lupus nephritis, the recommended dosage regimen is a 
400 mg dose (two 200 mg injections) once weekly for 4 doses, then 200 mg once weekly thereafter. In 
patients continuing therapy with Benlysta for active lupus nephritis, the recommended dosage is 200 mg 
once weekly. Benlysta should be used in combination with corticosteroids and mycophenolate or 
cyclophosphamide for induction, or mycophenolate or azathioprine for maintenance. The patient’s condition 
should be evaluated continuously. 
Missed doses 
If a dose is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible. Thereafter, patients can resume dosing on 
their usual day of administration, or start a new weekly schedule from the day that the missed dose was 
administered. 
Changing the weekly dosing day 
If patients wish to change their weekly dosing day, a new dose can be given on the newly preferred day of 
the week. Thereafter the patient should continue with the new weekly schedule from that day, even if the 
dosing interval may be temporarily less than a week. 
Transition from intravenous to subcutaneous administration 
SLE 
If a patient with SLE is being transitioned from Benlysta intravenous administration to subcutaneous 
administration, the first subcutaneous injection should be administered 1 to 4 weeks after the last intravenous 
dose (see section 5.2). 
Lupus nephritis 
If a patient with lupus nephritis is being transitioned from Benlysta intravenous administration to 
subcutaneous administration, the first dose of 200 mg subcutaneous injection should be administered 1 to 
2 weeks after the last intravenous dose. This transition should occur any time after the patient completes the 
first 2 intravenous doses (see section 5.2). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Data on patients ≥ 65 years are limited (see section 5.1). Benlysta should be used with caution in the elderly. 
Dose adjustment is not required (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Belimumab has been studied in a limited number of SLE patients with renal impairment. On the basis of the 
available information, dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild, moderate or severe renal 
impairment. Caution is however recommended in patients with severe renal impairment due to the lack of 
data (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No specific studies with Benlysta have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. Patients with 
hepatic impairment are unlikely to require dose adjustment (see section 5.2). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Benlysta subcutaneous administration in children and adolescents (< 18 years of 
age) have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
The pre-filled pen or pre-filled syringe should be used for subcutaneous injection only. The recommended 
injection sites are the abdomen or thigh. When injecting in the same region, patients should be advised to use 
a different injection site for each injection; injections should never be given into areas where the skin is 
tender, bruised, red, or hard. When a 400 mg dose is administered at the same site, it is recommended that 
the 2 individual 200 mg injections are administered at least 5 cm (approximately 2 inches) apart. 
Comprehensive instructions for subcutaneous administration of Benlysta in a pre-filled pen or pre-filled 
syringe are provided at the end of the package leaflet (see Step-by-step instructions). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Benlysta has not been studied in the following patient groups and is not recommended in: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe active central nervous system lupus 
HIV 
a history of, or current, hepatitis B or C 
hypogammaglobulinaemia (IgG < 400 mg/dL) or IgA deficiency (IgA < 10 mg/dL) 
a history of major organ transplant or hematopoietic stem cell/marrow transplant or renal 
transplant. 
Concomitant use with B cell targeted therapy 
Available data do not support the co-administration of rituximab with Benlysta in patients with SLE (see 
section 5.1). Caution should be exercised if Benlysta is co-administered with other B cell targeted therapy.  
Hypersensitivity  
Administration of subcutaneous or intravenous Benlysta may result in hypersensitivity reactions which can 
be severe, and fatal. In the event of a severe reaction, Benlysta administration must be interrupted and 
appropriate medical therapy administered (see section 4.2). The risk of hypersensitivity reactions is greatest 
with the first two doses; however, the risk should be considered for every administration. Patients with a 
history of multiple drug allergies or significant hypersensitivity may be at increased risk. Recurrence of 
clinically significant reactions after initial appropriate treatment of symptoms has also been observed (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.8).  
Patients should be advised that hypersensitivity reactions are possible, on the day of, or several days after 
administration, and be informed of potential signs and symptoms and the possibility of recurrence. Patients 
should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any of these symptoms. The 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
package leaflet should be available to the patient. Delayed-type, non-acute hypersensitivity reactions have 
also been observed and included symptoms such as rash, nausea, fatigue, myalgia, headache, and facial 
oedema. 
In intravenous clinical studies, serious infusion and hypersensitivity reactions included anaphylactic reaction, 
bradycardia, hypotension, angioedema, and dyspnoea. Please refer to the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for Benlysta powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (section 4.4). 
Infections 
The mechanism of action of belimumab could increase the risk for the development of infections, including 
opportunistic infections. In controlled clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections was similar across 
the Benlysta and placebo groups; however, fatal infections (e.g. pneumonia and sepsis) occurred more 
frequently in patients receiving Benlysta compared with placebo (see section 4.8). Pneumococcal vaccination 
should be considered before initiating Benlysta treatment. Benlysta should not be initiated in patients with 
active serious infections (including serious chronic infections). Physicians should exercise caution and 
carefully assess if the benefits are expected to outweigh the risks when considering the use of Benlysta in 
patients with a history of recurrent infection. Physicians should advise patients to contact their health care 
provider if they develop symptoms of an infection. Patients who develop an infection while undergoing 
treatment with Benlysta should be monitored closely and careful consideration given to interrupting 
immunosuppressant therapy including Benlysta until the infection is resolved. The risk of using Benlysta in 
patients with active or latent tuberculosis is unknown. 
Depression and suicidality 
In controlled clinical intravenous and subcutaneous studies, psychiatric disorders (depression, suicidal 
ideation and behaviour including suicides) have been reported more frequently in patients receiving Benlysta 
(see section 4.8). Physicians should assess the risk of depression and suicide considering the patient’s 
medical history and current psychiatric status before treatment with Benlysta and continue to monitor 
patients during treatment. Physicians should advise patients (and caregivers where appropriate) to contact 
their health care provider about new or worsening psychiatric symptoms. In patients who experience such 
symptoms, treatment discontinuation should be considered. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has been reported with Benlysta treatment for SLE. 
Physicians should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that patients may not notice (e.g., 
cognitive, neurological or psychiatric symptoms or signs). Patients should be monitored for any of these new 
or worsening symptoms or signs, and if such symptoms/signs occur, referral to a neurologist and appropriate 
diagnostic measures for PML should be considered as clinically indicated. If PML is suspected, 
immunosuppressant therapy, including Benlysta, must be suspended until PML has been excluded. If PML is 
confirmed, immunosuppressant therapy, including belimumab, must be discontinued. 
Immunisation 
Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days before, or concurrently with Benlysta, as clinical safety has 
not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving 
live vaccines to patients receiving Benlysta. 
Because of its mechanism of action, belimumab may interfere with the response to immunisations. However, 
in a small study evaluating the response to a 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine, overall immune responses to 
the different serotypes were similar in SLE patients receiving Benlysta compared with those receiving 
standard immunosuppressive treatment at the time of vaccination. There are insufficient data to draw 
conclusions regarding response to other vaccines. 
Limited data suggest that Benlysta does not significantly affect the ability to maintain a protective immune 
response to immunisations received prior to administration of Benlysta. In a substudy, a small group of 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients who had previously received either tetanus, pneumococcal or influenza vaccinations were found to 
maintain protective titres after treatment with Benlysta. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Immunomodulatory medicinal products, including Benlysta, may increase the risk of malignancy. Caution 
should be exercised when considering Benlysta therapy for patients with a history of malignancy or when 
considering continuing treatment in patients who develop malignancy. Patients with malignant neoplasm 
within the last 5 years have not been studied, with the exception of those with basal or squamous cell cancers 
of the skin, or cancer of the uterine cervix, that has been fully excised or adequately treated. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No in vivo interaction studies have been performed. The formation of some CYP450 enzymes is suppressed 
by increased levels of certain cytokines during chronic inflammation. It is not known if belimumab could be 
an indirect modulator of such cytokines. A risk for indirect reduction of CYP activity by belimumab cannot 
be excluded. On initiation or discontinuation of belimumab, therapeutic monitoring should be considered for 
patients being treated with CYP substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, where the dose is individually 
adjusted (e.g. warfarin). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during Benlysta treatment and for at least 
4 months after the last treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are a limited amount of data from the use of Benlysta in pregnant women. No formal studies have 
been conducted. Besides an expected pharmacological effect i.e. reduction of B cells, animal studies in 
monkeys do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3).  
Benlysta should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the 
foetus.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Benlysta is excreted in human milk or is absorbed systemically after ingestion. 
However, belimumab was detected in the milk from female monkeys administered 150 mg/kg every 
2 weeks. 
Because maternal antibodies (IgG) are excreted in breast milk, it is recommended that a decision should be 
made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue Benlysta therapy, taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of belimumab on human fertility. Effects on male and female fertility have 
not been formally evaluated in animal studies (see section 5.3). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. No detrimental 
effects on such activities are predicted from the pharmacology of belimumab. The clinical status of the 
subject and the adverse reaction profile of Benlysta should be borne in mind when considering the patient's 
ability to perform tasks that require judgement, motor or cognitive skills. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of belimumab in patients with SLE has been evaluated in three pre-registration placebo-controlled 
intravenous studies and one subsequent regional placebo-controlled intravenous study, one placebo-
controlled subcutaneous study, and two post-marketing placebo-controlled intravenous studies; the safety in 
patients with active lupus nephritis has been evaluated in one placebo-controlled intravenous study. 
The data presented in the table below reflect exposure in 674 patients with SLE from the three pre-
registration clinical studies and 470 patients in the subsequent placebo-controlled study administered 
Benlysta intravenously (10 mg/kg over a 1-hour period on Days 0, 14, 28, and then every 28 days for up to 
52 weeks), and 556 patients with SLE exposed to Benlysta subcutaneously (200 mg once weekly up to 
52 weeks). The safety data presented include data beyond Week 52 in some patients with SLE. The data 
reflect additional exposure in 224 patients with active lupus nephritis who received Benlysta intravenously 
(10 mg/kg for up to 104 weeks). Data from post-marketing reports are also included. 
The majority of patients were also receiving one or more of the following concomitant treatments for SLE: 
corticosteroids, immunomodulatory medicinal products, anti-malarials, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicinal products. 
Adverse reactions were reported in 84 % of Benlysta-treated patients and 87 % of placebo-treated patients. 
The most frequently reported adverse reaction (≥ 5 % of patients with SLE treated with Benlysta plus 
standard of care and at a rate ≥ 1 % greater than placebo) was nasopharyngitis. The proportion of patients 
who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions was 7 % for Benlysta-treated patients and 8 % for 
placebo-treated patients. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions (> 5 % of patients with active lupus nephritis treated with 
Benlysta plus standard of care) were upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, and herpes 
zoster. The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions was 12.9 % for 
Benlysta-treated patients and 12.9 % for placebo-treated patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA system organ class and by frequency. The frequency 
categories used are: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare     
 1/10 
 1/100 to < 1/10 
 1/1000 to < 1/100 
 1/10 000 to < 1/1000 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The 
frequency given is the highest seen with either formulation. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction(s) 
Infections and infestations1 
Very common 
Common 
Bacterial infections, e.g. bronchitis, 
urinary tract infection 
Gastroenteritis viral, pharyngitis, 
nasopharyngitis, viral upper 
respiratory tract infection 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Common 
Leucopenia 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Hypersensitivity reactions2 
Uncommon 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Rare 
Delayed-type, non-acute 
hypersensitivity reactions 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Depression 
Uncommon 
Suicidal behaviour, suicidal ideation 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Migraine 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Diarrhoea, nausea 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Injection site reactions3, urticaria, 
rash 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Angioedema 
Common 
Pain in extremity 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
Infusion or injection-related systemic 
reactions2, pyrexia 
1 See ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ and section 4.4 ‘Infections’ for further information. 
2 ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’ covers a group of terms, including anaphylaxis, and can manifest as a range of 
symptoms including hypotension, angioedema, urticaria or other rash, pruritus, and dyspnoea. ‘Infusion or 
injection-related systemic reactions’ covers a group of terms and can manifest as a range of symptoms 
including bradycardia, myalgia, headache, rash, urticaria, pyrexia, hypotension, hypertension, dizziness, and 
arthralgia. Due to overlap in signs and symptoms, it is not possible to distinguish between hypersensitivity 
reactions and infusion or injection-related systemic reactions in all cases. 
3 Applies to subcutaneous formulation only. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Data presented below are pooled from the three pre-registration intravenous clinical studies (10 mg/kg 
intravenous dose only) and the subcutaneous clinical study. ‘Infections’ and ‘Psychiatric disorders’ also 
include data from a post-marketing study. 
Infusion or injection-related systemic reactions and hypersensitivity: Infusion or injection-related systemic 
reactions and hypersensitivity were generally observed on the day of administration, but acute 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypersensitivity reactions may also occur several days after dosing. Patients with a history of multiple drug 
allergies or significant hypersensitivity reactions may be at increased risk. 
The incidence of infusion reactions and hypersensitivity reactions after intravenous administration occurring 
within 3 days of an infusion was 12 % in the group receiving Benlysta and 10 % in the group receiving 
placebo, with 1.2 % and 0.3 %, respectively, requiring permanent treatment discontinuation. 
The incidence of post-injection systemic reactions and hypersensitivity reactions occurring within 3 days of 
subcutaneous administration was 7 % in the group receiving Benlysta and 9 % in the group receiving 
placebo. Clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions associated with Benlysta administered 
subcutaneously and requiring permanent treatment discontinuation were reported in 0.2 % of patients 
receiving Benlysta and in no patients receiving placebo. 
Infections: The overall incidence of infections in intravenous and subcutaneous pre-registration SLE studies 
was 63 % in both groups receiving Benlysta or placebo. Infections occurring in at least 3 % of patients 
receiving Benlysta and at least 1 % more frequently than patients receiving placebo were viral upper 
respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, and urinary tract infection bacterial. Serious infections occurred in 5 % 
of patients in both groups receiving Benlysta or placebo; serious opportunistic infections accounted for 
0.4 % and 0 % of these, respectively. Infections leading to discontinuation of treatment occurred in 0.7 % of 
patients receiving Benlysta and 1.5 % of patients receiving placebo. Some infections were severe or fatal. 
In the lupus nephritis study, patients were receiving a background of standard therapy (see section 5.1) and 
the overall incidence of infections was 82 % in patients receiving Benlysta compared with 76 % in patients 
receiving placebo. Serious infections occurred in 13.8 % of patients receiving Benlysta and in 17.0 % of 
patients receiving placebo. Fatal infections occurred in 0.9 % (2/224) of patients receiving Benlysta and in 
0.9 % (2/224) of patients receiving placebo. 
In a randomised, double-blind, 52-week, post-marketing safety SLE study (BEL115467) which assessed 
mortality and specific adverse events in adults, serious infections occurred in 3.7 % of patients receiving 
Benlysta (10 mg/kg intravenously) vs. 4.1 % of patients receiving placebo. However, fatal infections (e.g. 
pneumonia and sepsis) occurred in 0.45 % (9/2002) of Benlysta-treated patients vs. 0.15 % (3/2001) of 
patients receiving placebo, while the incidence of all-cause mortality was 0.50 % (10/2002) vs. 0.40 % 
(8/2001), respectively. Most fatal infections were observed during the first 20 weeks of treatment with 
Benlysta. 
Psychiatric disorders: In the pre-registration intravenous SLE clinical studies, serious psychiatric events 
were reported in 1.2 % (8/674) of patients receiving Benlysta 10 mg/kg and 0.4 % (3/675) of patients 
receiving placebo. Serious depression was reported in 0.6 % (4/674) of patients receiving Benlysta 10 mg/kg 
and 0.3 % (2/675) of patients receiving placebo. There were two suicides in Benlysta-treated patients 
(including one receiving 1 mg/kg Benlysta). 
In a post-marketing SLE study, serious psychiatric events were reported in 1.0 % (20/2002) of patients 
receiving Benlysta and 0.3 % (6/2001) of patients receiving placebo. Serious depression was reported in 
0.3 % (7/2002) of patients receiving Benlysta and < 0.1 % (1/2001) of patients receiving placebo. The 
overall incidence of serious suicidal ideation or behaviour or self-injury without suicidal intent was 0.7 % 
(15/2002) in patients receiving Benlysta and 0.2 % (5/2001) in the placebo group. No suicide was reported in 
either group. 
The intravenous SLE studies above did not exclude patients with a history of psychiatric disorders. 
In the subcutaneous SLE clinical study, which excluded patients with a history of psychiatric disorders, 
serious psychiatric events were reported in 0.2 % (1/556) of patients receiving Benlysta and in no patients 
receiving placebo. There were no serious depression-related events or suicides reported in either group. 
Leucopenia: The incidence of leucopenia reported in patients with SLE as an adverse event was 3 % in the 
group receiving Benlysta and 2 % in the group receiving placebo. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site reactions: In the subcutaneous SLE study, the frequency of injection site reactions was 6.1 % 
(34/556) and 2.5 % (7/280) for patients receiving Benlysta and placebo, respectively. These injection site 
reactions (most commonly pain, erythema, hematoma, pruritus and induration) were mild to moderate in 
severity. The majority did not necessitate drug discontinuation. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
There is limited clinical experience with overdose of Benlysta. Adverse reactions reported in association with 
cases of overdose have been consistent with those expected for belimumab. 
Two doses up to 20 mg/kg administered 21 days apart by intravenous infusion have been given to humans 
with no increase in incidence or severity of adverse reactions compared with doses of 1, 4, or 10 mg/kg. 
In the case of inadvertent overdose, patients should be carefully observed and supportive care administered, 
as appropriate. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AA26  
Mechanism of action  
Belimumab is a human IgG1 monoclonal antibody specific for soluble human B Lymphocyte Stimulator 
protein (BLyS, also referred to as BAFF and TNFSF13B). Belimumab blocks the binding of soluble BLyS, a 
B cell survival factor, to its receptors on B cells. Belimumab does not bind B cells directly, but by binding 
BLyS, belimumab inhibits the survival of B cells, including autoreactive B cells, and reduces the 
differentiation of B cells into immunoglobulin-producing plasma cells.  
BLyS levels are elevated in patients with SLE and other autoimmune diseases. There is an association 
between plasma BLyS levels and SLE disease activity. The relative contribution of BLyS levels to the 
pathophysiology of SLE is not fully understood. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Median IgG levels at Week 52 were reduced by 11 % in patients with SLE receiving Benlysta compared 
with an increase of 0.7 % in patients receiving placebo. 
In patients with anti-dsDNA antibodies at baseline, median anti-dsDNA antibodies levels at Week 52 were 
reduced by 56 % in patients receiving Benlysta compared with 41 % in patients receiving placebo. In 
patients with anti-dsDNA antibodies at baseline, by Week 52, 18 % of patients treated with Benlysta had 
converted to anti-dsDNA negative compared with 15 % of the patients receiving placebo. 
In patients with SLE with low complement levels, normalization of C3 and C4 was observed by Week 52 in 
42 % and 53 % of patients receiving Benlysta and in 21 % and 20 % of patients receiving placebo, 
respectively.  
Benlysta significantly reduced circulating overall, transitional, naïve, and SLE B cells, as well as plasma 
cells at Week 52. Reductions in naïve and transitional B cells, as well as the SLE B cell subset were 
10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed as early as Week 8. Memory cells increased initially and slowly declined toward baseline levels by 
Week 52. 
The B cell and IgG response to long term treatment with intravenous Benlysta was assessed in an 
uncontrolled SLE extension study. After 7 and a half years of treatment (including the 72-week parent 
study), a substantial and sustained decrease in various B cell subsets was observed leading to 87 % median 
reduction in naïve B cells, 67 % in memory B cells, 99 % in activated B cells, and 92 % median reduction in 
plasma cells after more than 7 years of treatment. After about 7 years, a 28 % median reduction in IgG levels 
was observed, with 1.6 % of subjects experiencing a decrease in IgG levels to below 400 mg/dL. Over the 
course of the study, the reported incidence of AEs generally remained stable or declined.  
In patients with active lupus nephritis, following treatment with Benlysta (10 mg/kg intravenously) or 
placebo, there was an increase in serum IgG levels which was associated with decreased proteinuria. Relative 
to placebo, smaller increases in serum IgG levels were observed in the Benlysta group as expected with the 
known mechanism of belimumab. At Week 104, the median percent increase from baseline in IgG was 17 % 
for Benlysta and 37 % for placebo. Reductions in autoantibodies, increases in complement, and reductions in 
circulating total B cells and B-cell subsets observed were consistent with the SLE studies.  
Immunogenicity  
In the subcutaneous study where serum samples from more than 550 patients with SLE were tested, no 
anti-belimumab antibodies were detected during or after treatment with belimumab 200 mg subcutaneously. 
In the lupus nephritis study where 224 patients received Benlysta 10 mg/kg intravenously, no 
anti-belimumab antibodies were detected. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
SLE 
Subcutaneous injection 
The efficacy of Benlysta administered subcutaneously was evaluated in a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled 52-week Phase III study (HGS1006-C1115; BEL112341) in 836 adult patients with a 
clinical diagnosis of SLE according to the American College of Rheumatology classification criteria. 
Eligible patients had active SLE disease, defined as a SELENA-SLEDAI score ≥ 8 and positive anti-nuclear 
antibody (ANA or anti-dsDNA) test results (ANA titre ≥ 1:80 and/or a positive anti-dsDNA [≥ 30 units/mL]) 
at screening. Patients were on a stable SLE treatment regimen (standard of care) consisting of any of the 
following (alone or in combination): corticosteroids, anti-malarials, NSAIDs or other immunosuppressives. 
Patients were excluded from the study if they had severe active central nervous system lupus or severe active 
lupus nephritis. 
This study was conducted in the US, South America, Europe and Asia. Patient median age was 37 years 
(range: 18 to 77 years), and the majority (94 %) were female. Background medicinal products included 
corticosteroids (86 %; > 7.5 mg/day prednisone equivalent 60 %), immunosuppressives (46 %), and 
anti-malarials (69 %). Patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive belimumab 200 mg or placebo 
subcutaneously once weekly for 52 weeks. 
At baseline 62.2 % of patients had high disease activity (SELENA SLEDAI score ≥ 10), 88 % of patients 
had mucocutaneous, 78 % had musculoskeletal, 8 % had haematological, 12 % had renal, and 8 % had 
vascular organ involvement. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was a composite endpoint (SLE Responder Index) that defined response as 
meeting each of the following criteria at Week 52 compared with baseline: 
• 
• 
• 
 4-point reduction in the SELENA-SLEDAI score, and 
no new British Isles Lupus Assessment Group (BILAG) A organ domain score or 2 new BILAG 
B organ domain scores, and  
no worsening (< 0.30 point increase) in Physician’s Global Assessment score (PGA) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The SLE Responder Index measures improvement in SLE disease activity, without worsening in any organ 
system, or in the patient’s overall condition. 
Table 1. Response rate at Week 52 
Response1 
SLE responder index 
Observed difference vs. placebo 
Odds ratio (95 % CI) vs. placebo 
Components of SLE responder index 
Percent of patients with reduction in 
SELENA-SLEDAI  4 
Percent of patients with no worsening by BILAG 
index 
Percent of patients with no worsening by PGA 
Placebo2 
(n = 279) 
48.4 % 
49.1 % 
74.2 % 
72.8 % 
Benlysta2 
200 mg weekly 
(n = 554) 
61.4 % 
(p = 0.0006) 
12.98 % 
1.68 
(1.25, 2.25) 
62.3 % 
(p = 0.0005) 
80.9 % 
(p = 0.0305) 
81.2 % 
(p = 0.0061) 
1 Analyses excluded any subject missing a baseline assessment for any of the components (1 for placebo; 
2 for Benlysta). 
2 All patients received standard therapy. 
The differences between the treatment groups were apparent by Week 16 and sustained through Week 52 
(Figure 1). 
Figure 1. Proportion of SRI responders by visit 
)
%
(
s
r
e
d
n
o
p
s
e
R
Benlysta + Standard therapy (n = 554) 
Placebo + Standard therapy (n = 279) 
* P < 0.05 
Time (weeks) 
Flares in SLE were defined by the modified SELENA SLEDAI SLE Flare Index. The risk of first flare was 
reduced by 22 % during the 52 weeks of observation in the group receiving Benlysta compared with the 
group receiving placebo (hazard ratio = 0.78; p = 0.0061). The median time to the first flare among patients 
having a flare was delayed in patients receiving Benlysta compared with placebo (190 days vs. 141 days). 
Severe flares were observed in 10.6 % of patients in the group receiving Benlysta compared with 18.2 % of 
patients in the group receiving placebo over the 52 weeks of observation (observed treatment 
difference = -7.6 %). The risk of severe flares was reduced by 49 % during the 52 weeks of observation in 
the group receiving Benlysta compared with the group receiving placebo (hazard ratio = 0.51; p = 0.0004). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median time to the first severe flare among patients having a severe flare was delayed in patients 
receiving Benlysta compared with placebo (171 days vs. 118 days). 
The percentage of patients receiving greater than 7.5 mg/day prednisone (or equivalent) at baseline whose 
average corticosteroid dose was reduced by at least 25 % from baseline to a dose equivalent to prednisone 
≤ 7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 52, was 18.2 % in the group receiving Benlysta and 11.9 % in the 
group receiving placebo (p = 0.0732). 
Benlysta demonstrated improvement in fatigue compared with placebo measured by the FACIT-Fatigue 
Scale. The adjusted mean change of score at Week 52 from baseline is significantly greater with Benlysta 
compared to placebo (4.4 vs. 2.7, p = 0.0130). 
Subgroup analysis of the primary endpoint demonstrated that the greatest benefit was observed in patients 
with higher disease activity at baseline including patients with SELENA SLEDAI scores ≥ 10 or patients 
requiring steroids to control their disease or patients with low complement levels. 
An additional, previously identified serologically active group, those patients with low complement and 
positive anti-dsDNA at baseline, also demonstrated a greater relative response, see Table 2 for results of this 
example of a higher disease activity group. 
Table 2. Patients with low complement and positive anti-dsDNA at baseline 
Subgroup 
Anti-dsDNA positive AND low complement 
Placebo 
(n = 108) 
Benlysta 
200 mg weekly 
(n = 246) 
SRI response rate at Week 521 (%) 
47.2 
64.6 (p = 0.0014) 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
17.41 
Severe flares over 52 weeks: 
(n = 108) 
(n = 248) 
Patients experiencing a severe flare (%) 
31.5 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
Time to severe flare [Hazard ratio (95 % CI)] 
14.1 
17.4 
0.38 (0.24, 0.61) 
(p < 0.0001) 
(n = 164) 
20.7 (p = 0.0844) 
9.3 
(n = 248) 
(n = 70) 
11.4 
(n = 108) 
2.4 
4.6 (p = 0.0324) 
2.1 
Prednisone reduction by ≥ 25 % from baseline to 
≤ 7.5 mg/day during weeks 24 through 522 (%) 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
FACIT-fatigue score improvement from baseline at 
Week 52 (mean): 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (median 
difference) 
1 Analysis of SRI response rate at Week 52 excluded any subject missing a baseline assessment (2 for 
Benlysta). 
2 Among patients with baseline prednisone dose > 7.5 mg/day. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy and safety of Benlysta in combination with a single cycle of rituximab have been studied in a 
Phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 104-week study including 292 patients (BLISS-
BELIEVE). The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects with a state of disease control defined as a 
SLEDAI-2K score ≤ 2, achieved without immunosuppressants and with corticosteroids at a prednisone 
equivalent dose of ≤ 5 mg/day at Week 52. This was achieved in 19.4 % (n = 28/144) of the patients treated 
with Benlysta in combination with rituximab and in 16.7 % (n = 12/72) of the patients treated with Benlysta 
in combination with placebo (odds ratio 1.27; 95 % CI: 0.60, 2.71; p = 0.5342). A higher frequency of 
adverse events (91.7 % vs. 87.5 %), serious adverse events (22.2 % vs. 13.9 %) and serious infections (9.0 % 
vs. 2.8 %) were observed in patients treated with Benlysta in combination with rituximab as compared to 
Benlysta in combination with placebo. 
Lupus nephritis 
Subcutaneous injection 
The efficacy and safety of Benlysta 200 mg administered subcutaneously to patients with active lupus 
nephritis is based on data from administration of Benlysta 10 mg/kg intravenously and pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation (see section 5.2). 
In the subcutaneous SLE study, described above, patients who had severe active lupus nephritis were 
excluded; however, 12 % of patients had renal organ domain involvement at baseline (based on SELENA 
SLEDAI assessment). The following study in active lupus nephritis has been conducted. 
Intravenous infusion 
The efficacy and safety of Benlysta 10 mg/kg administered intravenously over a 1-hour period on Days 0, 
14, 28, and then every 28 days, were evaluated in a 104-week randomised (1:1), double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, Phase III study (BEL114054) in 448 patients with active lupus nephritis. The patients 
had a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to ACR classification criteria, biopsy proven lupus nephritis Class 
III, IV, and/or V and had active renal disease at screening requiring standard therapy. Standard therapy 
included corticosteroids, 0 to 3 intravenous administrations of methylprednisolone (500 to1000 mg per 
administration), followed by oral prednisone 0.5 to1 mg/kg/day with a total daily dose ≤60 mg/day and 
tapered to ≤ 10 mg/day by Week 24, with: 
• 
mycophenolate mofetil 1 to 3 g/day orally or mycophenolate sodium 720 to 2160 mg/day orally for 
induction and maintenance, or 
cyclophosphamide 500 mg intravenously every 2 weeks for 6 infusions for induction followed by 
azathioprine orally at a target dose of 2 mg/kg/day for maintenance. 
• 
This study was conducted in Asia, North America, South America, and Europe. Patient median age was 
31 years (range: 18 to 77 years); the majority (88 %) were female. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was Primary Efficacy Renal Response (PERR) at Week 104 defined as a 
response at Week 100 confirmed by a repeat measurement at Week 104 of the following parameters: urinary 
protein:creatinine ratio (uPCR) ≤ 700 mg/g (79.5 mg/mmol) and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) 
≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 or no decrease in eGFR of > 20 % from pre-flare value. 
The major secondary endpoints included: 
• 
Complete Renal Response (CRR) defined as a response at Week 100 confirmed by a repeat 
measurement at Week 104 of the following parameters: uPCR < 500 mg/g (56.8 mg/mmol) and eGFR 
≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 or no decrease in eGFR of > 10 % from pre-flare value. 
PERR at Week 52. 
Time to renal-related event or death (renal-related event defined as first event of end-stage renal 
disease, doubling of serum creatinine, renal worsening [defined as increased proteinuria, and/or 
impaired renal function], or receipt of renal disease-related prohibited therapy). 
• 
• 
For PERR and CRR endpoints, steroid treatment had to be reduced to ≤ 10 mg/day from Week 24 to be 
considered a responder. For these endpoints, patients who discontinued treatment early, received prohibited 
medication, or withdrew from the study early were considered non-responders. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of patients achieving PERR at Week 104 was significantly higher in patients receiving 
Benlysta compared with placebo. The major secondary endpoints also showed significant improvement with 
Benlysta compared with placebo (Table 3). 
Table 3. Efficacy results in adult patients with lupus nephritis 
Efficacy endpoint 
Placebo 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
Observed 
difference 
vs. placebo 
(n = 223) 
(n = 223) 
32.3 % 
43.0 % 
10.8 % 
33.6 % 
44.4 % 
10.8 % 
50.2 % 
57.4 % 
7.2 % 
74.4 % 
83.0 % 
8.5 % 
19.7 % 
30.0 % 
10.3 % 
Odds/Hazard 
ratio vs. 
placebo 
(95 % CI) 
OR 1.55 
(1.04, 2.32) 
P-
value 
0.0311 
OR 1.54 
(1.04, 2.29) 
0.0320 
OR 1.32 
(0.90, 1.94) 
OR 1.65 
(1.03, 2.63) 
OR 1.74 
(1.11, 2.74) 
0.1599 
0.0364 
0.0167 
28.7 % 
39.5 % 
10.8 % 
OR 1.58 
(1.05, 2.38) 
0.0268 
39.9 % 
46.6 % 
6.7 % 
74.4 % 
83.0 % 
8.5 % 
35.4 % 
46.6 % 
11.2 % 
OR 1.33 
(0.90, 1.96) 
OR 1.65 
(1.03, 2.63) 
OR 1.59 
(1.06, 2.38) 
0.1539 
0.0364 
0.0245 
28.3 % 
15.7 % 
- 
PERR at Week 1041 
Responders 
Components of PERR 
Urine protein:creatinine 
ratio ≤ 700 mg/g 
(79.5 mg/mmol) 
eGFR≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 
or no decrease in eGFR 
from pre-flare value of 
> 20 % 
Not treatment failure³ 
CRR at Week 1041 
Responders 
Components of CRR 
Urine protein:creatinine 
ratio < 500 mg/g 
(56.8 mg/mmol) 
eGFR≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 
or no decrease in eGFR 
from pre-flare value of 
> 10 % 
Not treatment failure³ 
PERR at Week 521 
Responders 
Time to renal-related event 
or death1 
Percentage of patients with 
event2 
Time to event [Hazard ratio 
(95 % CI)] 
HR 0.51 
(0.34, 0.77) 
0.0014 
1  PERR at Week 104 was the primary efficacy analysis; CRR at Week 104, PERR at Week 52 and time to 
- 
renal-related event or death were included in the pre-specified testing hierarchy. 
2  When excluding deaths from the analysis (1 for Benlysta; 2 for placebo), the percentage of patients with a 
renal-related event was 15.2 % for Benlysta compared with 27.4 % for placebo (HR = 0.51; 95 % CI: 0.34, 
0.78). 
³ Treatment failure: Patients who took protocol-prohibited medication. 
A numerically greater percentage of patients receiving Benlysta achieved PERR beginning at Week 24 
compared with placebo, and this treatment difference was maintained through to Week 104. Beginning at 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 12, a numerically greater percentage of patients receiving Benlysta achieved CRR compared with 
placebo and the numerical difference was maintained through to Week 104 (Figure 2). 
Figure 2. Response rates in adults with lupus nephritis by visit 
Primary Efficacy Renal Response (PERR) 
E
S
-
/
+
)
%
(
s
r
e
d
n
o
p
s
e
R
E
S
-
/
+
)
%
(
s
r
e
d
n
o
p
s
e
R
Benlysta + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Placebo + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Time (weeks) 
Complete Renal Response (CRR) 
Benlysta + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Placebo + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Time (weeks) 
In descriptive subgroup analyses, key efficacy endpoints (PERR and CRR) were examined by induction 
regimen (mycophenolate or cyclophosphamide) and biopsy class (Class III or IV, Class III + V or Class IV + 
V, or Class V) (Figure 3). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Odds ratio of PERR and CRR at Week 104 across subgroups 
Subgroup 
Benlysta (n) versus Placebo (n) 
Induction regimen 
Mycophenolate (164 vs. 164) 
Cyclophosphamide (59 vs. 59) 
Favours Placebo 
Favours Benlysta 
Biopsy class 
Class III or Class IV (126 vs. 132) 
Class III + V or Class IV + V (61 vs. 55) 
Class V (36 vs. 36) 
Response rate 
Placebo       Benlysta 
(%) 
(%) 
Odds ratio 
(95 % CI) 
34 
20 
27 
19 
32 
19 
27 
15 
42 
31 
46 
34 
34 
19 
48 
31 
38 
26 
36 
33 
1.6 (1.0, 2.5) 
2.0 (1.2, 3.4) 
1.5 (0.7, 3.5) 
1.1 (0.4, 2.8) 
1.8 (1.1, 3.1) 
1.8 (1.0, 3.2) 
1.8 (0.8, 4.0) 
2.8 (1.0, 7.7) 
0.6 (0.2, 1.9) 
0.8 (0.3, 2.6) 
0.1
0.2 
1 
0.5 
Odds ratio 
2 
4 
8 
Primary Efficacy Renal Response (PERR) 
Complete Renal Response (CRR) 
Age and race 
There were no observed differences in efficacy or safety in SLE patients ≥ 65 years who received Benlysta 
intravenously or subcutaneously compared to the overall population in placebo-controlled studies; however, 
the number of patients aged ≥ 65 years (62 patients for efficacy and 219 for safety) is not sufficient to 
determine whether they respond differently to younger patients. 
There were too few black patients enrolled in the placebo-controlled studies with subcutaneous Benlysta to 
draw meaningful conclusions about the effects of race on clinical outcomes. 
The safety and efficacy of Benlysta administered intravenously have been studied in black patients. The 
currently available data are described in the Summary of Product Characteristics of Benlysta 120 mg and 
400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with Benlysta 
subcutaneous administration in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in SLE (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
The subcutaneous pharmacokinetic parameters below are based on population parameter estimates from 
661 subjects, comprised of 554 SLE patients and 107 healthy subjects, who received Benlysta 
subcutaneously. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption  
Benlysta in pre-filled pen or pre-filled syringe is administered by subcutaneous injection.  
Following subcutaneous administration, the bioavailability of belimumab was approximately 74 %. 
Steady-state exposure was reached after approximately 11 weeks of subcutaneous administration. The 
maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of belimumab at steady state was 108 µg/mL. 
Distribution  
Belimumab was distributed to tissues with steady-state volume (Vss) of distribution of approximately 
5 litres.  
Biotransformation  
Belimumab is a protein for which the expected metabolic pathway is degradation to small peptides and 
individual amino acids by widely distributed proteolytic enzymes. Classical biotransformation studies have 
not been conducted. 
Elimination  
Following subcutaneous administration, belimumab had a terminal half-life of 18.3 days. The systemic 
clearance was 204 mL/day. 
Lupus nephritis study  
A population pharmacokinetic analysis was conducted in 224 adult patients with lupus nephritis who 
received Benlysta 10 mg/kg intravenously (Days 0, 14, 28, and then every 28 days up to 104 weeks). In 
patients with lupus nephritis, due to renal disease activity, belimumab clearance was initially higher than 
observed in SLE studies; however, after 24 weeks of treatment and throughout the remainder of the study, 
belimumab clearance and exposure were similar to that observed in adult patients with SLE who received 
belimumab 10 mg/kg intravenously.  
Based on population pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation, the steady-state average concentrations of 
subcutaneous administration of belimumab 200 mg once weekly in adults with lupus nephritis are predicted 
to be similar to those observed in adults with lupus nephritis receiving belimumab 10 mg/kg intravenously 
every 4 weeks.  
Special Patient Populations 
Paediatric population: No pharmacokinetic data are available for subcutaneous administration of Benlysta in 
paediatric patients. 
Elderly: Benlysta has been studied in a limited number of elderly patients. Age did not affect belimumab 
exposure in the subcutaneous population pharmacokinetic analysis. However, given the small number of 
subjects ≥ 65, an effect of age cannot be ruled out conclusively. 
Renal impairment: No specific studies have been conducted to examine the effects of renal impairment on 
the pharmacokinetics of belimumab. During clinical development, Benlysta was studied in a limited number 
of SLE patients with mild (creatinine clearance [CrCl]  60 and < 90 mL/min), moderate (CrCl  30 and 
< 60 mL/min), or severe (CrCl  15 and < 30 mL/min) renal impairment: 121 patients with mild renal 
impairment and 30 patients with moderate renal impairment received Benlysta subcutaneously; 770 patients 
with mild renal impairment, 261 patients with moderate renal impairment and 14 patients with severe renal 
impairment received Benlysta intravenously. 
No clinically significant reduction in systemic clearance as a result of renal impairment was observed. 
Therefore, no dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment: No specific studies have been conducted to examine the effects of hepatic impairment 
on the pharmacokinetics of belimumab. IgG1 molecules such as belimumab are catabolised by widely 
distributed proteolytic enzymes, which are not restricted to hepatic tissue and changes in hepatic function are 
unlikely to have any effect on the elimination of belimumab.  
Body weight/Body mass index (BMI)  
The effects of body weight and BMI on belimumab exposure after subcutaneous administration were not 
considered clinically meaningful. There was no significant impact on efficacy and safety based on weight. 
Therefore, no dose adjustment is recommended.  
Transitioning from intravenous to subcutaneous administration 
SLE 
Patients with SLE transitioning from 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks to 200 mg subcutaneously 
weekly using a 1 to 4 week switching interval had pre-dose belimumab serum concentrations at their first 
subcutaneous dose close to their eventual subcutaneous steady-state trough concentration (see section 4.2). 
Based on simulations with population PK parameters the steady-state average belimumab concentrations for 
200 mg subcutaneous every week were similar to 10 mg/kg intravenous every 4 weeks. 
Lupus nephritis 
One to 2 weeks after completing the first 2 intravenous doses, patients with lupus nephritis transitioning from 
10 mg/kg intravenously to 200 mg subcutaneously weekly, are predicted to have average belimumab serum 
concentrations similar to patients dosed with 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks based on population PK 
simulations (see section 4.2). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of repeated dose toxicity and toxicity 
to reproduction. 
Intravenous and subcutaneous administration to monkeys resulted in the expected reduction in the number of 
peripheral and lymphoid tissue B cell counts with no associated toxicological findings. 
Reproductive studies have been performed in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys receiving belimumab 
150 mg/kg by intravenous infusion (approximately 9 times the anticipated maximum human clinical 
exposure) every 2 weeks for up to 21 weeks, and belimumab treatment was not associated with direct or 
indirect harmful effects with respect to maternal toxicity, developmental toxicity, or teratogenicity.  
Treatment-related findings were limited to the expected reversible reduction of B cells in both dams and 
infants and reversible reduction of IgM in infant monkeys. B cell numbers recovered after the cessation of 
belimumab treatment by about 1 year post-partum in adult monkeys and by 3 months of life in infant 
monkeys; IgM levels in infants exposed to belimumab in utero recovered by 6 months of age. 
Effects on male and female fertility in monkeys were assessed in the 6-month repeat dose toxicology studies 
of belimumab at doses up to and including 50 mg/kg. No treatment-related changes were noted in the male 
and female reproductive organs of sexually mature animals. An informal assessment of menstrual cycling in 
females demonstrated no belimumab-related changes. 
As belimumab is a monoclonal antibody no genotoxicity studies have been conducted. No carcinogenicity 
studies or fertility studies (male or female) have been performed. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Arginine hydrochloride 
Histidine 
Histidine monohydrochloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
None known. 
6.3  Shelf life  
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2 C to 8 C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
A single Benlysta pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen can be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25 °C for a period of up to 12 hours. The syringe or pen must be protected from light, and discarded if not 
used within the 12 hour period. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Pre-filled pen 
1 mL solution in a type 1 glass syringe with a fixed needle (stainless steel) in a pre-filled pen. 
Available in packs of 1 or 4 pre-filled pens and multipack containing 12 single-dose pre-filled pens (3 packs 
of 4 pre-filled pens). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Pre-filled syringe 
1 mL solution in a type 1 glass syringe with a fixed needle (stainless steel) and needle cap. 
Available in pack of 1 pre-filled syringe and pack of 4 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Comprehensive  instructions  for  subcutaneous  administration  of  Benlysta  in  a  pre-filled  pen  or  pre-filled 
syringe are provided at the end of the package leaflet (see Step-by-step instructions). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk  
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/003 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/11/700/004 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/11/700/005 12 (3x4) pre-filled pens (multipack) 
EU/1/11/700/006 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/11/700/007 4 pre-filled syringes 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 13 July 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 18 February 2016 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See 
section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Benlysta 120 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Benlysta 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Benlysta 120 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Each vial contains 120 mg of belimumab. After reconstitution, the solution contains 80 mg belimumab per 
mL. 
Benlysta 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Each vial contains 400 mg of belimumab. After reconstitution, the solution contains 80 mg belimumab per 
mL. 
Belimumab is a human, IgG1λ monoclonal antibody, produced in a mammalian cell line (NS0) by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
White to off-white powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Benlysta is indicated as add-on therapy in patients aged 5 years and older with active, autoantibody-positive 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease activity (e.g., positive anti-dsDNA and 
low complement) despite standard therapy (see section 5.1). 
Benlysta is indicated in combination with background immunosuppressive therapies for the treatment of 
adult patients with active lupus nephritis (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Benlysta treatment should be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of SLE. Benlysta infusions should be administered by a qualified healthcare professional 
trained to give infusion therapy. 
Administration of Benlysta may result in severe or life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions and infusion 
reactions. Patients have been reported to develop symptoms of acute hypersensitivity several hours after the 
infusion has been administered. Recurrence of clinically significant reactions after initial appropriate 
treatment of symptoms has also been observed (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Therefore, Benlysta should be 
administered in an environment where resources for managing such reactions are immediately available. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should remain under clinical supervision for a prolonged period of time (for several hours), 
following at least the first 2 infusions, taking into account the possibility of a late onset reaction. 
Patients treated with Benlysta should be made aware of the potential risk of severe or life-threatening 
hypersensitivity and the potential for delayed onset or recurrence of symptoms. The package leaflet should 
be provided to the patient each time Benlysta is administered (see section 4.4). 
Posology 
Premedication including an antihistamine, with or without an antipyretic, may be administered before the 
infusion of Benlysta (see section 4.4). 
In patients with SLE or active lupus nephritis, the recommended dose regimen is 10 mg/kg Benlysta on 
Days 0, 14 and 28, and at 4-week intervals thereafter. The patient’s condition should be evaluated 
continuously. 
In patients with SLE, discontinuation of treatment with Benlysta should be considered if there is no 
improvement in disease control after 6 months of treatment. 
In patients with active lupus nephritis, Benlysta should be used in combination with corticosteroids and 
mycophenolate or cyclophosphamide for induction, or mycophenolate or azathioprine for maintenance. 
Transition from intravenous to subcutaneous administration 
SLE 
If a patient with SLE is being transitioned from Benlysta intravenous administration to subcutaneous 
administration, the first subcutaneous injection should be administered 1 to 4 weeks after the last intravenous 
dose (see section 5.2). 
Lupus nephritis 
If a patient with lupus nephritis is being transitioned from Benlysta intravenous administration to 
subcutaneous administration, the first dose of 200 mg subcutaneous injection should be administered 1 to 
2 weeks after the last intravenous dose. This transition should occur any time after the patient completes the 
first 2 intravenous doses (see section 5.2). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Data on patients ≥ 65 years are limited (see section 5.1). Benlysta should be used with caution in the elderly. 
Dose adjustment is not required (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Belimumab has been studied in a limited number of SLE patients with renal impairment. 
On the basis of the available information, dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild, moderate or 
severe renal impairment. Caution is however recommended in patients with severe renal impairment due to 
the lack of data (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No specific studies with Benlysta have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. Patients with 
hepatic impairment are unlikely to require dose adjustment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
SLE 
The recommended dose regimen for children aged 5 years and older is 10 mg/kg Benlysta on Days 0, 14 and 
28, and at 4-week intervals thereafter. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of Benlysta in children aged below 5 years have not been established. No data are 
available. 
Lupus nephritis 
The safety and efficacy of Benlysta in children and adolescents aged below 18 years with severe active lupus 
nephritis have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
Benlysta is administered intravenously by infusion, and must be reconstituted and diluted before 
administration. For instructions on reconstitution, dilution, and storage of the medicinal product before 
administration, see section 6.6.  
Benlysta should be infused over a 1-hour period.  
Benlysta must not be administered as an intravenous bolus.  
The infusion rate may be slowed or interrupted if the patient develops an infusion reaction. The infusion 
must be discontinued immediately if the patient experiences a potentially life-threatening adverse reaction 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Benlysta has not been studied in the following adult and paediatric patient groups, and is not recommended 
in: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe active central nervous system lupus (see section 5.1) 
HIV 
a history of, or current, hepatitis B or C 
hypogammaglobulinaemia (IgG < 400 mg/dL) or IgA deficiency (IgA < 10 mg/dL) 
a history of major organ transplant or hematopoietic stem cell /marrow transplant or renal 
transplant. 
Concomitant use with B cell targeted therapy 
Available data do not support the co-administration of rituximab with Benlysta in patients with SLE (see 
section 5.1). Caution should be exercised if Benlysta is co-administered with other B cell targeted therapy.  
Infusion reactions and hypersensitivity  
Administration of Benlysta may result in hypersensitivity reactions and infusion reactions which can be 
severe, and fatal. In the event of a severe reaction, Benlysta administration must be interrupted and 
appropriate medical therapy administered (see section 4.2). The risk of hypersensitivity reactions is greatest 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with the first two infusions; however the risk should be considered for every infusion administered. Patients 
with a history of multiple drug allergies or significant hypersensitivity may be at increased risk. 
Premedication including an antihistamine, with or without an antipyretic, may be administered before the 
infusion of Benlysta. There is insufficient knowledge to determine whether premedication could diminish the 
frequency or severity of infusion reactions. 
In clinical studies, serious infusion and hypersensitivity reactions affected approximately 0.9 % of adult 
patients, and included anaphylactic reaction, bradycardia, hypotension, angioedema, and dyspnoea. Infusion 
reactions occurred more frequently during the first two infusions and tended to decrease with subsequent 
infusions (see section 4.8). Patients have been reported to develop symptoms of acute hypersensitivity 
several hours after the infusion has been administered. Recurrence of clinically significant reactions after 
initial appropriate treatment of symptoms has also been observed (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). Therefore, 
Benlysta should be administered in an environment where resources for managing such reactions are 
immediately available. Patients should remain under clinical supervision for a prolonged period of time (for 
several hours), following at least the first 2 infusions, taking into account the possibility of a late onset 
reaction. Patients should be advised that hypersensitivity reactions are possible, on the day of, or several days 
after infusion, and be informed of potential signs and symptoms and the possibility of recurrence. Patients 
should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any of these symptoms. The 
package leaflet should be provided to the patient each time Benlysta is administered (see section 4.2). 
Delayed-type, non-acute hypersensitivity reactions have also been observed and included symptoms such as 
rash, nausea, fatigue, myalgia, headache, and facial oedema. 
Infections 
The mechanism of action of belimumab could increase the risk for the development of infections in adults 
and children with lupus, including opportunistic infections, and younger children may be at increased risk. In 
controlled clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections was similar across the Benlysta and placebo 
groups; however, fatal infections (e.g. pneumonia and sepsis) occurred more frequently in patients receiving 
Benlysta compared with placebo (see section 4.8). Pneumococcal vaccination should be considered before 
initiating Benlysta treatment. Benlysta should not be initiated in patients with active serious infections 
(including serious chronic infections). Physicians should exercise caution and carefully assess if the benefits 
are expected to outweigh the risks when considering the use of Benlysta in patients with a history of 
recurrent infection. Physicians should advise patients to contact their health care provider if they develop 
symptoms of an infection. Patients who develop an infection while undergoing treatment with Benlysta 
should be monitored closely and careful consideration given to interrupting immunosuppressant therapy 
including Benlysta until the infection is resolved. The risk of using Benlysta in patients with active or latent 
tuberculosis is unknown. 
Depression and suicidality 
In controlled clinical intravenous and subcutaneous studies, psychiatric disorders (depression, suicidal 
ideation and behaviour including suicides) have been reported more frequently in patients receiving Benlysta 
(see section 4.8). Physicians should assess the risk of depression and suicide considering the patient’s 
medical history and current psychiatric status before treatment with Benlysta and continue to monitor 
patients during treatment. Physicians should advise patients (and caregivers where appropriate) to contact 
their health care provider about new or worsening psychiatric symptoms. In patients who experience such 
symptoms, treatment discontinuation should be considered. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy  
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has been reported with Benlysta treatment for SLE. 
Physicians should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that patients may not notice (e.g., 
cognitive, neurological or psychiatric symptoms or signs). Patients should be monitored for any of these new 
or worsening symptoms or signs, and if such symptoms/signs occur, referral to a neurologist and appropriate 
diagnostic measures for PML should be considered as clinically indicated. If PML is suspected, 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immunosuppressant therapy, including Benlysta, must be suspended until PML has been excluded. If PML is 
confirmed, immunosuppressant therapy, including belimumab, must be discontinued. 
Immunisation 
Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days before, or concurrently with Benlysta, as clinical safety has 
not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving 
live vaccines to patients receiving Benlysta. 
Because of its mechanism of action, belimumab may interfere with the response to immunisations. However, 
in a small study evaluating the response to a 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine, overall immune responses to 
the different serotypes were similar in SLE patients receiving Benlysta compared with those receiving 
standard immunosuppressive treatment at the time of vaccination. There are insufficient data to draw 
conclusions regarding response to other vaccines. 
Limited data suggest that Benlysta does not significantly affect the ability to maintain a protective immune 
response to immunisations received prior to administration of Benlysta. In a substudy, a small group of 
patients who had previously received either tetanus, pneumococcal or influenza vaccinations were found to 
maintain protective titres after treatment with Benlysta. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Immunomodulatory medicinal products, including Benlysta, may increase the risk of malignancy. Caution 
should be exercised when considering Benlysta therapy for patients with a history of malignancy or when 
considering continuing treatment in patients who develop malignancy. Patients with malignant neoplasm 
within the last 5 years have not been studied, with the exception of those with basal or squamous cell cancers 
of the skin, or cancer of the uterine cervix, that has been fully excised or adequately treated. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No in vivo interaction studies have been performed. The formation of some CYP450 enzymes is suppressed 
by increased levels of certain cytokines during chronic inflammation. It is not known if belimumab could be 
an indirect modulator of such cytokines. A risk for indirect reduction of CYP activity by belimumab cannot 
be excluded. On initiation or discontinuation of belimumab, therapeutic monitoring should be considered for 
patients being treated with CYP substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, where the dose is individually 
adjusted (e.g. warfarin). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during Benlysta treatment and for at least 
4 months after the last treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are a limited amount of data from the use of Benlysta in pregnant women. No formal studies have 
been conducted. Besides an expected pharmacological effect i.e. reduction of B cells, animal studies in 
monkeys do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3). 
Benlysta should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the 
foetus. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Benlysta is excreted in human milk or is absorbed systemically after ingestion. 
However, belimumab was detected in the milk from female monkeys administered 150 mg/kg every 
2 weeks. 
Because maternal antibodies (IgG) are excreted in breast milk, it is recommended that a decision should be 
made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue Benlysta therapy, taking into account the 
benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of belimumab on human fertility. Effects on male and female fertility have 
not been formally evaluated in animal studies (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. No detrimental 
effects on such activities are predicted from the pharmacology of belimumab. The clinical status of the 
subject and the adverse reaction profile of Benlysta should be borne in mind when considering the patient's 
ability to perform tasks that require judgement, motor or cognitive skills. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile in adults 
The safety of belimumab in patients with SLE has been evaluated in three pre-registration placebo-controlled 
intravenous studies and one subsequent regional placebo-controlled intravenous study, one 
placebo-controlled subcutaneous study, and two post-marketing placebo-controlled intravenous studies; the 
safety in patients with active lupus nephritis has been evaluated in one placebo-controlled intravenous study. 
The data presented in the table below reflect exposure in 674 patients from the three pre-registration clinical 
studies and 470 patients in the subsequent placebo-controlled study with SLE administered Benlysta 
intravenously (10 mg/kg over a 1-hour period on Days 0, 14, 28, and then every 28 days for up to 52 weeks), 
and 556 patients with SLE exposed to Benlysta subcutaneously (200 mg once weekly up to 52 weeks). The 
safety data presented include data beyond Week 52 in some patients with SLE. The data reflect additional 
exposure in 224 patients with active lupus nephritis who received Benlysta intravenously (10 mg/kg for up to 
104 weeks). Data from post-marketing reports are also included. 
The majority of patients were also receiving one or more of the following concomitant treatments for SLE: 
corticosteroids, immunomodulatory medicinal products, anti-malarials, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicinal products. 
Adverse reactions were reported in 84 % of Benlysta-treated patients and 87 % of placebo-treated patients. 
The most frequently reported adverse reaction (≥ 5 % of patients with SLE treated with Benlysta plus 
standard of care and at a rate ≥ 1 % greater than placebo) was nasopharyngitis. The proportion of patients 
who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions was 7 % for Benlysta-treated patients and 8 % for 
placebo-treated patients. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions (> 5 % of patients with active lupus nephritis treated with 
Benlysta plus standard of care) were upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, and herpes 
zoster. The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions was 12.9 % for 
Benlysta-treated patients and 12.9 % for placebo-treated patients. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA system organ class and by frequency. The frequency 
categories used are: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare     
≥ 1/10 
 1/100 to < 1/10 
 1/1000 to < 1/100 
≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1000 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The 
frequency given is the highest seen with either formulation. 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction(s) 
Infections and infestations1 
Very common 
Common 
Bacterial infections, e.g. bronchitis, 
urinary tract infection 
Gastroenteritis viral, pharyngitis, 
nasopharyngitis, viral upper 
respiratory tract infection 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Common 
Leucopenia 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Hypersensitivity reactions2 
Uncommon 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Rare 
Delayed-type, non-acute 
hypersensitivity reactions 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Depression 
Uncommon 
Suicidal behaviour, suicidal ideation 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Migraine 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Diarrhoea, nausea 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Injection site reactions3, urticaria, 
rash 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Angioedema 
Common 
Pain in extremity 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
Infusion or injection-related systemic 
reactions2, pyrexia 
1 See ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ and section 4.4 ‘Infections’ for further information. 
2 ‘Hypersensitivity reactions’ covers a group of terms, including anaphylaxis, and can manifest as a range of 
symptoms including hypotension, angioedema, urticaria or other rash, pruritus, and dyspnoea. ‘Infusion or 
injection-related systemic reactions’ covers a group of terms and can manifest as a range of symptoms 
including bradycardia, myalgia, headache, rash, urticaria, pyrexia, hypotension, hypertension, dizziness, and 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arthralgia. Due to overlap in signs and symptoms, it is not possible to distinguish between hypersensitivity 
reactions and infusion or injection-related systemic reactions in all cases. 
3 Applies to subcutaneous formulation only. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Data presented below are pooled from the three pre-registration intravenous clinical studies (10 mg/kg 
intravenous dose only) and the subcutaneous clinical study. ‘Infections’ and ‘Psychiatric disorders’ also 
include data from a post-marketing study. 
Infusion or injection-related systemic reactions and hypersensitivity: Infusion or injection-related systemic 
reactions and hypersensitivity were generally observed on the day of administration, but acute 
hypersensitivity reactions may also occur several days after dosing. Patients with a history of multiple drug 
allergies or significant hypersensitivity reactions may be at increased risk. 
The incidence of infusion reactions and hypersensitivity reactions after intravenous administration occurring 
within 3 days of an infusion was 12 % in the group receiving Benlysta and 10 % in the group receiving 
placebo, with 1.2 % and 0.3 %, respectively, requiring permanent treatment discontinuation. 
Infections: The overall incidence of infections in intravenous and subcutaneous pre-registration SLE studies 
was 63 % in both groups receiving Benlysta or placebo. Infections occurring in at least 3 % of patients 
receiving Benlysta and at least 1 % more frequently than patients receiving placebo were viral upper 
respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, and urinary tract infection bacterial. Serious infections occurred in 5 % 
of patients in both groups receiving Benlysta or placebo; serious opportunistic infections accounted for 
0.4 % and 0 % of these, respectively. Infections leading to discontinuation of treatment occurred in 0.7 % of 
patients receiving Benlysta and 1.5 % of patients receiving placebo. Some infections were severe or fatal. 
For information on infections observed in paediatric patients with SLE see Paediatric population section 
below. 
In the lupus nephritis study, patients were receiving a background of standard therapy (see section 5.1) and 
the overall incidence of infections was 82 % in patients receiving Benlysta compared with 76 % in patients 
receiving placebo. Serious infections occurred in 13.8 % of patients receiving Benlysta and in 17.0 % of 
patients receiving placebo. Fatal infections occurred in 0.9 % (2/224) of patients receiving Benlysta and in 
0.9 % (2/224) of patients receiving placebo.  
In a randomised, double-blind, 52-week, post-marketing safety SLE study (BEL115467) which assessed 
mortality and specific adverse events in adults, serious infections occurred in 3.7 % of patients receiving 
Benlysta (10 mg/kg intravenously) vs. 4.1 % of patients receiving placebo. However, fatal infections (e.g. 
pneumonia and sepsis) occurred in 0.45 % (9/2002) of Benlysta-treated patients vs. 0.15 % (3/2001) of 
patients receiving placebo, while the incidence of all-cause mortality was 0.50 % (10/2002) vs. 0.40 % 
(8/2001), respectively. Most fatal infections were observed during the first 20 weeks of treatment with 
Benlysta. 
Psychiatric disorders: In the pre-registration intravenous SLE clinical studies, serious psychiatric events 
were reported in 1.2 % (8/674) of patients receiving Benlysta 10 mg/kg and 0.4 % (3/675) of patients 
receiving placebo. Serious depression was reported in 0.6 % (4/674) of patients receiving Benlysta 10 mg/kg 
and 0.3 % (2/675) of patients receiving placebo. There were two suicides in Benlysta-treated patients 
(including one receiving 1 mg/kg Benlysta). 
In a post-marketing SLE study, serious psychiatric events were reported in 1.0 % (20/2002) of patients 
receiving Benlysta and 0.3 % (6/2001) of patients receiving placebo. Serious depression was reported in 
0.3 % (7/2002) of patients receiving Benlysta and < 0.1 % (1/2001) of patients receiving placebo. The 
overall incidence of serious suicidal ideation or behaviour or self-injury without suicidal intent was 0.7 % 
(15/2002) in patients receiving Benlysta and 0.2 % (5/2001) in the placebo group. No suicide was reported in 
either group. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The intravenous SLE studies above did not exclude patients with a history of psychiatric disorders. 
In the subcutaneous SLE clinical study, which excluded patients with a history of psychiatric disorders, 
serious psychiatric events were reported in 0.2 % (1/556) of patients receiving Benlysta and in no patients 
receiving placebo. There were no serious depression-related events or suicides reported in either group. 
Leucopenia: The incidence of leucopenia reported in patients with SLE as an adverse event was 3 % in the 
group receiving Benlysta and 2 % in the group receiving placebo. 
Gastrointestinal disorders: Obese patients [Body mass index (BMI) > 30 kg/m2] with SLE treated with 
intravenously administered Benlysta reported higher rates of nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea relative to 
placebo, and compared with normal-weight patients (BMI ≥ 18.5 to ≤ 30 kg/m2). None of these 
gastrointestinal events in obese patients were serious. 
Paediatric population 
The adverse reaction profile in paediatric patients is based on 52-week safety data from a placebo-controlled 
study in which 53 patients (6 to 17 years of age) with SLE received Benlysta (10 mg/kg intravenously on 
Days 0, 14, 28, and then every 28 days, on a background of concomitant treatments). No new safety signals 
were observed in the paediatric population 12 years of age and above (n = 43). Safety data in children 
younger than 12 years of age (n = 10) are limited. 
Infections 
5- to 11-year-old group: infections were reported in 8/10 patients receiving Benlysta and 3/3 patients 
receiving placebo, and serious infections were reported in 1/10 patients receiving Benlysta and 2/3 patients 
receiving placebo (see section 4.4). 
12- to 17-year-old group: infections were reported in 22/43 patients receiving Benlysta and 25/37 patients 
receiving placebo, and serious infections were reported in 3/43 patients receiving Benlysta and 3/37 patients 
receiving placebo. In the open-label extension phase there was one fatal infection in a patient receiving 
Benlysta. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is limited clinical experience with overdose of Benlysta. Adverse reactions reported in association 
with cases of overdose have been consistent with those expected for belimumab. 
Two doses up to 20 mg/kg administered 21 days apart by intravenous infusion have been given to humans 
with no increase in incidence or severity of adverse reactions compared with doses of 1, 4, or 10 mg/kg. 
In the case of inadvertent overdose, patients should be carefully observed and supportive care administered, 
as appropriate. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AA26  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action  
Belimumab is a human IgG1 monoclonal antibody specific for soluble human B Lymphocyte Stimulator 
protein (BLyS, also referred to as BAFF and TNFSF13B). Belimumab blocks the binding of soluble BLyS, a 
B cell survival factor, to its receptors on B cells. Belimumab does not bind B cells directly, but by binding 
BLyS, belimumab inhibits the survival of B cells, including autoreactive B cells, and reduces the 
differentiation of B cells into immunoglobulin-producing plasma cells. 
BLyS levels are elevated in patients with SLE and other autoimmune diseases. There is an association 
between plasma BLyS levels and SLE disease activity. The relative contribution of BLyS levels to the 
pathophysiology of SLE is not fully understood. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Changes in biomarkers were seen in clinical trials with Benlysta administered intravenously. In adult patients 
with SLE with hypergammaglobulinemia, normalization of IgG levels was observed by Week 52 in 49 % 
and 20 % of patients receiving Benlysta and placebo, respectively. 
In patients with SLE with anti-dsDNA antibodies, 16 % of patients treated with Benlysta converted to anti-
dsDNA negative compared with 7 % of the patients receiving placebo by Week 52. 
In patients with SLE with low complement levels, normalization of C3 and C4 was observed by Week 52 in 
38 % and 44 % of patients receiving Benlysta and in 17 % and 18 % of patients receiving placebo, 
respectively. 
Of the anti-phospholipid antibodies, only anti-cardiolipin antibody was measured. For anti-cardiolipin IgA 
antibody a 37 % reduction at Week 52 was seen (p = 0.0003), for anti-cardiolipin IgG antibody a 26 % 
reduction at Week 52 was seen (p = 0.0324) and for anti-cardiolipin IgM a 25 % reduction was seen (p = NS, 
0.46). 
Changes in B cells (including naïve, memory and activated B cells, and plasma cells) and IgG levels 
occurring in patients with SLE during ongoing treatment with intravenous belimumab were followed in a 
long-term uncontrolled extension study. After 7 and a half years of treatment (including the 72-week parent 
study), a substantial and sustained decrease in various B cell subsets was observed leading to 87 % median 
reduction in naïve B cells, 67 % in memory B cells, 99 % in activated B cells, and 92 % median reduction in 
plasma cells after more than 7 years of treatment. After about 7 years, a 28 % median reduction in IgG levels 
was observed, with 1.6 % of subjects experiencing a decrease in IgG levels to below 400 mg/dL. Over the 
course of the study, the reported incidence of AEs generally remained stable or declined.  
In patients with active lupus nephritis, following treatment with Benlysta (10 mg/kg intravenously) or 
placebo, there was an increase in serum IgG levels which was associated with decreased proteinuria. Relative 
to placebo, smaller increases in serum IgG levels were observed in the Benlysta group as expected with the 
known mechanism of belimumab. At Week 104, the median percent increase from baseline in IgG was 17 % 
for Benlysta and 37 % for placebo. Reductions in autoantibodies, increases in complement, and reductions in 
circulating total B cells and B-cell subsets observed were consistent with the SLE studies.  
In one study in paediatric patients with SLE (6 to 17 years of age) the pharmacodynamic response was 
consistent with the adult data. 
Immunogenicity  
Assay sensitivity for neutralising antibodies and non-specific anti-drug antibody (ADA) is limited by the 
presence of active drug in the collected samples. The true occurrence of neutralising antibodies and 
non-specific anti-drug antibody in the study population is therefore not known. In the two Phase III SLE 
studies in adults, 4 of the 563 (0.7 %) patients in the 10 mg/kg group and 27 out of 559 (4.8 %) patients in 
the 1 mg/kg group tested positive for persistent presence of anti-belimumab antibodies. Among 
persistent-positive subjects in the Phase III SLE studies, 1/10 (10 %), 2/27 (7 %) and 1/4 (25 %) subjects in 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively, experienced infusion reactions on a dosing day; 
these infusion reactions were all non-serious and mild to moderate in severity. Few patients with ADA 
reported serious/severe AEs. The rates of infusion reactions among persistent-positive subjects were 
comparable to the rates for ADA negative patients of 75/552 (14 %), 78/523 (15 %), and 83/559 (15 %) in 
the placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively. 
In the lupus nephritis study where 224 patients received Benlysta 10 mg/kg intravenously, no 
anti-belimumab antibodies were detected.  
In one study in 6 to 17-year-old paediatric patients with SLE (n = 53), none of the patients developed 
anti-belimumab antibodies. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
SLE 
Intravenous infusion in adults 
The  efficacy  of  Benlysta  administered  intravenously  was  evaluated  in  2 randomised,  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled studies in 1684 patients with a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to the American College 
of  Rheumatology  (ACR)  classification  criteria.  Patients  had  active  SLE  disease,  defined  as  a 
SELENA-SLEDAI (SELENA = Safety of Estrogens in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus National Assessment; 
SLEDAI = Systemic  Lupus  Erythematosus  Disease  Activity  Index)  score   6  and  positive  anti-nuclear 
antibody (ANA) test results (ANA titre  1:80 and/or a positive anti-dsDNA [ 30 units/mL]) at screening. 
Patients  were  on  a  stable  SLE  treatment  regimen  consisting  of  (alone  or  in  combination):  corticosteroids, 
anti-malarials,  NSAIDs  or  other  immunosuppressives.  The  two studies  were  similar  in  design  except  that 
BLISS-76  was  a  76-week  study  and  BLISS-52  was  a  52-week  study.  In  both  studies the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint was evaluated at 52 weeks. 
Patients who had severe active lupus nephritis and patients who had severe active central nervous system 
(CNS) lupus were excluded. 
BLISS-76 was conducted primarily in North America and Western Europe. Background medicinal products 
included corticosteroids (76 %; > 7.5 mg/day 46 %), immunosuppressives (56 %), and anti-malarials (63 %). 
BLISS-52 was conducted in South America, Eastern Europe, Asia, and Australia. Background medicinal 
products included corticosteroids (96 %; > 7.5 mg/day 69 %), immunosuppressives (42 %), and anti-
malarials (67 %). 
At baseline 52 % of patients had high disease activity (SELENA SLEDAI score ≥ 10), 59 % of patients had 
mucocutaneous, 60 % had musculoskeletal, 16 % had haematological, 11 % had renal and 9 % had vascular 
organ domain involvement (BILAG A or B at baseline). 
The primary efficacy endpoint was a composite endpoint (SLE Responder Index) that defined response as 
meeting each of the following criteria at Week 52 compared with baseline: 
• 
• 
• 
 4-point reduction in the SELENA-SLEDAI score, and 
no new British Isles Lupus Assessment Group (BILAG) A organ domain score or 2 new BILAG B 
organ domain scores, and  
no worsening (< 0.30 point increase) in Physician’s Global Assessment score (PGA) 
The SLE Responder Index measures improvement in SLE disease activity, without worsening in any organ 
system, or in the patient’s overall condition. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Response rate at Week 52 
BLISS-76 
BLISS-52 
BLISS-76 and BLISS-52 
pooled 
Response 
Placebo1 
(n = 275) 
33.8 % 
SLE responder 
index 
Observed 
difference vs. 
placebo 
Odds ratio 
(95 % CI) vs. 
placebo 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg1 
(n = 273) 
43.2 % 
(p = 0.021) 
Placebo1 
(n = 287) 
43.6 % 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg1 
(n = 290) 
57.6 % 
(p = 0.0006) 
Placebo1 
(n = 562) 
38.8 % 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg1 
(n = 563) 
50.6 % 
(p< 0.0001) 
9.4 % 
14.0 % 
11.8 % 
1.52 
(1.07, 2.15) 
1.83 
(1.30, 2.59) 
1.68 
(1.32, 2.15) 
46.9 % 
(p = 0.006) 
35.6 % 
Components of SLE responder index 
Percent of 
patients with 
reduction in 
SELENA- 
SLEDAI  4 
Percent of 
patients with 
no worsening 
by BILAG 
index 
Percent of 
patients with 
no worsening 
by PGA  
65.1 % 
62.9 % 
69.2 % 
(p = 0.32) 
69.2 % 
(p = 0.13) 
46.0 % 
58.3 % 
(p = 0.0024) 
40.9 % 
52.8 % 
(p < 0.0001) 
73.2 % 
81.4 % 
(p = 0.018) 
69.2 % 
75.5 % 
(p = 0.019) 
69.3 % 
79.7 % 
(p = 0.0048) 
66.2 % 
74.6 % 
(p = 0.0017) 
1  All patients received standard therapy 
In a pooled analysis of the two studies, the percentage of patients receiving > 7.5 mg/day prednisone (or 
equivalent) at baseline, whose average corticosteroid dose was reduced by at least 25 % to a dose equivalent 
to prednisone ≤ 7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 52, was 17.9 % in the group receiving Benlysta and 
12.3 % in the group receiving placebo (p = 0.0451). 
Flares in SLE were defined by the modified SELENA SLEDAI SLE Flare Index. The median time to the 
first flare was delayed in the pooled group receiving Benlysta compared to the group receiving placebo (110 
vs. 84 days, hazard ratio = 0.84, p = 0.012). Severe flares were observed in 15.6 % of the Benlysta group 
compared to 23.7 % of the placebo group over the 52 weeks of observation (observed treatment 
difference = -8.1 %; hazard ratio = 0.64, p = 0.0011). 
Benlysta demonstrated improvement in fatigue compared with placebo measured by the FACIT-Fatigue 
scale in the pooled analysis. The mean change of score at Week 52 from baseline is significantly greater with 
Benlysta compared to placebo (4.70 vs. 2.46, p = 0.0006). 
Univariate and multivariate analysis of the primary endpoint in pre-specified subgroups demonstrated that 
the greatest benefit was observed in patients with higher disease activity including patients with SELENA 
SLEDAI scores ≥ 10, or patients requiring steroids to control their disease, or patients with low complement 
levels. 
Post-hoc analysis has identified high responding subgroups such as those patients with low complement and 
positive anti-dsDNA at baseline, see Table 2 for results of this example of a higher disease activity group. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of these patients, 64.5 % had SELENA SLEDAI scores ≥ 10 at baseline. 
Table 2. Patients with low complement and positive anti-dsDNA at baseline 
Subgroup 
BLISS-76 and BLISS-52 pooled data 
SRI response rate at Week 52 (%) 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
SRI response rate (excluding complement and anti-
dsDNA changes) at Week 52 (%) 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
Severe flares over 52 weeks 
Anti-dsDNA positive AND low complement 
Placebo 
(n = 287) 
31.7 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
(n = 305) 
51.5 (p < 0.0001) 
19.8 
28.9 
46.2 (p < 0.0001) 
Patients experiencing a severe flare (%) 
29.6 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
Time to severe flare [Hazard ratio (95 % CI)] 
Prednisone reduction by ≥ 25 % from baseline to 
≤ 7.5 mg/day during weeks 40 through 521 (%)  
(n = 173) 
12.1 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
17.3 
19.0 
10.6 
0.61 (0.44, 0.85) 
(p = 0.0038) 
(n = 195) 
18.5 (p = 0.0964) 
6.3 
FACIT-fatigue score improvement from baseline at 
Week 52 (mean) 
1.99 
4.21 (p = 0.0048) 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (mean 
difference) 
BLISS-76 study only 
SRI response rate at Week 76 (%) 
Observed treatment difference vs. placebo (%) 
1 Among patients with baseline prednisone dose > 7.5 mg/day. 
Placebo 
(n = 131) 
27.5 
2.21 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
(n = 134) 
39.6 (p = 0.0160) 
12.1 
The efficacy and safety of Benlysta in combination with a single cycle of rituximab have been studied in a 
Phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 104-week study including 292 patients (BLISS-
BELIEVE). The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects with a state of disease control defined as a 
SLEDAI-2K score ≤ 2, achieved without immunosuppressants and with corticosteroids at a prednisone 
equivalent dose of ≤ 5 mg/day at Week 52. This was achieved in 19.4 % (n = 28/144) of the patients treated 
with Benlysta in combination with rituximab and in 16.7 % (n = 12/72) of the patients treated with Benlysta 
in combination with placebo (odds ratio 1.27; 95 % CI: 0.60, 2.71; p = 0.5342). A higher frequency of 
adverse events (91.7 % vs. 87.5 %), serious adverse events (22.2 % vs. 13.9 %) and serious infections (9.0 % 
vs. 2.8 %) were observed in patients treated with Benlysta in combination with rituximab as compared to 
Benlysta in combination with placebo. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lupus nephritis 
In the intravenous SLE studies, described above, patients who had severe active lupus nephritis were 
excluded; however, 11 % of patients had renal organ domain involvement at baseline (based on BILAG A or 
B assessment). The following study in active lupus nephritis has been conducted. 
The efficacy and safety of Benlysta 10 mg/kg administered intravenously over a 1-hour period on Days 0, 
14, 28, and then every 28 days, were evaluated in a 104-week randomised (1:1), double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, Phase III study (BEL114054) in 448 patients with active lupus nephritis. The patients 
had a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to ACR classification criteria, biopsy proven lupus nephritis Class 
III, IV, and/or V and had active renal disease at screening requiring standard therapy. Standard therapy 
included corticosteroids, 0 to 3 intravenous administrations of methylprednisolone (500 to1000 mg per 
administration), followed by oral prednisone 0.5 to1 mg/kg/day with a total daily dose ≤60 mg/day and 
tapered to ≤ 10 mg/day by Week 24, with: 
• 
mycophenolate mofetil 1 to 3 g/day orally or mycophenolate sodium 720 to 2160 mg/day orally for 
induction and maintenance, or 
cyclophosphamide 500 mg intravenously every 2 weeks for 6 infusions for induction followed by 
azathioprine orally at a target dose of 2 mg/kg/day for maintenance. 
• 
This study was conducted in Asia, North America, South America, and Europe. Patient median age was 
31 years (range: 18 to 77 years); the majority (88 %) were female. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was Primary Efficacy Renal Response (PERR) at Week 104 defined as a 
response at Week 100 confirmed by a repeat measurement at Week 104 of the following parameters: urinary 
protein:creatinine ratio (uPCR) ≤ 700 mg/g (79.5 mg/mmol) and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) 
≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 or no decrease in eGFR of > 20 % from pre-flare value. 
The major secondary endpoints included: 
• 
Complete Renal Response (CRR) defined as a response at Week 100 confirmed by a repeat 
measurement at Week 104 of the following parameters: uPCR < 500 mg/g (56.8 mg/mmol) and eGFR 
≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 or no decrease in eGFR of > 10 % from pre-flare value. 
PERR at Week 52. 
Time to renal-related event or death (renal-related event defined as first event of end-stage renal 
disease, doubling of serum creatinine, renal worsening [defined as increased proteinuria, and/or 
impaired renal function], or receipt of renal disease-related prohibited therapy). 
• 
• 
For PERR and CRR endpoints, steroid treatment had to be reduced to ≤ 10 mg/day from Week 24 to be 
considered a responder. For these endpoints, patients who discontinued treatment early, received prohibited 
medication, or withdrew from the study early were considered non-responders. 
The proportion of patients achieving PERR at Week 104 was significantly higher in patients receiving 
Benlysta compared with placebo. The major secondary endpoints also showed significant improvement with 
Benlysta compared with placebo (Table 3). 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Efficacy results in adult patients with lupus nephritis 
Efficacy endpoint 
Placebo 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
Observed 
difference 
vs. placebo 
(n = 223) 
(n = 223) 
32.3 % 
43.0 % 
10.8 % 
33.6 % 
44.4 % 
10.8 % 
50.2 % 
57.4 % 
7.2 % 
74.4 % 
83.0 % 
8.5 % 
19.7 % 
30.0 % 
10.3 % 
Odds/Hazard 
ratio vs. 
placebo 
(95 % CI) 
OR 1.55 
(1.04, 2.32) 
P-
value 
0.0311 
OR 1.54 
(1.04, 2.29) 
0.0320 
OR 1.32 
(0.90, 1.94) 
OR 1.65 
(1.03, 2.63) 
OR 1.74 
(1.11, 2.74) 
0.1599 
0.0364 
0.0167 
28.7 % 
39.5 % 
10.8 % 
OR 1.58 
(1.05, 2.38) 
0.0268 
39.9 % 
46.6 % 
6.7 % 
74.4 % 
83.0 % 
8.5 % 
35.4 % 
46.6 % 
11.2 % 
OR 1.33 
(0.90, 1.96) 
OR 1.65 
(1.03, 2.63) 
OR 1.59 
(1.06, 2.38) 
0.1539 
0.0364 
0.0245 
28.3 % 
15.7 % 
- 
PERR at Week 1041 
Responders 
Components of PERR 
Urine protein:creatinine 
ratio ≤ 700 mg/g 
(79.5 mg/mmol) 
eGFR≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 
or no decrease in eGFR 
from pre-flare value of 
> 20 % 
Not treatment failure³ 
CRR at Week 1041 
Responders 
Components of CRR 
Urine protein:creatinine 
ratio < 500 mg/g 
(56.8 mg/mmol) 
eGFR≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 
or no decrease in eGFR 
from pre-flare value of 
> 10 % 
Not treatment failure³ 
PERR at Week 521 
Responders 
Time to renal-related 
event or death1 
Percentage of patients with 
event2 
Time to event [Hazard ratio 
(95 % CI)] 
HR 0.51 
(0.34, 0.77) 
0.0014 
1  PERR at Week 104 was the primary efficacy analysis; CRR at Week 104, PERR at Week 52 and time to 
- 
renal-related event or death were included in the pre-specified testing hierarchy. 
2  When excluding deaths from the analysis (1 for Benlysta; 2 for placebo), the percentage of patients with a 
renal-related event was 15.2 % for Benlysta compared with 27.4 % for placebo (HR = 0.51; 95 % CI: 0.34, 
0.78). 
³ Treatment failure: Patients who took protocol-prohibited medication. 
A numerically greater percentage of patients receiving Benlysta achieved PERR beginning at Week 24 
compared with placebo, and this treatment difference was maintained through to Week 104. Beginning at 
Week 12, a numerically greater percentage of patients receiving Benlysta achieved CRR compared with 
placebo and the numerical difference was maintained through to Week 104 (Figure 1). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Response rates in adults with lupus nephritis by visit 
Primary Efficacy Renal Response (PERR) 
E
S
-
/
+
)
%
(
s
r
e
d
n
o
p
s
e
R
E
S
-
/
+
)
%
(
s
r
e
d
n
o
p
s
e
R
Benlysta + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Placebo + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Time (weeks) 
Complete Renal Response (CRR) 
Benlysta + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Placebo + Standard therapy (n = 223) 
Time (weeks) 
In descriptive subgroup analyses, key efficacy endpoints (PERR and CRR) were examined by induction 
regimen (mycophenolate or cyclophosphamide) and biopsy class (Class III or IV, Class III + V or Class IV + 
V, or Class V) (Figure 2). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Odds ratio of PERR and CRR at Week 104 across subgroups 
Subgroup 
Benlysta (n) versus Placebo (n) 
Induction regimen 
Favours Placebo 
Favours Benlysta 
Mycophenolate (164 vs. 164) 
Cyclophosphamide (59 vs. 59) 
Biopsy class 
Class III or Class IV (126 vs. 132) 
Class III + V or Class IV + V (61 vs. 55) 
Class V (36 vs. 36) 
0.1
0.2 
0.5 
1 
Odds ratio 
2 
4 
8 
Primary Efficacy Renal Response (PERR) 
Complete Renal Response (CRR) 
Response rate 
Placebo       Benlysta 
(%) 
(%) 
34 
20 
27 
19 
32 
19 
27 
15 
42 
31 
46 
34 
34 
19 
48 
31 
38 
26 
36 
33 
Odds ratio 
(95 % CI) 
1.6 (1.0, 2.5) 
2.0 (1.2, 3.4) 
1.5 (0.7, 3.5) 
1.1 (0.4, 2.8) 
1.8 (1.1, 3.1) 
1.8 (1.0, 3.2) 
1.8 (0.8, 4.0) 
2.8 (1.0, 7.7) 
0.6 (0.2, 1.9) 
0.8 (0.3, 2.6) 
Age and race 
Age 
There were no observed differences in efficacy or safety in SLE patients ≥ 65 years who received Benlysta 
intravenously or subcutaneously compared to the overall population in placebo-controlled studies; however, 
the number of patients aged ≥ 65 years (62 patients for efficacy and 219 for safety) is not sufficient to 
determine whether they respond differently to younger patients. 
Black patients 
Benlysta was administered intravenously to black patients with SLE in a randomised (2:1), double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 52-week Phase III/IV study (EMBRACE). Efficacy was evaluated in 448 patients. The 
proportion of black patients achieving an SRI-S2K response was higher in patients receiving Benlysta but the 
difference was not statistically significant compared with placebo. However, consistent with results from 
other studies, in black patients with high disease activity (low complement and positive anti-dsDNA at 
baseline, n = 141) the SRI-S2K response was 45.1 % for Benlysta 10 mg/kg compared with 24.0 % for 
placebo (odds ratio 3.00; 95 % CI: 1.35, 6.68). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Benlysta was evaluated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
52-week study (PLUTO) in 93 paediatric patients with a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to the ACR 
classification criteria. Patients had active SLE disease, defined as a SELENA-SLEDAI score ≥ 6 and positive 
autoantibodies at screening as described in the adult trials. Patients were on a stable SLE treatment regimen 
(standard of care) and had similar inclusion criteria as the adult studies. Patients who had severe active lupus 
nephritis, severe active CNS lupus, primary immunodeficiency, IgA deficiency or acute or chronic infections 
requiring management were excluded from the study. The study was conducted in the US, South America, 
Europe, and Asia. Patient median age was 15 years (range 6 to 17 years). In the 5- to 11-year-old-group 
(n = 13) the SELENA-SLEDAI score ranged from 4 to 13, and in 12- to 17-year-old-group (n = 79) the 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SELENA-SLEDAI score ranged from 4 to 20. The majority (94.6 %) of patients were female. The study was 
not powered for any statistical comparisons and all data are descriptive. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the SLE Responder Index (SRI) at Week 52 as described in the adult 
intravenous trials. There was a higher proportion of paediatric patients achieving an SRI response in patients 
receiving Benlysta compared with placebo. The response for the individual components of the endpoint were 
consistent with that of the SRI (Table 4). 
Table 4. Paediatric response rate at Week 52 
Response1 
SLE Responder Index (%) 
Odds ratio (95 % CI) vs. placebo 
Components of SLE Responder Index 
Percent of patients with reduction in 
SELENA-SLEDAI  4 (%) 
Odds ratio (95 % CI) vs. placebo 
Percent of patients with no worsening by BILAG 
index (%) 
Odds ratio (95 % CI) vs. placebo 
Percent of patients with no worsening by PGA (%) 
Odds ratio (95 % CI) vs. placebo 
Placebo 
(n = 40) 
43.6 
(17/39) 
43.6 
(17/39) 
61.5 
(24/39) 
66.7 
(26/39) 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
(n = 53) 
52.8 
(28/53) 
1.49 (0.64, 3.46) 
54.7 
(29/53) 
1.62 (0.69, 3.78) 
73.6 
(39/53) 
1.96 (0.77, 4.97) 
75.5 
(40/53) 
1.70 (0.66, 4.39) 
1 Analyses excluded any subject missing a baseline assessment for any of the components (1 for placebo). 
Among patients experiencing a severe flare, the median study day of the first severe flare was Day 150 in the 
Benlysta group and Day 113 in the placebo group. Severe flares were observed in 17.0 % of the Benlysta 
group compared to 35.0 % of the placebo group over the 52 weeks of observation (observed treatment 
difference = 18.0 %; hazard ratio = 0.36, 95 % CI: 0.15, 0.86). This was consistent with the findings from the 
adult intravenous clinical trials. 
Using the Paediatric Rheumatology International Trials Organisation/American College of Rheumatology 
(PRINTO/ACR) Juvenile SLE Response Evaluation Criteria, a higher proportion of paediatric patients 
receiving Benlysta demonstrated improvement compared with placebo (Table 5). 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. PRINTO/ACR response rate at Week 52 
Proportion of patients with at 
least 50 % improvement in any 
2 of 5 components1 and no 
more than one of the remaining 
worsening by more than 30 % 
Proportion of patients with at 
least 30 % improvement in 3 of 
5 components1 and no more 
than one of the remaining 
worsening more than 30 % 
Placebo 
n = 40 
14/40 
(35.0) 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
n = 53 
32/53 
(60.4) 
25.38 
2.74 
(1.15, 6.54) 
Placebo 
n = 40 
11/40 
(27.5) 
Benlysta 
10 mg/kg 
n = 53 
28/53 
(52.8) 
25.33 
2.92 
(1.19, 7.17) 
Response, n (%) 
Observed difference vs. Placebo 
Odds ratio (95 % CI) vs. Placebo 
1 The five PRINTO/ACR components were percent change at Week 52 in: Parent’s Global Assessment 
(Parent GA), PGA, SELENA SLEDAI score, 24-hour proteinuria, and, Paediatric Quality of Life 
Inventory – Generic Core Scale (PedsQL GC) physical functioning domain score. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
The intravenous pharmacokinetic parameters quoted below are based on population parameter estimates for 
the 563 patients with SLE who received Benlysta 10 mg/kg in the two Phase III studies. 
Absorption  
Benlysta is administered by intravenous infusion. Maximum serum concentrations of belimumab were 
generally observed at, or shortly after, the end of the infusion. The maximum serum concentration was 
313 µg/mL (range: 173-573 µg/mL) based on simulating the concentration time profile using the typical 
parameter values of the population pharmacokinetic model. 
Distribution  
Belimumab was distributed to tissues with steady-state volume (Vss) of distribution of approximately 
5 litres.  
Biotransformation  
Belimumab is a protein for which the expected metabolic pathway is degradation to small peptides and 
individual amino acids by widely distributed proteolytic enzymes. Classical biotransformation studies have 
not been conducted. 
Elimination  
Serum belimumab concentrations declined in a bi-exponential manner, with a distribution half-life of 
1.75 days and terminal half-life 19.4 days. The systemic clearance was 215 mL/day (range: 69-622 mL/day). 
Lupus nephritis study  
A population pharmacokinetic analysis was conducted in 224 adult patients with lupus nephritis who 
received Benlysta 10 mg/kg intravenously (Days 0, 14, 28, and then every 28 days up to 104 weeks). In 
patients with lupus nephritis, due to renal disease activity, belimumab clearance was initially higher than 
observed in SLE studies; however, after 24 weeks of treatment and throughout the remainder of the study, 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
belimumab clearance and exposure were similar to that observed in adult patients with SLE who received 
Benlysta 10 mg/kg intravenously.  
Special patient populations 
Paediatric population: The pharmacokinetic parameters are based on individual parameter estimates from a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis of 53 patients from a study in paediatric patients with SLE. Following 
intravenous administration of 10 mg/kg on Days 0, 14 and 28, and at 4-week intervals thereafter, belimumab 
exposures were similar between paediatric and adult SLE subjects. Steady-state geometric mean Cmax, Cmin, 
and AUC values were 305 g/mL, 42 g/mL, and 2569 day•g/mL in the 5- to 11-year-old-group, and 
317 g/mL, 52 g/mL, and 3126 day•g/mL in the 12- to 17-year-old-group (n = 43).  
Elderly: Benlysta has been studied in a limited number of elderly patients. Within the overall SLE 
intravenous study population, age did not affect belimumab exposure in the population pharmacokinetic 
analysis. However, given the small number of subjects ≥ 65 years, an effect of age cannot be ruled out 
conclusively.  
Renal impairment: No specific studies have been conducted to examine the effects of renal impairment on 
the pharmacokinetics of belimumab. During clinical development Benlysta was studied in patients with SLE 
and renal impairment (261 subjects with moderate renal impairment, creatinine clearance  30 and 
< 60 mL/min; 14 subjects with severe renal impairment, creatinine clearance  15 and < 30 mL/min). The 
reduction in systemic clearance estimated by population PK modelling for patients at the midpoints of the 
renal impairment categories relative to patients with median creatinine clearance in the PK population 
(79.9 mL/min) were 1.4 % for mild (75 mL/min), 11.7 % for moderate (45 mL/min) and 24.0 % for severe 
(22.5 mL/min) renal impairment. Although proteinuria (≥ 2 g/day) increased belimumab clearance and 
decreases in creatinine clearance decreased belimumab clearance, these effects were within the expected 
range of variability. Therefore, no dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment: No specific studies have been conducted to examine the effects of hepatic impairment 
on the pharmacokinetics of belimumab. IgG1 molecules such as belimumab are catabolised by widely 
distributed proteolytic enzymes, which are not restricted to hepatic tissue and changes in hepatic function are 
unlikely to have any effect on the elimination of belimumab.  
Body weight/Body Mass Index (BMI)  
Weight-normalised belimumab dosing leads to decreased exposure for underweight subjects (BMI < 18.5) 
and to increased exposure for obese subjects (BMI ≥ 30). BMI-dependent changes in exposure did not lead 
to corresponding changes in efficacy. Increased exposure for obese subjects receiving 10 mg/kg belimumab 
did not lead to an overall increase in AE rates or serious AEs compared to obese subjects receiving placebo. 
However, higher rates of nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were observed in obese patients. None of these 
gastrointestinal events in obese patients were serious. No dose adjustment is recommended for underweight 
or obese subjects.  
Transitioning from intravenous to subcutaneous administration 
SLE 
Patients with SLE transitioning from 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks to 200 mg subcutaneously 
weekly using a 1 to 4 week switching interval had pre-dose belimumab serum concentrations at their first 
subcutaneous dose close to their eventual subcutaneous steady-state trough concentration (see section 4.2). 
Based on simulations with population PK parameters the steady-state average belimumab concentrations for 
200 mg subcutaneous every week were similar to 10 mg/kg intravenous every 4 weeks. 
Lupus nephritis  
One to 2 weeks after completing the first 2 intravenous doses, patients with lupus nephritis transitioning from 
10 mg/kg intravenously to 200 mg subcutaneously weekly, are predicted to have average belimumab serum 
concentrations similar to patients dosed with 10 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks based on population PK 
simulations (see section 4.2). 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of repeated dose toxicity and toxicity 
to reproduction. 
Intravenous and subcutaneous administration to monkeys resulted in the expected reduction in the number of 
peripheral and lymphoid tissue B cell counts with no associated toxicological findings. 
Reproductive studies have been performed in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys receiving belimumab 
150 mg/kg by intravenous infusion (approximately 9 times the anticipated maximum human clinical 
exposure) every 2 weeks for up to 21 weeks, and belimumab treatment was not associated with direct or 
indirect harmful effects with respect to maternal toxicity, developmental toxicity, or teratogenicity. 
Treatment-related findings were limited to the expected reversible reduction of B cells in both dams and 
infants and reversible reduction of IgM in infant monkeys. B cell numbers recovered after the cessation of 
belimumab treatment by about 1 year post-partum in adult monkeys and by 3 months of life in infant 
monkeys; IgM levels in infants exposed to belimumab in utero recovered by 6 months of age. 
Effects on male and female fertility in monkeys were assessed in the 6-month repeat dose toxicology studies 
of belimumab at doses up to and including 50 mg/kg. No treatment-related changes were noted in the male 
and female reproductive organs of sexually mature animals. An informal assessment of menstrual cycling in 
females demonstrated no belimumab-related changes. 
As belimumab is a monoclonal antibody no genotoxicity studies have been conducted. No carcinogenicity 
studies or fertility studies (male or female) have been performed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Citric acid monohydrate (E330)  
Sodium citrate (E331)  
Sucrose  
Polysorbate 80  
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
Benlysta is not compatible with 5 % glucose. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life  
Unopened vials 
5 years. 
Reconstituted solution 
After reconstitution with water for injections, the reconstituted solution, if not used immediately, should be 
protected from direct sunlight, and stored refrigerated at 2 C to 8 C. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconstituted and diluted solution for infusion 
Solution of Benlysta diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or 
Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection may be stored at 2 C to 8 C or room temperature (15 C to 25 C). 
The total time from reconstitution of Benlysta to completion of infusion should not exceed 8 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2 C to 8 C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Benlysta 120 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Type 1 glass vials (5 mL), sealed with a siliconised chlorobutyl rubber stopper and a flip-off aluminium seal 
containing 120 mg of powder. 
Pack size: 1 vial 
Benlysta 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Type 1 glass vials (20 mL), sealed with a siliconised chlorobutyl rubber stopper and a flip-off aluminium 
seal containing 400 mg of powder. 
Pack size: 1 vial 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Preparation of 120 mg solution for infusion  
Reconstitution  
Reconstitution and dilution must be carried out under aseptic conditions.  
Allow 10 to 15 minutes for the vial to warm to room temperature (15 C to 25 C).  
It is recommended that a 21-25 gauge needle be used when piercing the vial stopper for reconstitution and 
dilution. 
The 120 mg single-use vial of belimumab is reconstituted with 1.5 mL of water for injections to yield a final 
concentration of 80 mg/mL belimumab. 
The stream of water for injections should be directed toward the side of the vial to minimize foaming. Gently 
swirl the vial for 60 seconds. Allow the vial to sit at room temperature (15 C to 25 C) during reconstitution, 
gently swirling the vial for 60 seconds every 5 minutes until the powder is dissolved. Do not shake. 
Reconstitution is typically complete within 10 to 15 minutes after the water has been added, but it may take 
up to 30 minutes.  
Protect the reconstituted solution from sunlight. 
If a mechanical reconstitution device is used to reconstitute Benlysta it should not exceed 500 rpm and the 
vial should be swirled for no longer than 30 minutes. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Once reconstitution is complete, the solution should be opalescent and colourless to pale yellow and without 
particles. Small air bubbles, however, are expected and acceptable. 
After reconstitution, a volume of 1.5 mL (corresponding to 120 mg belimumab) can be withdrawn from each 
vial. 
Dilution 
The reconstituted medicinal product is diluted to 250 mL with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium 
chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection. For patients whose body weight is 
less than or equal to 40 kg, infusion bags with 100 mL of these diluents may be considered providing that the 
resulting belimumab concentration in the infusion bag does not exceed 4 mg/mL. 
5 % glucose intravenous solutions are incompatible with Benlysta and must not be used. 
From a 250 mL (or 100 mL) infusion bag or bottle of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium chloride 
4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection, withdraw and discard a volume equal to the 
volume of the reconstituted Benlysta solution required for the patient’s dose. Then add the required volume 
of the reconstituted Benlysta solution into the infusion bag or bottle. Gently invert the bag or bottle to mix 
the solution. Any unused solution in the vials must be discarded. 
Inspect the Benlysta solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard 
the solution if any particulate matter or discoloration is observed. 
The total time from reconstitution of Benlysta to completion of infusion should not exceed 8 hours. 
Preparation of 400 mg solution for infusion  
Reconstitution  
Reconstitution and dilution must be carried out under aseptic conditions.  
Allow 10 to 15 minutes for the vial to warm to room temperature (15 C to 25 C). 
It is recommended that a 21-25 gauge needle be used when piercing the vial stopper for reconstitution and 
dilution. 
The 400 mg single-use vial of belimumab is reconstituted with 4.8 mL of water for injections to yield a final 
concentration of 80 mg/mL belimumab. 
The stream of water for injections should be directed toward the side of the vial to minimize foaming. Gently 
swirl the vial for 60 seconds. Allow the vial to sit at room temperature (15 C to 25 C) during reconstitution, 
gently swirling the vial for 60 seconds every 5 minutes until the powder is dissolved. Do not shake. 
Reconstitution is typically complete within 10 to 15 minutes after the water has been added, but it may take 
up to 30 minutes. 
Protect the reconstituted solution from sunlight. 
If a mechanical reconstitution device is used to reconstitute Benlysta it should not exceed 500 rpm and the 
vial should be swirled for no longer than 30 minutes. 
Once reconstitution is complete, the solution should be opalescent and colourless to pale yellow and without 
particles. Small air bubbles, however, are expected and acceptable. 
After reconstitution, a volume of 5 mL (corresponding to 400 mg belimumab) can be withdrawn from each 
vial. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dilution 
The reconstituted medicinal product is diluted to 250 mL with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium 
chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection. 
5 % glucose intravenous solutions are incompatible with Benlysta and must not be used. 
From a 250 mL infusion bag or bottle of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium chloride 4.5 mg/mL 
(0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection, withdraw and discard a volume equal to the volume of 
the reconstituted Benlysta solution required for the patient’s dose. Then add the required volume of the 
reconstituted Benlysta solution into the infusion bag or bottle. Gently invert the bag or bottle to mix the 
solution. Any unused solution in the vials must be discarded. 
Inspect the Benlysta solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard 
the solution if any particulate matter or discoloration is observed. 
The total time from reconstitution of Benlysta to completion of infusion should not exceed 8 hours. 
Method of administration 
Benlysta is infused over a 1 hour period. 
Benlysta should not be infused concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents. No physical or 
biochemical  compatibility  studies  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  the  co-administration  of  Benlysta  with 
other agents. 
No incompatibilities between Benlysta and polyvinylchloride or polyolefin bags have been observed. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/001 1 vial – 120 mg 
EU/1/11/700/002 1 vial – 400 mg 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 13 July 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 18 February 2016 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
46 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance 
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. 
Belward Large Scale Manufacturing (LSM) Facility 
9911 Belward Campus Drive 
Rockville, MD 20850 
USA 
OR 
Samsung Biologics Co. Ltd 
300, Songdo bio-daero, 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 21987, 
Korea, Republic of 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.P.A 
Strada Provinciale Asolana No. 90 
I-43056 San Polo di Torrile, Parma 
Italy 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing authorisation and any 
agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
The MAH shall also provide a data report on a long-term controlled safety registry 
where all patients are followed for a minimum of 5 years, based on a protocol agreed 
with CHMP. The safety registry will evaluate the incidence of all-cause mortality and 
adverse events of special interest in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. 
These adverse events of special interest include serious infections (including 
opportunistic infections and PML), selected serious psychiatric events, and 
malignancies (including non-melanoma skin cancer). 
Due date 
28 February 
2026 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON – PRE-FILLED PEN(S) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
belimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each 1 mL pre-filled pen contains 200 mg belimumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains: arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate 80, sodium 
chloride, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 
1 pre-filled pen. 
4 pre-filled pens. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
PRESS HERE TO OPEN 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited, 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/003 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/11/700/004 4 pre-filled pens 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
benlysta pen 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON – Multipack containing 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4 pre-filled pens)-with blue box  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
belimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each 1 mL pre-filled pen contains 200 mg belimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains: arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate 80, sodium 
chloride, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 
Multipack:12 pre-filled pens (3 cartons of 4 pre-filled pens). 
Do not sell separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk  
Citywest Business Campus  
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
benlysta pen 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING 
CARTON –- PRE-FILLED PEN- Multipack containing 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4 pre-filled pens)-
with out blue box 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
belimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each 1 mL pre-filled pen contains 200 mg belimumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains: arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate 80, sodium 
chloride, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen. 
4 pre-filled pens. Component of a multipack. 
Do not sell separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus  
Dublin 24  
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
benlysta pen 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Benlysta 200 mg injection  
belimumab 
SC 
Subcutaneous 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
1 mL 
6. 
OTHER  
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE(S) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
belimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each 1 mL pre-filled syringe contains 200 mg belimumab 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Also contains: arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate 80, sodium 
chloride, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe. 
1 pre-filled syringe. 
4 pre-filled syringes. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
PRESS HERE TO OPEN 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited, 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/006 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/11/700/007 4 pre-filled syringes 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
benlysta syringe 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Benlysta 200 mg  
belimumab 
SC 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
1 mL 
6. 
OTHER  
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON-VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Benlysta 120 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
belimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 120 mg belimumab (80 mg/mL after reconstitution) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Citric acid monohydrate (E330), sodium citrate (E331), sucrose, polysorbate 80  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
For intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited, 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/001 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Benlysta 120 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
belimumab 
IV 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
120 mg 
6. 
OTHER  
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON-VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Benlysta 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
belimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 400 mg belimumab (80 mg/mL after reconstitution) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Citric acid monohydrate (E330), sodium citrate (E331), sucrose, polysorbate 80  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
For intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited, 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/700/002 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Benlysta 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
belimumab 
IV 
2.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
400 mg 
6. 
OTHER  
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
belimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
-  
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Benlysta is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Benlysta 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Benlysta is used 
Possible side effects 
How to store Benlysta 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Step-by-step instructions for using the pre-filled pen 
1.  What Benlysta is and what it is used for 
Benlysta as a subcutaneous injection is a medicine used to treat lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus, SLE) 
in adults (18 years of age and older) whose disease is still highly active despite standard treatment. Benlysta is 
also used in combination with other medicines to treat adults with active lupus nephritis (lupus-related kidney 
inflammation). 
Lupus is a disease in which the immune system (the system that fights infection) attacks your own cells and 
tissues, causing inflammation and organ damage. It can affect almost any organ in the body, and is thought to 
involve a type of white blood cells called B cells. 
Benlysta contains belimumab (a monoclonal antibody). It reduces the number of B cells in your blood by 
blocking the action of BLyS, a protein that helps B cells to live longer and is found in high levels in people 
with lupus. 
You will be given Benlysta as well as your usual treatment for lupus. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Benlysta  
Do not use Benlysta  
• 
if you are allergic to belimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
➔  Check with your doctor if this may apply to you. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before you use Benlysta:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a current or long-term infection or if you often get infections. Your doctor will decide if 
you can be given Benlysta 
if you are planning to have a vaccination or have had a vaccination within the last 30 days. Some 
vaccines should not be given just before or during treatment with Benlysta 
if your lupus affects your nervous system 
if you are HIV positive or have low immunoglobulin levels 
if you have, or have had, hepatitis B or C 
if you have had an organ transplant, or a bone marrow or stem cell transplant 
if you have had cancer. 
➔  Tell your doctor if any of these may apply to you. 
Depression and suicide 
There have been reports of depression, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts including suicide during 
treatment with Benlysta. Tell your doctor if you have a history of these conditions. If you experience new or 
worsening symptoms at any time: 
➔  Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
If you feel depressed or have thoughts of harming yourself or committing suicide, you may find it helpful to 
tell a relative or close friend and ask them to read this leaflet. You might ask them to tell you if they are 
worried about changes in your mood or behaviour. 
Look out for important symptoms 
People taking medicines that affect their immune system may be more at risk of infections, including a rare 
but serious brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
➔  Read the information ‘Increased risk of brain infection’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
To improve the traceability of this medicine, you and your healthcare provider should record the Benlysta lot 
number. It is recommended that you make a note of this information in case you are asked for it in the future. 
Children and adolescents  
Do not give Benlysta as a subcutaneous injection to children or adolescents younger than 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Benlysta 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines, if you have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular tell your doctor if you are being treated with medicines that affect your immune system, 
including any medicine that affects your B cells (to treat cancer or inflammatory diseases). 
Using such medicines in combination with Benlysta may make your immune system less effective. This 
could increase your risk of a serious infection. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Contraception in women of childbearing potential  
• 
Use an effective method of contraception while you are being treated with Benlysta and for at least 
4 months after the last dose. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy  
Benlysta is not usually recommended if you are pregnant.  
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby. 
Your doctor will decide if you can use Benlysta. 
If you become pregnant while being treated with Benlysta, tell your doctor. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. It is likely that Benlysta can pass into breast milk. Your doctor 
will discuss with you whether you should stop treatment with Benlysta while you are breast-feeding, or if 
you should stop breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines  
Benlysta can have side effects which may make you less able to drive or use machines. 
Important information about the contents of Benlysta  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, so it is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How Benlysta is used 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you to. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Benlysta should be injected under your skin on the same day each week. 
How much to use 
Adults (18 years of age and older) 
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 
The recommended dose is 200 mg (complete contents of one pen) once a week. 
Lupus nephritis 
The recommended dose may vary. Your doctor will prescribe the right dose for you, which is either: 
• 
a dose of 200 mg (complete contents of one pen) once a week. 
or 
• 
a dose of 400 mg (complete contents of two pens in one day) once a week for 4 weeks. After this, the 
recommended dose is 200 mg (complete contents of one pen) once a week. 
If you wish to change your dosing day 
Take a dose on the new day (even if it is less than a week since your last dose). Continue with the new 
weekly schedule from that day. 
Injecting Benlysta 
Your doctor or nurse will show you or your caregiver how to inject Benlysta. Your first injection with the 
Benlysta pre-filled pen will be supervised by your doctor or nurse. After you have been trained on how to 
use the pen, your doctor or nurse may decide that you can give yourself the injection, or your caregiver can 
give it to you. Your doctor or nurse will also tell you what signs and symptoms to look out for when using 
Benlysta, because serious allergic reactions can occur (see ‘Allergic reactions’ in section 4). 
You inject Benlysta under your skin in your stomach area (abdomen) or upper leg (thigh).  
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benlysta subcutaneous injection must not be injected into a vein (intravenously). 
Instructions for using the pre-filled pen are given at the end of this leaflet. 
If you use more Benlysta than you should  
If this happens, immediately contact your doctor or nurse, who will monitor you for any signs or symptoms 
of side effects, and treat these symptoms if necessary. If possible show them the pack, or this leaflet.  
If you forget to use Benlysta 
Inject the missed dose as soon as you remember. Then continue with your normal weekly schedule as usual 
or start a new weekly schedule starting from the day you inject the missed dose.  
If you do not notice that you have missed a dose until it is already time for your next dose, then just inject 
this next dose as planned. 
Stopping treatment with Benlysta  
Your doctor will decide if you need to stop using Benlysta. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions — get medical help immediately 
Benlysta can cause a reaction to the injection, or an allergic (hypersensitivity) reaction.  
These are common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people). They can occasionally be severe 
(uncommon, affecting up to 1 in 100 people), and could be life-threatening. These severe reactions are more 
likely to happen on the day of your first or second treatment with Benlysta, but can be delayed and occur 
several days afterwards.  
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately, or go to the Emergency department of your nearest hospital, if 
you get any of the following symptoms of an allergic or injection-related reaction:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue 
wheezing, difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath 
rash 
itchy raised bumps or hives. 
Rarely, less severe delayed reactions to Benlysta can also occur, usually 5 to 10 days after an injection. 
They include symptoms such as rash, feeling sick, tiredness, muscle aches, headache, or facial swelling.  
If you experience these symptoms, particularly if you get two or more of them together: 
➔  Tell your doctor or nurse. 
Infections 
Benlysta can make you more likely to get infections, including infection of the urinary tract and airways. 
These are very common and may affect more than 1 in 10 people. Some infections can be severe and can 
uncommonly cause death. 
If you get any of the following symptoms of an infection: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fever and/or chills 
cough, breathing problems 
diarrhoea, vomiting 
burning sensation while passing urine; urinating often 
warm, red or painful skin or sores on your body. 
➔  Tell your doctor or nurse immediately. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Depression and suicide 
There have been reports of depression, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts during treatment with 
Benlysta. Depression can affect up to 1 in 10 people, suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts can affect up to 
1 in 100 people. If you feel depressed, have thoughts about harming yourself or other distressing thoughts, or 
if you are depressed and notice that you feel worse or develop new symptoms: 
➔  Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
Increased risk of brain infection 
Medicines that weaken your immune system, such as Benlysta, may put you at higher risk of getting a rare 
but serious and life-threatening brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Symptoms of PML include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
memory loss 
trouble in thinking 
difficulty with talking or walking 
loss of vision. 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms, or similar problems that 
have lasted over several days. 
If you already had these symptoms before you started treatment with Benlysta: 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any changes in these symptoms. 
Other possible side effects: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
bacterial infections (see ‘Infections’ above). 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
high temperature or fever 
• 
injection site reactions, for example: rash, redness, itching or swelling of the skin where you have 
injected Benlysta 
itchy, bumpy rash (hives), skin rash 
low white blood cell count (can be seen in blood tests) 
nose, throat or stomach infection 
pain in hands or feet 
migraine 
feeling sick, diarrhoea. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Benlysta 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 C to 8 C). 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
A single Benlysta pre-filled pen can be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum of 12 hours 
– as long as it is protected from light. Once removed from the refrigerator, the pen must be used within 
12 hours or discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Benlysta contains 
The active ingredient is belimumab.  
Each 1 mL pre-filled pen contains 200 mg belimumab. 
The other ingredients are arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate 80, 
sodium chloride, water for injections. See ‘Important information about the contents of Benlysta’ in section 2 
for further information. 
What Benlysta looks like and contents of the pack 
Benlysta is supplied as a 1 mL colourless to slightly yellow solution in a single use pre-filled pen. 
Available in packs of 1 or 4 pre-filled pens in each pack and multipacks comprising 12 pre-filled pens 
(3 packs of 4 pre-filled pens). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk  
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
Manufacturer  
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.P.A 
Strada Provinciale Asolana, 90 
43056 San Polo di Torrile 
Parma 
Italy 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 36044 8701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081100 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com 
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél.: + 33 (0)1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com  
România 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 40 800672524 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel:+ 385 800787089 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 386 80688869 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741111 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com  
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 370 80000334 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
76 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step-by-step instructions for using the pre-filled pen  
Once-Weekly 
Follow these instructions on how to use the pre-filled pen correctly. Failure to follow these instructions may 
affect proper function of the pre-filled pen. You should also receive training on how to use the pre-filled pen.  
Benlysta is for use under the skin only (subcutaneous). 
To improve the traceability of this medicine, you and your healthcare provider should record the Benlysta lot 
number. It is recommended that you make a note of this information in case you are asked for it in the future. 
Storage 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep refrigerated until 30 minutes before use. 
Keep in the carton in order to protect from light. 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not freeze. 
Do not use if left out at room temperature for more than 12 hours. 
Warnings 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The pre-filled pen should be used only once and then discarded. 
Do not share your Benlysta pre-filled pen with another person. 
Do not shake. 
Do not use if dropped onto a hard surface.  
Do not remove the ring cap until just before the injection. 
Benlysta pre-filled pen parts 
Inspection window 
Grey stopper 
Ring cap 
Exp: Month – Year 
Gold needle guard 
Expiry date 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplies you need for the injection 
Benlysta pre-filled pen 
Alcohol swab 
(not included) 
Gauze pad or cotton wool ball 
(not included) 
1. Gather and check supplies 
Gather supplies 
• 
• 
Remove one sealed tray containing a pre-filled pen from the refrigerator. 
Find a comfortable, well-lit and clean surface and place the following supplies within reach: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Benlysta pre-filled pen 
alcohol swab (not included in the pack) 
gauze pad or cotton wool ball (not included in the pack) 
container with a tight-fitting lid for pen disposal (not included in the pack). 
• 
Do not perform the injection if you do not have all the supplies listed. 
Check the expiry date 
• 
• 
Peel back the film of the tray and remove the pre-filled pen. 
Check the expiry date on the pre-filled pen. (Figure 1) 
Figure 1 
Exp: Month – Year 
Exp: Month – Year 
• 
Do not use if the expiry date has passed 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Prepare and inspect the pre-filled pen 
Allow to come to room temperature 
• 
Leave the pen at room temperature for 30 minutes. (Figure 2) Injecting cold Benlysta may take longer 
and may be uncomfortable. 
Figure 2 
Wait 30 minutes 
min 
• 
• 
Do not warm the pen in any other way. For example, do not warm it in a microwave oven, hot water 
or direct sunlight. 
Do not remove the ring cap during this step. 
Inspect the Benlysta solution 
• 
Look in the inspection window to check that the Benlysta solution is colourless to slightly yellow in 
colour. (Figure 3) 
It is normal to see one or more air bubbles in the solution. 
Figure 3 
Benlysta solution 
• 
Do not use if the solution looks cloudy, discoloured or has particles. 
3. Choose and clean the injection site 
Choose the injection site 
• 
Choose an injection site (abdomen or thigh) as seen in Figure 4. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you need 2 injections to complete your dose, leave at least 5 cm (2 inches) between each injection if 
using the same site. 
Do not inject into the exact same site each time. This is to avoid the skin becoming hardened. 
Do not inject in areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red or hard. 
Do not inject within 5 cm (2 inches) of the navel (belly button). 
Clean the injection site 
•  Wash your hands. 
• 
Clean the injection site by wiping it with an alcohol swab (Figure 5). Allow the skin to air dry.  
Figure 5 
• 
Do not touch this area again before giving the injection. 
4. Prepare for the injection 
Remove the ring cap. 
• 
• 
Do not remove the ring cap until immediately before the injection. 
Remove the ring cap by pulling or twisting it off. The ring cap may be twisted off either clockwise or 
anti-clockwise. (Figure 6) 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 
• 
Do not put the ring cap back onto the pen. 
Position the pen 
• 
Hold the pen comfortably so that you can view the inspection window. This is important so that you 
can confirm a complete dose. (Figure 7) 
Figure 7 
• 
• 
If needed, firm the injection site by pulling or stretching the skin. 
Position the pen straight over the injection site (at a 90o angle). Make sure the gold needle guard is flat 
on the skin. 
5. Inject Benlysta 
Start the injection 
• 
Firmly press the pen all the way down onto the injection site and hold in place. (Figure 8) 
This will insert the needle and start the injection. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 
You may hear a first “click” at the start of the injection. You will see the purple indicator start to move 
through the inspection window. (Figure 9) 
Figure 9 
first “click” 
Purple indicator 
Complete the injection 
Continue to hold the pen down until the purple indicator has stopped moving. You may hear a second “click" 
a few seconds before the purple indicator stops moving. (Figure 10) 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 
second “click” 
Then wait until… 
… purple indicator 
stops moving 
The injection may take up to 15 seconds to complete.  
•  When the injection is complete, lift the pen from the injection site. 
6. Dispose and inspect 
Dispose of the used pen 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not put the ring cap back onto the pen. 
Dispose of the used pen and ring cap in a container with a tight-fitting lid. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for instructions on how to properly dispose of a used pen or container 
of used pens. 
Do not recycle or throw the used pen, or container of used pens, in household waste. 
Inspect the injection site 
There may be a small amount of blood at the injection site.  
• 
• 
If needed, press a cotton ball or gauze pad on the injection site. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Benlysta 200 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
belimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.  
- 
- 
-  
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Benlysta is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Benlysta 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Benlysta is used 
Possible side effects 
How to store Benlysta 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Step-by-step instructions for using the pre-filled syringe 
1.  What Benlysta is and what it is used for 
Benlysta as a subcutaneous injection is a medicine used to treat lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus, SLE) 
in adults (18 years of age and older) whose disease is still highly active despite standard treatment. Benlysta is 
also used in combination with other medicines to treat adults with active lupus nephritis (lupus-related kidney 
inflammation). 
Lupus is a disease in which the immune system (the system that fights infection) attacks your own cells and 
tissues, causing inflammation and organ damage. It can affect almost any organ in the body, and is thought to 
involve a type of white blood cells called B cells.  
Benlysta contains belimumab (a monoclonal antibody). It reduces the number of B cells in your blood by 
blocking the action of BLyS, a protein that helps B cells to live longer and is found in high levels in people 
with lupus. 
You will be given Benlysta as well as your usual treatment for lupus. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Benlysta  
Do not use Benlysta  
• 
if you are allergic to belimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
➔  Check with your doctor if this may apply to you. 
84 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before you use Benlysta:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a current or long-term infection or if you often get infections. Your doctor will decide if 
you can be given Benlysta 
if you are planning to have a vaccination or have had a vaccination within the last 30 days. Some 
vaccines should not be given just before or during treatment with Benlysta 
if your lupus affects your nervous system 
if you are HIV positive or have low immunoglobulin levels 
if you have, or have had, hepatitis B or C 
if you have had an organ transplant, or a bone marrow or stem cell transplant 
if you have had cancer. 
➔  Tell your doctor if any of these may apply to you 
Depression and suicide 
There have been reports of depression, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts including suicide during 
treatment with Benlysta. Tell your doctor if you have a history of these conditions. If you experience new or 
worsening symptoms at any time: 
➔  Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
If you feel depressed or have thoughts of harming yourself or committing suicide, you may find it helpful to 
tell a relative or close friend and ask them to read this leaflet. You might ask them to tell you if they are 
worried about changes in your mood or behaviour. 
Look out for important symptoms 
People taking medicines that affect their immune system may be more at risk of infections, including a rare 
but serious brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
➔  Read the information ‘Increased risk of brain infection’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
To improve the traceability of this medicine, you and your healthcare provider should record the Benlysta lot 
number. It is recommended that you make a note of this information in case you are asked for it in the future. 
Children and adolescents  
Do not give Benlysta as a subcutaneous injection to children or adolescents younger than 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Benlysta 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines, if you have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular tell your doctor if you are being treated with medicines that affect your immune system, 
including any medicine that affects your B cells (to treat cancer or inflammatory diseases). 
Using such medicines in combination with Benlysta may make your immune system less effective. This 
could increase your risk of a serious infection. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Contraception in women of childbearing potential  
• 
Use an effective method of contraception while you are being treated with Benlysta and for at least 
4 months after the last dose. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy  
Benlysta is not usually recommended if you are pregnant.  
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby. 
Your doctor will decide if you can use Benlysta. 
If you become pregnant while being treated with Benlysta, tell your doctor. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. It is likely that Benlysta can pass into breast milk. Your doctor 
will discuss with you whether you should stop treatment with Benlysta while you are breast-feeding, or if 
you should stop breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines  
Benlysta can have side effects which may make you less able to drive or use machines. 
Important information about the contents of Benlysta  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, so it is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How Benlysta is used  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you to. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Benlysta should be injected under your skin on the same day each week. 
How much to use 
Adults (18 years of age and older) 
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 
The recommended dose is 200 mg (complete contents of one syringe) once a week. 
Lupus nephritis 
The recommended dose may vary. Your doctor will prescribe the right dose for you, which is either: 
• 
a dose of 200 mg (complete contents of one syringe) once a week. 
or 
• 
a dose of 400 mg (complete contents of two syringes in one day) once a week for 4 weeks. After this, 
the recommended dose is 200 mg (complete contents of one syringe) once a week. 
If you wish to change your dosing day 
Take a dose on the new day (even if it is less than a week since your last dose). Continue with the new 
weekly schedule from that day. 
Injecting Benlysta 
Your doctor or nurse will show you or your caregiver how to inject Benlysta. Your first injection with the 
Benlysta pre-filled syringe will be supervised by your doctor or nurse. After you have been trained on how to 
use the syringe, your doctor or nurse may decide that you can give yourself the injection, or your caregiver 
can give it to you. Your doctor or nurse will also tell you what signs and symptoms to look out for when 
using Benlysta, because serious allergic reactions can occur (see ‘Allergic reactions’ in section 4). 
You inject Benlysta under your skin in your stomach area (abdomen) or upper leg (thigh).  
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benlysta subcutaneous injection must not be injected into a vein (intravenously). 
Instructions for using the pre-filled syringe are given at the end of this leaflet. 
If you use more Benlysta than you should  
If this happens, immediately contact your doctor or nurse, who will monitor you for any signs or symptoms 
of side effects, and treat these symptoms if necessary. If possible show them the pack, or this leaflet.  
If you forget to use Benlysta 
Inject the missed dose as soon as you remember. Then continue with your normal weekly schedule as usual 
or start a new weekly schedule starting from the day you inject the missed dose.  
If you do not notice that you have missed a dose until it is already time for your next dose, then just inject 
this next dose as planned. 
Stopping treatment with Benlysta  
Your doctor will decide if you need to stop using Benlysta. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions — get medical help immediately 
Benlysta can cause a reaction to the injection, or an allergic (hypersensitivity) reaction. 
These are common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people). They can occasionally be severe 
(uncommon, affecting up to 1 in 100 people), and could be life-threatening. These severe reactions are more 
likely to happen on the day of your first or second treatment with Benlysta, but can be delayed and occur 
several days afterwards.  
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately, or go to the Emergency department of your nearest hospital, if 
you get any of the following symptoms of an allergic or injection-related reaction:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue 
wheezing, difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath 
rash 
itchy raised bumps or hives. 
Rarely, less severe delayed reactions to Benlysta can also occur, usually 5 to 10 days after an injection. 
They include symptoms such as rash, feeling sick, tiredness, muscle aches, headache, or facial swelling.  
If you experience these symptoms, particularly if you get two or more of them together: 
➔  Tell your doctor or nurse. 
Infections 
Benlysta can make you more likely to get infections, including infection of the urinary tract and airways. 
These are very common and may affect more than 1 in 10 people. Some infections can be severe and can 
uncommonly cause death. 
fever and/or chills 
cough, breathing problems 
If you get any of the following symptoms of an infection: 
• 
• 
•  diarrhoea, vomiting 
•  burning sensation while passing urine; urinating often 
•  warm, red or painful skin or sores on your body. 
➔  Tell your doctor or nurse immediately. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Depression and suicide 
There have been reports of depression, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts during treatment with 
Benlysta. Depression can affect up to 1 in 10 people, suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts can affect up to 
1 in 100 people. If you feel depressed, have thoughts about harming yourself or other distressing thoughts, or 
if you are depressed and notice that you feel worse or develop new symptoms: 
➔  Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
Increased risk of brain infection 
Medicines that weaken your immune system, such as Benlysta, can put you at higher risk of getting a rare 
but serious and life-threatening brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Symptoms of PML include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
memory loss 
trouble in thinking 
difficulty with talking or walking 
loss of vision. 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms, or similar problems that 
have lasted over several days. 
If you already had these symptoms before you started treatment with Benlysta: 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any changes in these symptoms. 
Other possible side effects: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
bacterial infections (see ‘Infections’ above). 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
high temperature or fever 
• 
injection site reactions, for example: rash, redness, itching or swelling of the skin where you have 
injected Benlysta 
itchy, bumpy rash (hives), skin rash 
low white blood cell count (can be seen in blood tests) 
nose, throat or stomach infection 
pain in hands or feet 
migraine 
feeling sick, diarrhoea. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Benlysta 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 C to 8 C). 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
A single Benlysta pre-filled syringe can be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum of 
12 hours – as long as it is protected from light. Once removed from the refrigerator, the syringe must be 
used within 12 hours or discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Benlysta contains 
The active ingredient is belimumab.  
Each 1 mL pre-filled syringe contains 200 mg belimumab. 
The other ingredients are arginine hydrochloride, histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate 80, 
sodium chloride, water for injections. See ‘Important information about the contents of Benlysta’ in section 2 
for further information. 
What Benlysta looks like and contents of the pack 
Benlysta is supplied as a 1 mL colourless to slightly yellow solution in a single use pre-filled syringe with a 
needle cap.  
Available in packs of 1 or 4 pre-filled syringes in each pack. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk  
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
Manufacturer  
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.P.A 
Strada Provinciale Asolana, 90 
43056 San Polo di Torrile 
Parma 
Italy 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 36044 8701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081100 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com 
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél.: + 33 (0)1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com  
România 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
Tel: + 40 800672524 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel:+ 385 800787089 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 386 80688869  
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741111 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com  
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 370 80000334 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
91 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step-by-step instructions for using the pre-filled syringe  
Once-Weekly 
Follow these instructions on how to use the pre-filled syringe correctly. Failure to follow these instructions 
may affect proper function of the pre-filled syringe. You should also receive training on how to use the pre-
filled syringe.  
Benlysta is for use under the skin only (subcutaneous). 
To improve the traceability of this medicine, you and your healthcare provider should record the Benlysta lot 
number. It is recommended that you make a note of this information in case you are asked for it in the future. 
Storage 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep refrigerated until 30 minutes before use. 
Keep in the carton in order to protect from light. 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not freeze. 
Do not use if left out at room temperature for more than 12 hours. 
Warnings 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The pre-filled syringe should be used only once and then discarded. 
Do not share your Benlysta pre-filled syringe with another person. 
Do not shake. 
Do not use if dropped onto a hard surface.  
Do not remove the needle cap until just before the injection. 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benlysta pre-filled syringe parts 
Before use 
Needle cap 
Body 
Plunger 
Needle 
Inspection 
window 
Finger grips 
After use — needle is covered by needle guard 
Needle guard 
activated 
Supplies you need for the injection 
Benlysta pre-filled syringe 
Alcohol swab 
(not included) 
Gauze pad or cotton 
wool ball 
(not included) 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Gather and check supplies 
Gather supplies 
• 
• 
Remove one sealed tray containing a pre-filled syringe from the refrigerator. 
Find a comfortable, well-lit and clean surface and place the following supplies within reach: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Benlysta pre-filled syringe 
alcohol swab (not included in the pack) 
gauze pad or cotton wool ball (not included in the pack) 
container with a tight-fitting lid for syringe disposal (not included in the pack). 
• 
Do not perform the injection if you do not have all the supplies listed. 
Check the expiry date 
• 
• 
Peel back the film of the tray and remove the pre-filled syringe by grasping the middle of the body. 
Check the expiry date on the pre-filled syringe. (Figure 1) 
Figure 1 
Exp: Month – Year 
Exp: Month – Year 
• 
Do not use if the expiry date has passed. 
2. Prepare and inspect the pre-filled syringe 
Allow to come to room temperature 
• 
Leave the syringe at room temperature for 30 minutes. (Figure 2) Injecting cold Benlysta may take 
longer and may be uncomfortable. 
Figure 2 
Wait 30 minutes 
min 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Do not warm the syringe in any other way. For example, do not warm it in a microwave oven, hot 
water or direct sunlight. 
Do not remove the needle cap during this step. 
Inspect the Benlysta solution 
• 
Look in the inspection window to check that the Benlysta solution is colourless to slightly yellow in 
colour. (Figure 3) 
It is normal to see one or more air bubbles in the solution. 
Figure 3 
Benlysta solution 
• 
Do not use if the solution looks cloudy, discoloured or has particles. 
3. Choose and clean the injection site 
Choose the injection site 
• 
Choose an injection site (abdomen or thigh) as seen in Figure 4. 
Figure 4 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you need 2 injections to complete your dose, leave at least 5 cm (2 inches) between each injection if 
using the same site.  
Do not inject into the exact same site each time. This is to avoid the skin becoming hardened. 
Do not inject in areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red or hard. 
Do not inject within 5 cm (2 inches) of the navel (belly button). 
Clean the injection site 
•  Wash your hands. 
• 
Clean the injection site by wiping it with an alcohol swab (Figure 5). Allow the skin to air dry.  
Figure 5 
• 
Do not touch this area again before giving the injection. 
4. Prepare for the injection 
• 
• 
• 
Do not remove the needle cap until immediately before the injection. 
Hold the prefilled syringe by the body, and with the needle facing away from you. (Figure 6a)  
Remove the needle cap by pulling it straight off. (Figure 6b) 
Figure 6 
a 
b 
You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle. This is normal. 
• 
Do not let the needle touch any surface. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Do not expel any air bubbles from the syringe. 
Do not put the needle cap back onto the syringe. 
5. Inject Benlysta 
Insert the needle 
• 
• 
• 
Hold the syringe in one hand.  
Use your free hand to gently pinch the skin around the injection site. (Figure 7) 
Insert the entire needle into the pinched area of the skin at a slight angle (45°), using a dart-like 
motion. 
Figure 7 
• 
After the needle is completely inserted, release the pinched skin. 
Complete the injection 
• 
Push the plunger all the way down until all of the solution is injected. (Figure 8) 
Figure 8 
Push the plunger all 
the way down 
Keeping hold of the syringe, slowly move your thumb back, allowing the plunger to rise up (Figure 9).  
The needle will automatically rise up into the needle guard.  
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 
Slowly move your 
thumb back 
6. Dispose and inspect 
Dispose of the used syringe 
• 
• 
• 
Dispose of the used syringe and needle cap in a container with a tight-fitting lid. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for instructions on how to properly dispose of a used syringe or 
container of used syringes. 
Do not recycle or throw the used syringe, or container of used syringes in household waste. 
Inspect the injection site 
There may be a small amount of blood at the injection site.  
• 
• 
If needed, press a cotton ball or gauze pad on the injection site. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Benlysta 120 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Benlysta 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
belimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.  
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Benlysta is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Benlysta 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How Benlysta is used 
Possible side effects 
How to store Benlysta 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Benlysta is and what it is used for 
Benlysta as an infusion is a medicine used to treat lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus, SLE) in adults and 
children (5 years of age and older) whose disease is still highly active despite standard treatment. Benlysta is 
also used in combination with other medicines to treat adults (18 years of age and older) with active lupus 
nephritis (lupus-related kidney inflammation). 
Lupus is a disease in which the immune system (the system that fights infection) attacks your own cells and 
tissues, causing inflammation and organ damage. It can affect almost any organ in the body, and is thought to 
involve a type of white blood cells called B cells.  
Benlysta contains belimumab (a monoclonal antibody). It reduces the number of B cells in your blood by 
blocking the action of BLyS, a protein that helps B cells to live longer and is found in high levels in people 
with lupus. 
You will be given Benlysta as well as your usual treatment for lupus. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Benlysta  
Do not receive Benlysta  
• 
if you are allergic to belimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
➔  Check with your doctor if this may apply to you. 
99 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before you are given Benlysta  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a current or long-term infection or if you often get infections (see section 4). Your doctor 
will decide if you can be given Benlysta 
if you are planning to have a vaccination or have had a vaccination within the last 30 days. Some 
vaccines should not be given just before or during treatment with Benlysta 
if your lupus affects your nervous system 
if you are HIV positive or have low immunoglobulin levels 
if you have, or have had, hepatitis B or C 
if you have had an organ transplant or a bone marrow or stem cell transplant 
if you have had cancer. 
➔  Tell your doctor if any of these may apply to you. 
Depression and suicide 
There have been reports of depression, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts including suicide during 
treatment with Benlysta. Tell your doctor if you have a history of these conditions. If you experience new or 
worsening symptoms at any time: 
➔  Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
If you feel depressed or have thoughts of harming yourself or committing suicide, you may find it helpful to 
tell a relative or close friend and ask them to read this leaflet. You might ask them to tell you if they are 
worried about changes in your mood or behaviour. 
Look out for important symptoms 
People taking medicines that affect their immune system may be more at risk of infections, including a rare 
but serious brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
➔  Read the information ‘Increased risk of brain infection’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
To improve the traceability of this medicine, your healthcare provider should record the Benlysta lot number 
in your patient file. You may also wish to make a note of this information in case you are asked for it in the 
future. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine is not intended for use in: 
• 
• 
children younger than 5 years of age with SLE 
children and adolescents (younger than 18 years of age) with active lupus nephritis. 
Other medicines and Benlysta 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines, if you have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular tell your doctor if you are being treated with medicines that affect your immune system, 
including any medicine that affects your B cells (to treat cancer or inflammatory diseases). 
Using such medicines in combination with Benlysta may make your immune system less effective. This 
could increase your risk of a serious infection. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Contraception in women of childbearing potential  
• 
Use an effective method of contraception while you are being treated with Benlysta and for at least 
4 months after the last dose. 
Pregnancy  
Benlysta is not usually recommended if you are pregnant.  
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby. 
Your doctor will decide if you can be given Benlysta. 
If you become pregnant while being treated with Benlysta, tell your doctor. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. It is likely that Benlysta can pass into breast milk. Your doctor 
will discuss with you whether you should stop treatment with Benlysta while you are breast-feeding, or if 
you should stop breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines  
Benlysta can have side effects which may make you less able to drive or use machines. 
Important information about the contents of Benlysta 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, so it is essentially sodium-free. 
3. 
How Benlysta is used  
A nurse or doctor will give you Benlysta through a drip in your vein (intravenous infusion) over one hour. 
Adults and children (5 years of age and older) 
Your doctor will decide on the correct dose depending on your body weight. The recommended dose is 
10 mg for each kilogram (kg) of your body weight. 
You are usually given Benlysta on the first day of treatment then again 14 and 28 days later. After this, 
Benlysta is usually given once every 4 weeks. 
Medicine given before an infusion 
Your doctor may decide to give you medicines which help to reduce any infusion reactions before you are 
given Benlysta. These may include a type of medicine called an anti-histamine and a medicine to prevent a 
high temperature. You will be checked closely and if you do have any reactions these will be treated. 
Stopping treatment with Benlysta  
Your doctor will decide if you need to stop being given Benlysta. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions — get medical help immediately 
Benlysta can cause a reaction to the infusion, or an allergic (hypersensitivity) reaction. 
These are common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people). They can occasionally be severe 
(uncommon, affecting up to 1 in 100 people), and could be life-threatening. These severe reactions are more 
likely to happen on the day of your first or second treatment with Benlysta, but can be delayed and occur 
several days afterwards.  
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately, or go to the Emergency department of your nearest hospital, if 
you get any of the following symptoms of an allergic or infusion reaction:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue 
wheezing, difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath 
rash 
itchy raised bumps or hives. 
Rarely, less severe delayed reactions to Benlysta can also occur, usually 5 to 10 days after an infusion. 
They include symptoms such as rash, feeling sick, tiredness, muscle aches, headache, or facial swelling.  
If you experience these symptoms, particularly if you get two or more of them together: 
➔  Tell your doctor or nurse. 
Infections 
Benlysta can make you more likely to get infections, including infection of the urinary tract and airways, 
younger children may be at increased risk. These are very common and may affect more than 1 in 10 people. 
Some infections can be severe and can uncommonly cause death. 
If you get any of the following symptoms of an infection: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fever and/or chills 
cough, breathing problems 
diarrhoea, vomiting 
burning sensation while passing urine; urinating often 
warm, red or painful skin or sores on your body. 
➔  Tell your doctor or nurse immediately. 
Depression and suicide 
There have been reports of depression, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts during treatment with 
Benlysta. Depression can affect up to 1 in 10 people, suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts can affect up to 
1 in 100 people. If you feel depressed, have thoughts about harming yourself or other distressing thoughts, or 
if you are depressed and notice that you feel worse or develop new symptoms: 
➔  Contact your doctor or go to a hospital straight away. 
Increased risk of brain infection 
Medicines that weaken your immune system, such as Benlysta, may put you at higher risk of getting a rare 
but serious and life-threatening brain infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Symptoms of PML include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
memory loss 
trouble in thinking 
difficulty with talking or walking 
loss of vision. 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms, or similar problems that 
have lasted over several days. 
If you already had these symptoms before you started treatment with Benlysta: 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any changes in these symptoms. 
Other possible side effects: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
bacterial infections (see ‘Infections’ above). 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
high temperature or fever 
• 
itchy, bumpy rash (hives), skin rash 
• 
low white blood cell count (can be seen in blood tests) 
• 
nose, throat or stomach infection 
• 
pain in hands or feet 
• 
migraine 
• 
feeling sick, diarrhoea. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Benlysta 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 C to 8 C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Benlysta contains 
• 
The active ingredient is belimumab.  
Each 5 mL vial contains 120 mg belimumab. 
Each 20 mL vial contains 400 mg belimumab. 
After reconstitution, the solution contains 80 mg belimumab per mL. 
• 
The other ingredients are citric acid monohydrate (E330), sodium citrate (E331), sucrose and 
polysorbate 80. See ‘Important information about the contents of Benlysta’ in section 2 for further 
information. 
What Benlysta looks like and contents of the pack 
Benlysta is supplied as a white to off-white powder for solution for infusion, in a glass vial with a siliconised 
rubber stopper and a flip-off aluminium seal. 
There is 1 vial in each pack. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited  
12 Riverwalk  
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
Manufacturer  
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.P.A.  
Strada Provinciale Asolana No. 90 
I-43056 San Polo di Torrile  
Parma  
Italy  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 36044 8701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 2081100 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com 
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél.: + 33 (0)1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com  
România 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 40 800672524 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel:+ 385 800787089 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 386 80688869 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com  
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741111 
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 370 80000334 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:  
Instructions for use and handling – reconstitution, dilution and administration 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
1)  How to reconstitute Benlysta 
Reconstitution and dilution needs to be carried out under aseptic conditions.  
Allow 10 to 15 minutes for the vial to warm to room temperature (15 C to 25 C). 
It is recommended that a 21-25 gauge needle be used when piercing the vial stopper for reconstitution and 
dilution. 
WARNING: The 5 mL and 20 mL vials are reconstituted with different volumes of diluent, see below: 
120 mg vial 
The 120 mg single-use vial of Benlysta is reconstituted with 1.5 mL of water for injections to yield a final 
concentration of 80 mg/mL belimumab.  
400 mg vial  
The 400 mg single-use vial of Benlysta is reconstituted with 4.8 mL of water for injections to yield a final 
concentration of 80 mg/mL belimumab.  
Amount of Benlysta 
Vial size 
Volume of diluent 
Final concentration 
120 mg 
400 mg 
5 mL 
20 mL 
1.5 mL 
4.8 mL 
80 mg/mL 
80 mg/mL 
The stream of water for injections should be directed toward the side of the vial to minimize foaming. Gently 
swirl the vial for 60 seconds. Allow the vial to sit at room temperature (15 C to 25 C) during 
reconstitution, gently swirling the vial for 60 seconds every 5 minutes until the powder is dissolved. Do not 
shake. Reconstitution is typically complete within 10 to 15 minutes after the water has been added, but it 
may take up to 30 minutes. Protect the reconstituted solution from sunlight. 
If a mechanical reconstitution device is used to reconstitute Benlysta it should not exceed 500 rpm and the 
vial should be swirled for no longer than 30 minutes. 
2) 
Before diluting Benlysta 
Once reconstitution is complete, the solution should be opalescent and colourless to pale yellow, and without 
particles. Small air bubbles, however, are expected and acceptable. 
120 mg vial 
After reconstitution, a volume of 1.5 mL (corresponding to 120 mg belimumab) can be withdrawn from each 
5 mL vial. 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
400 mg vial 
After reconstitution, a volume of 5 mL (corresponding to 400 mg belimumab) can be withdrawn from each 
20 mL vial. 
3)  How to dilute the solution for infusion 
The reconstituted medicinal product is diluted to 250 mL with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium 
chloride 4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection. For patients whose body weight is 
less than or equal to 40 kg, infusion bags with 100 mL of these diluents may be considered providing that the 
resulting belimumab concentration in the infusion bag does not exceed 4 mg/mL. 
5 % glucose intravenous solutions are incompatible with Benlysta and must not be used. 
From a 250 mL (or 100 mL) infusion bag or bottle of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium chloride 
4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection, withdraw and discard a volume equal to the 
volume of the reconstituted Benlysta solution required for the patient’s dose. Then add the required volume 
of the reconstituted Benlysta solution into the infusion bag or bottle. Gently invert the bag or bottle to mix 
the solution. Any unused solution in the vials must be discarded. 
Inspect the Benlysta solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard 
the solution if any particulate matter or discoloration is observed. 
The reconstituted solution, if not used immediately, should be protected from direct sunlight and stored 
refrigerated at 2 C to 8 C. Solutions diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %), sodium chloride 
4.5 mg/mL (0.45 %), or Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection may be stored at 2 C to 8 C or room 
temperature (15 C to 25 C). 
The total time from reconstitution of Benlysta to completion of infusion should not exceed 8 hours. 
4)  How to administer the diluted solution 
Benlysta is infused over a 1 hour period. 
Benlysta should not be infused concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents. 
No incompatibilities between Benlysta and polyvinylchloride or polyolefin bags have been observed. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
