Assessment report 
Benlysta 
International Non proprietary Name: belimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002015 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Benlysta 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Glaxo Group Limited 
Glaxo Wellcome House 
Berkeley Avenue 
Greenford, Middlesex UB6 0NN 
United Kingdom 
Active substance: 
belimumab   
International Non-proprietary Name: 
belimumab 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Selective immunosuppressants  
(L04AA26) 
Therapeutic indication: 
Add-on therapy in adult patients with active 
autoantibody-positive systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease 
activity (e.g. positive anti-dsDNA and low 
complement) despite standard therapy. 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Strengths: 
120 mg and 400 mg 
Route of administration: 
Intravenous use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) 
Package size: 
1 vial  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 2/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 9 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .............................................................................. 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects............................. 12 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 13 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 14 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 14 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 16 
2.3.4. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 17 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 23 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 23 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 24 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 24 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 24 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 26 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 31 
2.4.4. Discussion and conslusion clinical pharmacology ................................................ 32 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 33 
2.5.1. Dose response studies.................................................................................... 33 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................. 34 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 59 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 64 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 65 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 81 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 81 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 82 
2.8. Benefit-risk balance.......................................................................................... 88 
2.8.1. Discussion on the benefit-risk balance .............................................................. 93 
2.8.2. Risk management plan................................................................................... 94 
2.8.3. Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products.......................................... 94 
2.8.4. Market exclusivity.......................................................................................... 94 
2.8.5. Significance of paediatric studies ..................................................................... 94 
2.8.6. Conformity with agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan .......................................... 94 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 94 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 3/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
aCl 
ACR 
ADA 
ADME 
AE 
ALT 
ANA 
ANC 
ANOVA 
APTT 
ARISg 
AST 
ATC 
BILAG 
BLyS 
BLA 
BMI 
Bpm 
BUN 
CBER 
CCP 
CDIR 
CI 
CL 
CMV 
CNS 
COPD 
CRD 
CRP 
CSR 
CT 
dL 
DMARD 
DMC 
DMID 
dsDNA 
ECG 
ECL 
ELISA 
EMA 
EOP2 
ER 
FDA 
G 
GGT 
GLP 
hERG 
HGS 
HLGT 
HLT 
HMG-CoA 
HSR 
ICH 
anticardiolipin (antibody) 
American College of Rheumatology 
anti-drug antibodies 
absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion 
adverse event 
alanine transaminase 
antinuclear antibody 
absolute neutrophil count 
analysis of variance 
activated partial thromboplastin time 
Adverse Reaction Information System – Global (HGS safety 
database) 
aspartate transaminase 
Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical classification system 
British Isles Lupus Assessment Group 
B lymphocyte stimulator protein 
Biologics Licensing Application 
body mass index 
beats per minute 
blood urea nitrogen 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research 
cyclic citrullinated peptide 
cytokine-dependent infusion reaction 
confidence interval 
total body clearance of drug 
Cytomegalovirus 
central nervous system 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
controlled repeat dose 
C-reactive protein 
clinical study report 
computed tomography 
Deciliter 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
data monitoring committee 
Division of Microbiology and Infectious Disease 
double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid 
Electrocardiogram 
Electrochemiluminescence 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
European Medicines Agency 
End of Phase 2 
emergency room 
Food and Drug Administration 
Gram 
gamma-glutamyl transferase 
Good Laboratory Practice 
human ether-a-go-go related-gene 
Human Genome Sciences 
high level group term 
high level term 
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A 
hypersensitivity reaction 
International Conference on Harmonization 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 4/94
 
 
 
 
Ig 
INN 
IS 
ITT 
IU 
IV 
Kg 
LDH 
LLN 
LLOQ 
LOD 
LRTI 
Mcg 
MedDRA 
Mg 
MITT 
mL 
MMF 
mmHg 
MRT 
MTX 
NMSC 
NSAID 
NSCLC 
PGA 
PK 
PT 
PTT 
RA 
RBC 
RF 
RR 
SAE 
SC 
SELENA 
SLE 
SLEDAI 
SLICC 
SMQ 
SNF 
SOC 
SS 
TNF 
TQT 
ULN 
URTI 
US 
USAN 
UTI 
TK 
V2 
Vss 
WBC 
WHO 
WM 
Immunoglobulin 
International Nonproprietary Name 
Immunosuppressant 
intention-to-treat 
international units 
Intravenous 
Kilogram 
lactic dehydrogenase 
lower limit of normal 
lower limit of quantification 
limit of detection 
lower respiratory tract infection 
Microgram 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Milligram 
modified intent-to treat 
Milliliter 
mycophenolate mofetil 
millimeters of mercury 
mean residence time following intravenous dosing 
Methotrexate 
non-melanoma skin cancer 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
non-small cell lung cancer 
Physician Global Assessment 
Pharmacokinetics 
prothrombin time 
partial thromboplastin time 
rheumatoid arthritis 
red blood cell (count) 
rheumatoid factor 
relative risk 
serious adverse event 
Subcutaneous 
Safety of Estrogen in Lupus National Assessment 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index 
Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics 
Standardised MedDRA Query 
skilled nursing facility 
system organ class 
Sjögren’s syndrome 
tumor necrosis factor 
thorough QT 
upper limit of normal 
upper respiratory tract infection 
United States 
United States Adopted Name 
urinary tract infection 
Toxicokinetic 
volume of distribution for the peripheral compartment 
volume of distribution at steady-state 
white blood cell (count) 
World Health Organization 
Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 5/94
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Glaxo  Group  Limited  submitted  on  4  June  2010  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Benlysta, through the centralised procedure 
falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of active, autoantibody-positive systemic 
lupus erythematosus (SLE). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
New active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/254/2009 for the following conditions:  
  Systemic lupus erythematosus 
On the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP), the granting of a deferral and the 
granting of a product-specific waiver. 
  Systemic lupus erythematosus 
The PIP is not yet completed. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 28 June 2006 and 30 May 2008. The 
Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder   
Co-Rapporteur: Arantxa Sancho-Lopez 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 6/94
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 June 2010. 
The procedure started on 23 June 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 September 
2010. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 
September 2010. 
  During the meeting on 21 October 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 21 
October 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 17 December 
2010. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 28 January 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 17 February the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 14 March 2011. 
  During a meeting of an ad hoc Expert group on 30 March 2011, experts were convened to address 
questions raised by the CHMP. 
  During the meeting on 16-19 May 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Benlysta on 19 May 2011. The applicant provided on 19 April 2011 the letter of 
undertaking on the post-authorisation measures to be completed. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease which is characterized clinically 
by arthralgia, arthritis, skin rashes, serositis, hematologic abnormalities, central nervous system (CNS) 
dysfunction and renal inflammation. SLE is approximately 10 times more common in women than men, 
and more prevalent in African-Americans than Caucasians. The onset of disease is generally between 
15 and 44 years of age. 
Characteristic immunologic abnormalities include the presence of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), highly 
specific antibodies to double-stranded DNA (ds-DNA) and the Smith antigen (Sm) in serum. Patients 
often exhibit complement activation including the presence of circulating complement split products 
and depressed level of C3 and C4 complement in the serum. 
Hydroxychloroquine and corticosteroids are currently licensed in the European Union (EU) for use in 
SLE; however, there have been no new therapies for the treatment of SLE approved in recent decades. 
Standard-of-care (SOC) therapy for SLE typically begins with antimalarials (e.g. hydroxychloroquine) 
that are often combined with corticosteroids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 
which help control mucocutaneous and joint involvement. Immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory 
agents such as azathioprine, leflunomide, methotrexate, mycophenolate mofetil, cyclophosphamide, 
and cyclosporine are also frequently used for the treatment of SLE, typically for more severe or more 
active disease that is not adequately controlled. For severe or refractory disease combinations of 
therapies are also commonly used. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 7/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The drugs used to treat SLE themselves are associated with additional risks and substantial adverse 
effects and complications. The chronic use of corticosteroids is associated with Cushingoid syndrome, 
increased risk of opportunistic infections, and the development of osteoporosis. The limitation of 
chronic use of CS is generally considered of great clinical value in SLE management. Thus, there is 
substantial unmet medical need for newer, more-effective and better-tolerated therapies for the 
treatment of SLE. 
About the product 
Benlysta contains belimumab as an active substance, a recombinant human IgG1λ monoclonal 
antibody that binds to and inhibits the biological activity of soluble human B-lymphocyte stimulator 
(BLyS). In humans, soluble BLyS is biologically active and produced primarily by monocytes and 
activated neutrophils. The primary function of BLyS is the promotion of B-lymphocyte survival and 
differentiation. 
The expected pharmacologic effects of inhibiting BLyS in autoimmune disease such as SLE would be 
the reduction in selected B-cell subsets and autoantibodies and normalization of immunoglobulin and 
complement levels. The effects on these important biological markers of SLE activity are expected to 
be followed by clinical effects including reductions in disease activity, risk of flare, and steroid use. 
The initially proposed indication for Benlysta was: “Reducing disease activity in adult patients with 
active, autoantibody positive, systemic lupus erythematosus who are receiving standard therapy”. 
The approved indication is: “Benlysta is indicated as add-on therapy in adult patients with active, 
autoantibody-positive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease activity (e.g 
positive anti dsDNA and low complement) despite standard therapy”. 
The recommended dose regimen is 10 mg/kg Benlysta on Day 0, 14 and 28, and at 4-weeks intervals 
thereafter. The patient’s condition should be evaluated continuously. Discontinuation of treatment with 
Benlysta should be considered if there is no improvement in disease control after 6 months of 
treatment. 
Type of application and aspects of development 
The clinical development program for Benlysta to support the efficacy in the treatment of SLE at the 
proposed dose of 10 mg/kg included one Phase 2 and two Phase 3 studies conducted in patients with 
active SLE. 
Regulatory advice was received from the European Medicines Agency on clinical, non-clinical and CMC 
aspects of the development programme on 30th June 2006. Follow on scientific advice in relation to 
nonclinical and CMC issues was received on 30th May 2008. 
There are currently no EMA/CHMP Guidelines for the clinical development of products in this indication.  
A Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) was agreed for the condition systemic lupus erythematosus which 
is not yet complete. This includes a study in paediatric SLE patients from 5 to less than 18 years; a 
deferral for some or all studies contained in the PIP was agreed. For children from birth to less than 5 
years a waiver was agreed. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 8/94
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The active substance belimumab is a human IgG1λ monoclonal antibody. Belimumab binds to soluble 
human B Lymphocyte Stimulator (BLyS), a B-cell survival factor, and prevents BLyS binding to its 
receptor on mature B-cells, thus inhibiting B-cell survival, including autoreactive B cells. 
Benlysta is presented as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. One vial (single use) 
contains 120 mg or 400 mg of belimumab formulated with citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate 
dihydrate, sucrose and polysorbate 80. Prior to administration, the 120 mg/vial and 400 mg/vial 
configurations should be reconstituted with 1.5 mL and 4.8 mL of sterile water for injections, 
respectively, resulting in 1.7 mL (1.5 mL deliverable) and 5.4 mL (5.0 mL deliverable), respectively, of 
reconstituted 80 mg/mL belimumab. The reconstituted solution is diluted to 250 ml with 0.9% normal 
saline for IV infusion. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Description of the active substance 
Belimumab consists of 2 heavy chains, and 2 light chains of the lambda subclass. Each heavy chain 
contains 452 amino acid residues and each light chain contains 214 amino acid residues. There are 3 
post-translational modifications: a conserved N-linked glycosylation on the CH2 domain of the heavy 
chain, the conversion of the N-terminal glutamine residue of the heavy chain into pyroglutamate, and 
loss of C-terminal lysine residue of the heavy chain.  
Belimumab contains 32 cysteine residues (10 in the 2 light chains and 22 in the 2 heavy chains), all of 
which participate in 4 inter-chain disulfide bonds and 12 intra-chain disulfide bonds for a total of 16 
disulfide bonds. Disulfide linkages in belimumab are identical to the native wild-type human IgG1 
antibody. 
Carbohydrates on the N-linked glycosylation site are core-fucosylated, biantennary, complex-type 
oligosaccharides, as expected from IgG1 antibodies produced from NS0 cell lines.  
Manufacture 
Belimumab  is  produced  in  a  NS0  cell  line  using  a  serum-free  production  medium.  The  purification 
process  comprises  a  series  of  chromatographic  steps,  viral  inactivation  and  filtration  steps, 
concentration/diafiltration  and  formulation.  The  purified  bulk  active  substance  is  filled  in  storage 
containers and shipped to the finished product manufacturing site. 
Development genetics 
Belimumab  is  a  human  IgG1λ  monoclonal  antibody  produced  from  a  recombinant  NS0  cell line  stably 
transfected with the belimumab heavy chain and light chain genes. 
Cell banking system 
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  was 
developed and maintained in accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 9/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedures followed for the preparation of MCB and WCB were described. An extensive range of tests 
was  performed  for  their  characterisation,  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines,  including  identity, 
viability, stability, presence of adventitious agents. 
Fermentation and purification process  
Cell culture (serum-free production medium) and harvest processes occur in several stages that 
expand the cells followed by a production scale bioreactor stage, wherein belimumab accumulates in 
the bioreactor. After recovery of the belimumab containing supernatant, belimumab is purified by a 
series of chromatography and filtrations steps that includes inactivation and filtration of putative 
viruses. Belimumab is formulated with excipients at a specified concentration and filtered into bulk 
active substance containers.  
Reprocessing is allowed after either viral filtration or bulk filtering. 
Shipping to the fill-finish site is by a refrigerated truck (2-8°C) and typical shipping duration is 24 
hours. Product temperature is maintained (≤ -40°C) during shipping. Shipping procedures are 
performed under validated conditions. 
Process validation 
Process validation studies were executed at both commercial- and small-scale. All small-scale 
validation studies, where appropriate, were performed subsequent to qualification studies that 
demonstrated the utility of the scale-down model. All assays used to generate data in support of 
process validation were either qualified or validated for their intended use. All non-compendial in-
process control and bulk active substance release assays used for the analysis of conformance lots 
were validated and compendial assays were qualified. 
Process validation activities for belimumab occurred under the direction of a Process Validation Master 
Plan. This document summarized the overall approach to process validation including sections on 
documentation, the role of process characterization, status of all assays used, scale of validation and a 
description of the intended studies that comprise upstream and downstream process validation. 
Manufacturing process development 
Several bulk active substance manufacturing processes were used during the course of development. 
The proposed commercial process supplied a portion of the Phase 3 clinical program. The main 
changes over the course of the manufacturing process development have been with respect to process 
scale, cell culture process mode, and cell bank used. Two formulations were used during the course of 
development. Material from each of the manufacturing processes and both formulations were used in 
nonclinical and clinical studies.  
Conformance lots for the belimumab commercial manufacturing process validation were executed 
according to the manufacturing batch records, the cell culture and primary recovery process validation 
protocol, the purification process validation protocol, and the Process Validation Master Plan. 
It was demonstrated that the process consistently maintains process parameters within specified 
ranges and meets pre-established acceptance criteria for performance indicators. 
Characterisation 
A) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 10/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A1) Physicochemical characterisation: 
Physicochemical  characterisation  of  belimumab  active  substance  consists  of  a  variety  of  state-of-the-
art  analytical  procedures.  The  primary  structure  of  belimumab  was  characterised  with  respect  to  its 
amino  acid  composition,  monosaccharide  composition,  terminal  sequences,  complete  sequence 
verification, disulfide linkage and post-translational modifications, including glycosylation and attached 
glycan structures. The overall integrity of the primary structure was assessed by peptide mapping and 
mass spectrometry. The secondary structure was evaluated by circular dichroism in the far UV region 
and  Fourier  Transform  Infrared  spectroscopy.  The  tertiary  structure  was  evaluated  by  fluorescence 
spectroscopy,  ultraviolet  light  spectroscopy  (UV)  and  differential  scanning  calorimetry.  Quaternary 
structure and hydrodynamic properties were evaluated by analytical ultracentrifugation (AUC). 
Belimumab is an IgG1 antibody which contains a conserved N-linked glycosylation site on the CH2 
domain of each heavy chain at asparagine-303. Complete characterisation of the glycan distribution 
and glycan structures were given.  
Product-related variants such as sialic acid, lysine, deamidation, oxidation variants were investigated. 
A2) Biological characterisation: 
The biological activity of belimumab is assessed via its interaction with soluble BLyS in an in vitro cell 
based binding assay.  
The  in  vitro  binding  characteristics  of  belimumab  have  been  assessed  using  solid-phase  ELISA, 
quantitative binding analyses, flow cytometric analyses, and cell-based functional assays. 
B) Impurities 
Potential  process-related  impurities  include  cell  substrate  derived  impurities  (host  cell  proteins,  host 
cell DNA), media components, downstream-derived impurities. 
Product-related impurities include aggregates, fragments and crosslinked variants (covalent crosslinks 
of light to heavy chains). 
Product-related substances include the following variants: lysine, deamidation, sulfhydryl groups, 
methionine oxidation. 
Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and temperature storage conditions, 
are in accordance with current guidelines. The tests chosen are a subset of tests from the release 
specifications selected for stability-indicating properties.  
The stability data provided were within the specifications and support the proposed shelf life for the 
active substance when stored at ≤-40°C protected from light. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant negative 
trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Belimumab  active  substance  is  formulated  with  citric  acid  monohydrate,  sodium  citrate  dihydrate, 
sucrose and polysorbate 80.  
There is no overage of drug substance in the belimumab dosage form or overage in the manufacture of 
the drug product. 
The drug product manufacturing process evolved during clinical development based on the product 
formulation, the required scale of manufacturing, the container closure configuration appropriate for 
progressing through clinical development, and the manufacturing site selected for manufacture of the 
finished product. Changes included new manufacturing facilities, change to the bulk active substance 
container, change to the finished product formulation before initiating Phase 3 clinical studies, change 
to the drug product concentration, fill volume, vial size and lyophilisation cycle parameters. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 11/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adventitious agents 
Serum-free and animal source-free media are used throughout the master cell bank and working cell 
bank  preparation,  and  the  manufacturing  process.  Several  raw  materials  are  derived  from  plant 
sources. Two cell culture raw materials contain components derived from animal origins. 
The  TSE  risk  evaluation  is  acceptable  and  in  line  with  Note  for  Guidance  on  “Minimizing  the  Risk  of 
Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Products” 
(EMA/410/01 Rev. 2). 
The  belimumab  end-of-production  cell  line  is  deemed  to  be  free  of  adventitious  agents  and  microbial 
contamination.  However,  as  expected  for  a  NS0  cell  line,  retrovirus-like  particles  are  detected  in  the 
cell bank. The level though is within the virus removal capacity of the purification process. 
The manufacturing process effectively removes enveloped and non-enveloped viruses as shown in the 
presented virus clearance studies. The results were considered acceptable.  
Risk  assessment  calculations  were  made  based  on  the  results  of  the  viral  clearance  study  with  the 
XMuLV as model virus. The results were considered acceptable. 
The  viral  safety  of  the  product  has  been  studied  in  line  with  ICH  Q5A  guideline.  The  results  obtained 
were considered satisfactory and show a good viral safety profile for the product. 
Manufacture of the product 
The finished product manufacturing process comprises several steps, including dilution of the bulk 
active substance,  filtration steps, sterile filtration (0.22 μm), filling into Type I glass vials and partial 
stopper placement (latex-free, siliconised rubber), lyophilisation and stoppering, sealing (flip-off 
aluminium), capping, inspection of vials, labelling and packaging. 
For process validation, conformance lots were manufactured at commercial scale. They met acceptance 
criteria as defined in the validation protocol, demonstrating that the manufacturing process is robust 
and consistently yields product capable of meeting pre defined quality characteristics. The finished 
product manufacturing, including lyophilisation, transport and holding times, was considered 
sufficiently validated. 
Stability of the product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and per 
protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of the finished product. On the basis of 
the data provided, the proposed shelf life for the finished product is 36 months at 2-8°C. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
No Major Objection on Quality aspects was identified during the evaluation of Benlysta. 
Active substance 
The procedures applied for the establishment of the master and working cell banks were adequately 
described. The cell banks were extensively and adequately characterised.  
The active substance manufacturing process is standard for this class of products and is considered 
state of the art. It is well defined and the controls in places have been adequately justified and are 
considered appropriate.  
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 12/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Reprocessing is supported by data from a small scale validation study showing that quality was not 
compromised by one additional filtration. The applicant committed to monitor the first reprocessed 
commercial batch according to the commercial cGMP stability protocol. 
The active substance commercial manufacturing process has been carefully validated with respect to 
all relevant parameters and good consistency has been shown. 
Several early manufacturing processes were used during the course of process and clinical 
development. The whole development process is well described with changes presented sequentially. 
Comparability studies have been performed to demonstrate that the changes had no major impacts on 
the quality of belimumab active substance. A bridging pharmacokinetic study in vivo was performed to 
complement the comparability study. 
Belimumab was extensively characterised using state-of-the-art methods, resulting in a detailed 
description of belimumab antibody, product-related substances and impurities as well as process-
related impurities. The details of the characterisation demonstrated a well documented substance of 
high quality with low levels of impurities/related substances. Glycosylation of the antibody was also 
described in detail revealing common mouse patterns with a N-linked glycosylation site on the heavy 
chain. Apart from the usual variants G0, G1 and G2, other non-human glycosylation was detected.  
Although the applicant claimed that the mechanism of action of belimumab does not involve the Fc 
region, it was considered necessary to perform a functional characterisation to determine the 
contribution of this part of the molecule.  
A subset of the characterisation tests were chosen for release control. The proposed test panel is 
extensive and includes most relevant critical quality attributes. However, it was proposed to include 
additional tests for the control of belimumab active substance. 
Long-term stability studies support the proposed shelf-life when stored at ≤-40°C protected from light. 
Viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents including TSE are sufficiently assured  
A pre-approval inspection was conducted at the proposed manufacturing facilities. EU-GMP compliance 
of these facilities was confirmed. 
Finished product 
Pharmaceutical development of the finished product has been adequately described. 
The finished product manufacturing process is well described and adequately validated. 
Several minor changes were made to the process between the early clinical phase (Phase 1/2), Phase 
3 including a change of formulation buffer. In addition, during Phase 3 and in preparation for 
commercial production, the lyophilization process was scaled up. 
All non compendial analytical methods have been validated and are the same as those used for release 
of the active substance. Compendial methods used for release of the finished product have been 
qualified (most of them also used for the drug substance). Control of finished product was considered 
appropriate.  
The proposed shelf-life of 36 months at 2-8°C for the finished product is supported by the provided 
stability data. 
In-use stability studies were conducted. The total time from reconstitution of Benlysta to completion of 
infusion should not exceed 8 hours. In addition, belimumab finished product is compatible with 
polyvinylchloride and polyolefin IV bags containing normal saline with tubing for intraveneous delivery; 
but it is not compatible with 5% dextrose IV diluent solution. The use of an in-line filter or peristaltic 
pump was shown to have no impact on product quality. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 13/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The  different  aspects  of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation  comply  with 
existing guidelines. The fermentation and purification of the active substance are adequately described, 
controlled and validated. The active substance is well characterised with regard to its physicochemical 
and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of-the-art  methods,  and  appropriate  specifications  are  set. 
The manufacturing process of the finished product has been satisfactorily described and validated. The 
quality  of  the  finished  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and  specifications.  Viral  safety 
and  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  including  TSE  have  been  sufficiently  assured.  CHMP 
recommended addressing a number of points post-approval. 
The overall Quality of Benlysta is considered acceptable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Belimumab is a human IgG1λ monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to soluble human B 
Lymphocyte Stimulator (BLyS), a B-cell survival factor, and prevents BLyS binding to its receptor on 
mature B-cells, thus inhibiting B-cell survival. 
The nonclinical program for belimumab was conducted with consideration of the applicable 
recommendations given in the International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) and CHMP guidance 
documents, with specific consideration of ICH S6 (Preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology-derived 
pharmaceuticals) guideline. Regulatory advice was received from the European Medicines Agency on 
the development programme. 
The primary pharmacodynamics of belimumab has been addressed in a series of studies in vitro and in 
mice in vivo. In addition, the repeated dose toxicology studies in monkeys included pharmacodynamic 
measures related to the pharmacological mechanism of belimumab.  
The proposed commercial final finished product is a sterile, lyophilized powder to be reconstituted with 
sterile water for injection (WFI), for intravenous infusion. The product is to be diluted in normal saline 
and administered by intravenous (IV) infusion over 1 hour.  
The pivotal preclinical studies were conducted in compliance with GLP. The other preclinical studies 
were conducted in accordance with GLP principles. 
Throughout the dossier, belimumab is also referred to as GSK1550188 or HGS1006. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
BLyS Biology 
B-lymphocyte stimulator protein (BLyS), the target of belimumab, is a cytokine and member of the 
tumour necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family and a potent stimulator of B-lymphocytes. The BLyS gene 
encodes a 285 amino acid, type II membrane-bound protein expressed on cells of myeloid origin, 
including normal monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells (Moore et al, 1999; Schneider et al, 
1999). Cleavage of membrane-bound BLyS results in a soluble 152 amino acid BLyS protein, and the 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 14/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
predominant biologically active BLyS is a 51 kDa homotrimer consisting of three 152 amino acid 
peptide chains. 
BLyS has been shown to bind three membrane bound receptors: transmembrane activator and CAML-
interactor (TACI), B cell maturation antigen (BCMA), and B cell activating factor belonging to TNF 
family-receptor (BAFF-R)/BLyS receptor-3 (BR3), localized primarily on B lymphocytes (Gross et al, 
2000; Xia et al, 2000; Yan et al, 2000; Yan et al, 2001b; Thompson et al, 2001). 
The biological activity of BLyS coupled with the knowledge that BLyS is upregulated in patients with 
SLE provided the rationale for the development of belimumab as a therapy for SLE. Ex vivo studies 
with serum and synovial fluid from autoimmune patients have demonstrated that BLyS levels in 
autoimmune patient populations are significantly higher than those observed in normal healthy 
controls. Elevated BLyS levels have been found to be positively correlated with elevated anti dsDNA, 
IgG, and SLE disease activity. Therefore, belimumab by antagonizing BLyS activity and inhibiting BLyS-
induced stimulation of B lymphocyte proliferation and antibody secretion, may provide therapeutic 
benefit in the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as SLE. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The expression profile of BLyS was assessed by Northern blot and flow cytometric analyses. BLyS in 
the form of a single 2.6 kb mRNA was readily detected in human PBMC (human peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells), spleen, lymph node, and bone marrow with lower, but detectable expression in 
placenta, heart, lung, fetal liver, thymus and pancreas. BLyS mRNA was also detected in HL-60 and K-
562 monocytic cell lines. In summary, cell-surface BLyS expression was detected only on cells of 
monocytic/myeloid origin including HL-60, K-562, and THP-1 cells. 
BLyS binding was detectable only on CD20+ cells, indicating that BLyS receptors are found on B cells 
but no on the other lineages. The studies also showed that BLyS receptor expression levels are 
comparable between human, monkey and mouse PBMC. BR-3 is generally considered the main 
receptor for BLyS and is first expressed on immature B cells through the activated B-cell stage, but is 
downregulated on plasma cells which instead express BCMA. 
The potential of belimumab to bind to the membrane bound form was assessed in K-562 cells (human 
chronic myelogenous leukemia) and on human PBMCs. Belimumab showed no binding to membrane 
bound BLyS in these experiments.  
Belimumab binds to soluble BLyS with high affinity and possesses a slow dissociation rate. This was 
shown by ELISA and BIAcore technology. The binding affinity to human BLyS showed a Kd value of 
about 0.2 nM and similar affinity was seen to monkey BLyS. In addition, belimumab was also 
demonstrated to bind to mouse BLyS but with a 10-fold lower affinity as compared to human and 
monkey BLyS. Belimumab was shown to be specific for binding to BLyS but not to other TNF ligand 
members (APRIL, TL1A, LIGHT, TNFα, TNFβ, FasL).  
Belimumab was able to inhibit BLyS-BLyS receptor interaction for all three specific human BLyS 
receptors (TACI, BR3 and BCMA) with IC 50 values ranged from 52 to 97 nM. The downstream effects of 
this inhibition include decreased splenocyte and tonsillar B-cell proliferation and decreased 
immunoglobulin levels, which were also shown in vitro. The in vivo studies in mice as well as in 
monkeys demonstrated that belimumab inhibits splenocyte proliferation and decreased the number of 
B-cells in spleen, lymph node and circulating B cells.  
In a central scientific advice, it was requested that the Applicant provided data on the binding of 
belimumab to soluble and membrane bound BLyS in cynomolgus monkeys, to fully characterise the 
relevance of monkey as a model used in the preclinical studies. The Applicant has provided data 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 15/94
 
 
 
 
showing almost identical affinity of belimumab for human and cynomolgus soluble BLyS and similar 
pharmacological effects in monkeys and humans.  
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Tissue cross-reactivity 
A tissue binding study was performed to evaluate the potential cross-reactivity of belimumab with a 
panel of human and monkey tissues (for details see section on Tissue cross reactivity study below). 
The absence of belimumab tissues cross-reactivity in this study suggests that there is a limited chance 
of belimumab to produce secondary pharmacology as a result of off-target tissue binding.  
No further studies were conducted to specifically investigate secondary pharmacodynamic effects of 
belimumab. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No specific safety pharmacology studies were conducted due to the high specificity of belimumab for its 
target. In accordance with the Guideline CHMP/ICH/539/00, the Applicant included safety 
pharmacology assessments in three GLP studies in cynomolgus monkeys. In each of these studies, 
belimumab was generally safe and well tolerated and no abnormalities were attributable to belimumab. 
No changes in general behavioural, clinical observations or respiration were noted in any of the three 
studies that raised any specific cause for concerns. Therefore, the Applicant’s justification for not 
performing a specific safety pharmacology study was considered acceptable. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Belimumab is a monoclonal antibody with high specificity and affinity, and hence no non-clinical studies 
were undertaken to examine potential pharmacodynamic drug interactions. However, the Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with SLE were designed to evaluate belimumab in the setting of 
standard of care therapy for SLE. In these trials, subjects received a wide range of concomitant SLE 
medications including corticosteroids, anti malarials, and other immunosuppressants (e.g., 
methotrexate or mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)). Special attention was paid to the incidence of adverse 
events (AE) that may be related to enhanced immunosuppression such as infection and cancer. AEs in 
subjects with baseline use of prednisone and immunosuppressants were generally comparable between 
placebo and belimumab treatment groups (see Clinical aspects). 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Levels of belimumab in serum from mice and monkeys were measured by enzyme linked 
immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). Initially, the pharmacokinetic (PK) ELISA assay for analysing 
belimumab in serum was not validated. However, the later validated method showed comparable 
values of PK parameters in later studies as determined in the early PK studies. This was considered 
acceptable for CHMP. 
The pharmacokinetics of belimumab following single intravenous (IV) administration to cynomolgus 
monkeys were shown to be biphasic and dose proportional over the range of doses tested (up to 
150 mg/kg) and there were no significant differences in the serum concentrations between males and 
females. The mean steady-state volumes of distribution (Vss) in monkeys range from 67-126 ml/kg 
which is in agreement with the low volume of distribution seen in humans (69-112 ml/kg). This is less 
than the extracellular fluid volume (170-210 ml/kg including plasma), indicating that belimumab 
localizes primarily in the plasma compartment and the interstitial fluid spaces of more permeable 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 16/94
 
 
 
 
tissues. Likewise the CL in human and monkey was low (5.5-7.3 ml/kg/day) indicating little clearance 
by renal routes as judged in relation to the glomerular filtration rate (monkeys~3000 ml/kg/day, 
Schaer et al, 1990; Davies and Morris, 1993). The terminal half life was long, ranging from 7 to 16 
days in monkeys and from 8.5 to 14 days in humans. Toxicokinetic parameters measured following 
intravenous repeat dosing were comparable to those derived from the IV single dose studies and no 
apparent gender-related differences in exposure were observed following repeated IV dosing. 
Detectable, treatment emergent anti-belimumab antibodies were identified in 12 out of 124 monkeys 
across nonclinical studies. Of these, 6 monkeys had reduced belimumab serum concentrations. Since 
the method for detecting antibodies was impacted of belimumab in the serum, the presence of an 
altered PK profile was used as an indirect measure of the presence of neutralizing antibodies.  
Given the biological nature of belimumab, no studies of metabolism and excretion have been 
performed. Generally the expected consequence of metabolism of monoclonal antibodies is the 
degradation to small peptides and individual amino acids. Accordingly, biotransformation studies are 
not needed. The applicants justification for the absence of data on metabolism and excretion was 
acceptable for CHMP and in accordance with the note for guidance on the preclinical safety evaluation 
of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (ICH S6; CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
In reproductive toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys, belimumab was detected in infant umbilical 
cord blood at approximately ¼ of the levels in maternal serum on GD150, showing that belimumab is 
able to cross the placenta. About 180 days after birth belimumab was no longer detectable in infant 
serum. Belimumab was also detected in a few samples of milk indicating that belimumab is excreted in 
breast milk and might thus be transferred to the suckling infant. 
The cynomolgus monkey was determined as the most relevant species for toxicology studies based on 
both pharmacology and pharmacokinetic studies. The pharmacokinetic data in monkeys indicated no 
significant difference in systemic exposure and pharmacokinetic parameters compared to humans. 
Furthermore, there were no significant different in the systemic exposure of non-pregnant or pregnant 
animals. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Choice of animal species 
The non-clinical toxicology program supporting belimumab development has been performed 
exclusively in the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) based on the following reasons: 
 
The epitope for belimumab is preserved in cynomolgus monkey B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS), 
and belimumab has a similar pharmacological activity and tissue cross-reactivity profile in 
cynomolgus monkeys and in humans.  
 
There is a high degree of homology between cynomolgus monkey and human BLyS, with 96.4% 
amino acid identity across the full-length protein, and 98% amino acid identity in the cleaved 
soluble portion of BLyS, which constitutes the biologically active form of BLyS.  
  Belimumab binds human and cynomolgus monkey soluble BLyS with nearly identical affinity.  
 
The BLyS-BLyS receptor system appears to be comparable between cynomolgus monkeys and 
humans based on the fact that CD20+ B lymphocytes from cynomolgus monkeys express BLyS 
receptors at levels comparable to those on human B lymphocytes and that belimumab has the 
expected pharmacologic activity of specifically decreasing B lymphocytes in vivo. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 17/94
 
 
 
 
 
  A tissue cross reactivity study of belimumab indicates that non-specific binding of belimumab to 
non-target tissues is likely to be limited in both humans and cynomolgus monkeys. 
In addition, the Applicant considered that conducting the toxicology program in the single species of 
cynomolgus monkey is justified based on the absence of other suitable animal models. Belimumab 
administration in non-primates, i.e. mice, guinea pigs and rabbits, is not well tolerated. Although 
belimumab binds mouse BLyS, it does so with a 10-fold lower affinity for murine BLyS compared with 
belimumab binding to human or cynomolgus monkey BLyS. Moreover, multiple injections of belimumab 
in mice led to a strong anti-drug antibody response that altered the PK and in some cases led to death 
by an anaphylactoid–like response. 
Single dose toxicity 
Specific single dose toxicity studies were not conducted which is consistent with the ICH guidance 
regarding this type of substances. Non-clinical single dose PK studies of belimumab were performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys at doses up to 150 mg/kg, where no acute toxicity were observed (see 
Pharmacokinetic section). 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The toxicology of repeat IV administration of belimumab was assessed in two GLP toxicology studies in 
cynomolgus monkeys of 4 weeks and 6 months duration, respectively. Furthermore, a dose-tolerance 
study was conducted to determine the tolerability and potential toxicity of belimumab in non-pregnant 
female cynomolgus monkeys. The details of these studies including their major findings are 
summarized in the following table. 
Table. Repeated dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys. 
Study ID  GLP 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
(mg/kg) 
Duration 
Yes 
Cynomolgus  
monkey 
0, 5, 15, 50 
weekly/IV 
4 wks + 4 wks 
recovery 
5M + 5F  
NOEL 
 (mg/kg/ 
day) 
< 5 mg/kg 
Repeated 
dose 
toxicity 
study 
Repeated 
dose 
toxicity 
study 
Yes 
Cynomolgus 
monkey 
0, 5, 15, 50 
2x/mo/IV 
6 mo + 8 mo 
recovery 
< 5 mg/kg 
8M+8F 
Dose 
finding 
No 
Cynomolgus 
monkey 
3F 
D1: 121 mg/kg 
D4: 97 mg/kg 
D15: 125 mg/g 
IV 
15 d 
125 mg/kg 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Major findings 
5 mg/kg:  
1Lymphoid depletion of B cells 
1B-lymphocytes  
T cells  
Thyroid follicular epithelial 
degeneration 1/10  
50 mg/kg: 
1Lymphoid depletion of B cells 
1B-lymphocytes  
T cells  
Thyroid follicular epithelial 
degeneration 5/10, 
IgA levels   
Splenic abscess 1/10 
LN granuloma 1/10 
All belimumab treated groups: 
Total and mature B-lymphocytes  
1Spleen weight  
1Lymphoid follicle size  (in spleen 
and mesenteric lymph nodes due 
to B cell reduction) 
Thyroid follicular epithelial 
degeneration in all groups 
including controls. 
There were no findings indicative 
of an adverse effect of belimumab.  
The target C max of approx 3700 
μg/mL was achieved after the 3rd 
dose. 
Page 18/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 B cell reduction is due to pharmacological effect of belimumab treatment 
The dosing frequency of weekly and biweekly IV administrations was a little more frequent than the 
proposed dosing regimen in the clinical setting. The highest dose used in the 4 week study provided an 
exposure margin of 5 with regard to Cmax and 12 with regard to AUC. Aside from effects associated 
with the pharmacological activity of belimumab, there were few noteworthy findings in the toxicology 
studies indicating a low potential for toxicity. Most of the findings in the toxicity studies were reversible 
and could be related to the pharmacological effect of belimumab. However, a fairly uncommon finding, 
namely thyroid follicular epithelial degeneration, was seen in both toxicology studies and the reason for 
this observation is unclear. Given the even distribution of the observations among all the treatment 
groups including controls in the long term study, a treatment related effect seems not likely.  
Extensive immunophenotyping evaluations in belimumab treated monkeys demonstrated that aside 
from the reductions in B cell counts, the number of other immunological cell types including T cells and 
NK cells are not significantly affected by belimumab treatment. A decrease in the B cells would expect 
a decrease in immunoglobulin levels but this was not that obvious in monkeys as was seen in SLE 
patients administered belimumab. Long-term toxicology studies in cynomolgus monkeys do not 
indicate an increased risk of infection or malignancy with belimumab. However, two monkeys treated 
with 50 mg/kg of belimumab during 4 weeks had necropsy findings (one abscessed spleen and one 
necrotizing granuloma in a lymph node) that may have been associated with infection and which could 
not be ruled out as a treatment related effect. 
The Applicant was asked to provide the rationale for selection of 50 mg/kg as the high dose in the 4 
week and 6 months repeated dose studies. The Applicant confirmed that the doses selected for the 
repeat dose toxicity studies were based on the intended pharmacological effect and at all dose levels 
evaluated complete saturation of all circulating BLyS, the maximum intended pharmacological effect, 
was achieved.  
Development of anti-belimumab antibodies. 
In the 4 weeks toxicity study, anti-belimumab antibodies were detected in one mid-dose (15 mg/kg) 
and two high-dose (50 mg/kg) monkeys, with one of the high-dose responses being borderline 
positive. Anti-belimumab antibodies did not alter the toxicokinetic of belimumab in affected monkeys in 
the present study, suggesting the absence of neutralising antibodies. 
In the 6 months study anti-belimumab antibodies were detected in one low dose and one high dose 
monkey at Weeks 13 and 26, respectively, with reversal by week 52 during the recovery period; this 
was associated with increased clearance of belimumab in these two monkeys. 
Genotoxicity 
No genotoxicity studies were conducted. Belimumab is a monoclonal antibody and is not expected to 
interact directly with DNA or other chromosomal material. Regulatory guidance is consistent with 
studies on genotoxicity not being necessary for this type of product. 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with belimumab. The Applicant has justified this 
approach with the following considerations: 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 19/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
  A traditional rodent carcinogenicity study would be limited due to rapid formation of anti-drug-
antibodies to both belimumab and a homologous hamster anti-mouse BLyS antibody. 
  A study in BLyS knockout mice for pre-neoplastic changes would not be a representative model as 
mice deficient in BLyS or the main BLyS receptor B3, have severely depleted numbers of peripheral 
B cells while belimumab treatment in humans reduces peripheral B cell populations by 50% but 
does not deplete them. 
  No proliferative or pre-neoplastic changes were reported in any of the monkeys in a 6 month 
repeat dose toxicity study. 
CHMP concurred with the Applicant’s argumentation that the potential risk for malignancy with 
belimumab can only be evaluated in a clinical setting; the proposal for a clinical post-marketing safety 
study was supported. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No specific studies on the effects of belimumab on fertility and early embryonic development were 
conducted. The reproductive organ/tissues were assessed in the 6 months repeat dose toxicology 
study and there were no indications that belimumab had an adverse effect on reproductive organs. In 
this study, increased testicular and epididymal weights, consistent with ongoing spermatogenesis, were 
observed in 3/6, 5/8, 5/8 and 3/8 male monkeys administered vehicle or 5, 15 and 50 mg/kg 
belimumab, respectively. Immature testes were observed in the remaining male monkeys. The 
presence of active or immature testes was correlated with body weight. 
No microscopic abnormalities were noted in the testes, epididymides, prostate or seminal vesicles of 
any of the monkeys undergoing active spermatogenesis. Periodic vaginal discharges, consistent with 
actively cycling ovaries, were observed in 3/6, 7/8, 5/8 and 6/8 female monkeys administered vehicle 
or 5, 15 and 50 mg/kg belimumab, respectively. Hypoplasia of germinal cells was reported in both 
ovaries at the recovery necropsy (Week 60) of one female treated with belimumab at 15 mg/kg. 
Despite a decrease in the number of germinal cells, normal follicular maturation was present in both 
ovaries. A single 3 mm cyst was observed macroscopically in the left oviduct. 
In a reproductive toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys combining maternal, fetal and neonatal 
toxicity evaluations, belimumab was administered intravenously to a total of 45 pregnant female 
monkeys at a dose of either 5 mg/kg (25 animals) or 150 mg/kg (20 animals); twenty-one control 
animals received vehicle formulation only. The administration of belimumab started on gestation day 
20 (GD20) and continued every 2 weeks up to GD150 or day of parturition. The systemic exposure in 
terms of AUC corresponded to exposure margins of 6 to 9 during gestation. The pharmacodynamic 
effects in terms of decreased total and mature B-lymphocytes were seen at GD90 and GD140 in all 
groups including controls. There was, however, a larger reduction in the belimumab treated groups.  
An overall higher incidence of fetal losses in the combined treatment groups compared to controls 
(20% versus 14.3%) was seen in the study. Three cases of infant death were also seen in the 
treatment groups (11%) but no case in the control group. The overall incidence of fetal loss and infant 
dead are consistent with historical control data in monkeys 17, 8% (abortions/still born) and 10-12% 
(infant deaths). It cannot be concluded that the apparent increases in abortions, stillbirth and infant 
losses are resulting from treatment with belimumab. However, given the high spontaneous occurrence 
of these events, this model is insensitive to reveal minor or moderate effects on fetal/infant survival.  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 20/94
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicokinetic data 
The toxicokinetics (TK) of belimumab after repeat dosing were evaluated in cynomolgus monkeys in 
toxicology studies and in a maternal, fetal and neonatal study. The TK of belimumab were dose-
proportional following 4 weekly intravenous doses over the range of doses tested (5, 15 and 
50 mg/kg), and there were no apparent differences between male and female monkeys (see table 
below). In addition, the TK parameters agreed well with the parameters obtained in the single dose 
studies. The mean concentration of belimumab 24 hours after the 4th weekly dose was approximately 
1.9 times the mean concentration 24 hours after the 1st dose, consistent with the extent of 
accumulation expected based on weekly administration of a molecule with a half life of 14 days.  
Toxicokinetic parameters and exposure multiples to human exposure 
Study 
Dose 
(mg/kg/) 
Animal C max 
(µg/mL) 
4 wk repeat dose 
toxicity study 
[cynomolgus 
monkey] 
reproductive 
toxicity study 
[cynomolgus 
monkey] 
5 
15 
50 
weekly 
5 
150 
2x/month 
Animal  
AUC 0-28d 
(day.µg/ml) 
M+F 
2868±259 
9459±1000 
37145±3671 
M+F 
153±9.0 
472±21.8 
1713±142 
192±25 
5241±894 
1041±148* 
27441±4365* 
Animal:Human1 
ratio 
Exposure Multiple 
C max 
0.5 
1.5 
5.5 
0.6 
17 
AUC 
0.9 
3 
12 
0.33 
9 
1 Human exposure corresponded to a C max of  313 µg/mL   and an  AUC of 3083 µg.h/ml after dosing of 10 mg/kg 
(HGS 1006-POPPK). *AUC  0-14d (week 17) 
Local Tolerance  
A local tolerance study of subcutaneously administered belimumab in cynomolgus monkey was 
conducted to support clinical studies evaluating the SC route of administration of belimumab. In this 
study minimal dermal irritations without any inflammatory reactions on the injection site were 
observed after subcutaneous (SC) administration of belimumab 25 mg/kg.  
Intravenous administration showed no signs of dermal irritation as assessed in the repeated dose 
toxicity studies. No specific cause of concern emerged with regard to local tolerance of belimumab. 
Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity/Immunogenicity 
In addition to the assessment of anti-belimumab antibodies in the repeat dose toxicity studies, 
immunogenicity of belimumab was also assessed in a dedicated 22-week subcutaneous 
immunogenicity study in order to support clinical studies evaluating the subcutanous administration of 
belimumab. Immunogenicity, TK and pharmacodynamics of SC administration of 1 mg/kg of 
belimumab either 2 or 4 times a week via SC injection over a duration of 13 weeks were evaluated. 
Study endpoints included mortality, clinical signs, clinical pathology, TK evaluations, 
immunophenotyping, and immunogenicity results. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 21/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table.  Immunogenicity study in cynomolgus monkey after SC administration of belimumab 
Study  
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/ 
Route 
Duration 
Major findings 
22-week 
SC 
immuno-
genicity 
study 
Cynomolgus monkey 
5 M + 5 F/group 
0 mg/kg 
13 weeks 
Belimumab significantly reduced the number of 
peripheral blood B cells (CD20+) in both dose 
groups. 
1 mg/kg 
(2x/w) 
(followed by 
9 weeks of 
treatment 
free period) 
Specific anti-belimumab antibodies were identified 
in 1 serum sample from 1 monkey; samples 
collected before and after the positive Day 71 
sample were not confirmed to be positive in this 
monkey. The TK profile observed for this animal did 
not appear to be altered. 
1 mg/kg 
(4x/w) 
sc 
No apparent gender-related differences in exposure 
were observed. 
All animals survived the scheduled in-life phase and were then sacrificed. No necropsy was conducted. 
No test article-related effects on clinical signs, food consumption or body weight were observed. All 
animals that received belimumab had systemic exposure to belimumab at the expected level through 
the dosing and treatment-free periods.  
In summary, across all studies, detectable, treatment emergent anti-belimumab antibodies have been 
identified in 12 out of 124 monkeys. Of these, 6 monkeys had reduced belimumab serum 
concentrations. Since the method for detecting antibodies was impacted of belimumab in serum, the 
presence of an altered PK profile was used as an indirect measure of the presence of neutralizing 
antibodies.  
Tissue-cross reactivity study 
A tissue cross reactivity study was conducted to identify any potential off-target binding of belimumab 
to human and cynomolgus monkey tissue. Cryosections of thirty-five human tissues (each from a 
minimum of 3 individuals) and 34 cynomolgus tissues (each from a minimum of 2 monkeys) were 
stained immunohistochemically with 2 and 10 μg/ml belimumab. Cryosections of pelleted and frozen 
BLyS-transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK)293 cells were used as a positive control for the 
immunohistochemical staining procedure and HEK293 cells transfected with vector control (no BLyS) 
were used as a negative control. Evaluation of cynomolgus monkey thyroid tissue was also performed 
at higher antibody concentrations (50 and 225 μg/ml) to provide additional safety information 
regarding the thyroid follicular epithelial degeneration that was observed in belimumab-treated 
monkeys. 
No specific staining of the human tissues by the belimumab antibody was identified at any 
concentration. Two of the 34 cynomolgus tissues tested (exocrine pancreas and cervical epithelial 
cells) demonstrated binding of belimumab in tissue from one monkey. One monkey showed strong 
positive staining of zymogen granules of the pancreas at 2 and 10 μg/ml belimumab and a different 
monkey showed light staining of the basal layers of the cervical epithelium at 10 μg/ml belimumab, but 
not at 2 μg/mL. Additional sections of thyroid from two cynomolgus monkeys were stained with anti-
BLyS antibody at concentrations of 50 and 225 μg/ml. No staining of the thyroid occurred. 
The pancreatic staining was observed in tissue tested from only 1 of 4 animals and the cervical staining 
was observed in tissue tested from only 1 of 3 animals and in both tissues the involved organs looked 
normal histologically. There were no treatment related effects of belimumab identified in these tissues 
in the 4 -week or 6-month toxicology studies of belimumab in cynomolgus monkeys. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 22/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental risk assessment for belimumab has been submitted in the MAA dossier. As a 
monoclonal antibody belimumab is expected to be degraded like other proteins into small peptides and 
amino acids. Excretion of those will not pose an environmental risk. Furthermore, the excipients used 
in the formulation of belimumab do not pose a risk to the environment either. Therefore, specific 
ecotoxicity studies were not performed with belimumab. This is in line with the applicable guideline on 
environmental assessment of medicinal products for human use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) and 
acceptable to CHMP. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
BLyS has been shown to exist in both soluble and membrane bound forms. Experiments performed 
indicate that belimumab specifically recognizes only soluble BLyS. Belimumab was shown to be a 
neutralising monoclonal antibody as defined by its ability to disrupt BLyS-BLyS receptor interaction for 
all three BLyS receptors and thereby inhibit the murine splenocyte proliferation induced by both human 
and cynomolgus monkey BLyS. 
The cynomolgus monkey was considered as the most relevant species in nonclinical studies since the 
monkey and human BLyS share 96.4% amino acid identity across the full length protein and 98% 
amino acid identity in the cleaved soluble portion of BLyS which constitutes the biological active form 
of the molecule. In addition, CD20+ B lymphocytes from cynomolgus monkey express BLyS receptors 
at levels comparable to those on human B lymphocytes. Furthermore, as with human samples, the 
tissue cross reactivity study showed no specific binding in monkey tissues considered related to 
belimumab. Overall, the preclinical data that support selection of the monkey as the most relevant 
species are considered satisfactory. The CHMP also considered the Applicant’s approach for selecting a 
single relevant species for the toxicology studies adequately justified and supported by data. 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies were performed for 4 weeks or 6 months, respectively. Aside from effects 
associated with the pharmacological activity of belimumab, there were few noteworthy findings in the 
toxicology studies indicating a low potential for toxicity. Most of the findings in the toxicity studies were 
reversible and could be related to the pharmacological effect of belimumab. The Applicant’s 
justification for selection of 50 mg/kg as the high dose in the repeat dose toxicity studies was 
considered acceptable by CHMP. The pharmacokinetic profile of belimumab in the monkey is in 
agreement with the pharmacokinetic profile in humans. 
With regard to the Applicant’s justification for not conducting a carcinogenicity study with belimumab, 
CHMP recognized that a suitable animal model might be difficult to find due to its low tolerability in 
rodents. However, given that belimumab has a new immune modulatory mechanism of action (i.e., 
inhibition of BLyS-BLyS interaction), the Applicant was asked to further discuss the long-term 
suppressive effects on B-cells in relation to the risk for development of malignancies to allow a full risk 
assessment of potential carcinogenicity. In its response the Applicant discussed available literature 
data on the role of BLyS in malignancy, and concluded that these data do not suggest a risk for 
carcinogenicity. The Applicant further argued that the potential risk for malignancy with belimumab can 
only be evaluated in a clinical setting, which was endorsed by CHMP. The risk to develop cancer due to 
long-term modulation of the immune system is reflected in the RMP and a warning has been added in 
the SPC. Furthermore, a post-approval long-term safety study will be conducted that will assess the 
incidence of malignancies, among other safety concerns. 
In reproductive studies in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys, belimumab treatment was not associated 
with direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to maternal toxicity, developmental toxicity, or 
teratogenicity. Treatment-related findings were limited to the expected reversible reduction of B cells 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 23/94
 
 
 
 
in both dams and infants and reversible reduction of IgM in infant monkeys. These findings are 
reflected in the SPC. While an overall higher incidence of fetal losses and infant deaths were observed 
in the combined treatment groups compared to the control, these findings were not considered 
appropriate for inclusion in the product information due to the insensitivity of the model as well as the 
high rate of spontaneous occurrences of these events. 
Based on the data from nonclinical studies in the cynomolgus monkey, immunogenicity rates were 
considered low irrespective of the assay used to quantify the presence of anti-belimumab antibodies. 
The tissue cross reactivity study indicated no specific binding of belimumab in any of the human 
tissues investigated. The pancreatic and the cervical staining seen in the monkey were not correlated 
to any histological changes and were not seen in in human tissues. The toxicity studies in monkeys did 
not show any findings related to these tissues. CHMP agreed with the applicant that unspecific tissue 
binding for belimumab seems low. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical program for belimumab was planned and executed in consideration of the need for 
long-term dosing in the target patient population and the fact that SLE often affects women of 
childbearing potential. The data provided is considered adequate and in line with the requirements of 
applicable guidelines for this type of products, particularly the ICH S6 Note for guidance on preclinical 
safety evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
Intravenous and subcutaneous administration to monkeys resulted in the expected reduction in the 
number of peripheral and lymphoid tissue B cell counts with no associated toxicological findings. 
Beyond those finding which are related to the pharmacological action of belimumab, non-clinical data 
did not reveal any special hazard for humans based on studies of repeated dose toxicity and toxicity to 
reproduction.  
Relevant information especially regarding the reproductive study findings and the effect of belimumab 
on male and female fertility are appropriately reflected in the SPC. Furthermore, the potential risk of 
malignancies has been included in the RMP and will be assessed in a clinical post-approval safety 
study. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The biological activity of BLyS coupled with the knowledge that BLyS is upregulated in patients with 
SLE and other humoral autoimmune diseases highlighted the potential role for a BLyS antagonist in the 
treatment of SLE leading, in turn, to the development of belimumab. 
Belimumab administered as an IV infusion in subjects with SLE has been studied in one Phase 1, one 
randomized Phase 2 as well as in two randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies. The long-term 
safety of belimumab is further evaluated in three open-label continuation trials. In addition, the 
applicant is conducting studies with belimumab in other therapeutic indications (e.g. rheumatoid 
arthritis) as well as evaluating a subcutaneous (SC) route of administration. An overview of the clinical 
development program is given in the table below. 
Benlysta is indicated as add-on therapy in adult patients with active, autoantibody-positive systemic 
lupus erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease activity (e.g positive anti dsDNA and low 
complement) despite standard therapy. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 24/94
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose regimen is 10 mg/kg of IV belimumab on Days 0, 14 and 28, and at 4 week 
intervals thereafter. 
There are currently no EMA/CHMP scientific guidelines available for this indication. Scientific advice was 
received from the European Medicines Agency on clinical aspects of the development programme for 
belimumab. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 25/94
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Belimumab is a human IgG1λ monoclonal antibody specific for soluble human BLyS. Due to the nature 
of the molecule, traditional pharmacokinetic studies exploring the absorption, distribution, metabolism 
and elimination (ADME) have not been performed, but rather has the systemic exposure in patients 
been described.  
The pharmacokinetic documentation included data from healthy volunteers (study C1058, SC 
administration) as well as patients with SLE (Phase 1 study LBSL01; Phase 2 study LBSL02; Phase 3 
studies C1056 and C1057). The data obtained in SLE patients have been combined in a joint 
population PK analyses which, according to the Applicant, formed the basis for the definitive 
assessment of the PK profile of belimumab. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 26/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analytical methods 
Two methods have been used for quantifying belimumab in human serum from clinical studies. An 
ELISA method was used for the Phase 1 and 2 studies, while an ECL-based assay was used to detect 
belimumab in serum samples from both Phase 3 studies. Subsequent to use in Phase 3 studies, the 
specifications for the control and standard curve samples in the ECL assay were modified and the 
modified assay was shown to be comparable to the previous version of the assay. The range of 
interpolation following dilution was 0.277-20 ng/mL and 0.25-120 ng/mL for the ELISA and ECL 
method, respectively. The methods have been sufficiently documented and demonstrate adequate 
accuracy and precision. 
PK in healthy subjects 
Study C1058 is a randomized, parallel-group, open-label, phase I, single-dose study of belimumab in 
healthy subjects. The study was designed to evaluate the absolute bioavailability and safety of a single 
SC dose (100 mg) of belimumab in healthy subjects.  
A total of 36 healthy subjects, 18 to 63 years of age, were enrolled and randomized to two treatment 
groups. In the IV group, subjects received a single IV dose (100 mg) of belimumab as a 1-hour 
infusion. In the SC group, subjects received a single 100 mg dose of belimumab by SC injection into 
the abdomen or thigh. Intensive blood samples were collected in both groups within 70 days following 
drug administration. Belimumab PK parameters were calculated using non-compartmental methods. 
After SC administration, the absolute bioavailability of belimumab was 67.23% (95% CI: 56.51% to 
77.95%), Tmax was 5.0 days. Mean Cmax and AUC (0-∞) were 10.63 μg/mL and 284.8 day*μg/mL, 
respectively. After IV administration, mean Cmax and AUC (0-∞) were 36.67 μg/mL and 
413.3 day*μg/mL, respectively. Mean elimination half-life was 12.6 days after SC administration and 
13.5 days after IV administration. 
PK in target population 
Study LBSL01 is a Phase 1, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-
escalation study of belimumab in subjects with SLE. Belimumab dose levels of 1, 4, 10, and 20 mg/kg 
were administered IV as a single dose (Cohorts 1-4) or double dose (2 doses, 21 days apart; Cohort 5-
8). Belimumab or placebo was administered by IV infusion over a period of approximately 2 hours  
In study LBSL01 serum belimumab concentrations were measured following an extensive sampling 
schedule after dosing and the data were analysed by compartmental methods. A 2-compartment 
infusion model was used to evaluate serum belimumab concentration-time data from all eight cohorts. 
Various weighting schemes were evaluated.  
There were no significant differences in PK parameters between single and double dose cohorts. 
Overall, belimumab PK are linear across the 1 to 20 mg/kg dose range in this study. For the two 
subjects with positive anti-belimumab antibody responses, the observed serum concentrations were 2 
to 3.5-fold lower than the predicted values at the time points.  
However, the results obtained from study LBSL01 may not be entirely predictive of belimumab PK after 
chronic administration as belimumab was administered only short term (single or double dose) in this 
study. 
The serum belimumab concentration data obtained from the Phase 2 (study LBSL02) and Phase 3 
(C1056 and C1057) long-term dosing trials employed sparse sample collection and were used in the 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 27/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
population PK analysis (for further study details see section on Clinical efficacy below). In these studies 
the concentration data were summarized using mean, median, standard error, standard deviation, 
%CV, geometric mean, 95% confidence interval, and number of subjects (N). The exposure linearity 
was evaluated using power relationship (y = AxB) and linear regression of the logarithmically 
transformed dose versus logarithmically transformed pharmacokinetic variables.  
Population PK analysis 
The population PK (PopPK) analysis served to complement the non-compartmental analysis (NCA) of 
belimumab PK by providing assessments of dose linearity and effect of covariates on the drug PK.  
Data from intravenous dosing studies in SLE patients (one Phase 1 study (LBSL01, N=57), one Phase 2 
study (LBSL02, N=424) and two Phase 3 studies (C1056, N=544; 1057, N=578) with a total of 1,603 
subjects were included in the data set underlying the PopPK analysis. A non-linear mixed-effects model 
describing the pharmacokinetics of belimumab was developed using NONMEM 6.2 using the FOCE-I 
estimation method. The objectives of this study were to develop a population pharmacokinetic model 
that characterizes the disposition of belimumab following intravenous administration to subjects with 
SLE and to evaluate the potential effect of selected subject covariates on key pharmacokinetic 
parameters. In addition, the PopPK model allows estimating individual subject PK parameters in 
efficacy trials for potential exposure-response analysis. 
The pharmacokinetics of belimumab was well described by a linear 2-compartment model with 
clearance from the central compartment. The model included several covariate effects (9 covariate 
effects related to patient characteristics, 2 covariate effects related to co-medications and 5 covariates 
related to study and dose effects.) whereof only the effect of body size was considered clinically 
relevant. 
Absorption and bioavailability  
Belimumab is administered as an intravenous (IV) infusion and bioavailability is complete. Maximum 
serum concentrations of belimumab were generally observed at, or shortly after, the end of the 
infusion. The maximum serum concentration following the 10 mg/kg dose in the phase 3 studies was 
estimated to 313 µg/ml (range: 173-573 µg/ml) based on empirical Bayes individual pharmacokinetic 
parameters using  the population pharmacokinetic model. 
Distribution and elimination 
Following single IV administration, serum belimumab concentrations decline in a bi-exponential 
manner consistent with a 2-compartment model with first order elimination from the central 
compartment. The mean volume of distribution at steady-state (VSS) was 5.29 L in the targeted Phase 
3 population with 10 mg/kg dosing. The small V SS value indicates that belimumab is confined primarily 
to the extracellular fluid volume consistent which is typical for the class of IgG1 monoclonal antibodies. 
The estimated population terminal half-life of 19.4 days (for 10 mg/kg dosing) and clearance of 
215 mL/day (corresponding to 3.2 mL/day/kg) in the targeted Phase 3 population with 10 mg/kg 
dosing are consistent with results from other IgG 1 monoclonal antibodies. NCA and PopPK showed 
fairly similar results.  
In the population PK analysis the central (V1) and peripheral volumes of distribution (V2) were 
estimated to 2,560 and 2,730 mL, respectively (corresponding to 38.6 mL/kg and 41.2 mL/kg). 
Between-subject variability in total systemic clearance (CL), central volume of distribution (V1) and 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 28/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral volume of distribution (V2) was modest with coefficients of variation being estimated at 
26.4% for CL, 19.9% for V1, 31.1% for V2.  
IgG monoclonal antibodies are in general eliminated via non-specific endocytosis followed by 
proteolysis and/or by receptor-mediated endocytosis and catabolism. Thus, the general studies 
concerning excretion and metabolism have not been performed, which was acceptable to CHMP. 
Immunogenicity  
The effect of antibodies toward belimumab (ADA) on the systemic exposure was explored in all clinical 
trials and in the population PK analysis. The methodologies employed for measuring anti-belimumab 
antibodies changed over time. The assay to evaluate the presence of neutralising anti-belimumab 
antibody in a serum sample was performed using fluorometric immunoassay methods. Only samples 
determined to be positive for anti-belimumab antibody (by either or both of the immunogenicity 
screening assay formats) were to be analyzed in the neutralisation assay. 
Immunogenicity was observed relatively infrequently. In the two Phase 3 studies, 73 out of 559 
subjects in the 1 mg/kg group and 5 out of 563 subjects in the 10 mg/kg group tested positive for 
anti-belimumab antibodies at, at least one time point (i.e. both persistent and transiently positive).  
Assay sensitivity for neutralising antibodies and non-specific anti drug antibody (ADA) is limited by the 
presence of active drug in the collected samples. The true occurrence of neutralising antibodies and 
non specific anti drug antibody in the study population is therefore not known.  
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The variability in AUC ranged from 21%CV to 42%CV. The systemic exposure appears to be 
independent of dose and time over the studied doses (1-20 mg/kg) and duration (up to 1 year). 
In the PopPK model, while the covariate effect of dose group on V2 in the final model indicates that 
exposure is not perfectly dose-linear, the impact of this effect on steady-state exposure is relatively 
minor. Moreover, graphical data analysis and testing baseline antibody target (BLyS) levels as a 
covariate effect on CL did not reveal evidence of clinically significant CL mediated by binding of 
belimumab to its target. It was concluded that target-mediated disposition (TMD) does not appear to 
play a substantial role in belimumab pharmacokinetics and that belimumab pharmacokinetics are 
approximately dose proportional for the tested dosing regimens. 
The results of the PopPK analysis indicated that the belimumab PK parameters were time invariant 
over the period for which the PK data were available (induction period up to approx. 12 weeks 
following the first dose). The effect of time on CL seems to be not significant, and there was no trend 
in the conditional weighted residuals versus time, indicating that the PopPK parameters are time-
invariant. 
Special populations 
No specific studies have been performed with respect to special populations, but information is 
obtained from the clinical studies and the population PK analysis. The lack of such studies in impaired 
organ function is acceptable given that this is a monoclonal antibody for which elimination via renal 
excretion, biliary excretion or hepatic metabolism is limited. With respect to renal function, the 
population PK model predicts clearance to change by -36% and 9% for a subject with creatinine 
clearance of 10 and 120 ml/min, respectively, compared with a subject with creatinine clearance of 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 29/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
80 ml/min. In addition, clearance was predicted to increase by 14% with proteinuria (>2 g/24h). 
However, neither of these effects was considered to have a clinically significant effect on belimumab 
clearance. Subsequently, no dose adjustments are proposed in either renal or hepatic impairment, 
which in general is accepted. However, due to the lack of available data, caution is recommended in 
patients with severe renal impairment. 
Both clearance and volume of distribution increase with increasing body weight. An additional effect of 
BMI on volume of distribution was identified implying that a subject with a higher BMI but otherwise 
weight-matched will have a lower volume of distribution, and accordingly a higher maximum plasma 
concentration. Taken together, the body size effects do not predict that the systemic exposure will 
increase directly in proportion to dose, and given the body weight adjusted dosing, underweight 
subjects will experience lower systemic exposure compared with the typical subjects and the opposite 
will be true for obese patients. A review of efficacy aspects did not indicate decreased efficacy in 
underweight patients although the data are limited. With respect to safety, similar adverse event 
patterns were observed for obese subjects apart from gastrointestinal AEs. Higher rates of nausea, 
vomiting and diarrhoea were observed in obese patients; however, none of these events were serious 
and no dose adjustment is recommended for either underweight or obese patients. This is reflected in 
the SPC. 
Concerning gender the popPK analysis did not identify an effect but cannot be considered conclusive 
due to the fact that the main part of the patients were female. An effect is, however, not expected 
after body weight adjustment. 
Furthermore, no effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of belimumab has been observed; also, no 
effect of age has been identified, but the analysis is only conclusive up to 65 years of age due to 
limited data above 65 years. Information in children and adolescents is currently not available. The 
absence of paediatric data is included as important missing information in the RMA and a study in 
children aged 5-17 years will be conducted. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal drug-drug interaction study was carried out by the Applicant because belimumab is a protein 
and does not undergo metabolism by the cytochrome P450 enzymes. Concomitant medications were 
explored in the population PK analysis but concomitant medications were in some cases grouped 
according to therapeutic area and there is no information of the dose levels used and whether the 
patients actually received the drug at the time of sampling. Thus, the results cannot be used as firm 
evidence of the size of an interaction or the lack of interaction, but merely as a general 
observation/support that no large/major interaction was observed, and cannot be used as the basis for 
a statement in the SmPC. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
As a monoclonal antibody, belimumab is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system; instead, it 
is cleared through cellular catabolism following nonspecific uptake by pinocytosis. Accordingly, no in 
vitro studies using human biomaterials, such as drug-drug interaction studies, were conducted. This 
was acceptable for CHMP. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 30/94
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Belimumab is a molecule expected to reduce B-cell counts by blocking the B-cell survival factor, BLyS. 
An agent that reduces B-cell counts might also be expected to reduce the products of B cells (i.e., 
serum immunoglobulins, including autoantibodies). A reduction in autoantibodies, in turn, could be 
expected to be associated with increases in complement levels, which are known to be reduced in SLE 
subjects with active disease, partly as a result of autoantibody fixation of complement that results in 
organ damage. 
Thus, pharmacodynamic endpoints that have been evaluated in all clinical studies of IV belimumab 
include serum immunoglobulin levels, autoantibody levels, serum complement (C3 and C4) levels, and 
B-cell counts. As these are endpoints in clinical studies that support the safety and efficacy evaluation 
of belimumab, only a summary of results from the Phase 1 studies are provided here; more detailed 
descriptions of these pharmacodynamic endpoints can be found in the summaries of the individual 
clinical Phase 2 and 3 studies. 
Autoantibodies that have been assessed in clinical studies include anti-dsDNA, anti-nuclear antibodies 
(ANA), anti-Smith antibodies (anti-Sm), anti-RNP, aCL, anti-SS-A (anti-Ro), anti-SS-B (anti-La), and 
anti-ribosomal P. The only autoantibody discussed in detail in this section is the anti-dsDNA marker, as 
it is present at baseline in the greatest number of subjects (~70% of subjects across the Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 studies in SLE). 
Mechanism of action 
Belimumab inhibits the biological activity of BLyS. The primary function of BLyS is the promotion of B-
lymphocyte survival and differentiation. In humans, soluble BLyS is biologically active and produced 
primarily by monocytes and activated neutrophils. The biological effect of BLyS is predominantly 
mediated through the BR3 receptor. The immediate downstream effects of BLyS signalling are on 
intracellular molecules that regulate apoptosis/cell survival. BLyS signalling through its main receptor 
BR3 is generally acknowledged to result in an anti-apoptotic program that is mediated by cooperative 
activation of the classical and alternative NF-κB pathways. For details of the belimumab mode of action 
see also section on Non-clinical aspects. 
Ex vivo studies with serum and synovial fluid from autoimmune patients, primarily SLE and RA, have 
demonstrated that BLyS levels in autoimmune patient populations are significantly higher than those 
observed in normal healthy controls. Elevated BLyS levels have been found to be positively correlated 
with elevated anti-dsDNA, IgG, and disease activity and prospectively collected data from patients with 
SLE showed an association between an elevated BLyS level and a subsequent increase in disease 
activity. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The applicant conducted two Phase 1 studies in which the effect of a single or double doses of 
belimumab on immunoglobulin levels and B cells was assessed (LBSL01 in SLE subjects and C1058 in 
healthy volunteers).  
Phase I clinical trials    
In the Phase 1 study LBSL01, measurements of serum immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM, IgA, IgE), anti-
dsDNA antibodies, complement and B cells were assessed on Day 0 prior to dosing, and generally at 2-
4 week intervals following dosing through a 12 week wash-out period. In general, the percent decrease 
in serum immunoglobulins appeared to be greater for belimumab treatment groups relative to placebo 
in LBSL01. No treatment effect on anti-dsDNA levels were observed in the complete study population. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 31/94
 
 
 
 
No consistent effect on complement levels was noted in LBLS01. A treatment effect for reductions in 
CD20+ cells relative to placebo was only observed in a subset of subjects with higher baseline CD20+ 
B-cell counts observed in the belimumab-treated subjects overall. Reductions in plasmacytoid 
(CD20+/CD138+) cells in belimumab-treated were observed only at isolated timepoints. 
In study C1058 (healthy volunteers, SC administration) measurements of serum immunoglobulins 
(IgG, IgM, IgA) and B cells were assessed on Day 0 prior to dosing, and at 4 timepoints within the 70-
day wash-out period. Mean percent reductions in IgG, IgA, and IgM relative to baseline were observed 
from Day 28 onward in both the IV and SC treatment groups, but values in all cases were within 10% 
of mean baseline values. No consistent effects on activated B cells and plasma cells were observed in 
C1058. However, mean and median CD20+/CD27+ memory B cell counts were increased relative to 
baseline at all post-treatment visits in both the IV and SC treatment groups, which is similar to effects 
seen on B cells in the repeat dose Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies 
2.4.4.  Discussion and conclusion on clinical pharmacology 
Belimumab is a recombinant, human, IgG1λ monoclonal antibody that binds to and inhibits the 
biological activity of BLyS. Belimumab binds soluble BLyS with high affinity and blocks the interaction 
of BLyS with its three receptors resulting in the inhibition of the downstream effects of BLyS in vitro 
and in vivo. Belimumab does not recognize membrane-bound BLyS.  
The human pharmacokinetic properties of belimumab been characterised sufficiently in SLE patients 
and are in line with those observed for other IgG monoclonal antibodies. The PK profile was shown to 
be linear across the 1 to 10 mg/kg dose range. The estimated population terminal half-life of 19.4 days 
is consistent with results from other IgG1 monoclonal antibodies. 
At the administered doses there are no indications of dose or time dependency. The effects of body 
size (BW on central CL and BW or BMI on V1) had the strongest impact on belimumab PK parameters. 
These effects are addressed by weight normalized dosing. Other patient characteristics had small to 
moderate effects and did not warrant dose adjustments, particularly, given the safety results which 
indicate that belimumab has a safety profile comparable to placebo, with no suggestion of a dose-
response relationship for adverse events.  
The lack of excretion data is acceptable given that the main elimination of belimumab does not occur 
via biliary or renal excretion. No data has been submitted regarding the metabolism of belimumab. 
This was considered acceptable by CHMP given that the main elimination of belimumab does not occur 
via metabolism catalysed by enzymes normally involved in drug metabolism. 
The assays sensitivity for neutralizing antibodies and non-specific anti-drug antibody (ADA) are limited 
by the presence of active drug in the collected samples. Therefore, there is very limited insight in the 
true occurrence of neutralizing antibodies and non-specific anti-drug antibody in the study population 
and no definitive conclusions can be drawn regarding the effects of immunogenicity on belimumab PK. 
Information on the immunogenic potential for belimumab has been added to the SPC. Furthermore, 
the Applicant will continue to assess the incidence of formation of anti-belimumab antibodies using an 
ECL-based bridging assay in ongoing and future clinical studies.  
It is not fully known how soluble BLyS is related to the pathophysiology of SLE and to what degree the 
binding of soluble BLyS affects the course or the severity of SLE. The controlled studies in subjects 
with SLE did not show a relationship to belimumab dose with respect to decreases in immunoglobulin 
levels or normalization of anti-dsDNA. For other assessments, a dose trend was observed, such as for 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 32/94
 
 
 
 
 
complement levels, conversion from seropositive to seronegative for anti-Sm and anti-ribosomal P 
antibodies, and reduction in plasma cells. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
The objectives of the clinical development program for belimumab were to demonstrate the efficacy, 
safety, and impact on quality of life of belimumab in combination with standard of care therapy in the 
treatment of patients with SLE.  
The efficacy studies from the belimumab clinical development program in SLE include LBSL02, C1056 
and C1057. The efficacy data from the Phase 2 (LBSL02) study are considered supportive and 
hypothesis generating, while the Phase 3 trials are considered pivotal and hypothesis confirming.  
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
In the Phase 2 study (LBSL02) the efficacy of three doses (1, 4 and 10 mg/kg) of belimumab in 
combination with standard care was evaluated as compared to placebo (plus standard care) in study 
subjects with active SLE.  
Eligible subjects had a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to the ACR criteria and “active” SLE disease, 
defined as a SELENA SLEDAI disease activity score of at least 4 at screening and a history of 
measurable autoantibodies; a positive autoantibody result was not required at screening.  
The two co-primary efficacy endpoints were percent change in SELENA SLEDAI at week 24 and time to 
first SLE flare (using the SELENA SLEDAI flare index) over 52 weeks. Analyses were performed on the 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population, defined as the subset of all randomized subjects who 
received at least 1 dose of study agent. 
Results in LBSL02 
Belimumab was administered to 336 subjects, while 113 subjects received placebo (total 449). A total 
of 364 subjects completed the 52-week treatment period of the study, 345 of whom received 
treatment in the optional 24-week extension period. Of the 321 subjects completing the extension 
period, 296 were enrolled and treated in the LBSL99 study. Overall, the dropout rate in the initial 52-
week treatment period was 19% (85/449), with no apparent difference among treatment groups. The 
most frequent reasons for withdrawal from the study were subject request and lack of compliance 
(5.3% each) in the placebo arm and subject request (7.4%) followed by AE (6.0%) in all active groups 
combined. 
Over 93% of the subjects in LBSL02 were female, with a mean age of 42 years and being the majority 
of subjects < 45 years of age. Approximately 70% of the population was white, 24% (n = 106) was 
black and Hispanic/Latino ethnicity made up 19% of the population. In general, key baseline 
demographics were balanced across treatment groups. 
Superior efficacy in the co-primary endpoint, percent change in SELENA SLEDAI score at Week 24, was 
not achieved. The mean percent decrease in SELENA SLEDAI score was numerically better than 
placebo for the 1 and 10 mg/kg groups with an average of approximately 23% each compared with 
17% in the placebo group, while the 4 mg/kg group had a mean percent decrease of 11%. These 
trends continued through Week 52/56. Furthermore, belimumab did not show benefit as measured by 
the pre-specified major secondary endpoints of SELENA SLEDAI, including AUC of SELENA SLEDAI 
score and percent change of SELENA SLEDAI at Week 52. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 33/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study also failed to demonstrate differences in Time to first mild/moderate or severe SLE flare 
(SFI) over 52 weeks (67 days for belimumab combined vs. 83 days for placebo), which were the co-
primary endpoints of the study. The number of flares was high and the majority (86% or more) of both 
belimumab and placebo subjects flared by Week 52, mostly in the initial 24weeks. 
In post hoc analyses, a belimumab treatment effect was observed for decreases in SELENA SLEDAI 
score from baseline to Week 52 in subjects with the following baseline characteristics: anti-dsDNA 
antibody positivity, low C3, low C4, and prednisone dose >7.5 mg/day at baseline (pre-specified 
subgroup). There were favorable trends in SELENA SLEDAI scores observed in the subgroup of 
subjects with baseline SELENA SLEDAI scores ≥8 (pre-specified subgroup) and ANA ≥1:80 at both 
screening and Day 0. 
The results of the Phase 2 study guided the selection of a patient population (autoantibody positive, 
SELENA SLEDAI score ≥ 6) that was most likely to benefit from belimumab treatment. Furthermore, 
dose selection (1 and 10 mg/kg) as well as selection of the composite endpoint (SRI at Week 52) as 
the primary efficacy endpoint in the Phase 3 trials were derived from the Phase 2 data. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
Two Phase 3 trials have been conducted in patients with SLE and are considered as pivotal support for 
this MAA. The two Phase 3 trials were multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trials 
with similar study design which considered the post-hoc subgroup findings of the Phase 2 study 
(LBSL02). Placebo-controlled treatment was continued through week 52 in study C1057 (BLISS-52) 
and through Week 76 in study C1056 (BLISS-76), respectively. 
The study characteristics described below apply to both Phase 3 studies unless indicated differently. 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Eligible subjects should have a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to the ACR criteria, have an active 
SLE disease defined as a SELENA SLEDAI score ≥6 at screening and should be positive for 
autoantibodies, defined as ANA (titer ≥1:80) and/or anti-dsDNA (≥30 IU/mL) at two time points prior 
to randomization reflecting a more active disease than the Phase 2 study. 
The selection criteria for the Phase 3 program were discussed and agreed with EMA in a formal 
scientific advice procedure prior to initiation of the Phase 3 trials, and are considered adequate. The 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 34/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
main exclusion criteria were active lupus nephritis or CNS disease requiring intervention, unstable or 
uncontrolled acute or chronic medical conditions. Further exclusion criteria were pregnancy, receipt of 
any B cell-target therapy at any time, receipt of an investigational agent within 60 days prior to Day 0 
for non-biologics and within 1 year for biologics, IV cyclophosphamide (within 6 months), anti-TNF 
therapy, anakinra, IV immunoglobulin (IVIG), prednisone >100 mg/day, or plasmapheresis within 3 
months or live vaccine within 1 month. 
Treatments 
Eligible subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups: belimumab 1 mg/kg, belimumab 
10 mg/kg, or placebo administered IV on Days 0, 14, and 28, then every 28 days through 52/76 
weeks in addition to stable standard therapy. 
Stable standard therapy consisted of the following (alone or in combination): prednisone or equivalent, 
anti-malarials, NSAIDs, or any immunosuppressive therapy (i.e. methotrexate, azathioprine, 
leflunomide, mycophenolate, calcineurin inhibitors, sirolimus, oral cyclophosphamide, 6 
mercaptopurine, or thalidomide). Subjects who required changes in background SLE medications 
beyond that permitted by protocol were declared treatment failures/non-responders. 
Concomitant therapy were restricted regarding anti-malarials, steroids, other immunosuppressive or 
immunomodulatory agents, HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, angiotensin pathway antihypertensives, 
NSAIDS and Aspirin. 
Prohibited medication at any time during the study included other investigational agents (biologic or 
non-biologic), anti-TNF therapy (e.g. adalimumab, etanercept, infliximab), other biologics (e.g. 
rituximab, abatacept, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist [anakinra]), intravenous immunoglobulin 
(IVIG), IV cyclophosphamide, plasmapheresis. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 35/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The objective of the Phase 3 studies was to demonstrate the efficacy and safety profile of belimumab 
in subjects with SLE as add-on to standard of care (SOC) therapy, including corticosteroids. In 
addition, the impact of belimumab on quality of life in subjects with SLE was to be evaluated. 
While corticosteroid tapering was not an objective, a comprehensive use control was established and 
physicians were recommended to reduce CS doses provided that the patients remained stable at least 
4 weeks. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
The SLE responder index (SRI), which evaluated response rate at Week 52, was used as the primary 
efficacy endpoint. The SRI is a composite endpoint resulting from the combination of three validated 
tools for estimating SLE disease activity: the SELENA SLEDAI, PGA and BILAG.  
Response in SLE responder index (SRI) at Week 52 was defined as:  
  ≥ 4 point reduction from baseline in SELENA SLEDAI score, 
AND 
  No worsening (increase of < 0.30 points from baseline) in PGA,  
AND 
  No new BILAG A organ domain score or 2 new BILAG B organ domain scores compared with 
baseline at the time of assessment (i.e. at Week 52). 
This composite endpoint had been agreed in a scientific advice procedure. The individual components 
are described in more detail below. 
SELENA SLEDAI score: 
The SLEDAI is an index for assessing SLE disease activity (Bombardier et al, 1992). It captures a 
subject’s condition over the 10 days prior to the visit. It is a weighted index in which signs and 
symptoms, laboratory tests, and physician’s assessment for each of nine organ systems are given a 
weighted score and summed up if present at the time of the visit or in the preceding 10 days: 
  Score of 8 each for CNS and vascular items 
  Score of 4 each for renal and musculoskeletal items 
  Score of 2 each for serosal, dermal, and immunologic items 
  Score of 1 each for constitutional and hematologic items 
The SELENA SLEDAI used in this study is a slightly modified version of the SLEDAI developed for a 
National Institutes of Health-sponsored multicenter study of estrogen/progesterone hormone use in 
women with SLE (Buyon et al, 2005; Petri et al, 2005). The maximum theoretical score for the SELENA 
SLEDAI is 105 (all 24 descriptors present simultaneously) with 0 indicating inactive disease. SELENA 
SLEDAI was assessed at screening and prior to dosing at Day 0, at Week 4, and at every scheduled 
study visit thereafter through Week 76/Exit except Weeks 56 and 64. 
According to the Applicant classification of increased disease activity using the SELENA SLEDAI score 
has been described as an increase of 3 points or more (Petri, 1991a; Petri, 1999), and a reduction of 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 36/94
 
 
 
 
more than 3 points in SELENA SLEDAI score has been defined as an improvement (Gladman, 2000). 
Consequently, a reduction ≥4 was considered evidence of improvement. 
PGA (Physician’s Global assessment): 
The PGA is a 0-10 cm visual analogue scale (VAS), anchored at 0 (none) and 3 (severe), with 
intermediate lines at 1 (mild), and 2 (moderate) designed for the physician to indicate the subject’s 
overall disease activity at a particular visit (Petri et al, 1999).  
PGA was assessed at screening, prior to dosing at Day 0, at Week 4, and at every scheduled study visit 
thereafter through Week 76/Exit except Weeks 56 and 64.  
BILAG  
The BILAG (British Isles Lupus Assessment Group) index is a clinical measure of lupus disease activity. 
BILAG scores patients based on the need for alterations or intensifications of therapy. The main 
distinguishing feature of the BILAG index from other disease activity indices is that disease activity in 
different organs/systems is reported separately. 
Eight organ systems are being evaluated: general, mucocutaneous, neurological, musculoskeletal, 
cardiorespiratory, vasculitis, renal, and haematological. A score is calculated for each system 
depending on the SLE clinical manifestations (or signs and symptoms) present and whether they are 
new, worse, the same, improving, or not present in the last 4 weeks compared with the previous 4 
weeks. 
  BILAG A: The SLE disease manifestations considered severe in each system are those that 
would normally require high dose steroids (prednisolone >20 mg/day or equivalent) and/or 
cytotoxic agents; these define a BILAG A score. 
  BILAG B: More moderate SLE disease manifestations that would be considered appropriate 
to treat with lower dose steroids, antimalarial drugs or NSAIDs contribute to a BILAG B 
score.  
  BILAG C: Mild symptomatic SLE features that require only symptomatic therapy (e.g. 
analgesics and NSAIDs) contribute to a C score.  
  BILAG D: If there are no current symptoms, but the system has previously been involved, 
then a D is recorded. 
  BILAG E: If the system has never been involved an E score is assigned.  
A BILAG flare is a worsening in one or more organ systems to an A score (from a B-E score) or a 
worsening in two or more organ systems to a B score (from a C-E score). 
A BILAG response is defined as a BILAG A organ domain score that improves to B, C, or D or a BILAG 
B organ domain score that improves to C or D wherein the subject also has no moderate to severe 
worsening in another organ domain as defined by the subject’s having a new BILAG A organ domain or 
two new BILAG B organ domain scores compared with baseline at the time of assessment.  
The BILAG was assessed at screening, prior to dosing at Day 0, at Week 4, and at every scheduled 
study visit thereafter through Week 76/Exit except Weeks 56 and 64. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 37/94
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoint  
Numerous secondary endpoints were included in the study protocols and analytical plans. The following 
were selected by the applicant as major secondary endpoints: 
Table 
Major secondary endpoints in the Phase 3 trials 
Efficacy Endpoints 
Response  rate  at  Week  76  (SELENA  SLEDAI  ≥  4  point 
reduction  and  no  worsening  as  measured  by  PGA  and 
BILAG) 
%  of  subjects  with  ≥4  point  reduction  in  SELENA  SLEDAI 
at Week 52 
Mean change in PGA at Week 24 
% Subjects with prednisone (equivalent) reduction ≥ 25% 
from  baseline  to  ≤7.5 mg/day  during  Weeks  40  –  52  (in 
subjects  whose  prednisone  equivalent  dose  was  >  7.5 
mg/day at baseline) 
Phase 2 
LBSL02 
na 
Phase 3 
C1056 
C1057 
MS 
na 
ph1 
os 
na2 
MS 
MS 
MS 
MS 
MS 
MS 
Mean change in SF-36 PCS at Week 24 
os 
MS 
MS 
MS = major secondary endpoint; na = not applicable; os = other secondary endpoint; ph = post-hoc. 
1 
2 
Performed post-hoc with drop-out = failure analysis, but without the concomitant medication failure rules. 
Similar major secondary endpoint in LBSL02, but threshold was ≥ 50% reduction from baseline. 
Sample size 
Approximately 810 subjects were to be randomized and treated in each of the two Phase 3 trials, with 
a target of at least 270 subjects per treatment group. This sample size was to provide at least 90% 
power at a 5% level of significance to detect a minimum of a 14% absolute improvement in the 
response rate for the 10 mg/kg belimumab group (or both 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups) 
relative to the placebo group at Week 52. 
The sample size calculation used the most conservative estimate for the standard deviation (SD) in the 
population (i.e. population SD=50%) yielding an assumption of a 43% placebo response rate vs 57% 
belimumab response rate, with an average (population) response rate of 50% under the null 
hypothesis (i.e. active=placebo). 
Randomisation 
Subjects enrolled in the Phase 3 trials were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of the three treatment 
groups (1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg belimumab or placebo), stratified by their screening SELENA SLEDAI 
score (6-9 vs ≥10), screening proteinuria level (<2 g/24 hour vs ≥2 g/24 hour equivalent) and race 
(African descent or indigenous-American descent vs other, i.e. white European ancestors and Asian). 
Blinding (masking) 
Subjects were randomized once they had undergone all screening procedures and had been 
determined to be eligible for study participation. 
Belimumab study drug was supplied as open-label vials and 3rd party unblinding was employed. The 
study agent was reconstituted and diluted by the unblinded site pharmacist or designee, independent 
of the study. A sponsor’s pharmacist and drug accountability clinical research associates who were 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 38/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
independent of day-to-day operations of the study were unblinded to a subject’s specific treatment 
assignment and responsible for checking the study drug supplies and accountability records at the sites 
and for confirming that subjects received the correct study agent at the correct dose level. The subject 
and all other study site, sponsor and CRO personnel remained blinded to the study agent received and 
to the results of certain biomarker measurements (i.e. aCL, anti-Sm, ANA, IgA and IgM, BLyS, and B 
cell subsets for C1056 subjects) and PK results. 
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis was a logistic regression analysis adjusted for baseline stratification factors. All 
statistical tests were 2-sided and performed at a significance level of 5% unless otherwise specified. 
The baseline of a variable was defined as the value of the variable measured at Day 0 prior to dosing, 
unless specified otherwise. If a Day 0 value was not available, the last available value prior to Day 0 
was to be used. Patients discontinuing prior to the Week 52 visit were to be counted as failures in the 
primary responder analysis. 
Unless otherwise specified, all analyses were performed on a modified intention-to-treat (mITT) 
population. The mITT population was defined as the subset of all randomized subjects who received at 
least one dose of study agent. The mITT analysis was performed according to the treatment that a 
subject was randomized to receive, regardless of the actual treatment received. 
For the primary analysis of the primary endpoint a step-down sequential procedure was to be used to 
control the type 1 error. First the high dose treatment group was to be compared to placebo, and only 
if this comparison was statistically significant (2-sided alpha=0.05), the low dose would be compared 
to placebo (2-sided alpha=0.05). 
Subgroup analyses for the primary endpoint according to the following factors were planned according 
to baseline SELENA SLEDAI score (≤9 vs ≥10); Race (African descent or indigenous-American descent 
(AIA) vs other); Baseline proteinuria level (<2 g/24 hour vs ≥2 g/24 hour equivalent); Baseline anti-
dsDNA (≥30 IU/mL vs <30 IU/mL), Baseline prednisone dose level (≤7.5 mg/day vs >7.5 mg/day), 
Baseline C3 levels (normal/high vs low), Baseline C4 levels (normal/high vs low), Region. 
Additional exploratory subgroup analyses by age, gender, baseline medications, baseline BILAG, 
baseline SELENA-SLEDAI score (≤ 12 vs ≥ 13), race, baseline ANA, anti-Sm, BLyS, steroid use were 
performed. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 39/94
 
 
 
 
Results of Study C1056 (BLISS-76) 
Participant flow 
Figure   Summary of subject disposition (Study C1056) 
The overall rate of premature discontinuation of study agent was 26%, 20%, and 23% in the placebo 
group, 1 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups, respectively. The most frequent reasons for 
discontinuing study agent were subject request, AE, and lack of efficacy. 
Recruitment 
Patients were recruited in a total of 136 study centers across Europe (62), North America (65) and 
Latin America (9). The study period was from 8 February 2007 (1st subject randomized) to 4 March 
2010 (last subject complete 8-week follow-up). 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol for study C1056 was amended twice. The main purpose of Amendment 01 was to correct 
an error noted in the primary efficacy analysis and to modify the SELENA SLEDAI scoring of proteinuria 
at screening. Amendment 02 introduced a modification of the immunogenicity testing schedule to 
maintain the study blind; furthermore, some exclusion criteria were revised and previous IVIG 
administration as an indication for prophylaxis prior to administration of belimumab was added. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 40/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographics 
Subject demographics were generally comparable across treatment groups. The population in this 
study was predominantly white (70%). As expected, most subjects were female (93%). The mean age 
was 40 years (range 18-73), with only 2.0% of subjects 65 years or older. Subjects 45 years old and 
younger accounted for 67% of subjects, >45 to<65 years 31%. Subjects were randomized and treated 
at 136 sites across 19 countries (USA/Canada 53%, West Europe/Israel 25%, Eastern Europe 11.4%, 
others 10%). 70% of the patients were Caucasian, 14.4% were black/African American, 13% Natives 
from Alaska/America). 
Baseline Disease Characteristics – Clinical measures 
The mean duration of SLE was similar across groups (7.5 years in all groups). 
Overall, the baseline level of disease activity was relatively high, with a mean score of 9.7 and 
approximately 51% of subjects presenting with a SELENA SLEDAI score of 10 points or greater. 
However, some imbalances in baseline disease activity between the belimumab and placebo groups 
were seen. A slightly higher number of subjects in the belimumab groups had low disease activity 
compared with the placebo group as measured by BILAG flare, and SLE flare index (SFI). 
The number of subjects with SELENA SLEDAI scores of 0-3 at baseline (thereby making the subject 
unable to achieve a response of ≥4 points) was slightly imbalanced at 3, 5, and 8 in the placebo, 
1 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups, respectively. 
Baseline disease characteristics – Biomarker measurements 
Subjects who had either a positive ANA titer (≥1:80) or a positive anti-dsDNA result (≥30 IU/mL) were 
balanced across treatment groups. Detectable BLyS levels were present in 99% of all subjects. Once 
subjects are dosed with belimumab, high levels of circulating belimumab do not allow accurate 
measurement of free BLyS; therefore, on-treatment data were not considered informative and were 
not analyzed. 
A few differences in baseline disease characteristics among the groups were noted. The proportion of 
subjects who were CRP positive (> 3 mg/L) was higher in the 1 mg/kg group (46%) compared with the 
placebo group (35%) (p = 0.0129). 
Baseline Concomitant Medications 
The most common (>10% in all groups) concomitant medications for SLE at baseline included the 
following: glucocorticoids (76%), antimalarials (63%), other immunosuppressives (56%), NSAIDs 
(41%), angiotensin pathway antihypertensives (25%), and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (10%) and 
with balanced usage across treatment groups with a few exceptions. More subjects in the placebo 
group were receiving glucocorticoids (77% vs. 73%) as well as NSAIDs (43% vs. 37%) at baseline 
compared with the 10 mg/kg group. Also, within the therapeutic class of “other immunosuppressant,” 
there was a difference noted between the placebo group and the 10 mg/kg group in the use of 
methotrexate (22% in placebo vs. 14% in 10 mg/kg). 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 41/94
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
All subjects (including those with dosing errors) were analyzed according to their randomized group. 
In Study C1056, a total of 1,353 subjects were screened to yield 826 randomized subjects of whom 
819 received at least 1 dose of study agent (mITT).  
Around 630 (77%) of patients in all treatment groups completed the 52 weeks of treatment. The 
overall rate of premature discontinuation of study agent was 26%, 20%, and 23% in the placebo 
group, 1 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups, respectively. The most frequent reasons for 
discontinuing study agent were subject request (8.7%, 5.2%, 4.8% in placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg 
group, respectively), AE (5.8%/4.8%/7.0%), and lack of efficacy (5.5%/4.4%/5.1%). 
Outcomes and estimation for Study C1056 
Results of Primary endpoint – SRI at week 52 
A significant difference between the 10 mg/kg group and the placebo group was shown for the primary 
endpoint. The addition of belimumab 10 mg/kg to standard therapy yielded 9.41% more responders as 
compared to the placebo group (i.e. standard treatment only). Belimumab 1 mg/kg did not reach 
superiority versus placebo, but the magnitude of response was similar to that of the 10 mg/kg dose 
and numerically higher than placebo. 
Results for the components of the primary efficacy endpoint (SRI) 
Belimumab 10 mg/kg demonstrated significant improvement over placebo for the response component 
of 4-point reduction in SELENA SLEDAI (p=0.0062) only. Thus, the effect was driven by the reduction 
in disease activity as measured by the SELENA-SLEDAI score with no differences in the other 
components of the primary endpoint. One would expect that the improvement in disease activity 
should be accompanied by better results also in PGA and BILAG scores, as these are more reliable 
measures of the disease activity control and its clinical translation. On the contrary, however, for the 
1 mg/kg dose statistical significance was achieved for the PGA and BILAG components, but not for 
SELENA SLEDAI (Table below). 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 42/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One major reason for being classified as having a lack of response was medication failures. Subjects 
who required changes in background SLE medications beyond those permitted by protocol were 
declared treatment failures/non-responders. An unbalance between the groups was observed in that 
respect, with more subjects in the placebo group being classified as medication failures. This group 
included subjects who met all 3 response criteria indicating that a response could be achieved by 
increasing SOC. 
To further elucidate this issue and to clarify whether a similar responder rate could be achieved by a 
more optimized baseline treatment, the applicant was requested during the assessment procedure to 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 43/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
perform additional responder analyses of the primary endpoint. The additional responder analyses 
should allow different levels of adjustment of concomitant medication without subjects being classified 
as having lack of response. 
The results of those analyses as provided by the Applicant are summarized in the table below where 
any medication violation was allowed. 
Results for Major secondary endpoints (C1056) 
The results of the major secondary endpoints in study C1056 are summarized in the table below. 
Only in one of the major secondary endpoints (i.e. ≥4 point reduction from baseline in SELENA SLEDAI 
score) a significant improvement over placebo was shown for the recommended dose of 10 mg/kg. No 
dose-response relationship was identified. 
Reductions (indicating improvement) in mean percent change and mean change from baseline in PGA 
at Week 24 were comparable across groups with no significant differences. The mean percent change 
was -26.18, -28.14 and -27.57 in the placebo, 1mg/kg group and 10mg/kg group, respectively. 
In the patient reported outcome (mean change in SF-36 Health Survey PCS score at Week 24) no 
differences were seen between active and placebo groups (p=0.3848 in the 1mg/kg group, p=0.6601 
in the 10mg/kg group). 
Table. 
 Results for major secondary efficacy endpoints – C1056 
SELENA SLEDAI ≥4point reduction from baseline 
at Week 52 
Response 
Observed difference vs placebo 
OR (95% CI)1 vs placebo 
P-value1 
PGA change from baseline at Week 24 
Placebo 
N=275 
1 mg/kg 
N=271 
10 mg/kg 
N=273 
98 (35.6%)  
116 (42.8%) 
128 (46.9%) 
- 
- 
- 
7.17%  
11.25% 
1.36 (0.96, 1.93)  
1.63 (1.15, 2.32) 
0.0869 
0.0062 
Mean ± SE 
-0.49 ± 0.04 
-0.47 ± 0.04 
-0.44 ± 0.03 
Median (Min, Max) 
LS Mean ± SE2 
Treatment differences (95% CI)2 vs 
placebo 
P-value2 
-0.51 (-2.10, 1.53) 
-0.42 (-2.40, 1.68) 
-0.42 (-2.13, 1.38) 
-0.49 ± 0.05 
-0.49 ± 0.06 
-0.48 ± 0.05 
- 
- 
-0.00 (-0.09, 0.09) 
0.01 (-0.08, 0.10) 
0.9545 
0.7987 
Prednisone reduction by ≥ 25% from baseline to  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 44/94
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
≤7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 523 
N 
Response 
Observed difference vs placebo 
OR (95% CI)1 vs placebo 
P-value1 
SF-36 PCS score change from baseline at Week 24 
126 
16 (12.7%) 
- 
- 
- 
130 
25 (19.2%) 
6.53% 
120 
20 (16.7%) 
3.97% 
1.57 (0.78, 3.14) 
1.26 (0.61, 2.60) 
0.2034  
0.5323 
N 
Mean ± SE 
Median (Min, Max) 
LS Mean ± SE2 
Treatment differences (95% CI)2 vs 
placebo 
P-value2 
274 
270 
269 
3.36 ± 0.51 
3.78 ± 0.46 
3.22 ± 0.43 
3.03 (-27.48, 26.62) 
3.21 (-20.75, 29.05) 
2.66 (-23.57, 25.49) 
5.63 ± 0.74 
6.16 ± 0.75 
5.36 ± 0.72 
- 
- 
0.53 (-0.67, 1.74) 
-0.27 (-1.48, 0.94) 
0.3848 
0.6601 
1  Odds Ratio (95% confidence interval) and p-value were from logistic regression for the comparison between each 
belimumab dose and placebo with covariates, including baseline SELENA SLEDAI (≤ 9 vs ≥ 10), baseline proteinuria 
level (< 2 g/24 hour vs ≥ 2 g/24 hour equivalent) and race (African descent or indigenous-American descent vs other). 
2  All statistics, including the difference in LSM (least square means), were from ANCOVA model for the comparison 
between each belimumab dose and placebo, adjusted for the covariates in footnote 1 and baseline PGA score. 
Includes only subjects with baseline prednisone > 7.5 mg/day. 
3 
No clinically relevant benefit in regard to time to first flare or frequency of flares could be shown for 
the recommended treatment dose of belimumab. Although numerically shorter in the belimumab 
groups, the median time to 1st response (112-113 days) was not significantly different from placebo 
(119 days). No significant difference were seen for the recommended treatment dose of 10 mg/kg as 
compared to placebo in percentage of subjects whose average prednisone dose has been reduced by 
≥25% from baseline to ≤7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 52 and no dose-response relationship 
was seen. 
Response rate at Week 76 in study C1056 
In study C1056, placebo-controlled treatment with belimumab was continued through 18 month. 
Although numerically higher (6%) in the 10 mg/kg group, the result for SRI was no longer statistically 
significant at Week 76. Similar results were achieved with regard to reduction of average prednisone 
dose and flares with small numerical differences not reaching statistical significance for the proposed 
treatment dose (10 mg/kg belimumab).  
As observed at Week 52, subjects with higher baseline disease or serological activity tended to respond 
better to belimumab, relative to placebo at Week 76, than did subjects with lower degrees of activity. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 45/94
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to first overall flare was evaluated over 76 weeks and the proportion of patients with flares, and 
severe flares, was high in all treatment groups. 
Ancillary analyses 
Numerous pre-planned subgroup analyses have been performed by the Applicant. Overall, the 
response rate in subgroups was generally consistent with those observed in the overall population. A 
significant treatment-by-subgroup interaction for both belimumab treatment groups vs. placebo was 
observed for the race stratification factor (AIA race vs. other). The treatment-by-race interaction was 
driven by a differential response rate among placebo-treated subjects (49% for subjects of AIA race 
vs. 28% for subjects of other race) as the response rates among the belimumab 1 and 10 mg/kg 
subjects were comparable in both subgroups (40-44%). In the black subgroup, which comprises 
approximately one half of the AIA subgroup, the week 52 response was 39%, 30% and 33% in the 
placebo, 1 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg groups respectively. During the procedure the Applicant was 
requested to present these data in detail and discuss on the causes and potential implications in terms 
of applicability of the results to the EU population.  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 46/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In its response, the Applicant postulated that the differences observed in the effect of belimumab 
across races (particularly the lower effect in black patients) might be explained by differences in 
baseline disease activity rather than on true differences in the treatment effect explained by the race 
itself. In addition, the Applicant will conduct a specific study in black patients in the post-marketing 
setting. 
To address concerns regarding the modest benefit/effect observed, particularly in study C1056, 
additional analyses were requested to further elucidate the magnitude of the treatment effect, 
maintenance of effect over time and whether or not belimumab would provide true clinical benefit 
when used as add on treatment in patients with optimized SOC.  
An alternative responder analysis utilizing a more stringent endpoint was requested. The alternative 
responder analysis required a reduction of at least 6 point or a score ≤2on the SLEDAI component. The 
result of this analysis showed an effect size similar to or more pronounced than the results for the 
protocol specified primary endpoint (4 point improvement) (Table below). In particular, a statistically 
significant difference was observed at week 76. 
Table. 
Adjusted relative risks and risk differences for an SRI response using a 6 point 
reduction or score of less than 2 in SELENA SLEDAI 
C1056 
Response 
(%) 
Placebo 
N=275 
57 (20.73%) 
Week 52 
1mg/kg 
N=271 
80 
(29.52%) 
10mg/kg 
N=273 
88 (32.23%) 
Placebo 
N=275 
58 
(21.09%) 
Week 76 
1mg/kg 
N=271 
75 
(27.68%) 
10mg/kg 
N=273 
83 
(30.40%) 
1.4 
(1.05,1.87) 
p=0.0212 
1.55 
(1.17,2.06) 
p=0.0023 
1.3 
(0.97,1.75) 
p=0.0762 
7.68 
(0.8,14.55) 
p=0.0286 
RR 
(95% CI)  
P-value1 
Adj Risk 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
P-value2 
1 Relative risk (95% confidence interval) and p-value were from a log binomial model for the comparison between 
each belimumab dose and placebo with covariates, including baseline SELENA SLEDAI (<=9 vs >=10), baseline 
proteinuria level (<2g/24hour vs >=2g/24 hour equivalent) and race (African descent or indigenous-American 
descent vs other) 
2 Adjusted risk difference (95% confidence interval) and p-value were from a binomial regression comparing each 
belimumab dose and placebo with covariates, including baseline SELENA SLEDAI (<=9 vs >=10), baseline 
proteinuria level (<2g/24hour vs >=2g/24 hour equivalent) and race (African descent or indigenous-American 
descent vs other) 
5.43 
(-1.43,12.28) 
p=0.1208 
9.82 
(2.76,16.87) 
p=0.0064 
1.45 
(1.09,1.93) 
p=0.0106 
8.18 
(1.15,15.21) 
p=0.0225 
To further demonstrate the robustness of the primary efficacy analysis the applicant was requested to 
present cumulative distribution plots for the percent change in SELENA SLEDAI score, which represent 
the primary measure of efficacy in the composite endpoint SRI. 
Consistent with the additional analyses, a 10-15 percentage difference between belimumab 10 mg and 
placebo was demonstrated for a wide range of improvement on the SELENA SLEDAI component of the 
primary endpoint.  
Similarly the difference between 10 mg/kg and placebo was more pronounced in subjects with baseline 
SELENA SLEDAI score >10, and anti-dsDNA >30 IU/mL. These findings indicate a better treatment 
effect in subjects with high disease activity. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 47/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To further elucidate the issue of diminished effect over time, efficacy was evaluated in certain high 
activity subgroup, selected by the Applicant. The SRI response were analysed in each of these 
following baseline subgroups; SELENA SLEDAI >10, Positive anti-dsDNA and low C3 or low C4 (low C), 
Low C and use of corticosteroids, and Low C. 
In these high activity subgroups the magnitude of effect at week 76, was more pronounced (about 8 to 
12 percentages) than seen for the overall study population. 
One post-hoc exploratory subgroup (baseline steroid use) yielded a significant treatment-by-subgroup 
interaction for the comparison of 10 mg/kg group vs. placebo. Response rates in subjects taking 
steroids at baseline were 33%, 39%, and 47% in the placebo, 1 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg groups, 
respectively, while response rates in subjects not taking steroids at baseline were 38%, 45%, and 
33%, respectively. 
Results of Study C1057 (BLISS-52) 
Participant flow 
Figure 
Summary of subject disposition (C1057) 
Recruitment 
Patients were recruited in a total of 92 study centers across Europe (11), Asia Pacific (41) and Latin 
America (40). The study period was from 25 May 2007 (1st subject randomized) to 19 May 2009 (last 
subject complete 8-week follow-up). 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 48/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol for study C1057 was amended twice. The main purpose of Amendment 01 was to correct 
an error noted in the primary efficacy analysis and to modify the SELENA SLEDAI scoring of proteinuria 
at screening. Amendment 02 introduced modifications to the follow-up immunogenicity testing to 
maintain the study blind as well as some modifications to the exclusion criteria and variables to the 
secondary efficacy analysis. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographics 
Subject demographics were generally comparable across treatment groups. The population was 
predominantly Asian (38%), Alaska Native or American Indian from North/Central/South America 
(32%), and white (27%) with only few black subjects enrolled (4%). As expected, most subjects were 
female (95%). The mean age was 36 years (range 18-71 years), with 1.3% of subjects 65 years or 
older. Subjects ≤45 accounted for 82% of subjects, and >45-<65 for 18%. 
With regard to race, study C1057 differed from  study C1056 which included more Black African 
American and Caucasians and less Alaska native or American Indian subjects. 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
The mean duration of SLE was 5.9 years in the placebo group compared with 5.0 years in each 
belimumab group. Otherwise, treatment groups were well balanced. The baseline level of disease 
activity was relatively high, with approximately 53% of subjects presenting with a SELENA SLEDAI 
score of 10 points or greater and a mean score of 9.8. 
According to the index, the most common signs and/or symptoms that subjects presented with at 
baseline in all groups were increased DNA binding (74%), low complement (66%), rash (62%), 
arthritis (59%), alopecia (52%), mucosal ulcers (21%), and proteinuria (17%). Likewise, moderate to 
severe BILAG organ system involvement at baseline (A or B score) was similar in the belimumab and 
placebo groups, with the most common organ systems involved including mucocutaneous (59%), 
musculoskeletal (53%), hematology (19%), and renal (14%). 
At Day 0, a positive ANA titer (≥1:80) was present in 94% of subjects, while a positive anti-dsDNA 
result (≥ 30 IU/mL) was present in 75% of subjects. A total of 98% subjects were positive for ANA 
and/or anti-dsDNA. Complement levels (C3 and C4) were less than the lower limit of normal (LLN) in 
49% and 59% of subjects, respectively. Detectable BLyS levels were present in 97% of subjects. CRP 
was positive (>3mg/L) in 40% of patients at baseline 
Baseline Concomitant Medications 
The most common concomitant medications for SLE at baseline included the following: glucocorticoids 
(96%), antimalarials (67%), other immunosuppressives (42%), with balanced usage across treatment 
groups. More subjects in the placebo group (70%) were receiving antimalarials compared with the 
10 mg/kg group (64%). Approximately 70% of subjects in each belimumab group were receiving 
systemic corticosteroids at a prednisone or prednisone-equivalent dose >7.5 mg/day at baseline 
compared with 67% of placebo subjects. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 49/94
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
In total, 1,266 subjects were screened to yield 867 randomized subjects of whom 865 received at least 
one dose of study agent (mITT): 287 subjects in placebo group, 288 to the 1 mg/kg group, and 290 to 
the 10 mg/kg group. 
The overall rate of premature discontinuation of study agent was 21% in the placebo group and 17% 
for each of the 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups. The most frequent reasons for discontinuing 
study agent were AE (6.6% v.s.5.2%) and lack of efficacy (5.6% vs. 4.1%) in the placebo and 10 
mg/kg group, respectively. 
Outcomes and estimation for Study C1057 
Results of Primary endpoint – SRI at week 52 
The number of responders was significantly superior to placebo in both the 10 mg/kg and the 1 mg/kg 
belimumab group. The 10 mg/kg dose of belimumab demonstrated superiority vs. placebo (all p-values 
<0.003) in each of the sensitivity analyses (LOCF, PP, Completer response). In this study, the 
magnitude of the treatment effect in the 10 mg/kg group was greater than what was observed in study 
C1056. 
Results for the components of the primary efficacy endpoint (SRI) 
Both 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab demonstrated significant improvement over placebo for the 
SELENA SLEDAI and PGA component for the responder index. Differences for the component “no new 
BILAG 1A/2B domain scores” was significant in the 10 mg/kg group but not for the 1 mg/kg group. 
Both 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab demonstrated significant improvement over placebo for the 
SELENA SLEDAI and PGA component. Differences for the component “no new BILAG 1A/2B domain 
scores” was significant in the 10 mg/kg group but not for the 1 mg/kg group. In contrast to study 
C1056 a tendency of a dose-response relationship was seen. 
For the SELENA SLEDAI component, which is the primary measure of efficacy, the difference between 
the 10mg/kg group and placebo was 12.3%. The difference in the other two components, representing 
no worsening, was smaller and the majority of study subject reach this criteria in all treatment groups.  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 50/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main reasons for lack of response in all groups was less than a 4 point reduction in SELENA 
SLEDAI followed by drop-out and medication failures. In each of these categories, there was a dose 
response trend with the highest percentage of subjects failing in the placebo group and the lowest 
percentage in the 10 mg/kg group. 
Results for Major secondary endpoints (C1057) 
The results of the major secondary endpoints in study C1057 are summarized in the table below. 
Table. 
 Results of major secondary efficacy endpoints – C1057 
Placebo 
N = 287 
1 mg/kg 
N = 288 
10 mg/kg 
N = 290 
SELENA SLEDAI ≥4 point reduction from baseline 
at Week 52 
Response 
132 (46.0%) 
153 (53.1%) 
169 (58.3%) 
Observed difference vs placebo 
OR (95% CI)1 vs placebo 
P-value1 
PGA change from baseline at Week 24 
- 
- 
7.13 
12.28 
1.51 ( 1.07, 2.14) 
1.71 ( 1.21, 2.41) 
0.0189 
0.0024 
Mean ± SE 
-0.39 ± 0.03 
-0.44 ± 0.03 
-0.54 ± 0.03 
Median (Min, Max) 
LS Mean ± SE2 
Treatment differences (95% CI)2 vs 
placebo 
P-value2 
-0.33 (-2.07, 0.99) 
-0.42 (-2.04, 1.11) 
-0.48 (-2.13, 1.62) 
-0.35 ± 0.04 
-0.39 ± 0.04 
-0.50 ± 0.04 
- 
- 
-0.05 (-0.13, 0.04) 
-0.15 (-0.23, -0.07) 
0.2712 
0.0003 
Prednisone reduction by ≥ 25% from baseline to  
≤7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 523 
N 
Response 
Observed difference vs placebo 
OR (95% CI)1 vs placebo 
P-value1 
SF-36 PCS score change from baseline  
at Week 24 
N 
Mean ± SE 
Median (Min, Max) 
LS Mean ± SE2 
Treatment differences (95% CI)2 vs 
placebo 
P-value2 
192 
204 
204 
23 (12.0%) 
42 (20.6%) 
38 (18.6%) 
- 
8.61 
6.65 
1.89 ( 1.08, 3.31) 
1.75 ( 0.99, 3.08) 
0.0252 
0.0526 
286 
283 
284 
3.64 ± 0.42 
3.65 ± 0.43 
3.58 ± 0.46 
3.11 (-22.20, 32.93) 
2.68 (-22.72, 33.80) 
3.06 (-24.41, 30.24) 
3.26 ± 0.54 
3.39 ± 0.53 
3.34 ± 0.55 
0.13 (-0.95, 1.21) 
0.08 (-1.00, 1.15) 
0.8127 
0.8870 
1  Odds Ratio (95% confidence interval) and p-value were from logistic regression for the comparison between each 
belimumab dose and placebo with covariates, including baseline SELENA SLEDAI (≤ 9 vs ≥ 10), baseline proteinuria 
level (<2 g/24 hour vs ≥2 g/24 hour equivalent) and race (African descent or indigenous-American descent vs other). 
2  All statistics, including the difference in LSM (least square means), were from ANCOVA model for the comparison 
between each belimumab dose and placebo, adjusted for the covariates in footnote 1 and baseline PGA score. 
Includes only subjects with baseline prednisone > 7.5 mg/day. 
3 
Percentage of subjects with >4 point reduction from baseline in SELENA SLEDAI score at Week52  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 51/94
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
As already presented, a significantly greater percentage of subjects in both the 1 mg/kg and in the 
10 mg/kg belimumab vs. placebo groups had reduced SLE disease activity as measured by ≥4 point 
reduction from baseline in SELENA SLEDAI score. 
At Week 24, a significantly higher percentage of subjects with SELENA SLEDAI reduction was observed 
or 10 mg/kg belimumab versus placebo (60% vs. 52%, p = 0.0434), which was maintained through 
Week 52. In the 1 mg/kg belimumab group, significant improvement over placebo was observed at 
Weeks 40 to 52. 
Mean change/percent change in PGA at Week 24 
Both belimumab groups achieved a significant reduction for percent change from baseline in PGA 
compared with placebo at Week 24. 
Percentage of subjects whose average prednisone dose has been reduced by ≥25% from baseline to ≤
7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 52 
The percentage of subjects whose average prednisone dose was reduced by ≥ 25% from baseline to ≤
7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 52 was significantly higher in the 1 mg/kg group but only 
numerically higher in the 10 mg/kg group vs. placebo. 
The mean number of cumulative days of daily prednisone dose ≤7.5 mg/day and/or reduced by 50% 
from baseline was significantly greater in the 10 mg/kg group vs. placebo by Week 40 and persisted to 
Week 52 and was numerically greater (difference >5 days) in the 1 mg/kg group vs. placebo by Week 
36 and persisted to Week 52. 
In contrast to study C1056, a small difference in prednisone reductions in favor of the active groups 
was seen over time.  
Mean change in SF-36 Health Survey PCS score at Week 24 
In the patient reported endpoint, mean change in SF-36 Health Survey PCS score at Week 24, no 
benefit could be demonstrated for the active groups (p=0.8127 in the 1mg/kg group and p=0.8870 in 
the 10 mg/kg group). 
The median time to 1st response, although numerically shorter in the belimumab groups (84-85 days), 
was not significantly different from placebo (112 days). The percentage of subjects whose average 
prednisone dose was reduced by ≥ 25% from baseline to ≤ 7.5 mg/day during Weeks 40 through 52 
was significantly higher in the 1 mg/kg group (difference=8.61%, p=0.0252) but only numerically 
higher in the 10 mg/kg group (difference =6.65%, p=0.0526) vs. placebo. 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses for pre-specified major subgroups 
Response rates observed in the subgroups were generally consistent with those observed in the overall 
population. The only subgroup with a significant treatment-by-subgroup interaction for both 
belimumab treatment groups vs. placebo was baseline SELENA SLEDAI score. The difference in 
response rate in belimumab-treated groups vs. placebo was greater in subjects with baseline SELENA 
SLEDAI score ≥10. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 52/94
 
 
 
 
 
As for study C1056, an alternative responder analysis utilizing a more stringent endpoint was 
performed, requiring a reduction of at least 6 point or a score ≤2on the SLEDAI component (see Table 
below). 
Table. 
Adjusted relative risks and risk differences for an SRI response using a 6 point 
reduction or score of less than 2 in SELENA SLEDAI 
C1057 
Response (%) 
Placebo 
N=287 
85 
(29.62%) 
Week 52 
1 mg/kg 
N=288 
109 
(37.85%) 
10 mg/kg 
N=290 
129 
(44.8%) 
1.52 
(1.24,1.87) 
p<0.0001 
1.41 
(1.14,1.75) 
p=0.0017 
RR 
(95% CI) 
P-value1 
Adj Risk Difference 
(95% CI) 
P-value2 
1 Relative risk (95% confidence interval) and p-value were from a log binomial model for the 
comparison between each belimumab dose and placebo with covariates, including baseline SELENA 
SLEDAI (<=9 vs >=10), baseline proteinuria level (<2g/24hour vs >=2g/24 hour equivalent) and 
race (African descent or indigenous-American descent vs other) 
2 Adjusted risk difference (95% confidence interval) and p-value were from a binomial regression 
comparing each belimumab dose and placebo with covariates, including baseline SELENA SLEDAI 
(<=9 vs >=10), baseline proteinuria level (<2g/24hour vs >=2g/24 hour equivalent) and race 
(African descent or indigenous-American descent vs other) 
8.49 
(0.97,16.01) 
p=0.0269 
12.5 
(5,20) 
p=0.0011 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 53/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Summary of Efficacy for trial C1056 (BLISS-76) 
Title: A Phase 3, Multi-Center, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, 76-Week Study to 
Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Belimumab (HGS1006, LymphoStat-B™), a Fully Human 
Monoclonal Anti-BLyS Antibody, in Subjects with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) 
Study identifier 
HGS1006-C1056 (EudraCT Number: 2006–005177–21) 
Design 
Phase 3, multi-center, randomized (1:1:1), double-blind, placebo-controlled 
Duration of main phase: 
76 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Superiority; the response rate for 10 mg/kg belimumab group (or for both 1 
mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups) is superior to placebo 
1 mg/kg 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Database lock 
10 mg/kg 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
Response 
rate (SRI2) 
at Week 52 
Major 
secondary 
endpoint 
Major 
secondary 
endpoint 
Major 
secondary 
endpoint 
Major 
secondary 
endpoint 
RR at Week 
76 
≥4 point 
reduction in 
SS at Week 
52 
PGA at 
Week 24 
CS 
reduction 
Standard therapy + 1 mg/kg belimumab; 
72 weeks; N=271 
Standard therapy + 10 mg/kg belimumab; 
72 weeks;N=273 
Standard therapy + placebo; 
72 weeks;N=275 
-  ≥4 point reduction from baseline in 
SELENA SLEDAI score, 
AND 
-  No worsening (increase of <0.30 points 
from baseline) in PGA,  
AND 
-  No new BILAG A organ domain score or 2 
new BILAG B organ domain scores 
compared with baseline at the time of 
assessment (i.e. at Week 52). 
Response  rate  at  Week  76  (SELENA  SLEDAI 
≥4  point  reduction  and  no  worsening  as 
measured by PGA and BILAG) 
%  of  subjects  with  ≥4  point  reduction  in 
SELENA SLEDAI at Week 52 
Mean change in PGA at Week 24 
% Subjects with prednisone (equivalent) 
reduction ≥25% from baseline to ≤7.5 
mg/day during Weeks 40–52 (in subjects 
whose prednisone equivalent dose was 
>7.5 mg/day at baseline) 
SF-36 
Major 
secondary 
endpoint 
2 database locks (Week 52 and Week 76 analysis) 
Mean change in SF-36 PCS at Week 24  
Primary Analysis 
Modified intent to treat (mITT); Week 52 and 76 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
2 SRI – SLE responder index 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 54/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability (Week 52 
analysis) 
Treatment group 
Placebo 
1 mg/kg 
10 mg/kg  
Number of subject 
N=275 
33.8 
Response rate 
(%) 
OR (95% CI) vs 
placebo 
N=271 
40.6 
N=273 
43.2 
1.34 
(094, 1.91) 
1.52 
(1.07, 2.15) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(Response at 
Week 52) 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo 
Observed difference 
9.41% 
P-value (logistic regression)  0.0207 
Comparison groups 
1 mg/kg vs placebo  
Observed difference 
6.77%  
P-value (logistic regression)  0.1041 
RR at Week 76 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo 
Observed difference 
6.10% 
P-value (logistic regression)  0.1323 
Comparison groups 
1 mg/kg vs placebo 
Observed difference 
6.75% 
P-value (logistic regression)  0.1050 
≥4 point 
reduction in SS at 
Week 52 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo 
Observed difference 
OR (95% CI) 
P-value 
11.25% 
1.63 (1.15, 2.32) 
0.0062 
PGA at Week 24 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo 
Treatment differences (95% 
CI) 
P-value 
0.01 (-0.08, 0.10) 
0.7987 
CS reduction 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo 
OR (95% CI) 
P-value 
1.26 (0.61, 2.60) 
0.5323 
SF-36 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo 
Treatment differences (95% 
CI) 
P-value 
-0.27 (-1.48, 0.94) 
0.6601 
Table. Summary of Efficacy for trial C1057 (BLISS-52) 
Title: A Phase 3, Multi-Center, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, 52-Week Study to 
Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Belimumab (HGS1006, LymphoStat-B™), a Fully Human 
Monoclonal Anti-BLyS Antibody, in Subjects with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) 
Study identifier 
HGS1006-C1057 (EudraCT Number: 2006–005190-21) 
Design 
Phase 3, multi-center, randomized (1:1:1), double-blind, placebo-controlled 
Duration of main phase: 
52 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 55/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Superiority; the response rate for 10 mg/kg belimumab group (or for both 1 
mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups) is superior to placebo 
1 mg/kg 
Standard therapy + 1 mg/kg belimumab; 
52 weeks; N=288 
Standard therapy + 10 mg/kg belimumab; 
52weeks;N=290 
Standard therapy + placebo; 
52 weeks;N=287 
-  ≥4 point reduction from baseline in 
SELENA SLEDAI score, 
AND 
-  No worsening (increase of <0.30 points 
from baseline) in PGA,  
AND 
-  No new BILAG A organ domain score or 2 
new BILAG B organ domain scores 
compared with baseline at the time of 
assessment (i.e. at Week 52). 
%  of  subjects  with  ≥4  point  reduction  in 
SELENA SLEDAI at Week 52 
Mean change in PGA at Week 24 
% Subjects with prednisone (equivalent) 
reduction ≥ 25% from baseline to ≤7.5 
mg/day during Weeks 40 – 52 (in subjects 
whose prednisone equivalent dose was > 7.5 
mg/day at baseline) 
Response 
rate (SRI3) 
at Week 52 
≥4 point 
reduction in 
SS at Week 
52 
PGA at 
Week 24 
CS 
reduction 
SF-36 
Mean change in SF-36 PCS at Week 24 
10 mg/kg 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
Marjor 
secondary 
endpoint 
Marjor 
secondary 
endpoint 
Marjor 
secondary 
endpoint 
Marjor 
secondary 
endpoint 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability  
Primary Analysis 
Modified intent to treat (mITT); Week 52 
Treatment group 
Placebo 
1 mg/kg 
10 mg/kg  
Number of subject 
N=287 
43.6 
Response rate 
(%) 
OR (95% CI) vs 
placebo 
N=288 
51.4 
N=290 
57.6 
1.55 
(1.10, 2.19) 
1.83 
(1.30, 2.59) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
RR at Week 52 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/kg vs placebo  
Observed difference 
14.03 
P-value (logistic 
regression) 
0.0006 
Comparison groups 
1 mg/kg vs placebo  
3 SRI – SLE responder index 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 56/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
≥4 point 
reduction in SS at 
Week 52 
Observed difference 
7.83 
P-value (logistic 
regression) 
Comparison groups 
0.0129 
10 mg/ml vs placebo 
Observed difference  
12.28 
OR (95% CI) 
1.71 (1.21, 2.41) 
P-value 
0.0024 
PGA at Week 24 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/ml vs placebo 
Treatment differences 
(95% CI) 
P-value 
-.015 (-0.23, -0.07) 
0.0003 
CS reduction 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/ml vs placebo 
OR (95% CI) 
1.75 (0.99, 3.08) 
P-value 
0.0526 
SF-36 
Comparison groups 
10 mg/ml vs placebo 
Treatment differences 
(95% CI) 
P-value 
0.08 (-1.00, 1.15) 
0.8870 
Biomarkers in Phase 3 studies 
Change in biomarkers, supporting the proposed immunomodulating function of belimumab, was shown 
in both Phase 3 trials. Findings suggesting that subjects with dysregulated B-cell function, resulting in 
autoantibody production may benefit from belimumab treatment. 
Immunoglobulins 
Reductions in immunoglobulins induced by belimumab were seen with beginning at Week 8. 
Immunoglobulin levels in the placebo group remained relatively stable over time.  
At Week 52 the IgG median percent reduction, in Study C1056, was approximately 14% in both 
belimumab groups, while IgG remained stable in the placebo group (decrease of 0.8%; p<0.0001). In 
C1057 the results were similar, with median percent IgG reductions of 14% and 16% in the 1 and 10 
mg/kg groups, respectively, compared with 3.6% reduction in the placebo group (p<0.0001). 
For IgM, the median percent reductions observed were 28% and 31% in the 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg 
groups, respectively, while values remained stable in the placebo group (decrease of 0.5%; 
p<0.0001). The IgM median percent reduction in Study C1057 was similar to that observed in C1056, 
28% and 30% in the 1 and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups, respectively, compared with a decrease of 
3.2% with placebo (p<0.0001). Likewise, significant reductions in IgA were observed by Week 52, 
median percent reductions in IgA ranged from 16-18% with belimumab compared with median percent 
reductions of 0.7% to 2.7% with placebo (p<0.0001 for all comparisons). 
Autoantibodies 
Significant decreases in anti-dsDNA with belimumab were observed from Week 8, which persisted 
through Week 52. The median percentage reduction in anti-dsDNA levels at Week 52 in the pooled 
dataset was 18-19% for belimumab with no change in the placebo group (p<0.0001). 
In addition to the effects observed in anti-dsDNA, a higher proportion of subjects receiving belimumab 
converted from seropositive to seronegative status for ANA, anti-Sm and anti-ribosomal-P antibodies. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 57/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
Complement 
There was a dose response effect with significant improvement in C3 and C4 from Week 4 with the 
belimumab 10 mg/kg dose that was sustained to Week 52. For C3 in the pooled dataset, 17%, 26% 
and 38% of subjects in the placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups with low complement 
at baseline had their complement levels recover to above the LLN by Week 52. For C4, these rates 
were 18%, 35%, and 44%, respectively. 
B- and T-cell subsets 
B- and T-cell subsets were evaluated only in C1056 in the Phase 3 program. The effect of belimumab 
on the overall population of B cells was a significant reduction compared with placebo, seen with both 
CD19+ and CD20+ B cells at Week 24 and continuing through Week 52. At Week 24, the median 
reduction in CD19+ B cells was 33% and 29% with 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab treatment, 
while the reduction of placebo was approximately 3%; at Week 52 the median reduction with 
belimumab was 48% compared to 10% with placebo. Median reductions in CD20+ B cells were similar. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Due to the reduced sample size in subgroups, subgroups analyses are presented pooled. 
Pooled analyses of the efficacy results from the two pivotal Phase 3 trials have been performed. The 
pattern of results for the pooled data on Primary and Major secondary endpoint was overall similar as 
seen for the individual studies.  
Regional subgroups 
There were differences in the response rate according to origin country, and differences in effect 
according to ethnicity cannot be ruled out. Patients from Eastern Europe as well as Americans 
excluding US/Canada had higher rates of response to belimumab as compared to patients from other 
regions. The Applicant was requested to present these data in detail and discuss on the causes and 
potential implications in terms of applicability of the results to the EU context (see table below). 
Subjects in the US/Canada had lower response rates in all 3 treatment groups compared with all other 
regions. This less robust response was believed by the Applicant to be related to the lower baseline 
disease activity in the US, as measured by multiple measures including SELENA SLEDAI, steroid use 
and serological activity, compared with other regions. Importantly, subjects in the US with higher 
disease activity (SELENA SLEDAI ≥ 10), respond similarly to subjects from other regions and to 
subjects overall across the two trials. These findings further support the hypothesis that response to 
belimumab is associated with greater baseline disease activity. Subjects with higher disease activity 
tend to have a more robust response. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 58/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in special populations 
To date, no studies in the paediatric population have been performed with belimumab.  
No specific studies have been performed in elderly. Data on patients >65 years are limited to <1.6% 
of the population studied in clinical trials and the efficacy and safety of Benlysta in the elderly has not 
yet been established. This is reflected in the SPC, together with a statement that treatment of elderly 
patients is not recommended unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risks. Furthermore, the 
limited data in elderly patients is included as important missing information in the RMP including the 
appropriate pharmacovigilance measures. 
Supportive studies 
Long-term continuation trials in SLE 
The long-term continuation trials conducted with belimumab in SLE include LBSL99, C1066, and 
C1074. LBSL99 is the ongoing Phase 2 continuation trial for study subjects completing the Phase 2 
study LBSL02. Studies C1066 and C1074 are ongoing Phase 3, multi-center, continuation studies to 
evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of belimumab in subjects with SLE. The safety data 
obtained from these trials are discussed in the safety section below. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A Phase 2 dose-response study conducted in subjects with active SLE evaluated belimumab doses of 1, 
4 and 10 mg/kg, or placebo in combination with standard of care. The study failed to achieve superior 
efficacy in the co-primary endpoints defined as percent reduction in SELENA SLEDAI score at Week 24 
and time to first SLE flare (SFI) over 52 weeks. The mean percent decrease in SELENA SLEDAI score at 
Week 24 was numerically better than placebo for the 1 and 10 mg/kg groups with an average of 
approximately 23% each, compared with 17% in the placebo group, but the difference did not reach 
statistical significance. No dose-response relationship was evident in the dose-range of 1 to 10 mg/kg. 
The 4 mg/kg group had a mean percent decrease of 11% which was numerically lower than placebo. 
Further, belimumab did not show benefit as measured by the pre specified major secondary endpoints.  
While the Phase 2 study did not provide strong support for the efficacy of belimumab, a treatment 
effect was observed in post-hoc analyses in subjects with the certain baseline disease characteristics 
such as anti-dsDNA antibody positivity, low C3, low C4, and prednisone dose >7.5 mg/day at baseline. 
Based on this information the Phase 3 program was designed to include a patient population with these 
baseline characteristics. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 59/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The design of the pivotal Phase 3 studies had been agreed in a formal scientific advice procedure with 
the CHMP and was overall considered acceptable. The inclusion criteria were considered well justified; 
the requirement of autoantibody positivity focused on patients with dysregulated B cell immunity. The 
use of more a strict SELENA SLEDAI score ensured the inclusion of patients with more severe disease 
profile than in the Phase 2 trial. The chosen exclusion criteria were considered reasonable from a 
clinical point of view as they excluded patients in need of a rapid onset and well established treatment 
for the control of their disease activity (e.g. active lupus nephritis or CNS disease).  
For the efficacy evaluation, the Applicant presented a composite endpoint, the SLE responder index 
(SRI) which is composed of three established tools. In view of the complexity of SLE it was agreed that 
a single tool might not be sufficient to adequately assess disease activity of individual patients. 
Furthermore, it is important to show that any therapy that improves disease in one organ system does 
not worsen disease elsewhere. The SRI had been agreed in a scientific advice procedure, and CHMP 
endorsed the choice of the included components in the SRI. 
Concomitant medication rules were agreed with FDA and EMA prior to initiation of the studies and are 
considered acceptable. Although some restrictions were established for CS use during the clinical trial, 
CS tapering was not a key objective of the study. However, CS tapering was a secondary endpoint and 
is considered a key variable for the overall assessment of the additional benefits of belimumab. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Although both Phase 3 trials achieved a significant higher responder rate for the 10 mg/kg dose, 
overall the results in C1056 are less convincing and the results in study C1057 shows a more robust 
treatment difference between active and placebo groups. In study C1056, belimumab 10 mg/kg in 
addition to standard therapy yielded 9.41% more responders at Week 52 as compared to standard 
therapy only. In study C1057 14% more responders were seen. 
The rather modest benefit shown in Study C1056 was mainly driven by the effect on a highly sensitive 
score (SELENA-SLEDAI) of disease activity, with a questionable dose-response effect and, more 
importantly, without a clear clinical translation on more straightforward interpretable variables (PGA, 
BILAG). This yielded a number of questions regarding the efficacy of belimumab and alternative 
analyses of the Phase 3 studies were requested by the CHMP during the assessment procedure. 
An alternative responder analysis utilizing a more stringent endpoint was therefore performed that 
required a reduction of at least 6 point or a score ≤2 on the SLEDAI component. The results were 
similar to the results in the protocol specified analysis. To further demonstrate the robustness of the 
primary efficacy analysis the applicant was requested to present cumulative distribution plots for the 
percent change in SELENA SLEDAI score, which represent the primary measure of efficacy in the 
composite endpoint SRI. Consistent with the additional analyses, a 10-15 percentage difference 
between belimumab 10 mg and placebo was demonstrated for a wide range of improvement on the 
SELENA SLEDAI component of the primary endpoint. 
Following the initial evaluation of data, efficacy on immunological parameters was established but 
there was doubt whether the small benefit observed on the SELENA-SLEDAI score would translate into 
clinical benefit. To clarify to which extent efficacy was related to other criteria than improvement in 
immunological parameters, a responder analysis was performed in which patients with improvement in 
immunological parameters only were counted as non-responders. The presented results were 
consistent with the results of the primary analyses. Thus, the difference between groups is not only 
related to laboratory or immunological changes.  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 60/94
 
 
 
 
In both studies one major reason for being classified as having a “lack of response” was medication 
failures. Subjects who required changes in background SLE medication beyond that permitted by 
protocol were declared treatment failures/non-responders. An imbalance between the groups was 
observed in that respect as more subjects were classified as “medication failures” in the placebo 
compared to the active groups. To evaluate whether a similar responder rate could be achieved by 
optimizing baseline therapy, additional responder analyses were performed by the Applicant. The 
overall results were consistent with the results of the primary analyses. The imbalance in medication 
failures between active and placebo groups did not seem to have any major impact on the difference in 
responder rate. 
Subgroup analyses showed a higher response rates in subjects with baseline SELENA SLEDAI score 
> 10 points. Further, an overall trend of higher response rate is also seen in subject with signs of more 
active disease at baseline (high baseline steroid use, low C3, C4 and anti-dsDNA >30IU/ml). This trend 
of higher response rate, was further demonstrated by additional analyses in certain high activity 
subgroups (SELENA SLEDAI>10, positive anti-dsDNA and low C3/C4, low C3/C4 and use of steroids, 
and low C3/C4). Based on the results in high activity subgroups it was concluded that an effect that 
could be of value for some patients had been demonstrated. During the procedure, the Applicants 
presented the efficacy results for the subgroup of patients with anti-dsDNA antibodies and low levels of 
C3 and/or C4. In the response it was demonstrated that for this subgroup the difference between 
belimumab 10mg/kg and placebo (19.8%) was almost doubled to the difference observed for the 
overall study population (11.8%) and a significant effect on SRI (12%) was maintained to week 76. A 
larger difference was also seen for other endpoints such as BILAG, PGA and severe flare. 
The effect of belimumab has been shown in a population with mainly mucocutaneous and 
musculoskeletal involvement and the effect of belimumab on key target SLE organs has not been 
established. The reason for not including patients with active nephritis or CNS involvement in the 
Phase 3 trials seems justified as these patients require a rapid onset and well-established treatment for 
the control of disease activity; however, this does not change the fact that data in this aspect is 
insufficient for conclusions on belimumab effect on key target organs. A trial specifically evaluating 
safety and efficacy of belimumab in lupus nephritis patients is planned, but does not cover for the 
current lack of data in more vital organ domains. Therefore, CHMP concluded that the effect of 
belimumab has only been demonstrated in a patient population with mainly musculoskeletal, vascular, 
mucocutaneous and haematological involvement. Whether the observed modest effect would remain in 
patients with other key organ involvement (mainly renal and CNS) is unknown and is clearly pointed 
out in the SPC. Furthermore, a study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of belimumab in patients with 
lupus nephritis will be conducted as a post-approval commitment. 
In study C1056, placebo-controlled treatment with belimumab was continued through 18 months (76 
weeks). The result for SRI at Week 76 was not statistically significant and a difference of 
approximately 6% responders between the proposed treatment dose of 10 mg/kg and placebo was 
seen. Similar results were achieved with regards to reduction in average prednisone dose and flares, 
which showed small numerical differences not reaching statistical significance for the proposed 
belimumab dose. 
The findings of C1056 at Week 76 raised concerns about maintenance of effect and the Applicant was 
requested to further substantiate long-term efficacy. To further elucidate the issue of diminished effect 
over time, efficacy was evaluated in certain subgroups of patients with high disease activity (SELENA 
SLEDAI >10, Positive anti-dsDNA and low C3 or low C4 (low C), Low C and use of corticosteroids, Low 
C). In these high activity subgroups the magnitude of effect at Week 76 was more pronounced than 
seen for the overall study population. Additionally, a sustained significant effect was shown at Week 76 
in analyses with more strict response criteria which gives some support of a maintained effect.  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 61/94
 
 
 
 
The CHMP questioned the applicability of the baseline therapy and the high use of corticosteroids (CS) 
in the SLE studies. The chronic corticosteroid use may not be considered in line with current clinical 
practice in some EU Member States. Further discussion on the use of corticosteroids as part of 
standard of care in the treatment of SLE took place at an ad hoc expert meeting. At this meeting, the 
experts acknowledged the variability of CS use across Europe, which is caused by many factors 
including region, speciality of treating physician or type of treatment setting/centers. Furthermore, it 
was confirmed that the patients included in the belimumab Phase 3 trials were required to have active 
disease, i.e. were on CS by definition. There was broad agreement amongst the experts that a steroid 
sparing effect is of great importance and has a significant impact on the patient’s quality of life.  
In conclusion, the experts were not concerned with high use of CS in the belimumab clinical trials and 
did not consider the pattern of CS use to impact on the ability to extrapolate the study results to the 
intended EU target population. 
Differences in the response rates varied according to race; however, the available data was considered 
insufficient to draw firm conclusions. CHMP therefore requested that the ad hoc expert group discuss 
the question whether the differences in magnitude of effect of Benlysta observed between races could 
be explained as a random finding or if racial factors could explain this difference in response. In their 
answer, the experts stated that differences in response across racial groups are known for other drugs 
used in SLE. According to the experts, however, this did not have a significant impact on the treatment 
decisions in clinical practice. Nevertheless, the experts confirmed that they would like to see further 
data with belimumab to elucidate this phenomenon. In conclusion, the issue of a possible difference in 
effect between ethnicities was not of concern to the experts as this is considered manageable in clinical 
practice. 
Immunogenicity was observed relatively infrequently. However, as assays sensitivity for neutralizing 
antibodies and non-specific anti-drug antibody (ADA) are limited by the presence of active drug in the 
collected samples, insight in the true occurrence of neutralizing antibodies and non-specific anti-drug 
antibody in the study population is very limited. The risk of immunogenicity will continue to be 
assessed to further investigate a possible relationship between antibody formation and treatment 
outcomes and adverse events. 
Additional expert consultation 
Following a request from the CHMP, an Ad-Hoc Expert Meeting was convened on 30 March 2011 to 
provide advice on the CHMP list of questions adopted by the CHMP at its February 2011 meeting. 
The experts were asked to comment on four questions/areas, namely the clinical relevance of the 
observed treatment effect of belimumab in the pivotal studies; the relevance of the effect seen in 
patients with higher disease activity and the feasibility to clinically define such a patient population; 
the applicability of baseline therapy and the extensive use of corticosteroids in the pivotal SLE studies, 
as well as the observed differences of effect of belimumab between ethnicities. 
Regarding the clinical relevance of the observed treatment effect, the experts agreed that a moderate 
effect of belimumab has been seen on top of other therapies in a patient population that represents the 
majority of cases in clinical practice. It was noted that patients with more severe disease (i.e. renal, 
neurological manifestations) were excluded from the study; a greater need for additional/new 
treatment options was clearly seen in these more severe patients. A more pronounced effect was seen 
in a subgroup of patients with high disease activity (i.e. SELENA SLEDAI score at baseline ≥10, anti-
dsDNA positive, low C3/C4). 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 62/94
 
 
 
 
 
While the experts considered the effect on flares (delayed time to first flare, reduced risk of severe 
flare) in this subgroup as of clinical importance, it was agreed that the available data on flare reduction 
was only indicative. It was acknowledged that the clinical development/study design was not intended 
for induction of remission, but rather maintenance therapy. 
The experts acknowledged that fatigue is of specific relevance to patients who consider this the most 
debilitating aspect of the disease and thus has a great impact on quality of life. Methodologically the 
measurement of improvement in fatigue is difficult. Nevertheless, the data for belimumab suggest a 
beneficial effect on fatigue. The improvement in fatigue scores was again more pronounced in the 
subgroup of patients with high disease activity compared to the overall population. Further data on 
fatigue from studies was requested. 
The experts concluded that generally efficacy of belimumab has been shown, if only a moderate one. 
While the expectation for the first biological drug for SLE may have been greater, also in view of the 
associated risks, the group agreed that the efficacy seen is clinically relevant for a certain subgroup of 
patients with high disease activity. The need to properly define this patient population has been 
emphasized. 
However, the experts also stressed the need for further data on safety and efficacy of belimumab 
treatment in patients with severe manifestations (e.g. lupus nephritis, CNS). Furthermore, the experts 
felt that further data was needed about secondary responses (e.g. impact on antiphospholipid antibody 
levels). Given the currently available therapies, the need to generate more data on the potential use 
during pregnancy was considered of great relevance for medical practice. 
Regarding the wording of the indication, in principle the experts concurred with an indication that 
restricts the use to patients with high disease activity. The experts agreed that ideally disease activity 
should be assessed using a validated disease index rather than laboratory values. The work currently 
ongoing in the academic setting was emphasised; at the same time the fact that these indices might 
not widely be used in clinical practice was acknowledged. 
The proposal from the company to use laboratory tests (anti-dsDNA, low C3/C4) only to define disease 
activity, rather than questionnaire, was considered acceptable for the indication wording. In addition, 
some experts felt that it would be of value to also indicate in the indication wording the use of a 
validated disease index (e.g. SELENA SLEDAI, ECLAM ) as an alternative for the assessment of disease 
activity since both indices were considered simple to use (in contrast to BILAG) and are used in clinical 
practice. 
With regard to the wording for the target population the experts consider that the proposal has 
limitations as “standard therapy” is very difficult to define for a disease with such heterogeneous 
manifestations. However, the experts acknowledged that this population is the one used in the clinical 
studies and the proposal seems appropriate. 
The recommendation to discontinue belimumab treatment in patients that do not show an 
improvement in disease control after 6 months was supported by the experts. 
The experts acknowledged the variability of corticosteroid (CS) use across Europe. In addition to 
region, a number of additional factors influence the use CS, such as speciality of treating physician or 
treatment centers, specific organs affected as well as the patient’s response. Furthermore, it was 
confirmed that the patients included in the belimumab trials were required to have active disease, i.e. 
were on CS by definition.  
There was broad agreement amongst the experts that a steroid sparing effect is of great importance 
and has a significant impact on the patient’s quality of life. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 63/94
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, the experts were not concerned with high use of CS in the belimumab clinical trials and 
did not consider the pattern of CS use to impact on the ability to extrapolate the study results to the 
intended EU target population. 
The differences in the magnitude of effect between ethnicities were noted. The experts stated that 
differences in response across racial groups are known for other drugs used in SLE and that all races 
are affected by SLE. 
According to the experts, however, this did not have a significant impact on the treatment decisions in 
clinical practice. Nevertheless, the experts confirmed that they would like to see further data with 
belimumab to elucidate this phenomenon. 
In conclusion, the issue of a possible difference in effect between ethnicities was not of concern to the 
experts as this is considered manageable in clinical practice. The experts welcomed the company’s 
commitment to conduct a post-approval study to address this question. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of belimumab as an add-on therapy in the treatment of patients with active, autoantibody-
postive SLE has been evaluated in two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies 
that included a total of 1,684 patients. The two studies had a similar design and evaluated doses of 1 
mg/kg and 10 mg/kg in addition to stable standard therapy. Placebo-controlled treatment continuing 
through Week 52 in study C1057 and through Week 76 in study C1056. A Phase 2 study (LBSL02), 
although supportive, does not contribute substantially to the integrated assessment of efficacy given 
differences in the patient population, primary efficacy endpoint and lack of SLE background medication 
control. 
Primary efficacy evaluation in the pivotal trials for belimumab used a composite endpoint, the SLE 
responder index (SRI), which evaluated the response rate at Week 52. The SRI is composed of three 
tools as follows: ≥4 point reduction from baseline in SELENA SLEDAI score; no worsening in Physician’s 
Global Assessment (PGA); and no new BILAG A organ domain score or 2 new BILAG B organ domain 
scores, as compared with baseline. These three components are widely used in clinical trials of SLE. 
Although limited data are available on the minimally important clinical differences for each of these 
indices and the clinical relevance for the cut-off value has not been established (some authors have 
suggested larger reductions than ≥4 points in SELENA SLEDAI score), the proposed cut-off is overall 
accepted. Also, the composite endpoint (SRI) has been endorsed by CHMP in a Central Scientific Advice 
preceding this MAA. 
Further assessment of the efficacy profile of belimumab includes numerous secondary endpoints 
covering SLE disease activity, flares, steroid use, and physician and patient reported outcomes. The 
PGA, the steroid sparing effect, and a reduction in the rates and severity of flares are considered to be 
of particular clinical relevance. 
In study C1056, regarding mean change/percent change in PGA at Week 24, reductions (indicating 
improvement) were comparable across groups with no significant differences. In study C1057, 
belimumab 10 mg/kg was superior to placebo at Week 24 (difference=14.3%, p=<0.0001).  
The effect on disease activity was accompanied by a modest CS sparing effect. The percentage of 
subjects whose average prednisone dose was reduced by ≥25% from baseline to ≤7.5 mg/day during 
Weeks 40 through 52 was only numerically higher in the 10 mg/kg group vs. placebo in both pivotal 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 64/94
 
 
 
 
 
trials. When the data were pooled, a significant difference of 5.64% was achieved as compared to 
placebo. 
The modest benefit shown for the primary endpoint with limited support from the analyses of the 
secondary endpoints yielded a number of questions regarding the efficacy of belimumab. Major 
objections were therefore raised during the procedure comprising a number of specific questions 
mainly asking for alternative analyses of the Phase 3 studies. 
The additional analyses requested by CHMP showed that the magnitude of effect was similar or more 
pronounced using a more stringent responder definition (a reduction >6 or a score <2 on the SLEDAI 
component). In particular, a significant difference was obtained at week 76. The observed effect was 
not due to improvement in immunological parameters only. Also, the imbalance with respect to the 
medication failure component of the responder definition did not have an impact on the results. In 
alternative analyses allowing different degrees of violation of the concomitant medication rules, effects 
consistent with the results from the analysis of the protocol-specified primary endpoint were 
demonstrated. The larger effect magnitude demonstrated for the primary endpoint in high disease 
activity subgroups (SLEDAI score >10, Positive Anti-dsDNA and low C3/C4, and Low C3/C4 and steroid 
requirement at baseline) was further supported by significant results for key secondary endpoints 
(prednisone reduction, FACIT fatigue score and time to first severe flare) in these subgroups. The 
responder difference at week 76 was more pronounced (10-12 percentages) in the high disease 
activity subgroups compared to the overall result (6 percentages). 
To determine the actual effect (in terms of differences from placebo) of belimumab in the population 
with anti-dsDNA negative and/or normal complement levels, the Applicant was requested to present 
efficacy data for this subgroup which was provided during the procedure. As anticipated, the effect of 
belimumab 10 mg/kg in the population with NOT (anti-dsDNA positive/low complement levels), in 
terms of differences over placebo, was almost nil (3.8%, OR 95%CI 1.1 (0.8, 1.6)). It is noted that 
this population represent three different subsets of patients, i.e. antiDNA+/normal complement, 
antiDNA-/normal complement, antiDNA-/low complement. 
In summary, the uncertainty about the robustness of the results for the primary endpoint was resolved 
by additional analyses and an effect was demonstrated in patients with high disease activity that was 
considered clinically relevant. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The clinical development program for belimumab included studies in healthy volunteers and in patients 
with autoimmune diseases (SLE and RA). In total, 2,272 subjects have been exposed to belimumab; of 
those, 1,910 subjects were patients with SLE receiving intravenous belimumab. 
In total, 12 clinical studies were submitted to support the safety of belimumab. Integrated safety data 
were presented for the 3 placebo-controlled repeat-dose studies in SLE (the Phase 2 study LBSL02 and 
the Phase 3 studies C1056 and C1057) (IV SLE CRD studies). 
The primary safety population integrated 2,133 subjects from the 3 randomized, placebo-controlled 
trials completed to date with belimumab administered intravenously in patients with SLE (LBSL02, 
C1056 and C1057), as well as the long term data from the open-label, uncontrolled, continuation trial 
in subjects with SLE (LBSL99). All three randomized, controlled studies included a placebo group as 
well as a 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab dose group, respectively, each in combination with 
standard of care SLE therapies; LBSL02 also included a 4 mg/kg belimumab treatment arm in addition. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 65/94
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary safety population included data from RA controlled studies, supporting data from 
completed Phase 1 studies, ongoing studies as well as investigator-initiated trials. Only SAEs from the 
ongoing IV studies in SLE are presented (C1056, LBS99, C1066, C1074) and discussed briefly. As of 31 
December 2009, 233 subjects had entered Study C1066 (85 in the 1 mg/kg group and 148 in the 10 
mg/kg group) and 712 subjects had entered Study C1074 (235 in the 1 mg/kg group and 477 in the 
10 mg/kg group); enrollment was still continuing from the parent studies, C1056 and C1057. In total, 
296 subjects had entered Study LBSL99; all were receiving 10 mg/kg. 
Enrollment by Study (Sponsor-supported Studies as of 31 Dec 2009) 
Belimumab Clinical Studies 
Total enrolled 
Total belimumab 
treatment 
All Studies 
IV SLE Studies 
Primary Safety Population 
Phase 2 (LBSL02, LBSL99) 
Phase 3 (C1056, C1057) 
C1056 (BLISS-76) 
C1057 (BLISS-52) 
Other Completed Studies 
Phase I (LBSL01) 
Other Ongoing Studies 
C1066/C1074 
IV RA Studies (Secondary Safety Population) 
Phase 2 (LBRA01, LBRA99) 
SC Studies 
Phase 1 - Healthy volunteer (C1058) 
Phase 2 - SLE (C1070) 
2,578 
2,203 
2,133 
449 
1,684 
819 
865 
70 
283 
283 
92 
36 
56 
2,272 
1,910 
1,546 
424 
1,122 
544 
578 
57 
3071 
270 
270 
92 
36 
56 
1  Denotes  number  of  subjects  from  parent  studies  (C1056  and  C1057)  who,  upon  enrollment  in  these 
continuation  studies,  switched from placebo to belimumab treatment. In total, 945 subjects from C1056 
and C1057 enrolled in C1066 and C1074, as of 31 December 2009. 
Patient exposure 
In total, 2,578 subjects participated in the belimumab clinical development program. Of the 2,133 
subjects in the primary safety population approximately 70% received at least 12 months of blinded 
treatment with belimumab; the mean number of doses received was 13 in each treatment group. 
The duration of exposure for all controlled and uncontrolled IV SLE studies is summarized in the table 
below.  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 66/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Exposure - All IV SLE Studies 
Placebo 
N=688 
1 mg/kg 
N=688 
4 mg/kg 
N=125 
10 mg/kg2 
N=946 
20 mg/kg 
N=14 
All Active 
N=16033 
Duration of 
exposure1 (days)  
Mean ± SD  
346.72 ± 
123.34 
358.78 ± 
130.80 
358.27 ± 
164.84 
619.83 ± 
495.46 
38.36 ± 10.76 
548.05 ± 
486.55 
Median  
368.0 
370.0 
393.0 
392.0 
38.0 
371.0 
(Min, Max)  
(28.0, 553.0)  (28.0, 625.0)  (28.0, 589.0)  (28.0, 1933.0)  (28.0, 50.0)  (28.0, 1937.0) 
Duration of 
exposure1 (months)  
   ≥3  
   ≥6  
  ≥ 9  
   ≥12  
   ≥18  
   ≥243  
   ≥303  
   ≥363  
   ≥423  
   ≥483  
   ≥543  
   ≥603  
636 (92.4%)  637 (92.6%)  106 (84.8%)  876 (92.6%) 
598 (86.9%)  604 (87.8%)  102 (81.6%)  828 (87.5%) 
544 (79.1%)  566 (82.3%) 
99 (79.2%) 
779 (82.3%) 
458 (66.6%)  473 (68.8%) 
93 (74.4%) 
677 (71.6%) 
1 (0.1%) 
20 (2.9%) 
23 (18.4%) 
271 (28.6%) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
257 (27.2%) 
242 (25.6%) 
226 (23.9%) 
181 (19.1%) 
73 (7.7%) 
53 (5.6%) 
16 (1.7%) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
1463 (91.3%) 
1386 (86.5%) 
1302 (81.2%) 
1107 (69.1%) 
297 (18.5%) 
274 (17.1%) 
257 (16.0%) 
248 (15.5%) 
229 (14.3%) 
175 (10.9%) 
151 (9.4%) 
38 (2.4%) 
Studies LBSL01, LBSL02, LBSL99, C1057 and C1056. 
1  Duration is calculated as last infusion date - first infusion date + 28 days. A 3 month interval is defined as 
2 
3 
13 weeks. 
Includes subjects randomized to the 10 mg/kg group and subjects who switched to the 10 mg/kg group. For 
subjects who switched to the 10 mg/kg group, exposure was calculated after their 1st dose of 10 mg/kg 
belimumab treatment. 
In the "10 mg/kg" column: Only the exposure to belimumab 10 mg/kg treatment was counted.  In the "All 
Active" column": For patients who switched to belimumab 10 mg/kg group from belimumab 1 mg/kg or 4 
mg/kg groups, the initial exposure to belimumab 1 mg/kg or 4 mg/kg treatment was counted in addition to 
the exposure to belimumab 10 mg/kg treatment. 
Approximately 15% to 25% of subjects discontinued during the blinded treatment phase, across the 
belimumab and placebo treatment groups with no trends in relation to dose. 
Adverse events  
Common AEs 
The overall incidence of treatment-emergent AEs for the combined studies LBSL02, C1056, and C1057 
(IV SLE CRD studies=primary safety population) is summarized in the table below. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 67/94
 
   
     
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of Subjects with AEs (IV SLE CRD Studies) 
At least 1 AE  
At least 1 related1 AE  
At least 1 serious AE  
At least 1 severe2 AE  
Placebo  
N=675 
1 mg/kg  
N=673 
4 mg/kg  
N=111 
10 mg/kg  
N=674 
624 (92.4%)  
626 (93.0%)  
107 (96.4%)  
625 (92.7%)  
285 (42.2%)  
270 (40.1%)  
53 (47.7%)  
269 (39.9%)  
107 (15.9%)  
125 (18.6%)  
15 (13.5%)  
117 (17.4%)  
104 (15.4%)  
104 (15.5%)  
26 (23.4%)  
103 (15.3%)  
At least 1 related serious AE  
34 (5.0%)  
35 (5.2%)  
1 (0.9%)  
31 (4.6%)  
At least 1 related severe2 AE  
28 (4.1%)  
28 (4.2%)  
5 (4.5%)  
25 (3.7%)  
At least 1 AE resulting in dosing 
interruption  
At least 1 AE resulting in study agent 
discontinuation  
85 (12.6%)  
86 (12.8%)  
25 (22.5%)  
91 (13.5%)  
48 (7.1%)  
42 (6.2%)  
4 (3.6%)  
45 (6.7%)  
Deaths  
3 (0.4%)  
5 (0.7%)  
-- 
6 (0.9%)  
Studies LBSL02, C1056, and C1057 
1 
2 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety. 
Related is defined as possibly, probably or definitely related to study agent. 
Severe refers to Grade 3 and Grade 4. 
The incidence of treatment-emergent AEs was generally fairly similar across the 1 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 
and placebo groups. The most common AEs are summarized in the table below. 
Reviewed by MedDRA system organ class (SOC), the incidence of subjects with AEs was generally 
similar in the belimumab 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups compared with the placebo group. The highest 
incidence of AEs occurred in the Infections and Infestations SOC and slightly more frequently so in the 
belimumab 1 mg/kg (71.0%) and 10 mg/kg groups (69.9%) compared with placebo (66.7%). 
Psychiatric Disorders (15.3% in the 1 mg/kg group, 14.8% in the 10 mg/kg group vs. 12.1% for 
placebo), Eye Disorders (10.4% and 10.8% vs. 8.7%, respectively), and Cardiac Disorders (6.5% and 
8.2% vs. 6.7%, respectively) were also reported at slightly higher incidences in the belimumab groups 
versus placebo.  
Common AE preferred terms that were reported slightly more frequently in the belimumab groups 
compared with placebo included: nausea (14.7% in the 10 mg/kg groups and 13.1% in the 1 mg/kg 
group vs. 12.1% in the placebo group); diarrhoea (12% in both belimumab groups compared with 
9.2% in the placebo group); nasopharyngitis (9.1% in the 10 mg/kg and 8.5% in the 1 mg/kg group 
vs. 7.1% for placebo); bronchitis (8.9% in the 10 mg/kg and 6.4% in the 1 mg/kg group vs. 5.2% for 
placebo); pain in extremity (5.9% and 5.2% vs. 4.0%) ; and depression (5.2% and 6.1% vs. 3.7%).  
Other events that were more commonly reported in the 10 mg/kg belimumab group compared with 
placebo included leukopenia, pyrexia, cystitis, viral gastroenteritis, migraine, and insomnia. However, 
the difference in incidence between the treatment groups for these common events was small.  
In the IV SLE CRD studies, 2.1% of subjects in the 10 mg/kg belimumab group had an AE coded as 
‘infusion-related reaction’ compared with 1.3% in the 1 mg/kg group and 0.7% of subjects treated 
with placebo (see ‘adverse events of special interest’). 
Of note, the overall incidence of AEs reported in the 4 mg/kg group was higher than in the 1 mg/kg 
and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups. This is caused by the fact that the incidence of AEs and laboratory 
abnormalities was higher in Study LBSL02 across all treatment groups, including the placebo group, as 
compared with the Phase 3 studies. The reason for this is not known, possibly a combination of various 
factors such as differences in the number of study visits or possibly some differences in age, disease 
duration or geographic distribution between the study populations. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 68/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Common AEs (>10% in the 10 mg/kg Group) (IV SLE CRD Studies) 
Preferred Term 
Headache  
Placebo 
N=675 
1 mg/kg 
N=673 
4 mg/kg 
N=111 
10 mg/kg 
N=674 
140 (20.7%) 
138 (20.5%) 
30 (27.0%) 
142 (21.1%) 
Upper respiratory tract infection  130 (19.3%) 
128 (19.0%) 
36 (32.4%) 
118 (17.5%) 
Arthralgia  
Nausea  
112 (16.6%) 
100 (14.9%) 
32 (28.8%) 
109 (16.2%) 
82 (12.1%) 
88 (13.1%) 
22 (19.8%) 
99 (14.7%) 
Urinary tract infection  
82 (12.1%) 
92 (13.7%) 
19 (17.1%) 
87 (12.9%) 
Diarrhoea  
Fatigue  
Pyrexia 
62 (9.2%) 
81 (12.0%) 
23 (20.7%) 
80 (11.9%) 
70 (10.4%) 
71 (10.5%) 
33 (29.7%) 
66 (9.8%) 
52 (7.7%) 
52 (7.7%) 
17 (15.3%) 
65 (9.6%) 
Studies LBSL02, C1056, and C1057 
Most AEs in the IV SLE CRD studies were mild to moderate in severity. Severe AEs (Grade 3 or 
Grade 4) were reported for approximately 15% of subjects in the 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, as 
well as the placebo group. There were no major differences in the distribution of severe events 
between the treatment groups. However, slightly more subjects treated with the 10 mg/kg belimumab 
dose experienced severe events of pyrexia, leukopenia, myalgia, and infusion related reactions 
compared with placebo. 
To determine whether AEs were related to duration of exposure to study agent, the incidence of 
subjects with AEs was calculated for 6-months intervals for the controlled IV SLE CRD studies. The rate 
of subjects with at least 1 AE, related AE, serious AE, and severe AE per 100-subject years was 
somewhat higher during the first 6-month interval compared with the second 6-month interval. 
Similarly, the AE profile over a prolonged period of time was further assessed in the repeat-dose long-
term LBSL02 extension and LBSL99, showing that the rates for most AEs tended to decline with time. 
Also, there was no clear indication of an increase in the incidence of severe AEs with increasing 
duration of exposure to study agent over the course of the studies. 
In the IV SLE CRD population (C1056, C1057 and LBSL02) 83% of the total population were on any 
steroids at baseline. The table below displays the frequency of patients who experienced infusion 
reactions, hypersensitivity reactions, infections and serious infections by the use of steroids at 
baseline. Interpretation of these results should be made with caution given the relatively small number 
of patients not on steroids. 
Table 
Patients who experienced an AE by baseline steroid use. IV SLE CRD 
population 
On Steroids at baseline (N = 
1686) 
No Steroids at baseline (N = 
336) 
Placebo 
(n = 570) 
1 mg/kg 
(n = 565) 
10 mg/kg 
(n = 551) 
Placebo 
(n = 105) 
1 mg/kg 
(n = 108) 
10 mg/kg 
(n = 123) 
Infusion 
reactions/hypersensitivity 
30 
(5.3%) 
33 
(5.8%) 
47 
(8.5%) 
8  
(7.6%) 
19 
(17.6%) 
15 
(12.2%) 
     Hypersensitivity reactions 
1 (0.2%) 
2 (0.4%) 
2 (0.4%) 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 69/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Serious Infections 
378 
(66.3%) 
401 
(71.0%) 
380 
(69.0%) 
72 
(68.6%) 
77 
(71.3%) 
91 
(74.0%) 
33 
(5.8%) 
39 
(6.9%) 
31 
(5.6%) 
2 (1.9%) 
7 (6.5%) 
4 (3.3%) 
Table 20.01-Table 20.06 m5.3.5.3 
Overall, the proportion of subjects with infusion reactions was lower in the population on steroids in all 
treatment groups; the greatest proportion of subjects with events was observed in the 10 mg/kg 
belimumab group. Hypersensitivity reactions, however, do not appear to be significantly decreased on 
steroids although the numbers are small and so a definitive conclusion with regards to hypersensitivity 
reactions cannot be made. It should be noted that all the cases of anaphylaxis and angioedema 
occurred in the group on steroids. 
Rates of patients experiencing any infection did not increase in patients on steroids, which is somewhat 
surprising. The difference in rates between the 10 mg/kg and the placebo group was increased slightly 
(2.7% difference in subjects on steroids, 5.4% difference in subjects not on steroids). Serious infection 
rates on the other hand were greater in all treatment groups on steroids, and therefore steroids may 
play a more critical role in the development of serious infections than does belimumab. 
Adverse events of special interest 
 
Infusion and hypersensitivity reactions 
As an AE of special interest, the Applicant conducted an analysis of infusion reactions (including 
hypersensitivity reactions) that occurred. For the purpose of this analysis, ‘infusion reactions’ were 
defined as all events that were included in list of 164 preferred terms and that had a duration ≤7 days. 
In addition, nine preferred terms related to ‘hypersensitivity reaction’ did not have this duration 
requirement and were also considered infusion reactions.  
The majority of reactions occurred with either the first or second infusion and the incidence declined 
with subsequent infusions. The difference in incidence of events between the 10 mg/kg group vs. 
placebo was most apparent during the first few infusions and reduced over time. One of the reasons 
may be that subjects with severe or serious reactions were discontinued but there were also fewer 
reports over time in the placebo group. 
Fifteen subjects in the IV SLE CRD studies had serious infusion or hypersensitivity reactions: 3 (0.4%) 
in the placebo group and 6 (0.9%) each in the 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups. Infusion-related 
reaction (not specified) was the most commonly reported SAE preferred term: 2 (0.3%), 1 (0.1%), 
and 4 (0.6%) subjects in the placebo, 1 and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively. Specific symptoms of 
events reported as serious infusion-related reactions were variable.  
Overall, the data indicate that the incidence of infusion reactions and hypersensitivity reactions were 
greatest during the first few infusions but in some cases, the reactions occurred later. The incidence of 
serious reactions was approximately 1% both for the 1 mg/kg and the 10 mg/kg dose. 
Recommendations for considering premedication and cautionary language have been included in the 
SPC. 
 
Infections 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 70/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the mechanism of action of belimumab, the risk of infection is a potential concern. In the 
randomized controlled SLE trials, the overall incidence of infections was 67% in the placebo group, 
71% in the 1 mg/kg group, and 70% in the 10 mg/kg group. The most frequent infections by preferred 
term were upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, nasopharyngitis, sinusitis and 
bronchitis. The incidence of these events was generally comparable between all groups, with the 
exception of bronchitis and nasopharyngitis, which were slightly more common in the belimumab 
groups. 
Severe infections occurred in from 3% to 5% of subjects across the treatment groups (3.7%, 3.9% 
and 3.3% in the placebo, belimumab 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively). 
The incidence of the most frequent serious infections is shown in the table below, showing a similar 
incidence except for bronchitis which occurred slightly more frequently in subjects treated with 
belimumab. In addition, the incidence of sepsis was slightly higher for belimumab compared with 
placebo (0.7% for the 10 mg/kg group compared with 0.4% for placebo). There were 5 SAEs of sepsis 
(0.7% of subjects) in the belimumab 10 mg/kg group compared with 1 subject (0.1%) in the placebo 
group.  
Most Frequent Serious Infections by Preferred Term (IV SLE CRD Studies) 
System Organ Class  
Preferred Term 1  
Placebo 
N=675  
1 mg/kg 
N=673  
4 mg/kg 
N=111  
10 mg/kg 
N=674  
Serious Infections and infestations  
35 (5.2%)  
46 (6.8%)  
7 (6.3%)  
35 (5.2%)  
Pneumonia  
10 (1.5%)  
7 (1.0%)  
1 (0.9%)  
6 (0.9%)  
Urinary tract infection  
4 (0.6%)  
7 (1.0%)  
1 (0.9%)  
5 (0.7%)  
Cellulitis  
Bronchitis  
Pyelonephritis  
2 (0.3%)  
7 (1.0%)  
1 (0.9%)  
1 (0.1%)  
1 (0.1%)  
2 (0.3%)  
1 (0.9%)  
3 (0.4%)  
3 (0.4%)  
3 (0.4%)  
-- 
-- 
Studies LBSL02, C1056, C1057 
1 
Preferred terms are sorted by descending frequency across all treatment groups. 
Two deaths were specifically attributed to sepsis - one subject in the 1 mg/kg group and one subject in 
the 10 mg/kg group of Study C1057, while a third subject in the placebo group in this study died of 
cardiac arrest that was preceded by sepsis. In addition, another death in the 10 mg/kg group was 
attributed to active infective diarrhoea. Two deaths occurred from respiratory failure (Study LBSL02, 
10 mg/kg group) or respiratory arrest (Study C1057, 1 mg/kg group) with sepsis also noted among 
other events experienced by the subjects. An additional death in the 1 mg/kg group (Study C1056) 
was of unknown causation but was considered related to vomiting following an unspecified 
gastrointestinal illness. 
Thus, the number of deaths with relation to sepsis in the controlled studies was slightly higher in the 
belimumab groups, compared with placebo. However, a possible relationship to belimumab is not 
always clear. In addition, there were a few cases of serious opportunistic infection (including one 
subject with dissiminated CMV infection (on Day 62) and one subject with Acinetobacter bacterimia, on 
Day 15) both in the 10 mg/kg group and a possible relationship to belimumab cannot be excluded.  
The anti-TNF activity of belimumab is an area of concern with respect to infection risk. BLyS is a 
member of the tumour necrosis factor ligand superfamily. It has been shown to bind with high affinity 
to 3 receptors, all of which are members of the TNF receptor family (BCMA, TACI, and BAFF-R).  
The Applicant conducted a separate analysis that included infection AEs of special interest: cellulitis, 
fungal infections, herpes infections, sepsis, all respiratory infections, and possible opportunistic 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 71/94
 
 
 
 
 
infections. All but fungal/herpes viral infections were reported in a slightly greater proportion of 
belimumab subjects than placebo subjects. 
The Applicant was also requested to further discuss the potential risk of opportunistic infections such 
as tuberculosis in countries with a higher prevalence of latent tuberculosis. A summary of the incidence 
of opportunistic infections as of 09 July 2010 is shown in the table below. 
Opportunistic infection rate in all belimumab SLE studies as of 09 July 2010 
As of 09 July 2010, three cases of TB (two pulmonary [latent] TB, one extra pulmonary TB) have been 
reported in long-term SLE studies. Two of these cases were considered serious and one non-serious. 
The two serious cases occurred in subjects in the Philippines and Taiwan; the third, non-serious case 
occurred in a US subject originally from Cambodia. All belimumab-treated subjects that experienced TB 
were taking steroids and two were additionally taking an immunosuppressant (azathioprine or 
mycophenolate mofetil). An additional case of non-serious latent TB was identified in a SLE long-term 
continuation study, plus two non-serious cases of non-tuberculosis mycobacterial infections.  
The Applicant also conducted an analysis of infection risk in relation to the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 
laboratory abnormalities in white blood cells and immunoglobulins. These data seem to indicate a 
higher risk of infection in subjects treated with belimumab and with Grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia or low 
immunoglobulin level; however, the results should be interpreted with caution. Temporal relationships 
between onset of infection and laboratory measures were not established and the submission of some 
additional controlled Week 76 data (Study C1056) did not provide significant new information. 
As a component of the RMP, the Applicant is proposing to conduct a large post-marketing safety study 
to evaluate the long-term safety of IV belimumab in the SLE population by assessment of the incidence 
of serious infections as well as opportunistic infections for at least 5 years.  
  Malignancies 
As an immunomodulator, a possible concern with belimumab is the potential risk for malignancy.  
During the double-blind period of the IV SLE CRD studies, a total of 8 subjects had malignant 
neoplasms (two in the placebo group and three each in the 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg group), and one 
subject had a neoplasm for which the malignancy status was not specified (thyroid neoplasm). An 
additional malignant neoplasm was reported for one subject (breast cancer, placebo group) poststudy. 
Of these 10 neoplasms, six were solid organ neoplasms and four were non-melanoma skin neoplasms. 
No haematological neoplasms were reported in these studies. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 72/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the IV SLE CRD studies showed a comparable incidence of malignancy between belimumab 
and placebo over a relatively short observation period and no particular trends were observed. 
An up-to-date malignancy incidence estimate for all SLE studies as of 09 July 2010 is shown in the 
table below, which similarly did not show a particular trend. Similarly, an update on the rate of 
haematological malignancies across all SLE studies was estimated at 0.075/100 subject-years (95% 
CI: 0.016, 0.221), compared with a background rate for SLE patients at 0.087 (0.067, 0.111) as 
reported in the literature. 
As a component of the RMP, the Applicant is proposing a post-marketing randomized , controlled l 
study to collect additional malignancy data over a period of at least 5 years.  
Malignancy rate excluding NMSC in all belimumab SLE studies as of 09 July 2010 
  Other events of special interest 
Additional exploratory AE analyses by the Applicant included psychiatric disorders, eye disorders, 
cardiovascular disorders and gastrointestinal infections. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 73/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric disorders 
Neuropsychiatric events such as major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, panic disorder are known 
to be significantly higher in patients with SLE than in the general population. In the IV SLE CRD 
studies, slightly higher rates of psychiatric disorders were seen in the belimumab groups compared to 
placebo (15% vs. 12%), which seemed mostly driven by depression, anxiety and insomnia. The 
incidence of composite depression and suicide/self injury AE preferred terms was slightly higher in the 
belimumab groups (namely 4.7%, 6.4%, and 5.5% in the placebo, 1mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg groups, 
respectively). 
Across all controlled and uncontrolled SLE studies, there were three reports of completed suicide and 
one report each of suicide attempt and suicidal gesture in the belimumab groups, compared with one 
report of intentional self-harm in the placebo group. In most cases there was a history of depression. 
Further, incidence rates for serious depression or related events in SLE studies were lower than those 
reported in the literature for patients with SLE and similar in the case of suicidal behaviour. 
The Applicant was requested to further discuss this issue and concluded that the belimumab studies 
showed a slight increased incidence in neuropsychiatric disorders for belimumab compared with 
placebo, mainly driven by reports of depression. The reason for this slight difference is not clear and 
could not be explained by imbalances in medication at baseline since the proportions of subjects 
receiving concomitant medications for depression and suicide/self-injury were similar across treatment 
groups. However, in the 10 mg/kg a slightly greater proportion of subjects reported medical history of 
depression and suicide/self-injury at baseline which may be an indication that there was a slightly 
greater predisposition for the development or worsening of depression than in the other treatment 
groups. Psychiatric events including depression and suicidality are included in the RMP as a potential 
risk. The Applicant will prospectively evaluate data on psychiatric events, including depression and 
suicidality, reported from ongoing and other future clinical studies, including the planned 5-year 
randomized, controlled study.  
Eye disorders 
Slightly more eye events were noted in the belimumab groups (10% and 11% in the 1 mg/kg and 
10 mg/kg groups, respectively) compared with placebo (8.7%). However, no specific event was 
responsible for the difference observed, and the most frequent events were relatively minor disorders 
(e.g., dry eye). 
Cardiovascular disorders 
A higher reporting of cardiac disorders SOC in belimumab groups compared to placebo was seen in 
Study C1056 but not Study C1057. In Study C1056, the rate of cardiac disorders was 5.5%, 8.9%, and 
11% for placebo, 1 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg, respectively, and palpitations was the most common 
preferred term (1.5%, 1.8% and 2.6% in the placebo, belimumab 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, 
respectively). 
Overall, in the IV SLE CRD studies cardiac arrhythmias were slightly more commonly reported in the 
belimumab groups compared to placebo, with an incidence of 3.6% in the 1 mg/kg group and 4.6% in 
the belimumab 10 mg/kg group compared with 3.0% for placebo. This was mainly driven by non-
serious palpitations but could not be explained by infusion-related events. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 74/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal infections 
An increase in the incidence of GI infections might be expected following belimumab treatment (1.0%, 
3.4%, and 3.3% for placebo and belimumab 1 and 10mg/kg, respectively). In most cases, these were 
nonserious AEs. 
Serious adverse event and deaths 
Deaths 
Prior to 01 January 2010, 28 deaths had been reported across the entire belimumab clinical 
development program with two additional deaths reported in long-term safety studies of belimumab in 
the interval from 01 January to 09 July 2010. 
Fourteen deaths occurred during the double-blind periods of the IV SLE CRD studies: 3 (0.4%) in the 
placebo group, 5 (0.7%) in the 1 mg/kg group and 6 (0.9%) in the 10 mg/kg group. Nine of the 
deaths occurred in Study C1057 compared with three in Study C1056 and two in Study LBSL02. Eight 
of the deaths occurred during first 6-month interval and six deaths occurred during the second 6-
month interval. An additional death due to respiratory arrest was reported more than 3 months after 
the subject completed participation in Study C1057 (1 mg/kg group). Of these 15 deaths, three were 
due to cardiac disorders, three due to infections and infestations, three due to respiratory 
failure/arrest, two due to suicide, two due to unknown cause, one due to ischemic stroke, and one due 
to ovarian cancer.  
Three deaths were reported in open-label long-term SLE study LBSL99 prior to the cut-off date for the 
interim CSR: suicide, CMV pneumonia, and atherosclerotic coronary artery disease. Two deaths were 
reported in the controlled RA study LBRA01 (myocardial infarction, pneumonia) and two deaths were 
reported in the open-label long-term study LBRA99 (coronary artery thrombosis, respiratory failure). 
Eight additional deaths were reported in the ongoing studies in SLE and RA.  
Although the death rate in the controlled studies was more than twice as high in the 10 mg/kg group 
compared with the placebo group (0.9% vs. 0.4%), review of individual cases was not indicative of 
particular trends for belimumab. In most cases, the cause of death could be related to severe SLE and 
subsequent complications, and other underlying conditions. However, for some of the subjects who 
died from infection, a contributory role by belimumab cannot be excluded.  
An updated death incidence rate across all SLE studies is shown in the table below. Including the two 
deaths reported since 01 January 2010 and adjusting for exposure to 09 July 2010, the death 
incidence rate per 100 patient-years is 0.43 in placebo-treated patients (95% CI: 0.09, 1.25) and 0.55 
in belimumab-treated patients (95% CI: 0.35, 0.84). 
Mortality rate in all SLE studies as of 09 July 2010 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 75/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAEs 
Overall, the incidence of SAEs in the IV SLE CRD studies was high and similarly distributed across the 
treatment groups, including placebo (17% in the 10 mg/kg, 19% in the 1 mg/kg, and 16% in the 
placebo group). These rates are not unexpected for a moderately severe active SLE disease population. 
The most frequent SAEs were pneumonia, pyrexia, and urinary tract infection. There were relatively 
more cases of serious pyrexia and depression in the belimumab groups and relatively more cases of 
non-cardiac chest pain in the placebo group but the absolute number of events was small. 
The Applicant was requested to further discuss the observation that the incidence of severe and/or 
serious nervous system disorders and renal disorders appeared to be higher in the belimumab groups 
compared to placebo. During the procedure the Applicant provided additional analyses of the incidence 
of SAEs and severe adverse events with respect to renal disorders (Renal and Urinary Disorders SOC) 
and nervous system disorders (Nervous System Disorders SOC) in the IV SLE CRD studies. These 
analyses did not reveal trends or findings that indicated a causal relationship to belimumab. Many 
events were single reports and did not comprise a particular pattern. 
Seven cases of pancreatitis were reported in patients on belimumab, two in belimumab 4 mg/kg and 
five in belimumab 10 mg/kg. In 4 out of 7, the potential role of belimumab could not be ruled out. 
However, the calculated pancreatitis rate/100 patient years was higher in the placebo group (0.71/100 
patient years) compared to belimumab across all dose groups (0.18/100 patient years); furthermore, a 
higher incidence of pancreatitis among placebo patients (0.7%) compared to subjects receiving 
belimumab 10 mg/kg (0.3%) was observed. 
In general, most SAEs were considered not related to study drug. The SOC with the highest incidence 
of related SAEs was ‘Infections and infestations’. The most frequently reported (≥5 subjects in total) 
related SAEs within this SOC were pneumonia, UTI, cellulitis, and herpes zoster with no notable 
differences between the treatment groups. The next highest incidence of related SAEs reported was in 
the ‘General disorders’ and ‘Administration site condition’ SOC, with infusion-related reactions being 
most prevalent. 
More subjects treated with belimumab developed SAEs of infusion related reaction or hypersensitivity 
reaction compared with placebo. Four subjects (0.6%) in the 10 mg/kg belimumab group experienced 
SAEs of ‘infusion related reaction’ combined with 2 subjects (0.3%) in the 1 mg/kg group and 2 
(0.3%) in the placebo group. In addition, 2 (0.3%) subjects in the 10 mg/kg and 2 (0.3%) subjects in 
the 1 mg/kg group had SAEs coded as anaphylactic reaction or drug hypersensitivity reaction, 
compared with none in the placebo group. Two of the subjects with an anaphylactic reaction also 
developed angioedema. All events were considered at least possibly related to study drug. 
Laboratory findings 
Most of the hematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis values were similar between the placebo and 
the belimumab groups. Lymphopenia was the most common laboratory abnormality, which also had a 
similar distribution across the groups. Twenty-three percent, 26% and 24% of subjects in the placebo, 
1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively, experienced a Grade 3 lymphopenia during the study and 
2.8%, 1.8% and 3.0%, respectively, experienced Grade 4. 
The effects of belimumab could be seen more clearly in B cell subsets, which were assessed in Study 
C1056. Treatment with belimumab reduced selected B cell subsets such as CD19+ B cells, and naïve 
(CD20+/CD27-) and activated (CD20+/CD69+) B cells, plasma cells, short lived plasma cells, and the 
SLE subset of B cells (active B cell subsets associated with SLE disease activity), whereas memory B 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 76/94
 
 
 
 
 
cell compartment and T cells were preserved. In Study C1056, belimumab significantly reduced both 
CD19+ and CD20+ B cells compared with placebo continuously through Week 76.  
At Week 76, the median percent reduction in CD19+ cells with belimumab was 56-58% compared with 
3% with placebo. The median reduction in naïve B cells in subjects treated with belimumab at Week 76 
was 73%-76% compared with 3% for placebo. The median reduction in activated B cells was 25%, 
43%, and 49% with placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab, respectively. 
To date, B-cell subset data with ongoing treatment beyond Week 76 are not available and it is not 
clear whether the decline in B cell subsets eventually stabilizes with ongoing treatment. However, B-
cell subsets are being collected in the ongoing Phase 3 continuation study, C1066. At the time of the 
analysis, subjects treated with belimumab since randomization will have at least 3 years of B-cell data 
and subjects who switched from placebo to belimumab in the continuation study will have at least 1.5 
years of data. 
Reduction of immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM) is also an expected pharmacologic effect of 
belimumab. At Week 52 of treatment in the Phase 3 SLE studies (C1056 and C1057), the median 
percent change from baseline in IgG was -2.5%, -14%, and -15%, in the placebo, 1 mg/kg, and 
10 mg/kg groups, respectively. However, most subjects had IgG values that remained within the 
reference range at each visit.  
The incidence of IgM shifts from high/normal at baseline to below LLN was higher in the belimumab 
groups (17%, 21%, and 19% for 1, 4, and 10 mg/kg, respectively) compared with the placebo group 
(6.0%). The median percent change from baseline to Week 52 in IgM was  1.3%, -28%, and -30%, 
respectively. 
IgA shifts from high/normal to low were infrequent, but also tended to occur in more subjects in the 
belimumab groups (2.0% to 3.7%) than the placebo group (1.2%).The median change in IgA from 
baseline in the belimumab groups was similar to that observed for IgG, -16% to -17%.  
The association of infections, serious infections and severe infections with Grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia 
(<1000/mm3), neutropenia (<500/mm3), decreases in immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM and IgA) and 
decreases in T-cells was examined by the Applicant. Overall, there were no significant changes in rate 
of Grade 3 or Grade 4 lymphopenia, neutropenia and IgG events between placebo versus the 
belimumab 1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg groups in the controlled SLE studies. However, subjects in 
belimumab groups who experienced Grade 3 or Grade 4 lymphopenia, neutropenia, or low IgM or IgG 
exhibited slightly higher rates of infections versus placebo and versus subjects without these 
abnormalities (see section on infections as AE of special interest). 
Long-term changes in immunoglobulin levels have been reported in the uncontrolled Phase 2 
continuation study LBSL99, out to 5 years: 
 
IgG: Among belimumab subjects with IgG ≥LLN at baseline, the proportion with IgG <LLN 
oscillated but generally increased gradually from 2% at Week 8 to 4% at Week 128 (2.5 years). It 
remained relatively stable at 4% between Week 128 out to Week 248 (5 years).   
 
IgM: Among belimumab subjects with IgM ≥LLN at baseline, the proportion with IgM <LLN 
increased consistently over time from 20% during the first year to 45% between years 4 and 5.  
 
IgA: Among subjects with IgA ≥LLN at baseline, the proportion of subjects with IgA <LLN increased 
slightly over time, from 4% during the first year to 6% between years 4 and 5.  
Long-term immunosuppression may also raise the potential risk for progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). Cases of PML have been reported for other immunosuppressives, including 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 77/94
 
 
 
 
compounds that target B cells, such as rituximab. To date, there have been no reports of PML in the 
belimumab program and to assess this risk requires a long-term follow up. 
Safety in special populations 
Renal elimination is not important for belimumab. Thus, the Applicant’s proposal not to recommend 
dose adjustment for renally impaired patients is considered reasonable. The Applicant was requested 
to further analyze the safety data by severity of renal impairment, which did not suggest an altered 
safety profile under these circumstances. The Applicant recommends caution in patients with severe 
renal impairment due to the lack of data. This is agreed with and a statement has been added in the 
SPC. 
IgG1 molecules such as belimumab are metabolized by ubiquitous proteolytic enzymes that are not 
restricted to hepatic tissue; therefore, changes in hepatic function are unlikely to have any effect on 
the elimination of belimumab. No dose adjustments are recommended, which is acceptable for CHMP. 
The safety of belimumab (overall incidence of AEs, as well as incidence of infections, and infusion and 
hypersensitivity reactions) was evaluated in various subpopulations of the IV SLE CRD studies. The 
intrinsic factors subject to review included the following: gender, age, race, baseline proteinuria level 
(≥2 gram/24hr vs. <2 gram/24 hr), and baseline SELENA SLEDAI score (≥10 vs. ≤9). In addition, the 
following extrinsic factors were examined: geographic region, baseline prednisone use (≤7.5 mg/day 
vs. >7.5 mg/day), and baseline immunosuppressant use (Yes/No).  
Overall, no major trends for the difference between belimumab and placebo were observed for the 
subgroups. Given the low number of males or subjects >65 years of age enrolled in the studies, no 
meaningful gender or age subgroup comparisons could be performed. Similarly, the data on elderly 
was very limited. 
Immunological events 
In the two Phase 3 IV SLE studies, samples for immunogenicity assessment were drawn on Day 0 and 
at Weeks 8, 24, 52/Exit (Study C1057) and Week 76/Exit (Study C1056), as well as the 8-week follow-
up (for subjects discontinuing treatment and not entering the extension period of the study). For 
subjects who had a positive anti-belimumab antibody response at the 8-week follow-up, an additional 
serum sample was obtained, if possible, at least 6 months after the last dose of study agent or upon 
completion and/or unblinding of the study, whichever was later. A summary of the findings is 
presented in the table below. 
Summary of Immunogenicity (Anti-belimumab Antibodies) (Phase 3 IV SLE Studies) 
Persistent Positive1  
NA/Negative --> positive  
Positive --> positive  
Neutralizing any time post baseline2 
Transient Positive3  
NA/Negative --> positive  
Positive --> negative  
Assessment report Benlysta  
Placebo  
N=562 
10 (1.8%)  
10 (1.8%)  
-- 
7/ 10  
1 (0.2%)  
1 (0.2%)  
-- 
1 mg/kg  
N=559 
27 (4.8%)  
26 (4.7%)  
1 (0.2%)  
3/ 11  
46 (8.2%)  
44 (7.9%)  
2 (0.4%)  
10 mg/kg  
N=563 
4 (0.7%)  
4 (0.7%)  
-- 
0/ 1  
1 (0.2%)  
1 (0.2%)  
-- 
Page 78/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Immunogenicity (Anti-belimumab Antibodies) (Phase 3 IV SLE Studies) 
Neutralizing any time post baseline2 
-- 
Placebo  
N=562 
1 mg/kg  
N=559 
1/ 11  
10 mg/kg  
N=563 
-- 
551 (98.0%)  
486 (86.9%)  
558 (99.1%)  
Persistent positive refers to positive immunogenic response at 2 or more assessments or at the final 
assessment. 
Neutralizing any time post-baseline among subjects with neutralization assay results available. 
Transient positive refers to positive immunogenic response at only 1 assessment and negative at final. 
2 
3 
Negative  
1 
Few subjects tested positive for anti-belimumab antibodies and the Applicant explained that 
immunogenicity detected in placebo subjects may be attributed to isolated dosing errors, sample 
labelling errors and/or to the expected false positive rate (<1%) observed in the absence of drug in 
this type of assay. 
The relationship between antibody formation and the risk of infusion reactions does not appear to be 
strong. Of the 76, 88, and 84 Phase 3 subjects in the placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, 
respectively, who experienced some type of infusion reaction or hypersensitivity reaction, four subjects 
(one in the placebo group, two in the 1 mg/kg group, and one in the 10 mg/kg group) also had 
persistent positive immune responses to belimumab. In addition, 8 subjects in the 1 mg/kg group who 
had an infusion or hypersensitivity reaction had transient immune responses to belimumab. However, 
the immunogenicity assay used had decreased sensitivity for anti-belimumab (drug) antibodies (ADA) 
with increased doses of belimumab. Thus, the presence of ADA in subjects in the 10 mg/kg group may 
be underestimated. 
Safety related to pregnancy 
As of 31 October 2010, 60 pregnancies were reported in the IV SLE studies, with outcome reported in 
49 cases. No pregnancies were reported in the RA or Phase 1 studies. In addition, one subject in the 
belimumab SC SLE Study C1070 (100 mg q2 week group) became pregnant and electively terminated 
the pregnancy. Overall, the data is too limited to conclude whether the rate of adverse outcomes in 
pregnant subjects who receive belimumab is similar to the general population with SLE.  
The RMP includes a pregnancy registry to collect more information on pregnancy outcome. The 
importance of obtaining further information of belimumab treatment during pregnancy was also 
emphasized by the experts convened in the Ad hoc expert group meeting. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Belimumab is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system. No studies with belimumab have been 
conducted to specifically examine drug-drug interactions. However, the Applicant conducted a 
population PK analysis that studied the effects of concomitant medications used in the treatment of 
SLE on the PK parameter estimates of belimumab. No clinically relevant interactions were observed 
(see Pharmacokinetic section). 
Vaccine substudy of C1056 
The effect of belimumab on vaccinations was analyzed in a substudy of Study C1056. The prior history 
of having received influenza, tetanus, or pneumococcal vaccines was to be obtained from each subject 
during screening as part of the subject’s medical history. Subjects who received an influenza vaccine 
within 1 year prior to Day 0 were to be tested for influenza vaccine antibody levels on the Day 0 and 
Week 52 visits. Subjects who received tetanus and/or pneumococcal vaccines within 5 years prior to 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 79/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day 0 were to be tested for tetanus and/or pneumococcal vaccine antibody on the Day 0 and Week 52 
visits.  
Levels of antibodies to S pneumoniae (anti-pneumococcal IgG) were not significantly affected by 
52 weeks of treatment with belimumab. Percent changes in IgG antibodies specific to the 12 antigens 
tested between baseline and Week 52 were similar across the three treatment groups and the percent 
of subjects that had measurable specific responses to each serotype at baseline that was retained at 
the end of the 52-week period was also similar between active groups and placebo. 
Percent changes in antibodies specific to tetanus tested between baseline and Week 52 were 
comparable across the 3 treatment groups. Similar to what was observed for pneumococcus, the 
percent of subjects that maintained a protective specific response at the end of the 52-week period 
was also similar between active groups and placebo. 
Percent changes between baseline and Week 52 in antibodies against influenza antigens for vaccines 
received in 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 were generally similar across the 3 treatment groups, even 
though in some cases a statistically significant difference was observed between treatment groups. 
These differences were due to increases in titers observed during the 52 weeks of treatment even 
though no information identifying these subjects as being vaccinated while on study is available. 
Subjects’ immune responses to vaccines received during their participation in the study were also 
tested and the level of response compared between belimumab and placebo treatment groups. Though 
all subjects treated with belimumab or placebo were able to mount a protective response to 
pneumococcal (n=4) or tetanus (n=7) vaccines, too few subjects were vaccinated to draw conclusions. 
Similarly, though a larger number of subjects (n=76) received seasonal flu vaccines while on the 
study, due to the presence of the same influenza strains in consecutive seasonal flu vaccines, most 
subjects had pre-existing antibodies in the protective range for the majority of antigens. Therefore, it 
was not possible to draw conclusions regarding the ability of subjects receiving belimumab to mount 
protective responses to flu vaccines. 
Overall, the effects of belimumab with regards to immunization are not known. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Approximately 6% to 7% of subjects in the IV SLE CRD studies discontinued treatment because of an 
AE, with similar rates across the placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg treatment groups (see table below). 
Similarly, approximately 13% of subjects in these groups had AEs leading to dosing interruption. 
Adverse Events Leading to Study Drug Interruption or Discontinuation (IV SLE CRD Studies) 
At least 1 AE resulting in dosing interruption  
85 (12.6%)   86 (12.8%)   25 (22.5%)   91 (13.5%)  
At least 1 AE resulting in study agent discontinuation  
48 (7.1%)   42 (6.2%)   4 (3.6%)  
45 (6.7%)  
Studies LBSL02, C1056, and C1057 
Placebo  
N=675 
1 mg/kg  
N=673 
4 mg/kg  
N=111 
10 mg/kg  
N=674 
Most of the AE preferred terms only occurred in one or two subjects. Most commonly, lupus nephritis 
resulted in the discontinuation of 8 subjects (1.2%) in the placebo group, 4 subjects in the 1 mg/kg 
group (0.6%) and 6 subjects in the 10 mg/kg group (0.9%).  
The most common event leading to discontinuation and with a possible link to belimumab is ‘infusion 
related reaction’. Overall, approximately 1% of subjects treated with the 10 mg/kg dose belimumab in 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 80/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the IV SLE CRD studies developed an infusion reaction that led to study drug discontinuation. Some 
events were considered serious and even life threatening in nature (see SAE section) and required 
appropriate emergency management. 
Post marketing experience 
Belimumab received its first marketing authorisation in the US in March 2011. To date, no post-
marketing experience data are available for this drug. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, the extent of exposure in this submission is considered to meet ICH recommendations. 
The addition of 10 mg/kg belimumab to standard SLE therapy was generally well tolerated, although a 
small increase in the incidence of infections was observed. Some patients developed infusion related 
reactions, some of which were reminiscent of hypersensitivity reactions. The mechanism of these 
reactions needs to be further elucidated.  
It appears possible that an adverse effect of belimumab on humoral immune response leads to an 
increase in the incidence of bacterial infections. Infections have been included as an identified risk in 
the belimumab Risk management plan and the labelling reflects relevant concerns. Infections will 
further be monitored in the planned post-marketing study. 
Overall, a potential risk for malignancies cannot be ruled out and should be carefully followed. A post-
marketing large post-marketing safety study has been included in the RMP to collect additional 
malignancy data over a period of at least 5 years. In addition, a cautionary statement has been 
included in the SPC.  
Psychiatric events including depression and suicidality are included in the RMP as a potential risk. The 
Applicant will prospectively evaluate data on psychiatric events, including depression and suicidality, 
reported from ongoing and other future clinical studies, including the planned 5-year large post-
marketing safety study. 
The effects of belimumab with regards to immunization are not known. As a pharmacovigilance 
measure, the Applicant will conduct an adult vaccine study as a post-approval commitment to further 
investigate the impact of belimumab treatment on response to on-treatment vaccination.  
The long-term safety of belimumab is currently unknown. Thus, it is not known to what degree 
potential concerns relating to the long-term use of immunomodulators such as risk for opportunistic 
infections and risk of malignancy may also apply to belimumab. Also, withdrawal and rebound effects 
following treatment with belimumab have not been studied in depth. This has been included in the RMP 
as important missing information and the Applicant will provide a plan on how to investigate these 
potential effects. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 81/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The addition of 10 mg/kg belimumab to standard SLE therapy was generally well tolerated, although a 
small increase in the incidence of infections was observed. Some patients developed infusion related 
reactions, some of which were reminiscent of hypersensitivity reactions. The mechanism of these 
reactions needs to be further elucidated. The long-term safety of belimumab is currently unknown. 
Thus, it is not known to what degree potential concerns relating to the long-term use of 
immunomodulators may also apply to belimumab. 
The RMP includes numerous pharmacovigilance measures that are considered adequate to further 
evaluate the safety profile of belimumab in patients with SLE. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 82/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  (Routine 
and Additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(Routine and Additional)   
Identified Risks  
Infusion Reactions  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of data on infusion reactions reported from 
ongoing and all other future clinical studies. LBSL99, 
HGS1006-C1066, HGS1006-C1074, HGS1006-
C1070, BEL114055, BEL114054, HGS1006-C1112,  
Retrospective analysis of the potential correlation 
between the titre and isotype of endogenous anti-
glycan antibodies and the type of infusion reaction 
reported in Studies HGS1006-C1056 and HGS1006-
C1057. 
Posology and method of administration 
statement on infusion reactions is included in 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
“Benlysta treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by a qualified physician experienced 
in the diagnosis and treatment of SLE. Benlysta 
infusions should be administered by a qualified 
healthcare professional trained to give infusion 
therapy. Administration of Benlysta may result 
in hypersensitivity reactions and infusion 
reactions. Therefore, Benlysta should be 
administered in an environment where 
resources for managing such reactions are 
immediately available.” 
“Premedication including an antihistamine, with 
or without an antipyretic, may be administered 
before the infusion of Benlysta. The infusion 
rate may be slowed or interrupted if the patient 
develops an infusion reaction.  The infusion 
must be discontinued immediately if the patient 
experiences a potentially life-threatening 
adverse reaction.” 
Warning and precaution statements on infusion 
reactions are included in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC. 
“Administration of Benlysta may result in 
hypersensitivity reactions and infusion 
reactions.  In the event of a severe reaction, 
Benlysta administration must be interrupted and 
appropriate medical therapy administered.” 
“Premedication including an antihistamine, with 
or without an antipyretic, may be administered 
before the infusion of Benlysta.” 
“In clinical studies, serious infusion and 
hypersensitivity reactions affected 
approximately 0.9% of patients, and included 
anaphylactic reaction, bradycardia, 
hypotension, angioedema, and dyspnea.  
Infusion reactions occurred more frequently 
during the first two infusions and tended to 
decrease with subsequent infusions.” 
Statements on infusion reactions are included in 
Section 4.8 “undesirable effects” of the SmPC. 
“Infusion reactions and hypersensitivity: The 
incidence of infusion reactions and 
hypersensitivity reactions, occurring during or 
on the same day as an infusion was 17% in the 
group receiving Benlysta and 15% in the group 
receiving placebo, with 1% and 0.3%, 
respectively, requiring treatment 
discontinuation.” 
Hypersensitivity 
Reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of data on hypersensitivity reactions 
Posology and method of administration 
statement on hypersensitivity reactions is 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 83/94
 
 
 
 
 
reported from ongoing and all other future clinical 
studies. LBSL99, HGS1006-C1066, HGS1006-
C1074, HGS1006-C1070, BEL114055, BEL114054, 
HGS1006-C1112 
Retrospective analysis of the potential correlation 
between the titre and isotype of endogenous anti-
glycan antibodies and the type of infusion reaction 
reported in Studies C1056 and C1057. 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of data on infections reported from 
Assessment report Benlysta  
included in Section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
“Benlysta treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by a qualified physician experienced 
in the diagnosis and treatment of SLE. Benlysta 
infusions should be administered by a qualified 
healthcare professional trained to give infusion 
therapy. Administration of Benlysta may result 
in hypersensitivity reactions and infusion 
reactions. Therefore, Benlysta should be 
administered in an environment where 
resources for managing such reactions are 
immediately available” 
“Premedication including an antihistamine, with 
or without an antipyretic, may be administered 
before the infusion of Benlysta. The infusion 
rate may be slowed or interrupted if the patient 
develops an infusion reaction.  The infusion 
must be discontinued immediately if the patient 
experiences a potentially life-threatening 
adverse reaction.” 
Contraindication statement on hypersensitivity 
included in Section 4.3 of the SmPC. 
“Benlysta is contraindicated in patients with 
hypersensitivity to belimumab or to any of the 
excipients.” 
Warning and precaution statements on 
hypersensitivity reactions are included in 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
“Administration of Benlysta may result in 
hypersensitivity reactions and infusion 
reactions.  In the event of a severe reaction, 
Benlysta administration must be interrupted and 
appropriate medical therapy administered.” 
“Premedication including an antihistamine, with 
or without an antipyretic, may be administered 
before the infusion of Benlysta.” 
“In clinical studies, serious infusion and 
hypersensitivity reactions affected 
approximately 0.9% of patients, and included 
anaphylactic reaction, bradycardia, 
hypotension, angioedema, and dyspnea.  
Infusion reactions occurred more frequently 
during the first two infusions and tended to 
decrease with subsequent infusions.”     
Statements on hypersensitivity reactions are 
included in Section 4.8 “undesirable effects” of 
the SmPC. 
“Infusion reactions and hypersensitivity: The 
incidence of infusion reactions and 
hypersensitivity reactions, occurring during or 
on the same day as an infusion was 17% in the 
group receiving Benlysta and 15% in the group 
receiving placebo, with 1% and 0.3%, 
respectively, requiring treatment 
discontinuation.” 
Warning and precaution statements on risk of 
infection are included in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC. 
Page 84/94
 
 
 
 
 
ongoing and all other future clinical studies LBSL99, 
HGS1006-C1066, HGS1006-C1074, HGS1006-
C1070, BEL115467, BEL114055, BEL114054, 
HGS1006-C1112 
B-cell subsets are being collected in the ongoing 
Phase III continuation study, C1066.  Summary of the 
results of the analysis of B-cell data to be submitted. 
Planned long term safety study 
BEL115467/HGS1006-C1113 to evaluate the long-
term safety of IV belimumab in the SLE population by 
assessment of the incidence of serious infections 
including serious opportunistic infections (including 
PML) 
Potential  Risks 
Malignancies 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Evaluation of data on malignancies reported from 
ongoing and all other future clinical studies LBSL99, 
HGS1006-C1066, HGS1006-C1074, HGS1006-
C1070, BEL115467/HGS1006-C1113 BEL114055, 
BEL114054, HGS1006-C1112  
Planned long term safety study 
BEL115467/HGS1006-C1113 to evaluate the long-
term safety of IV belimumab in the SLE population by 
assessment of the incidence of malignancies 
excluding non-melanoma kin cancers. 
Immunogenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
MAH will continue to assess the incidence of 
formation of anti-belimumab antibodies using an 
ECL-based bridging assay in ongoing and future 
clinical studies; LBSL99, HGS1006-C1066, 
HGS1006-C1074, HGS1006-C1070, BEL114055, 
BEL114054, HGS1006-C1112.  Immunogenicity risk 
will continue to be assessed to investigate possible 
relationships between antibody formation and 
treatment outcomes and adverse events. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
“The mechanism of action of Benlysta could 
increase the potential risk for the development 
of infections including opportunistic infections. 
Physicians should exercise caution when 
considering the use of Benlysta in patients with 
chronic infection or a history of recurrent 
infection. Patients receiving any therapy for 
chronic infection should not begin therapy with 
Benlysta. Patients who develop an infection 
while undergoing treatment with Benlysta 
should be monitored closely. The risk of using 
Benlysta in patients with active or latent 
tuberculosis is unknown” 
Statements on infections are included in 
Section 4.8 “undesirable effects” of the SmPC. 
“Infections: The overall incidence of infections 
was 70% in the group receiving Benlysta and 
67% in the group receiving placebo. Infections 
occurring in at least 3% of Benlysta patients 
and at least 1% more frequently than patients 
receiving placebo were nasopharyngitis, 
bronchitis, pharyngitis, cystitis, and 
gastroenteritis viral. Serious infections occurred 
in 5% of patients receiving Benlysta or placebo. 
Infections leading to discontinuation of 
treatment occurred in 0.6% of patients receiving 
Benlysta and 1% of patients receiving placebo.” 
A Warning and precaution statement on 
malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
is included in Section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
“Immunomodulatory drugs may increase the 
risk of malignancy. At this time, limited follow-up 
data from clinical trials do not suggest an 
increased risk but this cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering 
belimumab therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing 
treatment in patients who develop malignancy.” 
Section 5.1 of the SmPC describes the 
immunogenic potential for belimumab. 
“Assays sensitivity for neutralizing antibodies 
and non-specific anti-drug antibody (ADA) are 
limited by the presence of active drug in the 
collected samples. The true occurrence of 
neutralizing antibodies and non-specific anti-
drug antibody in the study population is 
therefore not known.” 
In the two Phase III studies, 4 out of 563 (0.7%) 
patients in the 10 mg/kg group and 27 out of 
559 (4.8%) patients in the 1   mg/kg group 
tested positive for persistent presence of anti-
belimumab antibodies.”  
“Among persistent-positive subjects in the 
Phase III trials, 1/10 (10%) , 2/27 (7%) and 1/4 
Page 85/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(25%) subjects in the placebo, 1 mg/kg and 10 
mg/kg groups, respectively, experienced 
infusion reactions on a dosing day; these 
infusion reactions were all non-serious and mild 
to moderate in severity. Few patients with ADA 
reported serious/severe AEs. The rates of 
infusion reactions among persistent-positive 
subjects were comparable to the rates for ADA 
negative patients of 75/552 (14%), 78/523 
(15%), and 83/559 (15%) in the placebo, 1 
mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively.” 
Warning and precaution statements on 
immunisations are included in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC: 
“Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days 
before, or concurrently with belimumab as 
clinical safety has not been established. No 
data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection from persons receiving 
live vaccines to patients receiving Benlysta. 
Because of its mechanism of action, Benlysta 
may interfere with the response to 
immunisations. The efficacy of concurrent 
vaccination in patients receiving Benlysta is not 
known.  Limited data suggest that Benlysta 
does not significantly affect the ability to 
maintain a protective immune response to 
immunisations received prior to administration 
of Benlysta.  In a substudy, a small group  of 
patients who had previously received either 
tetanus, pneumococcal or influenza 
vaccinations were found to maintain protective 
titres after treatment with Benlysta. There are 
insufficient data to draw conclusions regarding 
the ability of subjects receiving belimumab to 
mount protective responses to vaccines.  
Statements on psychiatric events are included 
in Section 4.8 “undesirable effects” of the 
SmPC. 
“Psychiatric disorders:  Insomnia occurred in 
7% of the group receiving Benlysta and 5% of 
the group receiving placebo.  Depression was 
reported in 5% and 4% of the groups receiving 
Benlysta and placebo, respectively.” 
Effect on 
Immunisations, 
Including Interactions 
with Live Vaccines 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
The MAH will conduct an adult vaccine study 
(HGS1006-C1117) to further investigation of the 
impact of belimumab treatment on response to on-
treatment vaccination.  
Psychiatric events 
including depression 
and suicidality 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of data on psychiatric events, including 
depression and suicidality, reported from ongoing 
and all other future clinical studies LBSL99, 
HGS1006-C1066, HGS1006-C1074, HGS1006-
C1070, BEL115467/HGS1006-C1113,  BEL114055, 
BEL114054, HGS1006-C1112 
Evaluation of safety data from ongoing studies, which 
will include prospective assessment of suicidality in 
future randomized, controlled clinical trials. 
Planned long term safety study 
BEL115467/HGS1006-C1113 to evaluate the long-
term safety of IV belimumab in the SLE population  
Important Missing Information 
Limited data in 
pregnant and 
lactating patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of data on any pregnancies or lactation 
reported from ongoing and all other future clinical 
studies 
Evaluation of data on pregnancy outcomes, live birth 
outcomes, and infant outcomes from the planned 
Pregnancy Registry BEL114256/ HGS1006-C1101 
Section 4.6 of the SmPC reviews the safety of 
belimumab in pregnancy and lactation.  
Women of childbearing potential/ Contraception 
in males and females 
“Women of child-bearing potential must use 
effective contraception during Benlysta 
treatment and for at least 4 months after the last 
treatment.” 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 86/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
“There are a limited amount of data from the 
use of Benlysta in pregnant women.  No formal 
studies have been considered. Besides an 
expected pharmacological effect i.e., depletion 
of B cells, animal studies in monkeys do not 
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with 
respect to reproductive toxicity.” 
“Benlysta should not be used during pregnancy 
unless clearly necessary.” 
Breastfeeding 
“It is unknown whether Benlysta is excreted in 
human milk or absorbed systemically after 
ingestion. However, belimumab was detected in 
the milk from female monkeys administered 150 
mg/kg every 2 weeks.” 
“Because maternal antibodies (IgG) are 
excreted in breast milk, it is recommended that 
a decision should be made whether to 
discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/Benlysta therapy, taking into 
account the benefit of breast feeding for the 
child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.” 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC informs of the lack of 
data in elderly patients. 
“The efficacy and safety of Benlysta in the 
elderly has not been established.  Data on 
patients >65 years are limited to <1.6% of the 
studied population. Therefore, the use of 
Benlysta in elderly patients is not recommended 
unless the benefits are expected to outweigh 
the risks. In case administration of  Benlysta to 
elderly patients is deemed necessary, dosage 
adjustment is not required (see also comment 
under 4.4).” 
Limited data in 
Elderly Patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of safety data from future clinical studies 
HGS1006-C1102, BEL115467/HGS1006-C1113, 
BEL114054, HGS1006-C1112. 
A plan how to study efficacy and safety in elderly 
patients is to be submitted 
No data in paediatric 
patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of safety data from planned paediatric 
clinical study in children aged 5-17 years  
(BEL114055) and follow-up of patients until 10 years 
after their first belimumab dose 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC informs of the lack of 
data in children below 18 years of age. 
“ The safety and efficacy of Benlysta in children 
(less than 18 years of age) has not been 
established. No data are available..” 
Long term data on B 
cell levels 
B-cell subsets are being collected in the ongoing 
Phase III continuation study, C1066.  Summary of the 
results of the analysis of B-cell data to be submitted. 
Not applicable 
Lack of data in SLE 
patients with severe 
active lupus nephritis 
or severe active CNS 
lupus 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Evaluation of safety data from planned lupus 
nephritis study (BEL114054) 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC informs of the lack of 
data in severe active lupus nephritis and severe 
active CNS lupus. 
“There are no or insufficient data available on 
the effects of Benlysta in patients with severe 
active lupus nephritis or severe active central 
nervous system lupus. Therefore, Benlysta 
cannot be recommended to treat these 
conditions (see section 4.4).” 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 87/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Not applicable 
A plan will be submitted by December 2011 
Lack of data on the 
effect of stopping 
treatment ( treatment 
holidays) and risk of 
rebound 
phenomenon 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that 
pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
There are currently no established regulatory tools to evaluate the efficacy of drugs for the treatment 
of patients with SLE. However, based on the complexity of the disease, it is agreed that a single tool 
might not be sufficient in the assessment of disease activity in individual patients.  
Both belimumab Phase 3 trials (C1056 and C1057) achieved a significantly higher responder rate for 
the treatment dose applied for (10 mg/kg) compared with placebo. Belimumab treatment 
demonstrated beneficial effects with higher rates of reductions in disease activity in a population with 
involvement of vascular, musculoskeletal, immunology, and mucocutaneous organs. In study C1056, 
belimumab 10 mg/kg, in addition to standard therapy, yielded 9.41% (p=0.0207, OR=1.52, 95% CI= 
1.07, 2.15) more responders at Week 52 as compared to standard therapy only. In study C1057, 14% 
(p=0.0006, OR=1.83, 95% CI= 1.30, 2.59) more responders were seen.  
Analyses of SLE flare were performed according to the modified SLE Flare Index. In study C1056, no 
clinically relevant benefit with regard to time to first flare or frequency of flares could be shown for the 
recommended belimumab treatment dose. In study C1057 some benefits with regard to time to first 
flare and frequency of flares could be shown for the 10 mg/kg group. 
Efficacy results from placebo-controlled treatment with belimumab through 18 months (76 weeks) 
showed a diminished response rate from 9.41% to 6.10% and the difference was no longer statistically 
significant. 
While uncertainty remains about the robustness of the results for the primary endpoint in the overall 
patient population, the results of the additional analyses showed a clinically relevant treatment effect 
in patients with high disease activity (anti-dsDNA antibodies and low levels of C3 and/or C4). In the 
subset of patients with low complement (plus antiDNA-), belimumab showed similar efficacy to that 
seen in the overall population, but the numbers are limited to draw any conclusion. The data further 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 88/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reinforce the restriction of the indication to those patients with high disease activity (e.g antiDNA+/low 
complement levels). A more robust benefit is seen in this subset of patients whilst limited, or even null, 
benefit might be expected in the population with anti-dsDNA negative and/or normal complement 
levels.  
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
The feasibility of describing the appropriate target population in an indication wording was discussed 
during an ad hoc expert meeting. In principle, the experts concurred with an indication wording that 
restricts the use to patients with high disease activity. Ideally disease activity should be assessed using 
a validated disease index rather than laboratory values. However, the proposal from the company to 
use laboratory tests (anti-dsDNA, low C3/C4) only to define disease activity, rather than questionnaire, 
was considered acceptable for the indication wording. 
The effect of belimumab has only been demonstrated in a patient population with mainly 
musculoskeletal, vascular, mucocutaneous and haematological involvement. Whether the effect will 
remain in patients with involvement of vital organ/systems (cardiovascular/respiratory, CNS and renal) 
is unknown. The reason for not including patients with active nephritis or CNS involvement in the 
Phase 3 trials seems justified but does not change the fact that data in this aspect is insufficient for 
conclusions on belimumab effect on key target organs. A Phase 2 trial specific to lupus nephritis is 
planned, but does not cover for the current lack of data in more vital organ domains. Therefore, the 
CHMP concluded that the effect of belimumab has only been demonstrated in a patient population with 
mainly musculoskeletal, vascular, mucocutaneous and haematological involvement. Whether the 
observed modest effect would remain in patients with other key organ involvement (mainly renal and 
CNS) is unknown. This is clearly reflected in the labelling and a post-approval study will evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of belimumab in patients with severe active lupus nephritis.  
There are some uncertainties concerning optimal treatment duration, maintenance doses, treatment 
holidays and rebound phenomenon. The absence of information has been added as important missing 
information in the RMP and Applicant has committed to study treatment holidays and rebound 
phenomenon in upcoming studies. 
The chronic use of CS was high in both studies: 76% of patients in Study C1056 and 96% in Study 
C1057, with half of the subjects being on high CS doses, i.e. >7.5 mg/d. The CHMP questioned 
whether this could be considered as standard-of-care in all parts of the EU. A corresponding question 
was therefore asked to the ad hoc expert group. In their response, the experts acknowledged the 
variability of corticosteroid use across Europe. The experts were not concerned with high use of CS in 
the belimumab clinical trials and did not consider the pattern of CS use to impact on the ability to 
extrapolate the study results to the intended EU target population. 
Response rates varied according to race. The observed difference in effects between races was also 
discussed during the ad hoc expert meeting. The issue of a possible difference in effect between races 
was not of concern to the experts as this was considered manageable in clinical practice. However, the 
experts welcomed the company’s commitment to conduct a post-approval study to address this 
question. 
Only 1.6% of the studies population were elderly patients. Considering that in up to 15% of cases, SLE 
appears in patients over 55 years and that the disease course and response to treatment differs from 
that seen in adults, no firm conclusions regarding efficacy in elderly can be made. This is clearly 
reflected in the labelling. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 89/94
 
 
 
 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
In the placebo-controlled IV SLE CRD studies (i.e. primary safety population), the incidence and 
distribution of AEs was generally fairly similar between the placebo group and the 1 mg/kg and 
10 mg/kg belimumab groups. Common events that were reported slightly more frequently in both 
belimumab groups compared with placebo included: nausea, diarrhoea, nasopharyngitis, bronchitis, 
pain in extremity, and depression. Other events that were more commonly reported in the 10 mg/kg 
belimumab group compared with placebo included leukopenia, pyrexia, cystitis, viral gastroenteritis, 
migraine, and insomnia. However, the differences in incidence between the treatment groups for these 
common events were small. Similarly, the incidence of SAEs in the controlled SLE studies was similarly 
distributed across the treatment groups.  
In the long-term open-label continuation studies, the overall incidence of events did not appear to 
increase over time, and some events declined. Relatively few subjects discontinued because of an AE. 
The adverse event data in the RA studies (secondary safety population) were consistent with the IV 
SLE CRD studies. 
A safety concern is the occurrence of possible hypersensitivity reactions or other infusion related 
reactions. In the IV SLE CRD studies, 2.1% of subjects in the 10 mg/kg belimumab group had an AE 
that was coded as ‘infusion-related reaction’ compared with 1.3% in the 1 mg/kg group and 0.7% of 
subjects treated with placebo. Also, 0.4% of subjects in the 10 mg/kg group and 0.3% of subjects in 
the 1 mg/kg group had a severe infusion related reaction compared with 0.1% of subjects who 
received placebo.  
Four subjects (0.6%) in the 10 mg/kg belimumab group in these studies experienced SAEs of infusion 
related reaction combined with 2 subjects (0.3%) in the 1 mg/kg group and 2 (0.3%) in the placebo 
group. In addition, 2 (0.3%) subjects in the 10 mg/kg and 2 (0.3%) subjects in the 1 mg/kg group 
had SAEs coded as anaphylactic reaction or drug hypersensitivity reaction, compared with none in the 
placebo group. Two of the subjects with an anaphylactic reaction also developed angioedema. All 
events were considered at least possibly related to study drug.  
The risk of adverse infusion reactions was increased with belimumab compared with placebo. Some of 
the events were life-threatening in nature and required immediate and appropriate emergency room 
management. Overall, the incidence of serious reactions was approximately 1%, both for the 1 mg/kg 
and the 10 mg/kg dose. The mechanism of these reactions needs to be further elucidated and the 
Applicant has committed to evaluate data on infusion reactions reported from ongoing clinical trials as 
well as to perform a retrospective analysis of the two pivotal studies as part of the agreed RMP. A 
warning regarding infusion reactions and hypersensitivity is included in the SPC. 
Since belimumab is a biologic agent that inhibits the survival and differentiation of B cells, additional 
important events were considered the risk of infection and malignancy. These events were further 
analyzed by the Applicant as AEs of special interest. 
In the IV SLE CRD studies, the incidence of infections was generally comparable between the 1 mg/kg 
and 10 mg/kg belimumab treatment groups compared with placebo, with the exception of bronchitis 
and nasopharyngitis, which were slightly more common in the belimumab groups. The incidence of 
serious bronchitis was also higher for belimumab (0.4% in the 10 mg/kg group compared with 0.1% 
for placebo). 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 90/94
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of sepsis was low but also somewhat higher for belimumab compared with placebo 
(0.7% for the 10 mg/kg group compared with 0.4% for placebo). There were five SAEs of sepsis (0.7% 
of subjects) in the belimumab 10 mg/kg group compared with one subject (0.1%) in the placebo 
group. 
Overall, there were no significant differences regarding Grade 3 or Grade 4 lymphopenia, neutropenia 
and IgG levels between the placebo and the belimumab 1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg groups in the controlled 
SLE studies. However, subjects in the belimumab groups who experienced Grade 3 or Grade 4 
lymphopenia, neutropenia, or low IgM or IgG exhibited slightly higher rates of infections versus 
placebo and versus subjects without these abnormalities.  
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Belimumab is a human monoclonal antibody that specifically binds and inhibits the activity of soluble 
human BLyS, a member of the TNF ligand superfamily. BLyS promotes B-cell differentiation, 
proliferation, and Ig class switching and survival. Risks that may be associated with the use of 
immunomodulators in general are the risk of (opportunistic) infections and the potential risk for 
malignancy. It is not known to what degree these potential concerns may also apply to belimumab. 
In general, in the placebo-controlled IV SLE CRD studies, the incidence and distribution of AEs was 
generally fairly similar between the placebo group and the 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg belimumab groups, 
which would be indicative of a generally favourable safety profile. However, it is possible that the 
concomitant treatment with other immunosuppressants, such as corticosteroids, could have diminished 
the detection of certain safety signals.  
A major increase in infection incidence was not observed in the belimumab studies. The number of 
deaths with relation to sepsis in the controlled studies was slightly higher in the belimumab groups, 
compared with placebo. However, a possible relationship to belimumab was not always clear. Indeed, 
belimumab was used as an add-on treatment to standard of care SLE therapy, which typically includes 
other immunosuppressant drugs. Similarly, there were a few SAEs of opportunistic infection (including 
two cases of CMV infection) where a possible contributory role by belimumab could not be excluded. 
However, these subjects received other immunosuppressive therapies as well. 
A longer follow up is needed to clarify the additional risk of infection with prolonged belimumab 
treatment. Also, the extent of B-cell suppression with continued treatment remains to be clarified. A 
submitted update for the ongoing Study C1056, which included efficacy data for Week 76, showed a 
continued decline in B-cell subsets compared with Week 52. It is not known whether this decline 
eventually stabilizes with ongoing treatment. 
While cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported for other 
immunosuppressive drugs, to date no cases have been reported for belimumab. 
In addition, the efficacy and safety of vaccinations in patients treated with belimumab has not been 
clarified. The Applicant has committed to perform a post-approval study to assess the efficacy of 
concurrent vaccination in patients receiving belimumab treatment. 
There were slightly more reports of psychiatric disorders in the belimumab groups compared with 
placebo. The differences were small but the reasons are unclear, considering that belimumab primarily 
acts on B cells. Long-term follow-up data will be of value to determine whether there is a signal. 
No particular trends regarding malignancy were observed in the relatively short observation period of 
52 weeks of controlled data. In general, it is known that the risk of malignancy is greater in patients 
with SLE compared with a non-SLE population. Across the Phase 2 and 3 IV SLE studies (LBSL02, 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 91/94
 
 
 
 
 
C1056, C1057, and the open-label study LBSL99), the rate of malignant neoplasms (excluding NMSC) 
per 100-subject years with belimumab was similar to the rate observed in a large international SLE 
cohort study. Overall, no conclusions can be drawn with some certainty until more and longer duration 
follow-up data are available. 
No particular trends regarding malignancy were observed in the relatively short observation period of 
52 weeks of controlled data. However, malignancies are included as a potential risk in the RMP and the 
incidence of malignancies will be evaluated in a post-approval safety study evaluating the long-term 
safety of IV belimumab in SLE patients. 
Benefit-risk balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
There is an unmet medical need for novel options in SLE treatment. No new drugs have been approved 
for the indication SLE in many years. While a number of treatment options are available for SLE, many 
patients have incompletely controlled disease, resulting in irreversible damage to internal organ 
system. Standard therapy includes corticosteroids, anti-malarial agents, non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs, cytotoxic agents and immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory agents used in 
cancer or transplantation, which all causes unfavorable side-effects. Consequently, a new drug 
providing additional disease control or presenting a more favorable safety profile would be considered 
of clinical value. 
Alternative analyses performed for the two pivotal Phase 3 studies support a clinically relevant 
treatment effect of belimumab in addition to standard therapy in patients with high disease activity. A 
substantially increased likelihood of a treatment response has been shown for the subpopulation of 
patients with anti-dsDNA antibodies and low complement levels. 
The addition of 10 mg/kg belimumab to standard SLE therapy was generally well tolerated, although a 
small increase in the incidence of infections was observed. Some patients developed infusion related 
reactions, some of which were reminiscent of hypersensitivity reactions. The mechanism of these 
reactions has not been clarified but the Applicant has committed to conduct a study as part of the RMP 
to further elucidate this finding. In any case, this is not considered a major obstacle against the use of 
belimumab if appropriate preventive measures are taken as stated in the SmPC.  
Potential concerns relating to the long-term use of immunomodulators in general are the risk for 
(opportunistic) infections and the potential risk for malignancy. It is not known to what degree these 
potential concerns also apply to a compound such as belimumab. Given that SLE is a life-long illness 
that requires chronic treatment, identification of such risks is of great importance. The Applicant has 
committed to collect long-term safety data through post-approval committments.  
  Benefit-risk balance 
Despite improved treatment options for patients with SLE, there is still an unmet medical need in this 
indication for which no new medicinal products have been approved in several decades. Belimumab 
has shown to be effective as an add-on therapy in a subgroup of SLE patients that have a high degree 
of disease activity (e.g positive anti dsDNA and low complement) despite standard therapy.  
The addition of 10 mg/kg belimumab to standard SLE therapy was generally well tolerated, although a 
small increase in the incidence of infections was observed. Some patients developed infusion related 
reactions, some of which were reminiscent of hypersensitivity reactions. The long-term safety of IV 
belimumab treatment in SLE patients will be evaluated in a large post-approval safety study. In 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 92/94
 
 
 
 
 
addition, other known and potential risks as well as important missing information are adequately 
reflected in the SPC and appropriate pharmacovigilance measures are included in the RMP.  
The combined favourable effects of belimumab treatment are considered to outweigh the unfavourable 
effects. 
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Results from alternative analyses support a larger effect in patients with high disease activity indicating 
that belimumab could be of value for some patients. Based on available data it is acknowledged that a 
larger and clinically relevant benefit is shown for the subpopulation of patients with high disease 
activity (e.g.anti-dsDNA and low complement levels). The safety profile for this subgroup of patient 
does not appear to be significantly different to the safety profile for the overall study population and 
consequently the benefit-risk is considered positive. 
Overall, the study results indicate that 52 weeks belimumab treatment may provide an additional 
treatment benefit of value for some patients. However, considering the initial pre-specified analyses 
and the alternative post hoc analyses provided, the effect demonstrated for the overall study 
population must be considered modest: in the primary responder analyses there was only about a 10 
percentage difference between treatments; the support from the analyses of the secondary endpoints 
is weak. 
In the high activity subgroups, however, the magnitude of effect was more pronounced and supported 
by consistent significant results for secondary endpoints. The data on maintenance of effect was also 
more convincing in these subgroups. The results in patients with high disease activity are further 
supported by the results obtained at 52 weeks as well as 76 weeks in the responder analyses with 
more stringent response criteria. In addition a substantially increased likelihood of a treatment 
response has been shown for the subpopulation of patients with anti-dsDNA antibodies and low 
complement levels. 
From a safety point of view, although the mechanism for hypersensitivity and infusion reactions is 
currently unknown, the SmPC has been appropriately strengthened and includes recommendations for 
premedication and proper handling of potential events should they occur. 
Belimumab represents a novel concept to induce immunosuppression. Thus, uncertainty exists 
regarding the potential for development of malignancies, as well as other potential long-term risks 
such as increased risk of developing opportunistic infections, or PML. This emphasizes the need for a 
proper long-term follow up. This is addressed by a 5-year large post-marketing safety study which is 
part of the agreed RMP; in this study events of interest, including serious infections, opportunistic 
infections, and malignancies (including hematological malignancies) will be monitored. No increased 
risk of malignancy can at the current time be attributed to treatment with belimumab.  
The Risk Management Plan includes infections as an identified risk. In addition to routine 
pharmacovigilance, the Applicant will evaluate data on infections reported from ongoing and future 
clinical trials; furthermore, a post-marketing safety study will be conducted to further evaluate the 
incidence of all-cause mortality and adverse events of special interest, which include serious infections 
and opportunistic infections. For the time being no additional measures are necessary to minimize and 
monitor risk of infection. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 93/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.8.2.  Risk management plan 
A  risk  management  plan  was  submitted.  The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the 
application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine 
pharmacovigilance were needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
2.8.3.  Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
Not applicable 
2.8.4.  Market exclusivity 
Not applicable 
2.8.5.  Significance of paediatric studies 
Not applicable 
2.8.6.  Conformity with agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Not applicable 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Benlysta as add-on therapy in adult patients with active autoantibody-
positive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease activity (e.g. positive anti-
dsDNA and low complement) despite standard therapy was favourable and therefore recommended the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Assessment report Benlysta  
Page 94/94
 
 
 
 
 
 
