EMA/130586/2022 
EMEA/H/C/004913 
Beovu (brolucizumab) 
An overview of Beovu and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Beovu and what is it used for? 
Beovu is a medicine used to treat adults with  certain sight problems caused by damage to  the retina 
(the light-sensing  layer at the back of the eye), and more specifically its central region, known as the 
macula. The macula provides central vision that  is needed to see detail for everyday tasks such as 
driving, reading and recognising faces. In adults, Beovu is used to  treat: 
• 
• 
the ‘wet’  form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The wet form of AMD is caused by 
choroidal neovascularisation (the abnormal growth of blood vessels under the macula, which may 
lead to leakage of fluid and blood and cause swelling); 
visual impairment due to macular oedema (swelling of the  macula) caused by diabetes (DME). 
Beovu contains the active substance brolucizumab.  
How is Beovu used? 
Beovu is available as prefilled syringes or vials containing a solution for intravitreal injection (injection 
into the  vitreous humour, the jelly-like fluid inside the  eye). It can only be obtained with  a prescription 
and must be given by a qualified doctor who is experienced in giving intravitreal injections. 
For the treatment  of wet  AMD, Beovu is injected into the  affected eye once a month  for the first three 
doses. Afterwards, Beovu should be given every 8 or 12 weeks, depending on the activity of the 
disease.  
For the treatment  of reduced vision due to DME, Beovu is given as an injection into  the affected eye, 
once every 6 weeks for the first five doses. Afterwards, Beovu should be given every 8 or 12 weeks, 
depending on the activity of the  disease.  
Treatment with  Beovu should be stopped if the patient  is not benefitting  from it. 
For more information about using Beovu, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Beovu work? 
The active substance in Beovu, brolucizumab, is a small piece of a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal 
antibody is a type of protein that  has been designed to recognise and attach  to a specific target (called 
an antigen) that  is found in certain cells in the  body. 
Brolucizumab has been designed to attach to  and block a substance called vascular endothelial growth 
factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a protein involved in the formation and function of blood vessels. 
Increased levels of this  protein are linked with the  development of wet  AMD and DME.  By blocking 
VEGF-A, brolucizumab reduces the  growth of the blood vessels and controls the leakage and swelling. 
What benefits of Beovu have been shown in studies? 
Wet  AMD 
Beovu was investigated in two main studies lasting around 2 years involving a total  of around 1,800 
patients with  the wet  form of AMD. The studies  compared Beovu (given once a month  for 3 months, 
then every 8 or 12  weeks) with  aflibercept (another treatment for AMD) given once a month  for 3 
months, then  every 8 weeks. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in patients’ vision 
after the first year of treatment, measured as the  number of letters that  they could recognise on a 
standard eye test. Both studies also looked at the maintenance of the  effect in the  second year of 
treatment.  
Beovu was shown to be as effective as aflibercept in maintaining  vision in  patients with  wet AMD. In 
the first study, patient’s  vision improved on average by 6.4  letters in patients treated with  Beovu and 
by 7 letters in patients given aflibercept. In the second study, the improvement was 6.9 letters for 
patients given Beovu and 7.6 letters for patients given aflibercept. During the second year of 
treatment, the  effectiveness of Beovu was generally maintained. 
DME 
Beovu was shown to be effective in treating reduced vision due to DME in two  main studies involving a 
total of 926  patients. These studies compared Beovu given once every 6 weeks for the  first five doses 
and then every 8 or 12  weeks with aflibercept (another treatment for DME)  given once a month for five 
months and then every 8 weeks. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in  patients’ vision 
after the first year of treatment, measured as the  number of letters that  they could recognise on a 
standard eye test. 
In both studies, Beovu was as effective as aflibercept in improving vision in patients after one year of 
treatment. In the first study,  patients treated with  Beovu improved on their  test score by 9.2 letters on 
average, compared with 10.5  letters in patients given aflibercept. In the second study,  improvement 
was 10.6 letters for patients treated with  Beovu and 9.4 letters for patients  treated with aflibercept.  
What are the risks associated with Beovu? 
The most common side effects with  Beovu (which may affect up to  1 in 10 people) are reduced visual 
acuity, cataract (clouding of the  lens in  the eye), conjunctival haemorrhage (bleeding at the front  of 
the eye) and vitreous floaters (spots in the vision). The most serious side effects (which  may affect up 
to 1 in 100  people) are blindness, endophthalmitis  (an infection inside the eye), retinal artery occlusion 
(blockage of the artery in the retina) and retinal detachment (separation of the  retina from the back of 
the eye). For the  full list of side effects of Beovu, see the package leaflet. 
Beovu must not  be used in patients active or suspected infection in or around the  eye, and in patients 
with  active inflammation inside the eye. For  the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Beovu (brolucizumab)  
EMA/130586/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Beovu authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that  Beovu was shown to  be effective at improving vision 
in patients  with wet  AMD and in patients  with  DME. The safety of Beovu was considered similar to that 
of medicines of the same type and was considered acceptable. The Agency therefore decided that 
Beovu’s benefits are greater than its  risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Beovu? 
The company that  markets Beovu will provide educational materials for patients with  information about 
wet AMD and DME, how Beovu works and how  it is given, and what  to expect from the treatment. The 
patient guide will  also include information about Beovu’s side effects and on when to seek urgent 
medical attention  after treatment with  the medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Beovu have also been included in the  summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Beovu are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Beovu are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Beovu 
Beovu received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 13 February 2020. 
Further information on Beovu can be found on the  Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/beovu.   
This overview was last updated in  03-2022. 
Beovu (brolucizumab)  
EMA/130586/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
