EMA/23630/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Beovu 
International non-proprietary name: brolucizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004913/II/0010 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European  Union       
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Type II Variation ........................................................................................ 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction .............................................................................................. 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .................................................................................... 5 
2.3. Clinical aspects .........................................................................................10 
2.4. Clinical eff icacy .........................................................................................12 
2.5. Clinical safety ...........................................................................................75 
3. Risk management plan ........................................................................ 117 
3.1. Overall conclusion on the RMP .................................................................... 119 
4. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 120 
4.1. Therapeutic Context................................................................................. 120 
4.2. Favourable effects ................................................................................... 120 
4.3. Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects ....................................... 121 
4.4. Unfavourable effects ................................................................................ 121 
4.5. Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects.................................... 122 
4.6. Effects Table .......................................................................................... 122 
4.7. Benef it-risk assessment and discussion ......................................................... 124 
4.8. Conclusions ........................................................................................... 124 
5. Recommendations............................................................................... 125 
Outcome ..................................................................................................... 125 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 2/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II Variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008,  Novartis Europharm Limited 
submitted  to the European Medicines Agency on 26 July 2021  an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation  requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension of indication to include treatment of visual impairment due to DME  for Beovu; as a 
consequence, sections 4.1, 4.4,  4.8, and 5.1 of the SmPC are updated. The Package Leaflet is updated 
in accordance. Version 4.0 of the RMP has also been submitted. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet and to the  Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006,  the application included an EMA Decision 
CW/0001/2015  on the granting  of a class waiver. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000  and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000,  the MAH  did not submit  a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to  the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The MAH did not  seek Scientific advice at  the CHMP. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 3/125 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
Description 
Start of procedure 
CHMP  Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC Outcome 
Request for supplementary information 
Submission of responses  
Re-start of procedure 
CHMP  Rapporteur Response Assessment Report 
PRAC Rapporteur Response Assessment Report 
PRAC members comments 
Updated PRAC Rapporteur Response Assessment Report 
PRAC Outcome 
CHMP  members comments 
Updated CHMP  Rapporteur Response Assessment Report 
Opinion 
Actual Date 
14 Aug 2021 
08 Oct 2021 
08 Oct 2021 
28 Oct 2021 
11 Nov 2021 
21 Dec 2021 
27 Dec 2021 
25 Jan 2022 
28 Jan 2022 
02 Feb 2022 
03 Feb 2022 
10 Feb 2022 
14 Feb 2022 
17 Feb 2022 
24 Feb 2022 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 4/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Diabetic macular edema (DME) is characterised by exudative fluid accumulation in the macula. When the  
area of swelling involves the center of the  macula, the fovea, it  leads to clinical impairment of vision. 
DME  is  a  frequent  manifestation  of  diabetic  retinopathy  (DR)  and  is  the  major cause  of  vision  loss in 
patients with  DR. Patients can develop DME at any stage during the progression of DR. 
The  pathophysiological  processes begin  with  chronic  hyperglycaemia, and  interplay  between  vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and inflammatory mediators. 
Estimates  of  the  prevalence of  DME  in  patients  with  Type I  and  Type II DM  range  between  4.2%  and 
7.9%,  and 1.4%  and 12.8%, respectively (Lee et al 2015). 
The  current  treatment  options  for  patients  with  visual  impairment  secondary to  DME  are:  intravitreal 
anti-VEGF  (which  includes  ranibizumab  (Lucentis®),  aflibercept  (Eylea®)),  laser  photocoagulation, 
intravitreal corticosteroids, or intravitreal corticosteroid implants. 
However, intravitreal anti-VEGF treatments can be a significant burden to patients. Thus, there is a need 
to develop therapies with  a longer effect. Additionally, in the  context where the efficacy of an anti-VEGF 
can reduce over the time and requires a switch to another anti-VEGF together with the fact some patients  
have a poor treatment  effect to available therapies lead a need of additional alternatives therapies. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Toxicology 
2.2.1.1.  Introduction 
As  part  of  the  initial  marketing  authorization  application  for  the  use  of  brolucizumab  for  the  nAMD 
indication,  the  non-clinical  safety  of  up  to  6  mg  brolucizumab  was  established  for  IVT 
injection  in 
cynomolgus monkeys in Good Laboratory Practice (GLP)-regulated repeated-dose  studies. 
All repeat-dose IVT toxicology studies were conducted in cynomolgus monkeys as they are the only species 
in  which  brolucizumab is  both  pharmacologically active and  possessing  a  similar  ocular  anatomy  to 
humans, providing a relevant and well understood animal model in which  toxicity following IVT injection 
can be assessed. In these studies, animals were dosed  unilaterally (to provide an untreated contralateral 
control)  with  up  to  6  mg  brolucizumab/50  microliter  (µL)  injection  volume (maximum  formulatable 
dose) using a  dosing interval  designed to mimic or exaggerate clinical use.  Systemic IV toxicity studies 
were  not  conducted  with  brolucizumab  due  to  the  extremely  low  systemic  exposure  following  IVT 
administration,  the  lack  of  systemic  toxicity  following  repeated  unilateral  IVT  injections  of  up  to  6 
mg  brolucizumab every 3  or  4  weeks, and the  extensive clinical experience with  vascular  endothelial 
growth factor inhibitors. 
In  the  context  of  this  type II  variation  to  extend the  indication  to  DME  patients,  the  MAH submits  an 
ePPND study in  Cynomolgus monkeys. 
2.2.1.2.  Reproduction toxicity 
To  evaluate  the  potential  effects  of  brolucizumab  on  pregnancy  and  parturition,  lactational  transfer, 
embryo-fetal  development  and  survival,  growth,  and  postnatal  development  of  offspring,  an  ePPND 
toxicity study (no.1670189)  was conducted in Cynomolgus monkeys. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 5/125 
 
 
 
In response to a question during the assessment, the Applicant has submitted historical data for animals 
at the same laboratory, to contextualise the  findings. The data are shown below: 
Table Summary of facility historical control data for abortion incidence by trimester 
Historical control data:  Abortions 
1st Trimester 
2nd Trimester 
3rd Trimester 
Incidence 
Percentage 
15 
6 
1 
8.8 
3.1 
0.5 
Data based on 12 studies conducted at the Testing Facility  during the period of 2013  to 2021  and 
consists of 194 control animals. 
The historical control still  birth rate is 13/194  or 6.7%  with  a range of 0-19%. 
Female cynomolgus monkeys (16/group)  received IVT injections  of brolucizumab at 0,3  or 6 mg  in the  
right eye once every 4 weeks beginning on Day 20 post-coitum (p.c.)  to delivery (total 6 doses on days 
20,  48,  76,  104,  132,  and  160  p.c.).  Four  females  from each  group with  surviving  infants  on  Day 28 
post-partum  (p.p.)  received an  additional  dose  on  Day  28  p.p.  and  had  blood  and  milk  collected  for 
toxicokinetic evaluations. 
Criteria for evaluation included clinical observations, pregnancy monitoring, assessments of body weights 
and  body  weight  changes,  parturition,  ophthalmic  observations, and  clinical  pathology evaluations  for 
maternal  animals.  For  infants,  clinical  observations,  assessments  of  body  weights  and  body  weight 
changes, external and morphological examinations, neurobehavioral test batteries, assessments of grip 
strength and skeletal development, and clinical pathology evaluations were performed for up to 12 weeks 
postnatal. On day 92 p.p., all surviving maternal animals were necropsied and subjected to a macroscopic 
examination of the external features of the carcass, and of the uterus. Surviving infants were necropsied 
on  PND92±1  and  subjected  to  a  similar  macroscopic examination,  with  additional  recording  of  organ 
weights.  Blood  samples  were  collected  for  toxicokinetic,  monkey  chorionic  gonadotropin  (maternal 
animals only), and anti-drug  antibody (ADA) analyses. The main results are detailed below. 
Animal fate:  there was no  treatment-related mortality  amongst maternal  animals; a low-dosed female 
was  euthanized  in  moribund  condition  on  GD133  due  to  edema  of  the  legs  likely  due  to  pregnancy 
complications. Infant mortality was observed in all groups; none was attributed  to maternal exposure to 
the test-article. 
Pregnancy outcome 
Gestation length  was within  the  normal, expected range of 134  to 184  days (Van Esch et  al., 2008)  for 
all animals and no treatment-related difference in gestation length  was noted. 
No test article-related effects on the incidence of abortions, stillbirths, or unscheduled deaths were noted. 
Pregnancy loss  (abortions  and  stillbirths)  occurred  in  maternal  control  animals  and  maternal  animals 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 6/125 
 
 
 
 
 
administered  6  mg/eye.  Prenatal  loss  is  a  common  occurrence  in  this  species  (Jarvis  et  al.,  2010; 
Weinbauer  et  al.,  2011a).  In  the  control  group,  two  first-trimester  (Days  21  to  50  p.c.)  abortions 
occurred. No  pregnancy  losses or  stillbirths  occurred in  maternal  animals  administered 3  mg/eye.  In 
maternal animals administered 6 mg/eye, two second-trimester (Days 51 to 100 p.c.) abortions and two 
stillbirths  occurred. Incidences of abortions and stillbirths  were within  the normal range, as indicated on 
the nomogram, and were not attributed  to the test article. The total  number of surviving infants on PND 
7  for each group included  11  from maternal control  animals, 14  from maternal animals administered 3 
mg/eye, and 8 from maternal animals administered 6 mg/eye. 
Clinical  observations:  no  test  article-related  clinical  observations  were  noted  in  maternal  animals  or 
surviving infants. 
Ophthalmic examinations (maternal animals): no test article-related ophthalmic observations were noted 
in maternal animals. The observations of vitreous cells were noted in all groups (including controls) and 
were considered due to the  dosing procedure. 
Body  weights:  no  test  article-related  alterations  in  body  weight  or  body  weight  gain  were  noted  in 
maternal or infant  animals. 
External examinations (infants): no test article-related external abnormalities were noted – examinations 
were performed on PND 1, 7, 14,  21, 28 and then every 4 weeks for up to 3 months. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 7/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Morphological  examination  (infants):  no  test  article-related  effect  was  noted  -  anogenital  distance, 
left/right  arm/leg  length,  crown-heel  length,  crown-rump  length,  eye  distance,  thorax  circumference, 
tail length  were evaluated on PND 1, 21,  56, and 84. 
Grip strength (infants):  No test article-related effects on infant grip strength  on PND 28 were observed. 
All infants passed this test (ability to hold for at least 30 seconds) or demonstrated the ability to climb. 
Neurobehavioural test battery (infants):  the data  for infants  from treated animals were similar to  those 
obtained for infants from the control group. Of note, parameters evaluated on PND 1 and 7 included face 
color,  behaviour  in  cage,  behaviour  in  hand,  respiration  rate,  observed  and  elicited  postural  tones, 
elicited dorsiflexion, buildup, grasp support,  righting  reflex, prone progression, clasp support, following  
of  eyes, lipsmack orient,  sucking, rooting,  snout  reflex, pupil  response, glabellar tap,  nystagmus,  and 
moro reflex.  
Skeletal development (infants):  radiographic assessments of  the  entire  skeleton  conducted  on  PND50 
(±2)  did  not  report any treatment-related  pathological finding;  skeletal development of  infant  animals 
was considered according to age. 
Clinical  pathology:  no  treatment-related  hematology,  coagulation,  and  clinical  chemistry  effects  were 
observed in maternal (Days 20  and 132  p.c.) and infant (PND42, 56,  70) animals. 
Terminal  procedures: no  treatment-related  effect  was  noted  at  macroscopic examination  of  maternal 
and infant animals. No test  article-related infant organ weight differences were present. 
Toxicokinetics 
Exposure to brolucizumab in maternal milk or infant serum was not observed after IVT administration of 
brolucizumab 3 or 6 mg/eye to maternal animals. Serum exposure to brolucizumab in maternal animals 
increased with  the increase in  dose level from 3 to  6 mg/eye on Day 48 p.c., Day 132 p.c., and Day 28 
p.p.  The increases in  mean Cmax and AUC0-24 values were  approximately dose proportional. Exposure 
was generally similar after multiple monthly doses when compared to the second dose on Day 48 p.c. 
Anti-drug  antibodies (ADA) were detected  in  some maternal animals and  infants.  In general, maternal 
animals  screened positive  for  the  presence  of  ADAs: 8/16  in  the  control  group;  14/16  in  Group  2  (3 
mg/eye);  and  9/16  in  Group  3  (6  mg/eye)  animals.  Infant  animals  did  not  screen  positive  for  the  
presence of  ADAs in  the  control group, but  5/12  in Group 2  (3  mg/eye) infants  and 1/7  in Group  3  (6 
mg/eye) screened positive  for  the  presence of  ADAs. However,  no  maternal  animals showed  reduced 
exposure consistent with  an ADA-response, and exposure to brolucizumab was not demonstrated in any 
infant animal. All infants with  anti-brolucizumab antibodies had mothers that  were also positive for anti-
brolucizumab antibodies but  not all mothers positive for anti-brolucizumab antibodies had infants that   
were positive. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 8/125 
 
 
 
 
Discussion and conclusion 
The  rates  reported  are  within  the  margins  of  the  historical  data  for  animals  at  the  same laboratory. 
However, the  sensitivity of the model is questioned. 
During  the  scientific  advice held  in  February 2016,  it  was  considered that,  should  an in  vivo study be 
conducted, the intravenous route should be preferably used; the IVT route was challenged since sufficient 
margin to  clinical exposure might  not be  achieved to  allow for firm conclusions.  It was  also considered 
that a NOAEL >20-fold higher clinical exposure would provide reassurance regarding a risk to the growing 
foetus. 
In the  present study, the  IVT route  was used and the Cmax-based exposure ratio  at the  maximal dose 
of 6 mg/eye was equal to 6. In addition, pre-dosing plasma levels of brolucizumab were not quantifiable 
(BLQ) in all treated animals on GD48, and in most treated animals on GD132 - 14/15 at 3 mg/eye; 9/11 
at  6 mg/eye. This suggests that  maternal animals might  have been exposed intermittently  to the  test-
article during the treatment period (including organogenesis). 
Exposure to  brolucizumab in  maternal milk  or  infant  serum  was  not  observed  in  the  study.  However, 
brolucizumab may affect placenta  (formation, growth)  due  to  its  VEGF-inhibiting  properties.  This  point 
could not be fully addressed in the monkey study since placentas and umbilical cords were collected, but 
discarded without  any evaluation. 
Overall,  it  is  not  certain  that  the  treatment  modalities  used  in  the  ePPND  study  induced  sufficient 
exposure of treated animals to provide reassuring data for human  risk assessment. The added value of 
that study is uncertain since it does not mitigate the known risks of brolucizumab-induced VEGF inhibition 
for embryo-foetal development. 
In response to these concerns, the MAH has amended the SPC 5.3 section to indicate that “based on its 
pharmacological  effect,  brolucizumab  should  be  regarded  as  potentially  teratogenic  and  embryo-
foetotoxic”.  
2.2.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According to  Directive 2001/83/EC  and Guideline EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  corr 2,  medicinal products 
containing vitamins, electrolytes, amino acids, peptides, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids as an active 
pharmaceutical ingredient,  an  ERA  should  be  provided. This  ERA may  consist  of  a  justification  for  not 
submitting  ERA  studies,  e.g.  due  to  their  nature  they  are unlikely  to  result  in  a  significant  risk to  the  
environment.  
Brolucizumab is  a  humanized single-chain  Fv  (scFv)  antibody  fragment  of vascular  endothelial  growth 
factor  (VEGF)  with  a molecular weight  of  ~26  kDa which  inhibits  vascular endothelial  growth  factor  A 
(VEGF-A) binding to its receptors VEGFR1 and VEGFR2. Beovu (brolucizumab) has been approved in the 
EU  on  the  13-Feb-2020  for  for the  treatment  of  visual impairment  related  to  neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration (nAMD). The ERA is updated to support the type II variation in which Brolucizumab 
is being proposed for the  treatment of visual impairment related to  diabetic macular edema (DME)  
Brolucizumab is  recombinantly produced  in  E.  coli  by  standard  expression technology  and  purified  by 
protein refolding and consecutive chromatography steps.  The processes are free of any animal-derived 
or human-derived products.  
Brolucizumab  is  provided  as  120  mg/mL  solution  for  injection  in  a  vial  and  pre-filled  syringe  and  is 
administered by intravitreal injection.  
In addition  to  the active pharmaceutical ingredient,  the drug  product contains  the following  excipients, 
which  are  either  naturally  occurring  or  not  of  environmental  concern:  sodium  citrate,  citric  acid, 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 9/125 
 
 
 
polysorbate 80, sucrose, and water for injection. The marketing of Brolucizumab for the indications cited 
above will not increase the amount of any of these commonly used excipients in the environment to any 
significant extent.  
Any active pharmaceutical ingredient that reaches water streams after use in patients, via eventual spills 
during  Brolucizumab  application,  or  after  disposal  of  an  unused  drug  is  expected  to  be  very  rapidly 
degraded by biotic and abiotic processes.  
Therefore, to the best of its  knowledge, there is no appreciable risk for the environment emerging from 
the  additional  use of  Brolucizumab for the  treatment  of diabetic  macular edema in  the  EU  market.  No 
further evaluation of Brolucizumab has been provided and this  is considered acceptable. 
2.2.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The added value of the  ePPND study is  uncertain since maternal animals were not  sufficiently  exposed 
to  brolucizumab.  Therefore,  the  absence of  developmental  toxicity  observed under  the  experimental 
conditions  of that  study does not  mitigate  the known risks of brolucizumab-induced VEGF inhibition  for 
human  embryo-foetal development. In  line  with  this,  a  statement  in  section  5.3  of the  SPC has  been 
added  as  follows:  that  “based  on  its  pharmacological  effect,  brolucizumab  should  be  regarded  as 
potentially teratogenic and embryo-foetotoxic”. 
The  applicant  provided  a  suitable  justification  for  not  performing  an  Environmental  Risk  Assessment 
(ERA)  in  line  with  the  guidance  from  the  “Guideline  on  the  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  the  
medicinal products  for  human  use” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  corr 2).  Brolucizumab  is a  monoclonal 
antibody  and  is  unlikely  to  result  in  significant  risk  to  the  environment.  No  further  evaluation  of 
Brolucizumab has been provided and this  was considered acceptable. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH. 
The  MAH  has  provided a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  
were carried out  in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 10/125 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.3.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
Brolucizumab functions by binding  to  human VEGF-A and thereby neutralizing  its activity.  The effect of 
brolucizumab  on  pharmacodynamic aspects  of  disease activity  was  assessed in  two  pivotal  Phase III 
clinical  studies  ((CRTH258B2301)  and  (CRTH258B2302))  in  the  DME  population.  The  effect  of 
brolucizumab  was  evaluated  functionally  by  the  change  in  visual  acuity  (ETDRS  letter  score)  and 
morphologically by changes in  anatomical parameters (i.e., CSFT,  presence of retinal fluid  and vascular 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 11/125 
 
 
 
  
leakage). In these studies, brolucizumab 6 mg demonstrated robust vision gain and clinically meaningful 
anatomical improvement. 
The primary endpoint, measured by change from baseline in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at Week 
52,  demonstrated non-inferiority  for  brolucizumab  compared to  aflibercept despite  fewer  injections  in 
brolucizumab 6  mg arms. In  addition,  a greater proportion of subjects  with  retinal fluid  resolution  was 
observed in the  brolucizumab 6 mg compared to  aflibercept 2 mg arm, with  more than  half of subjects 
(55.1%  in (CRTH258B2301) and 50.3% in (CRTH258B2302))  in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm maintained  
on a q12w dosing interval at Week 52. 
No  direct measure of target  engagement between brolucizumab and  VEGF in  the  eye was determined, 
because it  is  not  feasible to  collect retina  and  RPE-choroid samples from human  subjects.  In  addition, 
the systemic suppression of free VEGF was not  determined. 
Data in  the  marketing authorization  application  for brolucizumab  in  nAMD showed,  increased levels of 
signaling  through  the  VEGF  pathway  are  associated  with  pathologic  ocular  angiogenesis  and  retinal 
edema and  brolucizumab  functions  by  binding  to  human  VEGF-A and  thereby  neutralizing  its  activity. 
However, direct target  engagement between  brolucizumab and VEGF in  the eye or systemic circulation 
was  not  assessed in  the  nAMD  application  nor  this  new  indication  submission as  the  concentration  of 
VEGF in the serum is not known to be directly associated with  the VEGF concentration in the  eye. 
2.3.3.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
As in the initial Marketing Authorisation  Application, no specific pharmacodynamic studies were 
conducted with  brolucizumab. It is intended that  intravitreal injection would allow adequate vitreous 
concentration to bind ocular VEGF. Nonclinical studies provided at the time  of the  MAA together with 
anatomical evaluation in Phase III studies suggest that brolucizumab, by binding  VEGF, has well a PD 
effect on exudative fluid accumulation in the macula. The applicant’s conclusions are thus  supported.  
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Main study(ies) 
Pivotal studies B2301 and B2302 
The clinical development is based on two pivotal studies: CRTH258B2301  (KESTREL study) and 
CRTH258B2302 (KITE study). The design of both Phase III studies is globally similar. 
The  Applicant  conducted  2  randomized, double-masked, multicenter,  active-controlled  clinical  trials  to 
compare the efficacy and safety of brolucizumab 6 mg versus aflibercept 2 mg (Eylea®), in subjects with 
visual impairments due to Diabetic Macular Edema (DME). Both studies are conducted versus aflibercept 
2 mg IVT (Eylea®). 
The total studies duration was 100  weeks. 
The main difference in study design were that KESTREL study included a brolucizumab 3 mg treatment 
arm in  addition to the 6 mg arm, while the 6 mg dose only has been investigated in KITE study. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 12/125 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study participants 
Subjects ≥18 years of age with either type 1 or 2 controlled diabetes mellitus and visual impairment due 
to diabetic macular edema were included in the  study population. The Applicants indicated that,  in both 
studies,  the  study  population  was representative of  the  DME  target  population  and  was similar  to  the  
population  of  the  pivotal  VIVID and  VISTA Phase  III  studies  supporting  the  use  of  aflibercept  in  DME 
patients. 
Main inclusion  criteria were: 
• Subjects with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus and HbA1c of ≤10%  at screening. 
• Medication for the management of diabetes had to be stable within  3 months prior to randomization 
and is expected to remain stable during the course of the  study 
• Visual impairment due to DME  with: 
- BCVA score between 78  and 23  letters,  inclusive, using ETDRS visual acuity testing  charts at a  
testing  distance of  4 meters (approximate Snellen equivalent of 20/32  to  20/320)  at  screening 
and baseline 
- DME involving the center of the macula, with central subfield retinal thickness of (measured from 
RPE to ILM inclusively) ≥320 μm on SD-OCT at  screening 
If both eyes were eligible, the eye with the worse visual acuity was selected for study eye. However, the 
investigator  could  have  selected the  eye with  better  visual  acuity,  based  on  medical  reasons or  local 
ethical requirements. 
Exclusion criteria included among others: 
• Previous treatment with  any anti-VEGF  drugs or investigational drugs in the study eye 
• Use of dexamethasone intravitreal implant  (Ozurdex) or fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant 
(Iluvien) in study eye at  any time.  Prior use of other intraocular or periocular corticosteroids in the 
study eye is not an exclusion provided at  least 6-month  wash-out prior to baseline 
• Laser photocoagulation (focal/grid  or panretinal) in  the study  eye during the  3  month period prior 
to baseline 
• Intraocular surgery including YAG laser in the study eye during the 3 month period prior to baseline 
• History of vitreoretinal surgery in study eye 
• Aphakia with  the absence of posterior capsule in  the study eye 
• Active PDR in the study eye as per investigator 
• Uncontrolled blood pressure defined as a systolic value ≥160 mmHg or diastolic value ≥100 mmHg 
at screening or baseline 
Overall, the inclusion and the exclusion criteria are consistent  with the  target population.  
However, it is to emphasize that the upper baseline BCVA limit for inclusion was 78 letters. It is supported 
that  source population  should reflect current usual  practice where patients  can be treated early in 
the  course  of the  disease despite  a  mild  impairment  only.  Nonetheless,  given  that  84  letters are 
equivalent  to  a 20/20  visual acuity,  these  patients  have a  less room  for improvement, inferior  to 
the mean change in BCVA at Week 52 for in primary analysis observed for every treatment groups. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 13/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the limited room for improvement could be in favor of the non-inferiority. To that extent, 
subset analysis by BCVA at Baseline will be of importance, showing that conclusion are not changed 
while  removing  less impaired  patients.  As a  note,  the  upper  limit  of 73  letters  had  been  used  in 
VISTA and VIVID studies to demonstrate the non-inferiority of Eylea compared to laser. 
Regarding  previous  treatments,  the  population  includes  both  treatment-naïve  patients  and  subjects 
already treated  by corticosteroids or  laser. The 6-month  wash-out  period and  the  3-month  wash-
out  period  prior  respectively  use  of  other  intraocular  or  periocular  corticosteroids  and  laser 
photocoagulation are considered acceptable. 
Following a question on this point, the Applicant clarified that KESTREL and KITE studies were conducted 
in  40  countries  globally,  of  which  22  were  in  Europe,  and  44.5%  (412/926)  of  the  total  study 
population  were enrolled  from these  European  countries.  In  KESTREL  study,  29.7%  (168/566)  of 
the enrolled subjects were from European countries. In KITE study, 67.8% (244/360) of the enrolled 
subjects  were  from  European  countries.  This  appears  sufficient  to  generalise  the  results  to  a 
European population. 
Based on the study reports, the clinical overview and the clinical summary, it is no clear in which countries 
the  two  studies have been conducted.  Thus,  there are uncertainties whether  the  study  population 
are  representative  enough  of  the  European  population.  Therefore,  the  list  of  countries  where 
subjects  were  enrolled, as  well  as  the  number  of  subjects  per country,  need  to  be  provided and 
discussed. 
Treatments 
Dose and regimen 
The  Applicant  stated  the  doses  for  brolucizumab  are  based on  the  Phase  III  brolucizumab  studies  in 
nAMD,  wherein  brolucizumab  6  and  3  mg  doses  showed  comparable  efficacy  and  safety  profiles  to 
existing anti-VEGFs with  numerical advantages related to efficacy for the  higher dose. 
For both phase III studies, the Applicant had tested the 6 mg dose. Additionally, the 3 mg dose had been 
investigated  in  B2301  study.  The  Applicant  emphasizes  that  it  was  to  evaluate  the  dose-response 
following multiple  dosing with  brolucizumab in patients with  DME. 
Brolucizumab is for intravitreal injections (IVT), planned to be supply as sterile glass vials as well as pre-
filled syringe. 
The comparator was aflibercept 2 mg for IVT (Eylea). 
Patients in  brolucizumab arms (3 mg and 6  mg) received 5 loading doses every 6 weeks (q6w) (Day 0, 
Week 6,  Week 12,  Week 18 and Week 24),  followed by maintenance regimens every 12 weeks (q12w) 
or every 8 weeks (q8w)  depending on  the disease activity  status. At  the first  round of assessment, the  
CHMP  noted  that  Pro  Re  Nata  (PRN)  neither  Treat-and-Extend  (T-&-E)  had  not  been  investigated. 
However,  these  treatment  strategies  are  largely  used  in  common  practice  to  manage  anti-VEGF  IVT 
medication,  especially to  reduce the  treatment  burden.  The  Applicant  pointed  out  that  an  even more 
personalised regimen approach was  assessed during year 2  of the KITE study  with  a 4-week extension 
to  prolong  the  treatment  interval  from  q8w  to  q12w,  or  q12w  to  q16w.  Based  on  the  masked 
investigator’s discretion, a 4-week treatment interval extension could be made to the subject’s treatment 
regimen  at  the  time  of  Week  72.  Considering  the  study  duration  (i.e.  100  weeks),  starting  more 
personalized treatment  at  Week 72,  this  however does  not  allow  to  fully  investigate  the  adequacy of 
such individualized treatment  in brolucizumab given the  short period of assessment (e.g. only one cycle 
of  treatment  for  patient  under  the  q16w  regimen).  Thus,  no  strong  conclusion  can  be  drawn.  The 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 14/125 
 
 
 
Applicant  is  still  encouraged  to  further  investigate  personalised  regimen  for  brolucizumab  in  DME  in 
additional studies. 
Patients  in  aflibercept arms received monthly  5  loading doses (Day 0,  Week 4,  Week 8,  Week 12  and 
Week 16),  followed by maintenance regimen every 8 weeks (q8w). 
Figure 1: Dosing schedule in B2301 
Figure 2: Dosing schedule in B2302 
The  Applicant  indicates that  the  peak effect in  BCVA gain  and  CSFT  reduction observed after 6  weeks 
following  a single intravitreal injection of brolucizumab 6  mg in early Phase I/II study in  nAMD and the  
sustained  disease control  during  the  loading  phase  in  nAMD  Phase  III studies  were  the  basis  for  an 
extended  interval  between  brolucizumab  injections  in  the  loading  phase  to  6  weeks in  DME  studies. 
Additionally, the  Applicant  explained that  the  positive nAMD  Phase III study  results  support  q12w/q8w 
regimen during  the maintenance phase also for  DME.   Both,  extended intervals  in  the  initial  treatment 
phase (loading regimen) and q12w/q8w dosing in the  maintenance phase, aim at reducing the injection 
burden. 
Assessment of disease activity 
The  suitability  of  the  proposed  q12w  regimen,  and  assessment  of  the  need  for  more  frequent  q8w 
treatment,  was  monitored  through  DAA  (Disease  Activity  Assessment)  conducted  by  the  masked 
investigator. Subjects were to remain on the  q12w regimen as long as the  masked investigator did not 
identify  DME  disease  activity  at  the  DAAs,  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  investigator,  required  more 
frequent anti-VEGF treatment.   
The  presence  of  disease  activity  was  determined  by  the  masked  investigator.  The  outcome  of  this  
assessment was captured as: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 15/125 
 
 
 
 
 
•  ‘q8w-need’:  identified  disease activity  which  according to  the  masked investigator  requires more 
frequent  anti-VEGF  treatment,  e.g.:  ≥5  letters loss  in  BCVA (compared to  Week 28)  which-based 
on anatomical parameters – is attributable  to DME disease activity. 
•  ‘no q8w-need’: otherwise. 
Further to a question from CHMP, the Applicant indicated that  no defined exact criteria have been set for 
disease activity assessment in  order to  mimic  real-world practice. While this  is not  a conservative 
approach, this  can be  understood. Additionally,  it  is acknowledged that  the  proportion  of subjects 
in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm was maintained on a q12w regimen, meaning with no disease activity, 
was relatively similar across the two KITE and KESTREL studies. This suggest that no large variation 
in disease activity assessment occurred across investigators. 
Rationale for choice of comparator 
The  Applicant  justifies  the  choice  of Aflibercept  2  mg  as comparator being  an  established  standard  of 
care option for DME. It was chosen as comparator for this study due to the consistency of the approved 
label of aflibercept (Eylea®) for DME across many countries, especially EU and US. 
Aflibercept is agreed as a relevant comparator as it  is part of the standard of care for DME. 
Objectives and outcomes/endpoints 
The primary, secondary and exploratory objectives for the B2301 and B2302 studies are presented below 
along with  their respective endpoints. 
B2301 Study 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 16/125 
 
 
 
 
 
B2302 Study 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 17/125 
 
 
 
 
Overall, objectives and endpoints are acceptable. 
Testing  the  non-inferiority  of  brolucizumab  compared  to  a  current  standard  of  care  medication  (i.e. 
Eylea®) for primary analysis appears relevant. 
The  mean  change  in  BCVA from  baseline  is  an  acceptable  primary  endpoint  with  clinical  relevance in 
DME. Likewise, the primary timepoint  (i.e. 52 weeks) is reasonable in order to observe treatment effect 
with respect to the natural course of the disease. Additionally, the Applicant planned to assess the mean 
change in  BCVA from Baseline averaged over the period Week 40 to  Week 52, which is welcomed in the 
context of multiple regimens (i.e. q8w  and q12w). 
Third and  fourth secondary endpoints  are consistent  since the  Applicant want  to  show the  suitability  of 
the  q12w  regimen  in  the  management  of  brolucizumab  IVT.  However,  although  endpoints  on  the 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 18/125 
 
 
 
 
 
suitability  of  the  q12w  regimen  are  flagged  as  key  secondary  endpoints,  there  are  not  part  of  the  
hierarchical strategy given no testing analysis can be done; no comparison to  aflibercept is possible, so 
results  are descriptive only. Additionally,  given that  the  regimen of the  aflibercept  arms was fixed,  no 
comparison about treatment burden with  current approved medication can be done. 
The justified  the ranking of the  key secondary endpoints  reporting that  CSFT reduction  was deemed to  
be more clinically impactful and more widely used than  fluid resolution.  
In response to a  question by the  CHMP,  the  Applicant  has also included results  at 100  weeks, that  are 
reported below. 
Sample size 
Sample size 
A sample size of  160  subjects per arm was  considered for both  studies B2301  and  B2302  to  allow  the 
demonstration of the non-inferiority (non-inferiority margin of 4 ETDRS letters) of brolucizumab 6 mg or 
3 mg (either treatment regimen) vs. aflibercept 2 mg with  respect to the BCVA change from baseline at 
Week 52,  with  90%  power (disregarding the  dependence within  the  sequential  testing  procedure, i.e., 
local power for 3 mg) at a one-sided alpha level of 0.025, assuming equal means and a common standard 
deviation of 11  letters. Assuming that  averaging over the 4 time points would  not lead to  an increase in 
the  standard  deviation,  a  power  of  at  least  90%  could  also  be  expected  for  its  corresponding  non-
inferiority claim. 
Considering a drop-out rate of 10%, 178  per arm were planned to be randomised. As a result, a total of 
534 subjects were to be randomised in Study B2301 (3 arms) and 356 subjects in Study B2302 (2 arms). 
Rationale for choice of non-inferiority margin 
Non-inferiority  testing  related to  the  primary efficacy parameter BCVA in  both  studies  was based on  a 
margin of  4  letters for  the  change from baseline in  BCVA at Week 52. According  to  the  Applicant,  this 
non-inferiority margin provided assurance that  both  absolute efficacy and efficacy relative to the active 
comparator aflibercept could be established and any proof of non-inferiority only occurred if the observed 
treatment differences were of no clinical relevance. The CHMP considers that this non-inferiority margin 
of  4  is  too  broad and  therefore not  acceptable. Such  concern is  however resolved by  the  results  (see 
below). 
Interim analyses 
The  analysis based on  the  Week 52  data (analysis  included  in  this  report)  is  the  primary efficacy and 
safety analysis for both studies. The databases include all data up to Week 52 from when all randomized 
subjects have completed the  Week 52 visit or terminated the study prior to  (or at) Week 52.  
Additional sample size considerations for evaluation of DRSS data across Studies B2301  and B2302 
The evaluation of DRSS data in each study was not powered for non-inferiority testing, therefore pooling 
of  DRSS  data  from  the  two  studies  (brolucizumab  6  mg,  aflibercept  2  mg)  was  needed  to  provide 
sufficient  power to  robustly  assess non-inferiority  as per pre-defined analysis. In  particular, data  from 
these  studies  were  pooled  to  support  overall  conclusions  regarding  the  non-inferior  efficacy  of 
brolucizumab 6 mg in DR in subjects with DME compared to aflibercept, in terms of ≥ 2-step improvement 
in DRSS at Week 52, using a 10%  non-inferiority margin on the  difference in the proportion of subjects 
achieving ≥ 2-step improvement in DRSS at Week 52 between brolucizumab 6 mg and aflibercept 2 mg. 
With  this approach, and assuming that 30%  of subjects achieve ≥ 2-step improvement in DRSS at Week 
52 in both  treatment groups, a sample size of 356  subjects in  each group provides 82% power for non-
inferiority testing. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 19/125 
 
 
 
Randomisation 
Study B2301: 
At  baseline  visit,  all  eligible  subjects  were  randomized  via  IRT  to  one  of  the  three  treatment  arms 
(brolucizumab  3  mg,  brolucizumab  6  mg  and  aflibercept  2  mg),  in  a  ratio  of  1:1:1.  Stratification  for 
Japanese ethnicity (Japanese vs. non-Japanese) was performed. 
Study B2302: 
At  baseline  visit,  all  eligible  subjects  were  randomized  via  IRT  to  one  of  the  two  treatment  arms 
(brolucizumab 6 mg and aflibercept 2 mg), in a ratio of 1:1. Stratification for systemic exposure sampling 
was performed. 
In the 2016 Scientific Advice (EMA/CHMP/SAWP/104791/2016),  the Applicant was advised to consider a 
stratification  of  the  randomisation  by  HbA1c  level.  This  recommendation  was  not  followed  for  either 
studies  as the  only stratification  factor is  for Japanese vs non-Japanese (B2301)  or systemic exposure 
sampling (B2302). 
Therefore, the impact  of any imbalance of HbA1c levels at  baseline should be considered as well as the 
consistency of subgroup analyses by baseline HbA1c. 
Blinding (masking) 
Since the treatment schedule was different between the brolucizumab and aflibercept arms, the following  
procedures were applied to  ensure  double-masking and  limit  bias  in  the  conduct  and  interpretation  of 
each study: 
In addition to every 4-week visits for all subjects for 2 years, extra visits were scheduled at Weeks 6 and 
18 for each treatment arm. 
•  Active/sham injections at  each protocol visit to establish an identical  treatment schedule across 
treatment arms, except at Weeks 20,  28 and 100 visits (no scheduled treatment  for any arm). 
• 
To fulfil  the  double-masking requirement, each investigational  site  had masked and unmasked 
staff.  The  investigator  who  performed the  injection  was  unmasked to  the  treatments  as  were 
any  other  site  personnel  who  had  been  delegated  responsibility  for  working  with  the  IP.  The 
unmasked site personnel and unmasked injecting investigator  did not  perform BCVA, complete 
ophthalmic  examination  (with  the  exception  of  post-  injection  safety  assessment),  DAAs  or 
administer the VFQ-25. Also, the unmasked site personnel and unmasked injecting physician did 
not  perform assessment of  any ocular  or non-ocular  safety parameters, or assess causality  of 
AEs for subjects during  the course of the  study except an event reported immediately following 
IVT  injection.  Once  the  designated  roles  were  determined,  the  unmasked  investigator/site 
personnel roles were not  switched at  any time after randomization to masked role. Every effort 
was  made  to  limit  the  number  of  unmasked  study  personnel  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  this  
masked study. 
• 
The  unmasked  investigator/site  personnel  assessed  subject  safety  immediately  following 
injection. 
•  Unmasked monitors and unmasked global clinical team members were available to perform study 
medication accountability  and to  deal with  study issues involving the  unmasked investigator or 
unmasked site staff. Remaining members of the Sponsor Study team were masked to treatment 
assignments  until  all  randomized  subjects  completed  the  primary  endpoint  evaluation  at  the 
Week 52 visit (or terminated the study prior to or at Week 52). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 20/125 
 
 
 
•  An independent, masked review of fundus photography, fluorescein angiography and OCT images 
for subjects enrolled in the study was performed at a CRC. 
•  DAA was performed for each treatment arm by the masked investigator at the protocol specified 
visits. 
• 
Treatment  masking  will  remain  intact  for  all  subjects,  masked investigators  and  masked site  
personnel until  the end of the study, except in  the case of subject emergencies. 
The  use  of  sham  injections  at  each  protocol  visit  to  establish  an  identical  treatment  schedule  across 
treatment  arms  is  appropriate.  The  above  double-masking  process and  associated  requirements  are 
deemed appropriate. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis populations (both  studies B2301 and B2302) 
The following analysis sets were defined: 
•  All enrolled set: included all subjects who signed informed consent. 
•  Randomized  set:  included  all  randomized  subjects.  Subjects  were  analysed  according  to  the 
treatment assigned to at randomization. 
• 
• 
Full  analysis set (FAS): included all randomized subjects who received at least one IVT injection 
of  the  study  treatment.  Subjects  were  analysed  according  to  the  treatment  assigned  to  at 
randomization. 
Per-protocol  set  (PPS):  subset  of  the  FAS  that  excluded  subjects  with  important  protocol 
deviations  and  analysis  restrictions  that  were  expected  to  majorly  affect  the  validity  of  the  
assessment  of  efficacy and/or  safety  at  Week  52  (e.g.  lack  of  compliance  [including  missed 
treatments  and treatment  misallocation], missing  data, prohibited  concomitant medication  and 
deviations  from  inclusion/exclusion  criteria).  Confounded  data  or  discontinuation  from  study  
treatment due to lack of efficacy and/or safety did not constitute  a reason for exclusion from the 
PPS. 
•  Safety  set  (SAF):  included  all  subjects  who  received  at  least  one  study  drug  IVT  injection. 
Subjects  in  the  SAF  were analysed  according to  the  treatment  arm from  which  they  received 
majority of treatments up to  and including  Week 48. 
Multiplicity  adjustment 
The multiplicity  adjustment procedures differ between study B2301 and study B2302. 
Study B2301 
The objective related to the primary and first key secondary endpoints was to demonstrate non-inferiority 
of brolucizumab to aflibercept with  respect to change from baseline in BCVA, considering a margin of 4 
ETDRS letters. 
Let: 
B6 = Brolucizumab 6 mg - 5 x q6w loading then q12w/q8w  maintenance 
B3 = Brolucizumab 3 mg - 5 x q6w loading then q12w/q8w  maintenance 
A = Aflibercept 2 mg - 5 x q4w loading then q8w  maintenance 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 21/125 
 
 
 
The following non-inferiority hypotheses were used in the  analysis and were related to a non-inferiority 
margin of 4  letters: 
H01:  μB6 – μA ≤ -4 letters vs. HA1: μB6 – μA > -4 letters 
H02:  φB6 – φA ≤ -4 letters vs. HA2: φB6 – φA > -4  letters 
H03:  μB3 – μA ≤ -4 letters vs. HA3: μB3 – μA > -4 letters 
H04:  φB3 – φA ≤ -4 letters vs. HA4: φB3 – φA > -4  letters 
BCVA at Week 52 in the brolucizumab 6 mg, brolucizumab 3 mg and aflibercept 2 mg arms, respectively; 
φB6, φB3 and φA were the corresponding unknown true mean changes from baseline in BCVA averaged 
over the period Week 40 to Week 52 in the brolucizumab 6 mg, brolucizumab 3 mg and aflibercept 2 mg 
arms, respectively. 
Two-sided  95%  CI  for  the  LS  mean  difference (brolucizumab -  aflibercept)  were  presented  in  letters. 
Non-inferiority  was  considered established  if  the  lower  limit  of  the  corresponding 95%  CI  was greater 
than  -4  letters.  P-value for treatment  comparison (two-sided)  and  p-value for  non-inferiority  (4  letter 
margin) (one-sided) were presented. 
These four alternative hypotheses were tested  sequentially in the  order of their  numbering (HAn,  n=1, 
2,  3,  4),  i.e., confirmatory testing  of  the  second, third  or fourth  hypotheses required rejection of each 
preceding null hypothesis. In this setting, each hypothesis was assessed at a one-sided significance level 
of 0.025, while  keeping the global type I error rate at 0.025. 
No hypothesis was to be tested  for the additional key secondary efficacy endpoints. 
However, superiority testing  of hypotheses for additional  secondary endpoints was to  be performed on 
the  condition  that  proof  of  non-inferiority  related  to  BCVA  was  successful  for  the  four  non-inferiority 
hypotheses (H1  to H4)  specified for the primary and first key secondary endpoints. 
The additional efficacy hypotheses are linked to the below endpoints: 
•  H5.  Average change  from  baseline  in  CSFT  over  the  period  Week  40  through  Week  52  in  the 
study eye 
•  H6.  Absence of fluid  in the study eye at Week 52 (no=absence of SRF and IRF) 
•  H7.  Change from baseline in CSFT at Week 4 in  the study eye 
•  H8.  Average change  from baseline  in  BCVA over the  period  Week  40  through  Week  52  in  the 
study eye. 
All  tests  were  one-sided  tests  for  superiority  of  brolucizumab  6  mg  vs.  aflibercept  2  mg  only  (not 
brolucizumab 3  mg vs. aflibercept 2  mg). 
The  primary  and  relevant  secondary efficacy endpoints  were  to  be  assessed using  a  multiple  testing 
procedure resulting from the graphical approach of Bretz et al (Bretz et al 2009) with  an initial one-sided 
significance level of 0.025. The family-wise type I error rate was controlled at the one-sided 2.5% level 
across the tested null hypotheses using the closed testing procedure implemented through the graphical 
method as specified in the figure below. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 22/125 
 
 
 
The first four hypotheses were to  be tested sequentially in the  order of their numbering (Hn, n=1,  2, 3, 
4),  i.e.,  confirmatory  testing  of  the  second,  third  or  fourth  hypotheses  requires  rejection  of  each 
preceding null  hypothesis. 
If each of the first four null hypotheses was rejected at a one-sided significance level of 0.025, the entire 
alpha was to be distributed  between the null hypotheses related to the superiority testing of H5 (90% of 
0.025  =  0.0225),  and  H6  (10%  of  0.025  =  0.0025).  This  split  was  chosen  by  balancing  out  prior 
expectations about  the study outcomes and the clinical importance of the  endpoints. 
The multiplicity  adjustment  procedure used for the  study  itself  is in  principle deemed appropriate. The 
additional  superiority hypotheses based on  secondary  endpoints  (H5  to  H8  for  study  B2301,  H3  to  H5 
for study B2302) were introduced with a SAP amendment. Because of the late timing of the change, and 
considering  the  complexity  of  the  masking  process, this  could  have  raised a  potential  issue  of  type  I 
error inflation. However, it is acknowledged that no hypotheses were rejected beyond H2 in study B2301. 
In  study  B2302,  no  hypotheses  were  rejected  beyond  H3  (CSFT),  and  the  significance  of  the  CSFT 
endpoint was not replicated in Study B2301. Therefore this raises no concerns. 
Study B2302 
The objective related to the primary and first key secondary endpoints was to demonstrate noninferiority 
of brolucizumab to  aflibercept with  respect to  the  change from baseline in  BCVA, considering a margin 
of 4 ETDRS letters. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 23/125 
 
 
 
 
Let: 
B = Brolucizumab 6 mg - 5 x q6w loading then q12w/q8w  maintenance 
A = Aflibercept 2 mg - 5 x q4w loading then q8w  maintenance 
The following  non-inferiority hypotheses were used in  the  analysis and  were related to  a noninferiority 
margin of 4  letters: 
H01:  μB – μA ≤ -4 letters vs. HA1: μB – μA > -4  letters 
H02:  φB – φA ≤ -4 letters vs. HA2: φB – φA > -4  letters 
where μB and μA were the  corresponding unknown  true mean changes from baseline in  BCVA at Week 
52 in the brolucizumab and aflibercept arms, respectively; φB and φA were the corresponding unknown 
true  mean  changes  from  baseline  in  BCVA  averaged  over  the  period  Week  40  to  Week  52  in  the 
brolucizumab and aflibercept arms, respectively. 
Non-inferiority  was  considered established  if  the  lower  limit  of  the  corresponding 95%  CI  was greater 
than  -4  letters.  P-value for treatment  comparison (two-sided)  and  p-value for  non-inferiority  (4-letter 
margin) (one-sided) were presented.  
These two  alternative hypotheses were tested sequentially in  the  order of their  numbering  (HAn,  n=1, 
2),  i.e., confirmatory testing  of the second hypothesis required rejection of  the first  null  hypothesis. In 
this  setting, each hypothesis was assessed at a one-sided significance level of 0.025, while keeping the 
global type I error rate at 0.025. 
No hypothesis was to be tested  for the additional key secondary efficacy endpoints. 
However,  superiority  testing  of  hypotheses for  additional  secondary endpoints  was  performed on  the  
condition  that  proof of  non-inferiority related  to  BCVA was  successful for  the  two  hypotheses  (H1  and 
H2)  for the primary and first key secondary endpoints. 
The additional efficacy hypotheses are linked to the below endpoints: 
• 
H3.  Average change  from  baseline  in  CSFT  over  the  period  Week  40  through  Week  52  in  the 
study eye 
• 
H4.  Average change  from baseline  in  BCVA over the  period  Week  40  through  Week  52  in  the 
study eye 
• 
H5.  Fluid-status  ‘yes/no’ in the  study eye at Week 52 (no= absence of SRF and IRF). 
All tests were one-sided tests for superiority of brolucizumab vs. aflibercept. 
The  alternative  hypotheses were  to  be  tested  hierarchically in  the  order  H3,  then  H4,  then  H5,  i.e., 
confirmatory testing of the hypothesis required rejection of the previous null hypothesis. In this setting, 
each hypothesis was assessed at a one-sided significance level of 0.025, while keeping the  global type I 
error rate at 0.025. 
Primary and first key secondary analyses (both studies B2301  and B2302) 
The primary endpoint is the change from baseline in BCVA at Week 52  in the  study eye (ETDRS letters). 
The first key secondary endpoint is the average change from baseline in  BCVA over the period Week 40 
through  Week  52  in  the  study  eye. For  each  subject,  this  endpoint  is  defined  as  the  average of  the 
changes from baseline to Weeks 40,  44, 48 and 52. 
The primary analysis of  the  primary and first  key secondary endpoints was  based on  the  FAS  with  last 
observation carried forward (LOCF)  imputation  of missing or censored BCVA values. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 24/125 
 
 
 
The primary estimand for the primary endpoint  included the following components: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Population: Subjects with visual impairment due to DME as per the inclusion/exclusion criteria 
Endpoint:  The primary endpoint is the change from baseline in BCVA at Week 52. 
Treatment of interest: The randomized study treatment (brolucizumab or aflibercept) 
The handling of the remaining intercurrent events as follows: 
o  Study discontinuation  due to  any reason: data imputed with  LOCF 
o  Treatment discontinuation due to any reason: use all the data 
o  Data after the start  of alternative DME treatment will  be censored 
•  Summary  measure:  Difference  in  the  change  from  baseline  in  BCVA  at  Week  52  between 
brolucizumab and aflibercept treatment arms. 
The primary estimand for the first key secondary endpoint had similar components. 
It is  noted that  both  the primary estimand on the  FAS and the supplemental  estimand on the  PPS (see 
below)  include  a  mix  of  treatment  policy  strategies  and  hypothetical  strategies  depending  on  the 
intercurrent event (ICE) considered. In order to further aid the interpretation of the results, the Applicant 
was requested to perform supplementary analyses based on the  following estimands: 
-  Additional  estimand  A:  A  treatment  policy  is  followed  for  all  ICEs,  i.e.  all  data  are  included  in  the 
analysis regardless of ICEs. This  estimand will  be aimed at  more closely following the  ITT principle and 
corresponding analyses should be performed on the FAS. 
-  Additional  estimand B:  A hypothetical  strategy is  followed for all  ICEs (i.e.  for  study  discontinuation, 
treatment  discontinuation,  start  of  alternative  DME  treatment,  start  of  prohibited  medications  or 
procedures). 
Furthermore it  was requested that  the frequency and timing of each ICE were summarised by treatment 
group. 
Other secondary analyses (both studies B2301 and B2302) 
Continuous endpoints: 
The continuous secondary endpoints related to BCVA and CSFT was analysed using ANOVA models. The 
estimates  of least  square means for each treatment  and  for the  treatment  differences brolucizumab  – 
aflibercept, including  95% CIs for the treatment  differences, were presented. 
For the  ANOVA analysis of BCVA-related endpoints, baseline BCVA (≤65, >65 letters)  and age category 
(<65,  ≥65  years) were considered as  class variables. For  the  ANOVA analysis of  CSFT,  baseline  CSFT 
(<450,  ≥450-<650,  ≥650 μm) were used instead of baseline BCVA as a class variable. 
Categorical variables: 
For binary endpoints, frequency tables (count and percentage) were provided by time point. In addition, 
proportions and treatment  differences in proportions along with  95%  CIs were presented for each time  
point  using  a logistic  regression with  treatment,  the  corresponding baseline status  (similar to  the  ones 
specified for the ANOVA models) and age categories as fixed effects. 
Time-to event variables: 
Time-to-event variables such as the time to achieve gain in BCVA of ≥5 (respectively ≥10 and ≥15) letters  
from baseline  (or reaching a  score of  84  or more) were  analysed using  KM  analysis. KM  estimates  on 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 25/125 
 
 
 
percent of subjects who  achieve gain,  together with  95%  CI were presented by visit.  The median time  
(95%  CI)  to  gain  was  also  constructed  by  treatment  arm.  KM  curves  presenting  the  cumulative 
probability of subjects with  gain of ≥5 (respectively ≥10 and ≥15) letters from baseline were provided by 
treatment arm. 
Proportions of subjects maintained at q12w up to  week 52: 
The estimate for the proportion of subjects maintained at q12w up to week 52 was derived from Kaplan-
Meier time-to-event  analyses for the event ‘first  q8w-need’, applying a ‘q8w-need’  allocation in case of 
missing or confounded data attributable  to lack of efficacy and/or lack of safety. 
Supplementary analysis (both  studies B2301 and B2302) 
Supplementary estimand on the PPS: 
The target population, the primary endpoint, the treatment of interest and the summary measure of the 
supplementary estimand  were the  same as  for  the  primary estimand.  In  addition  to  the  censoring  of 
data  after  a  switch  to  alternative  DME  treatment  (described for  the  primary estimand),  the  estimand 
based on  the  PPS censored data  after  prohibited  medications or  procedures. Imputation  used  the  last 
observation collected before the corresponding intercurrent event (ICE). 
The supportive analysis on  the  supplementary estimand  applied the  same LOCF/ANOVA method  as for 
the primary estimand.  
Sensitivity analyses of the primary endpoint  (both studies B2301 and B2302) 
Mixed  model for repeated measures (MMRM)  assuming  missing  at random  (MAR) using  observed data 
only  (including  censoring of  BCVA  values collected  after  the  start  of  alternative DME  treatment).  The 
MMRM  included treatment, visit, baseline BCVA category, age category and treatment by visit interaction 
as fixed-effect terms, and  visit as a repeated measure. An unstructured covariance matrix was used to 
model  the  within-subject  error.  In  this  analysis,  data  collected  after  the  switch  to  alternative  DME 
treatment in the  study eye was censored.  
As the analyses presented all assumed data missing at random, but a missing-not-at-random mechanism 
is  also clinically credible in  this  setting,  the  Applicant  was requested to  perform tipping  point  analyses 
exploring more  conservative scenarios for missing  data  in  the  brolucizumab arm  for primary  and  first 
key secondary endpoints, and to comment on the results. These analyses were repeated based on above 
estimands  A  and  B.  The  tipping  point  analyses  (see  results  below)  indicated  that  a  relatively  large 
negative shift  would be required for the non-hypothesis to be accepted for the primary endpoint. Based 
on these results, the  impact of MNAR data  on the efficacy results should be limited  and is not expected 
to impact the study conclusions 
Subgroup analyses (both studies B2301 and B2302) 
The subgroups of interest are specified below: 
•  Age category (<65,  ≥65 years) 
•  Gender (male, female) 
•  Diabetes type (Type 1, Type 2) 
•  Baseline HbA1c (<7.5,  ≥7.5%) 
•  Baseline BCVA categories (≤65, >65 letters) 
•  Duration of DME since the  primary diagnosis (≤3, >3-<12,  ≥12 months) 
•  DME type (focal, diffuse) as per CRC 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 26/125 
 
 
 
•  Baseline CSFT (<450,  ≥450-<650,  ≥650 μm) 
•  Baseline status of IRF (presence, absence) 
•  Baseline status of SRF (presence, absence) 
• 
Ethnicity  (Japan, non-Japan). 
Subgroup analyses were performed for the primary and key secondary efficacy variables only. 
Changes in  planned analyses 
Study B2301 
The protocol was amended 3 times. Changes with a relevant impact on statistical methods are included 
below. 
Protocol amendment 
Changes to  statistical methods 
V02 11-Feb-2020 
Purpose and timing  of interim analyses/design adaptations were updated for 
the primary analysis to  be conducted when first 534  randomised subjects 
have completed their Week 52 visit or terminated study prior to  Week 52 
Clarification regarding analysis of Japanese subjects 
Clarification regarding treatment masking 
V03 12-Jun-2020 
Modifications to  align with ICH E9  (R1) guideline 
Changes to  account for COVID-19 impact 
Endpoints  moved from secondary to exploratory 
Changes introduced in the  SAP: 
The main  change introduced  in  the SAP was  included as  part of  SAP amendment  V1.0  (dated  26-Nov-
2020),  which  introduced  hypotheses  testing  in  relation  to  additional  secondary  endpoints.  Indeed, 
hypotheses H5  to  H8  described in  the  above multiplicity  adjustment  section were not  part  of the  fixed 
sequence testing procedure described in the protocol. The amendment also added analyses to cover the 
potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and was finalized prior to database lock. 
In addition, the SAP amendment reflected the change in the timing of the analyses, which occurred when 
all  subjects  had  completed  the  Week  52  visit  instead  of  after  the  first  534  randomized subjects  had 
completed the Week 52 visit. 
Study B2302 
The  protocol was  amended twice.  Changes with  a  relevant impact  on  statistical  methods  are  included 
below. 
Protocol amendment 
Changes to  statistical methods 
V01 18-May-2018 
Added  clarification  on  the  framework  of  analysis  on  study  information 
collected from withdrawn  subjects 
The PK of aflibercept was removed from testing  and analysis 
V02 11-Jun-2020 
Modifications to  align with ICH E9  (R1) guideline 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 27/125 
 
 
 
 
Changes to  account for COVID-19 impact 
Endpoints  moved from secondary to exploratory 
Clarification regarding treatment masking 
Changes introduced in the  SAP: 
The main  change introduced  in  the SAP was  included as  part of  SAP amendment  V1.1  (dated  17-Aug-
2020),  which  introduced  hypotheses  testing  in  relation  to  additional  secondary  endpoints.  Indeed, 
hypotheses H3  to  H5  described in  the  above multiplicity  adjustment  section were not  part  of the  fixed 
sequence testing procedure described in the protocol. The amendment also added analyses to cover the 
potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and was finalized prior to database lock. 
Pooled analysis across studies B2301  and B2302 
For the purpose of assessing the potential benefit of treatment with  brolucizumab 6 mg in a larger group 
of subjects with  DME on the underlying DR, pooled data (E-db)  from Study B2301  and Study B2302 for 
the secondary endpoint related to ≥2-step improvement from baseline in DRSS at Week 52 was analysed. 
The multiple  testing  procedure followed  the  approach described in  Bretz et  al  (2019),  as  shown  in  the 
figure below, and  was pre-specified in  the analysis plan for the  SCE and finalised prior to  the database 
lock of Study B2301 and Study B2302.  
Figure: Multiple  testing  procedure (DR in subjects with  DME) 
The primary and first key secondary hypotheses related to the primary and first key secondary endpoints, 
change from baseline in  BCVA at  Week 52  (H1  and H1’)  and  averaged change in  BCVA over the  period 
Week 40 to  Week 52 (H2  and H2’), respectively, were tested in  hierarchical order within  each study. 
To ensure evidence of independent substantiation  and replication, only if both studies B3201 and B2302 
independently rejected the  null  hypothesis for  the primary endpoint  in  a  one-sided  statistical  test  with 
p-value ≤0.025  (H1 and H1’),  would the DRSS endpoint, ≥2-step improvement from baseline in  DRSS at 
Week 52,  be assessed for non-inferiority compared to aflibercept 2  mg using  the  pooled data of  Study 
B2301  and Study  B2302,  and a  10%  non-inferiority margin on  the  difference in  proportion of  subjects 
achieving  ≥2-step  improvement  from  baseline  in  DRSS at  Week 52  between  brolucizumab  6  mg  and 
aflibercept 2 mg. More precisely, following Bretz et al (2019), non-inferiority in the DRSS endpoint could 
be established through a one-sided statistical test with  a p-value ≤0.024375 (=0.025-0.0252).  According 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 28/125 
 
 
 
 
 
to the Applicant, the subtraction  of α2 is required to allow for independent testing of the DRSS outcome 
from the outcomes of the  first key secondary endpoint in the  testing  strategy for the individual studies, 
change from baseline in BCVA averaged over Week 40 to Week 52  (H2 & H2’). 
The Applicant  provides the  following  justification for  this approach: at  the  study level, the  Type I  error 
rate  was  controlled  at  the  level  0.025  (one-sided),  whereas  at  the  submission  level,  the  approach 
implemented ensured that  the  Type I error rate was controlled at the level 0.0252  (α2) for the primary 
hypotheses following  the  replication  principle,  and  at  ≤0.025  when  considering all  endpoints  under  all 
possible configurations of true and false null hypotheses, including that pertaining to the DRSS endpoint. 
The analysis of difference in proportions between brolucizumab and aflibercept treatment groups used a 
logistic regression with treatment, the corresponding baseline DRSS (12-level scale ≤4, ≥5), age category 
(<65,  ≥65 years) and study (B2301,  B2302) as fixed effects. 
The one-sided non-inferiority p-value and 95% CI for the  difference will be calculated using bootstrap. 
Each  study  has  its  own  multiple  testing  procedure  according  to  the  graphical  approach  described 
previously. These study-specific  multiple  testing  procedures do  not  include  the  DRSS  endpoint  at  any 
step in the process. 
Instead, the DRSS endpoint (≥2-step improvement from baseline in DRSS at Week 52) is tested outside 
of the study-specific testing  procedures, using pooled data from Study B2301 and B2302. This is a non-
inferiority test  for the comparison of brolucizumab 6mg vs aflibercept 2 mg, using a 10% non-inferiority 
margin. The  pooled non-inferiority test  is only  performed if  both  studies B3201  and  B2302 reject  their 
primary null hypothesis.  
This three branch procedure, described by Bretz et al (2019), was specified in the SCE analysis plan prior 
to  each  study  database  lock.  It  is  acknowledged that  some  considerations  of  type  I  error  control  at 
different  levels  can  be  derived  from  this  approach.  Each  study  has  its  own  type  I  error  control 
corresponding to  the  study-specific  testing  procedure, which  does not  include  DRSS. A  control  of  the  
type  I  error  at  “submission  level”  and  across secondary  endpoints  is  introduced  with  this  approach. 
However this  is deemed questionable. First,  it is noted that the 2.5%  one-sided type I error control that 
is  claimed  across secondary endpoints  (at  submission  level)  implies  that  any  test  performed  at  study 
level  requires  replication  across  both  studies  to  reject  any  hypothesis.  Therefore,  and  as  would  be 
generally expected, any finding that  is not replicated across both  pivotal trials should be removed from 
the SmPC. More importantly, this submission-level type I error control is not relevant to the study family 
wise error control. As a consequence, it is challenging to draw any meaningful conclusions regarding the 
control of the type I error within  or across studies. 
As noted by the Applicant, the same approach was followed for another product from the same Applicant 
in multiple  sclerosis   . BSWP advice had been sought  on the issue. Despite the  testing procedure being 
considered dubious  (for  the  above reasons), the  issue  was  not  pursued  and  the  pooled  analysis  was 
accepted for assessment with  the following recommendation: “Careful interpretation of results based on 
achieved significance levels and  clinical  relevance by CHMP  is  warranted.” The  same advice applies  to 
the present procedure. 
The proportion of patients for which the DRSS endpoint was imputed due to missing or censored data is 
unclear. The Applicant was requested to clarify the proportion of imputed values by treatment group and 
by reason for imputation  (i.e. missing, censored following start of DME treatment). A sensitivity analysis 
was  provided  where  missing/censored  values  were  counted  as  failures  (non-improvement).  The 
sensitivity analyses with missing/censored values imputed as failures showed lower improvements rates 
in both  treatment arms, with  a treatment difference that  remained consistent with  the CSR results. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 29/125 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
B2301 Study 
Of  a  total  of  873  subjects  who  were  screened, 566  subjects  were randomized in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to  the  
brolucizumab 6  mg (n=189)  or 3  mg  (n=190)  arms, or  to  the aflibercept 2  mg  arm  (n=187)  between 
30-Jul-2018  and 14-Nov-2019,  and 307  subjects were not randomized due to screen failures. 
Overall, 25 subjects (13.2%)  in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm, 23 subjects (12.1%) in the brolucizumab 3 
mg arm, and 18 subjects (9.6%) in the aflibercept 2 mg arm discontinued study treatment prior to or at 
Week 52; of these subjects who discontinued study treatment, 7 subjects in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm, 
4  subjects in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  arm and  3 subjects  in  the  aflibercept 2  mg  arm remained  in  the 
study up to Week 52  after being discontinued from treatment 
A total  of 18  subjects (9.5%)  in the  brolucizumab 6 mg  arm, 19 subjects (10.0%)  in the  brolucizumab 
3 mg arm and 15 subjects (8.0%) in the aflibercept 2 mg arm discontinued the study prior to or at Week 
52.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 30/125 
 
 
 
Table 1: Subject disposition of the study B2301 up to  Week 52 (All Enrolled Set) 
B2302 Study 
Of  a  total  of  480  subjects  who  were  screened,  360  subjects  were  randomized  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  
brolucizumab 6  mg  arm  (n=179)  or  aflibercept  2  mg  arm  (n=181)  between  10-Aug-2018  and  02-Jul-
2019,  and 120  subjects were not randomized due to screen failures. 
Overall, 19  subjects  (10.6%)  in  the  brolucizumab arm  and  15  subjects  (8.3%)  in  the  aflibercept arm 
discontinued  the  study  treatment;  out  of  these,  2  subjects  (1.1%)  in  the  brolucizumab  arm  and  3 
subjects  (1.6%)  in  the  aflibercept  arm remained in  the  study  up  to  Week 52  after  being discontinued 
from treatment. 
A  total  of  17  subjects (9.5%)  in  the  brolucizumab  arm and  12  subjects  (6.6%)  in  the  aflibercept arm 
discontinued the study prior to or at Week 52. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 31/125 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Subject disposition of the study B2302 up to  Week 52 (All Enrolled Set) 
Overall,  the  participant  flow  does  not  raise  concerns.  The  proportion  of  subject’s  discontinuation  is 
acceptable and it remains well balanced across the groups. 
Recruitment 
B2301 Study 
The first subject for this  study was screened on 30-Jul-2018  and the last  subject on 14-Nov-2019. 
B2302 Study 
The first subject for this  study was screened on 10-Aug-2018  and the last subject on 02-Jul-2019. 
Conduct of the study 
B2301 Study 
The study protocol was amended 3 times.  Main changes were: 
  ●  Changes in  relation to  emerging safety issue are: 
-  Information was added to describe a new safety signal from post-marketing case reports. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 32/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Additional guidance was added emphasizing that if any sign of intraocular inflammation is present, 
an IVT injection must not be performed and subjects should be treated for intraocular inflammation 
according  to  clinical  practice.  Additional  examination  and  assessments  included  to  fully 
characterize cases of intraocular inflammation were made. 
-  Changes were incorporated to address the COVID- 19 pandemic. 
  ●  Three endpoints were moved from Secondary to Exploratory. 
  ●  Purpose and timing  of interim  analyses/design adaptations  were updated  for the  primary analysis 
to  be  conducted  when  the  first  534  randomized  subjects  have  completed  their Week  52  visit  or 
terminated the study prior to Week 52. 
  ●  Clarification  that  data  for the  additional  subjects  randomized in  Japan beyond the  study  target  of 
534  subjects  was  to  be  analyzed  once  these  subjects  had  completed  their  Week  52  visit  or 
terminated the study prior to Week 52. 
  ●  Details  were added  regarding  the  primary  Week 52  analysis and  additional  analyses to  allow  for 
consistency assessment of data between Japanese and non-Japanese subjects. 
  ●  Inclusion  criterion  no.  5  was  revised to  allow  enrollment  of  subjects  with  central  subfield  retinal 
thickness cut-off value on SD-OCT of ≥320 μm  instead of ≥340  μm. 
  ●  The  assessment schedule  table  was corrected  according to  protocol  body  text  and  adjustment  of 
appearance for clarity. 
B2302 Study 
The study protocol was amended twice.  Main changes were: 
  ●  Changes in  relation to  emerging safety issue are: 
-  Information was added to describe a new safety signal from post-marketing case reports. 
-  Additional  guidance  was  added  emphasizing  that  if  any  sign  of  intraocular  inflammation  is 
present,  an  IVT  injection  must  not  be  performed  and  subjects  should  be  treated  for  intraocular 
inflammation according to clinical practice. Additional examination and assessments included to fully 
characterize cases of intraocular inflammation were made. 
-  Changes were incorporated to address the COVID- 19 pandemic. 
  ●  Three endpoints were moved from Secondary to Exploratory. 
  ●  Inclusion  criterion  no.  5  was  revised to  allow  enrollment  of  subjects  with  central  subfield  retinal 
thickness cut-off value on SD-OCT of ≥320 μm  instead of ≥340  μm. 
  ●  The  assessment schedule  table  was corrected  according to  protocol  body  text  and  adjustment  of 
appearance for clarity. 
The conduct  of the study  is thus  considered acceptable. No  major concern may question  the  validity of 
the  study. However, the Applicant  was asked to further  comment the impact  of the revision of the 
inclusion criterion number 5  on central subfield retinal thickness (i.e.  cut-off value on SD-OCT of ≥
320  μm  instead  of  ≥340  μm)  on  the  efficacy  results.  The  Applicant  has  provided  a  sensitivity 
analysis was performed for KESTREL and KITE on the subset of subjects with CSFT ≥340 µm. Results 
does  not  suggest  that  increased the  cut-off  from 320  to  340  µm  had  a  significant  impact  on  the 
results. Additionally, it  is acknowledged that a 340  µm threshold makes the study population  more 
representative of the  real life.   
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 33/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 3: Demographic characteristics – Study B2301 and Study B2302 (FAS) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 34/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Diabetes characteristics at baseline – Study B2301 and Study B2302 (FAS) 
Table 5: Baseline ocular characteristics for the  study eye – Study B2301 and Study B2302 (FAS) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 35/125 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 36/125 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no concerns about the balance of the demographics. 
Regarding diabetes condition, the overall proportion of patients with type I diabetes remains very limited, 
4.9 %  in B2301  study  and 7.2%  B2302 study.  As indicated  by The  Applicant, the  proportion  of Type I 
diabetes in  KESTREL and KITE studies is consistent  with the  other anti-VEGF  studies in DME population, 
which can be accepted. No discrepancies were observed in subgroup analysis 
Overall, disease characteristics were well balanced among groups. However, we can observe a significant 
imbalance in  the  proportion of  patients  with  a  BCVA superior to  65  letters  across groups  in  the  B2302 
study. The proportion was numerically higher in the brolucizumab group, 63.7%, than in the aflibercept 
group, 49.7%.  Subpopulation analysis will  be  thus  of importance to  observe if  results are not  drive by 
this imbalance. The mean BCVA at baseline was 65.9 letters and 64.9 letters respectively in B2301 study  
and B2302 study. 
Mean  CSFT was 461.5  µm and  482.7  µm  respectively in B2301  study  and B2302  study  with  no  critical 
discrepancies between  arms. Macular  Edema Type was  mostly diffuse (69.8%  and  63.5%  respectively 
in B2301 study and B2302 study) and well balanced. Presence of intraretinal and presence of subretinal 
fluid were also balanced across study groups. 
The time since diagnosis of DME was well balanced among groups, large majority of the patients having 
a diagnosis inferior to 3 months.  
As  clarified  by  the  Applicant  during  the  procedure,  there  have  been  only  treatment-naïve  subjects 
enrolled in  KESTREL and  KITE, i.e.  subjects  previously treated  with  anti-VEGF  drugs or  investigational 
drugs in the study eye were excluded.  
Numbers analysed 
B2301 Study 
The  proportion  of  subjects  included  in  each  analysis set  by  treatment  arm  is  presented in  the  below 
table. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 37/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Analysis sets (Randomized Set) 
B2302 Study 
The  proportion  of  subjects  included  in  each  analysis set  by  treatment  arm  is  presented in  the  below 
table. 
Table 7: Analysis sets (Randomized Set) 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
• Change  from baseline in BCVA  at Week  52 
Both  Study  B2301  and  Study  B2302  met  the  primary  objective  and  confirmed  the  non-inferiority  of 
brolucizumab 6  mg to  aflibercept 2  mg for  the  primary endpoint,  BCVA change from Baseline at Week 
52 in the study eye, with a non-inferiority margin of 4 letters (p<0.001).  The non-inferiority was not met 
for brolucizumab 3 mg. 
In B2301,  the  LS  mean estimate  of change from baseline in  BCVA at Week 52  was  +9.2  letters  in  the 
brolucizumab  6  mg  arm  and  +10.5  letters  in  the  aflibercept  2  mg  arm,  with  an  LS  mean  difference 
between brolucizumab and aflibercept of -1.3  letters for brolucizumab 3 mg (95% CI: [-2.9,  0.3]). 
In B2302,  the LS mean estimate of change from baseline in  BCVA at  Week 52 was  +10.6  letters in the  
brolucizumab  arm  and  +9.4  letters  in  the  aflibercept  arm,  with  a  LS  mean  difference  between 
brolucizumab and aflibercept of 1.2  letters for brolucizumab (95% CI: [-0.6,  3.1]). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 38/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Best Corrected Visual Acuity (letters read): ANOVA results for change from baseline at Week 
52 for the study eye (Full  Analysis Set – LOCF) 
Sensitivity analysis 
The change from baseline in BCVA at Week 52 for the study eye was analyzed using the FAS and a MMR M 
assuming missing at random and using observed data only to assess robustness of the hypothesis testing  
results. This  analysis replaced the  LOCF  method for imputation/replacement of missing/censored BCVA 
data,  which assumes no change after the  start  of monotone missing  data,  with  MMRM,  which assumes 
missing at random. 
In Study B2301,  non-inferiority of brolucizumab 6 mg to  aflibercept 2 mg for the  change from baseline 
in BCVA at Week 52 for the study eye using the MMRM  was confirmed with  a lower bound of the 95% CI 
for treatment difference above -4 letters (LS mean difference was -1.1 letters with 95% CI: [-2.7, 0.5]). 
Non-inferiority of brolucizumab 3 mg to aflibercept 2 mg was not achieved for the change from baseline 
in BCVA at Week 52  (95% CI: [-5.1, -1.3]). 
In Study B2302,  non-inferiority of brolucizumab 6 mg to  aflibercept 2 mg for the  change from baseline 
in BCVA at Week 52 for the study eye using MMRM  was confirmed with a lower bound of the 95% CI for 
treatment difference above -4 letters (LS mean difference was 1.7  letters with 95%  CI: [-0.0,  3.4]). 
Per Protocol analysis 
In  Study  B2301,  in  the  brolucizumab  6  mg  arm,  non-inferiority of  brolucizumab  to  aflibercept  for the  
primary endpoint  was confirmed in  the PPS with  a  lower bound of the  95%  CI for treatment  difference 
above -4  letters  (95%  CI: [-3.2,  0.2]).  In  the brolucizumab 3  mg arm, non-inferiority  of brolucizumab 
to aflibercept for the primary endpoint  was not  achieved in the PPS (95%  CI: [-5.8,  -1.6]). 
Table 9: BCVA (letters read): ANOVA results for change from baseline at Week 52 for the study eye 
(PPS – LOCF)  in Study B2301 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 39/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  Study  B2302,  non-inferiority  of  brolucizumab  6  mg  to  aflibercept  2  mg  for  primary  endpoint  was 
confirmed in the  PPS with  a lower bound of the 95% CI for treatment  difference above -4 letters. 
Table  10: BCVA (letters read): ANOVA results  for change from baseline at Week 52  for the  study eye 
(PPS – LOCF)  in Study B2302 
Impact of COVID-19  on the  primary endpoint 
The impact of COVID-19 on the change from baseline in BCVA at Week 52 for the study eye was analyzed 
by subgroup of  COVID-19 exposure and impact  using the  same model and  analysis strategy described 
for  the  primary  endpoint.  The  results  in  the  COVID-19  exposed/non-exposed  and  impacted/non-
impacted subgroups were generally comparable with those of the overall population. 
Key secondary endpoints 
• Average change from baseline in BCVA  over the period Week  40 through Week  52 (including 
in the testing strategy) 
Results for both  studies are presented below. 
Table 11: Best Corrected Visual Acuity (letters  read): ANOVA results for average change from baseline 
over the period Week 40 through Week 52  for the study  eye (Full Analysis Set – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 40/125 
 
 
 
 
 
B2301 Study 
The study  met its  first key secondary objective, demonstrating non-inferiority of  brolucizumab 6  mg to  
aflibercept 2 mg for the first key secondary endpoint.  
This  analsyis was not  conducted  for brolucizumab  3 mg  considering that  the  primary analysis was  not 
met. 
The  LS  mean  difference between  brolucizumab  6  mg  and  aflibercept  2  mg  arm  was  -1.5  letters  for 
brolucizumab (95% CI: [-3.0, -0.0]). The LS mean difference between brolucizumab 3 mg and aflibercept 
2 mg was -3.5 letters for brolucizumab (95%  CI: [-5.2,  -1.7]). 
A superiority hypothesis test  was planned to assess the average change from baseline in  BCVA over the 
period Week 40  through  Week 52.  However, since non-inferiority for  change from baseline in  BCVA at 
Week 52  for brolucizumab 3  mg  compared to  aflibercept 2  mg  was not  achieved  (p=0.227),  and  non-
inferiority of brolucizumab 3 mg to aflibercept 2 mg was not tested for the average change from baseline 
in  BCVA over  the  period  Week  40  through  Week 52,  confirmatory testing  did  not  proceed  to  assess 
superiority of  brolucizumab  6  mg  vs.  aflibercept  2  mg  for  the  average change  from  baseline in  BCVA 
over the period Week 40 through Week 52. 
B2302 Study 
The study  met its  first key secondary objective, demonstrating non-inferiority of  brolucizumab 6  mg to  
aflibercept 2  mg  for  the  first  key secondary endpoint average change  from baseline in  BCVA over  the 
period Week 40  through  Week 52  for the  study  eye, with  a non-inferiority margin  of 4  letters.  The  LS 
mean difference between the  brolucizumab and aflibercept arms was 0.9 letters for brolucizumab (95% 
CI: [-0.9, 2.6]). 
• Proportion of subjects maintaining  q12w treatment  status at Week  52 (not including in the 
testing strategy) 
The DAAs (Disease Activity Assessments) were performed to  identify q8w-need  in each treatment  arm 
at pre-specified visits during the first year of the study (Weeks 32,  36 and 48). 
Subjects in the aflibercept 2 mg arm were on a two-month (q8w) dosing interval after the loading phase 
as per protocol, and were not allowed to switch  on q12w regimen. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 41/125 
 
 
 
 
 
B2301 Study 
In the brolucizumab 6 mg  arm, the  proportion of subjects maintained on a q12w regimen through  year 
one (i.e., on  a three-month dosing interval) was 55.1%  (95%  CI: [46.9,  62.5]).  In the  brolucizumab 3 
mg arm, this  proportion was 47.4%  (95% CI: [39.3,  55.1]).   
The majority of subjects with  q8w-need  in the  brolucizumab arms were identified  via DAA at  the Week 
32 and Week 36 visits (33 and 27 subjects, respectively, out of 71 subjects with q8w-need identified up 
to Week 52 in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm, and 40 and 32 subjects, respectively, out of 82 subjects with 
q8w-need  identified  up  to  Week 52  in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  arm),  i.e.,  during  the  initial  q12w  cycle 
after the loading phase. 
Within  the 98 subjects in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm with  no q8w-need identified during the initial q12w 
cycle (i.e., that  qualified for q12w  treatment  at Week 36),  87.6%  (95%  CI: [78.8,  93.0])  remained on 
q12w  at  Week 52.  Within  the  82  subjects in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  arm  with  no  q8w-need  identified  
during the initial  q12w cycle, 87.0% (95%  CI: [77.2,  92.8])  remained on q12w at Week 52. 
Table  12: Time-to-first  q8w  treatment  need: summary for brolucizumab subjects by  DAA visit  (FAS – 
Efficacy/Safety approach) 
B2302 Study 
The  proportion  of  subjects  maintained  on  a  q12w  regimen through  year one  50.3%  (95%  CI:  [42.5, 
57.7]). 
The  majority of  subjects  with  q8w-need  in  the  brolucizumab  arm  were identified  at  the  Week 32  and 
Week 36 visits (44 and 35 subjects, respectively, out of 83 subjects with q8w-need up to Week 52; Table 
11-5),  i.e., the two DAA visits of the  initial q12w cycle after the loading phase. At the DAA visit at Week 
48 only 4 additional subjects were identified as having q8w-need. 
Within  the  87  subjects with  no q8w-need  identified during  the  initial  q12w cycle (i.e.,  that  qualified for 
q12w  treatment at Week 36),  95.1%  (95% CI: [87.4,  98.1])  remained on q12w  at Week 52 (Table 11-
6; Figure 14.2-2.2). 
Table  13: Time-to-first  q8w  treatment  need: summary for brolucizumab subjects by  DAA visit  (FAS  – 
Efficacy/Safety approach) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 42/125 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints to be analysed in a superiority testing (B2302 Study) 
Only results for B2302 study are presented below, since non-inferiority for change from baseline in BCVA 
at Week 52 for brolucizumab 3 mg compared to aflibercept 2 mg was not achieved (p=0.227) in B2301. 
study. 
• Average  change from baseline in CSFT over the period Week  40 through Week  52 
B2302 Study 
The LS mean of the  change from baseline in CSFT showed a reduction in the brolucizumab arm (-187.1 
μm)  statistically  superior  (p=0.00)  compared  to  the  aflibercept  arm  (-157.7  μm),  with  an  estimated 
difference of -29.4 μm (95%  CI: [-48.6,  -10.2]). 
Table  14: CSFT (micrometer): ANOVA results for average change from baseline over the period Week 
40 through  Week 52 for the study eye (FAS – LOCF) 
•  Average  change  from baseline  in  BCVA  over  the  period Week  40  through  Week  52  in  the 
study eye 
B2302 Study 
In  addition  of  the  non-inferiority  testing  from  the  first  key secondary endpoint,  superiority hypothesis 
test was also performed for the average change from baseline in BCVA over the period Week 40 through 
Week 52  but  did not  reach statistical  significance (p=0.164;  assessed at  a one-sided significance level 
of 0.025). 
24-months  results from the KITE study 
Further to  a request by CHMP, the Applicant has submitted results up  to week 100. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 43/125 
 
 
 
 
 
Sustained BCVA  gain from baseline  through Week  100 
The LS mean change from baseline in  BCVA at each visit from baseline up to Week 100  is presented in 
Figure 3-1.  A rapid improvement of visual acuity  was observed up to Week 32 in  both treatment  arms. 
This effect was maintained up to Week 100 with the observed LS mean change from baseline in BCVA at 
each visit showing  numerically higher  gains in the  brolucizumab 6 mg  arm compared to the  aflibercept 
2  mg  arm  at  all  post-baseline  visits,  except  one  (Week  18,  where  values  were  equal).  Overall,  the 
subjects in the  brolucizumab 6 mg arm presented continued improvements in  visual acuity during both 
the  loading and maintenance phases. The LS mean estimate of change from baseline in BCVA at Week 
100 was +10.9  letters in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm and +8.4 letters in  the aflibercept 2 mg arm, with 
a  LS  mean  difference  between  brolucizumab  6  mg  and  aflibercept  2  mg  of  2.6  letters  in  favor  of 
brolucizumab 6  mg (95% CI: [0.2, 4.9];  Table 3-1). 
In KITE at Week 100, the proportion of subjects who gained ≥15 letters in BCVA from baseline or reached 
BCVA ≥84 letters for the study eye was 49.7% in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm compared to 37.6% in the 
aflibercept 2 mg arm, with  a LS mean difference of 13.6%  in favor of brolucizumab 6 mg arm (95% CI: 
[3.3,  23.5];  Table 3-2).  In  addition,  the  observed proportion of  subjects who  lost  ≥15  letters  in  BCVA 
from baseline at Week 100 for the study eye was 2.2% in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm compared to 3.3%  
in the aflibercept 2 mg arm, with  an estimated treatment difference of -1.3%  in favor of brolucizumab 6 
mg arm (95%  CI: [-4.8,  2.0];  Table 3-2)
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 44/125 
 
 
 
Figure 3-1 BCVA  (letters read): line plot of LS mean change (+/- SE) from 
baseline by visit for the study eye in KITE (Full Analysis Set - LOCF) 
)
d
a
e
r
s
r
e
t
t
e
l
(
)
E
S
-
/
+
(
A
V
C
B
n
i
e
g
n
a
h
C
n
a
e
m
S
L
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
B
468 1
1
1
2
a
s
eli
n
2
6
8
0
2
2
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
6
6
6
7
7
8
8
8
9
9
1
4
8
2
6
0
4
8
2
6
0
4
8
2
6
0
4
8
2
6
0
0
e
Visit (Week)
Brolucizumab 6mg (N=179)
Aflibercept 2mg (N=181)
-  LS mean and SE estimates are based on an ANOVA model with baseline BCVA categories (<=65, 
>65 letters), age categories (<65, >=65 years) and treatment as fixed effect factors. 
-  BCVA assessments after start of alternative DME treatment in the study eye are 
censored and  replaced by the last value prior to  start of this  alternative treatment. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 45/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3-1BCVA (letters  read): ANOVA  results for change from baseline at Week 
100 for the  study eye in KITE (Full Analysis Set - LOCF) 
  LS mean estimate 
      N 
      LS mean (SE) 
      95% CI for LS mean 
Brolucizumab 
6mg 
N=179 
Aflibercept 
2mg 
N=181 
179 
181 
10.9  (0.85) 
8.4 (0.85) 
(9.3,  12.6) 
(6.7,  10.1) 
  LS mean difference (Brolucizumab -  Aflibercept) 
      Difference (SE) 
      95% CI for treatment difference 
2.6 (1.21) 
( 0.2,   4.9) 
- n is the number of subjects with  data used in the model. 
- Analyzed using ANOVA model with  baseline BCVA categories (<=65,  >65 letters), age 
categories (<65,  >=65 years) and treatment as fixed effect factors. 
- BCVA assessments after start  of alternative DME treatment in  the study eye are 
censored and replaced by the last value prior to start  of this  alternative treatment. 
Table 3-2 BCVA (letters read):  Number (%) of subjects with BCVA gain or loss  for the 
study eye at Week  100 in KITE (FAS - LOCF) 
>= 15 letters gain from baseline or BCVA >=84 letters at Week  100 
Brolucizumab 6 mg 
N=179 
Aflibercept 
2 mg 
N=181 
Proportion of subjects - n/M (%) 
95% CI [1] 
Comparison of BRO vs AFL 
[2]  Proportion estimates 
Difference - % 
95% CI for treatment difference 
>= 15 letters loss from baseline at 
Week  100 
95% CI [1] 
Comparison of BRO vs AFL 
[2]  Proportion estimates 
Difference - % 
95% CI for treatment difference 
89/179 (49.7) 
68/181 (37.6) 
(42.2,  57.3) 
(30.5,  45.1) 
50.4 
13.6 
(3.3, 23.5) 
36.9 
4/179 (2.2) 
6/181 (3.3) 
(0.6, 5.6) 
(1.2, 7.1) 
2.1 
-1.3 
(-4.8, 2.0) 
3.5 
- n = number of subjects satisfying the criteria of the response variable. 
- M = number of subjects with an assessment of the  criterion. 
- [1] 95% CI for binomial proportions is based on Clopper-Pearson exact method. 
- [2] Statistical  model used logistic regression adjusting for baseline BCVA categories (<=65, >65 
letters), age categories (<65, >=65  years) and treatment as fixed effect factors. 95%  CI for the 
treatment difference estimated  using bootstrap method. 
- BCVA assessments after start of alternative DME treatment in the study eye are censored and 
replaced by the  last value prior to start of this  alternative treatment. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 46/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consistent anatomical improvement in CSFT reduction and IRF/SRF resolution from baseline 
through Week  100 
In KITE, at  almost all post-baseline visits through Week 100,  anatomical improvement with numerically 
greater reduction in central subfield thickness from baseline (Figure 3-2)  and a lower proportion of 
subjects with presence of retinal fluid (IRF and/or SRF) (Figure 3-3)  was also observed for 
brolucizumab 6  mg compared to aflibercept 2 mg. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 47/125 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3-2 CSFT (micrometer): line plot of LS mean change (+/- SE) from 
baseline  by visit for the study eye in KITE (Full Analysis Set -  LOCF) 
)
m
µ
(
)
E
S
-
/
+
(
T
F
S
C
n
i
e
g
n
a
h
C
n
a
e
m
S
L
0
-50
-100
-150
-200
-250
B
468 1
1
1
2
a
s
eli
n
2
6
8
0
2
2
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
6
6
6
7
7
8
8
8
9
9
1
4
8
2
6
0
4
8
2
6
0
4
8
2
6
0
4
8
2
6
0
0
e
Visit (Week)
Brolucizumab 6mg (N=179)
Aflibercept 2mg (N=181)
-  LS mean and SE estimates are based on an ANOVA model with  baseline CSFT categories (<450, 
>=450-<650,  >=650  um), age categories (<65, >=65 years) and treatment as fixed effect factors. 
-  CSFT assessments after start of alternative DME treatment in the study eye are 
censored and  replaced by the last value prior to start of this  alternative treatment.
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 48/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High proportion of subjects deemed suitable for q12w at Weeks  32/36 (first q12w 
cycle) remained on q12w/q16w through Week  100 
The KITE 100-week data confirm the predictability of the effect observed during the first q12w 
cycle in year 1, since the majority of subjects (69.6%) who were suitable for a q12w regimen 
at  Week  32  and  Week  36  (based  on  the  disease  activity  assessment  by  the  masked 
investigator)  were able to remain on a q12w/q16w regimen through Week 100 (year 2). 
The proportion of subjects in the KITE brolucizumab 6 mg arm maintaining a q12w treatment 
regimen up  to  Week 64  (after three  q12w  treatment intervals following the loading  phase) 
was  45.5%  (95%  CI:  [37.7,  53.0]),  and  maintaining  q12w/q16w  up  to  Week 100  was 
36.8%  (95% 
CI: [29.1, 44.5];  (Table 3-3).  In addition, 87.9%  (95% CI: [73.3,  94.8]) of the subjects on 
q12w  at Week 68 and on q16w at  Week 76, were maintained on q16w  at Week 100. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 49/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3-3 Time-to-first q8w treatment need:  summary for brolucizumab subjects  by DAA 
visit in KITE (FAS- Efficacy/Safety approach) 
Brolucizumab 6 mg 
N = 179 
Number of 
subjects with 
first q8w-
need at  visit 
0 
44 
Number of 
subjects 
under  q8w-
need risk at 
179 
171 
35 
4 
7 
5 
2 
0 
1 
0 
3 
0 
122 
81 
73 
62 
53 
47 
47 
46 
46 
42 
Number 
censored 
at  the 
8 
5 
6 
4 
4 
4 
4 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
Prob. Of 
maintaining 
on 
q12w/q16w 
1 
0.743 
0.530 
0.503 
0.455 
0.418 
0.403 
0.403 
0.394 
0.394 
0.368 
0.368 
95% CI for 
probability 
of 
maintaining 
NA, NA 
0.670, 0.802 
0.451, 0.602 
0.425, 0.577 
0.377, 0.530 
0.341, 0.494 
0.325, 0.479 
0.325, 0.479 
0.317, 0.470 
0.317, 0.470 
0.291, 0.445 
0.291, 0.445 
Time 
(wee
0 
32 
36 
48 
60 
72 
76 
80 
84 
88 
92 
96 
- Censored: subjects  are considered to  no  longer be  under risk for  a  q8w-need identification  at  later 
visits. 
- Efficacy/Safety approach: censored data attributable to lack of efficacy and/or safety are 
imputed with q8w-  need = Yes at the next disease activity assessment visit. 
- Subjects extended to q16w after Week 72 are included as no q8w-need. 
For the 87 subjects in KITE who qualified for q12w treatment at Week 36 (at year 1), the year  2  results 
confirm  that  the  majority  of  these  subjects  were  maintained  on  q12w  at  Week  64  (85.9%,  95% 
CI: [76.0,  92.0])  and on q12w/q16w  at Week 100  (69.6%,  95%  CI: [57.4,  78.9], 
Table  3-4).  These  data  suggest  that  most  subjects  suitable  for  q12w  treatment  interval  can  be 
identified  during  the  first  q12w  treatment  cycle  which  occurs  in  year  one  and  also  the 
predictability of  effect seen during  the  initial  q12w  cycle extends beyond  the  first  year of  treatment. 
Table  3-4  Time-to-first q8w  treatment  need:  summary  for brolucizumab subjects  by  DAA 
visit within  those subjects  with no q8w-need  during the  initial  q12w  cycle in  KITE (FAS  - 
Efficacy/Safety approach) 
Brolucizumab 6 mg 
N = 87 
Number of   
subjects 
Number of 
subjects with  under q8w-  Number 
first q8w- 
need at visit 
need risk at  censored 
this visit 
at the  visit 
0 
0 
0 
4 
87 
87 
87 
81 
0 
0 
6 
4 
Prob. of 
maintaining on 
q12w/q16w 
(survival) 
95% CI for 
probability of 
maintaining 
q12w/q16w 
1 
1 
1 
NA,   NA 
NA,   NA 
NA,   NA 
0.951 
0.874, 0.981 
Time 
(week) 
0 
32 
36 
48 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 50/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brolucizumab 6 mg 
N = 87 
Time 
(wee
k) 
Number 
of 
subjects  with 
first q8w-  need  
at visit 
60 
72 
76 
80 
84 
88 
92 
96 
7 
5 
2 
0 
1 
0 
3 
0 
Number 
of 
subjects 
under 
q8w- 
73 
62 
53 
47 
47 
46 
46 
42 
Number 
censored 
at the  visit 
Prob. 
of 
maintaining on 
q12w/q16w 
(survival) 
95%  CI 
for 
probability  of 
maintaining  on 
q12w/q16w 
4 
4 
4 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0.859 
0.790 
0.760 
0.760 
0.744 
0.744 
0.696 
0.696 
0.760, 0.920 
0.680, 0.866 
0.646, 0.842 
0.646, 0.842 
0.628, 0.829 
0.628, 0.829 
0.574, 0.789 
0.574, 0.789 
- Censored: subjects  are considered to  no  longer be  under risk for  a  q8w-need identification  at  later 
visits. 
- Efficacy/Safety approach:  censored  data  attributable  to  lack  of  efficacy  and/or  safety  are 
imputed with q8w-  need = Yes at the next disease activity assessment visit. 
- Subjects extended to q16w after Week 72 are included as no q8w-need. 
In  KITE, a  high  proportion study treatment period were still on  extended treatment regimens  (q12w 
or  q16w)  at  Week  100  (Table  3-5on  of  the  subjects (47.5%)  in  the  brolucizumab 6  mg  arm  from 
those  who completed the 96-week).  The  remaining subjects  in  the  brolucizumab arm  (52.5%)  were 
on q8w treatment regimen at the end of the study. 
Table 3-5 Treatment status at Week  100 in KITE (FAS) 
Treatment Status 
q8w 
q12w 
q16w 
Brolucizumab  6 
mg  N=179 
n/M (%) 
74/141 (52.5) 
32/141 (22.7) 
35/141 (24.8) 
- n = number of subjects satisfying the condition. 
- M = number of subjects who completed study treatment. 
The treatment status  at  Week 100  within  subjects with  4-week extension  of treatment interval  from 
previous regimen at  Week 72  and  Week 76  is presented in  Table 3-6.  The majority of  subjects from 
those assigned to a 4-week extension of treatment interval at Week 72 and Week  76 were still on the 
assigned treatment regimens at Week 100: 54.5%  of the subjects extended  from q8w  to  q12w  were 
on q12w treatment regimen and 83.3% of the subjects extended from  q12w to q16w were on q16w at 
Week 100. 
Table 3-6 Treatment status at Week  100 within subjects with 4-weeks  extension  of 
treatment  interval from previous regimen at Week  72/76 in KITE  (FAS) 
Regimen extension at Week  72/76 
Week  100 
Treatment status at 
Brolucizumab 6 
mg N=179 
n/M (%) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020  
Page 51/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
q8w to q12w 
q12w to q16w 
q12w 
q8w 
q16w 
q8w 
24/ 44 (54.5) 
20/ 44 (45.5) 
35/ 42 (83.3) 
7/ 42 (16.7) 
- n = number of subjects satisfying the condition. 
- M = number of subjects who completed study treatment under each category. 
Overall,  the  results  of  KITE  year  2  data  demonstrate  the  sustained  BCVA  gain  and  anatomical 
improvement in brolucizumab 6 mg arm are maintained through Week 100. This observation confirms a 
5xq6w  loading dose of brolucizumab 6 mg,  followed by an individualized treatment  regimen in  DME as 
q12w  if no disease activity, or q8w  if disease activity is  identified during  year 1 maintenance phase. In 
addition, if disease stability is observed, the dosing interval could be further extended up to q16w  based 
on  the  treating  physician’s  discretion.  The  individualized  treatment  regimen  for  the  DME  patient  is 
determined  by  their  response  to  the  treatment  and  their  disease  control  status  as  assessed  by  the 
treating  physician.  The  high  proportion  (69.6%)  of  KITE  subjects  in  the  brolucizumab  6  mg  arm  who 
were identified as "no q8w treatment need" during the initial q12w cycle (at Weeks 32/36) and remained 
on  q12w  or  q16w  at  Week  100  also  supports  the  appropriateness  of  the  q12w  interval  during  the 
maintenance phase for DME  patients. 
The results overall support maintenance of the benefits over time and adequacy of the regimen proposed. 
Ancillary analyses 
Secondary endpoints initially planned in the SAP to be analysed in a superiority testing 
In B2301  study, since non-inferiority  for change from baseline in  BCVA at  Week 52  for brolucizumab 3 
mg compared to aflibercept 2 mg was not achieved (p=0.227) and non-inferiority of brolucizumab 3 mg 
to aflibercept 2 mg was not tested  for the  average change from baseline in BCVA over the period Week 
40  through  Week 52,  confirmatory testing  did  not  proceed to assess superiority of brolucizumab 6  mg 
vs.  aflibercept 2  mg  for  the  average change  from baseline in  BCVA over the  period Week  40  through 
Week 52, as well for the two following endpoints: average change from baseline in CSFT over the period 
Week 40 through  Week 52 and Presence of subretinal fluid and intraretinal fluid  at Week 52. 
In B2301 study, since the non-in given that the superiority testing for the average change from baseline 
in BCVA over the  period Week 40  through Week 52 did not  reach statistical  significance (p=0.164),  the 
confirmatory testing of superiority was not performed for the proportion of subjects without  SRF and IRF 
at Week 52. 
However, the  Applicant provided estimated differences across groups for these outcomes. 
• Average  change from baseline in CSFT over the period Week  40 through Week  52 
B2301 Study 
The LS  mean change from baseline in CSFT  was -159.5  μm  in  the  brolucizumab 6 mg  arm and  -158.1 
μm  in the  aflibercept 2  mg arm, with  an  estimated difference of -1.4  μm  (95%  CI: [-17.9,  15.0]).  The 
estimated  difference between  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  arm and  the  aflibercept 2  mg  arm was  4.9  μm 
(95% CI: [-12.3,  22.1]). 
Table 15: CSFT (micrometers): ANOVA results for average change from baseline over the period Week 
40 through  Week 52 for the study eye (FAS – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 52/125  
Page 52/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Presence of subretinal fluid and intraretinal fluid (central subfield) at Week  52 
B2301 Study 
Estimated  differences between  brolucizumab and  aflibercept were  -13.2%  (95%  CI:  [-23.2,  -3.8])  in 
favor of brolucizumab 6 mg and -14.1%  (95% CI: [-23.3,  -4.6]) in  favor of brolucizumab 3 mg 
Table 16: SRF and IRF status in the central subfield: Proportion of subjects with presence of SRF and/or 
IRF in the study eye at  Week 52 (FAS – LOCF) 
B2302 Study 
Lower proportion of subjects with presence of SRF and/or IRF in the study eye at Week 52 were observed 
in the brolucizumab arm (54.2%) compared to the aflibercept arm (72.9%), with an estimated difference 
of -18.4% (95%  CI: [-28.5, -8.3]). 
Table 17: SRF and IRF status in the central subfield: proportion of subjects with presence of SRF and/or 
IRF in the study eye at  Week 52 (FAS – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 53/125  
Page 53/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints (Not included in the  testing hierarchy) 
• Change  from baseline in BCVA  to each  post-baseline visit up to Week  52 
B2301 Study 
The  maximum observed difference in  change  from  baseline in  BCVA between  the  brolucizumab  6  mg 
arm and the  aflibercept 2  mg arm up  to  Week 52 was  -1.9  letters (95%  CI:  [-3.5,  -0.3])  at  Week 36. 
The maximum observed difference between the  brolucizumab 3 mg and the aflibercept 2  mg arm was -
4.1 letters (95%  CI: [-6.0,  -2.2])  at Week 48. 
Figure 3. BCVA (letters read): line plot of LS mean change (+/- SE) from baseline by visit for the study 
eye (FAS – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 54/125  
Page 54/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B2302 Study 
The observed LS  mean change from baseline in  BCVA at  each visit showed numerically higher gains  in 
the brolucizumab arm compared to the  aflibercept arm at  all post-baseline visits  except one (Week 18, 
where values were equal) up to Week 52, there were no clinically relevant differences observed between 
the treatment arms. 
Figure 4. BCVA (letters read): line plot of LS mean change (+/- SE) from baseline by visit for the study 
eye (FAS – LOCF) 
• Proportion of subjects with BCVA gain of >=5, >=10 and >=15 ETDRS letters from baseline 
B2301 Study 
Table  18: Gain in  BCVA (letters  read): number (%)  of subjects who  gained >=  5,  10, or 15  letters  in 
BCVA from baseline or reached BCVA >= 84  letters at Week 52 for the study eye (FAS – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 55/125  
Page 55/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B2302 Study 
Table  19: Gain in  BCVA (letters  read): number (%)  of subjects who  gained >=  5,  10, or 15  letters  in 
BCVA from baseline or reached BCVA >= 84  letters for the study eye at  Week 52 (FAS – LOCF) 
• Proportion of subjects with BCVA loss of >=5, >=10 and >=15 ETDRS letters from baseline 
B2301 Study 
Table  20:  Loss in  BCVA (letters  read):  number (%)  of  subjects  who  lost  >=15  letters  in  BCVA from 
baseline at Week 52 for the  study eye (FAS – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 56/125  
Page 56/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B2302 Study  
Table  21:  Loss  in  BCVA (letters  read):  number  (%)  of  subjects  who  lost  >=  5,  10,  and  15  letters  in 
BCVA from baseline at Week 52 for the study eye (FAS – LOCF) 
• VFQ-25  at Week  28 and Week  52 
B2301 Study  
At  Week  28,  the  improvement in  the  VFQ-25  overall score  (composite  score) was  comparable across 
treatment  arms,  as  assessed  by  the  change  from  baseline  in  the  score.  At  Week  28,  the  LS  mean 
differences were -1.9  (95%  CI:  [-4.2,  0.3])  for brolucizumab  6 mg  and -0.9  (95%  CI:  [-3.0,  1.2])  for 
brolucizumab 3  mg. 
At  Week  52,  similar  improvements  in  the  VFQ-25  overall  score  were  observed,  with  comparable 
improvements across treatment arms (LS mean differences of -1.0, 95% CI: [-3.4, 1.4] for brolucizumab 
6  mg  and -2.3,  95%  CI:  [-4.7,  0.1]  for  brolucizumab  3  mg)  and  no  noticeable  differences observed 
across subscales. 
Table 22: VFQ-25  overall scores: ANCOVA for change from baseline by visit (FAS – Observed) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 57/125  
Page 57/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B2302 Study  
At Week 28,  there was no difference between the treatment arms in terms of improvement of the VFQ-
25 overall score (composite score) and of each subscale, as assessed by the change from baseline in the 
score (see SAP in Appendix 16.1.9-Section 2.11).  At  Week 52, an improvement (LS mean change from 
baseline) was observed in the brolucizumab arm compared to the aflibercept arm for the VFQ-25 overall 
score (LS mean difference of 2.5; 95% CI: [0.2, 4.8]) and was mainly driven by the following subscales: 
role difficulties  (4.2,  95%  CI: [-0.5,  9.0]),  dependency (4.0;  95%  CI:  [0.1,  7.9]),  mental  health  (3.6, 
95% CI: [-0.8, 8.0]),  distance activities (3.5; 95%  CI: [0.3, 6.7]),  and social functioning (3.0;  95% CI: 
[0.4,  5.5]). 
Table 23: VFQ-25  overall score: ANCOVA for change from baseline by visit (FAS – Observed) 
Subgroup analysis 
• Change  from baseline in BCVA  at Week  52 
B2301 Study  
The LS mean differences between the brolucizumab 6 mg arm and the aflibercept 2 mg arm by subgroup 
were  generally  consistent  with  the  one  estimated  for  the  overall  population,  and  showed  a  small 
numerical treatment  difference in favor of aflibercept. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 58/125  
Page 58/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The subgroup of subjects without  IRF at baseline could not be analyzed because of the very low number 
of subjects qualifying (i.e., all subjects in the brolucizumab arms had IRF at baseline and only 3 subjects 
in the aflibercept 2 mg arm had no IRF at baseline). 
Figure  5:  B3201  BCVA (letters  read): Forest  plot  of  ANOVA results for change  from baseline at  Week 
52 for the study eye by subgroup of interest (FAS – LOCF) 
B2302 Study  
The  results  of  the  subgroup  analyses  up  to  Week  52  showed  a  relevant  benefit  in  terms  of  BCVA 
improvement from baseline for all subgroups (subgroup of subjects without  IRF at baseline could not be 
analyzed because of the very low number of subjects qualifying). 
Figure  6:  BCVA (letters  read): Forest  plot  of ANOVA  results for  change from baseline at  Week 52  for 
the study eye by subgroup of interest (FAS – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 59/125  
Page 59/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Analyses addressing different Estimands 
As expressed above, additional Estimands (Estimand A with  all events handled with treatment policy and 
Estimand  B with  all events treated with hypothetical  strategy) were requested to  aid the  interpretation 
of the main results.  
The results are shown below and do not  raise any concern. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 60/125  
Page 60/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Timing and occurrence of intercurrent events 
Further to a question by the CHMP, the Applicant has submitted information on the occurrence and timing  
of the main intercurrent events. The data are reported below and do not raise any further concerns. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 61/125  
Page 61/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 62/125  
Page 62/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Tipping point analysis for the  primary estimand 
The  primary estimator  for the  primary estimand  assumed MAR.  However,  MNAR  is  equally credible  in 
this clinical context. Accordingly, the CHMP has asked the applicant to assess the sensitivity of the results 
on the primary analysis to violations of the MAR assumption. 
Results  of the  tipping  point  analyses for  the  primary estimand  in  KESTREL and  KITE  (Table 16-1)  are 
shown below. In KESTREL, the size of the negative shift needed to revert the conclusion of non-inferiority 
was  found  to  be  -7  letters,  i.e.,  approximately  7  times  that  of  the  treatment  difference  between 
brolucizumab 6 mg and aflibercept 2 mg, whereas in  KITE, the  size of the tipping  point was -19  letters, 
i.e., approximately 19 times that of the treatment difference between brolucizumab 6 mg and aflibercept 
2  mg.  In  both  studies,  the  tipping  point  is  larger than  the  NIM  of -4  letters. Therefore, results  of  this 
sensitivity analysis support the conclusions of the primary analysis. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 63/125  
Page 63/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main studies 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application.  These summaries should  be  read in  conjunction  with  the  discussion  on  clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 24: Summary of Efficacy for trial B2301 (KESTREL study) 
Title:  A  two-year,  three-arm,  randomized,  double  masked,  multicenter,  phase  III  study 
assessing the  efficacy and  safety  of brolucizumab versus aflibercept  in adult  patients with 
visual impairment due to diabetic macular edema  (KESTREL) 
Study identifier 
Design 
CRTH258B2301 
Randomized,  double-masked,  multicenter,  active-controlled  clinical  trials  to 
compare the efficacy and safety of brolucizumab 3 mg and brolucizumab 6 mg 
versus aflibercept 2  mg (Eylea®), in  subjects with  visual impairments due to 
Diabetic Macular Edema (DME) versus aflibercept 2 mg IVT (Eylea®). 
100 weeks 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Non-inferiority 
Hypothesis 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 64/125  
Page 64/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brolucizumab 3 mg. 96  weeks, n=190 
Brolucizumab 6 mg. 96  weeks, n=189 
Aflibercept 2 mg. 96  weeks, n=187 
Letters (EDTRS) 
Letters (EDTRS) 
in 
at 
Change 
from 
baseline 
BCVA 
Week 52 
Average 
change 
BCVA 
Baseline 
over 
the 
period Week 
40 
through 
Week 52 
in 
from 
Treatments groups 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Experimental : low  dose 
Experimental : high  dose 
Active comparator 
Primary 
endpoint 
key 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
Database lock 
11-Nov-2020 
Results and  Analysis  
time 
population 
point 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
other: FAS 
Week 52 
mg  
190 
Number 
subject 
Primary endpoint 
of 
Treatment group  Brolucizumab  3 
Brolucizumab  6 
mg  
189 
Aflibercept  
2 mg  
187 
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
key 
Change 
from 
baseline  in  BCVA 
at Week 52 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
Average  change 
in  BCVA 
from 
Baseline over the 
period Week 40 
through Week 52 
Primary endpoint 
Primary endpoint 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
key 
key 
7.3 (SE: 0.66) 
9.2 (SE: 0.57) 
10.5 (SE: 0.57) 
(95% CI: 
6.0, 8.6) 
(95% CI: 
8.1, 10.3) 
(95% CI: 
9.4, 11.7) 
7.0 (SE: 0.63) 
9.0 (SE: 0.53) 
10.5 (SE: 0.53) 
(95% CI: 
5.8, 8.3) 
(95% CI: 
7.9, 10.0) 
(95% CI: 
9.4, 11.5) 
Comparison groups 
Difference (SE) 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Difference (SE) 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Difference (SE) 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Difference (SE) 
95% CI 
Brolucizumab  3  mg  vs 
Aflibercept 2 mg 
-3.3 (0.94)   
(-5.1,  -1.4) 
0.227 
Brolucizumab  6  mg  vs 
Aflibercept 2 mg 
-1.3 (0.81) 
(-2.9,  0.3) 
<0.001 
Brolucizumab  3  mg  vs 
Aflibercept 2 mg 
-3.5 (0.90) 
(-5.2,  -1.7) 
/ 
Brolucizumab  6  mg  vs 
Aflibercept 2 mg  
-1.5 (0.75) 
(-3.0,  -0.0) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 65/125  
Page 65/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
Non-inferiority in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 58 was met in 
Per Protocol analysis for brolucizumab 6 mg 
P-value 
<0.001 
Table 25: Summary of Efficacy for trial B2302 (KITE study) 
Title:  A  two-year,  two-arm,  randomized,  double  masked,  multicenter,  phase  III  study 
assessing the  efficacy and  safety of brolucizumab versus aflibercept in adult patients 
with visual impairment due to diabetic macular edema  (KITE) 
Study identifier 
Design 
CRTH258B2302 
Randomized,  double-masked,  multicenter,  active-controlled  clinical  trials  to 
compare the efficacy and safety of brolucizumab 6 mg versus aflibercept 2 mg 
(Eylea®), in subjects with  visual impairments due to Diabetic Macular Edema 
(DME) versus aflibercept 2 mg IVT (Eylea®). 
100 weeks 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Non-inferiority 
Experimental : high  dose 
Active comparator 
Primary 
endpoint 
Brolucizumab 6 mg. 96  weeks, n=179 
Aflibercept 2 mg. 96  weeks, n=181 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
in 
at 
Change 
from 
baseline 
BCVA 
Week 52 
Average 
change 
BCVA 
Baseline 
over 
the 
period Week 
40 
through 
Week 52 
in 
from 
key 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
Database lock 
29-Jun-2020 
Results and  Analysis  
time 
population 
point 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
other: FAS 
Week 52 
mg  
190 
Number 
subject 
Primary endpoint 
of 
Treatment group  Brolucizumab  6 
Aflibercept  
2 mg 
189 
10.6  (SE: 0.66) 
9.4 (SE: 0.66) 
(95% CI: 
9.3, 11.9) 
(95% CI: 
8.1, 10.7) 
/  
/  
/  
/  
key 
Change 
from 
baseline  in  BCVA 
at Week 52 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
Average  change 
from 
in  BCVA 
Baseline over the 
period Week 40 
through Week 52 
Primary endpoint 
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
10.3  (SE: 0.62) 
9.4 (SE: 0.62) 
/  
(95% CI: 
9.1, 11.5) 
(95% CI: 
8.2, 10.6) 
/  
Comparison groups 
Brolucizumab  6  mg  vs 
Aflibercept 2 mg 
Page 66/125  
Page 66/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First 
secondary 
endpoint 
key 
Difference (SE) 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Difference (SE) 
95% CI 
P-value 
1.2 (0.94) 
(-0.6, 3.1) 
<0.001 
Brolucizumab  6  mg  vs 
Aflibercept 2 mg 
0.9 (0.88) 
(-0.9,  2.6) 
<0.001 
Notes 
Non-inferiority in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 58 was met in 
Per Protocol analysis for brolucizumab 6 mg 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
For the purpose of assessing the potential benefit of treatment with brolucizumab 6 mg in a larger group 
of subjects with DME  on the underlying DR, pooled data (E-db) from Study B2301 and Study B2302 for 
the secondary endpoint related to ≥2-step improvement from baseline in DRSS at Week 52 was analyzed. 
Given that  the primary objective in each Phase III study was  met (see section on Statistical  methods), 
the statistical  test of the non-inferiority of the pooled DRSS data was performed. 
The Baseline DRSS characteristics at baseline are presented below. 
Table 26: Baseline diabetic retinopathy severity in the study eye (E-db,  Full Analysis Set) 
- n = number of subjects with an assessment. 
- m = number of subjects with assessment meeting the criterion for the given categorical variables. 
- Percentages (%) are calculated based on n. 
- DR = Diabetic Retinopathy, NPDR = Non-proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy, PDR =Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy. 
Source: [SCE Appendix 1-Table a1-1] 
Non-inferiority  of  brolucizumab  6  mg  compared to  aflibercept  2  mg  with  respect to  the  proportion  of 
subjects  with  ≥2  step  improvement in  DRSS at  Week 52  was  achieved, with  proportion  estimates  of 
28.9% in  the brolucizumab 6 mg arm and 24.9% in the aflibercept 2 mg arm, with a difference of 4.0% 
(95%  CI:  -0.6,  8.6;  p<0.001),  with  the  lower  bound  of the  95%  CI, -0.6%,  above the  specified non-
inferiority margin of -10% (difference in  proportions). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 67/125  
Page 67/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Applicant indicates  that  similar results  were observed with  an  analysis using  the  Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel (CMH)  method and excluding data after PRP. 
Table  27:  Diabetic Retinopathy  Severity Scale (DRSS): Comparison for proportion of  subjects  with  at 
least a 2-step improvement from baseline in DRSS at Week 52 for the study eye (E-db, Full Analysis Set 
– LOCF) 
The Applicant explored also data with  ≥3 step improvement. The proportion of subjects with  a ≥3-step  
improvement  from baseline  in  the  ETDRS  DRSS score  at  Week  52  was  comparable  between the  two  
treatment  arms, with  proportion estimates of  17.7%  in  the  brolucizumab 6  mg  arm and  16.0%  in  the 
aflibercept 2 mg arm with  a difference of 1.7% (95%  CI: -2.9, 6.3). 
Results are also provided for subpopulations. 
Table  28:  Diabetic  Retinopathy  Severity  Scale  (DRSS):  Forest  plot  for  difference  in  proportions  of 
subjects  with  at  least  a  2-step  improvement from  baseline in  DRSS at  Week  52  for  the  study  eye by 
subgroup of interest  (E-db, Full  Analysis Set – LOCF) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 68/125  
Page 68/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, results were consistent with  results in each studies. 
Table 29: Study B2301  and Study B2302:  Comparison for proportion of subjects with  at least a 2-step 
improvement from baseline in DRSS for the  study eye 
As intensive blood glucose control reduces the risk of developing retinopathy and reduces the  risk  of 
worsening existing  diabetic retinopathy, the  Applicant was  asked to  further  discuss  the  adequacy of 
the control of the diabetes in patients enrolled in the studies, and its potential impact  on the results. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 69/125  
Page 69/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Applicant  pointed  out  that  an  eligible  subject  was  required  to  have  been  taking stable  diabetic 
medication(s)  within  3  months  prior  to  baseline (inclusion  #  4).  In  addition,  the  subject’s HbA1c  at 
screening should have been < 10% (inclusion #3). 
Furthermore,  the  Applicant  showed  that  an adequate  glycemic control  at  time  of  subject  enrollment 
was maintained throughout the course of the study. While this ease the interpretation of the results, on 
the other hand can be seen as a limitation  in the  knowledge of the effects of brolucizumab in patients 
with less controlled diabetes. Consequently, the SmPC will state “There is limited experience with Beovu 
treatment in diabetic patients  with HbA1c  greater than 10%”. 
2.4.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
To date, intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF  (LUCENTIS ®  - ranibizumab and EYLEA®  - aflibercept) are 
commonly used in the management of patients  with  visual impairment secondary to DME.  
The  Applicant  conducted 2  randomized,  double-masked, multicenter,  active-controlled clinical  trials  to 
compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  brolucizumab  6  mg,  and  brolucizumab  3  mg  in  B2301,  versus 
aflibercept 2  mg (Eylea®),  in subjects  with  visual impairments due  to  Diabetic Macular Edema  (DME). 
Both  studies  are conducted  versus aflibercept  2  mg IVT (Eylea®).  The  total  studies  duration  was  100 
weeks.  The  main  difference  in  study  design  were  that  B2301  study  included  a  brolucizumab  3  mg 
treatment  arm in  addition  to  the 6  mg  arm, while  the 6  mg  dose only has been investigated  in  B2302 
study. 
The general design of the  two Phase 3 pivotal studies is appropriate. 
The selection criteria are globally consistent with the  target population.  Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes 
mellitus are included in the studies. The cut-off defined for Hba1c level (i.e. 10%) and for central subfield 
retinal  thickness (320  µm)  are in  line with  the CHMPA  SA of  2016.  However, the  upper baseline BCVA 
limit  for  inclusion  was  78  letters.  It  is  supported  that  source  population  should  reflect  current  usual 
practice.  However,  the  inclusion  patients  with  mild  impairment  and  thus  having  a  less  room  for 
improvement  may  not  allow  to  observe  a  difference  between  aflibercept  and  brolucizumab  in  this 
subpopulation  if  exists and  drive  the  non-inferiority.  Additionally,  there  are uncertainties  whether  the 
study  population is  representative enough  of the  European population.  In response to a  question from 
the  CHMP,  the  list  of  countries  where  subjects  were  enrolled,  as  well  as  the  number  of  subjects  per 
country,  have  been  provided  by  the  Applicant,  reassuring  the  generalization  of  the  results  to  the 
European population.   
Patients in  brolucizumab arms (3 mg and 6 mg) received 5 loading doses every 6 weeks (q6w) (Day 0, 
Week 6,  Week 12,  Week 18  and Week 24), followed by maintenance regimens every 12 weeks (q12w) 
or  every  8  weeks  (q8w)  depending  on  the  disease  activity  status.  But  patients  in  aflibercept  arms 
received  monthly  5  loading  doses  (Day  0,  Week  4,  Week  8,  Week  12  and  Week  16),  followed  by 
maintenance regimen every 8 weeks (q8w), and were not  allowed to  switch on a q12w regimen. 
The 3 mg and 6  mg selected doses correspond to the  doses selected investigated in the  pivotal studies 
in  nAMD (HAWK  and HARRIER). This  is understood. But,  the  q6w  regimen for the lauding  phase is  not 
fully justified. However, considering that efficacy results show that the plateau in gain in BCVA is reached 
in an acceptable time compared to aflibercept, and the fact that q6w aim to reduce the treatment burden, 
no  further  concerns are  raised. After  the  launching  phase,  patients  of  the  brolucizumab  groups were 
allowed to follow a q12w regimen or a q8w regiment depending on the disease activity assessment. First, 
despite  disease activity  is  determined  by  the  masked investigator,  no  defined  criteria  have been  set; 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 70/125  
Page 70/125 
 
 
 
 
 
recommendation remain  vague. Therefore, the  absence of  well-defined  disease activity  criteria.  In  its 
answer to a  question from the  CHMP,  the Applicant  indicates that  no  defined  exact criteria  have  been 
set  in  order  to  mimic  real-world  practice.  While  this  is  not  a  conservative  approach,  this  can  be 
understood.  Additionally, as  the  proportion of  subjects in  the  brolucizumab 6  mg  arm was  maintained 
on  a  q12w  regimen, meaning  with  no  disease activity,  was relatively similar  across the  two  KITE  and 
KESTREL  studies,  this  suggests  no  large  variation  across  investigators’  assessment.  Secondly, 
considering that patients  of the aflibercept groups were not allowed to  switch on the  q12w regimen, no 
comparison between brolucizumab and aflibercept on the  total  number of injections  and the  treatment 
burden can be done.  Thirdly, patients  from brolucizumab groups were not  permitted  to switch back on 
q12w  once being on  q8w regimen. Therefore extension/re-extension of the interval  between injections 
is  not  assessed.  Finally,  at  Week  52  (i.e.  the  primary  timepoint),  patients  were  able  to  achieve  a 
maximum of 2 cycle of treatments  on q12w  only. However, the  2 years results of  the KITE study  have 
been provided in response to a question from the CHMP. While the  proportion of brolucizumab subjects 
by DAA visit within  those subjects with no q8w-need during the initial  q12w cycle in KITE decreases over 
the time, a massive drop is not observed during the second year (95% at Week 48 vs 70% at Week 96). 
Together with  the maintenance of the benefice in BCVA at Week 100,  this is in favor of the adequacy of 
the q12w  regimen. 
More broadly, personalized regimen (pro re nata or Treat-and-Extend) were not investigated, in at least 
one of  the  two  studies  or for the  second year. However, such treatment  strategies  are largely used  in 
common practice to manage anti-VEGF IVT medication, in particular to reduce the number of injections, 
and  thus  the  risk  linked  to  intravitreal  injection  and  the  patient  burden.    Based  on  the  masked 
investigator’s discretion, a 4-week treatment interval extension could be made to the subject’s treatment 
regimen at  the time  of Week 72  (i.e. prolonging  the  treatment interval  from q8w  to q12w,  or  q12w  to 
q16w).  However, starting more personalized treatment  at Week 72,  while welcomed, does not allow  to 
further investigate the adequacy of such individualized treatment in brolucizumab given the short period 
of assessment (e.g. only one cycle of treatment  for patient  under the  q16w  regimen). Thus, no  strong 
conclusion can  be drawn.  The Applicant  is still  encouraged to  further  investigate personalised regimen 
for  brolucizumab  in  DME  in  additional  studies.  Aflibercept  2  mg  IVT  (Eylea®)  was  an  appropriate 
comparator since it can be considered as part of the standard of care for DME. 
Overall, objectives and endpoints  are acceptable. Testing the non-inferiority of brolucizumab compared 
to a current standard of care medication (i.e. Eylea®) was appropriate for primary analysis. Additionally, 
the  mean  change in  BCVA from  baseline  is  an  acceptable primary  endpoint  with  clinical  relevance in 
DME. The primary timepoint  (i.e. 52 weeks) is also reasonable.  
Secondary endpoints were generally acceptable. However, the Applicant did not provide a comprehensive 
discussion of the ranking of the key secondary endpoints and the  endpoints of the hierarchical strategy, 
and of the  clinical  significance of  this  ranking. Additionally, although  endpoints on  the suitability  of  the 
q12w  regimen are flagged  as key secondary endpoints,  there  are not  part  of the  hierarchical strategy 
given no testing analysis can be done; no comparison to aflibercept is possible, so results are descriptive 
only. 
Long term assessments (i.e. Week 100) are planned. Considering that  in real life practice many patients 
are treated for  more than  1  years, 24-month  data were requested. The  2  years results  were provided 
by the  Applicant is response to a question from the CHMP. These support a maintenance of the benefice 
over the time. 
The non-inferiority  margin of  4 is  considered too broad and  therefore not  acceptable. However, this  is 
overruled by the actual  findings, as the  lower limit  of the confidence interval is within  the  3 letter  non-
inferiority margin that  has been accepted. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 71/125  
Page 71/125 
 
 
 
 
 
In  each  pivotal  study,  it  is  noted  that  both  the  primary  estimand  on  the  FAS  and  the  supplemental 
estimand on the PPS include a mix of treatment  policy strategies and hypothetical  strategies depending 
on the ICE considered. In order to further assess the robustness of the primary and first key secondary 
analyses, supplementary analyses based on  alternative estimands were  requested from the  Applicant. 
Overall,  the  results  from  these  supplementary  analyses  showed  consistency  with  the  primary  and 
sensitivity analysis of the study reports, confirming the  robustness of the main efficacy results. 
In all primary and first key secondary endpoint analyses, missing data are either imputed using LOCF or 
based on MAR assumption (in MMRM  analyses). However, data are likely MNAR, and it was of interest to 
assess the  potential  impact  of  MNAR  data  on  the  results.  Therefore, the  Applicant  was  requested  to 
perform tipping point analyses.  Based on these results, the impact of MNAR data on the efficacy results 
should be limited and is not expected to impact the  study conclusions. 
The  multiple  testing  procedure for  the  pooled  non-inferiority  analysis of  the  DRSS endpoint  based  on 
both  studies  DR2301  and  DR2302  is  questionable.  Nevertheless,  the  pre-specified pooled  analysis  is 
deemed  acceptable  but  requires  a  careful  interpretation  of  the  results,  based  on  both  achieved 
significance levels and their clinical relevance.  
The  Applicant  was  requested  to  clarify  the  proportion  of  imputed  values  by  treatment  group  and  by 
reason  for  imputation  for  the  pooled  DRSS  analysis.  A  sensitivity  analysis  was  also  provided  where 
missing/censored  values  are  counted  as  failures  (non-improvement).    The  sensitivity  analyses  with 
missing/censored values imputed as failures showed lower improvements rates in both treatment arms, 
with a treatment difference that  remained consistent with the CSR results. The conclusions remained the 
same. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
566  subjects  were randomized  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to  the  brolucizumab  6  mg  (n=189)  or  3  mg  (n=190) 
arms, or to the  aflibercept 2 mg arm (n=187)  in the B2301  study, while 360  subjects were randomized 
in a 1:1 ratio to brolucizumab 6 mg arm (n=179)  or aflibercept 2 mg arm (n=181)  in the B2302 study. 
Overall, the conduct  of  the study  is thus  considered acceptable. Additionally, further  discussion on  the 
revision of  the  inclusion  criterion number  5  on central  subfield  retinal thickness  regarding the  efficacy 
results was  provided by the  Applicant  in the  response to a  question from the  CHMP  reassuring that  no 
impact is anticipated. 
Generally, demographic and patients  characteristics were well balanced across arms. However, we can 
observe a significant  imbalance in  the  proportion of  patients  with  a BCVA superior to 65  letters  across 
groups in  the  B2302  study.  The proportion was  numerically higher  in  the  brolucizumab group,  63.7%, 
than  in  the  aflibercept  group,  49.7%.  But  subgroup  analysis are  reassuring.  Additionally,  the  overall 
proportion of patients with  type I diabetes remains very limited, 4.9 % in B2301 study and 7.2% B2302 
study. In the answer to  a question from the CHMP,  the Applicant indicated that the  proportion of Type I 
diabetes in  KESTREL and KITE studies is consistent with  the other anti-VEGF studies in DME  population. 
This can be followed. However, no discussion was provided regarding the representativeness of the Type 
I population.  However, considering that  no discrepancies are observed in subgroup analysis, this is not 
of concern. 
The  mean BCVA at  baseline was  65.9  letters  and 64.9  letters  respectively in  B2301  study  and  B2302 
study, while the mean CSFT was 461.5 µm and 482.7 µm respectively in B2301 study and B2302 study.  
The time since diagnosis of DME was well balanced among groups, large majority of the patients having 
a diagnosis inferior to 3  months. Additionally, despite  that  selection criteria allowed to  include subjects 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 72/125  
Page 72/125 
 
 
 
 
 
with  history of  periocular or intraocular  corticosteroid treatments  or laser (with  respectively 6  months 
and 3 months of wash-out), it  is unclear whether or non-naïve-treatments patients were enrolled in the 
study. In its response to a question from the CHMP, the Applicant indicated that  no non-treatment-naïve 
patients were enrolled in  KESTREL and KITE studies; no  data are thus  available. While the current data 
are sufficient to conclude on the present application, the Applicant should consider to further investigate 
the efficacy/safety in this subpopulation in the  clinical development, evaluating the switch  from another 
anti-VEGF to brolucizumab.  
All patients  were included in FAS population,  in  both studies.  Additionally, differences in  the proportion 
of  subjects  included  in  the  Per  Protocol  population  between  brolucizumab  arms  and  aflibercept  arms 
remains limited. 
According to  the primary analysis, the  non-inferiority of brolucizumab  6 mg  group over the aflibercept 
group  was  demonstrated  in  B2301  and  B2301  studies.  Analysis  in  FAS  and  PPS  were  consistent, 
supported by sensitivity analysis and by the first key secondary endpoint, average change in BCVA from 
Baseline over the period Week 50 through Week 42,  for which  non-inferiority was also met. 
However, the  non-inferiority of brolucizumab 3 mg group over the aflibercept group was not  achieved 
for the primary endpoint. As a consequence, the hierarchical strategy was stopped. Therefore, 
superiority testing  of brolucizumab 6 mg vs. aflibercept 2 mg were not  performed for following 
endpoints: Average change from baseline in BCVA over the period Week 40 through Week 52,  Average 
change from baseline in CSFT over the period Week 40 through  Week 52 and Presence of subretinal 
fluid and intraretinal fluid at  Week 52. 
In  B2301  study, regarding FAS  population,  the  mean change  in BCVA from Baseline at  Week  52,  with 
95%  CI, for Brolucizumab 6  mg and  Aflibercept were respectively 9.2  [8.1,  10.3]  and 10.5  [9.4,  11.7] 
letters.  In  pairwise  ANOVA,  the  non-inferiority  of  Brolucizumab  6  mg  compared  to  Aflibercept  were 
demonstrated with a LS mean difference -1.3  letters (95% C.I.: -2.9,  0.3; p<0.001). 
In  B2302  study, regarding FAS  population,  the  mean change  in BCVA from Baseline at  Week  52,  with 
95%  CI,  Brolucizumab  6  mg  and  Aflibercept  were  respectively  10.6  [9.3,  11.9]  and  9.4  [8.1,  10.7] 
letters.  In  pairwise  ANOVA,  the  non-inferiority  of  Brolucizumab  6  mg  compared  to  Aflibercept  were 
demonstrated with a LS mean difference 1.2  letters (95% C.I.: -0.6, 3.1;  p<0.001).   
Regarding the assessment of the regimen, second key secondary endpoint estimated with 95% CI  that 
the probability for a subject to be maintained on the q12w regimen up to the disease activity assessment 
at Week 52 was 55.1% [46.9,  62.5]  in B2301 study and 50.3 % [42.5,  57.7] in B2302 study. However, 
as discussed above, there is too limited  cycle of treatment on q12w regimen to properly assess whether 
or not q12w is appropriate to manage patients with visual impairment secondary to DME. In the response 
to  a  question  from  the  CHMP,  the  Applicant  provided  the  2  years  data  of  the  KITE  study.  While  the 
proportion  of  brolucizumab  subjects  by  DAA  visit  within  those  subjects  with  no  q8w-need  during  the 
initial  q12w  cycle in  KITE decreases over the  time,  a  massive drop is  not  observed during  the  second 
year (95% at  Week 48 vs 70% at Week 96). Together with the  maintenance of the benefice in BCVA at 
Week 100,  this is in favor of the adequacy of this regimen. 
In B2302 study, superiority testing for the change from baseline in CSFT over the period Week 40 through 
Week  52  reached  statistical  significance  (LS  mean  difference  of  -29.4  μm  [95%  CI:  -48.6,  -10.2], 
p=0.001).  However this  result  could not  be  replicated in  the  B2301  study, because superiority  testing 
were not allowed (see comment above). Additionally, the superiority was not met for the average change 
from  baseline  in  BCVA  over the  period Week  40  through  Week 52  (p=0.164).  Therefore, the  testing  
sequence was stopped and  Presence of subretinal  fluid and  intraretinal fluid  (central  subfield) at  Week 
52 was not tested for superiority. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 73/125  
Page 73/125 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, outcomes in anatomical parameters, in particular mean change in  CSFT from Baseline to  Week 
52 and presence of SRF and/or IRF at Week 52, were supportive of the non-inferiority of 6 mg compared 
to aflibercept. 
Results in  responder analysis for BCVA (i.e.: proportion of patients  having a gains of at least 15  letters 
from  Baseline or  a  BCVA  >=  84  letters  at  Week  52),  are consistent  with  primary  outcomes  for both 
B2301 and B2302 studies. However, in B2301,  proportion of subjects with  BCVA gain of >=5 and >=10 
TDRS letters from baseline, and proportion of subjects with  BCVA gain of >=5 and >=10  ETDRS letters 
from baseline were not well compiled in the body report. The Applicant has provided such analysis in the 
response to a question from the  CHMP. No discrepancies with  main outcomes were noted.  
Overall, subgroup  analysis showed  consistencies  across  the  subpopulations  in  both  B2301  and  B2302 
studies.  This  was  reassuring, especially regarding imbalances  in  the  B2302  study  in  the  proportion  of 
patients  Type 1 diabetes at baseline and the proportion of patients with  a BCVA superior to 65 letter  at 
baseline. 
Assessment of the Quality of Life was also supportive of the benefice of brolucizumab 6 mg. 
Finally, for the purpose of assessing the potential benefit of treatment with brolucizumab 6 mg in a larger 
group  of  subjects  with  DME  on  the  underlying  DR,  pooled  data  (E-db)  from  Study  B2301  and  Study 
B2302  for the  secondary endpoint  related to  ≥2-step  improvement from baseline in  DRSS at  Week 52 
was analysed. Overall, DRSS characteristics at baseline was well balance across the brolucizumab 6 mg 
arm and  the  aflibercept arm. However, given that  patients  with  active  PDR are excluded of  the  study, 
the  proportion of patients with  a PDR was very limited  making difficult  the  generalisation of the  results 
in this  subset. 
Analysis of  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  ≥2-step  improvement in  DRSS at  Week  52  shown  a  non-
inferiority of brolucizumab 6mg  versus aflibercept with  an estimated difference of 4.0%  (95% CI: -0.6, 
8.6; p<0.001).  The proportion estimates, with  95% CI, were 28.9%  [24.6, 34.3]  in the brolucizumab 6 
mg  arm  and  24.9%  in  the  aflibercept  2  mg  arm  [20.3,  29.4].  Results  are  supported  by  sensitivity 
analysis,  subgroup  analysis and  analysis  of  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  ≥3-step  improvement  in 
DRSS at Week 52. 
However, the worsening  of diabetic retinopathy, in  particular for non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy, 
can be  slow and  progress over years. Therefore, a sustained  effect over time  has to  be shown.  In  the 
response to  a  question  from the  CHMP,  the  Applicant  has  provided 24-Month  data  for  DRSS analysis. 
Overall, results at Week 100 in proportion of subjects with >=2-step  improvement from baseline in the 
DRSS score are consistent with  outcomes at  Week 52  in  both  KESTREL and KITE studies.  Additionally, 
intensive  blood  glucose  control  reduces  the  risk  of  developing  retinopathy  and  reduces  the  risk  of 
worsening  existing  diabetic  retinopathy.    Following  the  response  to  a  question  from  the  CHMP,  the 
Applicant  additional  results  showing  that  the  HbA1c  level  seems  stable  in  the  brolucizumab  and 
aflibercept  groups over  the  study  duration,  reassuring adequate  controlled  diabetes.  The  downside  is 
that  there  is  no  data  in  patients  with  poorly controlled  diabetes.  In  line  with  this,  a  statement  in  the 
SmPC  has  been  introduced  whereby  “There  is  limited  experience  with  Beovu  treatment  in  diabetic 
patients with  HbA1c greater than  10%”. 
Moreover, based on the statistical method, it is challenging to draw any meaningful conclusions regarding 
the control of the type I error within or across studies. Despite the proposed method this pooled analysis 
is ultimately accepted, conclusions should be thus interpreted very cautiously. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 74/125  
Page 74/125 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Overall, the clinical development based on 2  randomized, double-masked, multicenter, active-
controlled clinical trials, B2301 and B2302 studies, is considered as acceptable. Furthermore, the 
general design of both pivotal Phase III studies is appropriate.  
The results support the demonstration of the  non-inferiority of brolucizumab 6  mg compared to 
aflibercept.  
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
Key safety data provided consist of the 52-week data analysis from the 2 pivotal Phase III studies in the 
target indication of DME detailed below. 
For  this  submission, the  cut-off  dates  for last  patient  completed  Week 52  are 11-Nov-2020  for  Study 
B2301 and 29-Jun-2020  for Study B2302. 
Safety  data  for  both  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  is  provided  up  to  52  weeks  in  the  target  indication. 
However, both  studies  have a  treatment  period  of 100  weeks; therefore long  term  safety  in  the  DME 
indication is continuously monitored and this data will  become available at study completion. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 75/125  
Page 75/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the  studies have similar designs, assessments and length, and both studies contain brolucizumab 
6 mg and aflibercept 2 mg treatment arms with  1 to 1 randomization ratio, the data can be pooled. The 
study  designs allow  the  comparison of  brolucizumab 6  mg  and aflibercept 2  mg  treatment  in  terms of 
safety; in  addition, the safety of treatment  with brolucizumab 3 mg can be evaluated in  Study B2301. 
Three different pooled safety databases (S-db) were used to  analyze the safety data from the 2 pivotal 
studies used for this  submission.  
-Loading S-db 1;  P1 
This pool included data up to and including Week 28 from the both  studies. 
During  the  first  28  weeks  of  treatment  (Week  28)  brolucizumab  subjects  were  scheduled  to  receive 
5xq6w injections and aflibercept subjects were scheduled to receive 5xq4w and the first injection in the 
maintenance  phase  (8  weeks  after  last  loading  dose).  Week  28  is  4  weeks  after  the  subjects  have 
received their last active injection in both  the brolucizumab and aflibercept arms. 
Since the duration  of exposure (28  weeks) is the  same for the  brolucizumab treatment groups and  the 
aflibercept group in  this pool,  it was  mainly used to evaluate the  safety during  the  first 28  weeks after 
study treatment initiation. 
-Loading S-db 2;  P2  
This  pool  is  a subset  of  Loading  S-db  1  and  was  created because the  loading  phase  for brolucizumab 
(5xq6w, 24  weeks) has a longer duration than the loading phase for aflibercept (5xq4w, 16 weeks). 
Taking  a  conservative approach,  in  this  pool,  data  up  to  and  including  Week  28  is  included  for  the 
brolucizumab  treatment  groups  and  data  up  to  and  including  Week  20  is  included  for  the  aflibercept 
treatment  group.  Thus,  in  this  pool,  subjects  in  all  treatment  groups  were  scheduled  to  receive  5 
injections;  however  exposure  duration  differs  between  brolucizumab  (28  weeks)  vs.  aflibercept  (20 
weeks). 
This pool was used in combination with  Loading  S-db 1 to evaluate the safety of brolucizumab at  Week 
28  and  aflibercept  at  Week  20,  since  the  same  number  of  IVT  injections  (5  injections)  had  been 
administered in  the brolucizumab and aflibercept treatment arms up to these time points. 
-52 week  S-db; P3 
This pool includes all primary analysis data from both studies. This pool is to evaluate the safety profile 
of brolucizumab over 52 weeks following treatment compared to that  of aflibercept. 
Two other studies are ongoing in DME indication: 
-  CRTH258B2304  (KINGLET):  Two-arm,  double  masked,  one  year,  randomized,  multicentre  study 
assessing the efficacy and safety of brolucizumab versus aflibercept in adult Chinese patients with visual 
impairment due to DME 
-  CRTH258B2305  (KINGFISHER):  Two-arm,  double masked, randomized,  12-Month,  multicentre  study 
assessing the  efficacy and  safety of  brolucizumab  every 4  weeks versus aflibercept every 4  weeks  in 
+adult  patients with  visual impairment due to DME 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 76/125  
Page 76/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
•  Exposure to treatment 
-Loading S-db 1;  P1 
The duration of treatment (Week 28) was the same for the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg group; as expected most of the  pooled brolucizumab 6 mg subjects (91.6%) and most 
of  the  subjects  in  the  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  in  Study  B2301  (85.8%)  had  received  5  scheduled 
injections and most of the pooled aflibercept 2 mg subjects (89.9%)  had received 6 scheduled injections. 
Table 30:  Exposure to treatment  in the loading phase Sdb-1 and 2 
-Loading S-db 2;  P2 
In this database, which by design was to match the number of injections in each pooled treatment group, 
the proportion of subjects who had received the scheduled number of injections was similar in the pooled 
brolucizumab  6  mg  group  (5  injections,  91.6%  at  Week  28)  and  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group  (5 
injections, 91.8%  at Week 20). 
-52 week  S-db; P3 
Up to  Week 52,  the median number of administered active injections was 7 in the  pooled brolucizumab 
6  mg  arms in  both  Study  B2301  and  Study  B2302  and  brolucizumab 3  mg  arm in  Study  B2301  vs.  9 
injections in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group in both Study B2301 and Study B2302. 
The  percentage of  subjects receiving 8  injections  (the  second highest  frequency) in  the  brolucizumab 
groups was 29.9%  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 30.0% in the  brolucizumab 3 mg arm of 
Study B2301. 
This difference between the  treatment  arms was  driven by the different  IVT injection  schedules during 
the loading phase for each arm of the studies and the changes in IVT injection schedule based on disease 
activity assessment during the maintenance phase in the  brolucizumab arms. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 77/125  
Page 77/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 31:  Exposure to treatment  up to week  52 
studies.  
•  Subject disposition 
-Loading S-db 1 and 2  
The majority of  subjects (>  92%)  across treatment  groups completed  the  loading phase of  the study, 
without  discontinuing  study  drug, up  until  Week 28.  The frequency of discontinuation  of study  prior to 
or  at  Week 28  was  higher  in  the  3  mg  brolucizumab group  in  Study  B2301  (7.4%),  compared to  the 
pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group (3.0%) and pooled aflibercept 2 mg group (3.8%). 
Similarly, discontinuation of study treatment prior to or at Week 28 was higher in the 3 mg brolucizumab 
group  in  Study  B2301  (7.9%)  compared  to  the  pooled  6  mg  brolucizumab  (4.3%)  and  the  pooled 
aflibercept  group  (4.3%).  The  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  of  study  drug  in  the  loading 
phase until Week 28 (whether the subject remained in the study or not) was ‘adverse event’ for subjects 
in the  3 mg  brolucizumab group in  Study B2301  (2.6%);  in the  pooled 6 mg brolucizumab (1.6%)  and 
in the aflibercept groups (1.6%),  followed by ‘subject decision’ in the 3 mg brolucizumab group in Study 
B2301  (2.1%);  in  the  pooled  6  mg  brolucizumab  (1.1%);  and  in  the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group 
(1.4%). 
-52 week  S-db 
The  majority  of  subjects  (>  87%)  in  both  studies  completed  the  52  week  study  treatment  without 
permanently discontinuing  study drug, with similar proportions of subjects completing across treatment 
groups. 
The  most  common  reasons for  discontinuation  of  study  treatment  in  the  52  week database  (whether 
remaining in the study or not) were ‘subject decision’ (3.7% of subjects in the 3 mg brolucizumab group 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 78/125  
Page 78/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in Study B2301; 4.1% in the pooled 6 mg brolucizumab group; and 2.4% in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg 
group).  A similar proportion of  subjects discontinued  study treatment  due  to  ‘adverse event’ in  the  52 
week database in  all 3  treatment  groups (3.7%  of  subjects in  the  3  mg  brolucizumab group  in  Study 
B2301; 3.0%  in the pooled 6 mg brolucizumab group; and 3.5% in the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg group). 
Table 32:  Subject disposition in 52-week  S-db 
•  Patient  demographics and baseline  characteristics 
Since the  3 different pooled safety databases which were used to  analyze the safety data represent the 
same  patient  population  with  different  durations  of  exposure,  demographics  are  described  for  the 
Loading safety database 1 only. 
Demographics in  the  Loading safety database 1  were similar across treatment  groups. The  race of  the 
subject  population  was  predominantly  classified as ‘White’  and  the  ethnicity  of the  subject  population 
was  predominantly ‘not  Hispanic  or Latino’.  The  mean age  was  62.4-  64.4  years, median 64.0  years, 
with  subjects’ age ranging from 23-87 years in the 3 treatment groups. There were more male subjects 
(62.5-65.5%)  than  female subjects (34.5-37.5%)  in the study  population. 
Baseline  diabetes  characteristics  were  generally  comparable  across treatment  groups  in  the  Loading 
safety database 1. While the proportion of patients with  HbA1c  of less than 7.5%  was 43% in the  6 mg 
group and 55%  in the aflibercept 2 mg group, the mean HbA1c levels were similar (≤ 10% was required 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 79/125  
Page 79/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as per eligibility 1-1criteria for adequate glycemic control). The majority of subjects presented with  Type 
2 diabetes (>91% in all 3 treatment groups). There were more subjects in the 6 mg brolucizumab group 
with Type I diabetes (8.4%) compared to the 3 mg brolucizumab (5.3%)  and aflibercept (3.5%) groups. 
Baseline ocular characteristics for the study eye were comparable across the treatment groups in Loading 
safety database 1. The majority (>  77% in  all 3 treatment groups) were diagnosed with  DME within  12 
months prior to baseline; for the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 there was a large variability 
of time  since diagnosis  of DME  (0-295  months,  mean 12.5  months  with  SD 30.82  months).  The mean 
baseline  BCVA in  the  study  eye  was  comparable across treatment  groups  (64.5-66.3  letters  read)  in 
Loading safety database 1. A greater proportion of subjects had a BCVA of > 65 letters at baseline in all 
3 groups (57.9-62.2%)  compared to those subjects with  BCVA ≤ 65  letters at baseline. The mean CSFT 
was similar across treatment  groups (456.0-479.9  μm). 
More comprehensive data are provided in Efficacy part. 
•  Prior and concomitant medications or treatments 
There were a similar proportion of subjects (5.7% of subjects in the 6 mg brolucizumab and 6.3% of the 
aflibercept group) in the Loading safety database 1, who had prior ocular medications for the study eye. 
The proportion of subjects who had prior non-ocular medications was comparable (12.0% of subjects in 
the 6 mg brolucizumab group and 10.6%  of the aflibercept group) in the Loading safety database 1. 
A similar proportion  of subjects (20.9%  of  subjects in  the 6  mg brolucizumab  group and 20.4%  of  the 
aflibercept group) in the  Loading safety database 1, took concomitant  ocular medications for the  study 
eye at  least  once during  the  treatment  period.  As expected in  this  DME  subject  population,  almost  all 
subjects  were  taking  non-ocular  medications  concomitantly  during  the  treatment  period  (100%  of 
subjects  in  the  6  mg  brolucizumab  group  and  99.2%  of  the  aflibercept  group  in  the  Loading  safety 
database 1 
Medications with  a start date after the  start date of treatment  with  an alternative DME treatment are 
not included. 
Adverse events 
1-  COMMON  AE 
AE  incidences are summarized for all  the  3  pooled safety databases. These S-dbs  represent the  same 
patient population  with  different durations of exposure. 
Loading safety database  1: the duration of exposure is the same for the brolucizumab treatment arms 
and the aflibercept arm in this pool, this  pool was mainly for evaluating the non-ocular safety during the 
28 week loading phase. 
Loading safety database  2 is a subset of Loading safety database 1;  this pool is used to evaluate the 
ocular  safety  between  the  brolucizumab  28  week  (4  weeks  following  the  loading  phase)  and  the 
aflibercept 20  week (4 weeks following the loading phase) since both  pools include the same number of 
injections. This database was planned to take a conservative approach focusing more on events possibly 
related to number of injections (5 x loading). The incidence of ocular AEs in the study eye was generally 
comparable between  brolucizumab and  aflibercept in  the  Loading  safety database 1&2.  Therefore, the 
results of  the  Loading safety database 1  are mainly  explained in  this  document,  and the  results of  the 
Loading safety database 2 are presented in the  tables. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 80/125  
Page 80/125 
 
 
 
 
 
The 52 week  safety database  includes all primary analysis data from Study B2301 and Study B2302. 
This pool is to evaluate the overall safety during the  52 weeks of treatment. 
•  Loading s-db 1 and  2 
-Ocular AE 
At  Week 28  in  P1,  subjects  in  the  pooled brolucizumab  6  mg  group  and  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  in 
Study B2301  were scheduled to receive 5 injections,  and subjects in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group 
were scheduled to  receive 6  injections. The  proportion of subjects  experiencing at  least 1  ocular AE  in 
the study eye was similar between the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group (24.2%)  and pooled aflibercept 
2 mg group (25.0%)  at Week 28  (Table 33:  Ocular AE in S-db 1 & 2). In Study B2301 the proportion 
of subjects in  the brolucizumab 3 mg group who had at least 1 ocular AE was 33.2%. 
Conjunctival hemorrhage was the most commonly reported ocular AE in the study eye in Loading safety 
database 1  and occurred in a similar proportion of subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group (17 
subjects; 4.6%)  and pooled aflibercept 2 mg group (21 subjects; 5.7%).  Conjunctival hemorrhage was 
reported in 14  subjects (7.4%)  in the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study B2301. 
Table 33:  Ocular AE in S-db 1 & 2 
At  Week  28,  the  most  frequently  reported  SOC  was  eye  disorders  (21.5%  of  subjects  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group and 23.4% of subjects in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group); in Study B2301 
in the brolucizumab 3 mg group it was 32.6%.   
Treatment-related AE 
In the  Loading  safety database 1  &  2,  at Week 28,  2.2%  of subjects  in the  pooled brolucizumab 6  mg 
group  and  0.8%  of  subjects in  the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg  group  had  at  least  1  AE  suspected by  the 
Investigator to be related to study  drug, whereby all AEs were classified in  the SOC of Eye disorders in 
both treatment groups; apart from 1 AE (0.3%)  in the SOC of Investigations (PT of IOP increased in the 
brolucizumab 6 mg group. At  Week 28,  in the  brolucizumab 3  mg group, 3.2%  of subjects had at least 
1  AE suspected by  the  Investigator to be  related to  study  drug, whereby all  AEs were classified in  the 
SOC of Eye disorders; apart from 1 AE (0.5%) in the  SOC of Investigations (PT of IOP increased). 
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular  AEs  suspected  by  the  Investigator  to  be  related  to  the  study 
treatment, at Week 28, were uveitis 2 subjects (0.5%) in pooled the brolucizumab 6 mg group, 1 subject 
(0.3%)  in  the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group;  and  iridocyclitis  2  subjects  (0.5%)  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6  mg group and 0 subjects in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 81/125  
Page 81/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Severity 
In Loading safety database 1,  at Week 28,  the majority of ocular AEs in the  study eye were considered 
to  have  a  maximum severity which  was  mild  or  moderate. The  proportion  of  subjects  having  mild  or 
moderate ocular  AEs  of the  study  eye was  similar  across  all  treatment  groups  (22.6 %  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group, 23.9% in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group and 31.6% in brolucizumab 3 mg 
group in  Study B2301.  The proportion of  subjects with  severe ocular AEs was similar across treatment 
groups  (6  subjects;  1.6 %  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  4  subjects;  1.1  %  in  the  pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg group, 3 subjects; 1.6%  in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301). 
The severe ocular AEs in the study  eye were as follows: 
Brolucizumab 6 mg group: 
- SOC eye disorders (5 subjects): uveitis (2 subjects), eye irritation (1 subject), iridocyclitis (1 subject), 
retinal artery occlusion (1 subject), diabetic retinopathy (1 subject) 
- SOC infections and infestations (1  subject): endophthalmitis 
Aflibercept 2 mg group: 
-  SOC  eye  disorders (4  subjects):  corneal  degeneration  (1  subject),  retinal  detachment  (1  subject), 
cataract (1 subject), diabetic retinopathy (1 subject) 
- SOC infections and infestations (1  subject): endophthalmitis 
Brolucizumab 3 mg group: 
-  SOC eye disorders (2  subjects): Uveitis,  retinal  vasculitis,  macular oedema and  optic  nerve disorder 
(all  4  events  in  1  subject),  endophthalmitis  and  hypopyon  (both  events  in  1  subject),  retinal  artery 
occlusion (1 subject) 
-Non-ocular AE 
The  proportion  of  subjects  experiencing  at  least  1  non-ocular  AE  was  similar  between  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group (49.5%)  and pooled aflibercept 2 mg group (51.1%).  In Study B2301 at Week 
28  the  proportion of  subjects  in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  group  who  had  at  least  1  non-ocular AE  was 
54.2%.  The  most  frequently  reported  SOC  was  infections  and  infestations  (18.2%  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group, and 16.0% in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group; 25.8% in the brolucizumab 
3 mg group in Study B2301). 
The most frequently reported non-ocular AE by preferred term in any treatment group were hypertension 
(5.4%  of subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 5.4%  of subjects in the  pooled aflibercept 2 
mg group; 4.7% of subjects in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301) and nasopharyngitis (3.8%  
of  subjects  in  the  pooled brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  2.7%  of  subjects  in  the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg 
group; 6.3% of subjects in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 82/125  
Page 82/125 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 34:  Non-ocular AE in S-db 1 
Treatment-related AE 
In Loading safety database 1, 1 subject  (0.3%)  in the  pooled brolucizumab 6 mg  group and 2 subjects 
(0.5%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group had non-ocular AEs that were suspected by the Investigator 
to be related to  study drug. 
- in the  brolucizumab 6 mg group: 1  subject had an AE of blood pressure increased that was suspected 
to be related to  study drug 
-  in  the  aflibercept group:  1  subject  with  lacunar stroke  and  1  subject  with  transient  ischemic  attack 
were suspected to be related to study drug 
Severity 
In Loading database 1, at Week 28, the majority of non-ocular AEs were considered to have a maximum 
severity which  was  mild  or  moderate. The  proportion of  subjects  having mild  or moderate non-ocular 
AEs was 44.0 % in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 46.0% in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  severe  non-ocular  AEs  was  similar  between  treatment  groups  (20 
subjects; 5.4 %  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 19  subjects; 5.2 % in the  pooled aflibercept 2 
mg group). 
The most frequently reported non-ocular AEs which  were considered severe were in the primary SOC of 
cardiac disorders and the  proportion was  similar between  treatment  groups;  7  subjects (1.9%)  in  the 
pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group  (cardiac  failure  (3  subjects),  myocardial  infarction  (2  subjects), 
congestive cardiac failure (1  subject), acute myocardial infarction  (1 subject),  coronary artery stenosis 
(1  subject))  and  3  subjects (0.8%)  in  the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg  group  (cardiac failure (2  subjects), 
acute myocardial infarction (1 subject)). There were 4 subjects (1.1%) in the pooled brolucizumab group 
and  3  subjects  (0.8%)  in  the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group,  who  had  severe AEs  under  the  SOC  of 
infections and infestations. 
•  52 week  S-db  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 83/125  
Page 83/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Ocular AE 
In the 52 week safety database the proportion of subjects experiencing at least 1 ocular AE in the study 
eye was  similar  between  the  pooled brolucizumab  6  mg  group  (35.1%)  and  pooled  aflibercept 2  mg 
group (34.0%)  (Table 35).  In  Study B2301  the proportion  of subjects in  the brolucizumab 3  mg group 
who had at least 1 ocular AE was 42.6%. 
Conjunctival hemorrhage was the most commonly reported AE in the 52 week safety database (5.7% of 
subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 6.5%  of subjects in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group 
and 8.9% of subjects in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301). 
Overall, at  Week 52,  the  incidence of  ocular AEs  in  the  study  eye was  higher  in  all treatment  arms in 
Study B2301 (brolucizumab 6 mg 40.2%,  aflibercept 2 mg 39.0%  and brolucizumab 3 mg 42.6%), than 
in Study B2302 (brolucizumab 6 mg 29.6%, aflibercept 2 mg 28.7%)  but the type of AEs and proportion 
of AEs were similar between treatment arms within each study. However, there were no clinically relevant 
differences in the incidence of AEs between brolucizumab and aflibercept treatment arms in both pivotal 
Phase III studies. Thus, comparisons of AE proportions in the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study B2301 
to the pooled brolucizumab 6  mg and aflibercept groups should be made with caution due to this ‘study 
effect’. 
Treatment-related AE 
The proportion of subjects with  ocular AEs in  the study eye suspected by the Investigator to  be related 
to  study  drug  was  low  in  both  pooled  treatment  groups  of  the  52  week  S-db  (2.7%  for  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group, 1.4% for pooled aflibercept 2 mg group) and in the brolucizumab 3 mg group 
in  Study B2301  (5.3%).  There were a small number of  AEs reported after  Week 28,  in  both  treatment 
pools, that were suspected by the Investigator to be related to study drug; all AEs were classified in the 
SOC of Eye disorders in both treatment groups; apart from 1 AE (0.3%)  of in the SOC of Investigations 
(PT of IOP increased in the brolucizumab 6 mg group). 
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular  AE  suspected  by  the  Investigator  to  be  related  to  the  study 
treatment  in  the  52  week safety  database  were uveitis  3  subjects  (0.8%)  in  the  brolucizumab 6  mg 
group, 1 subject (0.3%)  in  the aflibercept group; iridocyclitis; 2 subjects (0.5%)  in  the brolucizumab 6 
mg  group,  0  subjects  in  the  aflibercept  group  and  vitreous  floaters;  2  subjects  (0.5%)  in  the 
brolucizumab 6  mg group, 1 subject (0.3%)  in the aflibercept group. 
Severity 
In the 52  week safety database, the majority of ocular AEs in the  study eye were considered to  have a 
maximum  severity which  was  mild  or  moderate. The  proportion  of  subjects  having  mild  or  moderate 
ocular AEs of the study  eye was similar across all treatment groups (33.2% in the  pooled brolucizumab 
6  mg  group,  32.1%  in  the  pooled  aflibercept 2  mg  group and  39.5%  in  brolucizumab 3  mg  group  in 
Study B2301. Seven subjects (1.9 %) in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group; 7 subjects (1.9 %) in the 
pooled aflibercept 2  mg group and 6  subjects (3.2%) in  the brolucizumab 3  mg group in Study B2301, 
had severe ocular AEs in the  study eye. 
The severe ocular AEs in the study  eye for the pooled treatment groups were as follows: 
Brolucizumab 6 mg group 
- SOC eye disorders (6 subjects): uveitis (2 subjects), eye irritation (1 subject), iridocyclitis (1 subject), 
retinal artery occlusion (1 subject), diabetic retinopathy (1 subject), diabetic retinal oedema (1 subject) 
- SOC infections and infestations (1  subject): endophthalmitis 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 84/125  
Page 84/125 
 
 
 
 
 
Aflibercept 2 mg group: 
-  SOC  eye disorders  (7  subjects):  corneal  degeneration (1  subject),  retinal  detachment  (2  subjects), 
cataract (2 subjects), diabetic retinopathy (1 subject), cataract subcapsular (1 subject) 
- SOC infections and infestations (1  subject): endophthalmitis 
Brolucizumab 3 mg group: 
-  SOC eye disorders (5  subjects): Uveitis,  retinal  vasculitis,  macular oedema and  optic  nerve disorder 
(all 4 events in 1  subject), retinal detachment (1  subject), retinal artery occlusion and retinal vasculitis 
(both events in 1 subject), retinal vein thrombosis (1 subject) and cystoid macular oedema (1 subject). 
-  SOC  infections  and  infestations  (2  subjects):  endophthalmitis  (1  subject),  endophthalmitis  and 
hypopyon (both  events in 1 subject). 
Table 35:  Ocular AE in 52 week  S-db 
At  Week  52  the  most  frequently  reported  SOC  was  eye  disorders (30.4%  of  subjects  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group, and 30.7% of subjects in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group; 40.5% of subjects 
in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301). 
-Non-ocular AE 
In the 52 week safety database, a similar proportion of subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group 
(64.1%),  the  pooled aflibercept 2 mg  group  (67.7%)  and  brolucizumab 3  mg group (64.2%)  in  Study 
B2301 experienced at least 1 non-ocular AE (Table 36). 
Infections  and infestations  was  the  most  frequently  reported SOC across treatment  groups  (27.2%  of 
subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 25.8% of subjects in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group 
and 33.2% of subjects in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in  Study B2301). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 85/125  
Page 85/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 36:  Non-ocular AE in 52 week  S-db 
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  (ocular  and  non-ocular)  in  Study  B2301  and  Study  B2302  were 
consistent  with  that  reported  in  the  52  week  pooled  safety  database,  and  were  comparable  across 
treatment arms.  
Treatment-related AE 
In the 52 week safety database there were no further non-ocular AEs which were suspected to be related 
to study treatment  than those observed up to Week 28 (1  subject (0.3%) in the  pooled brolucizumab 6 
mg group and 2  subjects (0.5%)  in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group had nonocular AEs). 
Severity 
In  the  52  week safety database  the  majority of  non-ocular  AEs  were considered to  have  a maximum 
severity which  was  mild  or  moderate. The  proportion of  subjects  having mild  or moderate non-ocular 
AEs was 54.1 % in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 58.2% in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  severe  non-ocular  AEs  was  similar  between  treatment  groups  (37 
subjects; 10.1%  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 35 subjects; 9.5%  in the  pooled aflibercept 2 
mg group). 
The  primary SOC with  the  most  frequently  reported severe AEs  for  the  52  week safety  database was 
cardiac  disorders;  11  subjects  (3.0%)  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group  (cardiac  failure  (3 
subjects),  myocardial infarction  (3  subjects),  congestive  cardiac failure  (1  subject),  acute  myocardial 
infarction  (1  subject), coronary artery stenosis (1  subject),  cardiac arrest (1  subject), coronary artery 
disease (1 subject), aortic valve stenosis (1 subject)) and 7 subjects (1.9%) in the  pooled aflibercept 2 
mg group (cardiac failure (2 subjects), congestive cardiac failure (1 subject), coronary artery disease (1 
subject),  acute  myocardial infarction  (2  subjects),  bradycardia (1  subject),  cardiorenal  syndrome  (1 
subject), chronic cor pulmonale (1 subject)). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 86/125  
Page 86/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were 6  subjects  (1.6%)  in  the  pooled brolucizumab  group and  9  subjects  (2.4%)  in  the  pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg group, who had severe AEs under the SOC of nervous system disorders. 
2-ANALYSIS  OF  ADVERSE EFFECT DOSE-RESPONSE  INFORMATION 
No  dedicated  analysis  was  performed  to  assess  the  relationship  between  brolucizumab  dose  and 
incidence of AEs. 
A comparison of AE event frequencies between the brolucizumab 3 mg and 6 mg groups (dose-response 
comparison) has to be interpreted with  caution since the  brolucizumab 3 mg group was only included in 
Study  B2301,  while the  brolucizumab 6  mg  and aflibercept 2  mg  results are obtained from  the pooled 
pivotal Study B2301 and Study B2302.  Therefore, a direct comparison between brolucizumab 3 mg only 
in B2301 study and brolucizumab 6 mg in both studies could be confounded by study effect. 
In Study B2301,  up to  Week 52,  the overall incidence of  ocular and non-ocular AEs and SAEs, and AEs 
leading  to  study or  treatment  discontinuation  were  generally comparable between the  brolucizumab  6 
mg  and  3  mg  arms.  The  incidence  of  ocular  AEs  in  the  study  eye  was:  brolucizumab  6  mg  40.2%, 
aflibercept 2 mg 39.0% and brolucizumab 3 mg 42.6%). Fewer AESIs were reported in the brolucizumab 
6 mg arm compared to  the brolucizumab 3 mg arm.  
Serious adverse events and deaths, other significant events 
1-  DEATHS 
Overall, 13  subjects  died  during  the  52  week  primary analysis of  Study  B2301  and  Study  B2302;  all 
deaths were not  suspected to be related to study treatment by the investigator. The deaths occurred in 
8  subjects in  pooled brolucizumab 6  mg  group, 4  subjects in  the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg  group and  1 
subject in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in  Study B2301. 
•  Loading s-db 1 and  2 
In the Loading safety database 1, 3 subjects (0.8%)  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 2 subjects 
(0.5%)  in  the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg group and  1  subject (0.5%)  in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg group  in 
Study B2301 died up to and including Week 28 (Table 37). 
None of the deaths were suspected to be related to study drug by the Investigator. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 87/125  
Page 87/125 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 37:  Deaths  reported in loading S-db 1 
•  52 week  S-db  
In the  52 week safety database, 8  subjects (2.2%)  in the  pooled brolucizumab 6  mg group including  1 
subject who died due to COVID-19 infection, 4 subjects (1.1%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group and 
1  subject  (0.5%)  in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  group in  Study  B2301  died  up  to  and  including  Week  52 
(Table 38). 
None of the deaths were suspected to be related to study drug by the Investigator. 
Table 38:  Deaths  reported in 52-week  S-db 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 88/125  
Page 88/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2-  Other  serious AE 
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
-Ocular AE 
In the Loading  safety database 1 & 2,  at Week 28, 4  subjects (1.1%)  in  the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg 
group, 3 subjects (0.8%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group and 5 subjects (2.6%) in the brolucizumab 
3 mg group in Study B2301  experienced at least 1 ocular SAE (Table 39). The most frequently reported 
SOC  across treatment  groups  was  eye disorders,  which  occurred in  3  subjects  (0.8%)  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group, 2 subjects (0.5%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group and 4 subjects (2.1%) 
in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301. 
Each SAE was  reported only once in  Loading safety database 1  & 2  (at  Week 28)  apart  from the  SAEs 
with  PTs  of retinal  vasculitis and  endophthalmitis.  Retinal vasculitis  was reported in  2  subjects  (1.1%) 
in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 but in 0 subject in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group 
and 0 subject in  the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. Endophthalmitis  was reported in 2 subjects (0.5%) 
in  the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg  group, 1  subject  (0.3%)  in  the  pooled brolucizumab 6  mg  group and  1 
subject (0.5%) in  the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 (Table 39). 
Table 39:  Ocular SAE reported in the  loading S-db 1&2 
-Non-ocular AE 
In the Loading safety database 1, a similar proportion of subjects across treatment  groups experienced 
at  least  1  non-ocular  SAE;  10.3%  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  12.5%  in  the  pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg group and 8.4% in  the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 (Table 40). 
The most frequently reported non-ocular SAE by preferred term in  the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group 
(3 subjects; 0.8%)  was diabetes mellitus; there were 0 subject where this SAE had been reported in the 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 89/125  
Page 89/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group,  or  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  in  Study  B2301  (Table  40).  Myocardial 
infarction was reported in 2  subjects (0.5%)  in the  pooled brolucizumab 6 mg  group, 1 subject (0.5%) 
in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  group  in  Study  B2301  and  0  subject in  the  pooled aflibercept  2  mg  group. 
Cardiac failure congestive was reported in 2  subjects (1.1%)  in  the brolucizumab 3  mg group in  Study 
B2301, 1 subject (0.3%) in  the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 0 subject in the pooled aflibercept 
2 mg group. 
Table 40:  Non-ocular SAE reported in the loading S-db 1 
•  52 week  S-db  
-Ocular AE 
In the 52 week safety database, the  frequency of ocular serious adverse events was low and consistent 
across all three treatment groups (Table 41). A higher proportion of subjects (3.7%) in the brolucizumab 
3  mg  group  in  Study  B2301  experienced at  least  1  SAE  in  the  study  eye  compared  to  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group (1.6%) and the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group (1.9%);  however this could be 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 90/125  
Page 90/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  study  effect.  The  most  frequently  reported  SOC  across  treatment  groups  in  the  52  week  safety 
database  was  eye disorders  (4  subjects  (1.1%)  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  6  subjects 
(1.6%)  in the  pooled aflibercept 2  mg group and 6 subjects (3.2%)  in  the brolucizumab 3 mg  group in 
Study B2301 experienced at least 1 ocular SAE). 
The  most  frequently  reported  SAEs  in  the  study  eye  by  preferred  term  were  retinal  vasculitis  and 
cataract. Retinal vasculitis was reported in 3  subjects (1.6%)  in  the brolucizumab 3 mg  group in Study 
B2301 and 0 subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and pooled aflibercept 2 mg groups (Table 
41).  Cataract was reported as an  SAE in  3 subjects (0.8%)  in  the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group  and 0 
subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301. 
Frequencies of ocular SAEs were low for the study eye and the fellow eye.  
Table 41:  Ocular SAE reported in the  week  52 S-db 
-Non-ocular AE 
In the  52  week safety database, a similar  proportion of subjects  across treatment  groups  experienced 
at  least  1  non-ocular  SAE  (17.7%  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  20.1%  in  the  pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg group and 12.1%  in the brolucizumab 3  mg group in Study B2301 (Table 42). 
The most frequently reported non-ocular SAE by preferred term in  the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group 
was myocardial infarction which was reported in 3 subjects (0.8%), 1 subject (0.5%) in the brolucizumab 
3 mg group in Study B2301 and 1 subject (0.3%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. Diabetes mellitus 
was reported in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group in 3 subjects (0.8%) with 0 subjects reporting this 
SAE  in  the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group  or  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  in  Study  B2301.  Congestive 
cardiac  failure  was  reported  in  subjects  (1.1%)  in  the  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  in  Study  B2301,  2 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 91/125  
Page 91/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects (0.5%)  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 1 subject (0.3%)  in the  pooled aflibercept 
2 mg group. 
Non-ocular  SAEs up  to  Week 52  in  Study  B2301  and  Study B2302  are detailed  in  Section  12.3.2.2  of 
each individual CSR.  
Table 42:  Non-ocular SAE reported in the week  52 S-db 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 92/125  
Page 92/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study B2304  and Study B2305 
For  Study B2304  and Study B2305  SAE cases were retrieved from their respective study starts  (Study 
B2304: FPFV  23-Aug-2019,  Study B2305: FPFV 17-Jul-2019)  until  15-Jan-2021. 
At the time of the safety data cut-off (15-Jan-2021)  for Study B2304, 17% of enrollment had completed 
(46  subjects  had  been randomized/ 268  planned  subjects) and  for  Study  B2305  enrollment  had been 
completed; 517/ 517  subjects had been randomized. 
No  new safety signal  for brolucizumab was  identified from  a review of these SAE  cases in  the  ongoing 
DME studies. The SAEs identified in the ongoing DME studies were similar to the safety data observed in 
the CSRs for Study B2301 and Study B2302. 
AESI 
1-OCULAR  AESI 
•  Loading S-db 1  
A total  of  19  subjects in  the  Loading  safety database 1  had  at  least one ocular AESI in  the  study  eye. 
The percentage of subjects with  at least one event categorized under endophthalmitis was similar (0.3% 
(95%  CI  0.01%-1.50%)  in  the  pooled brolucizumab  6  mg group  vs. 0.5%  (95%  CI 0.07%-1.95%)  in 
the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group,  with  a  risk  difference  for  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  –  pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg of -0.3% (95% CI -7.62%-7.08%).  One subject (0.5%) in the brolucizumab 3 mg group 
in Study B2301 had an event categorized as endophthalmitis.   
The percentage of subjects with at least one event categorized under intraocular inflammation was higher 
in the  pooled brolucizumab 6  mg group 1.6%  (95%  CI 0.53%-2.99%)  vs. 0.5%  (95%  CI 0.00-1.66% ) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 93/125  
Page 93/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  the  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  group,  with  a  risk  difference  for  pooled brolucizumab  6  mg  –  pooled 
aflibercept  2  mg  of  1.1%  (95%  CI  -0.54%-2.72%).  There  were  3.7%  of  subjects  who  had  events 
categorized as intraocular inflammation in the  brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301.  
There are many PTs under the category term of intraocular (only retinal vasculitis is displayed separately 
in  Table  43).  There was  1  subject  (0.3%)  with  at  least  one  event categorized under  the  PT  of  retinal 
vasculitis  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab 6  mg group  (95%  CI 0.01%-1.50%)  vs.  0  subjects (95%  CI  0-
1.0%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group, with  a risk difference for pooled brolucizumab 6 mg – pooled 
aflibercept 2  mg of 0.3%  (95% CI -7.08%-7.62%).  There were 2 subjects (1.1%)  who had events with 
a PT of retinal vasculitis in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in  Study B2301. 
There were 2 subjects with  at least one event categorized under retinal vascular occlusion in the pooled 
brolucizumab 6  mg  group 0.5%  (95%  CI  0.07%-1.95%)  vs. 0%  (95%  CI  0.00-1.00%))  in the  pooled 
aflibercept 2  mg group, with  a risk difference for  pooled brolucizumab  6 mg  – pooled aflibercept 2  mg 
of 0.5% (95% CI -6.81%-7.89%).  One subject (0.5%) in  the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 
had an event categorized as retinal vascular occlusion.  
Table 43:  Ocular AESI in the loading phase (S-db 1) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 94/125  
Page 94/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 44:  Forest plot for AESI including incidences and risk differences for pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg vs. pooled aflibercept 2 mg, by category  (S-db 1) 
•  52 weeks  S-db  
A total  of 29 subjects  in the  52 week safety database had at  least one ocular AESI in the  study eye up 
to Week 52. Since there were a total  19 subjects who  had ocular AESIs up to Week 28, the  majority of 
subjects  (19/29;  66%)  had  their  first  ocular AESI  in  the  first  28  weeks (approximately 6  months)  of 
treatment. 
There were no  further  cases of endophthalmitis  occurring in  subjects  after 28  weeks  treatment  in  the 
pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and pooled aflibercept 2 mg groups (0.3%  (95%  CI 0.01%-1.50%)  in 
the  brolucizumab  6  mg  group  vs.  0.5%  (95%  CI  0.07%-1.95%)  in  the  aflibercept group,  with  a  risk 
difference for pooled brolucizumab 6 mg – pooled aflibercept 2 mg of -0.3%  (95% CI -7.62%-7.08%). 
In  the  week 52  safety database the  percentage of subjects  with  at  least  one  event categorized under 
endophthalmitis  was the same as at Week 28 and similar (0.3%  (95%  CI 0.01%-1.50%)  in  the pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group vs. 0.5% (95%  CI 0.07%-1.95%)  in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group, with 
a  risk difference for pooled  brolucizumab 6  mg  –  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg  of -0.3%  (95%  CI  -7.62%-
7.08%).  There was 1  additional subject  who had  endophthalmitis  after 28  weeks treatment;  so a total 
of 2 subjects (1.1%) in the  brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 in the week 52 safety database.  
In  the  52  week safety database the  percentage of subjects  with  at  least  one  event categorized under 
intraocular inflammation was higher in  the pooled brolucizumab 6  mg group (13 events in  10 subjects; 
2.7%  (95%  CI 0.84%-5.29%)  vs. 1.1%  (5  events in  4  subjects;  95%  CI  0.00-  2.49%)  in  the  pooled 
aflibercept 2  mg group, with  a risk difference for  pooled brolucizumab  6 mg  – pooled aflibercept 2  mg 
of 1.6% (95% CI -0.83%-4.76%).  Nine subjects (4.7%) in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 
had 17 events categorized as intraocular inflammation.  
In the  52  week safety database there was  1 subject  (0.3%)  with  at  least one event  categorized under 
the PT of retinal vasculitis in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group (95% CI 0.01%-1.50%)  vs. 0 subjects 
(95% CI 0-1.0%)  in the pooled aflibercept 2  mg group, with  a risk difference for pooled brolucizumab 6 
mg  – pooled aflibercept 2  mg  of 0.3%  (95%  CI -7.08%-7.62%).  In the  brolucizumab 3  mg  treatment 
group in Study B2301 there was one additional subject with  an event with  a PT of retinal vasculitis; thus 
a total of 3 subjects (1.6%) at  Week 52 (Table 2-20). 
In the 52 week safety database there was 1 additional event categorized under retinal vascular occlusion 
in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group; total of 2 subjects (0.5% (95% CI 0.07%- 1.95%) and 1 subject 
(0.3%  (95%  CI 0.01%-1.50%))  in  the pooled aflibercept 2 mg  group, with  a risk difference for pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg – pooled aflibercept 2 mg of 0.3% (95% CI - 7.08%-7.62%).  There was 1 additional 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 95/125  
Page 95/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
event categorized under retinal vascular occlusion in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301; total 
of 2 subjects (1.1%) in the  week 52 safety database.  
Table 45:  Ocular AESI in the maintenance  phase  (S-db 3) 
Table  46:  Forest  plot  for  AESI  including  incidences  and  risk  differences  for  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg vs. pooled aflibercept 2 mg, by category  (S-db 3) 
At Week 52, there were more ocular AEs of special interest reported in Study B2301 compared to Study 
B2302 (Table 47). Intraocular inflammation was reported in more subjects in the brolucizumab 6 mg (7 
subjects; 3.7%)  and 3 mg (9 subjects; 4.7%)  treatment groups in Study B2301  compared to the  6 mg 
brolucizumab (3  subjects; 1.7%)  treatment group in Study B2302. 
There were  no reports  of AEs  categorized with  a PT  of  retinal  vasculitis  in  Study  B2302  (in  either  the 
brolucizumab 6 mg group or the aflibercept 2 mg group). However, in Study B2301 in the brolucizumab 
groups there were 3 subjects (1.6%)  in the  brolucizumab 3 mg treatment  group and 1  subject (0.5%) 
in the brolucizumab 6 mg treatment group (and 0 subjects in the aflibercept 2 mg treatment group) with 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 96/125  
Page 96/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AEs categorized with  a PT of retinal  vasculitis. There was  1 subject (0.6%)  who had an  AE categorized 
as  retinal  vascular  occlusion  in  the  brolucizumab  6  mg  group  and  1  subject  (0.6%)  who  had  an  AE 
categorized  as  retinal  vascular  occlusion  in  the  aflibercept  2  mg  treatment  group  in  Study  B2302. 
However, in Study B2301 in the brolucizumab groups there were 2 subjects (1.1%) in the brolucizumab 
3 mg group and 1 subject (0.5%) who had an AE categorized as retinal vascular occlusion (and 0 subjects 
in the aflibercept 2 mg group). 
Table 47:  Ocular AESI for the study eye  in Study B2301  and Study B2302 (52 week  S-db) 
Adverse events  categorized under intraocular inflammation including retinal vasculitis 
In  the  52  week safety  database  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  at  least  1  event  categorized  under 
intraocular inflammation was higher  in the  pooled brolucizumab 6 mg  group (2.7%)  than in  the pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg  group (1.1%)  with  a risk difference of 1.6%  (95%  CI: −0.83-4.76).  4.7%  of subjects 
in  the brolucizumab 3  mg group of Study B2301  had an  event of intraocular inflammation. The PTs for 
the AEs which were reported under the category intraocular inflammation for the pooled brolucizumab 6 
group were uveitis, iridocyclitis, retinal vasculitis, iritis and eye inflammation.  
There were a total of 13 events in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 5 events in the pooled aflibercept 
2 mg group, and 17 events in the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study B2301. Most  events of intraocular 
inflammation  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity (10/13  in  the  brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  5/5  in  the 
aflibercept group, and 13/17  in the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study B2301). 
There  was  a  difference  between  the  overall  incidence  of  events  categorized  under  intraocular 
inflammation  between  Study  B2301  and  Study  B2302,  for  brolucizumab  6  mg  treatment  group  and 
aflibercept  2  mg  treatment  group  at  Week  52  (B2301:  3.7%  vs.  0.5%  for  brolucizumab  6  mg  vs. 
aflibercept, respectively; B2302: 1.7%  vs. 1.7%  for brolucizumab 6 mg vs. aflibercept, respectively). 
The  majority  of  the  subjects  in  the  brolucizumab  groups  with  at  least  1  event  categorized  under 
intraocular inflammation experienced the event within  28 weeks of starting  treatment (6/10  subjects in 
the  brolucizumab  6  mg  group,  2/4  subjects  in  the  pooled  aflibercept  group, and  7/9  subjects  in  the 
brolucizumab 3  mg group of Study B2301). 
Retinal vasculitis 
In the 52 week safety database all subjects who had at least 1 event categorized under the PT of retinal 
vasculitis were in Study B2301. There was 1 subject (0.3%)  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group vs. 
0 subjects in  the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group, risk difference for pooled brolucizumab 6  mg – pooled 
aflibercept 2  mg  of  0.3%  (95%  CI -7.08%-7.62%).  In  the  brolucizumab 3  mg  treatment  group  there 
were 3 subjects (1.6%)  with  a PT of retinal vasculitis. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 97/125  
Page 97/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most of the subjects in the brolucizumab groups with  at least 1 event categorized under the PT of retinal 
vasculitis  experienced  the  event  within  28  weeks  of  starting  treatment  (1/1  subject  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6  mg group and 2/3 subjects in the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study B2301). 
Adverse events  categorized as retinal vascular occlusion 
The  number of  subjects with  at  least 1  event categorized as  retinal vascular occlusion  in  the  52  week 
safety database was low:  2  subjects (0.5%)  in the  pooled brolucizumab 6  mg group, 1  subject (0.3%) 
in  the pooled aflibercept 2  mg group, and  2 subjects (1.1%)  in  the  brolucizumab 3 mg  group of Study 
B2301. 
Each  event  of  retinal  vascular occlusion  only  occurred once  for  each  subject.  Four  of  5  events  were 
considered to have been suspected to  be related to the  study treatment by the  investigator; 1 event in 
the  brolucizumab 6  mg group  was not  suspected  to be  related to  study  treatment  or the  IVT injection 
procedure by the investigator. Three of the 5 events (2 in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 1 in 
the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study B2301) occurred within  the  first 28 weeks of starting treatment. 
One subject in the brolucizumab 6 mg treatment group in Study B2302 had significant vision loss (BCVA 
score  of  0  letters  on  Day  115;  score was  75  letters  at  baseline).  This  decrease in  visual  acuity  was 
reported in  parallel to  the  retinal artery occlusion (serious  event with  reported term  of “central  retinal 
artery occlusion”). On the same day, the subject discontinued from the study due to the SAE. This subject 
had  retinal  vascular  disorder in  their  medical  history  and  this  may  have  contributed  to  the  event  of 
(central)  retinal  artery occlusion.  The investigator  assessed the  event  (retinal  artery occlusion) as  not 
suspected to be related to the study medication and/or injection procedure. 
Adverse events  categorized under endophthalmitis 
The number of subjects with  at least one event categorized under endophthalmitis in the 52 week safety 
database was low  and in  all but  1  subject occurred in the  first  28 weeks of treatment.  Five subjects  in 
total  had single events of endophthalmitis:  1 subject (0.3%)  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 2 
subjects (0.5%) in the aflibercept group, and 2 subjects (1.1%) in the brolucizumab 3 mg group of Study 
B2301. The risk difference between brolucizumab 6 mg and aflibercept was −0.3 (95% CI: −7.62-7.08). 
All  AEs categorized as endophthalmitis  were reported as serious. Two  events were considered to  have 
been related to the IVT injection procedure by the investigator (1  in the aflibercept 2 mg group and 1 in 
the  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  of  Study  B2301;  both  had  positive  bacterial  cultures:  Staphylococcus 
epidermidis and Streptococcus), 1 event was considered to have been related to the study treatment by 
the  investigator  (in  the  brolucizumab  3  mg  group  of  Study  B2301;  culture  test  was  negative),  and  2 
events were not  suspected to  have been related to  study  treatment  or  IVT injection  procedure by  the 
investigator (1 event in the  aflibercept 2 mg group (culture positive for Acinetobacter baumannii) and 1 
event in the brolucizumab 6  mg group (culture negative)). 
2-OTHER AESI 
•  Loading S-db 1  
The percentage of subjects with  at least one event categorized under the other safety topics of interest 
of  hypertension,  non-ocular  hemorrhage,  retinal  detachment  and  retinal 
tear  and  venous 
thromboembolic events were similar in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg and pooled aflibercept 2 mg group 
at Week 28. 
There were more subjects who had  events categorized as ocular arterial thromboembolic events in the 
pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group  (0.8%;  95% CI 0.17%-2.36%)  vs. 0%  (95%  CI 0-1.00%)  compared 
to  the  pooled  aflibercept 2  mg  group.  More  events categorized as non-ocular  arterial thromboembolic 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 98/125  
Page 98/125 
 
 
 
 
 
events were reported in subjects in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group: 2.4% (95% CI 1.06%-4.23%) 
compared to  the  pooled aflibercept  2  mg  group  1.4%  (95%  CI  0.27-  2.72%).  There  were  more AEs 
categorized as intraocular  pressure increased transient  in  the pooled brolucizumab 6  mg  group:  1.4% 
(95% CI 0.27%-3.26%)  vs. compared to the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group 0.5% (95% CI 0.00-1.66%). 
Table 48:  Other AESI in the  loading phase  (S-db 1) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 99/125  
Page 99/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 49:  Forest plot for other AESI including incidences and risk differences for pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg vs. pooled aflibercept 2 mg, by category  (S-db 1) 
•  52 weeks  S-db 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  at  least  one  event  categorized  under  the  other  safety  topics  of 
interest  of  hypertension,  non-ocular  hemorrhage, retinal  detachment  and  retinal  tear  and  venous 
thromboembolic events were similar in the  pooled brolucizumab 6 mg  and pooled aflibercept 2 mg 
group in the 52 week safety database. 
There was one additional event categorized as ocular arterial thromboembolic after Week 28  (Table 
50) in  the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg and pooled aflibercept 2 mg treatment  groups. 
The  subjects  who  had  events categorized  as  ocular  arterial thromboembolic  events  in  the  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg  group was 0.8% vs. 0.3%  in  the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group in  the  52 week 
safety database. Events categorized as non-ocular arterial thromboembolic events were reported in 
3.3%  of  subjects  in  the  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group  compared  to  the  2.4%  in  the  pooled 
aflibercept 2 mg group. There were more AEs categorized as intraocular pressure increased transient 
in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group: 1.9%  vs. 0.8%  in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 100/125  
Page 100/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 50:  Other AESI ion the maintenance  phase (S-db 3) 
Table  51:  Forest  plot  for  other  AESI  including  incidences  and  risk  differences  for  pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg vs. pooled aflibercept 2 mg, by category  (S-db 3) 
For other AESI such as non-ocular AE, few differences were observed at week 52. Due to low number of 
cases reported, interpretation  of differences is challenging. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 101/125  
Page 101/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypertension,  non-ocular  hemorrhage,  non-ocular  ATE  and  VTE  are  known  risks  of  anti-VEGF  by  IV 
formulation  used in  oncology.  In clinical  trials  and  in  post-marketing, cases are reported  with  IVT  but 
considering  confounding  factors  and  low  systemic  exposure  in  case  of  IVT  administration,  causal 
relationship is not established. These topics are listed in the RMP as important potential risks and will be 
closely monitored in post-marketing setting.  
Transient IOP increase is a common AE of all anti-VEGF by IVT route AND is related to IVT administration. 
A warning  in  the  product information  recommends monitoring  and special precautions.  IOP increase is 
also listed as important identified risk in the RMP and will be closely monitored in post-marketing setting. 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical chemistry 
HbA1c 
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
A box plot displaying the change from baseline for HbA1c for Loading pool 1 by treatment group (pooled 
brolucizumab 6 mg group and pooled aflibercept 2 mg group) and visit reported no differences between 
the treatment groups in terms of change from baseline in HbA1c. 
•  52 weeks  S-db 
A  box  plot  displaying  the  change from  baseline  for HbA1c  for  52  week  safety database  by treatment 
group  (pooled brolucizumab 6  mg  group and  pooled aflibercept 2  mg  group) and  visit, until  Week 52, 
reported no differences between the treatment groups in terms of change from baseline in HbA1c. 
Study B2301 and B2302 
Overall, in both  individual studies, there were no meaningful differences between the treatment groups 
for subjects with  clinically notable laboratory values at any visit. There were no differences between the 
treatment arms in terms of change from baseline for any of the laboratory parameters. 
Vital  signs, physical findings, and other observations related  to safety 
Blood pressure 
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
No  clinically relevant changes from Baseline to  Week 28 were observed in  any pooled treatment  group 
of the Loading safety database 1 for mean change from baseline in systolic blood, diastolic blood pressure 
and pulse rate. 
•  52 weeks  S-db 
No  clinically relevant changes from Baseline to  Week 52 were observed in  any pooled treatment  group 
of the week 52 safety database for mean change from baseline in systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood 
pressure and pulse rate. 
BVCA 
The number and percentage of subjects with  a loss in BCVA of ≥ 15 letters, ≥ 30 letters (study eye) from 
Baseline to  each  post-baseline  visit,  to  the  last  visit  and  maximum  loss  at  any  visit  were  studied  by 
treatment  group for the Loading safety database 1 and the  52 week safety database. During the  study 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 102/125  
Page 102/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period loss in  BCVA of ≥  15 letters  and/or ≥  30  letters was  similar between  the pooled  brolucizumab 6 
mg group and pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
There were  no  relevant differences between  treatment  groups (pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  group  and 
pooled aflibercept  2  mg group)  of  the  Loading  safety database 1  with  respect to  loss  in  BCVA of  ≥  15 
letters and ≥ 30 letters at all visits. The number of subjects with loss in BCVA ≥ 15 letters and ≥ 30 letters 
was very low  and similar between  treatment groups of  the Loading  safety database at  each visit. Note  
that loss in BCVA could be for any reason and not necessarily specifically related to being reported as an 
AE. 
From  Baseline to  the  maximum  loss at  any visit,  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  a  loss in  BCVA ≥  15 
letters and ≥ 30 letters was also similar across treatment groups of the Loading safety database 1 (Table 
52). 
Table 52:  Loss in best corrected visual acuity  (letters read):  number (%) of subjects who 
lost BCVA  in the study eye  from baseline  to the  maximum loss at any  visit (Loading S-db 1) 
•  52 weeks  S-db 
There were no meaningful differences between treatment groups (pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group and 
pooled  aflibercept 2  mg  group)  of  the  52  week  safety database  with  respect  to  loss  in  BCVA  of  ≥  15 
letters and ≥ 30 letters at any visit. The number of subjects with  loss in BCVA ≥ 15 letters and ≥ 30 letters 
was very low and similar between treatment groups of the  52 week safety database each visit. 
From  Baseline to  the  maximum  loss at  any visit,  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  a  loss in  BCVA ≥  15 
letters and ≥ 30 letters was also similar across treatment groups of the 52 week safety database 1 (Table 
53). 
A  small  proportion of  subjects  (2  subjects  in  Study  B2301  and  1  subject  in  Study  B2302)  who  had  a 
BCVA loss of ≥ 15 letters but  <  30 letters at  Week 52 compared to  baseline were also reported to  have 
had AESIs. One subject in the brolucizumab 6 mg group in Study B2302 with iridocyclitis and uveitis lost 
16  letters  compared to  baseline at  the  early exit  visit. One  subject in  the  brolucizumab 3  mg group  in 
Study B2301 with  2 events of iridocyclitis and 1 event of vitritis lost 22 letters from baseline at the Week 
52  visit. One subject in the  aflibercept 2  mg group in Study B2301  with  an SAE of endophthalmitis  lost 
29 letters from baseline at the early exit visit. 
There were 3  subjects (2  subject in Study  B2301 and 1  subject in  Study B2302)  who were reported to 
have had AESIs and had  a BCVA loss  of ≥ 30  letters  at Week 52  compared to  baseline. One subject  in 
the  brolucizumab 6  mg group in  Study  B2302  with  retinal  vascular occlusion had  lost 75  letters  at  the 
early exit  visit.  One subject in  the brolucizumab 3  mg group  in Study  B2301  with  endophthalmitis  had 
lost 74 letters at  the Week 52 visit. One subject in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 with  3 
events of iridocyclitis and 1 event of retinal vein thrombosis lost 39 letters from baseline at the Week 52 
visit. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 103/125  
Page 103/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 53: Loss in best corrected visual acuity (letters read): number (%) of subjects who lost 
BCVA  in the study eye  from baseline to the  maximum loss at any  visit (52 Week  S-db) 
IOP increase 
IOP was measured in  the study  eye pre-injection and/or post-injection  at  every scheduled visit  in both 
pivotal studies.  
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
The proportion of subjects with  observed pre-injection IOP ≥ 21mmHg  at 3 consecutive scheduled visits 
in the Loading safety database 1 was similar in both treatment groups (10 subjects (2.7%) in the pooled 
6 mg brolucizumab and 7 subjects (1.9%)  in pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
•  52 weeks  S-db 
The proportion of subjects with  observed pre-injection IOP ≥ 21mmHg  at 3 consecutive scheduled visits 
in  the  52  week  safety  database  was  the  same  in  both  treatment  groups  (10  subjects  (2.7%)  in  the 
pooled 6  mg brolucizumab and 10 subjects (2.7%) in  pooled aflibercept 2 mg group. 
Safety in special populations 
1-  Intrinsic factors 
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
Exposure to drug 
There  were  no  relevant  differences between  pooled  brolucizumab  6  mg  and  pooled  aflibercept  2  mg 
groups  in  exposure to  study  drug  from  Baseline  to  Week 28  across subgroups  by  age,  gender,  race, 
ethnicity,  baseline BCVA and baseline HbA1c. 
AE 
There were  no  clinically relevant  differences in  the  incidence of  ocular  AEs in  the  study  eye and  non-
ocular  AEs  from Baseline  to  Week 28  across subgroups  by  age,  gender, race,  and  ethnicity,  baseline 
BCVA, and baseline HbA1c. 
Serious AE 
There were no clinically relevant differences between pooled brolucizumab 6  mg and pooled aflibercept 
2 mg groups in the incidence of ocular SAEs in the study eye and non-ocular SAEs from Baseline to Week 
28 across subgroups by age, gender, race, and ethnicity,  baseline BCVA, and baseline HbA1c. 
•  52 week  S-db 
Exposure to drug 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 104/125  
Page 104/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no clinically relevant differences between pooled brolucizumab 6  mg and pooled aflibercept 
2  mg groups  in the  mean exposure to  study drug  at  Week 52  across subgroups by age,  gender, race, 
ethnicity,  baseline BCVA and baseline HbA1c. 
AE 
There were no clinically relevant differences between pooled brolucizumab 6  mg and pooled aflibercept 
2 mg groups in  the incidence of ocular AEs in  the study eye and non-ocular AEs from Baseline to  Week 
52 across subgroups by age, gender, race, and ethnicity,  baseline BCVA, and baseline HbA1c. 
Serious AE 
There were no clinically relevant differences between pooled brolucizumab 6  mg and pooled aflibercept 
2 mg groups in the incidence of ocular SAEs in the study eye and non-ocular SAEs from Baseline to Week 
52 across subgroups by age, gender, race, and ethnicity,  baseline BCVA, and baseline HbA1c. 
Study B2301 - Subgroup analyses of safety data by Japanese ancestry 
Safety data  for  the  Japanese subgroup  is  summarized in  Study  B2301  and  was  generally comparable 
with  that of the overall population  and subjects of non-Japanese ethnicity. 
2-  Extrinsic factors 
No subgroup analyses by extrinsic factors were performed. 
Immunological events 
In  Studies  B2301  and  B2302,  neither  the  pre-existing  anti-drug  antibodies  (ADA)  status  nor  the  pre-
existing nAb status of a subject had an impact on subsequent incidence of ocular AESIs. 
Based on the result of immunogenicity assessment with brolucizumab from both Study B2301 and Study 
B2302,  18.3%  of subjects  with  a boosted  or induced ADA status  had at  least 1  AESI in the  study  eye, 
while 1.1%  of subjects with  a negative or positive ADA status  with no boost had an AESI ( 
Table 54).  Also, in  Study B2301, 7/30  (23.3%)  and 6/32 (18.8%)  subjects with  an integrated induced 
or boosted ADA status,  in  the brolucizumab 3  mg and  6 mg  arms, respectively, experienced at least  1 
AESI in the  study eye. This compares with 3/148  (2.0%) and 1/143  (0.7%)  subjects, respectively, with 
negative  ADA  status  or  positive  ADA  status  with  no  boost.  Similarly,  in  Study  B2302,  2/20  (10.0%) 
subjects with  an integrated induced  or boosted ADA status had  at least  1 AESI in  the study  eye, while 
1/149  (0.7%)  subjects  with  negative ADA status  or  positive ADA  status  with  no  boost  had  at  least  1 
AESI in the study eye. While the incidence of AESI was higher in subjects with treatment-emergent ADA, 
however, in this population, most of the subjects (67/82 (81.7%))  with treatment-induced or treatment-
boosted ADA did not experience an AESI. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 105/125  
Page 105/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 54:  ADA status up to Week  52 and  incidence of AESI in the study eye 
A similar trend  was seen for  simple ADA positivity  as seen in Table 55;  4.4%  of ADA positive subjects 
and 1.6% of ADA negative subjects had an AESI. In Study B2301, 9/145 (6.2%) and 6/138 (4.3%) ADA-
positive (either pre-dose or post-dose) subjects treated with brolucizumab 3 mg and 6 mg, respectively, 
had at  least 1 AESI compared with  1/40 (2.5%)  and  1/43 (2.3%)  ADA-negative subjects, respectively. 
In Study B2302, in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm, 3/129  (2.3%) ADA-positive subjects had at least 1 AESI 
in the study  eye, while 0/42  ADAnegative subjects had an AESI in the study eye. The incidence of AESI 
was higher in subjects with  positive ADA status, however, the  vast majority (394/412  (95.6%))  of ADA 
positive subjects did not  experience an AESI suggesting that  the  mere presence of  ADA in and  of itself 
is not sufficient to  lead to an AESI. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 106/125  
Page 106/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 55:  ADA positivity and the incidence of AESI 
Regarding the nAb status, while no association with AESI is observed in subjects with a pre-existing nAb 
positive  status  or  in  subjects  with  only  negative  nAb  status,  an  association  is  observed  between 
treatment-emergent nAb status and AESI as seen in Table 56. 
In Study B2301,  8/40 (20.0%)  subjects in  the brolucizumab 3 mg arm and 6/46  (13%) subjects in  the 
brolucizumab 6 mg arm with  at least one positive post-dose nAb status,  experienced at least 1 AESI in 
the study eye. This compares with the 13 subjects in the brolucizumab 3 mg arm and 12 subjects in the 
brolucizumab 6  mg arm with  a pre-existing nAb  positive status  where 1/13  (7.7%)  and 0/12  subjects, 
respectively, experienced at least 1 intraocular AESI in the study eye. Similarly, 1/131 (0.8%) subjects 
in the  brolucizumab 3 mg arm and 1/122  (0.8%)  subjects in  the brolucizumab 6 mg arm, respectively, 
with only negative nAb status including those with a negative ADA status who by definition are considered 
nAb negative, experienced at least 1 AESI in the study eye. 
In Study B2302, 3/43  (7.0%) subjects in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm with  positive nAb status or a pre-
existing  nAb  positive status,  had  at  least  1  AESI in  the  study  eye while  no  subjects  out  6  with  a pre-
existing nAb positive status and no subjects out of 121 subjects in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm, with only 
negative nAb status (including those with a negative ADA who by definition are considered nAb negative) 
had an AESI in the study eye. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 107/125  
Page 107/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 56:  Integrated  nAb status and the  incidence of AESI 
However, as with treatment-emergent ADA, across both studies, while the incidence of AESI was higher 
in subjects with  at least one positive post-dose nAb status,  even in this  population, the vast majority of 
subjects, 112/129  (86.8%),  with  at  least one positive post-dose nAb positive status  did not  experience 
an AESI suggesting  that  the mere presence of nAb in  and  of themselves is not  sufficient  to  lead to  an 
AESI. 
Alternatively, instead  of looking specifically at  treatment-emergent  positive nAb  status,  an association 
can  also  be made  with  simple  nAb  positivity  (integrated  positive  nAb  status),  combining  the  subjects 
with  at least one positive post-dose nAb status and those with  pre-existing nAb positive status. As seen 
in  Table 56,  in  Study  B2301  out  of  53  subjects in  the  brolucizumab  3  mg  arm and  58  subjects  in  the 
brolucizumab 6  mg  arm with  at  least  one positive  post-dose nAb status  or a pre-existing  nAb positive 
status,  9/53  (17.0%)  and 6/58  (10.3%)  subjects, respectively, experienced at least 1  intraocular AESI 
in  the  study  eye. Similarly, in  Study B2302,  out  of 49  subjects  in  the  brolucizumab 6  mg  arm  with  at 
least one positive postdose nAb status or pre-existing nAb positive status,  3/49 (6.1%)  subjects had at 
least 1 AESI in the study eye. 
In conclusion: 
-  Pre-existing  anti-brolucizumab  antibodies,  whether  they  were  neutralizing  or  not,  did  not  have  an 
impact on subsequent incidence of AESIs. 
-  A  higher  incidence  of  AESI  was  observed  in  subjects  with  an  integrated  treatment-induced  or 
treatment-boosted ADA status.  A similar trend was seen for simple ADA positivity. 
- A higher incidence of AESI was observed in subjects with at least one positive post-dose nAb status. A 
similar trend was seen for those with  an integrated positive nAb status. 
-  While the  incidence of AESI was higher in  subjects with  positive ADA (but  only 4.4%  of  ADA positive 
subjects experienced an AESI), the  vast majority (95.6%)  of ADA positive subjects did  not  experience 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 108/125  
Page 108/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an AESI. Similarly, most  of the  subjects with  treatment-emergent  ADA (81.7%)  did not  experience an 
AESI, suggesting  that  the  mere presence of  ADA, or treatment-induced  or  treatment-boosted  ADA, in 
and of themselves is not  sufficient to  lead to  an AESI. Furthermore, since the  vast majority (95.6%)  of 
ADA positive subjects did not experience an AESI, ADA positivity (including  nAb positivity) alone cannot 
be used to  predict which  subjects might  develop an AESI. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No specific drug interaction  studies were performed with  brolucizumab. 
Use in pregnancy and breastfeeding 
Risk Summary 
There are no  adequate and well-controlled studies  of brolucizumab administration  in  pregnant women. 
The potential risk of use of brolucizumab in pregnancy is unknown. 
In  all clinical  studies included  in  this  submission  (Study B2301,  Study  B2302,  Study B2304  and  Study 
B2305)  all  women  of  childbearing  potential  (defined  as  women  physiologically  capable  of  becoming 
pregnant) were excluded from study participation unless they agreed to use highly effective methods of 
contraception. 
Up to Week 52, one pregnancy was reported in Study B2301 (1 subject in the brolucizumab 6 mg arm); 
the  subject  discontinued  study  treatment  as a  result  of the  pregnancy. Follow-up  information  on  this  
subject (post 52  week data cut-off) reported that the  subject gave birth following  emergency caesarian 
section. No birth  defect was reported in the  infant. 
A study  in  pregnant  cynomolgus monkeys did  not  indicate  any harmful  effects with  respect to  pre- or 
postnatal  development at  approximately 6-times  the  human systemic exposure based on  serum Cmax 
(see Animal data). 
Animal data 
In  an  enhanced  pre-  and  postnatal  development  (ePPND)  study  (TOX-R1670189-PPND)  in  pregnant 
cynomolgus  monkeys, brolucizumab  was  administered  to  all  animals  by  intravitreal  (IVT)  injection  to 
one  eye  at  doses  of  3  or  6  mg  once  every  4  weeks  until  delivery.  One  additional  injection  was 
administered  to  a  subset  of  animals  28  days  post-partum  and  had  blood  and  milk  collected  for 
toxicokinetic evaluations.  There was  no impact  of  IVT administration  of  brolucizumab on  embryo-fetal 
development,  pregnancy  or  parturition;  or  on  the  survival,  growth,  or  postnatal  development  of 
offspring.  This  represents an  exposure approximately 6-  times  the  human  exposure (based  on serum 
Cmax) at the  proposed clinical dose of 6 mg. 
However, VEGF inhibition  has been shown  to affect follicular development, corpus luteum function,  and 
fertility.  Based  on  the  mechanism  of  action  of  VEGF  inhibitors,  there  is  a  potential  risk  to  female 
reproduction and to  embryo-fetal development. 
Lactation 
It is unknown if brolucizumab is transferred into human milk after administration of brolucizumab. There 
are no  data  on the  effects  of brolucizumab  on the  breastfed child  or  on  milk production.  In  an  ePPND 
study,  brolucizumab  was  not  detected  in  the  maternal milk  or  infant  serum  of  cynomolgus monkeys. 
Because  of  the  potential  for  adverse  drug  reactions  in  the  breastfed  child,  breastfeeding  is  not 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 109/125  
Page 109/125 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended during treatment and for at least one month after the last dose when stopping treatment 
with  brolucizumab. 
Overdose 
No new information about overdose has been generated in support of this application. 
To date, there have been no reported cases of ‘overdose’ in humans related to the  use of brolucizumab 
as brolucizumab must be administered by a qualified ophthalmologist. 
Drug abuse 
There is no known  potential  for abuse of  brolucizumab considering that  as advised in  the current  CDS, 
brolucizumab must  be administered by a qualified ophthalmologist experienced in IVT injections. 
Withdrawal and rebound 
No studies have been conducted to assess withdrawal and rebound effects. 
Effects  on  ability to  drive  or  operate  machinery or  impairment of mental 
ability 
Patients may experience temporary visual disturbances after an intravitreal injection with brolucizumab 
and the associated eye examination, and should therefore be advised not to drive or use machinery until 
visual function has recovered sufficiently. 
Ocular AEs are described in detail above. 
Impact of COVID-19 on safety results in Study B2301 and Study B2302 
The  COVID-19 pandemic, caused  by severe acute  respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2  (SARSCoV- 2), 
was first identified by the WHO in Dec 2019.  Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, changes to the conduct of 
Study B2301  and Study  B2302 and  planned analysis were implemented  to ensure the  safety and  well-
being of study participants, and to enable study oversight and compliance with  the study protocol. 
Study B2301 
There  was  an  impact  of  COVID-19  pandemic  on  the  number  of  protocol  deviations  driven  by  under 
treatment.  Nevertheless, in  terms of  results, no  difference was  observed between  the  treatment  arms 
in  exposed/non-exposed and  impacted/non-impacted  subgroups.  A  total  of  2  subjects  (both  in  the 
brolucizumab 3  mg arm) reported COVID-19 infection  during  the study.  The analysis of safety data by 
COVID-19 exposed/non-exposed and  impacted/non-impacted  subgroups showed  generally robust  and 
comparable results with those observed for the overall population. 
Study B2302 
There  was  an  impact  of  COVID-19  pandemic  on  the  number  of  protocol  deviations  driven  by  under 
treatment  in this  study. Nevertheless, in  terms of results, no difference was observed between the two  
treatment arms in exposed and non-exposed groups. A total  of 2 subjects (1 in  the brolucizumab 6 mg 
arm and one in  the aflibercept 2  mg arm each treatment arm) reported COVID-19 infection during  the 
study,  which  was  fatal  for  the  subject  in  the  brolucizumab  6  mg  arm.  The  analysis  of  safety data  by 
COVID- 19  exposed and  non-exposed subgroups  showed  generally  robust  and  consistent  results  with 
the ones observed for the overall population. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 110/125  
Page 110/125 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Loading S-db 1 and 2  
-Ocular AE 
In  the  Loading  safety  databases  1  &  2,  at  Week  28,  a  total  of  11  subjects  in  all  treatment  groups 
experienced at least 1 AE in the study eye that led to permanent study drug discontinuation: 4 subjects 
(1.1%)  in the pooled brolucizumab 6 mg group, 3 subjects (0.8%) in the  pooled aflibercept 2 mg group 
and 4 subjects (2.1%) in the  brolucizumab 3 mg group in Study B2301 (Table 57). 
The PT  of the  AEs which  led  to  discontinuation  of  study treatment  were reported only  once in  Loading 
safety database 1 (at Week 28) apart from uveitis: 2 subjects (0.5%) in the  pooled brolucizumab 6 mg 
group, 1 subject (0.3%)  in  the pooled aflibercept 2  mg group and 0 subjects in the  brolucizumab 3 mg 
group in Study  B2301). In  addition, endophthalmitis  was reported as an AE leading to study  treatment 
discontinuation in 2 subjects (0.5%) in the pooled aflibercept 2 mg group and 0 subjects in either of the 
brolucizumab groups (Table 57). 
Table 57:  Ocular adverse events  leading to permanent  discontinuation in loading S-db 1&2 
-Non-ocular AE 
In Loading safety database 1, a total  of 9 subjects in  all treatment groups, experienced at least 1  non-
ocular AE  that  led to  permanent  study  drug  discontinuation:  2  subjects  (0.5%)  in  the  brolucizumab  6 
mg group, 4  subjects (1.1%)  in the  aflibercept 2 mg group  and 3 subjects (1.6%)  in  the brolucizumab 
3 mg group in Study B2301 (Table 58). There was a single occurrence of each AE with a specific preferred 
term only which  led the subject to permanently discontinue study treatment. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 111/125  
Page 111/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  58:  Non-ocular  adverse  events  leading  to  permanent  discontinuation in  loading  S-db 
1&2 
•  52 weeks  S-db  
-Ocular AE 
In the 52 week safety database a total  of 17  subjects in all treatment groups, experienced at least 1 AE 
in the study eye that led to permanent study drug discontinuation: 6 subjects (1.6%) in the brolucizumab 
6 mg group, 6 subjects (1.6%)  in the aflibercept 2 mg group and 5 subjects (2.6%)  in the brolucizumab 
3  mg group  in Study  B2301  (Table 59).  Uveitis  was the  most  frequently reported ocular AE leading  to 
permanent study drug discontinuation  (4  subjects overall, 3 subjects (0.8%)  in the  brolucizumab 6 mg 
group and 1 subject (0.3%)  in the  aflibercept 2 mg group. 
Table 59:  Ocular adverse events  leading to permanent  discontinuation in 52-week  S-db 
-Non-ocular AE 
In  the  52  week safety  database, a total  of  20  subjects in  all  treatment  groups, experienced at  least  1 
non-ocular AE that  led to permanent study drug discontinuation. A similar proportion discontinued to  at 
least 1  non-ocular AE in  all 3  treatment  groups: 8  subjects (2.2%)  in  the brolucizumab 6  mg group,  9 
subjects (2.4%)  in the aflibercept 2 mg group and 3 subjects (1.6%) in the brolucizumab 3 mg group in 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 112/125  
Page 112/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study B2301  (Table 60).  There was  a single occurrence of  each AE with  a specific preferred term only 
which led the subject to permanently discontinue study treatment. 
Table 60:  Non-ocular adverse  events  leading to permanent  discontinuation in 52-week  S-db 
Post marketing experience 
Brolucizumab has  been marketed as Beovu® since  the  IBD  of  07-Oct-2019  with  the  nAMD  indication. 
Total  post-marketing  patient  exposure based on  the  Beovu units  (vials/PFS)  sold  worldwide  since  the 
IBD of the product is estimated to be approximately 31,000 patient-treatment  years (PTY). 
Post-marketing data for brolucizumab in the treatment of nAMD is being submitted on a regular basis as 
PSURs (since IBD of brolucizumab; 07-Oct-2019). 
Literature  searches of safety findings with  brolucizumab treatment,  are performed and reviewed on an 
ongoing  basis  in  each  PSUR from  the  date  of  the  first  authorization  of  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
nAMD (in the US) on 07-Oct-2019  (IBD); the most recent PSUR is [PSUR 07-Apr-2020 to 06-Oct-2020]. 
No  new  safety findings related  to brolucizumab  were retrieved from published  peer-reviewed scientific 
literature or made available as unpublished manuscripts during the  reporting interval. 
Following  reports  of  post-marketing  AEs  of  ‘Retinal  vasculitis  and/or  retinal  vascular  occlusion’  with 
brolucizumab, Novartis confirmed an emerging safety issue during the reporting period of the PSUR (07-
Oct-2019  to  06-Apr-2020)  on 06-Apr-2020;  and the  following  actions were taken during  the  reporting 
period for the most recent PSUR [PSUR 07-Apr-2020 to  06-Oct-2020]: 
A safety label change was submitted  from 30-Apr-2020  onward  and is included  in the  PSUR (reporting 
period of PSUR 07-Apr-2020  to  06-Oct-2020).  The CDS was updated with  the new safety issue ‘Retinal 
vasculitis and/or retinal vascular occlusion’ under ‘Warnings and precautions’ and ‘Adverse drug reaction’ 
sections.  Additionally,  this  new  safety  topic  was  included  as  an  important  identified  risk  in  the  RMP 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 113/125  
Page 113/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(version 3.1)  during  the reporting period of PSUR 07-Apr-2020  to 06-Oct-2020.  Novartis performed an 
evaluation of  cumulative data  of  retinal vasculitis  and/or retinal  vascular occlusion in  the  PSUR (PSUR 
07-Apr-2020  to 06-Oct-  2020)  and  did not  find any new information or a change in  the severity of this  
identified risk. 
The  important  identified  risk  ‘Retinal  vasculitis  and/or  retinal  vascular  occlusion’  will  continue  to  be 
further monitored and characterized in subsequent PSURs. 
Apart from the new safety topic, leading to the safety label change described above a review of all data 
received during the PSUR interval reporting period in PSUR 07-Apr-2020 to  06-Oct-2020  did  not reveal 
any new or changing safety information for brolucizumab and is consistent with the information present 
in the current labeling documents. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, the benefit-risk assessment of brolucizumab remains positive 
in the approved indication of nAMD. 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  clinical  safety  analysis  is  based  on  two  phase  III  studies  (KESTREL  and  KITE)  which  assessed 
intravitreal  administration  of  brolucizumab  6mg  in  patients  with  visual  impairment  due  to  diabetic 
macular oedema  for 52  weeks. The  randomized controlled  study  design  allows  for  a  comparison  with 
intravitreal administration of aflibercept 2mg. Dosage of 3mg of brolucizumab was evaluated in only one 
study (KESTREL), thus comparison with other arms in more appropriate in KESTREL study than in pooled 
data.  
Patient  exposure 
The two studies enrolled 926  patients including 368  who received brolucizumab 6mg, 368 who received 
aflibercept 2mg and 190  patients who received brolucizumab 3mg in KESTREL study. 
Due to  similar design, data were pooled into three databases: two  for the loading phase (Sd-b 1 and 2) 
and  one  for  the  maintenance  phase  (Sd-b  3).  Two  databases were  used  for  the  loading  phase  since 
interval between  doses are different  for brolucizumab and aflibercept (6  and 4  weeks respectively). In 
the first one Sd-b 1, duration of treatment was similar for both arms (28 weeks) with different schedules 
of  injections  (most  patients  received 5  injections  for  brolucizumab  and  6  for  aflibercept)  and  in  the 
second  one  Sd-b  2,  duration  of  treatment  was  shorter  for  aflibercept  (20  weeks)  but  with  similar 
schedules of injections (most patients received 5 injections). 
The majority of patients  (>81%)  completed the  studies at  week 52  with  similar rates between groups. 
A slight  higher number of injections was reported in  aflibercept group (8.5 vs 6.9  in brolucizumab 6mg 
and 6.8 in brolucizumab 3mg) and could be explained by the different schedules of treatment during the 
loading phase but  also during the  maintenance phase (possibility of 12 weeks in brolucizumab group vs 
8 weeks which  was not  allowed by protocol in aflibercept group).  
The most reported reasons for discontinuation were subject decision (4.6% for brolucizumab 6mg, 4.2% 
for  brolucizumab  3mg  and  2.2%  for  aflibercept)  and  discontinuation  due  to  adverse event  (1.6%  for 
brolucizumab 6mg,  2.6% for brolucizumab 3mg and 2.2% for aflibercept). 
Patient  demographics and  baseline characteristics were consistent  across treatment  groups and reflect 
the  DME population  with  a population  younger than in  AMD population  (mean age of 63  years old with 
an  overall range  of  23  to  87).  Slightly  more  men  were included  (≈64%),  white  population  was  more 
represented (>77%)  as well as not Hispanic and Latino  ethnicity (>70%). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 114/125  
Page 114/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse event  (AE) 
Ocular AE 
Incidence  of  ocular  AE  was  similar  in  both  periods  between  groups  (in  the  loading  phase:  24.2%  in 
brolucizumab 6  mg vs  25%  in  aflibercept  at  week 28  and  21.2%  at  week 20  and  in  the  maintenance 
phase:  35.1%  in  brolucizumab  6mg  vs  34.0%  in  aflibercept).  The  most  commonly  reported  AE  was 
conjunctival haemorrhage in both periods with  similar rates between arms (in the  loading phase: 4.6%  
in brolucizumab 6  mg vs 5.7%  in aflibercept at week 28 and  4.9% at  week 20  and in  the maintenance 
phase:  5.7%  in  brolucizumab  6mg  vs  6.5%  in  aflibercept).  Higher  rates  reported  in  pooled  data  for 
brolucizumab  3mg  compared to  other  arms  due  to  study  effect  were  not  reported  in  KESTREL  study. 
Other frequently reported AE were vitreous floaters, eye pain,  vitreous detachment  and vision blurred, 
all listed ADR with  no significant differences between groups. 
AE of IOP increased, uveitis and iridocyclitis, the most frequently drug-related AE and related to IVT are 
also listed in the  product information. Other known injection-related risks were retrieved such as retinal 
detachment. 
Regarding  intraocular  inflammations,  as  for  AMD  indication,  more  AE  were  reported in  brolucizumab 
groups in  both periods (at week 52,  risk difference of 1.6% (95% CI -0.83%;4.76%)).  Most  cases were 
reported early after treatment initiation  and severity was mostly mild to  moderate. 
In both  periods, similar proportions of serious ocular AE were reported between  groups (in the  loading 
phase: 1.1%  in  brolucizumab 6mg vs 0.8%  in  aflibercept at  week 28  and 0.5%  at  week 20  and in  the 
maintenance phase: 1.6%  in brolucizumab 6mg  vs 1.9%  in aflibercept). Most  reported serious AE were 
retinal vasculitis and endophthalmitis. 
For  endophthalmitis,  which  is  associated with  intravitreal  administration,  similar  rates  were  reported 
between  groups  at  week  52  and  no  safety  issue  emerged.  Warnings  are  mentioned  in  the  product 
information  and  patient  educational  materials  are  available  to  ensure  that  patients  are  adequately 
informed about signs and symptoms of this sight-threatening AE. Preferential use of the pre-filled syringe 
would allow to reduce this  risk. 
Cases of  retinal  vasculitis and  retinal  vascular occlusion,  other  sight-threatening  eye  conditions  which 
emerged from US post-marketing setting  in  February 2020,  were reported (retinal vasculitis:  1 case in 
brolucizumab 6mg, 2 in brolucizumab 3mg vs 0 in  aflibercept group; retinal vascular occlusion: 2 cases 
in  brolucizumab  6mg,  2  in  brolucizumab  3mg  vs  1  in  aflibercept group).  In  one  case in  brolucizumab 
arm,  significant  vision  loss  was  associated.  Warnings  have  been  implemented  since  launch  through 
variation II/02 to alert about signs and symptoms of these AE. Risk factors associated retrieved from US 
retrospective real-world  studies  were also  implemented  through  variation II/08  such  as patients  with 
medical history of intraocular inflammation/retinal vascular occlusion in the year prior the treatment with 
Beovu, as well as an immune cause identified based on a mechanistic study. Immune cause retrieved is 
consistent  with  immunologic  data  reported  in  KITE  and  KESTREL  studies.  Finally,  other  product 
information  changes  were  implemented  through  variation  II/06  based  on  52-week  first  interpretable 
results  of  study  MERLIN  which  revealed  an  increased  incidence  of  IOI  and  related  adverse  events 
including  RV and  RVO  in  patients  with  every 4  weeks dosing  beyond the  “loading  phase”  in  nAMD. A 
DHPC was thereafter sent in November 2021  to alert about these new information. 
A potential higher risk in DME population of ocular arterial thromboembolic events including retinal artery 
occlusion compared to  AMD  patients  was questioned  due  to  almost comparable rates of RAO  reported 
(0.7%  vs  0.6%)  but  with  lower  duration  of  studies  for  DME  (52  weeks  vs  96  weeks)  and  few  cases 
reported  which  made  challenging  comparison  of  data.  However,  considering  an  immunologic  cause 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 115/125  
Page 115/125 
 
 
 
 
 
retrieved for this  event, a  higher risk in DME  patients  may not  be expected at  this  stage. This  concern 
will be further investigated in post-marketing setting through  PSUSA procedure. 
Non-ocular AE  
Incidence of non-ocular AE was similar in both periods between groups (in the loading phase: 49.5% in 
brolucizumab 6mg vs 51.1% in aflibercept and in  the maintenance phase: 64.1% in brolucizumab 6mg, 
67.7%  in  aflibercept).  Higher  rates  reported in  pooled  data  for  brolucizumab 3mg  compared to  other 
arms due to study effect were not  reported in KESTREL study. 
As for  AMD indication,  the  most  reported SOC was  Infections and  infestations  with  nasopharyngitis as 
the most reported AE, a common AE in elderly population and unrelated to brolucizumab, with  consistent 
rates across treatment groups. Hypertension was also frequently reported and similarly in both  groups.   
Regarding serious non-ocular AE, similar proportions were reported between groups in both periods (in 
the loading phase: 10.3%  in brolucizumab 6mg vs 12.5%  in  aflibercept and in the  maintenance phase: 
17.7%  in brolucizumab 6mg vs 20.1% in  aflibercept).  
Due to VEGF inhibition effect on microvasculature, hypertension as well as non-ocular haemorrhage and 
arterial and venous thromboembolic AE were particularly discussed as AESI. In most cases, patients had 
cardiovascular risk factors and none of them was assessed as related to the study drug. Considering low 
systemic  exposure in  case of  IVT  administration,  causal relationship  is  not  established.  These  AE  are 
listed in the  RMP as important potential  risks and are closely monitored.  
Immunogenicity 
As previously observed in AMD indication, a correlation between ADA status and occurrence of intraocular 
inflammation was retrieved since a higher incidence of ocular AESI was observed in patients with positive 
ADA and positive  nAb status.  No  impact of  pre-existing antibodies  (neutralizing  or not)  was  retrieved. 
However, ADA status  cannot  be used to  predict  any ocular AESI occurrence including  retinal  vasculitis 
and retinal vascular occlusion since most patients with  positive ADA -induced or boosted- or positive nAb 
status  did not  experience any ocular AESI. Additional investigations will  be performed through  ongoing 
clinical trials. 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
Overall, as for  AMD indication,  the  safety  profile of brolucizumab  seems similar  to  aflibercept, already 
marketed, except for intraocular inflammations which  are more reported with  brolucizumab.  
2.5.3.  PSUR cycle  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the  list of Union reference dates (EURD list)  provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC  and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.5.4.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communication 
A DHPC was sent in  November 2021 in the  context of variation II/06 to alert health professionals about 
new  information  available  related  to  IOI  including  retinal  vasculitis  and  retinal  vascular  occlusion 
(immune  cause retrieved, risk factors  and increased risk with  treatment  interval  less than  8  weeks in 
the maintenance phase). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 116/125  
Page 116/125 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.5.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU)  726/2004, Beovu (brolucizumab) is included and remain 
in the additional monitoring list as a new active substance which, on 1 January 2011, was not contained 
in any medicinal product authorised in the EU. 
Therefore, the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product  is subject to  additional monitoring  and that  this  will  allow  quick identification  of new 
safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Risk management plan 
In the initial  submission, the  MAH submitted  version 4.0 to address changed related to  the new 
indication. In the second round of assessment, the MAH submitted  an updated RMP v8.0, that  is the 
consolidated version of RMP v7.0 approved through variation EMEA/H/C/0004913/II/0008  and 
incorporating also the changes made for the addition of DME as an indication originally in  RMP v4.0.  
Summary of significant changes in this RMP:  Key changes made compared to RMP v3.0 are: 
•  Product information section is updated with  proposed changes in the SmPC for the DME 
indication. 
•  Safety data from Study RTH258B2301  (KESTREL) and Study RTH258B2302  (KITE) has been 
added to  support the new indication of visual impairment due to DME. 
•  Clinical trial exposure data and risk characterization data have been updated. 
•  Updates are made to targeted follow-up checklists for the important identified risk “Intraocular 
inflammation” and “Retinal vasculitis and/or retinal vascular occlusion” 
• 
Information about patient educational material has been updated to cover the DME indication. 
Part Major  changes compared to RMP  v 3.0 
•  Part I  
Part I “Product overview” has been updated to  include the  new targeted indications  and dosage in EEA. 
Information about current dosage is updated in  line with SmPC. 
•  Part II  
-Module SI has been revised to include epidemiology of the  indication and target population 
-Module  SII has been revised to include  key safety findings from non-clinical studies  based on  recently 
available non-clinical data 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 117/125  
Page 117/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Module SIII has been revised to include clinical trial exposure from study KITE and KESTREL 
-Module SIV has been revised to include key exclusion criteria of pivotal DME studies 
-Module SV has been revised to update post-authorization exposure data based on current PSUR 
-Module  SVII has been revised to update  presentation of important  identified and potential  risks based 
on DME pivotal studies. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 118/125  
Page 118/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II Safety  specification SVIII.1:  Summary of safety  concerns 
Table Summary of safety concerns 
•  Part III  to V 
No changes have been made 
In  Part  V  regarding  the  educational  material,  the  MAH  accepted  to  add  a  separate  chapter 
describing  intraocular  inflammation  including  retinal  vasculitis  and/or  retinal  vascular 
occlusion and identified risk factors as described in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
•  Part VI:  Summary of the  risk management plan has been updated to reflect the corresponding 
changes made to Parts I and II of the RMP. 
The Summary of the  risk management  plan has been  updated accordingly. 
•  Part VII  No changes were made to  Annex 1 to Annex 3 
Annex 4: Updates are made to targeted follow-up checklists for the important identified risk “Intraocular 
inflammation” and “Retinal vasculitis and/or retinal vascular occlusion” 
No changes were made to  Annex 5 
Annex  6: Patient guide description have been updated to include the DME indication and editorial 
changes. 
Annex  7 has been updated with brief statistical  description and outputs,  newly included internal 
references and literature citations. 
Annex  8 was updated accordingly to  reflect changes from previous version of RMP. 
The Annexes  have  been  updated accordingly besides Annex 6.  
3.1.  Overall conclusion on the RMP 
RMP version 8.1 (DME)  is acceptable. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 119/125  
Page 119/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
4.1.  Therapeutic Context 
4.1.1.  Disease or condition 
Diabetic  macular edema (DME)  is  characterised by  exudative  fluid  accumulation  in  the  macula.  When 
the area of swelling involves the center of the macula, the fovea, it leads to clinical impairment of vision. 
DME  is  a  frequent  manifestation  of  diabetic  retinopathy  (DR)  and  is  the  major cause of  vision  loss  in 
patients with  DR. Patients can develop DME at any stage during the progression of DR. 
The  pathophysiological  processes begin  with  chronic  hyperglycaemia, and  interplay  between  vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and inflammatory mediators. 
Estimates  of  the  prevalence of  DME  in  patients  with  Type I and  Type II  DM  range between  4.2%  and 
7.9%,  and 1.4%  and 12.8%, respectively (Lee et al 2015). 
4.1.2.  Available therapies and unmet medical need 
The  current  treatment  options  for  patients  with  visual  impairment  secondary to  DME  are: intravitreal 
anti-VEGF  (which  includes  ranibizumab  (Lucentis®),  aflibercept  (Eylea®)),  laser  photocoagulation, 
intravitreal corticosteroids, or intravitreal corticosteroid implants. 
However, intravitreal anti-VEGF treatments can be a significant burden to patients. Thus, there is a need 
to develop therapies with  a longer effect. Additionally, in the context where the efficacy of an anti-VEGF 
can reduce over the time and requires a switch to another anti-VEGF together with the fact some patients  
have a poor treatment  effect to available therapies lead a need of additional alternatives therapies. 
4.1.3.  Main clinical studies 
The  clinical  study  program  for  the  sought  indication  consists  of  2  randomized,  double-masked, 
multicenter,  active-control  (versus  aflibercept  2  mg)  studies,  RTH258-B2301  (KESTREL  study)  and 
RTH258-B2302  (KITE  study)  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  brolucizumab  administrated 
intravitreally. The total  studies duration was 100  weeks. The main  difference in study design were that 
B2301 study  included a brolucizumab 3 mg  treatment arm in addition to  the 6 mg arm, while the  6 mg 
dose only has been investigated in B2302 study. 
Patients in  brolucizumab arms (3 mg and 6 mg) received 5 loading doses every 6 weeks (q6w) (Day 0, 
Week 6,  Week 12,  Week 18  and Week 24), followed by maintenance regimens every 12 weeks (q12w) 
or  every  8  weeks  (q8w)  depending  on  the  disease  activity  status.  But  patients  in  aflibercept  arms 
received  monthly  5  loading  doses  (Day  0,  Week  4,  Week  8,  Week  12  and  Week  16),  followed  by 
maintenance regimen every 8 weeks (q8w), and were not  allowed to  switch on a q12w regimen. 
4.2.  Favourable effects 
In both pivotal Phase III studies, brolucizumab 6 mg demonstrated non-inferiority to aflibercept 2 mg in 
the  treatment  of the  neovascular AMD.  The  primary endpoint  was  met  in  FAS as  well  in  PPS  analysis 
with  consistent outcomes. 
In  B2301  study, regarding FAS  population,  the  mean change  in BCVA from Baseline at  Week  52,  with 
95%  CI, for Brolucizumab 6  mg and  Aflibercept were respectively 9.2  [8.1,  10.3]  and 10.5  [9.4,  11.7] 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 120/125  
Page 120/125 
 
 
 
 
 
letters.  In  pairwise  ANOVA,  the  non-inferiority  of  Brolucizumab  6  mg  compared  to  Aflibercept  were 
demonstrated with a LS mean difference -1.3  letters (95% C.I.: -2.9,  0.3; p<0.001). 
In  B2302  study, regarding FAS  population,  the  mean change  in BCVA from Baseline at  Week  52,  with 
95%  CI,  Brolucizumab  6  mg  and  Aflibercept  were  respectively  10.6  [9.3,  11.9]  and  9.4  [8.1,  10.7] 
letters.  In  pairwise  ANOVA,  the  non-inferiority  of  Brolucizumab  6  mg  compared  to  Aflibercept  were 
demonstrated with a LS mean difference 1.2  letters (95% C.I.: -0.6, 3.1;  p<0.001). 
Primary outcomes were supported  by the  first  key secondary endpoint,  average change  in  BCVA from 
Baseline over the period Week 40 through Week 52. 
Analysis of the  other secondary endpoints related to  anatomical parameters, in particular change from 
baseline in  CSFT  over the  period Week 40  through  Week 52  and  presence of SRF  and/or IRF  at  Week 
52, provided supportive outcomes, giving reassurance on the efficacy of brolucizumab. Likewise, Quality 
of Life analysis were also supportive. 
Regarding  the  assessment  of  the  q12w  regimen,  second  key  secondary endpoint  estimated  that  the 
probability, with 95% CI, for a subject on brolucizumab 6 mg to be maintained on the q12w  regimen up 
to  the  disease  activity  assessment  at  Week  52  was  55.1%  [46.9,  62.5]  in  B2301  study  and  50.3  % 
[42.5,  57.7] in B2302  study. 
Finally,  analysis of  the proportion of  subjects with  ≥2-step  improvement in DRSS at Week 52  shown a 
non-inferiority of brolucizumab 6mg versus aflibercept with an estimated difference of 4.0% (95% CI: -
0.6,  8.6;  p<0.001).  The  proportion  estimates,  with  95%  CI,  were  28.9%  [24.6,  34.3]  in  the 
brolucizumab 6  mg arm and 24.9% in  the aflibercept 2 mg arm [20.3, 29.4] 
4.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
Absence of data makes difficult the generalization of the results in non-naïve-treatments 
subpopulation. Additionally, given that patients  with  active PDR are excluded of the  study, the 
proportion of patients  with  a PDR was very limited making difficult the  generalisation of the results in 
this subset. 
The Applicant additional results showing that the HbA1c level seems stable in the brolucizumab and 
aflibercept groups over the study duration, reassuring adequate controlled diabetes. The downside is 
that  there is no data in patients  with poorly controlled diabetes (also in  safety). 
The non-inferiority  margin of  4 is  considered too broad and  therefore not  acceptable. However, this  is 
overruled by the actual  findings, as the  lower limit  of the confidence interval is within  the  3 letter  non-
inferiority margin that  has been accepted. 
The  multiple  testing  procedure for  the  pooled  non-inferiority  analysis of  the  DRSS endpoint  based  on 
both  studies  DR2301  and  DR2302  is  questionable.  Nevertheless,  the  pooled  analysis  is  deemed 
acceptable but requires a careful interpretation of the results, based on both achieved significance levels 
and  their  clinical  relevance. Additionally,  a  further  discussion  on  the  adequacy of  the  control  of  the 
diabetes  in  patients  enrolled  in  the  studies,  and  its  potential  impact  on  the  DRSS results  is  awaited. 
Finally, a sustained effect over time has to be shown; 24-Month  data for DRSS analysis are thus needed. 
4.4.  Unfavourable effects 
The safety profile  of brolucizumab 6  mg in DME  patients  seems overall similar to  the  one described in 
the initial  application for AMD population.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 121/125  
Page 121/125 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage of  3mg  was  studied  in  KESTREK trial  and  no  significant  difference was  reported  compared to 
dosage of 6mg in terms of ocular, non-ocular AE and SAE. 
Most common AE reported with brolucizumab 6mg pertained to SOC Eye disorders and the most reported 
AE was conjunctival haemorrhage (4.6% in the loading phase and 5.7% at 52 weeks). Similar rates were 
reported in aflibercept group. 
Other AE related to  injection procedure were reported at week 52 such as endophthalmitis (0.3%),  IOP 
increased (1.9%),  retinal  pigment epithelial  tears and  retinal detachment  (0.3%)  and  cataract  (3.5%) 
with  no difference compared to aflibercept group. 
As for AMD indication, intraocular inflammation was more reported in  brolucizumab group compared to 
aflibercept (2.7% vs 0.8%). Most of these events were mild and moderate and were observed early after 
treatment initiation.  Most frequently PT terms retrieved were uveitis, iridocyclitis, retinal vasculitis, iritis 
and eye inflammation.  
Four cases of retinal vascular occlusion which is an ophthalmological emergency were also reported with 
brolucizumab  in  the  study  eyes  including  one  case  with  a  significant  vision  loss  versus  1  case  in 
aflibercept arm. These AE are not listed in the product information of other anti-VEGF by IVT route. They 
have been  identified  and  listed  in  the  context  of  initial  application  in  AMD  indication.  But  few  months 
after, in February 2020,  an increase of incidence and severity emerged from US post-marketing setting 
and additional warnings were thus  implemented into  the product information. These AE were also listed 
in  the  RMP  as  important  identified  risks  and  further  investigations  were  pursued.  Risk  factors  were 
thereafter identified from US retrospective real world studies  and a higher risk in patients  with  every 4 
weeks dosing beyond the “loading phase” in nAMD based on MERLIN  study was retrieved. 
In the  context of initial  application,  a correlation was made between intraocular inflammation  and ADA 
status since a higher incidence was observed in patients with positive ADA status. Converging data were 
reported in DME studies between ADA status and ocular AESI including intraocular inflammation, retinal 
vasculitis and retinal vascular occlusion. However, since most patients  with positive ADA or positive nAb 
status did not experience any ocular AESI, immunologic tests cannot be used to predict their occurrence.  
Based  on  a  mechanistic  study,  an  immunologic  cause  of  intraocular  inflammation  including  retinal 
vasculitis and retinal vascular occlusion was identified in August 2021  by the Applicant. This topic will be 
further monitored in PSUR and in ongoing clinical trials 
4.5.  Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
Systemic safety profile is still unknown  especially ATE, VTE, hypertension and  non-ocular haemorrhage 
which are known AE of anti-VEGF by IV route. No major difference was observed between brolucizumab 
and aflibercept groups in DME studies despite low reporting rates which do make the comparison difficult 
to  assess. Considering low  systemic exposure, a  relationship  has  not  been established.  These  AE  are 
listed in the  RMP as important potential  risks and will be closely monitored. 
4.6.  Effects Table 
Table 1.  Effects Table for brolucizumab 6 mg in the treatment  of adult patients with visual 
impairment due to diabetic macular edema  (Studies B2301 and B2302) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 122/125  
Page 122/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 
Short 
descriptio
n 
Unit  Broluci
zumab 
6mg 
Afliberc
ept 
2mg 
Uncertainties /  
Strength of 
evidence 
References 
Favourable  Effects 
Change from 
baseline in 
BCVA at Week 
52 
Primary 
endpoint 
(95% CI) 
First  key 
secondary 
endpoint 
(95% CI) 
Average 
change in BCVA 
from Baseline 
over the period 
Week 40 
through Week 
52 
Lette
rs 
(EDT
RS) 
Lette
rs 
(EDT
RS) 
9.2 
(8.1, 
10.3) 
10.6 
(9.3, 
11.9) 
9.0  
(7.9, 
10.0) 
10.3 
(9.1, 
11.5) 
10.5 
(9.4, 
11.7) 
9.4 
(8.1, 
10.7) 
10.5  
(9.4, 
11.5) 
9.4 
(8.2, 
10.6) 
Incidence  % 
Incidence  % 
Unfavourable  Effects 
Conjunctival 
haemorrhage 
Endophtalmitis, 
IOP increased,  
and retinal 
detachment 
and retinal tear 
Intraocular 
inflammation 
Incidence  % 
5.7 
0.3 
1.9 
0.3 
6.5 
0.5 
0.8 
0.5 
2.7 
1.1 
Retinal 
vasculitis 
Incidence  % 
0.3 
0.0 
Retinal vascular 
occlusion 
Incidence  % 
0.5 
0.3 
  ATE 
  VTE 
  Hypertension 
Non-ocular 
haemorrhage 
Incidence  % 
3.2 
0.5 
10.6 
2.2 
2.4 
0.3 
9.2 
2.4 
B2301 
study 
B2302 
study 
B2301 
study 
B2302 
study 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
- Consistent with  PPS 
analysis 
- Supported by other 
secondary endpoints 
(BCVA and anatomical 
parameters) 
But: 
- Need of long term 
data, in particular to 
support q12w regimen 
- generalization of the 
results in the type I 
diabetes subpopulation 
and in non-naïve-
treatments 
subpopulation need 
further discussion 
Most  reported AE 
AE related to 
injection procedure 
AE reported with  a 
higher incidence 
compared to 
aflibercept 
Sight-treathening  AE 
associated with 
brolucizumab and not 
listed with  other anti-
VEGF drugs by IVT 
route 
Sight-treathening  AE 
associated with 
brolucizumab and not 
listed with  other anti-
VEGF drugs by IVT 
route 
Potential AE listed 
with  anti-VEGF by IV 
route 
Not  confirmed due to 
low systemic 
exposure 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 123/125  
Page 123/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
Pooled safety data at  52 weeks 
4.7.  Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
4.7.1.  Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
Brolucizumab 6  mg  demonstrated  a  similar benefit  profile with  the  comparator, aflibercept.  The  non-
inferiority was largely met  in  the primary and the  first  key secondary endpoint  at Week 52.  Moreover, 
analysis  in  FAS  population  and  PPS  population  were  consistent.  Additionally,  endpoints  related  to 
anatomical parameters and Quality of Life were supportive of the  demonstration of the benefice. 
Ocular safety profile of brolucizumab 6mg in DME patients appears to be similar to the one identified in 
AMD  population.  The  most  commonly  reported  AE  was  conjunctival  haemorrhage  with  similar  rates 
between aflibercept and brolucizumab arms. 
Other AE known to be induced by anti-VEGF agents by IVT route and related to injection procedure were 
also reported with  similar rates between  both  groups such  as endophthalmitis,  IOP increase, cataract, 
and retinal tear/detachment. 
As for AMD indication, incidence of intraocular inflammation including  retinal vasculitis was higher than 
in  aflibercept group.  Retinal vascular occlusions cases were also more reported in  brolucizumab arms. 
Warnings  have  been  implemented  in  the  product  information  and  an  immunologic  cause  has  been 
retrieved. 
As with  other anti-VEGF  drug  products  administered by intravitreal injections,  uncertainties  remain on 
potential  role  of  brolucizumab  in  systemic  AE  occurrence,  especially arterial  thromboembolic  events, 
venous  thromboembolic  events,  hypertension and  non-ocular  haemorrhage which  are  known  risks  of 
anti-VEGF  drugs by IV route due to pharmacological plausibility.  Similar rates were reported compared 
to aflibercept but due to low systemic exposure, the relationship is not  confirmed. 
4.8.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Brolucizumab 6 mg is positive. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 124/125  
Page 124/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted  data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the following 
change: 
Variation  accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
Change(s)  to  therapeutic  indication(s)  -  Addition  of  a 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
new  therapeutic  indication  or  modification  of  an 
approved one 
Extension  of  indication  to  include  treatment  of  visual  impairment  due  to  DME  for  Beovu;  as  a 
consequence, sections 4.1,  4.4,  4.8, and 5.1  of the SmPC are updated.  The Package Leaflet is updated 
in accordance. Version 8.1 (DME)  of the  RMP has also been submitted. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of  the data  submitted  with  the  variation, amendments to Annex(es) I and IIIB and to  the Risk 
Management Plan are recommended. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/23630/2020 
Page 125/125  
Page 125/125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
