SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which  have  been  finalised  before  31  July  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after 
this date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Beromun  contains  the  active  ingredient  tasonermin  also  known  as  tumour  necrosis  factor  alfa-1a  or 
TNFα-1a. Tasonermin is a non-glycosylated cytokine produced from E.coli using rDNA technology.  
The  protein  consists  of  three  identical  polypeptide  chains  of  157  amino  acids  combined  to  form  a 
compact,  bell-shaped  homotrimer.    The  individual  subunits  have  a  relative  molecular  mass  each  of 
17,350 daltons. Beromun is provided as a sterile, lyophilised powder in single-use vials containing 1 
mg  of  TNFα-1a.    The  product  is  intended  for  reconstitution  with  sterile  physiological  saline  to 
produce a final concentration of 0.2 mg/ml TNFα-1a.  
The sequence of the 157 amino acid proteins is as follows: 
Pro-Ser-Glu-Gly-Leu-Tyr-Leu-Ile-Tyr-Ser- 
1  Val-Arg-Ser-Ser-Ser-Arg-Thr-Pro-Ser-Asp- 
Lys-Pro-Val-Ala-His-Val-Val-Ala-Asn-Pro- 
11 
21  Gln-Ala-Glu-Gly-Gln-Leu-Gln-Trp-Leu-Asn- 
31  Arg-Arg-Ala-Asn-Ala-Leu-Leu-Ala-Asn-Gly- 
41  Val-Glu-Leu-Arg-Asp-Asn-Gln-Leu-Val-Val- 
51 
61  Gln-Val-Leu-Phe-Lys-Gly-Gln-Gly-Cys-Pro- 
Ser-Thr-His-Val-Leu-Leu-Thr-His-Thr-Ile- 
71 
81 
Ser-Arg-Ile-Ala-Val-Ser-Tyr-Gln-Thr-Lys- 
91  Val-Asn-Leu-Leu-Ser-Ala-Ile-Lys-Ser-Pro- 
101  Cys-Gln-Arg-Glu-Thr-Pro-Glu-Gly-Ala-Glu- 
111  Ala-Lys-Pro-Trp-Tyr-Glu-Pro-Ile-Tyr-Leu- 
121  Gly-Gly-Val-Phe-Gln-Leu-Glu-Lys-Gly-Asp- 
131  Arg-Leu-Ser-Ala-Glu-Ile-Asn-Arg-Pro-Asp- 
141  Tyr-Leu-Asp-Phe-Ala-Glu-Ser-Gly-Gln-Val- 
151  Tyr-Phe-Gly-Ile-Ile-Ala-Leu 
Tasonermin = homotrimer 
The clinical indication for Beromun is - as an adjunct to surgery for subsequent removal of the tumour 
so as to prevent or delay amputation, or in the palliative situation, for irresectable soft tissue sarcoma 
of the limbs, used in combination with melphalan via mild hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion (ILP). 
The posology and method of administration for Beromun in conjunction with melphalan is: 
Beromun:  
Upper limb: 3 mg total dose by isolated limb perfusion 
Lower limb: 4 mg total dose by isolated limb perfusion 
Melphalan: 
Melphalan  dosage  should  be  calculated  according  to  the  litre-volume  method  of  Wieberdink 
(Dosimetry in isolation perfusion of the limbs by assessments of perfused tissue volume and grading of 
toxic tissue reactions. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol 1982; 18: 905-910) to a maximum dose of 150 mg. 
13 mg/litre perfused upper limb volume 
10 mg/litre perfused lower limb volume 
This  treatment  should  be  undertaken  in  specialised  centres  by  surgical  teams  experienced  in  the 
management  of  limb  sarcomas  and  ILP  procedure,  with  an  intensive  care  unit  readily  available  and 
with the facilities for continuous monitoring for drug leakage into the systemic circulation. 
1/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beromun should be administered by mild hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion. The perfusion circuit 
(roller  pump,  oxygenator  with  integrated  reservoir,  heat  exchanger,  connecting  tubing)  should  be 
prepared  prior  to  surgery  and  primed  with  700  to  800  ml  of  perfusate,  with  haematocrit  of  0.25  to 
0.30. 
Perfusion  level  should  be  chosen  to  adequately  encompass  affected  tissue  (external  iliac,  common 
femoral,  femoro-popliteal,  popliteal,  axillary  and  brachial  being  accepted  routes)  and  catheters 
introduced. External heat loss from  the limb should be prevented  by application of thermal  blankets 
and limb temperature continuously monitored by thermistor probes inserted into subcutaneous tissue 
and  muscle. Hand and foot, if not affected, should  be  protected  by Esmarch  bandages. A  tourniquet 
should be applied to the proximal limb. 
After connection of the limb to the isolated circuit, flow rate should be adjusted to 35 to 40 ml/litre 
limb volume/minute and leakage from limb to systemic circulation checked using a radioactive tracer 
technique (see section 4.4). Adjustment of flow rate and tourniquet may be required to ensure leakage 
from perfusion circuit to systemic circulation is stable (systemic level of radioactivity has reached a 
plateau)  and  does  not  exceed  10  %.  Beromun  should  only  be  administered  if  leakage  is  less  than 
10%. 
Once  the  temperature  in  the  distal  subcutaneous  tissue  of  the  limb  has  reached  >38°C  (but  not 
exceeding 39°C), and pH of the perfusate is between 7.2 and 7.35, Beromun should be injected as a 
bolus  into  the  arterial  line  of  the  circuit.  After  30  minutes  perfusion  of  Beromun  alone,  melphalan 
should be added as a bolus into the reservoir of the circuit, or slowly into the arterial line of the circuit. 
The temperature should then be increased to >39°C (but not exceeding 40°C) in two different sites of 
measurement  in  the  tumour  area.  The  duration  of  the  perfusion  including  melphalan  should  be  60 
minutes. Thus, the duration of the total perfusion should be 90 minutes. 
At the end of the perfusion, the perfusate should be collected into the reservoir while washout fluid is 
added  simultaneously  to  the  circuit  and  circulated  at  the  same  flow  rate  of  35  to  40  ml/litre  limb 
volume/minute.  Washout  should  be  continued  until  the  colour  of  the  perfusate  is  clear  (pink, 
transparent). 
Safety and efficacy in children under the age of 16 has not been established. 
Surgical resection of the tumour remnant should be undertaken whenever possible. When necessary a 
second ILP can be considered 6-8 weeks after the first ILP. 
The use of melphalan in combination with Beromun 
The  clinical  indication  for  Beromun  foresees  its  use  in  combination  with  melphalan.  The  scientific 
basis  for  the  combination  has  been  justified  (see  overview  of  clinical  aspects,  below).  However,  a 
parental  formulation  of  melphalan  is  authorised  in  most  but  not  all  EU  member  states.    In  these 
member  states  a  parental 
through  named 
patient/compassionate  use  schemes.  The  CPMP  did  not  raise  objections  to  the  authorisation  of 
Beromun.  Isolated  limb  perfusion  under  hyperthermic  conditions  with  melphalan  plus  Beromun  is  a 
treatment for specialists, and treatment units will be located in a few centres.  
formulation  of  melphalan  may  be  available 
2. 
Chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Composition, Product Development and Product Manufacture. 
Beromun is provided as a sterile, lyophilised powder in single-use vials containing 1 mg of TNFα-1a.  
The  vials  contain  tasonermin  (1  mg),  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate  dihydrate,  disodium  hydrogen 
phosphate  dodecahydrate,  human  albumin,  and  sodium  chloride  (arising  from  the  buffer  used  in  the 
preparation of the active ingredient, see below). The product is intended for reconstitution with sterile 
physiological saline to produce a final concentration of 0.2 mg/ml TNFα-1a.  
The dossier also included information on a 0.2 mg vial preparation, which was used for clinical trials 
but is not intended for marketing. The product is identical to the 1 mg market product in every respect 
apart  from  volume  fill.  Information  is  provided  on  this  product  strength  in  support  of  the  1  mg 
product. In response to a question posed by the CPMP, the applicant provided further information on 
2/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  formulation  used  in  preclinical  studies.  Most  of  the  batches  used  in  preclinical  studies  did  not 
contain albumin. The analytical data provided on these batches (including on storage) was reassuring. 
The  above  composition  describes  the  nominal  product  content.    In  practice,  the  vials  contain  a  7% 
overfill which, when dissolved in 5.3 ml of saline, results in a final solution strength of 0.2 mg/ml and 
permits withdrawal and administration of 5 ml of product. 
In response to a question posed by the CPMP, the applicant clarified the amount of sodium chloride 
present in the formulation, and also justified the slight hypertonicity after reconstitution.  
Beromun is labelled in  mg units rather than biological activity units. The Expert argues that protein 
determination  can  be  carried  out  more  precisely  than  can  biological  activity  determination  by 
cytotoxicity assay or strength by ELISA.  As the substance is well characterised by a range of physico-
chemical methods, it is felt that filling of product into final containers on a mass unit basis is justified. 
Active ingredient TNFα-1a is produced as a solution in phosphate buffer with sodium chloride.  The 
choice of a lyophilised product is justified on the basis that solutions are unstable unless stored frozen.  
From the discussion provided, it would appear that development of a suitable lyophilised product has 
proved  to  be  a  formidable  challenge.    A  stabilising  agent  is  necessary  and  of  the  variety  of  agents 
tested,  human  albumin  found  to  be  best  in  combining  acceptable  stabilisation,  product  stability  and 
pharmaceutical  characteristics  pre-  and  post  reconstitution.    Stability  studies  using  ion  exchange 
chromatography  (HPIEC)  show  that  higher  concentrations  of  human  albumin  are  necessary  for 
acceptable stability profiles and an optimal concentration of has been chosen on the basis of superior 
lyophilisation cakes. 
In response to a questions posed by the CPMP, the applicant provided additional data to support the 
pH  range  of  the  phosphate  buffer,  and  to  confirm  that  the  level  of  albumin  chosen  as  stabiliser  is 
adequate.   
Preservatives are unnecessary as the product is for single use only. 
All  manufacturing  operations  for  Beromun  take  place  at  Bender  and  Co.  GesmbH,  Austria.  Solvent 
ampoules are  prepared, filled  and  sterilised by Nycomed Austria  GmbH  but labelled  by Bender and 
Co GesmbH.  Details of the manufacture of the 0.9% saline solvent ampoules are provided. 
TNFα-1a  bulk  solution  is  diluted  to  the  required  concentration  with  a  dilution  buffer  consisting  of 
phosphate buffer, human albumin  and  WFI.   A  placebo solution  is prepared  and passed through the 
0.22  µm  sterilising  filter.    The  formulated  bulk  solution  is  then  filtered  through  this  same  0.22  µm 
membrane filter and filled immediately into sterile vials.  The vials are lyophilised, sealed and stored 
at 2° to 8°C.  
In response to questions posed by the CPMP, the applicant provided a more detailed description of the 
manufacturing  method  particularly in  relation  to  the  in-process  controls,  equipment  used,  conditions 
for thawing of the unformulated bulk, and the method of calculation of the amount of buffer salts. The 
applicant also tightened the bioburden limit for the pre-filtration solution.  
Validation  data  was  provided  on  filling  accuracy  and  precision,  aseptic  media  fills,  validation  of 
cleaning  of  filtration  equipment,  container-closure  integrity  and  validation  of  bacterial-retention 
capabilities of the sterile filters. In response to questions posed by the CPMP, the applicant provided 
further information on the lyophilisation process and the sterilisation by filtration step. 
Control of Starting Material 
The  active  ingredient  is  presented  as  a  filtered  phosphate  buffered  solution.  Several  analytical 
techniques  are  used  to  test  the  active  ingredient.  The  techniques  employed  include  chromatographic 
methods and electrophoretic methods. A bioassay is employed.  
In response to questions posed by the CPMP, the applicant improved the criteria for acceptance in the 
SDS-PAGE test. The limits of the specifications were reviewed and tightened. 
Development Genetics 
The assembly of the plasmid expression construct and the E.coli production strain has been described 
in sufficient detail. 
3/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
MCB and WCB have been tested for genetic stability after storage at -60°C or below. Results show 
that  MCB  and  WCB  meet  specifications  after  5  and  3  years  storage  respectively.  Due  to  the  very 
limited supply, no more direct testing will be performed on MCB.  It is intended that expiration dating 
of the MCB will be extended whenever the WCB is analysed and released again.  Given the identical 
specifications for both cell banks, the proposal can be accepted.  
Genetic stability was tested during production. Samples from MCB, WCB, from the end of a standard 
fermentation and from the end of an extended fermentation have been investigated. Genetic stability of 
the production strain and  expression construct have  been investigated  by DNA agarose gel  analysis, 
restriction  mapping,  DNA  sequence  analysis  and  determination  of  plasmid  copy  number.  Plasmid 
alterations  or  losses  were  not  observed  at  any  stage.    In  addition,  average  growth  rates  and 
fermentation  yields  for  the  extended  fermentation  run  gave  comparable  results  to  the  standard 
production run. 
Details of the preparation of the MCB have been provided. Details of the preparation of WCB from 
MCB  have  been  performed  at  Bender  &  Co.  The  anticipated  rate  of  usage  of  the  WCB  is  at  least  
20  years.  In  response  to  a  question  form  the  CPMP;  additional  information  was  provided  on  the 
acceptance criteria for cell banks. 
Fermentation 
One  fermentation  batch  =  harvest  from  one  fermentation,  which  yields  the  required  quantity  of  cell 
paste to be used for purification. No blending occurs at any stage of the process. 
In-process controls are described for the various fermentation steps and both upper and lower limits 
given.  Growth profiles for typical fermentations together with extended fermentation run are provided 
showing  consistency of the process.  A description of  major  processing and associated equipment is 
provided and cleaning procedures are briefly described.  
A comprehensive list of all raw materials used in fermentation operations together with specifications 
is provided.  The materials are compendial grade where appropriate and sample certificates of analysis 
are provided for non-compendial substances. In the case of animal-derived materials, it is considered 
that the Commission Decision of 30.7.97 on the prohibition of the use of material presenting risks as 
regards  transmissible  spongiform  encephalopathies  as  well  as  the  requirements  of  the  Note  for 
Guidance  on  Minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform  encephalopathy  via  medicinal 
products CPMP/BWP/877/96 are met.   
In  response  to  questions  posed  by  the  CPMP,  the  applicant  provided  further  information  on  the 
rationale, performance and control of the fermentation process. The equipment used was described in 
more detail. 
Down-Stream Processing 
The purification process is multistep. Pooled samples obtained after the final gel permeation column 
step  are  diluted  with  deionised  water,  filtered  and  stored.  It  is  stated  that  after  lysis  and 
homogenisation of the cell paste, the majority of the DNA and unwanted proteins are precipitated by 
the  addition  of  polyethyleneimine.  Thereafter,  the  five  different  chromatographic  steps  remove 
different impurities based on the properties of hydrophobicity and/or charge and/or size. In the original 
dossier submitted an in-depth discussion for the rationale for inclusion of each of the various steps is 
not provided (Expert justifies this on the basis that standard purification techniques are being used). In 
response to questions posed by the CPMP the applicant provided further information on the rationale 
for the purification strategy with reference to the protein structure and properties of tasonermin. In the 
initial  dossier submitted in-process  controls for the purification  process  were  not clearly  laid  out. In 
response  to  questions  posed  by  the  CPMP,  the  applicant  provided  further  information  on  in-process 
controls.  Limits  for  microbial  bioburden  were  clarified.  The  conditions  for  the  reuse  of  some 
chromatography  columns  have  been  given.  In  addition,  the  applicant  provided  further  details  of  the 
equipment used during down-stream processing. 
Reprocessing does not occur at any stage of the purification process.  This is considered acceptable. 
4/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Characterisation and Analytical Development 
Natural TNFα consists of a primary structure of 157 amino acids with a disulphide bridge occurring 
between cysteine at positions 69 and 101.  The secondary structure reflects the all-β protein class.  The 
protein  exhibits  high  thermodynamic  stability  and  unfolded  subunits  can  fold  and  associate  to  form 
native, biologically active TNFα.  The 3D structure of the molecule is a bell-shaped trimer with each 
subunit  in  the  trimer  forming  a  “sandwich”  structure  of  the  two  β-pleated  sheets  each  composed  of 
antiparallel β-strands.  TNFα is not glycosylated. 
The recombinant TNFα-1a has  undergone an extensive battery of characterisation tests.  The results 
presented  support  the  conclusion  that  the  recombinant  variant  is  identical  to  TNFα  obtained  from   
HL-60 cells and as described in the literature. In response to a question from the CPMP the applicant 
provided  further  information  on  the  pI  of  tasonermin.    As  TNFα-1a  contains  no  methionine  amino 
acid  residues  and  is  not  glycosylated,  the  possible  post-translational  modifications  are  related  to  the 
single disulphide bond, deamidation of asparagine and glutamine, proteolytic degradation, N-terminal 
heterogeneity and TNFα-1a forms with uncleaved leader sequences. To date no peptide with the cyclic 
imide isoform or TNFα-1a forms with uncleaved leader sequences have been found.  
Biological  and  immunological  characterisation  of  TNFα  is  quite  widely  quoted  in  the  literature  and 
references given in the dossier. The major biological activity is regression and necrosis of transplanted 
tumours  in  mice  as  well  as  cytotoxicity  for  several  in  vitro  cell  lines  e.g.  rat  embryo  fibroblasts, 
murine  L929,  L-M-,  WEHI/3,  EMT-6  and  FELC  cells.    The  company  has  chosen  a  bioassay  using 
murine connective tissue L-M cells in serum-free medium based on the ability to increase sensitivity 
to TNFα-1a through use of actinomycin D.  The ELISA method for immunogenicity testing employs 
highly specific antibodies,  which  are  capable  of  discriminating  between TNFα and TNFβ  and show 
minimal cross-reactivity. 
Justification  has  been  provided  for  the  choice  of  analytical  methodologies  and  the  validation 
documentation  has  addressed  suitability  of  the  various  methods  for  use  for  both  unformulated  bulk 
drug substance as well as formulated finished product.  The finished product is formulated with HSA, 
which, by masking peaks in LC techniques and bands in IEF and PAGE testing, can severely hamper 
the testing of molecular integrity and stability.  The results of the validation testing show indeed that 
HSA  interferes  in  HPSEC  and  SDS-PAGE  determinations  and  these  methods  are  only  suitable  for 
testing  of  the  bulk  drug  substance.    The  methods  are  retained  however  in  the  finished  product 
specification  for  identification  testing.    HPIEC  on  the  other  hand  does  not  show  interference  from 
HSA and is shown suitable for finished product release and stability testing. 
In  response  to  a  question  posed  by  the  CPMP,  the  applicant  provided  further  information  on  the 
analytical methodologies employed to characterise the active ingredient used in preclinical and clinical 
trials.  The  applicant  has  agreed  to  review  the  specifications,  as  further  experience  is  gained,  as  a 
follow-up measure. 
In 1994, the international standard Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha, human IS 87/650 became available 
against  which  the  previous  internal  company  standard  was  calibrated  in  the  bioassay  method.    This 
resulted in the following relation 4.9x107 U/mg = 4.2x107 IU/mg. Present and future internal company 
standards will be recalibrated at least every two years against the international standard. 
Process Validation and Impurities 
Validation  of  the  fermentation  process  is  demonstrated  through  the  provision  of  data  for  several 
production runs together with 1 extended production run, showing that yields at harvest, yields of cell 
paste, cell density at harvest and TNFα-1a yields at harvest are consistent.  
In response to questions from CPMP the applicant provided additional data on the consistency of the 
yields during down-stream processing. 
Concerning  host  cell  DNA  removal,  the  applicant  provided  supplementary  information  to  show  the 
consistency of the level of removal of DNA, and clarified the methodology used to detect DNA 
In  response  to  a  question  posed  by  the  CPMP,  the  applicant  provided  supplementary  information  to 
demonstrate the clearance of endotoxinand host cell protein.  
5/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In response to questions  posed  by the CPMP, the applicant provided further  batch analysis data and 
provided additional information on batches of active substance produced at Bender and Genentech.  
Excipients 
All excipients are of Ph.Eur. grade and are stated to be additionally tested for endotoxin content.  
The information provided on human albumin was considered satisfactory.  
Packaging Material 
Vials and stoppers comply with Ph.Eur specifications. Specifications for vials, stoppers and overseals 
are presented. The information is acceptable. 
Control Tests on the Finished Product 
The applicant has provided specifications for the finished product. In response to questions posed by 
the CPMP, the applicant clarified the acceptance limits and reviewed the limits in the light of  batch 
analyses.  
Stability of the Active Substance 
Stability data have been provided for six batches of unformulated bulk TNFα-1a.   
Based  on  these  data,  the  proposed  storage  periods  of  3  months  at  2-8°C  or  24  months  at  -70°C  are 
acceptable. 
Stability of the Finished Product 
The proposed shelf-life is 36 months at 2-8°C. 
Data for 6 batches of 0.2 mg/container product and 6 batches of 1 mg/container product manufactured 
by Bender have been presented.  
In  response  to  questions  from  the  CPMP,  the  applicant  provided  further  information  to  their 
investigations  to  remove  HSA  prior  to  performing  analytical  tests.  However,  this  was  not  feasible. 
Further  information  the  stability  after  reconstitution  was  presented.  Information  was  presented  to 
explain  some  anomalous  results  in  the  bioassay  and  the  levels  of  a  deamidated  species  in  some 
batches. 
Freeze-thaw and 4°C to 20°C cycling studies indicate no adverse effects under the storage conditions 
tested although very small changes are noted in the HPIEC profiles.  The studies will continue until   3 
years are collected. 
The results obtained for the finished product reflect those seen with bulk active substance TNFα-1a.  
Overall the results are supportive of the shelf-life proposal. The applicant has agreed to provide further 
stability data as a follow-up measure to confirm and support the shelf life.  
Stability of the reconstituted solution has been examined by HPIEC.  Samples examined after 1, 6, 21 
or 48 hours showed no deterioration, but were degraded after 1 week. 
Solvent Ampoules 
The  solvent  provided  for  reconstitution  of  BEROMUN  is  0.9%  saline  presented  in  5  ml  glass 
ampoules  and  manufactured  by  Hafslund  Nycomed  Pharma  AG,  Austria.  In  response  to  a  question 
posed by CPMP a shelf life for the solvent ampoules was set. The shelf-life for the saline ampoules is 
set at a maximum of 5 years.  For the purposes of combining saline ampoules with Beromun, which has 
a shelf-life of 3 years, only those saline ampoules, which are less than 2 years old, will be used in the 
combined packs.  
Conclusion 
The applicant has agreed to some follow-up measures (letter dated 17 November1998). The quality of 
Beromun is considered to be acceptable.  
6/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  non-clinical  documentation  is  primarily  based  on  studies  originally  undertaken  to  support 
systemic multi-dose therapy of malignant diseases. Only few studies are carried out to investigate the 
intended combination treatment. 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  related  to  the  proposed  indication  are  documented  in  a  vast  number  of 
publications. TNFα-1a has a direct cytotoxic action, it is toxic to the tumour vasculature and activate 
unspecific  and  specific  immune  responses.  Combination  of  TNFα  with  cytotoxic  drugs  or 
hyperthermia  improves  the  efficacy.  The  primary  pharmacodynamic  effect,  i.e.  tumour  necrosis,  is 
shown  in  a  clinically  relevant  model,  i.e.  ILP.  In  respect  to  the  clinical  documentation,  it  may  be 
considered  that  no  studies  are  presented  to  examine  the  expected  optimum  ratio  and  dose  of  the 
combination. 
 TNFα-1a induces a number of secondary pharmacological effects in animals, of which the changes in 
the  cardiovascular  systems  are  considered  to  be  the  most  important.  Qualitatively,  the  safety 
pharmacological effects observed were in line with those observed after systemically administration of 
TNFα to man. No secondary pharmacology studies are carried out with the combination. Hypotension 
is regarded as the main cardiovascular side effect. Dopamine is proposed as a vasopressor agent; no 
studies  are  carried  out  on  the  effects  of  dopamine  or  other  vasopressor  agents  on  TNFα-1a  induced 
hypotension. 
Single  iv  dose  toxicity  of  TNFα-1a  was  examined  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  Rhesus  monkeys. 
Hypotension  was  the  main  effect  in  Rhesus  monkeys.  Repeated  iv  dose  toxicity  of  TNFα-1a  up  to  
13  weeks  has  been  evaluated  in  rats  and  Rhesus  monkeys.  Haematological  changes  as  well  as 
alterations  of  liver  and  kidney  functions  were  the  main  adverse  effects  observed  following  repeated 
administration of TNFα. Neither single dose nor repeated dose toxicity studies are presented to show 
the effects of the combination. 
No  reproduction  toxicity  studies  were  carried  out.  TNFα-1a  has  been  assessed  in  the  Ames  test, 
micronucleus  test  in  mice,  and  in  UDS  test  in  rat  hepatocytes  in  vitro.  No  evidence  of  mutagenic 
potential  was  observed  in  these  tests.  TNFα-1a  is  given  in  combination  with  melphalan,  which  is  a 
mutagenic and teratogenic alkylating agent. 
In  response  to  questions  posed  by  the  CPMP  the  applicant  provided  further  explanations  for  the 
relevance  of  the  preclinical  studies  already  performed  to  support  the  optimum  ratio  and  dosages  of 
tasonermin  and  melphalan  in  the  clinic.  The  applicant  also  provided  further  information  on  the 
significance of the different biological activities of murine and human TNF alfas in respect to general 
pharmacodynamics and toxicology findings. In addition, the applicant provided further information to 
clarify  the  pharmacodynamic  interaction  between  TNF  alfa  and  drugs  (such  as  NSAIDs)  affecting 
prostaglandin synthesis. 
The inherent problems in extrapolation of animal model data of human TNFα to the human situation 
should  be  taken  into  account,  and  it  is  considered  that  the  safety  documentation  of  the  combination 
therapy relies on the clinical documentation.  
In  terms  of  the  ecotoxicity  and  the  environmental  risk,  tasonermin  (a  protein)  is  not  considered  to 
generate any concerns. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Epidemiology and treatment of Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) of the limb 
STS  is  an  uncommon  malignancy,  comprising  about  0.6%  of  newly  diagnosed  cancers  and  the 
estimated,  age  adjusted  incidence  is  approximately  1-2/100  000.  In  about  60%  of  the  patients,  the 
tumour  occurs  in  the  extremities.  At  the  time  of  diagnosis,  about  90%  of  the  patients  are  free  from 
metastatic spread. About 10% of patients with STS of the limb are destined for amputation or severely 
debilitating surgery. Based on these figures (2/100 000 x 60% x 10%), the estimated amputation rate 
would  be  about  0.1/100  000.  It  is  therefore  considered  reasonable  to  conclude  that  the  proposed 
7/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indication  for  use,  ”limb  salvage  in  patients  with  STS”,  is  rarely  encountered.  Besides  being 
uncommon,  STS  has  a  heterogeneous  histology  with  15  main  entities,  and  prognosis  is  supposed  to 
depend  on  several  factors,  e.g.  tumour  size,  histologic  grade,  site  (proximal  vs.  distal),  depth  of 
penetration, presence of necrosis. The rarity of the indication put certain restraints on possible clinical 
developmental  programs.  To  document  convincingly  in  clinical  trials  the  ”added  value”  of  all  three 
components  (hyperthermia,  TNF  alpha  and  melphalan),  and  more  than  the  feasibility  of  the  chosen 
schedules would simply not be possible. 
Surgery  (with  or  without  (neo)adjuvant  radiation)  is  the  principle  mode  of  treatment.  Wide  local 
excision in conjunction with adjuvant radiation therapy results in local control results in the range of 
80%  or  greater.  Radiation  alone  is  an  alternative  in  medically  inoperable  patients  or  in-patients 
refusing recommended surgery. In-patients with large tumours, doses of more than 70 Gy are needed. 
STS  is  moderately  sensitive  to  conventionally  administered  (combination)  chemotherapy  and  in 
advanced disease the overall response rate is about 20-50%. 
Clinical pharmacology  
Pharmacodynamics 
It  is  well  recognised  that  TNFα  might  induce  haemorrhagic  necrosis  in  tumours  but  the  exact 
mechanism  of  action  is  not  known.  Endothelial  damage,  cytokine  release,  effects  on  adhesion 
molecules,  and  immunological  effects  as  well  as  a  direct  cytotoxic  effect  to  tumour  cells  are  all 
mechanisms  that  may  contribute  to  the  overall  effect  on  some  tumours.  Some  data  suggest  that  the 
microvasculature of tumours is the main target of TNF and is the first event to take place.  
The  applicant  has  included  a  selection  of  unpublished  reports  and  bibliographic  publications  to 
describe the pharmacodynamics of TNFα relevant for the sought indication, STS. Also included are a 
number of dose-finding studies with IV administration, which could be relevant as systemic leakage 
during ILP might be responsible for serious adverse events.  
Phase I/II trials with TNFα used systemically in-patients with cancer (IV, SC, IM routes) 
Seven trials have been submitted (6 with TNF alone and one combining TNF with IFNγ). Antitumour 
activity was minimal with no response or progressive disease as the most common outcome in-patients 
with different advanced solid tumours. Some minimal responses were observed in single trials. None 
of these trials included patients with STS. 
In  all  studies  TNFα  had  a  transient  dose-dependent  effects  on  WBC  counts,  which  dropped 
significantly 30 minutes to 2 hours after administration and returned to normal within the first 24-48 
hours.  This  effect  was  suggested  to  be  caused  by  release  of  leukocyte  adhesion  molecules  causing 
adhesion  to  endothelial  walls.  Immunological  effects  included  increase  in  β2-microglobulin, 
neopterin, IFNγ levels and some acute phase reactants. Mild anaemia was seen after repeated dosing. 
 The highest IV dose used was 400 µg/m2 as a 30 min infusion twice a day for 5 days every second 
week  for  a  total  of  8  weeks  (Eur  J  Cancer  1991;  27:856-63,  Volume5,  IV.A).  With  this  regimen  
150  µg/m2  was  well  tolerated.  Chills  and  fever  were  seen  in  almost  all  patients  at  all  dose  levels  
(10-400 µg/m2). Other symptoms were headache, myalgia, fatigue, local skin reactions and anorexia. 
Hypotension was dose-dependent in most studies and this symptom is dose limiting. At the extreme 
the hypotensive effect might mimic the septic shock syndrome.   
With a daily SC regimen the maximum tolerated dose is 50-75 µg/m2. Asthenia was dose limiting. The 
MTD for IV or IM administration is 150-200 µg/m2.  
The combination of TNFα (50 µg/m2 IV) and IFNγ (100 µg SC) is more toxic. Two patients out of 16 
with  advanced  colorectal  cancer  had  serious  AE,  one  had  acute  renal  failure,  and  one  had  severe 
thrombocytopenia. Leukopenia, anaemia, and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory findings.  
It was considered that these findings are well known characteristics of the toxicity profile for TNFα. 
The  data  may  be  of  limited  informative  value  for  the  posology  and  safety  sections  of  the  SPC. 
Leakage from the ILP system might produce some of these above-mentioned symptoms. For efficacy 
the value of these data is doubtful. From the information provided it appears that TNFα as single agent 
8/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
had  no  antitumour  effect  that  could  be  exploited  clinically.  This  is  in  keeping  with  textbooks  on 
medical oncology.  
Pharmacokinetics 
From older studies investigating the pharmacokinetics of TNF after systemic administration (SC, IM 
and  IV)  there  are  indications  of  non-linear  kinetics  with  increasing  AUC  and  decreasing  clearance 
with increasing doses. 
In the pivotal study (U97-2049), TNF alpha concentrations in human serum were measured by a two-
step sandwich solid phase enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). This method uses affinity-
purified  polyclonal  rabbit  anti-TNF-α  antibodies  as  solid  phase  capture  antibodies  and  peroxidase 
labelled  monoclonal  murine  anti-TNF-α  antibodies  as  detector  antibody.  The  precision  (Between-
assay:  5.3%  at  1000  pg/ml  and  13.5%  at  50  pg/ml)  and  accuracy  (-2%  to  2%)  of  the  method  were 
within acceptable limits. The limit of quantitation, 31.6 pg/ml, has been established based on precision 
and accuracy. Three freeze-thaw cycles did not effect the stability of TNF-α. Samples diluted in foetal 
bovine serum (FBS) to assay range (LOQ up to 2000 pg/ml) can be stored at -20°C up a year. TNF-α 
is not stable at 4, 20 or 37°C. Cross-reactivity was not observed with 74 µg/ml TNF-β, 1 mg/ml hGH, 
100 µg/ml interferon-γ and 4.5 mg/ml E. coli lysate. The method has been acceptably described and 
validated. 
The estimate of the volume of distribution varies with dose. Following an intravenous bolus dose of 35 
and  150  µg/m2  the  mean  estimates  were  55  l  and  17  l,  respectively.  There  is  no  information  on  the 
elimination  pathways  of  TNF  alpha.  Following  intravenous  administration  of  35  and  150  µg/m2 
clearance values were estimated to approximately 2 and 0.5 l/min. The terminal half-life is fairly short, 
being around 20-30 minutes at 150 µg/m2 and shorter at lower doses. The data indicate that there is a 
non-linear  component  in  the  pharmacokinetic  characteristics,  resulting  in  a  systemic  exposure  that 
increases more than in proportion to dose. 
For assessment of systemic exposure, 51 patients were analysed. Blood samples were collected from 
the  systemic  circulation  both during ILP and  after restoration  of  circulation to the isolated  limb and 
from  the  ILP  circulation  circuit.  Detection  of  TNF  during  ILP  in  the  systemic  circulation  indicated 
leakage. Two methods were used to assess leakage, radiolabelled albumin added to the ILP circuit and 
the ratio of AUC in the systemic circulation/AUC in the circuit at the end of ILP for TNF. The relation 
between leakage and AUC (ng.h/ml) is summarised in table below: 
N 
Leak < 2%*  31 
20 
Leak > 2% 
 4 
Leak > 10% 
51 
All patients 
* radiolabelled albumin method 
In perfusion circuit 
Mean (SE) 
5133 (332) 
3883 (412) 
2916 (439) 
4643 (270) 
In plasma during ILP 
Mean (SE) 
8.2 (5.1) 
172 (109) 
631(531) 
72 (43.7) 
In plasma after ILP 
Mean (SE) 
19.3 (9.1) 
104 (32.3) 
252 (119) 
52 (15) 
These AUC values could be compared with an old study investigating the pharmacokinetics after SC 
IM or IV systemic administration of TNF. The study also used an ELISA technique but it can be not 
be evaluated whether the assays are identical. Therefore, the results may not be directly comparable.  
It was concluded that although pharmacokinetics are limited but most importantly the data show that 
all patients will be exposed to systemic effects of TNF, and that AE will be more frequent and severe 
with  increasing  level  of  leakage  during  ILP.  The  albumin  method  might  underestimate  the  level  of 
leakage but the clinical data indicate that the ILP procedure is fairly well tolerated even if the dose of 
TNF is high. The derivation of the leakage values based on the albumin method was not completely 
clear. A time component together with the actual raw data (radioactivity measurements) was therefore 
requested to explain and justify the method. 
9/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical experience 
Efficacy  
One important characteristic for all 4 clinical trials, submitted in the original dossier, is highlighted by 
the  Independent  Review  Committee:  Approximately  20%  of  the  patients  included  in  the  ILP 
programme  were  not  considered  as  candidates  for  imminent  amputation  or  other  debilitating  limb 
surgery. Therefore, the individual trial efficacy data are interpreted with caution and that the Report 
from  Independent  Review  and  integrated  summary  of  efficacy  (see  below)  should  constitute  the 
“pivotal” efficacy data set. 
Description of ILP technique with TNFα, Melphalan and mild hyperthermia 
The  technique  is  described.  The  dose  of  melphalan  should  preferably  be  based  on  both  the  body 
weight  and  limb  volume  methods.  Based  on  body  weight  the  upper  limb  should  perfused  with  
0.6-1.0 mg/kg BW, and the lower limb with 1.0-1.4 mg/kg (maximum dose for the arm 70 mg and for 
the leg 140 mg). The dose may be underestimated in muscular (skinny) persons, and overestimated in 
fat persons. Limb volume may either be calculated directly (immersion of the limb in a water tank) or 
indirectly by a computer program. The recommended dosage is 13 ml/l perfused upper limb volume, 
and  10-ml/l  lower  limb  volumes.  The  volume  method  may  overestimate  the  dose  in-patients  with 
peripheral obesity (mostly women). The TNF dose is a total of 3 mg/arm or 4 mg/leg. It recommended 
that  the  patient  receive  antipyretic  medication  with  paracetamol  prior  to  ILP.  The  procedure  is 
performed in general anaesthesia with mechanical ventilation. The patient should be heparinized with 
200 IU/kg prior to surgery and occlusion of the vessels. The isolated limb is perfused with a flow rate 
of 35-40 ml/l limb volume/min at 40o on the arterial side. The oxygen saturation should be kept above 
60%. Beromun is given first as a bolus into the arterial line, 30 minutes later melphalan is injected into 
the  integrated  reservoir  of  the  perfusion  circuit  or  slowly  into  the  arterial  line.  After  a  total  of  
90 minutes of perfusion, the wash-out procedure is started (1-2 litres for the arm, and 3-6 litres for the 
leg)  and  is  continued  until  the  colour  of  the  perfusate  is  clear  in  appearance.  During  the  wash  out 
period the oxygen supply to the limb is interrupted. The maximum duration of limb anoxia should not 
exceed 20 minutes. 
Leakage  into  systemic  circulation  is  monitored  with  precordial  scintillation  probe  (131-I-albumin,  
99-Tc-albumin  or  99-Tc-erythrocytes  are  the  methods  that  have  been  used  in  the  ILP-programme; 
iodinated albumin is preferred). 
After  ILP  anticoagulation  should  be  continued  for  48  hours.  The  patient  is  taken  to  the  ICU  and 
closely  monitored  for  at  least  48  hours  post  ILP.  Adequate  fluid  hydration  and  small  doses  of 
dopamine as infusion is continued. 
If a tumour response is seen it occurs with a maximum 4-6 weeks after ILP and resections of tumour 
remnants is performed 12-16 weeks after ILP.   
Studies with melphalan +TNFα + IFNγ 
Study 152.63  
This  pilot  study  was  open-labelled  non-randomised.  Patients  received  IFNγ  0.2  mg  s.c  for  two  days 
prior to ILP. The dosage and ILP procedure were identical to what is recommended in the posology 
section  of  the  SPC  (TNF  3000  µg  upper  limb,  4000  µg  lower  limb,  L-PAM  13  mg/l  perfused  limb 
(upper  limb)  and  10  mg/l  perfused  limb  (lower  limb),  except  for  the  addition  of  IFNγ  0.2  mg).  The 
total  perfusion  time  was  90  min  (30  min  with  TNF  +  IFNγ  followed  by  60  min  of  L-PAM).  The 
arterial blood temperature was maintained at 40o during ILP.  
IFNγ was included because of its in-vitro upregulating effect on TNF receptors and a synergistic effect 
in animal models. The study was initiated in 1989 before the implementation of GCP Guidelines in the 
EU.  The  exclusion  criteria  were  the  same  as  in  the  IOR  programme  (see  below).  Included  were 
patients  with  high  grade  STS  and  good  performance  status.  All  patients  received  dopamine  infusion 
plus fluid during the ILP and for the first 48 hours after ILP. All patients were monitored in an ICU for 
48 hours after ILP. Paracetamol 500 mg was used as prophylaxis against fever, chills and myalgias. 
Thirty-nine  patients  were  screened  and  consented  to  participate  in  the  trial.  Of  these,  20  patients 
completed  a  1-year  follow-up  after  ILP.  13  patients  experienced  recurrence  or  progression  of  the 
10/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
disease,  two  patients  was  excluded  due  to  protocol  violation,  two  received  other  chemotherapy  or 
radiotherapy, one patient died and one patient was lost to follow-up. The median follow-up from ILP 
was 846 days (84-1472 days). Two patients did not met the inclusion criteria (one was aged 13 years 
and one was not staged according to S-criteria), 5 patients were included despite of other cancers, one 
patient did not meet the vascular disease exclusion criteria, 1 did not meet the renal disease exclusion 
criteria.  
Protocol  violations  occurred  during  the  ILPs.  In  particular  there  were  deviations  in  the  doses  of 
melphalan  (see  also  IOR  programme).  The  median  dose  administered  was  95  mg  (33-150  mg). 
Deviations of 2.5 mg or less were recorded in 9 patients, between 2.5 and 10 mg in 6 patients, between 
10 and 37.6 mg in 14 patients. Four patients received less TNF than planned.  
Other  protocol  violations  included  excessive  leakage  to  the  systemic  circulation  (16,  11  and  25%), 
lacking distal temperature measurement in 7 patients, ILPs administered outside the approved centres 
in 2 patients. 
Efficacy population: All 39 patients were evaluated for efficacy. Ten patients underwent amputation 
giving a limb salvage rate of 29/39 (74%) during the follow-up period. The 10 amputations occurred 
13-910 days after ILP (median 475 days). Responses were as follows: 
Final response                               n              % 
Complete Response (CR)             11          28.2 
Partial Response      (PR)             13           33.3 
No Change               (NC)              9           23.1 
Progressive Disease (PD)              4           10.3 
Non Assessable        (NA)             2             5.1 
Total                                             39 
A  number  of  prognostic  factors  for  response  were  assessed.  No  fixation  to  neurovascular  bundle, 
smaller tumour size, only one lesion implied a higher response rate. There was some centre effect in a 
multivariate analysis (P=0.11). 
17 patients suffered local recurrence or progression with a median duration of 888 days. 
This was the first study to investigate TNF (tasonermin) in both STS and malignant  melanoma. The 
high response rate prompted the initiation of the IOR programme by the same investigators as well 
as other perfusionists.  
The  SPC  for  Beromun  is  specific  for  the  calculation  of  the  dose,  as  it  is  apparent  from  the  clinical 
trials performed that the calculation of the dose was not straightforward.  
Study 152.62  
This was an open label non-randomised multicentre study. After two days of IFNγ 0.2 mg s.c/day the 
ILP procedure was initiated. The dosage and ILP procedure were identical to what is recommended in 
the  posology  section  of  the  SPC  (TNF  3000  µg  upper  limb,  4000  µg  lower  limb,  L-PAM  13  mg/l 
perfused limb (upper limb) and 10 mg/l perfused limb (lower limb), except for the addition of IFNγ 
0.2  mg).  The  total  perfusion  time  was  90  min  (30  min  with  TNF  +  IFNγ  followed  by  60  min  of 
L-PAM). The arterial blood temperature was maintained at 40o during ILP. 
The inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria were identical to those used in Study 152.66 (see below) 
except  for  including  some  patients  with  metastatic  disease  (S4).  Fluid  and  dopamine  prophylaxis, 
observations in ICU and monitoring leakage into systemic circulation regimens were identical. Criteria 
for ILP retreatment were the same. 
23 patients were included. All met the inclusion and not the exclusion criteria. 17 protocol violations 
were due to dosage deviations during ILP. Two patients received 50% and 16% less melphalan than 
planned. Nine patients had deviations that did not exceed 2.5 mg, and 4 had deviations of 10%. One 
patient  received  3,000  µg  TNF  instead  of  4,000  µg.  Two  patients  had  excessive  systemic  leakage 
(16% and 20%), two patients received their ILP outside the approved centres. 
11/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy population: 
Three  patients  underwent  amputation  following  ILP  resulting  in  a  limb 
salvage rate of 20/23 (87%) for a median observation time of 555 days. The 3 amputations occurred 
239,248 and  692  days after ILP. One of these patients had received  a very small dose of  melphalan 
(50% of scheduled dosage). Three patients died without amputation during the first year after ILP. 
The response rates for an OR of 82.6% (95 CI 61.2-95.1%) were as follows: 
Complete Response (CR) 
Partial Response (PR) 
No Change (NC) 
Progressive Disease (PD) 
n 
  3 
16 
  3 
  1 
23 
(%) 
 13.0 
 69.6 
 13.0 
   4.3 
100.0 
Factors that influenced response were centre (p=0.008), gender (p=0.02), and Sarcoma Stage (p=0.15) 
as assessed by stepwise logistic regression. 
The Kaplan-Meier estimate for median survival was 770 days after ILP (6 deaths during the follow up 
period). The median duration until local progression/recurrence exceeds 237 days. 
Except  for  survival  there  was  a  strong  centre  effect  on  response  rate,  progression-free  survival,  and 
overall limb recurrence-free survival. 
This  trial  is  small  sized  as  most  other  studies  in  the  application.  The  limb  salvage  rate  is  high  with 
only 3 amputations during the follow-up period. 
Studies with melphalan and TNFα alone 
Study 152.66  
This  was  an  open  label  non-randomised  multicentre study  (three  centres  in  the  Netherlands  and  one 
centre in Switzerland). The dosage and ILP procedure were identical to what is recommended in the 
posology section of the SPC (TNF 3000 µg upper limb, 4000 µg lower limb, L-PAM 13 mg/l perfused 
limb  (upper  limb)  and  10  mg/l  perfused  limb  (lower  limb).  The  total  perfusion  time  was  90  min       
(30 min with TNF followed by 60 min of L-PAM). The arterial blood temperature was maintained at 
40o during ILP. 
23  patients  took  part  in  this  study  (22  received  one  treatment,  one  patient  received  two  treatments). 
The  trial  was  conducted  according  to  EU  GCP  guidelines.  Only  high  risk  factor  patients  with  STS 
aged between 12 and 80 years and S1-S3 risk grades were included. Exclusion criteria as in the IOR 
programme (se below). Potential systemic leakage was monitored with radioactive albumin. Perfusion 
was terminated if systemic leakage exceeded 10%. Fluid and dopamine prophylaxis was administered 
to all patients prior to TNF and for 48 hours after ILP. Patients were to spend 48 hours in the ICU after 
ILP. Immediate TNF side effects treated prophylactically with paracetamol or indomethacin. 
A second ILP was allowed 28-42 days after first ILP in-patients with stable disease or partial response 
and still unresectable tumours and haematological recovery and normal renal function.  
23 patients were included of whom 7 completed the observation period of one year. All other patients 
(14)  had  progression  of  the  disease  or  recurrence.  One  patient  had  amputation  and  one  was  lost  to 
follow-up. 19 patients met both inclusion and exclusion criteria. One patient was aged 82 years, two 
had  concurrent  malignancy,  and  one  patient  was  known  to  use  vasopressor  agents  at  the  time  of 
inclusion. 
Again,  the  main  reason  for  protocol  violation  was  deviation  from  the  planned  dosage  of  melphalan 
(n=15). However, 9 patients had small deviations (< 2.5 mg), 5 had deviations of 10%, and one patient 
received 36% (14 mg) less than prescribed. Hyperthermia was not obtained in two patients. 
Efficacy: 4 patients underwent amputation with a median observation time of 421 days for all patients. 
Limb salvage was thus achieved in 19/23 (83%). This should be compared with  6 deaths within the 
first year without amputation. CR and PR were achieved in 6 patients (26%) and 7 (30%) respectively.  
There were important centre differences but the numbers are small. OR varied from 0% to 85% among 
12/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
centres. The centre effect could not be found in a logistic regression analysis that identified Sarcoma 
Stage (S-status) and tumour size as the only significant factors. 
10 patients died after ILP with a median survival time of 551 days for the entire group.  The time to 
local recurrence/progression was > 348 days. 
The follow-up period was relatively short, and the patients included seemed to have more aggressive 
sarcomas than patients included in the pilot trial with 10 deaths during the first 18 months after ILP. 
The limb sparing effect was in the same range as reported in the other trials.  
The Investigators’ Own Responsibility Study (152.12)  
This was an open-labelled non-randomised multicentre study investigating the efficacy and safety of 
one  or  two  treatments  with  TNF  and  melphalan  by  mild  hyperthermic  ILP  in-patients  with  STS. 
Efficacy endpoints have been described earlier in this AR. 
103 patients received one treatment (90 patients), two treatments (12 patients) or three treatments (one 
patient). The decision to give  more than one treatment depended on the clinical response (i.e. either 
insufficient response to allow limb sparing surgery or subsequent progression after initial CR). 
The dosage and ILP procedure were identical to what is recommended in the posology section of the 
SPC (TNF 3000 µg upper limb, 4000 µg lower limb, L-PAM 13 mg/L perfused limb (upper limb) and 
10  mg/L  perfused  limb  (lower  limb).  The  median  total  dose  was  80  mg  (0-180  mg).  The  total 
perfusion  time  was  90  min  (30  min  with  TNF  followed  by  60  min  of  L-PAM).  The  arterial  blood 
temperature was maintained at 40o during ILP. 
The study continues to accrue patients. As of July 1997, 207 patients have been included. The results 
for the first 103 patients entered until October 1995 are presented in an interim report. The cut-off date 
is January 1997. 
The inclusion criteria was patients STS of the extremities with a good performance status (ECOG 0-1) 
and high risk factor graded from S1 to S4: Irresectable STS grade II-III, grade I (> 8 cm) or any grade 
II-III tumour that can only be resected at the cost of unacceptable functional morbidity, patients with 
local recurrence (grade I > 8 cm, grade II-III) if treated before by surgery and/or radiotherapy or ILP 
with chemotherapy alone;  patients with metastatic disease at the time of presentation of the primary 
STS if it can be resected only by amputation or unacceptable morbidity. There were a large number of 
exclusion  criteria  including  significant  cardiovascular  disease,  significant  renal  dysfunction  (s-
creatinine > 150 mmol/l or creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min), inability to tolerate vasopressor agents, 
WBC < 2,500 and platelets < 60,000, clinically relevant pulmonary dysfunction etc., patients requiring 
anticoagulants, antithrombotic agents,  systemic  corticosteroids  and NSAIDs. Previous  chemotherapy 
and/or radiotherapy within 4 weeks. 
Overall  efficacy  results:  84  patients  (82%)  achieved  the  target  limb  salvage  for  a  median  post-ILP 
observation time of 372 days. In terms of response rate, 17 CR and 50 PR (OR 65%, 95% CI 55-74%) 
were  observed.  The  median  survival  has  not  been  reached  but  is  actually  in  excess  of  2  years.  The 
median time to local recurrence exceeds 1 year. 19 patients underwent amputation during the follow-
up period 
Prognostic  factors  for  response  rate  evaluated  by  logistic  regression  included  centre  (p=0.001),  age 
(p=0.049), fixation to neurovascular bundle, multiple lesions, and tumour size did not attain statistical 
significance (p> 0.10 and < 0.20). These factors were selected from univariate analysis. For survival 
the S-status was the most important variable.  
A  number  of  protocol  violations  occurred.  During  ILP  particularly  the  melphalan  dosage  deviated 
from  the  planned  dosage.  On  centre  did  not  record  limb  volumes,  and  melphalan  deviations  for  38 
ILPs  could  not  be  calculated?  For  another  23  patients  the  differences  from  protocol  dosage  did  not 
exceed 2.5  mg. The deviation was > 2.5 mg  and < 10  mg in 12 patients, and from 10 to 158 mg in  
14  patients.  In  two  of  these  cases  the  deviations  of  84.5  mg  and  110  mg  respectively  could  be 
explained  by  TNF  leakage  and  interruption  of  the  ILP.  Hence,  melphalan  was  not  given  to  these 
patients.  TNF  doses  deviated  in  5  patients.  All  received  lower  doses  than  planned.  Distal  skin 
temperature  was not available for 31 ILPs and it was below  38o for 5 patients. Eight occurrences of 
excessive leakage into systemic circulation were recorded as protocol violation.  
13/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Two patients received IFNγ. 
The  IOR  programme  was  uncontrolled  and  a  number  of  protocol  violations  occurred.  However,  the 
efficacy  results  were  comparable  to  who’s  achieved  in  the  pilot  trial  and  the  two  small  “pivotal” 
clinical trials with a limb salvage rate of 82% and a high overall tumour response rate.  
Report from Independent Review and integrated summary of efficacy 
The Independent Review Committee received all CRF, histology reports, radiological assessment etc. 
from  the  4  open  label  studies.  188  cases  were  submitted  to  the  committee,  6  patients  were  found  to 
have  other  tumours  than  STS,  2  patients  had  insufficient  data  for  review,  and  one  patient  had  no 
measurable tumour pre-ILP. The committee had to reach agreement with respect to diagnosis, destiny 
(amputation  or  not),  and  outcome.  In  case  of  disagreement,  an  arbitrator  should  be  consulted.  In  no 
case  was  it  necessary  to  use  the  arbitrator.  None  of  the  members  of  the  committee  had  any  direct 
involvement  in  the  conduct  of  the  clinical  trials  and  two  of  three  members  (two  surgeons  with 
expertise  in  STS  plus  one  radiologist)  came  from  countries  that  had  not  participated  in  the  TNFα 
programme. A third surgical oncologist acted as arbitrator in cases where agreement was not reached 
among the members. 
All clinical source material was blinded so the reviewers were unaware of the patient’s identity, centre 
or investigator. Meetings were restricted so that no investigator or monitor could attend. 
Surgical outcome: 
The  committee  considered  145  of  179  (81%)  assessable  patients  destined  to 
be amputated or resected with significant loss of function. These patients were “Review Positive”, the 
remaining 34 patients “Review Negative”. 
The  post  ILP  outcome  was  evaluable  in  166/179  patients.  13  patients  could  not  be  allocated  to  any 
response category because of early death, complication of treatment or lack of follow-up data. These 
13 patients were analysed as if they required amputation. Using this method the committee identified 
97/179 (54%) who achieved a better response than predicted, 77/179 (43%) achieved their predicted 
outcome, and 5/179 did worse than expected:   
Limb salvage without resection 
Resection without significant loss of function 
Resection with loss of function 
Amputation 
Outcome not assessable considered as amputation 
31/179 (17%) 
90/179 (50%) 
  4/179 ( 2%) 
41/179 (23%) 
13/179 ( 7%) 
Considering  the  target  population  (i.e.  145  patients  destined  to  be  amputated  or  resected  with 
significant  loss  of  function)  the  following  results  were  obtained:  62%  had  a  better  outcome  than 
predicted  (66%  if  one  counts  the  4  patients  who  underwent  resection  with  loss  of  function  but  was 
destined to be amputated): 
Limb salvage without resection 
Resection without significant loss of function 
Resection with loss of function 
Amputation 
Outcome not assessable considered as amputation 
27/145 (19%) 
63/145 (43%) 
  4/145 (  3%) 
39/145 (27%) 
12/179 (  8%) 
Time-to-event data: 
47  “Review  positive”  and  4  “Review  negative”  patients  died  during  the 
follow-up period. For the “Review positive” group the median survival was approximately 3.2 years. 
The time to amputation or loss of function was close to 3 years for patients surviving for more than 
one year post ILP (n=113). 
Tumour Response (secondary variable): Overall response rate was 64% (27CR+66PR) in the “Review 
Positive” group and 71% (7CR + 17PR) in the “Review Negative” group. 
As regards the hard endpoint “amputation or resection with significant loss of function” more than half 
of the population assessable for the Independent Review had a better outcome than predicted. If one 
only considers the true target population, namely the 145 patients in whom the Independent Review 
Committee  felt  sure  that  major  surgery  was  unavoidable,  62%  had  a  limb  sparing  effect  of  the  ILP 
procedure.  
14/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Independent Review is highly recommendable and the methodology used was conservative. In the 
absence  of  comparative  trials  this  approach  strengthen  the  credibility  of  the  results  obtained  in  
4 rather weak clinical trials with a number of deficiencies (poor protocol adherence and large centre 
differences  in  the  IOR  programme,  the  inclusion  of  IFNγ  in  two  studies,  a  continuously  decreasing 
target population in order to achieve homogeneity). The Independent Review did not comment on the 
data quality. 
The inclusion of IFNγ in two trials did change the results. However, the number of patients are small.  
Other information on efficacy 
The applicant has submitted a report comparing the survival of patients treated with ILP (melphalan 
plus  TNF)  with  a  retrospective  series  of  632  patients  treated  conventionally  (amputation/large 
resections with or without radiotherapy) from the STS Database of the Musculoskeletal Tumor Center 
University  Hospital,  Lund,  Sweden.  The  test  population  comprised  97  patients  (54  with  primary 
tumour and 43 with local recurrence) derived from 126 patients who received the proposed regimen 
and who were judged as being destined for amputation by the Independent Review. As there were no 
difference in-patients with either primary tumour or local recurrence, both groups were included in the 
analysis.  In  a  multivariate  adjustment  further  6  ILP  patients  were  excluded  due  to  incomplete  data. 
The Cox proportional hazards model revealed a RR for a tumour related death for ILP treated patients 
of 1.5 (90% CI 1.0-2.3). At the 5% level, this RR was not different from the RR of controls (p=0.08). 
The matched analysis was performed on 114 matched patients (57 + 57). The Cox model now revealed 
a RR of 1.4 for ILP patients. At the 5% level there was no difference between the RRs (p=0.4931).  
Although  the  survival  for  ILP  treated  patients  could  be  slightly  worse  than  for  patients  treated  with 
conventional therapy, the difference was not significant. Such matched analysis should be interpreted 
critically.  The  main  finding  is  that  ILP  -  and  more  limb  preservation  -  does  not  appear  to  have 
detrimental effects on patients’ tumour-related survival. 
Safety 
The AE seen in the 4 individual ILP studies have been provided. However, these are not very detailed. 
Also  provided  was  a  table  derived  from  the  textual  summary  describing  the  results  for  445  patients 
that have received the ILP procedure for either STS or other tumours (mostly malignant melanoma). 
There  have  been  4  procedure/drug-related  deaths  in  these  445  patients.  Two  was  caused  by  wound 
infections, one death was a result of severe hypotension, renal failure and ARDS (not an STS patient) 
after  ILP,  and  one  patient  had  cardiac  arrest  and  tension  pneumothorax  caused  by  a  central  venous 
catheter. 
The systemic toxicity of the ILP procedure is well documented and not different from the expected for 
TNF and Melphalan. In addition the ILP procedure in itself might give local reactions, mainly pain in 
the  perfused  limb  but  also  more  serious  AE  such  as  nerve  injury,  severe  tissue  damage,  thrombotic 
complications and wound infections.   
Studies with melphalan +TNFα + IFNγ  
Study 152.63 
Systemic toxicity consisted of fever (100%), chills (51%), cardiac rhythm disturbances (62%), nausea 
and vomiting (31%), fatigue (26%). Serious adverse events consisted of liver toxicity (18%), ARDS 
(13%),  thrombocytopenia  (10%).  Impairment  of  cardiac  function  (8%),  acute  renal  failure  (8%). 
Regional  toxicity  consisted  mainly  in  pain  (67%).  Nerve  injury  (10.3%)  and  venous  thrombosis 
(7.7%)  were  other  AE  that  could  be  related  to  the  ILP  procedure.  No  deaths  could  be  attributed 
directly to ILP. 
Blood pressure < 100/60 mmHg occurred in at least 14 patients, HR varied between 55 and 200 bpm.  
A special section deals with AE in patients with excessive leakage into systemic circulation defined as 
greater than 10% of leakage corresponding to a theoretical TNF exposure of 300-400 µg, e.g. in the 
range  of systemic MTD. This occurred in  2 patients (3  ILPs). In one patient  with a leakage of 16% 
severe thrombocytopenia and leukopenia occurred on the day of ILP (resolved by day 29) 
15/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  other  patient  with  an  11%  leakage  during  the  first  ILP  developed  cardiac  rhythm  disturbance, 
ARDS and liver toxicity. During the second ILP the leakage reached 24% during the first 60 minutes, 
but  the  perfusion  was  not  terminated  prematurely.  Subsequently,  the  patient  developed  infection, 
cardiac  function  disturbance,  venous  thrombosis,  wound  infection,  serious  loss  of  consciousness, 
ARDS and ARF. The patient recovered completely within 6 weeks following ILP. 
A  number  of  laboratory  variables  were  changed  after  ILP.  Unfortunately,  many  data  are  missing. 
Direct  bilirubin,  LDH,  ALAT,  ASAT  tended  to  increase.  Haemoglobin,  leukocytes  and  platelets 
decreased during the day of ILP most values returned to normal within 2 weeks. Hypoalbuminaemia 
was seen in 9 patients post ILP. 
Most of the AE are expected after some systemic exposure of the two cytokines and melphalan. 
Study 152.62 
All 23 patients were evaluated for safety. Whereas the dosage of TNF and IFN in the vast majority of 
the  cases  was  the  one  specified  in  the  protocol,  melphalan  dosage  varied  considerably.  The  median 
dose was 80 mg (range 28-140 mg).  
Fever,  chills,  nausea  and  vomiting,  pain  in  the  perfused  limb,  cardiac  rhythm  disturbances,  liver 
toxicity as assessed by increased bilirubin and transminase levels were the most common AE as in the 
other clinical trials. 
No patient died during the first two weeks after ILP. All 6 deaths were due to progressive STS. 
Two  patients  experienced  excessive  leakage  to  the  systemic  circulation  (16  and  20%).  The  first 
patients  had  an  uncomplicated  post  ILP  course  with  prolonged  fever  as  the  most  characteristic 
symptom.    The  other  patient  had  infection  and  proteinuria  on  day  2  followed  by  shock  for  2  days. 
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia was also recorded. The symptoms resolved completely. 
With  respect  to  laboratory  parameters,  the  effects on  haematology  and  liver  function  parameters  the 
findings were similar to those observed in the other clinical trials: Early and transient fall in WBC and 
platelets,  increases  in  transaminases,  s-bilirubin  and  LDH,  decreases  in  total  s-protein  and  albumin. 
Some patients had increases in creatinine kinase levels. 
5/23 had systolic BP < 110 mmHg with rapid recovery. 
Studies with melphalan and TNFα alone 
Study 152.66 
Adverse  Events  (AE)  were  reported.  Fever  (78%),  nausea  and  vomiting  (35%),  and  cardiac  rhythm 
disturbances (26%) were the  most common AE. Two patients underwent amputation within the first 
14  days after ILP and are therefore considered as  having an AE. Local toxicity included pain in the 
infused  limb  (70%),  nerve  injury  (17%),  arterial  thrombosis  (13%).  All  10  deaths  were  due  to 
fulminant  progression  of  the  malignant  disease  (4-18  months  after  ILP).  Serious  AE  were  few,  two 
patients with liver toxicity and one patient with thrombocytopenia. 
No patient had systemic TNF leakage in excess of 10%. 
A number of laboratory changes were recorded. Even if both leukocyte and platelets decreased after 
ILP this was of no serious clinical concern. Platelets were below 100 giga/l in 4 patients days 1-2, and 
WBC  below  4  giga/l  in  4  patients.  Bilirubin  increased  in  5  patients,  of  whom  2  were  recorded  as 
having  liver  toxicity  (elevated  LDH  and  transaminase  values  as  well).  Low  s-albumin  was  seen  in  
11 patients. Creatinine kinase levels were elevated in 11/13 assessable patients. 
5 patients had BP below 100/45 mmHg. Increased pulse rate was in most instances related to elevated 
body temperature, 3 patients had very high pulse rates (160, 170, and 190 bpm). 
There were no serious systemic leakages. The toxicity except for local toxicity was the expected for 
melphalan and TNF-α 
The Investigators’ Own Responsibility Study (152.12)  
Safety monitoring for this trial included TNF leakage by two methods (radioactive albumin or radio-
labelled erythrocytes). All patients received appropriate fluid challenge for the prophylaxis of shock. If 
16/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
indicated dopamine infusion was initiated at an infusion rate of 3 µg/kg/min and continued for up to 
48 hours after ILP. Patients were closely monitored for 48 hours in an intensive care unit. If indicated 
a Swan-Ganz catheter was used to monitor wedge pressure and PAP. The chills, fever, and myalgias 
were  treated  with  paracetamol  500  mg  orally  or  by  suppository  (indomethacin  100  mg  suppository 
was used as an alternative). 
All  103  patients  were  evaluated  for  safety  regardless  of  the  above  mentioned  protocol  violations. 
Overall 116 ILP procedures were performed in these 103 patients. Nearly all patients had at least one 
AE  (97.1%).  Fever  was  the  most  common  AE  (75%)  followed  by  nausea/vomiting  (33%),  fatigue 
(19.4%),  chills 
(12.6%). 
Thrombocytopenia (7.8%), impaired cardiac function (3.9%), shock (2.9%), acute respiratory failure 
(1%). Table 10.2.2. (Appendix A) shows all recorded AE. 
toxicity  assessed  by  clinical  chemistry 
(13.6%),  serious 
liver 
Laboratory  changes  of  potential  concern  included:  haemoglobin  <  5  mmol/l  (n=7),  platelets  <  100 
giga/l  (n=17),  WBC  <  4  giga/l  (n=16),  increased  bilirubin  (>  30  µmol/l  for  20  patients),  elevated 
transaminases (more than x2 upper limit for 45 patients), elevated LDH (more than x2 upper limit for 
8  patients).  Vital  signs  were  poorly  recorded  and  no  information  is  available  after  the  pre-ILP 
evaluation.  
AE in-patients experiencing excessive systemic leakage were described for 8 patients. The symptoms 
were  typical  for  TNF  and  melphalan  systemic  toxicity  with  fever,  hypotension,  myelosuppression, 
nausea and vomiting, liver toxicity and renal toxicity. No mortality was seen in this subset. 
Except for the patients with excessive systemic leakage, which should be avoided, toxicity profile was 
the  expected  from  previous  experience  with  melphalan  and  TNFα.  The  laboratory  and  clinical 
monitoring show that a number of data sets are missing. 
Conclusion (clinical) of the CPMP on the Original Dossier Submitted.  
Due to the lack of controlled clinical studies and a conservative estimate of the limb sparing effect of 
60% in patients with soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities, the CPMP posed a number of questions to 
the  applicant  regarding  reanalysis  of  the  efficacy  data.  Also  pertinent  for  a  final  analysis  of  the 
risk/benefit  ratio  is  a  more  clear  discussion  of  the  exact  role  of  the  various  components  of  the 
treatment procedure, i.e. hyperthermia, melphalan, and the optimal dose relation between TNFα and 
melphalan. 
Isolated limb perfusion under hyperthermic conditions with melphalan + Beromun is a treatment for 
subspecialists and treatment units will be located in a few centres with thorough knowledge of the ILP 
technique,  ICU  facilities,  close  monitoring  of  TNF  leakage  etc.  The  risk  must  be  viewed  in  that 
context.  However,  there  is  concern  on  the  risk  of  systemic  leakage  of  large  doses  of  TNFα  and  the 
optimal  methodology  for  monitoring  leakage  during  isolated  limb  perfusion.  Also  important  for 
risk/benefit  is  the  potential  adverse  effect  on  overall  survival  that  may  be  a  consequence  of  limb 
sparing.  
Responses to questions posed by CPMP on clinical aspects 
The CPMP questions were divided into four main areas: 1) Methodology related issues (i.e. justification 
for the lack of comparative trials, request for more mature clinical data from ongoing clinical trials, the 
need  for  external  control  data  to  substantiate  the  risk-benefit  ratio,  and  the  data  behind  the  claim,  that 
about 10% of patients with soft tissue sarcoma (STS) are destined for amputation or severely debilitating 
surgery); 2) Issues related to the clinical pharmacology of TNF-α and  melphalan and the isolated limb 
perfusion (ILP) procedure; 3) Issues related to efficacy of the treatment and 4) Issues related to safety. 
New Data 
The original Dossier has been expanded with more efficacy and safety data mainly because the applicant 
has updated the Report from Independent Review and integrated summary of efficacy presented in 
the initial application. The target population has been increased to 196 patients destined to be amputated 
or  resected  with  significant loss  of function.  With  more  mature  data in  a  larger  population  the  efficacy 
results  are  confirmed  and  the  Independent  Review  Board  consistently  have  considered  approximately 
80% of the patients to be destined for amputation. The most pertinent changes in numbers are shown in 
Table below. Considering the target population (i.e. 196 patients destined to be amputated or resected with 
significant  loss  of  function)  the  following  results  were  obtained:  60.7  %  had  a  better  outcome  than 
17/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
predicted (63.3% if one counts 5 patients who underwent resection with loss of function but was destined 
to be amputated, after a median follow-up time of more than 500 days). 
Patients - submitted 
               - assessable 
Pre-ILP Destiny 
- amputation 
- resection with function loss 
- resection w/o function loss 
Post-ILP outcome ‘review pos.’ 
- limb salvage w/o resection 
- resection w/o function loss 
- resection with function loss 
- amputation 
- not assessable 
Post-ILP outcome ‘review neg’ 
- limb salvage w/o resection 
- resection w/o function loss 
- resection with function loss 
- amputation 
- not assessable 
Original Dossier 
188 (100%) 
179 (95%) 
179 
124 (69.3%) 
 21 (11.7%) 
 34 (19%) 
145 
 27 (18.6%) 
 63 (43.4%) 
  4  (2.8%) 
 39 (26.9%) 
 12 (8.3%) 
 34 
 4 (11.8%) 
27 (79.4%) 
- 
 2 (5.9%) 
 1 (2.9%) 
to 
for  Response 
Updated 
CPMP 
260 
246 (95%) 
246 
164 (66.7%) 
 32 (13%) 
 50 (20.3%) 
196 
 37 (18.9%) 
 82 (41.8%) 
   5 (2.6%) 
56 (28.6%) 
16 (8.2%) 
50 
 8 (16%) 
29(78%) 
- 
2 (4.0%) 
1 (2.0%)  
Justification of the lack of comparative trials 
The applicant has again stressed the fact that Beromun is only intended for the treatment of the 10% of 
patients with STS that are destined to be amputated or resected with significant loss of limb function. The 
10% figure seems well substantiated by data from the literature and major Swedish and French databases. 
Major arguments for an application based on phase II data only are listed: 1). Literature review supports 
the conclusion that truly irresectable patients are rarely subjected to adjuvant radiotherapy or radiotherapy 
alone.  An  extensive  and exhaustive  literature  review  1988-98  has  not  revealed  other  relevant treatment 
options  that  should  have  been  included  in  a  control  arm.  2).  Disease  severity  is  the  key  issue  and 
distinguishing feature in the ILP series of this application (55% primary tumours, 45% recurrent tumours, 
22  multifocal  tumours,  46%  tumor  size  >  10  cm,  13%  previous  radiotherapy,  and  15%  previous 
chemotherapy). No comparable series have been reported in the literature. 3) A comparison of ILP versus 
radiotherapy  is  difficult  to  conduct  because  of  patient  eligibility  problems.  The  investigators  and  the 
Independent Committee had considered all standard treatment options, including all forms of radiotherapy 
before designating the patient as irresectable and destined for amputation/debilitating surgery. Therefore, 
according  to  the  applicant,  radiotherapy  was  considered  not  any  more  to  be  a  treatment  option    (i.e. 
adjuvant radiotherapy would not make the patient resectable or radiotherapy alone would not ensure local 
tumour control). In some patients prior irradiation precluded curative dosimetry, in others the tumour area 
was too large or multifocal. 4) The applicant has considered the possibility to include patients with less 
severe  disease  into  a  comparative  trial,  but  since  this  population  does  well  with  surgery  plus  adjuvant 
radiotherapy and thus does not need ILP it would not be justified to enroll patients into a randomised trial. 
5). Another issue is the choice of radiotherapy. The most comparable regimen to ILP would be adjuvant 
radiotherapy prior to surgery. The application has reviewed the literature for such trials in a comparable 
population.  The  conclusion  was  that  the  assessment  of  patient’s  benefit  is  impossible  due  to 
heterogeneous population, retrospective collection of patients from single institutions, and poorly defined 
criteria  for  resectability  6).  Brachytherapy  (internal  radiotherapy)  plus  marginal  resections  requires 
patients  with  nearly  resectable  tumours.  Moreover,  it  is  only  recommended  to  use  brachytherapy  in-
patients with negative margins. Adjuvant radiotherapy postoperatively plus intralesional resections has a 
high local recurrence rate 7). The applicant, finally, refers to the current Note for Guidance on Evaluation 
of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products  in  Man  (CPMP/EWP/205/95)  claiming  that  TNF+melphalan  by  ILP 
has outstanding anticancer activity in a population with no other real therapeutic options, that the regimen 
has acceptable and characterised toxicity profile, that clinical benefit in terms of limb salvage has been 
demonstrated,  that  the  classical  tumour  response  rate  is  consistently  high.  Thus,  the  criteria  for  not 
performing controlled trials are present. 
18/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issues related to the clinical pharmacology and ILP procedure  
The choice of melphalan as the preferred drug for ILP is justified. The dosing regimen is also justified. 
Prerequisites for the use in ILP are that the drug is active without prior systemic metabolisation and that 
the  loco-regional  toxicity  is  manageable.  Thus,  ifosfamide,  cyclophosphamide  and  dacarbazine  (DTIC) 
are unsuitable for ILP use. Doxorubicin is an active drug in STS but the risk of local toxicity is high when 
used for ILP purpose. Actinomycin D has radiation sensitising effects, which may last for several months. 
Moreover,  the  combination  of  melphalan  and  Actinomycin  D  does  not  seem  to  be  more  effective  than 
melphalan alone in ILP settings. Finally, cisplatin is one of the best-documented drugs for ILP but not for 
the  STS  indication,  since  most  of  the  experience  has  been  gathered  from  melanoma  trials.  From  the 
limited data it appears that cisplatin is not very active in STS and that cisplatin is bound to limb tissues for 
a  prolonged  period  of  time  after  ILP.  This  property  makes  cisplatin  less  suitable  for  combination  with 
TNF-α,  which  rapidly  targets  and  destroys  tumour  vasculature.  One  major  area  of  concern  was  the 
systemic  leakage  of  TNF  and  the  potential  risk  of  serious  adverse  events.  This  issue  is  not  completely 
resolved but the clinical experience supports that the apparent high systemic exposure to TNF is poorly 
correlated with safety. Since the radiotracer technique appears to function in the clinical situation and no 
better  alternatives  are  available  the  rapporteurs  support  that  this  method  remains  in  the  SPC  text.  The 
methodology for measurement of leakage is sufficiently described and justified (the albumin method and 
Indium-111 labelled erythrocytes).  
Another area of concern was a potential interaction between TNF and NSAIDs and corticosteroids. Total 
patients  exposed  to  either  medication  pre-  or  post-ILP  amounts  to  51/260.  These  51  patients  are 
compared with non-exposed patients for efficacy assessment. Complete response plus partial response 
rate  was  51%  (95%CI  37.3%-64.7%)  for  exposed  versus  68%  (95%CI  61.6%-74.3%)  for  non-
exposed. As regards the whole distributions of response categories, (i.e. complete response plus partial 
response, no change, progressive disease), however, there is no statistically significant difference. The 
corresponding values for limb salvage were 71% and 79% (difference not significant). Regarding safety 
comparing data for 51 exposed with 209 non-exposed patients, there were differences in type and number 
of AE. Cases of acute renal failure were not reported. The applicant believes it is unnecessary to include a 
warning in the SPC on the concomitant use of NSAIDs during ILP with melphalan and TNF.  
Efficacy issues 
The Independent Review Committee evaluated justification for designation as a candidate for amputation 
or resection with loss of limb function and the reasons are tabulated below for the target population of 196 
patients. Major subgroups could not be defined, and even if they could be defined, the alternative therapy 
for these patients is still amputation or resection with loss of limb function. Other therapies that have been 
reported  in  the  literature  remain  experimental,  as  none  have  been  proven  in  properly  conducted 
prospective clinical trials. 
Resection with loss of function 
N 
13 
25 
17 
2 
1 
                                 Destiny Assessment 
Amputation  
N 
71  
107 
86 
71 
9 
18 
74 
27 
3 
34 
6 
164 
Reason for destiny 
Tumour size 
Tumour location 
Involvement of neurovascular bundle 
Involvement of bone 
Tumour type 
Previous surgery 
Local recurrence 
Previous radiotherapy 
Previous chemotherapy 
Multiple lesions 
Other 
Any reason 
Fitting  logistic  models  with  and  without  centre  as  explanatory  variate  assessed  centre  effects  for  limb 
salvage  and  survival.  For  a  common  parameter  obtained  by  pooling  across  centres,  95%  confidence 
intervals were established. The results are shown below: 
% 
43.3 
65.2 
52.4 
43.3 
5.5 
11.0 
45.1 
16.5 
1.8 
20.7 
3.7 
100.0 
% 
40.6 
78.1 
53.1 
6.3 
3.1 
12.5 
6.3 
100.0 
31.3 
9.4 
4 
2 
32 
10 
3 
19/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Centre - Effect for Limb Salvage - Test for Homogeneity      p= 0.7772 
Estimate of Common Limb Salvage Rate and 95% Confidence Interval = 76.42% (70.72% - 81.31%). 
Centre - Effect for Events with Respect to Survival - Test for Homogeneity  p=0.6738 
Estimate of Common Event Rate and 95% Confidence Interval = 32.1% (26.58% - 38.20%). 
The width of these confidence intervals is considered as sufficiently narrow and that there is no significant 
centre effect with respect to the “hard” endpoints, limb salvage and survival. 
The “life-time” outcome for limb salvage according to destiny prior to treatment is shown in table below: 
119/196 (61%) “review positive” patients achieved a fully functioning limb post-ILP.  
Outcome after ILP 
Limb Salvage 
w/o resection 
Destiny  N 
 8 
Resection 
% 
16.0 
Resection w/o 
Loss of funct. 
N 
 39 
%
78 
Resection with 
Loss of funct. 
N 
0 
% 
0.0
Amputation  Not  
Total 
N  % 
4.0
 2 
assessable 
N
 1
%  N
2.0   50 
% 
100.0 
Total 
Figures in bold reflect the patients from the true target population successfully treated according to limb salvage criteria. 
23.6 
18.3 
49.2 
246 
121 
2.0 
6.9 
45 
58 
17 
5 
100.0 
Safety issues 
An area of concern was that patients undergoing ILP might have a poorer survival than patients treated 
with traditional methods. For the endpoints DFS and overall survival historical control comparison did not 
allow  any  conclusion  because  they  were  not  reported  in  the  literature.  A  randomised  clinical  trial 
comparing  amputation  or  debilitating  resection  with  ILP  with  melphalan  +  TNF  was  not  considered 
feasible. 
Therefore, the applicant decided to make a survival comparison based on data from the Musculoskeletal 
Tumor Centre of the Department of Orthopedics of the University Hospital in Lund, Sweden (Southern 
Swedish  Health  Care  Region).  When  comparing  tumour-related  survival  of  TNF  +  melphalan-treated 
patients  to  the  traditionally  treated  patients  with  STS  of  the  extremities  in  a  multivariate  analysis,  the 
estimated risk for tumour-related death was increased but (at the 5% level) not statistically significant; RR 
=  1.5  (90%  CI  1.0-2.3,  p=0.0786).    The  baseline  prognostic  factors  were  more  negative  for  the  ILP 
population than for the traditionally treated patients. In a matched pairs analysis with 19 ILP cases versus 
27 controls, the RR was 1.4 (90% CI 0.6-3.0, p=0.4931) and Kaplan-Meier curves show similar survival. 
The  applicant  also  refers  to  a  NCI  (U.S.A.)  prospective  trial  comparing  amputation  with  limb  sparing 
surgery  showing  that  the  overall  survival  results  were  not  different  (Brennan  MF  et  al.  Soft  Tissue 
Sarcoma.  In:  Cancer.  Principles  and  Practice  of  Oncology.  DeVita  VT,  Hellmann  S,  Rosenberg  SA 
(Eds). 5th Edition 1997). 
The historical control comparisons have known deficiencies but it is agreed that the applicant had no other 
options  due  to  lack  of  a  randomised  trial  and  such  a  trial  is  hardly  feasible.  It  seems  reasonable  to 
conclude  that  overall  survival  is  within  the  range  of  what  has  been  reported  for  comparable  patients 
treated traditionally with amputation or major tumour resections. 
Another concern was that ILP might decrease tolerance to subsequent radiotherapy. The applicant refers 
to a report (Olieman et al. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1998; 40:807) on the results of 60-70 Gy external 
beam radiotherapy for STS after ILP with melphalan and TNF and after resection of tumour remnants. 
Tolerance to radiotherapy which was initiated within 5 weeks after tumour resection was scored with the 
SOMA system (Subjective, Objective, Medical management, and Analytical evaluation) evaluating skin, 
subcutaneous tissue, and  muscle and soft tissue (Pavy et  al.  EORTC  late  effects  working  group.  Late 
toxicity scoring: the SOMA scale. Radiotherapy & Oncology 1995; 35:11-5. Scale: 0 no impairment - 
4 most serious tissue damage). Of 15 patients treated with radiotherapy post-ILP 14 had scores smaller 
than 
3-4.  
19 patients did not receive any treatment post-ILP, 16 had scores below 1, one patient had score 2-3, and 
two score 3-4. All patients with scores 3-4 had to be amputated due to treatment-induced necrosis. These 
results are comparable to those seen after radiotherapy without ILP. 
a  maximum 
4),  whereas 
SOMA 
patient 
scores 
had 
one 
(of 
1 
20/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety database comprises 431 patients (IFN gamma excluded). Overall 9/431 (2%) patients had the 
ILP interrupted due to leakage > 10%, whereas 31/431 (7%) patients had leakage > 10% and therefore 
should have had their perfusion terminated according to the trial protocols (and the SPC proposal).  
The applicant has compared the frequency of AE according to leakage > 10%  or < 10%. Patients with 
leakage > 10% had more cardiac rhythm AE (51.6% vs 20.8%), fatigue (45.2% vs 18.2%), chills (41.9% 
vs 11.9%), liver toxicity (35.5% vs 7.3%), other serious AE (29% vs 8.1%), infection (19.4% vs 8.1%), 
thrombocytopenia  (19.4%  vs  3%),  cardiac  function  (16.1%  vs  5.3%),  night  sweats  (16.1%  vs  2%)  and 
consciousness (16.1% vs 2.5%). Excessive leakage should be avoided because of an increased number of 
AE. Among STS patients 18 had leakage > 10%. There appeared to be some centre effect (Centre11 had 
more cases with excessive leakage as 5 of the first 6 patients suffered this complication). The only other 
factor  that  could  have  contributed  to  leakage  >  10%  was  a  high  Body  Mass  index,  since  16/18  had 
BMI > 20.  
As  regards  haematological  toxicity  6  of  431  patients  (1.4%)  experienced  WHO  grade  III  or  IV 
leukopenia,  starting  between  2  and  13  days  post  ILP.  These  episodes  were  transient  and  usually  short-
lived. Only in one patient leukopenia was confirmed repeatedly for 63 days. 
Rate and grade of leukopenia are comparable to observations made after ILP with melphalan alone. 
Twenty of 431 patients (4.6%) experienced WHO grade III or IV thrombocytopenia, 19 of which started 
during the first week after ILP. 13 had thrombocytopenia for 1-3 days, 4 had thrombocytopenia for one 
week, and 3 patients had more prolonged thrombocytopenia with a maximum of 64 days. 
In all trials in STS, melanoma, and miscellaneous tumours without IFN-γ 14/431 (3%) had a Wieberdink 
(Wieberdink  J  et  al.  Dosimetry  in  isolation  perfusion  of  the  limbs  by  assessment  of  perfused  tissue 
volume and grading of toxic tissue reactions, Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol 1982; 18:905-10) score of IV or 
greater (where IV is “extensive epidermolysis and/or obvious damage to the deep tissues, causing definite 
functional  disturbances;  threatening  or  manifest  compartmental  syndrome”).  Two  of  these  cases 
underwent fasciotomy, one due to a hypervolaemic ILP, the other presumably for compartment syndrome 
(cause not specified).  
A total of 9/431 (2%) patients suffered amputation that was considered to be possibly related to ILP with a 
median  time  to  amputation  of  97  days.  The  applicant  refers  to  the  data  of  the  French  Sarcoma  Group 
reporting  on  9  trials  enrolling  1128  patients  with  STS  candidates  and  non-candidates  for  amputation 
treated with surgery, radiotherapy or chemotherapy. The amputation rate varied between 0 and 12%. 
In total 41/260 (18%) patients from the updated STS database suffered neuropathy post-ILP. The date of 
this assessment varies by patient and reflects the latest condition of the patient prior to completion of the 
Additional Information Form. Many patients suffered neuropathy prior to ILP due to tumour infiltration or 
prior therapies. In 26/260 (10%) patients neuropathy might have been caused by the ILP procedure. In 10 
of these patients motor deficit was > 50%. 
These  results  compare  favourably  with  the  outcome  after  standard  therapies  for  resectable  STS,  where 
about 27% of the patients suffer some kind of complications of which 12% are severe (Standard, Options 
et Recommendations. Sarcomes des Tissus Mous et Osteosarcomes. Blackwell A (Eds). Centres de Lutte 
Contre Le Cancer: Paris, 1995;1). Neither efficacy nor safety seems to be affected upon repeated ILP. The 
data are, however, limited. It can be concluded that TNFα-1a so far does not induce anti-TNF antibodies.  
Oral explanation 
The  applicant  presented  at  an  oral  explanation.  The  applicant  presented  data  on  the  comparison  of 
patients  treated  with  Beromun  (ILP)  versus  historical  controls.  Data  on  multivariate  analysis  and 
matched  pairs  were  given.  The  CPMP  were  reassured  by  the  data,  but  felt  that  the  SPC  should  be 
updated to reflect this information. The applicant introduced the following phrase into section 5.1 of 
the  SPC  –  ‘however,  the  treatment  is  specifically  a  loco-regional  treatment  and  is  not  expected  to 
influence survival. A matched-pair survival analysis of patients treated by BEROMUN and melphalan 
ILP as compared to a historical control failed to demonstrate any survival difference (p=0.5).’ 
21/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Conclusion 
The quality of Beromun is considered to be acceptable. Physico-chemical-biological aspects relevant 
to  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a 
satisfactory way. 
The safety of Beromun is considered to be acceptable.  
Based on the clinical studies, Beromun has a favourable risk/benefit ratio for the proposed indication. 
The  proposed  indication  for  Beromun  is  -  as  an  adjunct  to  surgery  for  subsequent  removal  of  the 
tumour so as to prevent or delay amputation, or in the palliative situation, for irresectable soft tissue 
sarcoma  of  the  limbs,  used  in  combination  with  melphalan  via  mild  hyperthermic  isolated  limb 
perfusion. 
22/22 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
