EMA/205743/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004128 
Besremi (ropeginterferon alfa-2b) 
An overview of Besremi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Besremi and what is it used for? 
Besremi is a medicine used to treat polycythaemia vera in adults who do not have symptoms of an 
enlarged spleen.  
In patients with polycythaemia vera, the body produces too many red blood cells, which can cause the 
blood to thicken and reduce blood flow to the organs. The patients’ spleen may also become larger as 
it tries to remove excess cells. 
Polycythaemia vera is rare, and Besremi was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 9 December 2011. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/EU311932. 
Besremi contains the active substance ropeginterferon alfa-2b. 
How is Besremi used? 
Besremi can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be started under the 
supervision of a doctor experienced in managing polycythaemia vera. 
Besremi is available for injection under the skin in pre-filled pens. The usual starting dose is 100 
micrograms every two weeks, which can be increased gradually until the levels of red blood cells are 
sufficiently low and stable. The maximum dose is 500 micrograms every two weeks. If side effects 
occur, the doctor can reduce the dose or stop treatment temporarily. 
For more information about using Besremi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Besremi work? 
The active substance in Besremi, ropeginterferon alfa-2b, works by attaching to receptors (targets) on 
body cells called interferon alfa/beta receptors (IFNAR). This starts several reactions that cause the 
bone marrow to produce fewer red blood cells.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b is a type of 'interferon', a natural substance produced by the body. In Besremi, 
the interferon has been 'pegylated' (attached to a chemical called polyethylene glycol) so that it can 
stay longer in the body and be given less often.  
What benefits of Besremi have been shown in studies? 
A main study of 257 patients showed that Besremi is effective at reducing levels of red blood cells in 
patients with polycythaemia vera. In this study, 43% of patients receiving Besremi had normal red 
blood cell counts after one year of treatment; 46% of patients receiving another medicine, 
hydroxycarbamide, had similar improvements. 
An extension of this study showed that continuing treatment with Besremi for longer increased the 
number of patients whose blood counts reduced to normal. 
What are the risks associated with Besremi? 
The most common side effects with Besremi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are low 
levels of white blood cells and platelets (blood components that help the blood to clot), muscle and 
joint pain, tiredness, flu-like symptoms and increased blood levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase (a 
sign of liver problems). For the full list of side effects of Besremi, see the package leaflet. 
Besremi must not be used together with telbivudine (a medicine for treating hepatitis B). It must not 
be used in patients with thyroid disease which is not controlled by standard treatment, patients who 
have had psychiatric illnesses such as severe depression, patients with severe problems affecting the 
heart and the blood vessels, patients who have recently had a heart attack or stroke, patients suffering 
from autoimmune diseases, patients who have had a transplant, and patients with very severe liver or 
kidney disease. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Besremi authorised in the EU? 
Besremi is effective at reducing the excessive number of blood cells in patients with polycythaemia 
vera, and the proportion of patients improving increased with longer treatment. Although Besremi may 
be less effective than hydroxycarbamide in the first months of treatment, phlebotomy (a procedure to 
remove excess blood from the body) can help to control the condition in the short term.  
As for its safety, the side effects of Besremi are considered manageable. In addition, the fact that 
Besremi does not have the potential to cause gene mutations was considered an important benefit. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Besremi’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Besremi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Besremi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Besremi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Besremi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Besremi 
Besremi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 February 2019. 
Besremi (ropeginterferon alfa-2b)  
EMA/205743/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Besremi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/besremi.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2019. 
Besremi (ropeginterferon alfa-2b)  
EMA/205743/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
