EMA/307168/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000081 
Betaferon (interferon beta-1b) 
An overview of Betaferon and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Betaferon and what is it used for? 
Betaferon is a medicine used to treat adults who have multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a disease in which 
inflammation damages the protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves 
themselves. Betaferon is used in patients: 
•  who have experienced the signs of MS for the first time, and these are severe enough to need 
treatment with injected corticosteroids (anti-inflammatory medicines). Betaferon is used when the 
patient is considered to be at high risk of developing MS. Before using Betaferon, doctors need to 
exclude other causes for the symptoms;  
•  who have MS of the type known as ‘relapsing-remitting’, when the patient has attacks (relapses) 
between periods with no symptoms (remissions), in patients with at least two relapses within the 
last two years; 
•  who have secondary progressive MS (the type of MS that comes after relapsing-remitting MS), 
when their disease is active.  
Betaferon contains the active substance interferon beta-1b. 
How is Betaferon used? 
Betaferon can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the treatment of MS.  
Betaferon is available as a powder and solvent that are made up into a solution that supplies a dose of 
250 micrograms. It is given by injection under the skin.  
Treatment should start with 62.5 micrograms (a quarter of the dose) every other day, increasing 
progressively over 19 days to reach the recommended dose of 250 micrograms given every other day. 
Patients can inject Betaferon themselves once they have been trained. Betaferon treatment should be 
stopped in patients whose condition does not improve. 
For more information about using Betaferon, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Betaferon work? 
The active substance in Betaferon is the protein interferon beta-1b, one of a group of interferons that 
can be naturally produced by the body to help it fight against viruses and other attacks. In MS, the 
immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions and attacks parts of the central nervous 
system (the brain, spinal cord and optic nerve [nerve that sends signals from the eye to the brain]), 
causing inflammation that damages the nerves and the insulation around them. The exact way that 
Betaferon works in MS is not yet known but the active substance, interferon beta-1b, seems to calm 
down the immune system, and prevents relapses of MS. 
What benefits of Betaferon have been shown in studies? 
Betaferon was studied over a two-year period in 338 patients with relapsing remitting MS who were 
able to walk unaided, where it was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment). Betaferon was more 
effective than placebo in reducing the number of annual relapses: patients receiving the medicine had 
on average 0.84 relapses a year, when patients on placebo had 1.27. 
Betaferon has also been studied in 1,657 patients in two studies of secondary progressive MS patients 
who were able to walk, where it was compared with placebo. One of the two studies showed a 
significant delay in the time to disability progression (31% risk reduction due to Betaferon) and in the 
time to becoming wheelchair bound (39%). In the other study, no delay in the time to disability 
progression was seen. In both studies, Betaferon showed a reduction (30%) in the number of clinical 
relapses. 
Betaferon was also studied in 487 patients with a single demyelinating event, who received either 
Betaferon or placebo for two years. Betaferon was shown to reduce the risk of developing clinically 
defined MS: 28% of the patients who received Betaferon developed MS, compared with 45% of those 
who received placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Betaferon? 
The most frequent side effects with Betaferon are flu-like symptoms (including fever, chills, joint pain, 
malaise [feeling unwell], sweating, headache and muscle pain) and reactions at the site of injection. 
Side effects are common at the beginning of treatment but usually decrease with further treatment.  
Betaferon must not be used in patients who have severe depression or have thoughts of suicide. 
Betaferon must not be used in patients who have decompensated liver disease (when the liver is 
damaged and can no longer work adequately).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Betaferon, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Betaferon authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Betaferon’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Betaferon? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Betaferon have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Betaferon (interferon beta-1b)  
EMA/547136/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Betaferon are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Betaferon are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Betaferon 
Betaferon received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 30 November 1995.  
Further information on Betaferon can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/betaferon.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
Betaferon (interferon beta-1b)  
EMA/547136/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
