SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Betaferon. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  9  January  2003.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B 
1. 
Introduction 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common, non-traumatic cause of neurologic dysfunction in young adults, 
and is the commonest disabling neurological disease of young people in the northern temperate zones. 
The highest prevalence is in Northern Europe (> 200/100,000 in Scotland). The estimated number of 
newly diagnosed cases in Europe is more than 10,000 per year. The median age of onset is 33 years. 
Multiple  sclerosis  is  usually  categorised  on  the  basis  of  clinical  manifestations  as  benign  (15-20%), 
primarily progressive, relapsing-remitting and secondary progressive disease (60-75%).  
Clinically, MS occurs in two basic forms: 
A  progressive  loss  of  function,  e.g.  leg  weakness,  known  as  primary  progressive  MS.  It  is  the  least 
common type, comprising 10-14% of patients, more frequent in men and has onset in the 5th and 6th 
decade.  
Most  patients  with  MS  present  with  a  relapsing-remitting  course.  They  have  a  disease  course 
characterised  by  attacks  of  neurologic  dysfunction  (exacerbations  or  relapses)  that  are  followed  by 
complete  or  incomplete recovery, which are  called  remissions.  It  is commoner  in females and has  a 
maximum  incidence  in  the  early  30s.  Some  never  develop  significant  disability  (the  benign  form 
RRMS)  -  about  15%  of  all  patients.  However,  about  70%  of  the  RRMS  patients  develop  increasing 
deficit  after  initial  relatively  benign  relapses.  Whilst  some  of  the  progression  is  due  to  a  gradual 
accumulation of deficit consequent upon incomplete recovery from relapses, much of the progression 
follows  a  more  insidious,  continuous  decline  with  or  without  superimposed  relapses,  known  as 
secondary progressive MS. 
Therapy for MS falls into 3 main categories: symptomatic therapy, treatment of the acute relapse, and 
attempts to favourably alter the natural history of the disease by reducing relapse rate and progression. 
Effective  symptomatic  treatments  are  available  to  alleviate  common  symptoms  such  as  spasticity, 
bladder disturbances, sexual dysfunction, ataxia pain, and weakness. Acute relapses are often treated 
with corticosteroids. While substantial advances have been made in these first two areas, attempts to 
alter the course of the disease have been largely unsuccessful until recently. 
Based  on  the  hypothesis  that  immunologic  dysregulation  underlies  MS,  a  large  number  of  trials  of 
immunomodulating  therapy  have  been  conducted.  The  pivotal  trials  with  interferon  beta-1b  in 
relapsing-remitting MS have shown that the frequency and severity of clinical relapses in ambulatory 
patients  can  be  significantly  reduced.  In  a  study,  in  the  secondary  progressive  form  of  multiple 
sclerosis,  interferon  beta-1b  slowed  progression  of  disease  and  reduced  the  frequency  of  clinical 
relapses. 
The  mechanisms  of  action  of  interferon  beta-1b  in  multiple  sclerosis  are  not  known,  but  plausible 
explanations have been proposed. 
The  biological  actions  of  interferon  beta-1b  comprise  antiviral  activity,  modulation  of  cytokine 
production/activity  (e.g.  inhibition  of  IFNγ,  IL-1,  TNFα,  upregulation  of  TGFß  expression),  and 
alteration of dysregulated T cell function in multiple sclerosis. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Betaferon  is  presented  as  a  sterile  lyophilised  powder  in  3  ml  vials  containing  0.30  mg  interferon 
beta-1b, together with human  albumin and dextrose. A diluent of 0.54% sodium chloride solution is 
supplied  for  reconstitution.  Reconstituted  solution  contains  0.25  mg  interferon  beta-1b  (8  MIU)  per 
ml.  
1/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A shelf life of 18 months (for Betaferon in vial) and 36 months (for sodium chloride solution in pre-
filled syringe) has been approved. The product should be stored at 2-8°C. 
The holder of the marketing authorisation is Schering AG. The product is packed and released for sale 
in the EU by the holder of the marketing authorisation, Schering AG. 
The  active  ingredient  in  Betaferon  is  interferon  beta-1b  (pINN).  Interferon  beta-1b  is  a  human 
recombinant  interferon  beta  in  which  the  native  cysteine  is  replaced  by  serine  at  position  17,  lacks 
methionine in position 1 and carbohydrate moieties, and is produced in E. coli cells. 
The  E.  coli  production  strain  contains  the  gene  for  interferon  beta-1b,  which  was  derived  from  the 
human  gene  for  interferon  beta  by  site  directed  mutagenesis  on  a  recombinant  plasmid.  In  order  to 
avoid any risks associated with material of bovine origin in the manufacturing process for Betaferon, a 
modified process for the generation of the Working Cell Bank has been established, in which a soya 
bean  extract  is  used.  The  strain  is  grown  in  a  minimal  salt/glucose  medium  using  standard 
fermentation  techniques.  The  cells  are  harvested,  disrupted  and  homogenised.  Interferon  beta-1b  is 
isolated  by  extraction  with  butanol  from  the  inclusion  bodies  obtained  after  centrifugation  of  the 
homogenated cells. It is purified by two successive size exclusion chromatography steps and is finally 
formulated with human serum albumin and dextrose and then lyophilised. After formulation the bulk 
product is filtered through two filters. 
The results of batch analyses suggested that specification limits could be tightened and the applicant 
has agreed to this. The specification for moisture content has been tightened accordingly. The revised 
specifications  and  analytical  methods  proposed  are  considered  adequate  to  ensure  quality  and 
consistency of the active ingredient and the finished product and all questions on quality raised during 
the assessment of the application have been answered to the satisfaction of the CPMP. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation provided post-authorisation 
The Company submitted additional chemical, biological and pharmaceutical information according to 
the specific obligations and follow up measures defined by the CPMP. 
The Company provided full data on development programme and has performed extensive studies on 
the  purity  and  by-products  resulting  in  variations  introducing  new  methods  and  amending 
specifications.  The  current  manufacturing  process  has  proved  to  produce  a  product  with  consistent 
quality, which has extensive clinical data.  
Clarification was required regarding the monitoring of the possible modification of an excipient. 
The data provided showed an improved and more robust stability profile.  
The Company applied for a new pharmaceutical form of Betaferon, in which the solvent vial is 
replaced with a pre-filled syringe in two pack sizes:  
15 vials containing interferon beta-1b and 15 pre-filled syringes containing solvent 
5 vials containing interferon beta-1b and 5 pre-filled syringes containing solvent 
The company justifies this proposed change for the convenience of the patients, particularly disabled 
patients. The use of the pre-filled syringe is expected to reduce the complexity of reconstitution of the 
lyophilised drug. The Company has therefore decided to replace on the market the presentations with 
the solvent vial for the presentations with the solvent in pre-filled syringes. 
The assessment of this application is based on the assessment report of the original dossier submitted, 
updated in the light of new data and analyses provided by the applicant. 
To support the new pharmaceutical form “pre-filled syringe” for the solvent, the applicant submitted 
full Part II information for this new presentation. 
No new data concerning toxico-pharmacological aspects and clinical aspects were submitted. 
The obligations and follow up measures have been satisfactorily fulfilled by the MAH. 
Manufacturing plants and inspection status 
Manufacturer of active substance: 
Boehringer Ingelheim Austria, A-1121 Vienna, Dr.-Boehringer-Gasse 5-11, Austria. 
2/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorisation delivered by Magistrat der Stadt Wien, on 30 May 1985. 
Authorisation delivered by the Bundesministerium für Gesundheit und Konsumentenschutz, Wien on 
30 January 1995. 
Chiron Corporation, 4560 Horton Street, Emeryville CA, USA. 
The Chiron manufacturing plant was subject to EU inspection on 11-12 May 1995. 
Manufacturer of solvent: 
B. Braun Medical S.A., Huelma 5, Poligono Industrial los Olivares, 23009 Jaen, Spain 
Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH & Co. KG, Schuetzenstrasse 99/101, D-88212 Ravensburg, 
Germany. 
Authorisation delivered by Regierungpräsidium, Tübingen, on 5 August 1996. 
GMP Certificate delivered by Regierungpräsidium, Tübingen, on 19 June 1996. 
Manufacturer of the dosage form: 
–Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, D- 88397 Biberach an der Riss, Germany. 
GMP Certificate delivered by Regierungpräsidium, Tübingen, on 5 March 1992. 
GMP Certificate delivered by Regierungpräsidium, Tübingen, on 3 February 1995. 
Chiron Corporation, 4560 Horton Street, Emeryville CA, USA. 
The Chiron manufacturing plant was subject to EU inspection on 11-12 May 1995 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release in the European Economic Area: 
Schering Aktiengesellschaft, D-13342 Berlin, Germany 
GMP  certificate  issued  by  Senatsverwaltung  für  Gesundheit  und  Soziales,  Berlin.  Schering 
Aktiengesellschaft, Germany is the marketing authorisation holder of the medicinal product Betaferon. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  mechanism  of  action  of  Interferon  beta  1-b  in  multiple  sclerosis  is  not  known,  but  plausible 
explanations have been proposed. 
The  biological  actions  of  interferon  beta-1b  include  antiviral  activity,  modulation  of  cytokine 
production/activity,  e.g.  inhibition  of  IFN,  IL-1,  and  TNF,  upregulation  of  TGFß  expression,  and 
alteration of dysregulated T cell function in multiple sclerosis. 
The preclinical pharmacokinetics of interferon beta-1b have been characterised in the African Green 
Monkey  by  measuring  interferon  beta-1b  serum  levels  after  intravenous,  intramuscular  and 
subcutaneous administration of the drug. Peak concentrations and AUC values were shown to increase 
after  multiple dosing. However, no accumulation of interferon beta-1b in serum was  observed when 
dosing frequency was less than once per day. 
The species specificity and antigenicity of the test compound influenced toxicological evaluation. Risk 
assessment  was  based  on  subacute  studies  in  monkeys,  in  which  typical  interferon  effects  such  as 
transient  hyperthermia  and  transient  haematological  alterations  were  observed.  Owing  to  specific 
antibody formation, no chronic studies were performed. 
Embryotoxicity studies revealed an abortive potential known to be characteristic for interferons. 
As exogeneously administered proteins are unlikely to interact with cellular DNA, genotoxicity testing 
was limited to the Ames test and a short-term in vitro transformation assay, showing negative results. 
During  the  centralised procedure,  questions regarding the  preclinical characterisation were answered 
comprehensively so that no issues were left open. 
3/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  clinical  pharmacodynamics  evaluation  of  Betaferon is  based  on  one  study in  healthy volunteers 
and is completed by data derived from pilot and phase III studies where also testing for antigenicity 
was carried out. 
From  the  study  conducted  in  healthy  volunteers  biological  markers  (neopterin,  beta-2  microglobulin 
and  2-5A  synthetase) were used  to compare  biological responses after  single  versus every-other-day 
dosing. There was a dose dependent elevation of cellular 2-5A synthetase (p <0.0001). The maximum 
response  occurred  at  24  h  post-administration.  Thereafter,  the  enzyme  level  decreased  steadily, 
however,  at  the  end  of  the  study  period  (72  h  post-administration),  the  elevation  from  baseline  was 
still significant. There is no information on the therapeutic effect of Betaferon in MS compared with 
either the biological effect and/or serum levels. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Serum  concentrations  of  interferon  beta-  l  b  are  low  or  not  detectable  following  subcutaneous 
administration of 0.25 mg (8 MIU) or less of Betaferon. As pharmacokinetic information in patients 
with MS receiving the recommended dose of Betaferon is not available, a new pharmacokinetic assay 
is under development. 
The  pharmacokinetics of  Betaferon has been investigated after intravenous  administration in healthy 
volunteers  and  in  patients  with  non-neurological  disease.  Following  intravenous  injection  of  0.5  mg 
(16 MIU, new standard) of Betaferon to healthy volunteers, serum activities rapidly decreased in two 
phases  with  mean  half-lives  of  0.42  and  4.35  hours.  Essentially  similar  results  were  obtained  in 
patients with non-neurologic disease at various dosages. The elimination half-life ranged between 2-5 
hours. Mean clearance rates were estimated to be at most 30 ml·min-1·kg -1. 
Maximum  serum  levels  of  about  40  IU·ml-1  were  found  1-8  hours  after  subcutaneous  injection  of 
0.5 mg (16 MIU) interferon beta-1b. 
Clinical Efficacy 
Efficacy in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
An overall summary of the main efficacy results is provided in the following table: 
Primary 
Annual exacerbation rate 
90 % CI 
No. subjects exacerbation free 
Secondary 
Median days to: 
- first exacerbation 
- second exacerbation 
(MRI) mean total lesion 
area in mm2 : baseline 
Mean change at endpoint1 
Mean EDSSa) 
- baseline 
- last value 
Mean Scripps 
- baseline 
- endpoint 
placebo 
n=112 
1.27 
1.12-1.43 
18 
1.6 MIUx 
n=111 
1.17$ 
1.03-1.33 
23 
153 
503 
2611 
509.1 
2.9 
3.1 
80.4 
80.3 
180 
556 
2750 
200.1 
2.9 
3.0 
81.0 
80.7 
8 MIUxx 
n=115 
0.84***,++ 
0.72-0.97 
36** 
295*, + 
>762**, + 
2392 
-100***,+ 
3.0 
2.9 
81.0 
81.8 
overall 
p value 
0.0001 
0.019 
0.030 
0.015 
0.0002 
0.827 
0.518 
0.872 
0.181 
4/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a)  Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 
*  
+ 
p < 0.05, 8 MIU vs placebo 
**   p < 0.01, 8 MIU vs placebo 
***  p < 0.005, 8 MIU vs placebo 
x 
new standard - equivalent to 9 MIU old standard 
xx   new standard - equivalent to 45 MIU old standard 
1   The  cohort  subject  to  frequent  MRI  scanning  showed  a  reduction  of  active  lesions  (=  new, 
 p < 0.05, 8 MIU vs 1.6 mIU 
 p < 0.01, 8 MIU vs 1.6 mIU 
 p < 0.05, 1.6 MIU vs placebo 
++ 
$ 
recurring, and enhancing lesions) by 59% (mean), new lesions were reduced by 62%. 
The  following  endpoints  were  considered  in  the  evaluation  of  the  efficacy  of Betaferon  in  relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis: 
Reduction in Relapse Rate 
In an analysis which examined the types of relapses observed, it was shown that the most impressive 
relapse reductions involved systems likely to be most disabling functionally, particularly the cerebellar 
and pyramidal systems, as well as the brainstem and the bladder.  
It was concluded that the reduction of the relapses was not of trivial clinical or social consequence. 
The reduction of relapse rate and relapse severity resulted in a reduction of steroid use, a mainstay of 
relapse therapy. 
A major benefit of the reduction in relapse rate is derived from the fact that not all patients recover 
fully from a relapse, i.e. incomplete remission is one means by which disability accumulates.  
The  number  of  hospitalisations  for  MS  was  substantially  reduced,  providing  further  evidence  that 
some of the relapses were indeed significant and that there was a saving in terms of handicap by the 
administration of interferon beta-1b. 
Disability 
Disability, a secondary endpoint in the interferon beta-1b trial, is extremely important from a clinical 
viewpoint. The data do not show a significant favourable effect over a two-year period on disability as 
assessed by the Scripps score or the EDSS. Given the relatively short duration of study and the small 
change in the EDSS in the placebo group, it was not possible to show a large beneficial effect upon 
disability even at 3 years. (see also section 6) 
Disease Burden 
Disease  burden  as  measured  by  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  was  a  surrogate  endpoint  in  the 
clinical  trials  of  interferon  beta-1b,  and  was  intended  to  provide  additional  evidence  that  patients 
benefit from treatment with IFN ß-1b. After three years of treatment, disease burden as measured by 
MRI was slightly reduced  in  the  group receiving the therapeutic dose  of  interferon  beta-1b, while it 
increased  by  about  20%  in  the  placebo  group.  The  group  differences  increased  progressively  with 
time, and gradually with dosage. However, it has not yet been proven that disease burden as measured 
by MRI demonstrates the disease process accurately, or that there is a correlation with disability.  
During  review,  additional  questions  were  raised  regarding  the  safety  and  efficacy  implications  of 
serum NA seen to develop in a significant proportion of patients receiving Betaferon therapy. 
During  the  formal  hearing  held  at  the  CPMP  meeting  on  16  May  1995,  the  company  presented 
proposals for additional post-approval studies to further elucidates the effects of serum NA on clinical 
safety and efficacy. 
The chemistry and pharmaceutical data submitted in the application were judged sufficient to support 
product quality, pending clarification on specific issues. 
After considerable dialogue, the preclinical data presented were judged to be sufficient to prove safety 
in  view  of  the  limited  applicability  of  standard  toxicological  approaches  to  evaluating  the  effect  of 
species-specific bioactive proteins. 
5/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The therapeutic efficacy of interferon beta-1b at a dose of 8 MIU given subcutaneously on alternate 
days outweighs any adverse events likely to occur.  
These data were judged sufficient for approval on the light of the current scientific knowledge. 
Efficacy in secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (data submitted post-authorisation) 
As  part  of  the  clinical  specific  obligations  set  out  by  the  CPMP  and  agreed  upon  by  the  MAH 
additional data were to be provided as follows: 
The Company submitted a report of the study conducted in Europe on the Secondary Progressive form 
of  Multiple  Sclerosis  (SPMS).  The  data  submitted  to  support  the  variation  application  for  the 
extension  of  the  indication  to  include  Secondary  Progressive  Multiple  Sclerosis  (SPMS),  are  the 
results of a prospectively planned interim analysis in a Phase III study in 718 patients suffering from 
the secondary progressive form of multiple sclerosis. The study was a double-blind placebo-controlled 
multicentre  study.  The  study  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  8 MIU  interferon 
beta-1b given subcutaneously on alternate days for up to 3 years to outpatients with SPMS. 
The trial was a 3 year randomised multi-centre double blind placebo controlled study. Sample size was 
determined  on  the  assumptions  that  the  proportion  of  patients  with  confirmed  progression  in  the 
placebo group would be 50% at 3 years, and that a treatment difference of 12.5% was to be detected – 
considering one prospectively planned efficacy interim analysis and taking drop-outs into account. 
An  interim  analysis  of  efficacy  was  prospectively  planned  to  be  conducted  after  all  patients  had 
completed at least 2 years of treatment. An independent Advisory Board reviewed results. The interim 
analysis of data up to November 20, 1997 led to a recommendation to terminate the study, based on 
evidence of efficacy as defined prospectively by a level of significance of p=0.0133 for the primary 
endpoint in the ITT (Intention To Treat) population (n=718). The interim analysis relates to the safety 
and efficacy results, comprising data for all patients up to 24 months, plus all data available from the 
third year of the study for Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), relapses and safety at the 
interim cut off date. 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  time  to  a  confirmed  increase  by  1  point  on  the  EDSS  from 
baseline if the entry score was 3.0 to 5.5, or 0.5 points on the EDSS if the baseline score was 6.0 or 
The increased score had to be maintained for 3 months before progression was confirmed. 
Secondary and Tertiary Efficacy Variables were: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Proportion of patients with confirmed progression. 
Time to becoming wheelchair bound (EDSS 7.0). 
EDSS at endpoint. 
Reduction of relapse rate where relapses were defined as  
• new neurological abnormality or the reappearance of a previous neurological abnormality  
• lasting more than 24 hours  
in a patient who  
- had been stable, was improving or slowly progressing in the previous 30 days.  
- and in whom there was no infection, fever or withdrawal of steroid medication at the time of 
the relapse.  
A relapse was considered verified if evaluated by a Clinician within 14 days of its occurrence. Only 
verified relapses were used in these analyses. 
The  results  of  the  study  can  be  summarised  as  follows:  Compared  with  placebo,  patients  (baseline 
EDSS 3 to 6.5) receiving Betaferon showed a statistically significant delay in time (several months) to 
progression of multiple sclerosis. The treatment effect occurred in patients with and without relapses 
and at all levels of disability investigated (patients with mild disease and those unable to walk were 
not  studied).  Patients  receiving  Betaferon  also  showed  a  statistically  significant  delay  in  the  time 
6/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(several  months)  to  become  wheelchair-bound  when  compared  with  placebo.  Secondary  progressive 
multiple  sclerosis  patients  receiving  Betaferon  showed  a  reduction  in  frequency  (30%)  of  clinical 
relapses. There is no evidence of an effect of Betaferon on the duration of exacerbations. Details are 
presented in the following tables and figures. 
Table 1: Summary of primary and secondary efficacy results in the ITT population (n=718) 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
(n=358) 
IFNß-1b 
(n=360) 
Time to confirmed progression 1) 
Estimated survival rates 2): Year 1 
  Year 2 
  Month 33 
Time to becoming wheelchair-bound 2) 
Estimated survival rates 2): Year 1 
  Year 2 
  Month 36 
Mean annual relapse rate 3) 
0.71 
0.53 
0.47 
0.90 
0.81 
0.66 
0.64 
0.81 
0.65 
0.58 
0.96 
0.89 
0.77 
0.44 
p-value 
0.0008 
0.0031 
0.0012 
0.0015 
0.0133 
0.0129 
0.0094 
0.0133 
0.0002 
Mantel-Haenszel  test  for  covariance  adjusted  logrank  scores  with  covariance  adjustment  for  
baseline EDSS and stratification adjustment for centre (non-parametric analysis of covariance) 
Mantel-Cox logrank test with stratification adjustment for baseline EDSS category 
Mantel-Haenszel  test  with  covariance  adjustment  for  relapses  in  2  years  prior  to  study  and 
stratification adjustment for centre. 
Figure 1: Life-table estimate – Time to confirmed progression 
Primary efficacy variable: Time to confirmed progression
Life-table estimate
ITT population
100
%)
(
e
t
a
r
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Basel.
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
27
30
33
36
Time (months) to confirmed progression
Treatment:
Placebo [N=358]
Interferon beta-1b [N=360]
7/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Summary of tertiary and additional efficacy results in the ITT population (n=718) 
Endpoints 
Proportion of patients  
with confirmed EDSS increase: 
Patients lost to follow-up counted as 
progressed (ITT-A analysis) 1, 2) 
Proportion  of  patients  with  confirmed 
EDSS increase (ITT-B analysis) 1, 2) 
Additional analysis: 
Proportion of patients becoming 
wheelchair-bound 
Placebo 
(n=358) 
IFNß-1b 
(n=360) 
p-value 
55.0% 
49.7% 
24.6% 
44.2% 
0.0056 
38.9% 
0.0048 
16.7% 
0.0277 
Efficacy variables included in the review of the interim data set of the independent Advisory Board 
Mantel-Haenszel test with stratification adjustment for baseline EDSS 
Figure 2: Life-table estimate – Time to becoming wheelchair bound 
Secondary efficacy variable: Time to becoming wheelchair bound
Life-table estimate
ITT population
)
 % 
(
e
t
a
r
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
d
e
t
a
 m 
i
t
s
E
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Basel.
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
27
30
33
36
Time (months) to becoming wheelchair bound
Treatment:
Placebo [N=358]
Interferon beta-1b [N=360]
Clinical safety 
Clinical safety in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
At the time of the submission of the dossier, a total of 3067 patients received Betaferon in 73 studies 
of  whom  407  participated  in  the  MS  studies.  Data  are  provided  from  patients  with  a  variety  of 
conditions, and who were treated with interferon beta-1b at dosages of up to 28 MIU daily (160 MIU 
of the old WHO standard). 
Four  hundred  and  seven  patients  with  MS  have  been  assessed  for  adverse  events,  277  received  IFN 
and 130 placebo. Interferon beta-1b injections at a dosage of 8 MIU or less in patients with MS caused 
short-lived fever, myalgia, and malaise; events lessened over the first 3-6 months. Local inflammatory 
reactions  at  the  site  of  the  injection  were  common  and,  in  a  proportion  of  patients,  necrosis  was 
reported  at  the  injection  site.  Injection  site  necrosis  may  occur  at  single  or  multiple  injection  sites, 
sometimes leading to scar formation. 
Other  serious  adverse  events  were  observed  during  the  treatment  with  Betaferon,  even  though  they 
were  not  unequivocally  related  to  interferon  beta-1b  administration  like  convulsions  and  attempted 
suicide.  
8/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among laboratory abnormalities observed during the treatment with Betaferon, reversible leukopenia 
as well as elevated SGOT and SGPT were a frequent occurrence. 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions (rare but severe acute reactions such as bronchospasm, anaphylaxis 
and  urticaria)  may  occur.  If  reactions  are  severe,  Betaferon  should  be  discontinued  and  appropriate 
medical intervention instituted. 
Clinical safety in secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis (data submitted post-authorisation) 
Clinically  relevant  laboratory  abnormalities  occurred  rarely  and  for  the  most  part  were  evenly 
distributed  among  placebo  and  IFNB-1b  treated  patients.  As  expected,  IFNB-1b-treatment  was 
significantly  associated  with  elevations  of  transaminases  and  decreased  values  for  leukocytes, 
neutrophils and lymphocytes. Toxicity grades 3 and 4 were rare for transaminase elevations, as were 
hematologic  parameters,  being  associated  with  active  treatment  for  lymphopenia  only  (placebo 
patients 7.5% vs. IFNB-1b patients 21.7%). 
Serious adverse events: most of the SAEs reported during the study were MS-related. Non-MS related 
SAEs were comparably distributed between treatment groups in all body systems with the exception 
of injection site events (0 placebo patients vs. 8* (2.2%) IFNB-1b patients). Four patients died during 
the  study,  3  of  which  were  in  the  IFNB-1b  group.  One  patient  in  each  treatment  group  committed 
suicide.  Of  the  other  two  deaths  in  the  IFNB-1b  group,  one  patient  died  of  bronchopneumonia  with 
lung oedema, and another of pulmonary embolism. 
Muscular  hypertonia  was  reported  significantly  more  often  in  the  IFNB-1b  group  (37.8%  patients) 
than in the placebo group (27.4% patients).  
Other  significant  adverse  events:  injection  site  necrosis  was  reported  in  4.7%  of  patients  receiving 
IFNB-1b,  consistent  with  previously  reported  frequencies  of  this  event.  Flu-like  symptom  complex 
(fever,  chills,  myalgia,  malaise  or  sweating)  has  been  seen  frequently.  The  incidence  rate  of  the 
symptoms  decreased  over  time.  There  were  5  suicide  attempts  in  the  placebo  group*  (1.4%)  and  3 
suicide attempts in the IFNB-1b group (0.8%) (Including one patient in either group, who committed 
suicide). Neither the AE/SAE evaluations nor the MADRS (Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating 
Scale) scores indicated any elevated risk of IFNB-1b to develop depression or have suicidal thoughts. 
Persistence of effect  
The persistence of effect in patients with Remitting Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis was not satisfactorily 
addressed by the information available at marketing authorisation. The CPMP agreed that it might be 
addressed  by  data  generated  in  the  third  year  of  treatment  in  the  two  studies  in  SPMS  (secondary 
progressive multiple sclerosis).  For secondary progressive multiple sclerosis efficacies for a period of 
two  years  with  limited  data  for  a  period  of  up  to  three  years  of  treatment  have  been  demonstrated 
under controlled clinical-trial conditions. With respect to the NAB status following discontinuation of 
therapy, it was considered that the SPMS study might supply useful information. The CPMP requested 
that  patients  should  be  followed  up  to  1  year  after  the  study  has  been  completed,  and  the  analysis 
should  include  evaluation  of  NAB  titre  as  a  continuous  variable  and  relation  to  multiple  endpoints 
explored. 
Serum Neutralising Activity in relapsing remitting MS 
Relapsing-remitting  multiple  sclerosis  patients treated with  interferon beta-1b was  monitored for the 
development  of  serum  neutralising  activity  (NA).  Neutralising  activity  was  defined  as  the  ability  of 
patient sera to reverse or neutralise the antiviral effect of interferon beta-1b, protecting cells in culture 
from  being  killed  by  viral  infection.  This  assay  method  shows  significant  variability,  with  many 
patients being only transiently positive despite continued treatment with interferon beta-1b. If positive 
is defined as two consecutive positive values, typically 3 months apart, 65% of patients were negative 
when  tested  subsequently.  Over  three  years,  35%  of  patients  receiving  recommended  doses  of 
interferon beta- 1b were found to have NA at two or more consecutive observations. 
The  primary  analysis  of  efficacy  was  based  on  the  2-year  data  set.  Patients  receiving  8  MIU  of 
interferon  beta-1b  showed  no  difference  in  the  relapse  rate  between  the  NA-positive  and  the  NA-
negative groups when relapse rates from baseline to years 1 and 2 were considered. When the data are 
* One patient not included in frozen database. 
9/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
examined  at  6-monthly  intervals,  a  trend  is  evident  in  the  period  from  19-24  months  suggesting  a 
higher relapse rate in patients with NA compared to those without. 
In  an  additional  analysis  of  patients  with  two  consecutive  positive  titres  in  the  3-year  database,  this 
trend is confirmed and the difference becomes significant in the 19-24 months period. 
It  can  be  seen  that  the  relapse  rate  was  significantly  higher  in  the  NA-positive  patients  up  to  30 
months, but then this difference was lost for the final 6 months (31-36 months). 
It is noted that there was a correspondingly lower relapse rate in the NA-negative group during these 
periods. 
However, the greater effect seen in the  negative  group was camouflaged in the  common analysis of 
both groups, leading to an underestimation of the efficacy of the drug. 
Analysis of the percentage change of the total lesion area as detected by MRI done at yearly intervals 
showed no significant difference and no trend was seen between the NA-positive and the NA-negative 
subjects in any of the three years. In contrast, there is a suggestion that the numbers of new lesions and 
enlarging lesions are greater in the NA-positive patients than the NA-negative patients. With respect to 
the new lesions, these differences are not quite significant but, interestingly, the enlarging lesions are 
significantly more frequent after the first year in the positive group. 
There was no evidence of increased frequency of any adverse events in patients who developed NA. 
Indeed, there is some indication that the flu-like symptoms commonly seen after interferon 
administration may be less frequent in patients who develop NA. 
This development of NA is associated with a reduction in clinical efficacy as measured by relapse rate, 
becoming evident at 19-24 months; however high titres of NA within individual patients do not appear 
to be associated with any evidence of  worsening compared to the baseline.  
Neutralising Antibodies (data submitted post-authorisation) 
A new, sensitive and reliable assay has been developed after the marketing authorisation was granted, 
for the determination of neutralising activity. 
Using  this  new  assay  it  has  been  shown  that  the  neutralising  antibodies  against  the  recombinant 
interferon beta-1b also interact with endogenous interferon beta albeit to a lesser extent.  
The original analyses of NA effects did not take into consideration the relapse rate before becoming 
NA  positive,  further  analyses  have,  therefore,  recently  been  performed,  which  adjusted  for  possible 
time trends over the course of the trial. Definitions for NA positivity were the same as for the original 
analysis  and  were  based  on  data  obtained  from  the  recently  developed  MxA  neutralisation  activity 
assay and on the full 5-year data set.  
The results based on the 5 years of available longitudinal data from the pivotal trial and its extension 
did not support an unequivocal conclusion that in individual patients the change from an NA negative 
to an NA positive status is associated with a diminished effectiveness of interferon beta-1b.  
Autoimmunity (data submitted post-authorisation) 
In  order  to  evaluate  a  possible  association  of  increased  risk  of  autoimmune-mediated  disease, 
following discussions with experts, it was recommended to re-analyse pooled data of the two pivotal 
studies in RRMS and SPMS. All possible instances of autoimmune disease should be identified. The 
sample size was considered to provide a sufficient study power to assess whether there is an important 
associated risk of Betaferon treatment with regard to autoimmune-mediated disease. After completion 
and unblinding the data of the currently ongoing North American trial in SPMS could also be included 
in such an analysis. In addition, data will become available from an open-label study. 
For the 4th annual re-assessment, the MAH submitted analyses regarding autoantibodies of sera from 
the European SPMS study. The study included 718 patients with SPMS participating in a randomised, 
double blind placebo controlled evaluation of hepatic function, thyroid function and assessment of a 
wide  range  of  AAbs.  The  submitted  data  provide  re-assurance  over  a  24-  month  period  that  no 
clinically relevant adverse effect on autoimmune function has been detected in the patient population 
studied. 
10/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Postmarketing Experience 
According  to  Commission  Regulation  (EEC)  2309/93  and  to  the  specific  obligations  stated  in 
Annex II.C  of  the  Commission  Decision  of  30  November  1995  and  in  chapter  II  of  the  CPMP 
Assessment  Report  (CPMP/213/95),  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  submitted  during  the 
concerned  period  the  requested  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  (PSURs)  and  line  listings.  The 
evaluation of this data is presented in this section. 
Interferon beta-1b has been registered in the USA since July 1993 under the trade name Betaseron for 
use  in  ambulatory  patients  with  relapsing-remitting  multiple  sclerosis  to  reduce  the  frequency  of 
clinical exacerbations. Since registration,  over  40,000  patients have been treated  with  the  product in 
the USA. Apart from  the  USA and the  EU (November 1995),  Betaferon is currently authorised in a 
number of other countries including Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and several Asian 
and Latin American countries. 
Based  on  the  analysis  of  post-approval  drug  experience  reports  and  on  the  Periodic  Safety  Update 
Reports submitted at six-month intervals, as part of the drug surveillance program to be carried out in 
line with the existing EU legislation, further information has been accrued.  
The SPC and PL texts have been updated and extended to include additional information on possible 
injection  site  necrosis,  drug  induced  hepatitis,  thrombocytopenia  with  profound  decreases  in  platelet 
count in rare cases with recommendations to minimise such reactions. 
Since the second annual re-assessment changes to the safety sections of the SPC were proposed and 
were the subject of positive opinion by CPMP: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
addition of statements on cardiomyopathy and on the development of capillary leak syndrome 
in patients with monoclonal gammopathy to section 4.4 of the SPC 
addition of cardiomyopathy to section 4.8 of the SPC 
addition of muscular hypertonia to Section 4.8 of the SPC 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
"... Rare cases of thyroid dysfunction (hyper- as well as hypothyroidism) associated with the use 
of Betaferon have been reported." 
There was said to be no increased frequency of listed reactions during the review period.  
There  were  no  reports  of  drug  interaction,  overdose  or  abuse.  No  negative  effects  of  long-term 
treatment were identified.  
Since  the  third  annual  re-assessment  changes  to  the  safety  sections  of  the  SPC  were  proposed  and 
were the subject of positive opinion by CPMP: 
• 
Addition of dyspnoea and lymphadenopathy to section 4.8 of the SPC 
5.  Overall conclusions and benefit/risk balance 
Multiple sclerosis is a serious neurological disease affecting the central nervous system including the 
spinal  cord,  resulting  in  significant  morbidity  as  well  as  progressive  disability  in  many  afflicted 
individuals. The underlying aetiology is not clearly understood. 
All currently available therapeutic interventions are non-specific and largely symptomatic in nature. 
Because of the significant unmet clinical need for specific treatment for multiple sclerosis, the initial 
Betaferon  application-containing  results  from  two  pivotal  studies  with  372  patients  was  accepted  is 
support of the therapeutic indication for the treatment of Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis. 
The  CPMP  Members  have,  during  the  first  review  process,  agreed  that  the  application  contains 
adequate clinical data to support clinical safety and efficacy, allowing a positive recommendation for 
marketing approval for the treatment of Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis. 
11/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MA  Holder  has  stipulated  several  pharmaceutical  and  clinical  follow-up  measures  as  requiring 
action: most of the pharmaceutical follow-up measures were satisfactorily fulfilled and some required 
additional studies. 
With regard to the clinical specific obligations, the decision to stop the trial in patients with SPMS was 
supported by the evidence presented. The CPMP and the European Commission approved the SPMS 
indication  for  the  use  of  Betaferon  after  submission  of  the  dossier  and  full  review  of  all  data.  The 
Company  will  also  submit  a  report  of  the  study  conducted  in  the  USA  /  Canada  on  the  secondary 
progressive form of multiple sclerosis. 
In view of the specific obligations on neutralising antibodies all patients from the studies in secondary 
progressive  MS  should  be  followed  up  irrespective  of  early  termination  in  order  to  provide  further 
long-term data on NAB in relation to safety and efficacy. 
Additional data was provided after authorisation relevant to pharmaceutical and biological aspects as 
well as clinical aspects. 
The SPC and PIL have been amended to reflect the additional clinical safety evaluations carried out by 
the CPMP within the assessment of the PSURs submitted and of various applications for variations to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation. 
On the basis of additional clinical efficacy data submitted post-authorisation the CPMP recommended 
the  extension  of  the  indication  to  include  Secondary  Progressive  Multiple  Sclerosis  (SPMS).  The 
European  Commission  issued  a  corresponding  decision  on  26  January  1999.  On  the  basis  of  the 
additional efficacy and safety data provided, the benefit/risk profile for Betaferon remained in favour 
of the drug in the context of the serious condition being treated.  
The CPMP re-assessed annually the benefit risk profile of Betaferon on the basis of the information 
generated during the first five years of marketing of Betaferon. At the meeting on 14 December 2000, 
the  CPMP,  having  reviewed  the  fifth  annual  reassessment  and  the  compliance  with  the  specific 
obligations  submitted  by  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder,  considered  that  the  MAH  has  made 
progress in fulfilling all outstanding obligations and most of the follow-up measures. Since all specific 
obligations as agreed between the Applicant and the CPMP on 12 July 1995 have been fulfilled, there 
are no remaining grounds for the Marketing Authorisation to be kept under exceptional circumstances. 
On  14  December  2000,  the  CPMP  recommended  therefore  that  the  Marketing  Authorisation  for 
Betaferon  would  be  released  from  the  status  “under  exceptional  circumstances”.  At  that  moment, 
however,  efficacy  in  SPMS  based  on  the  outcome  of  the  North  American  SPMS  study  was  under 
review in a separate type II variation procedure (see section 6). 
Revision  of  the  indication  following  results  of  the  NA  SPMS  study  (submitted  post  –
6. 
authorisation) 
Betaferon was granted an EU authorisation in November 1995 under exceptional circumstances for the 
indication of relapsing-remitting MS for “ the reduction of frequency and degree of severity of clinical 
relapses in ambulatory patients (i.e. patients who are able to walk unaided), characterised by at least 
two attacks of neurological dysfunction over the preceding two year period, followed by complete or 
incomplete recovery. Patients receiving Betaferon showed a reduction in frequency (30%) and severity 
of clinical relapses, as well as the number of hospitalisations due to disease. Furthermore, there was a 
prolongation of the relapse-free interval. There is no evidence of an effect of Betaferon on the duration 
of exacerbations, on symptoms in between exacerbations, or of the progression of the disease. There is 
also no evidence of an effect on disability in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis”.  
As  part  of  the  specific  obligations  the  Company  was  requested  to  submit  a  report  of  the  study 
conducted  in  Europe  (a)  and  in  the  USA/Canada  (b)  on  the  secondary  progressive  form  of  multiple 
sclerosis:  (a) Double -blind, placebo-controlled multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy 
of  8  MIU  Interferon  beta-1b  vs  placebo.  (b)  Double-blind,  placebo  controlled  multicenter  study  to 
evaluate the safety and efficacy of two doses of Intereron beta-1b (8MIU per dose; 4.9 MIU/m2 body 
surface  areas).  Both  studies  had  been  terminated  early,  the  former  due  to  efficacy,  the  latter  due  to 
futility considerations. 
12/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the results of the European study Betaferon was granted an extension of the indication in 
secondary progressive multiple sclerosis for: 
“  slowing  progression  of  disease  and  for  the  reduction  of  frequency  of  clinical  relapses.  Compared 
with  placebo,  patients  receiving  Betaferon  showed  a  statistically  significant  delay  in  time  to 
progression of multiple sclerosis. The treatment effect occurred in patients with and without relapses 
and at all levels of  disability investigated (patients with mild  disease  and those unable to walk were 
not  studied).  Patients  receiving  Betaferon  also  showed  a  statistically  significant  delay  in  the  time  to 
become  wheelchair-bound  when  compared  with  placebo.  See  also  Section  5.1  “Pharmacodynamic 
properties”. Secondary progressive multiple sclerosis patients receiving Betaferon showed a reduction 
in frequency (30%) of clinical relapses. There is no evidence of an effect of Betaferon on the duration 
of exacerbations. 
The present variation has been submitted in the context of the clinical obligation related to the North 
American  (NA)  clinical  study  in  SPMS.  Based  on  the  results  of  this  study  the  MAH  proposed  to 
clarify the existing SPMS indication for Betaferon by adding: 
“in  patients  with  active  disease.  Active  disease  is  evidenced  by  concurrent  relapses  or  pronounced 
neurological deterioration (EDSS>1.0 points in the previous 2 years.” 
The NA study failed to show any significant differences between Betaferon and placebo with respect 
to efficacy in terms of slowing progression of disability in SPMS. As the design of the EU and NA  
studies were very similar, an attempt have been made by the MAH to provide an explanation. In the 
submission  of  this  variation  various  issues  were  raised  relating  to  differences  in  patient  populations 
between the EU and NA studies. NA patients are older and have disease of longer duration. Rates of 
progression  in  the  placebo-treated  patients  were  significantly  different  between  the  two  studies, 
however it was not clear if these differences would account for the conflicting results.  
At  the  request  of  the  CPMP,  the  MAH  has  provided  a  formal  meta-analysis  of  the  efficacy  of 
Betaferon in SPMS with respect to time to progression of disability. In general, the meta-analysis has 
been  performed  using  appropriate  statistical  methodology.  The  magnitude  of  the  effect  of  Betaferon 
treatment  was  clearly  higher  in  the  EU  study.  However,  compared  with  placebo,  a  statistically 
significant effect was observed for the licensed 8 MIU dose of IFNB when data from the two studies 
was  pooled.  Given  the  highly  significant  and  clinically  relevant  results  of  the  EU-SPMS  study, 
combined  with  the  significant  result  from  the  meta-analysis,  it  seems  clear  that  Betaferon  has  some 
efficacy in this condition. 
In  the  clinically  defined  subgroups  of  patients  with  relapses  and/or  changes  in  EDSS>1,  there  is  no 
evidence of lack of homogeneity across the studies. However, a non-significant p-value when testing 
for  a  difference  does  not  confirm  that  no  difference  exists.  These  analyses  cannot  therefore  be 
interpreted  as  confirmatory  evidence  that  no  heterogeneity  exists  in  these  subgroups.  For  each 
subgroup, these statistical tests should be used alongside clinical judgement of the differences between 
the hazard ratios observed in each trial.  
Analyses according to prior disease activity are supportive of a greater effect in patients with a higher 
disease activity as defined by relapse and EDSS criteria independently.  
The  meta-analysis  confirmed  the  effects  of  Betaferon  on  time  to  progression  of  disability  as  being 
heterogeneous  in  the  two  SPMS  trials  but  offers  no  explanation  for  this  heterogeneity  in  terms  of 
baseline covariates.  
Since both studies were terminated early, the EU due to attained efficacy endpoints and the NA due to 
futility considerations, the MAH was asked to consider potential bias. It appears that the possibility of 
bias  does  exist  with  the  early  termination  of  the  2  studies,  however,  such  bias  would  be  small. 
Therefore,  it  is  doubted  that  the  meta-analysis  has  been  unduly  affected.  In  particular,  because  the 
potential  biases  in  the  two  studies  were  in  different  directions,  the  test  for  homogeneity  of  the 
treatment effect in the meta-analysis is conservative. 
The  MAH  was  asked  to  justify  the  inclusion  of  EDSS-based  criteria  in  addition  to  relapse-based 
criteria in identifying SPMS patients suitable for treatment with Betaferon. 
13/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  summary  of  differences  between  the  EU  and  NA  SPMS  studies,  including  a  table  comparing 
baseline  and  demographic  characteristics  and  summary  statistics  and  figures  of  on-study  disease 
activity for patients on placebo were presented. Post hoc subgroup analyses are presented on the NA 
and  EU  SPMS  trials  separately  to  investigate  the  effect  of  pre-trial  disease  activity  on  efficacy 
outcome. The subgroups are formed according to frequency of relapses and progression of EDSS > 1 
in the two years prior to study. 
There is no evidence to suggest that change in EDSS is not a useful predictor of efficacy and some of 
these explanatory analyses suggest it probably is useful. It would appear that the use of relapse and 
EDSS criteria to identify disease activity and likelihood of a clinical response to Betaferon in SPMS 
patients is justified and can be reflected in the authorised indication. 
There  was  no  convincing  evidence  of  efficacy  in  patients  without  relapses  who  are  still  progressing 
(EDSS>1).  The  CPMP  was  also  concerned  about  the  lack  of  effect  of  Betaferon  on  disease 
progression in SPMS. These concerns were endorsed by the CPMP Ad Hoc group on beta interferons, 
which met on 28 May 2001. In their response document, the MAH has provided data from the existing 
plus  additional  post-hoc  analyses  in  sub-groups  of  patients  according  to  relapse  rates  and  EDSS 
criteria. Based on these data the MAH concluded that in their view: 
• 
• 
Pronounced pre-study EDSS progression is a relevant modified of treatment response 
Sub-groups  selected  for  the  relapse-related  disease  activity  at  baseline  as  defined  by  total 
relapses, >=2 relapses, and exactly 1 relapse do not differ with regards to “prediction” treatment 
response 
There is insufficient evidence to limit the criteria defining “active disease” to “relapses” only 
Progression is related to baseline disease activity as shown by EDSS progression in the prior 2 
years (observation in the placebo groups) 
• 
• 
The data provided show consistently in all analyses that relapse activity of >=2 in 2 years does not 
materially differ from 1 relapse in 2 years in terms of correlation with response rate; confidence 
intervals for hazard ratios for such comparisons are all very similar. 
Based on the data provided it is concluded that 
• 
Presence of relapses correlates to the likelihood of effect but the latter appears to be independent 
of exact number of relapses 
Patients with 1 relapse and EDSS progression > 1 point may respond 
Patients with no relapses are unlikely to respond, irrespective of EDSS 
• 
• 
The  analyses presented  do appear to indicate trends for  predicting treatment response  based both on 
relapses and changes in EDSS. However, because of the retrospective nature of these analyses and the 
unclear rationale concerning the role of the EDSS, the data are not considered sufficiently convincing 
to  be  included  in  section  4.1  of  the  SPC.  Following  discussions  at  the  CPMP  the  statement  “or 
pronounced  neurological  deterioration  (EDSS  >  1  point  or  >  0.5  for  EDSS  >  =  6)  within  the  last  2 
years.” was deleted from the indication (4.1 of the SPC) and a suitable statement was considered based 
on the above findings regarding patients with relapses as well as EDSS increase in the previous two 
years of >1 point (or >0.5 point for EDSS >=6), for inclusion in section 5.1 of the Betaferon SPC. 
The indication for Betaferon was modified as follows: 
(cid:190)  “Betaferon is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
and  2  or  more  relapses  within  the  last  2  years.  Betaferon  is  also  indicated  for  patients  with 
secondary progressive multiple sclerosis with active disease, evidenced by relapses. 
14/14 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
