London, 01 June 2006 
Product name: BETAFERON 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/00081/II/0038 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common, non-traumatic cause of neurologic dysfunction in young adults, 
and is the commonest disabling neurological disease of young people in the northern temperate zones. 
The highest prevalence is in Northern Europe (> 200/100,000 in Scotland). The estimated number of 
newly diagnosed cases in Europe is more than 10,000 per year. The median age of onset is 33 years.  
Betaferon was approved in the European Union in November 1995 in the relapsing-remitting multiple 
sclerosis (RRMS) and in January 1999 in the secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS).  
The RRMS indication was granted based on two randomized, placebo-controlled trials in patients with 
RRMS which showed that IFN beta-1b administered subcutaneously (s.c.) at a dose of 250 µg every 
other day (e.o.d.) reduces the frequency and severity of relapses, and reduces the development of brain 
lesions  as  measured  by  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  (IFNB  Multiple  Sclerosis  Study  Group 
1993, Paty 1993). 
The  SPMS  indication  was  granted  based  on  a  randomized,  placebo-controlled  trial  conducted  in 
patients with SPMS, in which IFN beta-1b given s.c. at a dose of 250 µg e.o.d. was shown to delay 
disease  progression  as  measured  by  the  Expanded  Disability  Status  Scale  (EDSS;  Kurtzke  1983).  It 
also  showed  benefits  for  relapse  and  MRI-related  endpoints  (European  Study  Group  on  Interferon 
beta-1b in Secondary Progressive MS 1998).  
Betaferon is currently authorized with the following indications: 
- 
Treatment  of  patients  with  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis  and  two  or  more  relapses 
within the last two years.  
Treatment  of  patients  with  secondary  progressive  multiple  sclerosis  with  active  disease, 
evidenced by relapses. 
- 
Within  the  last  years,  increasing  evidence  has  been  obtained  from  the  literature  that  more  frequent 
clinical events indicative of a stronger inflammatory disease activity in the early course of the disease 
result in a more rapid accumulation of neurological deficits (Comi 2000; Chofflon 2000).  It therefore 
has  been  proposed  that  the  disease  should  be  treated  early  with  disease  modifying  treatments,  thus 
preventing or delaying the initiation or progression of irreversible neurodegenerative processes. 
Treatment  with  IFNB  has  also  been  evaluated  in  patients  with  a  first  clinical  demyelinating  event 
before the diagnosis of clinically definite MS (CDMS) was made. In such patients, two studies have 
recently  demonstrated  beneficial  effects  of  two  IFNB  -1a  preparations  using  a  once-weekly 
administration schedule (Jacobs et al. 2000 and Comi et al. 2001).  
Therefore,  since  the  original  authorization  of  Betaferon,  initiation  of  IFNB  treatment  as  early  as 
possible to achieve maximum therapeutic effects have been encouraged by clinical experts. 
Based on the results of a 2-year randomized, controlled study investigating the safety, tolerability and 
efficacy of Betaferon treatment in patients with a first clinical demyelinating event suggestive of MS 
(BENEFIT study), the MAH applied to add the following indication to the already authorised ones:  
“Betaferon is indicated for the treatment of patients with a single clinical event suggestive of multiple 
sclerosis and at least two clinically silent MRI lesions, if alternative diagnoses have been excluded.” 
The MAH also proposes to update SPC section 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic properties) to include the new 
clinical  data  generated  by  the  BENEFIT  study,  as  well  as  sections  4.2,  4.4  and  4.8.  Finally,  the 
Package Leaflet is revised according to these changes. 
2/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Not applicable 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Not applicable 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH. The MAH has 
also  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Not applicable  
Pharmacodynamics 
Not applicable 
Clinical efficacy  
The  clinical  efficacy  programme  was  based  on  the  BENEFIT  study,  a  multi-center,  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, parallel-group, two-arm, randomized study in patients with a first (single) clinical 
demyelinating event suggestive of MS. The study enrolled patients after the onset of a single clinical 
event suggestive of MS (often referred to as “Clinically Isolated Syndrome”, “CIS”).  
To  further  explore  the  long-term  effects  of  early  Betaferon  treatment  in  patients  with  CIS,  patients 
who reached  end of the BENEFIT study due to CDMS or after 24 month of double blind treatment 
were  offered  enrolment  in  a  pre-planned  open-label  follow-up  extension  of  the  trial.  The  follow-up 
study will examine all patients for a total observation period of 60 months after start of treatment in 
the  BENEFIT  study.  Relapses,  neurological  disability  and  patient  reported  health  outcomes  will  be 
evaluated, among other outcome variables. 
METHODS 
Objectives 
The objective of the study was to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 250 µg (8 million 
international  units)  Betaferon  s.c.  e.o.d.  over  a  period  of  up  to  24  months  in  patients  with  a  first 
clinical demyelinating event suggestive of MS. 
Study Participants  
The study enrolled patients within 60 days after the onset of a single clinical event suggestive of MS, 
based  on  the  appearance  of  a  new  neurological  abnormality  which  had  to  be  present  for  at  least  24 
hours. T2-weighted brain MRI scan had to show at least two clinically silent lesions with a size of at 
least 3 mm, at least one of which had to be ovoid or periventricular or infratentorial. Patients were of 
age  18  to  45  years,  with  an  EDSS  of  (cid:1)  5.0  and  could  have  a  monofocal  or  multifocal  onset  of  the 
disease. Any disease other than MS that could better explain patients´ signs and symptoms had to be 
3/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
excluded. Patients with complete transverse myelitis or bilateral optic neuritis as well as patients who 
had  received  prior  immunosuppressant  therapy  were  also  excluded.  The  MAH  also  clarified  that 
patients with neurological symptoms (including visual disturbance) lasting less than 24 hours prior to 
the index period (i.e. first episode with neurological symptoms lasting more than 24 hours) were not 
eligible for the study. Steroid treatment of the first event, based on a treatment schedule defined in the 
study protocol, was performed at the discretion of the investigator. 
Treatments 
• 
Study treatment 
Each patient was assigned to one of the two parallel treatment groups : 
- 
- 
250 microgram (8 million IU) IFNB-1b 
Placebo 
Group 1: 
Group 2: 
Both  treatments  were  given  as  s.c.  injections  e.o.d.  Treatment  duration  was  up  to  2  years  or  until 
progression to the primary efficacy variable of CDMS was reached. A dose titration was performed as 
described in Table I below. The dose of 8 mIU Betaferon s.c. e.o.d was selected for treatment of CIS 
patients based on findings of the previous pivotal study in patients with RRMS, in which this dose had 
superior efficacy to a dose of 1.6 mIU s.c., e.od. as compared to placebo treatment. Considering that 
the disease characteristics of patients with CIS closely resemble those of patients with RRMS and that 
the dose 8 mIU was shown to be safe in more than on decade of market experience, no further dose 
finding was performed in this patient population. 
 Table I. 
Injection No.   Study Day  
  1 to 3  
  4 to 6  
  7 to 9  
10 etc.  
1,  
7,  
13, 15, 17  
19, etc.  
3,   5  
9, 11  
Dose  
0.0625 mg   
0.125  
0.1875 mg  
0.25  
mg  
mg  
Volume 
 0.25  
 0.5  
 0.75  
 1.0  
mL 
mL 
mL  
mL  
In  countries  where  an  autoinjector  for  the  administration  of  IFNB-1b  was  available,  patients  were 
encouraged to its use. During the study, after the titration period, the proportion of patients using an 
autoinjector ranged from 75.8% to 81.6% in the IFNB-1b group (month 2 onwards). 
• 
Prohibited concomitant therapy 
Any  immunomodulatory  or  immunosuppressive  treatment  and  other  therapeutic  agents  for  MS  or 
other investigational pharmacological therapy for MS were prohibited throughout the study and would 
have been required termination of treatment. 
• 
Permitted concomitant therapy 
1. 
Treatment of flu-like symptoms 
For  the  first  3  months  of  treatment  with  study  drug,  all  patients  were  to  be  instructed  to  take  non-
steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs  (NSAIDs)  prior  to  each  injection  in  order  to  minimize  flu-like 
symptoms due to study drug (recommended dose: 500 to 1000 mg acetaminophen/paracetamol or 200 
to 400 mg ibuprofen). In addition, patients could have received additional acetaminophen/paracetamol 
(up to a maximum of 3 grams within any 24-hour period) or ibuprofen (up to a maximum of 1200 mg 
within  any 24-hour period), as necessary for relief of expected interferon-related flu-like symptoms. 
At the discretion of the treating physician, these agents could be given throughout this study. 
4/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Steroid treatment 
Steroid treatment of the single clinical demyelinating event was at the discretion of the investigator. 
The screening MRI scan was not to be performed while a patient was on intravenous (i.v.) corticoid 
therapy. The MRI was to be performed before initiation of steroid treatment.  
Randomisation and sample size 
Patients  were  assigned  to  IFNB-1b  250  µg  (8  MIU),  or  placebo  (both  s.c.  injections  e.o.d.).  A 
randomization  procedure  was  designed  to  keep  the  overall  treatment  allocation  ratio  close  to  5:3 
(IFNB-1b  :  placebo).  A  minimization  procedure  with  an  element  of  randomization  was  used  to 
minimize  imbalances  of  treatment  groups  for  factors  that  might  affect  the  manifestation  of  definite 
MS: (i) steroid use during the first clinical event, (ii) investigator’s classification of the first event, (iii) 
categorized number of T2 lesions on the screening MRI, and (iv) cerebrospinal fluid result.  
Patient enrolment was planned to continue until a total of at least 400 patients had reached at least the 
Month-1 visit of the treatment period without EOS medication. In the end, 603 patients were screened, 
and 487 patients were randomized. Of these 468 patients were included in the analysis and treated.  
Endpoints 
Primary efficacy variables: 
• 
• 
Time to CDMS according to Poser (Poser 1983). 
Time to MS according to the diagnostic criteria by McDonald (McDonald et al. 2001). 
Secondary efficacy variables: 
• 
Cumulative number of newly active lesions observed between the screening MRI scan and the 
last scan at/before the EOS visit. 
Absolute change in T2 lesion volume (T2 lesion load), observed between the screening MRI 
scan and the last scan at/before the EOS visit. 
• 
Exploratory MRI efficacy variables: 
(cid:1)(cid:2) Absolute change in volume of non-enhancing hypointense T1 lesions ("black holes”) observed 
between the screening MRI scan and the last scan at/ before the EOS visit. 
(cid:1)(cid:2) Percentage change in brain volume (PBVC according to the SIENA method 21) observed 
between the screening MRI scan and the last scan at/ before the EOS visit. 
(cid:1)(cid:2) Cumulative number of new non-enhancing hypointense lesions seen on T1-weighted scans 
("black holes”) observed between the screening MRI scan and the last scan at/ before the EOS 
visit. 
Exploratory clinical efficacy variables were derived from the following test procedures: EDSS score 
and Kurtzkes FS scores; MSFC score and scores of subtests. 
Patient-reported outcome variables were: Functional assessment of MS Trial Outcome Index (FAMS-
TOI) and EuroQoL-5 dimensions (EQ-5D). 
Statistical methods 
Analyses  of  efficacy  variables  were  based  on  468  patients  (292  IFNB-1b  patients  and  176  placebo 
patients)  who  had  at  least  one  administration  of  study  drug.  This  “Full  Analysis  Set”  (FAS)  was 
predefined as the primary  analysis  set of the study. Analyses  of the primary  efficacy  variables were 
also  performed  with  the  “All  Randomized  Analysis  Set”  (ARS),  i.e.  all  487  patients  who  were 
randomized, which was introduced during the course of the study.  
5/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary  efficacy  variables  were  analyzed  by  the  log-rank  test  (primary  statistical  analysis)  and  by 
proportional hazards regressions (secondary  statistical analysis). According to the  statistical analysis 
plan,  proportional  hazards  regressions  were  performed  with  covariates  used  in  the  minimization 
procedure.  
For both primary efficacy variables the null hypothesis of no difference between IFNB-1b treatment 
and  placebo  was  considered.  The  efficacy  of  IFNB-1b  was  tested  by  a  sequential,  conditional 
approach which restricts the overall probability of a type-I-error to 0,05: 
1. 
2. 
The  null  hypothesis  of  no  difference  in  survival  functions  between  IFNB-1b  treatment  and 
placebo was tested for “Time to clinically definite MS” with a two-sided significance level of (cid:2) 
= 0,05. 
Only  in  a  case  the  above  mentioned  null  hypothesis  was  rejected,  the  null  hypothesis  of  no 
difference in survival functions between IFNB-1b treatment and placebo was tested for “Time 
to MS according to McDonald criteria” with a two-sided significance level of (cid:2) = 0,05. 
Post-hoc  analyses of the primary efficacy  variables  were performed with respect to key  clinical and 
MRI  baseline  factors  characterizing  dissemination  and  activity  of the  disease  at  the  time  of the  first 
event, including: (i) Age (< 30 versus (cid:3) 30 years), (ii) onset of disease (monofocal versus multifocal), 
(iii)  number  of  T2  lesions  (<  9  versus  (cid:3)  9),  (iv)  number  of  Gd+  lesions  (0  versus  (cid:3)  1),  (v)  steroid 
treatment of the first event (yes versus no), and (vi) sex. For each of these covariates, the impact on 
the progression to CDMS (log-rank test as well as proportional hazards regression using the covariate 
as  the  only  stratum),  the  interaction  with  IFNB-1b  (proportional  hazards  regression:  IFNB-1b  by 
covariate  interaction),  and  the  efficacy  of  IFNB-1b  in  the  respective  subgroups  (log-rank  test  and 
proportional  hazards  regression  in  two  subgroups  resulting  from  dichotomization  of  the  BENEFIT 
FAS with regards to these covariates) were evaluated. 
MRI efficacy variables were analyzed by nonparametric analysis of covariance for “annualized” and 
“non-annualized”  (i.e.  not  modified)  secondary  and  supportive  secondary  variables.  Corresponding 
MRI parameters measured in the screening MRI scan were used as covariates. 
6/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
All patients were to be titrated up to a dose of 8 mIU within a period of three weeks unless any 
significant local or systemic side effects occur. All patients reached the full dose according to this 
schedule, i.e. within 3 weeks. 
Recruitment 
The  study  was  performed  between  February  2002  and  April  2005.  98  centres  in  20  countries  were 
involved into the conduct of the study and numbers of recruited patients vary from 1 (0.2%) for the 
smallest centers, up to 19 (4.1%) for the biggest center. 
7/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Analysis of the baseline characteristics showed that treatment groups were very similar with respect to 
demographic  and  key  clinical  as  well  as  MRI  parameters,  as  shown  in  Table  II  below.  Baseline 
characteristics in the treatment groups of the ARS were close to FAS. 
Table II. 
Baseline characteristics (FAS) 
Female – % (n)  
Age – median (quartiles)  
Caucasian – % (n)  
Monofocal onset – % (n)  
Steroid treatment – % (n)  
CSF sample taken – % (n)  
 of these: CSF positive – % (n)  
(cid:3)9 T2 lesions – % (n)  
At least 1 Gd+ lesion % (n)  
 IFN beta-1b  
 N=292  
70.9% (207)  
30 (24-37.5)  
97.9% (286)  
52.4% (153)  
71.6% (209)  
67.8% (198)  
86.4% (171)  
70.9% (207)  
43.5% (127)  
Placebo 
N=176  
70.5% (124)  
30 (25-36)  
98.9% (174)  
52.8% (93)  
69.9% (123)  
65.9% (116)  
82.8% (96)  
69.9% (123)  
39.7% (70)  
The analysis sets are summarised in Table III below. 
Table III. 
All randomized set (ARS) (by-patient allocation): 
All 487 patients randomized for this study were included in the ARS. 
8/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full analysis set (FAS) (by-patient allocation): 
Among  the  487  ARS  patients,  the  19  randomized  patients  (4%)  who  never  received  any  study 
medication were not included into the FAS, leading to a total of 468 (96%) included in the FAS. Two 
of  these  patients  were  not  treated  as  randomized.  There  were  no  relevant  differences  between  the 
treatment groups with regard to the allocation of randomized patients to the FAS. 
Per-protocol set (PPS) (by-visit allocation): 
During the course of the study, there was a tendency of fewer exclusions from the PPS in the IFNB-1b 
group as compared to the placebo group. At Month 18, 64% of the IFNB-1b patients versus 52% of 
the placebo patients were included into the PPS. 
Safety analysis set (SFS) (by-patient allocation): 
All 468 patients with at least one dose of study medication were included into the SFS. Two of these 
patients were not treated. There were no relevant differences between the treatment groups with regard 
to the allocation of randomized patient to the SFS. 
Outcomes and estimation 
• 
Primary efficacy variables – Primary analysis 
Time to CDMS according to Poser 
The total number of patients with CDMS at any time-point during the study was 152/468 (32.5%), 75 
in  the  INFB-1b  group  (25.7%)  and  77  patients  in  the  placebo  arm  (43.8%).  All  other  patients  were 
censored with regard to CDMS. 
By  the  end  of  the  2-year  treatment  period  (on  Day  720),  the  probability  of  not  being  diagnosed  for 
CDMS (as estimated by Kaplan-Meier statistics) was 72.5% in the IFNB-1b group and 54.7% in the 
placebo group (see figure 1). 
Figure 1: "Time to CDMS " – Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates (FAS) 
9/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  all  three  analysis  sets,  the  log-rank-tests  for  comparison  of  the  treatment  groups  led  to  p-values 
below the chosen significance level of (cid:4) = 0.05: 
• 
• 
• 
FAS:  p = 0.000075 
ARS:  p = 0.000096 
PPS:  p = 0.000014 
Time to MS according to the diagnostic criteria by McDonald 
For the establishment of dissemination in space, no relevant differences between the treatment groups 
were seen; for nearly half of the patients (47% in both groups), dissemination in space was established 
by the multifocal onset of the single event. 
The proportion of patients for whom dissemination in time was established via the criterion "(cid:3) 1 new 
Gd+ lesion at Month-3" was notably higher in the placebo group (29.5%) than in the IFNB-1b group 
(12.0%). Conversely, the proportion of patients for whom dissemination in time was never established 
was higher in the IFNB-1b group (31.5%) than in the placebo group (15.3%). 
By the end of the 2-year treatment period, the probability of not being diagnosed for MS according to 
the McDonald criteria (as estimated by Kaplan-Meier statistics) was 30.6% in the IFNB-1b group and 
15.5% in the placebo group. The Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates for FAS are shown in Figure 2. 
MRI scans were performed at Months 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 which explains the step-like shape of the 
curve. 
Figure 2: "Time to MS according to the McDonald criteria " – Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates 
(FAS) 
In  all  three  analysis  sets,  the  log-rank-tests  for  comparison  of  the  treatment  groups  led  to  p-values 
below the chosen significance level of (cid:4) = 0.05: 
• 
• 
• 
FAS:  p = 0.000006 
ARS:  p = 0.000007 
PPS:  p = 0.000001 
10/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary efficacy variables – Secondary analysis 
A semi-parametric proportional hazards regression showed that, for both primary  efficacy  variables, 
the respective confidence intervals for the hazard ratios of the covariates "treatment" and "steroid use 
during single event" do not include the value 1, thus suggesting an effect. For "time to MS according 
to  the  McDonald  criteria",  this  held  also  true  for  "(cid:3)  9  T2  lesions  at  screening".  For  the  other 
covariates, the corresponding confidence intervals for the hazard  ratios do not suggest demonstrable 
effects on either primary efficacy variable (see Table IV). 
Table IV. Primary efficacy variables: Proportional hazards regression  
Secondary MRI efficacy variables 
Cumulative number of newly active lesions  
For  the  non-annualized  values,  the  gradual  increase  of  the  mean  and  median  cumulative  number  of 
newly  active  lesions  was  more  expressed  in  the  placebo  group  than  in  the  IFNB-1b  group.  A 
significant  group  difference  in  favour  of  IFNB-1b  was  also  found  for  the  annualized  rates.  The 
cumulative number of newly active lesions (FAS) is summarised in Table V below. 
Table V. 
11/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absolute change in T2 lesion volume (T2 lesion load),  
The  change  in  T2  lesion  load  during  the  course  of  the  study  exhibited  a  substantial  interindividual 
variability.  From  screening  to  all  subsequent  visits,  the  T2  lesion  load  decreased  in  the  majority  of 
patients  in  both  treatment  groups.  Changes  in  T2  lesion  volume  relative  to  screening  expressed  as 
mm3 – FAS are summarised in Table VI below. 
Table VI. 
Exploratory MRI efficacy variables 
The results for the exploratory MRI efficacy variables (FAS) are summarized in the Table VII below.  
12/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table VII. 
Exploratory clinical efficacy variables  
EDSS score and Kurtzkes FS scores 
The EDSS results show no statistical significance between the treatment groups as shown (Table VIII 
below). 
Table VIII. 
13/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MSFC score and scores of subtests. 
The results for the MSFC Z-scores show no statistical significance between the treatment groups (see 
Table IX).  
Table IX . Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC) - Changes from baseline to end of study - 
FAS 
Patient-reported outcome (PRO) variables 
The PRO results were comparable between both treatment groups. 
The  Functional  assessment  of  MS  Trial  Outcome  Index  (FAMS-TOI)  had  been  pre-specified  as  the 
most important PRO variable. Starting from nearly identical median baseline values in both treatment 
groups  (IFNB-1b:  129.8;  placebo:  130.0),  only  little  changes  over  time  and  only  minor  differences 
between  the  treatment  groups  were  seen;  at  EOS,  median  values  of  128.0  were  recorded  in  both 
treatment.  The  same  picture  was  found  for  the  FAMS  total  score:  Very  similar  baseline  values  as 
recorded in both treatment groups (IFNB-1b: 146; placebo: 147) were followed by EOS values of 147 
(IFNB-1b) and 146 (placebo). 
The  EQ-5D  results  indicate  that  the  long-term  treatment  with  IFNB-1b  does  not  have  a  measurable 
impact on the patients' HRQL.  For the five dimensions of the  health state classification ("mobility", 
"self-care",  "pain/discomfort",  "usual  activities",  "anxiety/depression")  no  significant  changes  over 
time  were  found.  Starting  from  similar  median  baseline  values  in  both  treatment  groups  (IFNB-1b: 
85.0; placebo: 89.0), no significant differences between the treatment groups were seen for the EQ-5D 
Visual analogue scale; at EOS, median values of 88.0 (IFNB-1b) and 89.0 (placebo) were recorded. 
Ancillary analyses 
Results of log-rank test and proportional hazards regression in lag time subgroups 
Further to CHMP request, the MAH performed post hoc analyses of primary endpoints for different 
“lag time” categories (i.e. measured from onset of the first episode to treatment start). Tables X and XI 
provide results of log-rank tests and unadjusted proportional hazards regressions for time to CDMS / 
time  to  McDonald  MS  in  the  two  subgroups  “15  –  45  days”  and  “(cid:3)  46  days”  for  lag  time.  Results 
show that treatment effects were more pronounced in patients with shorter period between the onset of 
the first event and start of treatment. 
14/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table X: Results of log-rank test and proportional hazards regression in lag time subgroups for time to 
CDMS. 
Table XI: Results of log-rank test and proportional hazards regression in lag time subgroups for time 
to McDonald MS.   
Modified proportional hazards regression model and unadjusted hazard ratios  
The  results  of  the  post-hoc  analyses  using  the  proportional  hazards  model  with  the  modified,  more 
complete,  set  of  covariates  that  may  affect  the  progression  to  MS  and,  the  unadjusted  proportional 
hazards regressions are summarized in Table XII. The results obtained for the FAS analysis were very 
similar to the ARS results. 
Table XII. 
15/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to CDMS 
1. 
The  modified  proportional  hazards  regression  indicates  that  "time  to  CDMS"  is  influenced  in  a 
statistically significant manner by IFNB-1b (decreased the risk for progression to CDMS, hazard ratio: 
0.50), by the steroid treatment of the single event (hazard ratio: 1.58), by the age at screening (hazard 
ratio: 0.96), and by the Gd-enhancing lesions on the screening MRI (hazard ratio: 1.07). The number 
of T2 lesions showed a trend for an increase in risk (hazard ratio: 1.004) which did not reach statistical 
significance.  Neither  the  sex  nor  the  type  of  disease  onset  (mono-  or  multifocal)  influenced  the 
progression to CDMS. 
Time to MS according to the McDonald criteria 
2. 
The  modified  proportional  hazards  regression  for  "time  to  McDonald  MS"  resulted  in  very  similar 
findings, with statistically significant impact of treatment, steroid treatment of the single event and age 
at screening. In addition, the number of T2 lesions was also statistically significantly associated with 
an increased risk (hazard ratio: 1.01 per T2 lesion). As for "time to CDMS", by use of the extended set 
of covariates, an even stronger reduction in the risk for progression to MS according to the McDonald 
criteria was seen for IFNB-1b treatment (hazard ratio: 0.54) than in the hazards regressions using the 
initial set of covariates (hazard ratio: 0.57) or treatment as single covariate ("unadjusted hazard ratio": 
0.61). 
Time course of "CDMS" versus "MS according to the McDonald criteria" 
In both treatment groups, the cumulative proportion of patients with MS according to the McDonald 
criteria is substantially larger than the cumulative proportion of patients with CDMS (see Table XIII). 
By the end of the 2-year observation period, the cumulative probability for the disease development in 
placebo patients was 84.5% (MS according to the McDonald criteria) and 45.3% (CDMS). 
Table XIII. Time course of "CDMS" versus "MS according to the McDonald criteria" (FAS) 
Differential risks for CDMS and treatment effects in mono- versus multifocal patients 
In  order  to  better  understand  the  level  of  treatment  response  in  subgroups  of  patients  with  different 
degree  of  disease  activity,  the  impact  of  baseline  MRI  findings  was  further  evaluated  separately  in 
mono- and multifocal patients. 
In  monofocal  CIS  patients,  the  risk  for  CDMS  in  placebo  patients  and  the  treatment  response 
increased with a higher number of T2-lesions  and the presence of  at least one  Gd-enhancing lesion. 
The risk for CDMS in the placebo group increased from 31% in patients with less than 9 T2-lesions to 
55% in patients with at least 9 T2-lesions. Similarly the risk for CDMS increased from 36% in placebo 
patients without Gd-enhancing lesions to 63% in patients with Gd-enhancing lesions. 
16/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  multifocal  CIS  patients,  the  risk  for  CDMS  in  placebo  patients  and  the  treatment  effect  was  not 
increased  by  higher  disease  dissemination  or  activity  on  the  baseline  MRI.  The  risk  for  CDMS  in 
multifocal placebo patients with less than 9 T2-lesions was comparable to the risk of patients with at 
least 9 T2-lesions. Similarly, the risk for CDMS did not differ in multifocal placebo patients without 
vs. with Gd-enhancing lesions.  
There  were  also  differences  between  multifocal  and  monofocal  CIS  patients  with  regard  to  the 
treatment  response.  The 
less  MRI  disease 
activity/dissemination  at  baseline  was  substantial,  and  numerically  even  more  pronounced  than  in 
multifocal patients with such MRI findings (in multifocal patients with less than 9 T2- lesions vs. at 
least 9 T2-lesions the hazard ratios were 0.24 [0.09-0.66] vs. 0.84 [0.50-1.41]; in multifocal patients 
without vs. with Gd-enhancing lesions the hazard ratios were 0.42 [0.22- 0.80] vs. 0.95 [0.48-1.87]). 
treatment  effect  of  multifocal  patients  with 
ANALYSIS PERFORMED ACROSS TRIALS (POOLED ANALYSES AND META-ANALYSIS) 
In  the  pivotal  RRMS  study  that  supported the  granting  of  the  original  RRMS  indication, the  hazard 
ratio estimate for “Time to first relapse after start of treatment” for  IFN beta-1b versus  placebo was 
0.69, corresponding to a reduction in the risk for a relapse by 31% (Bogumil et al. 2005).  
In the BENEFIT study, the reduction in risk for “Time to first relapse” overall was 46% (hazard ratio 
0.54), and in the subgroups of patients with higher dissemination / activity of the disease at the first 
event,  34%  (hazard  ratio  0.66)  in  multifocal  patients,  41%  (hazard  ratio  0.59)  in  patients  with  9  or 
more T2 lesions, and 38% in patients with enhancement on the screening MRI (hazard ratio 0.62). 
DISCUSSION ON CLINICAL EFFICACY 
The  clinical  efficacy  programme  was  based  on  a  multi-center,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
randomized study in patients with a first clinical demyelinating event suggestive of MS.  
The benefit of Betaferon in patients with a first demyelinating event suggestive of MS is supported by 
the  primary  endpoint  as  the  results  demonstrated  a  significant  elongation  of  the  time  to  CDMS 
according  to  the  classifications  of  Poser  and  of  McDonald  at  the  end  of  two  years.  Conversely,  a 
significant decrease of the cumulative number of new active MS lesions on MRI in the IFNB-1b group 
in comparison with the placebo group was demonstrated.  
The convincing results obtained regarding the time to CDMS and MRI lesions were not accompanied  
by  improvements  in  the  clinically  efficacy  variables  (EDSS,  MSFC  score)  and  the  patient-reported 
outcome  variables,  which  raises  questions  concerning  the  clinical  relevance  of  early  treatment  with 
Betaferon. In that respect, it is noted that the beneficial effects of Betaferon on relapse re-occurrence 
in the BENEFIT study were comparable to the effects of Betaferon observed in the pivotal study in 
RRMS patients that were the basis for approval of Betaferon in this patient population. Besides, there 
is  a  substantial  body  of  evidence  that  relapse  and  also  MRI  activity  are  associated  with  irreversible 
CNS damage in the early  disease period (Trapp, 1998; Kuhlmann, 2002), and that relapse and  MRI 
activity during the early rather than during the late disease periods predict long-term disease outcome 
(Brex, 2002; Ebers, 2005; Lublin, 2003). Therefore, even a small effect could be considered clinically 
relevant. The lack of significance of the results obtained on clinically efficacy variables and patient-
reported outcomes may be explained by the fact that these parameters are too insensitive to measure 
disease progression during this earliest clinical period of the disease. The MAH performed additional 
statistical  tests  on  MSFC  outcome  parameters  (non-parametric  analysis  of  covariance  with  baseline 
MSFC  result  as  covariate)  which  notably  showed  a  statistically  significant  beneficial  effect  for 
Betaferon patients with respect to the change of the overall MSFC score from baseline to the end of 
study (the median change of the MSFC z-score from baseline to end of study was 0.119 in Betaferon 
and  0.060  in  placebo  patients;  p=0.0386).  These  results  should  be  viewed  with  caution  as  these 
analyses have not been adjusted for multiplicity.  
17/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results obtained after 2 years provide a limited follow-up of patients and it is unclear how patients 
who develop MS who have been pre-treated with Betaferon will fair in the long-term.  Therefore, the 
MAH committed to provide an accurate follow-up of data from the open-label follow-up extension of 
the trial, when available. In addition, the indication should be restricted to those patients with a first 
event of sufficient severity to warrant the use of Betaferon and with a high risk for MS. Although there 
is no well established definition of a high risk patient, subgroups of patients that were seen of being at 
higher risk to develop CDMS in the BENEFIT study were specified in section 5.1. 
Clinical safety 
PATIENT EXPOSURE 
There were 468 patients in the SFS (96.1% of all patients randomized). Of these 468 patients, a total 
of 292 patients (95.7% of all patients randomized to this treatment group) were of the IFNB-1b group 
and 176 patients (96.7%) of the placebo group. For a total of 458 patients, data on the duration from 
start of treatment to end of study drug was available (missing for 10 patients of the SFS). 
ADVERSE EVENTS  
A total of 3056 adverse events (AEs) in 443 out of 468 patients (94.7%) were reported, with more AEs 
and a higher proportion of patients with AEs reported in the IFNB-1b group: 2180 AEs occurred in 
281 out of 292 IFNB-1b patients (96.2%) compared to 876 AEs in 162 out of 176 (92.0%) placebo 
patients. Differences between the treatment groups were observed for the number of AEs per patient. 
Patients of the IFNB-1b group had more AEs per patient than patients of the placebo group. No AE 
was recorded in 11 patients (3.8%) of the IFNB-1b group and 14 (8.0%) of the placebo patients. 
Most  AEs  were  either  mild  or  moderate  in  intensity,  with  no  clear  differences  between  treatment 
groups: 82.9% of all IFNB-1b patients had mild or moderate AEs compared with 86.4% of all placebo 
patients.  The  most  frequent  AEs  were  injection  site  reaction,  flu-like  symptoms,  headache  and 
asthenia, all of which were more frequent in the IFN beta-1b group than the placebo group. The most 
frequently reported AEs with more than 10% of  patients for any treatment are summarised in Table 
XIV.  
Table XIV. 
18/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More patients of the IFNB-1b group had AEs that were assessed as study drug-related. A total of 254 
patients (87.0%) of the IFNB-1b group and 76 patients (43.2%) of the placebo group had at least one 
AE  that  was  classified  as  being  treatment-related.  The  frequency  of  typical  IFNB-1b-related  AEs 
decreased substantially from the first year to the second year of the study. Of note, the proportion of 
IFN beta-1b-treated patients experiencing flu syndrome was reduced from 42% to 13% of the patients. 
AEs related to flu syndrome such as fever and chills were observed less frequently during the second 
year. Also injection site reactions occurred less frequently during the second year (30%) than during 
the first year (46%). 
SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENT/DEATHS/OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS 
A  total  of  42  AEs  (out  of  3056  AEs,  1.4%)  were  reported  for  32  of  468  patients  (6.8%)  as  serious 
adverse events (SAE), i.e., 28 SAEs (of 2180 AEs, 1.3%) in 20 of 292 patients (6.8%) of the IFNB-1b 
group and 14 SAEs (of 876 AEs, 1.6%) in 12 of 176 patients (6.8%) of the placebo group.  
The majority of patients (23 of 32 patients with SAEs) had recovered from their SAEs by the end of 
the study, 4 were  still recovering (all  of the IFNB-1b group), 3 had not recovered (2 patients of  the 
IFNB-1b group, 1 of the placebo group), and 2 had recovered with residual effects (one patient of each 
treatment group). No deaths were reported during this study. 
LABORATORY FINDINGS 
For lymphocytes, SGPT, absolute neutrophile count (ANC), white blood cells (WBC) and SGOT, the 
proportion of affected patients was statistically significantly higher in the IFNB-1b group as compared 
to  placebo.  The  most  pronounced  group  differences  were  found  for  lymphocytes  (<  1500  /mm3; 
IFNB-1b: 79.1%) and increased SGPT values (> 5 × baseline value; IFNB-1b: 17.8%). 
The five laboratory variables are summarized in Table XV for group comparisons with respect to the 
number/percentage of patients beyond the respective threshold value used in the summary of product 
characteristics. 
Table XV. 
NEUTRALIZING ANTIBODIES (NABS) 
The  available  data  for  NAbs  (By-visit  results  of  the  6-monthly  measurements)  are  shown  in  Table 
XVI. Neutralizing activity was measured at least once in 30% (75) of the IFNB-1b patients; of these, 
23% (17) converted to negative status during the later study course. 
19/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table XVI. 
The assay specificity was adequate as evidenced by the fact that only 1 placebo patient had a positive 
NAb titer at any time; moreover, no positive baseline titer was recorded. 
A post hoc analysis indicated that there was no significant effect between positive titres for NAbs and 
“Time to CDMS”. For the evaluation of potential correlations between NAb titers and efficacy, a log-
rank test stratified for “all available NAb titers negative” versus “(cid:3) 1 positive NAb titer was performed 
for the primary variable time to CDMS” in FAS patients randomized to IFNB-1b.  
The log-rank test did not detect a statistically significant difference between the two strata (p = 0.11). 
Likewise, the  proportional hazards regression with  covariate  NAb status  did  not provide statistically 
significant  results  for  this  covariate  (hazard  ratio:  0.626,  p  =  0.11).  Moreover,  the  results  of  the 
additional proportional  hazards regression with covariate NAb status  and the covariates used for the 
pre-specified  analyses  of  the  primary  variables  ("type  of  disease  onset";  "steroid  use  at  first  event"; 
"number of T2 lesions at screening") are consistent with these findings. Figure 3 below illustrates the 
time to CDMS in patients with at least 1 positive NAb titer compared to patients who remained NAb-
negative throughout the study. 
Figure 3. Time to CDMS” by NAb status – Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates (FAS) 
At  the  request  of  the  CHMP,  the  MAH  performed  additional  statistical  analyses  with  regard  to  the 
relationship of positive NAb status (“at least once positive”) and time to CDMS to further evaluate the 
effect  of  the  NAb  on  the  efficacy  in  patients  with  persisting  levels  of  antibodies.  This  additional 
analysis  excluded  Betaferon  patients  with  end  of  study  (EOS)  before  6  months,  9  months  and  12 
20/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
months,  respectively.  Such  an  approach  was  motivated  by  the  common  understanding  that  NAbs 
against  Betaferon  are  typically  not  present  (or  measurable)  during  the  first  6  to  12  months  after 
initiation of Betaferon therapy (Polman, 2003; Soerensen, 2005). Key results are displayed in Table 
XVII and Figure 4. 
Table XVII: Association of NAb positive status and time to CDMS 
 # NAb positive versus NAb negative status 
Figure 4: Time to CDMS by NAb status (at least once positive) for IFN beta-1b patients with EOS 
after at least 360 days. 
DISCONTINUATION DUE TO ADVERSE EVENTS 
Significant AE(s) leading to premature discontinuation of study drug and study (SAEs and non-serious 
AEs) are summarised in Table XVIII below. 
21/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table XVIII. 
COMPARISON OF AES AND LABORATORY ABNORMALITIES AMONG THE PIVOTAL IFNB-1B 
STUDIES 
The  safety  and  tolerability  profile  of  IFNB-1b  (250  µg  e.o.d.)  in  patients  with a  first  demyelinating 
event as observed during the BENEFIT study was compared with results obtained in previous studies 
in patients with RRMS or SPMS. In general, in comparison to the previous pivotal studies, AEs and 
laboratory  abnormalities  were  reported  in the  BENEFIT  study  in  IFN  beta-1b  patients  with  a  single 
clinical  event  either  with  a  similar  incidence,  or  less  often.  It  is  noted  that  injection  site  reactions 
(ISRs) occurred in a smaller number of both IFNB-1b and placebo treated patients in the BENEFIT 
study. An injection site necrosis was observed in 1% of the IFNB-1b treated patients as compared to 
5% to 6% in the other three pivotal studies. Similarly, flu-like symptoms was reported for a smaller 
portion  of  the  IFNB-1b  treated  patients  with  a  single  clinical  event  (46.2%)  as  compared  to  the 
previous pivotal studies (43% to 61%). With regard to ISRs, the MAH also referred to a three-month, 
multicenter,  randomized,  controlled  study  which  is  accepted  for  publication.  Objective  of  the  study 
was  to  compare  ISRs  with  two  different  autoinjectors  during  two  one-month  open-label  cross-over 
periods  versus  ISRs  during  the  one-month  initiation  period  using  a  standard  s.c.  hand  injection 
technique  in  patients  presenting  with  RRMS  and  starting  treatment  with  IFN  beta-1b.  The  mean 
proportion of ISRs was significantly higher in the hand injection group (35.9%) than in the respective 
autoinjectors groups (24.0%; p < 0.0001 and 24.1%; p < 0.0001). 
22/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION ON CLINICAL SAFETY 
The  safety  and  tolerability  profile  for  Betaferon  found  in  the  available  study  was  as  expected  and 
without  new  aspects.  In  comparison  to  the  previous  studies,  AEs  and  laboratory  abnormalities  were 
reported with a similar incidence or less often. This comparison across  studies should be interpreted 
with caution as it is made between different population samples. However, it is likely that the titration 
scheme  at  the  start  of  therapy,  as  well  as  the  use  of  concomitant  medication  (i.e.  non-steroid  anti-
inflammatory drugs) have contributed to the good tolerability at treatment initiation. In addition, the 
use  of  an  autoinjector  in most  of  the  IFNB-1b  treated  patients  at  each  visit,  after  completion  of  the 
titration phase, might have contributed to the relatively low occurrence of AEs affecting the injection 
site.  
Although there  was  no  indication  that  the  presence  of  NAbs  reduced  the  efficacy  of  Betaferon  with 
regard  to  prolongation  of  time  to  CDMS,  potential  effects  of  NAbs  beyond  two  years  could  not  be 
assessed.  Previous  pivotal  studies  using  Betaferon  in  RRMS  and  SPMS  patients  showed  no 
attenuating  effect  of  NAb  development  on  progression  in  disability.  Evaluation  of  the  European 
Betaferon  SPMS  study  showed  that  effects  of  NAb  on  relapse  rate  were  substantially  varied, 
depending on the statistical approach and definition of positivity, although analyses  comparing low- 
and high-NAb positive periods with NAb negative periods suggested a titer-related effect. However, it 
is worthy of note that substantial proportion of NAb positive patients became NAb negative during the 
course  of  the  study,  similar  to  a  follow-up  report  from  RRMS  patients  from  the  pivotal  study,  with 
88%  of  Nab  positive  becoming  NAb  negative  over  a  period  of  9  years  (Polman  et  al,  2003).  The 
impact  of  persisting  NAbs  will  be  further  analysed  in  the  BENEFIT  follow-up  study,  in  which  the 
effects of NAbs on relapse rate and disability progression will be evaluated over a time period of up to 
60 months.  
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
The CHMP did not require the MAH to submit a risk management plan because other patients similar 
to the proposed target population have already been exposed to this class of drugs.  
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment  
The  data  provided  support  the  benefit  of  Betaferon  in  patients  with  a  first  demyelinating  event 
suggestive  of  MS  as  the  results  from  the  pivotal  study  demonstrated  a  significant  elongation  of  the 
time to CDMS according to the classifications of Poser and of McDonald. Conversely,  a  significant 
decrease  of  the  cumulative  number  of  new  active  MS  lesions  on  MRI  in  the  IFNB-1b  group  in 
comparison with the placebo group was demonstrated.  
The study also confirmed the safety profile of Betaferon observed in previous studies. The safety and 
tolerability profile for Betaferon was as expected and without new aspects.  
In light of this favourable benefit/risk profile and the clarifications provided by the MAH, Betaferon 
may be recommended for the treatment of patients with a first demyelinating event suggestive of MS. 
Therefore, the following indication is added to those already authorised:  
“patients with a single demyelinating event with an active inflammatory process if it is severe enough 
to  warrant  treatment  with  intravenous  corticosteroids,  if  alternative  diagnoses  have  been  excluded, 
and if they are determined to be at high risk of developing clinically definite multiple sclerosis  (see 
section 5.1).” 
Consequential  amendments  were  also  made  to  sections  4.2,  4.4,  4.8  and  5.1  of  the  SPC,  and  the 
package leaflet was updated accordingly. 
23/23 
(cid:1)EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
