23 July 2015 
EMA/CHMP/555332/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: mirabegron 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010031/201412 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 July 2014 – 31 December 2014 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for mirabegron, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Considering the cumulative data available regarding hypertension, the several reports of 
hypertensive crisis in which it is not possible to exclude a possible relationship with mirabegron, the 
cases of cerebrovascular events and cardiac events (such cases of cardiac ischaemia and cardiac 
failure) that also reported hypertension, the existing warning on hypertension in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC should be updated. The use in severe uncontrolled hypertensive patients should be included 
as a contraindication in section 4.3. The package leaflet should be updated accordingly.  
These are new recommendations for preventing an adverse effect including the introduction of a 
new contraindication. This change to the use of this medicine warrants active dissemination of the 
information via a Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC), which has been agreed by 
the PRAC. 
In addition, taking into account the high number of cases of urinary retention reported, most of 
them considered as serious and most of them with a plausible temporal relationship, urinary 
retention should be listed in the section 4.8 of the SmPC. The package leaflet should be updated 
accordingly.  
And finally, considering the number or reports of insomnia, the cases with a compatible time 
relationship and dechallenge positive and one of them with rechallenge positive, insomnia should be 
included in section 4.8 of the SmPC and in the package leaflet. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding mirabegron, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information were warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for mirabegron the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing mirabegron is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied.  
EMA/CHMP/555332/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
