31 January 2019 
EMA/75209/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): mirabegron 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010031/201806 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/75209/2019 
Page 2/3 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for mirabegron, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The MAH has cumulatively reviewed the cases of confusional state using the HLGT Deliria (including 
confusion). From the 138 cases identified, none was considered as an index case by the MAH and only 55 
cases were classified as informative. From these informative cases, only 14 cases were described in detail 
as they are considered as informative positive cases. From these cases, in 9 patients the confusion 
symptoms started within one week of start of mirabegron and all of them had positive dechallenge. They 
recovered in a short time after mirabegron discontinuation. There was also a case with confirmed positive 
rechallenge of symptoms after starting mirabegron three times. In addition, among the cases considered 
by the MAH as informative confounded cases there is also a case with confusion aggravated 2 days after 
initiating mirabegron and in the medical history a similar episode occurred 2 months prior the report after 
initiating mirabegron.  
Cumulatively and according to the summary tabulations, confusional state was the most frequently 
serious Psychiatric disorder reported (37 serious reports, 18.5% of the serious psychiatric disorder 
reported.  
In summary, in spite that the majority of the patients had pre-existing medical conditions or concomitant 
medications that may cause confusional state, there are some cases with a narrow time to onset and a 
positive dechallenge and two cases with positive rechallenge (one confirmed and other suspected). Most 
of patients are elderly patients according to the information included in the EVDAs but there are also 
non-elderly patients. In addition, the use of mirabegron in elderly patients is high according to the data 
from postmarketing exposure presented in the PSUR.   
Therefore, after reviewing all data, confusional state should be included in section 4.8 of the SmPC with 
frequency unknown. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for mirabegron the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing mirabegron is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/75209/2019 
Page 3/3 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
