25 September 2014  
EMA/CHMP/778367/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Betmiga 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: mirabegron 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/002388/PSUV/0013 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 July 2013 – 31 December 2013 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Betmiga, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
The MAH presented in the PSUR information about 42 cases retrieved after a search using the SMQ of 
angioedema in the MAH’s database.  Based on an additional analysis in the Eudravigilance database, 
the PRAC identified four cases reported Angioedema as PT, and found 12 cases reporting lip swelling, 
9 cases reporting swelling face, 8 cases reporting swollen tongue and 4 cases reporting pharyngeal 
oedema. Lip oedema, Lip swelling and swollen tongue meet the disproportionality criteria. The current 
mirabegron company core safety information (CCSI) does not list angioedema specifically as an 
adverse drug reaction in SmPC Section 4.8 “Undesirable Effects”.  However, the terms Urticaria and 
rash are listed as uncommon ADRs. In addition, lip oedema and eyelid oedema are included as rare 
adverse reactions. The PRAC noted that angioedema has not been observed in clinical trials so far.  
After analysing the narrative of the cases identified and taking into account the fact that 
hypersensitivity is an important identified risk in the RMP of mirabegron and urticaria, lip oedema, 
eyelid oedema are listed as adverse reactions in the SmPC, the PRAC considers that changes to the 
product information are warranted to include angioedema with the frequency category “rare” in section 
4.8 of the SmPC and relevant section of the PL. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding angioedema, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information were warranted. The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the 
PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Betmiga, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance MIRABEGRON is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Betmiga  
EMA/CHMP/778367/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
