This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for BEVESPI AEROPSHERE. The 
RMP details important risks of BEVESPI AEROSPHERE, how these risks can be minimised, 
and how more information will be obtained about BEVESPI AEROSPHERE's risks. 
BEVESPI AEROSPHERE's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package 
leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how BEVESPI 
AEROSPHERE should be used. This summary of the RMP for BEVESPI AEROSPHERE 
should be read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
BEVESPI AEROSPHERE's EU-RMP. 
I: 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
BEVESPI AEROSPHERE is authorised for maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve 
symptoms in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (see SmPC 
for the full indication).  It contains glycopyrronium and formoterol as the active substances, 
and it is given by oral inhalation. 
Clinical studies have shown BEVESPI AEROSPHERE to be effective for treating patients 
with COPD. Further information about the evaluation of BEVESPI AEROSPHERE’s benefits 
can be found in BEVESPI AEROSPHERE’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/bevespi-aerosphere 
II:  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of BEVESPI AEROSPHERE, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about BEVESPI AEROSPHERE's risks, are 
outlined below.   
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
• 
• 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient  
(eg, with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Updata Report assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
1.1  LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of BEVESPI AEROSPHERE.  Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Serious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events   
Missing information 
None 
1.2  Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk:  Serious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
There is no overt signal for serious cardiovascular or cerebrovascular 
events from the clinical programme.  The use of LAMA has been 
suggested to be associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular events, but the data are conflicting. 
Age, smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, obesity, diabetes, atrial 
fibrillation, arterial stenosis, family history of heart disease, poor diet, 
BMI ≥30 kg/m2, and physical inactivity. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC Section 4.4 and Patient 
Information Leaflet Section 2 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None. 
1.3  Summary of missing information 
None.  
 
 
 
 
 
1.4  Post-authorisation development plan 
1.3.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of BEVESPI AEROSPHERE. 
1.4.1  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for BEVESPI AEROPSHERE. 
 
