15 November 2012 
  EMA/790069/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Bexsero 
Common name: Meningococcal group B Vaccine (rDNA, component, adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002333 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Bexsero 
Applicant: 
Active substance: 
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. 
Via Fiorentina, 1 
IT-53100 Siena 
Italy 
-Recombinant Neisseria meningitidis group B  
NHBA fusion protein  
-Recombinant Neisseria meningitidis group B  
NadA protein  
-Recombinant Neisseria meningitidis group B  
fHbp fusion protein  
-Outer membrane vesicles (OMV) from  
Neisseria meningitidis group B  
strain NZ98/254 measured as amount of total protein 
containing the PorA P1.4  
Common Name: 
Meningococcal group B Vaccine (rDNA, component, 
adsorbed) 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Meningococcal vaccines  
(J07AH09) 
Therapeutic indication: 
Bexsero is indicated for active immunisation of 
individuals from 2 months of age and older against 
invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria 
meningitidis group B. 
The impact of invasive disease in different age 
groups as well as the variability of antigen 
epidemiology for group B strains in different 
geographical areas should be considered when 
vaccinating. See section 5.1 for information on 
protection against specific group B strains. 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance 
with official recommendations. 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Suspension for injection 
Strengths: 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
One dose (0.5 ml) contains: 
-Recombinant Neisseria meningitidis group B  
NHBA fusion protein               50 micrograms 
Page 2/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Recombinant Neisseria meningitidis group B  
NadA protein                             50 micrograms 
-Recombinant Neisseria meningitidis group B  
fHbp fusion protein                    50 micrograms 
-Outer membrane vesicles (OMV) from  
Neisseria meningitidis group B  
strain NZ98/254 measured as amount of total protein 
containing the PorA P1.4           25 micrograms 
Route of administration: 
Intramuscular use 
Packaging: 
pre-filled syringe (glass) 
Package sizes: 
1 pre-filled syringe with needle, 1 pre-filled syringe 
without needle, 10 pre-filled syringes with needle, 
10 pre-filled syringes without needle  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 3/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 19 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 23 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 26 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 85 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 94 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 98 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................. 100 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 4/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
CI 
CSR 
Confidence Interval 
Clinical Study Report 
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib 
Infanrix Hexa™ (combined diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis 
adsorbed, hepatitis B (recombinant), inactivated poliovirus, Haemophilus 
influenzae type b vaccine)  
ECDC 
ELISA   
EU 
GCP 
GMC 
GMR 
GMT 
HHE 
hSBA 
KD 
LL 
MATS 
MedDRA 
MenB 
MeNZB 
MITT 
MMRV   
OMV 
OMV NZ 
OMV NW 
PCV7 
PP 
SBA 
SOC 
WHO 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control 
Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay 
European Union 
Good Clinical Practice 
Geometric Mean Concentration 
Geometric Mean Ratio  
Geometric Mean Titer 
Hypotonic-hyporesponsive Episode  
Serum Bactericidal Assay using Human Complement 
Kawasaki Disease 
Lower Limit 
Meningococcal Antigen Typing System  
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
serogroup B meningococcus 
Outer membrane vesicle vaccine derived from Neisseria meningitidis serogroup 
B strain NZ98/254. This vaccine was developed to combat the outbreak of 
group B meningococcal disease in New Zealand 
Modified Intention to Treat 
Priorix Tetra™ (measles, mumps, rubella and varicella live-vaccine vaccine)  
Outer Membrane Vesicles 
Outer membrane vesicle derived from Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B strain 
NZ98/254 (New Zealand strain) 
Outer membrane vesicle derived from Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B strain 
H44/76 (Norwegian strain) 
PrevenarTM pneumococcal vaccine (7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine) 
Per Protocol 
Serum Bactericidal Assay 
System Organ Class 
World Health Organization 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 5/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. submitted on 7 January 2011 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Bexsero, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication, active immunisation of individuals from 2 months of 
age and older against invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis group B. The 
impact of invasive disease in different age groups as well as the variability of antigen epidemiology for 
group B strains in different geographical areas should be considered when vaccinating. See section 5.1 
for information on protection against specific group B strains. The use of this vaccine should be in 
accordance with official recommendations. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included EMA Decision 
P/038/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP EMEA-000139-PIP01-M01 was not yet completed 
as some measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance Meningococcal group B vaccine contained in the above 
medicinal product to be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is 
not a constituent of a product previously authorised within the Union. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 6/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP during the development phase (2006, 2007, 
2008 and 2009). The Scientific Advices pertained to insert quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of 
the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder   
Co-Rapporteur: Karsten Bruins Slot 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 7 January 2011. 
The procedure started on 19 January 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 08 April 2011 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 08 April 
2011. 
•  During the meeting on 19 May 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 19 May 
2011. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 18 August 
2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 30 September 2011. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on October 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on January 2012, the CHMP agreed on the company’s request for an 
extension of the submission of the responses to the list of outstanding issues.  
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 15 October 2012. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 9 November 2012. 
•  During the meeting on November 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Bexsero on 15 November 2012.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 7/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Invasive meningococcal disease occurs worldwide. Each year approximately 1.2 million cases of 
invasive meningococcal disease are recorded worldwide, of which 7,000 occur in Europe. The overall 
incidence in European countries ranges from approximately one to four cases per 100,000 population 
(ECDC surveillance report for 2007). 
Infants are at the higher risk of acquiring the disease, followed by adolescents. In the older age groups 
the disease is extremely rare. In addition to age, another individual risk factor includes underlying 
immune deficiencies; the deficiency of complement components are known to determine infection. 
Crowding and concurrent upper respiratory tract infections might also contribute to acquiring the 
disease. Despite the availability of medical treatment and effective antibiotics, 8% of European 
patients die, increasing with age (ECDC surveillance report for 2007), and up to 11-19% of survivors 
have lifelong sequelae.  
Over 90% of meningococcal meningitis and septicemia are caused by five of the 13 meningococcal 
serogroups, i.e., serogroups A, B, C, W-135 and Y. Serogroup B accounts for a high proportion of 
meningococcal disease cases in the Americas, Australia and Europe (74%, ECDC surveillance report for 
2007). 
The global incidence of serogroup B has been estimated between 20,000 and 80,000 cases per year, 
accounting for 2,000-8,000 deaths annually. In Europe, 3406 cases of serogroup B meningitis were 
reported in 2007. The incidence of disease due to serogroup B was highest in Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Belgium and Spain. These same countries had early introduction of MCC vaccination after 
high incidences of serogroup C in the late 1990s (ECDC surveillance report for 2007 [2010]).  
No broadly effective serogroup B meningococcal vaccines are available. Capsular polysaccharide 
vaccines have been used successfully in preventing disease and limiting epidemics and outbreaks 
caused by meningococcal serogroups A, C, W135, and Y. 
However, the capsular polysaccharide of meningococcal serogroup B is poorly immunogenic in humans, 
possibly due to similarities in serogroup B carbohydrate moieties to carbohydrates widely distributed in 
the human body. As a result, research has focused on proteins in the outer membrane of meningococci 
as potential antigens for candidate vaccines. Serogroup B vaccines based on protein-containing outer 
membrane vesicles (OMV) have been safe and effective in controlling epidemic disease caused by 
strains homologous to the vaccine strain in Cuba, Brazil, Chile, Norway, and New Zealand. The use of 
these OMV vaccines to combat serogroup B meningococcal disease has been limited, however, due to 
the strain-specific nature of the protection and the lack of consistent efficacy in young children.  
Bexsero is indicated for active immunization against invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis 
serogroup B strains in individuals from 2 months of age and older. The efficacy of Bexsero against 
invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) has been inferred from the ability of the vaccine to induce 
functional bactericidal antibodies directed against serogroup B meningococci. Immunity to 
meningococcal disease is mediated primarily by serum antibodies that are specific for bacterial surface 
components, and are capable of activating complement once bound, resulting in bacteriolysis. Serum 
bactericidal activity has been accepted as a valid surrogate for predicting the clinical efficacy of 
serogroup B meningococcal vaccines. Functional bactericidal antibodies induced by vaccination with 
Bexsero will be measured by the Serum Bactericidal Assay. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 8/102 
 
 
 
 
 
The rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine has been developed using knowledge gained during vaccine development 
for the Norwegian (MenBvac) and New Zealand (MeNZB) epidemics, together with the identification of 
the N. meningitidis serogroup B genome sequence to develop an effective serogroup B vaccine. The 
availability of the bacterial genome sequence allowed identification of conserved surface-exposed outer 
membrane proteins of serogroup B strains that were targets for bactericidal antibodies.  
The current vaccine formulation or the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine is based on three proteins: i) factor H 
binding protein (fHbp), ii) Neisseria adhesin A (NadA) and iii) Neisserial Heparin Binding Antigen 
(NHBA) or 287. To increase the potency of the immune response and to facilitate large-scale vaccine 
manufacturing, the fHbp protein has been combined with the accessory protein GNA2091 (936), and 
the 287 protein has been combined with GNA1030 (953), to create two fusion proteins. In addition the 
vaccine also contains OMV derived from the New Zealand epidemic strain. 
Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier 
The Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) for Bexsero was submitted in accordance with Article 
8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC as a complete and independent application by Novartis Vaccines and 
Diagnostics S.r.l. The application is submitted under Article 3(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, i.e. 
the centralised procedure is mandatory (Biotech medicinal product). 
In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the applicant submitted in March 2008 an 
application for Paediatric Investigational Plan (PIP) for Multi-Component Meningococcal B Vaccine with 
a request of waiver in neonates/infants less than 8 weeks of age and deferral for some studies 
contained in the paediatric investigational plan as per final PDCO Opinion on the PIP application 
adopted on 21 May 2010. A partial compliance check was requested, but a final report was not 
available at the time of submission. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
About the product 
Bexsero is a Meningococcal B vaccine consisting of four drug substances, as follows: 
-  protein  961  c  -  a  fragment  of  Neisseria  adhesin  A  (NadA),  a  surface-exposed  oligomeric  protein 
belonging to the Oligomeric Coiled-coil Adhesin (OCA) family involved in binding to epithelial cells,  
-  protein  287-953  -  a  fusion  protein  product  of  protein  287  (Neisserial  Heparin  Binding  Antigen  or 
NHBA),  a  primary  antigenic  component,  and  protein  953,  an  accessory  protein  that  enhances  the 
immunogenicity of its fused counterpart and  
-  protein  936-741  -  a  fusion  protein  product  of  proteins  936  and  741  (Factor  H  Binding  Protein  or 
fHbp)  where  Protein  741  is  the  primary  antigenic  component  while  936  is  an  accessory  protein  that 
enhances the immunogenicity of its fused counterpart.  
- Outer  membrane  vesicles  (OMV) from Neisseria meningitidis, group B strain NZ 98/254 (known 
as OMV). 
The drug substances are adsorbed on aluminium hydroxide (Al(OH)3) as a suspension for injection.  
The Al(OH)3 concentration in Bexsero is 1.5 mg/ dose which corresponds to 0.5 mg of elemental 
aluminium per vaccine dose. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 9/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition of Bexsero Vaccine 
Component 
Quantity per 0.5 mL dose 
rp287-953 
rp961c 
rp936-741 
OMV 
Excipients 
Aluminium hydroxide 
Sodium chloride 
Sucrose 
Histidine 
50 μg 
50 μg 
50 μg 
25 μg 
1.5 mg1 
3.125 mg 
10 mg 
0.776 mg 
Water for Injection 
up to 0.5 mL 
              1 Aluminium hydroxide 1.5 mg corresponds to 0.5 mg of elemental aluminium. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Bexsero contains 4 different active ingredients, Outer Membrane Vesicles (OMV) which are extracted 
via detergent from the bacterial membrane of Neisseria meningitidis (N. meningitidis) serogroup B 
strain NZ98/254 and three N. meningitidis cell surface antigen; Protein 961c, Protein 287-953, Protein 
936-741, which are produced in E.coli by recombinant DNA technology. 
Many of the issues mentioned below are common to the different antigens and the finished product. 
Manufacture 
OUTER MEMBRANE VESICLES (OMV) 
Outer Membrane Vesicles (OMV) are extracted via detergent from the bacterial membrane of Neisseria 
meningitidis (N. meningitidis) serogroup B strain NZ98/254. The primary immunogenic components of 
the OMV are the outer membrane proteins (OMPs) and the membrane-bound lipopolysaccharides 
(LPS). As OMVs are complex mixtures of lipids, OMPs, and peri-plasmic components, structural 
descriptions is limited to those that are likely related to the mode of action, namely the major OMP 
antigens and LPS. 
The major outer membrane proteins (OMPs) of N. meningitidis have been designated Class 1 (PorA, 
Serotype P1.4) through Class 5 (Opa). The Class 1, 2, and 3 proteins are porins that show significant 
antigenic variation. All meningococcal strains carry either Class 2 (PorB2) or Class 3 (Por B3) protein. 
These proteins function as anion-selective porins and probably occur in the outer membrane as 
trimers. 
A Class 4 OMP, also called Rmp (Reduction-modifiable protein) due to its shift in mobility in SDS-PAGE 
after reduction, is closely related to protein III (PIII) of N. gonorrhoeae. The Class 4/RmpM OMP is 
constitutively expressed, is antigenically invariable, and is closely associated with the porin molecules, 
acting as a stabilizer. 
The Class 5 protein, Opc, is a surface-exposed protein forming trimers or tetramers in the outer 
membrane.  
The N. meningitidis outer membrane is an asymmetric bi-layer that consists of phospholipids on the 
inner leaflet and the lipid anchor region of lipopolysaccharides (LPS), lipid A, on the outer leaflet. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 10/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meningococcal LPS is structurally distinct from those of enteric Gram-negative bacilli. It lacks the O-
antigen repeat present in enteric bacteria, but the core LPS molecule is heterogeneous both within and 
between strains and has been classified into 12 distinct immunotypes (L1-L12) on the basis of 
monoclonal antibody reactivity. OMV NZ vaccine contains both the L1 and L3 immunotypes.   
One-dimensional SDS-PAGE of OMV vaccines generally reveals between 20-30 proteins, with estimated 
molecular weights from 22,800 to 89,100 Da. Among these are the highly expressed porin proteins 
(PorA and PorB), the Class 4 and 5 antigens and other major antigens, including Omp85, FetA (Class 
1, previously referred to as FrpB), and NspA (Class 3). 
Production and control of starting materials/intermediates 
 Working seeds of Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B strain NZ98/254 are used to prepare an 
inoculum. The culture is expanded through serial fermentation steps. After fermentation the bacterial 
suspension is concentrated by ultrafiltration and inactivated using a detergent solution. The inactivated 
suspension undergoes centrifugation and the supernatant is recovered to yield the crude OMV 
intermediate that is purified  through a concentration and diafiltration step and 
ultracentrifugation.Finally the filtered pre-bulk is sterile filtered to yield the OMV sterile bulk 
concentrate.    
The OMV bulk is stored at 2-8°C. 
Sufficient information has been provided and the production of OMV is considered adequate. 
Seed banking system, characterisation and testing 
The  seed  strain  Neisseria  meningitidis  (N.  meningitidis)  serogroup  B,  strain  NZ  98/254  is  a  wild  type 
strain. The strain was selected for its good yield in production and because it was representative of the 
circulating  N.  meningitidis  serogroup  B  strain  responsible  for  an  epidemic  in  New  Zealand.  The 
establishment and testing of the seed lot system is considered acceptably described.  
The testing of the specifications on the Master and Working Seed is the same. The testing is in line 
with the Ph. Eur monograph for Meningococcal vaccines. 
Process validation 
Changes performed during the manufacturing development have been specified and data submitted to 
support the comparability of the products.  
Characterisation 
The OMV contains a multitude of proteins (>40). The applicant has standardized the major outer 
membrane proteins including Class 1 (PorA). These are quantified by SDS-PAGE.  
Specifications for OMV concentrated bulk  
The company releases the OMV sterile bulk concentrate based upon purity, protein pattern, protein 
concentration, identity, appearance, pH, endotoxin, DNA content, process related impurities, 
lipopolysaccharides, sucrose and sterility. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 11/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The specifications applied are those recommended by general Ph. Eur monographs and also internal 
specifications. 
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated. 
Batch analysis 
Batch analysis data for all lots were compared. Data from batches demonstrate a consistent production 
process. The specifications from the batches presented are also met. 
Reference standard 
An internal reference standard, used to determine the purity of OMV components via SDS-PAGE, is a 
released lot of OMV concentrated bulk. For qualification, the new reference standard is tested against 
the previous standard. For each standard, the molecular weight bands must be clearly separated, show 
similar electrophoresis patterns and the new reference standard must meet the requirements of the 
product specification for OMV components. 
The quality of the reference standard and its relevance for its intended purpose is described in detail as 
the process to qualify a new standard.  
Container closure system 
The closure system is of pharmaceutical grade. The compatibility between the OMV bulk and primary 
container/closure materials is demonstrated through stability studies.  
Stability 
The stability studies were conducted at two temperatures. Long-term stability studies were performed 
at the recommended storage temperature for the claimed shelf life. Accelerated studies were 
performed to generate additional information on the thermal stability profile of the drug substance. 
Recombinant protein 961, 287-953 and 936-741 
General description 
The recombinant antigens are similar in their production and are developed through “reverse 
vaccinology”. The first step in this process was the completion of the genome sequence of the 
pathogen of interest. Several algorithms were used to identify putative cell-surface or secreted 
proteins that could potentially elicit antibody responses in a human host. For Meningococci of 
serogroup B, several hundred of potential vaccine candidates were identified by bioinformatics 
approaches. The next step in the process was to produce recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli, have 
these purified and used as immunogens in mice. Immune sera were collected and assayed for their 
ability to bind to the surface of MenB cells and for their bactericidal activity in vitro. Proteins that had 
high titres in all of the assays were taken into the final stage of evaluation, which assessed the extent 
of protein sequence variability in these proteins across large numbers of MenB isolates. From this 
large-scale screening process, three new vaccine candidates emerged that met all of the criteria. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 12/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Structure for Recombinant protein 961 
Protein  961c  is  a  fragment  of  Neisseria  adhesin  A  (NadA),  a  surface-exposed  oligomeric  protein 
belonging  to  the  Oligomeric  Coiled-coil  Adhesin  (OCA)  family.  NadA  is  a  meningococcal  adhesin 
molecule  involved  in  binding  to  epithelial  cells.  The  protein  derives  from  Neisseria  meningitidis  (N. 
meningitidis)  serogroup  B  Strain  2996.  This  protein  is  also  identified  in  the  literature  as  Genome-
derived  Antigen  (GNA)  1994  (or  NMB1994),  based  on  the  reverse  vaccinology  approach  that  allowed 
its  identification.  The  961c  antigen  is  expressed  via  bacterial  fermentation  by  standard  recombinant 
DNA technology methods in Escherichia coli (E. coli) using a plasmid vector system. 
Structure for Recombinant protein 287-953 
Protein  287-953  is  a  fusion  protein  product  of  287  (Neisserial  Heparin  Binding  Antigen  or  NHBA),  a 
primary antigenic component, and 953, an accessory protein that enhances the immunogenicity of its 
fused  counterpart.  In  nature,  NHBA  is  expressed  on  the  Neisseria  meningitidis  (N.  meningitidis)  cell 
surface. NHBA is able to bind heparin, and heparan sulphate. The binding to heparin is associated with 
an increased resistance to the killing activity of normal human sera. 
Protein 287 is derived from N. meningitidis serogroup B Strain NZ98/254 (also referred to as 394/98) 
and Protein 953 is derived from serogroup B Strain 2996. Proteins 287 and 953 are also identified in 
the  literature  as  Genome-derived  Antigens  GNA2132  (or  NMB2132)  and  GNA1030  (or  NMB1030), 
respectively,  based  on  genome  mining  or  the  reverse  vaccinology  approach.  The  fusion  protein  is 
expressed via bacterial fermentation by standard recombinant DNA technology methods in Escherichia 
coli (E. coli) using a plasmid vector system. 
Structure for Recombinant protein 936-741 
Protein 936-741 is a fusion protein product of 936 and 741 (Factor H Binding Protein or fHbp). Protein 
741 is the primary antigenic component while 936 is an accessory protein that enhances the 
immunogenicity of its fused counterpart. In nature, the Factor H Binding Protein (741) is widely 
expressed on the Neisseria meningitidis (N. meningitidis) cell surface and binds to human factor H, a 
150 kDa inhibitor of the alternative complement pathway (an innate component of the immune 
system’s natural defense against infection that is not B- or T-cell mediated). The binding of factor H 
enhances the ability of N. meningitidis to resist complement-mediated killing, thereby providing an 
effective strategy to evade host defense mechanisms. Antibodies directed against fHbp can mediate 
serum bactericidal activity (e.g. direct bacteriolysis via the complement classical pathway) but also can 
block binding of fH increasing the susceptibility to killing by the complement alternative pathway. 
Protein 936 is derived from N. meningitidis serogroup B Strain 2996 and Protein 741 from serogroup B 
Strain MC58. Proteins 936 and 741 are also identified in the literature as Genome-derived Antigens 
GNA 2091 (or NMB2091) and GNA 1870 (or NMB1870), respectively, based on genome mining or the 
reverse vaccinology approach. The fusion protein is expressed via bacterial fermentation by standard 
recombinant DNA technology methods in Escherichia coli (E. coli) using a plasmid vector system. 
Production process 
The  production  process  is  similar  for  the  three  components:    The  antigens  are  produced  separately. 
Working seeds of E. coli containing the plasmid coding for the respective protein are used to prepare 
an inoculum. During the fermentation step, E. coli cells are expanded, the recombinant protein 961c is 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 13/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expressed and secreted into the supernatant, whilst the other two recombinant proteins 287-953 and 
936-741  are  expressed  intracellularly,  and  harvested.  After  the  broth  has  been  harvested,  the 
recombinant  protein  is  separated  (isolated)  from  the  bacteria  via  centrifugation  and  filtration  steps. 
The last series of steps in bulk manufacture are the purification steps in which the recombinant protein 
is  passed  through  a  series  of  chromatography  columns  and  filtered.  The  expression  construct  for  all 
three  antigens  uses  the  same  host  cell,  the  genetic  construct  was  to  the  greatest  extent  adequately 
described in the initial submission.  
No  starting  material  of  animal  or  human  origin  is  used  during  the  inoculation  preparation  or 
fermentation  of  the  active  pharmaceutical  ingredient  (API).  As  regards  the  control  strategy  this  was 
considered adequately described.  
The testing of the WCB and the acceptance criteria is the same as for the MCB except on the absence 
of test for plasmid structural stability, plasmid sequence and bacteriophages.  
The production and control of the 961c, 287-953 and 936-741 is adequately described. 
Process development 
Some  changes  are  made  from  phase  I/II  to  phase  III  and  no  significant  changes  between  phase  III 
and the commercial production. Comparable data from these lots have been presented and considered 
acceptable.  
Characterisation 
In addition to the routine QC testing, characterisation was conducted on the protein bulks including 
amino acid sequencing, experimental molecular mass analysis by direct infusion in electrospray 
quadrupole ESI-q-Tof mass spectrometer. SDS-PAGE analysis under reducing conditions is used to 
determine purity and integrity of bulk protein. Size exclusion-High Performance liquid chromatography 
(SE-HPLC) method is used to determine purity. SBA protein concentration is used for quantification of 
total protein for in –process controls, release and stability testing. Western blot is used for 
confirmation of the identity. HCP ELISA is used for quantification of residual HCP. The results provided 
confirmed the appropriateness of the analytical methods.  
Specifications 
The release specifications for the bulk recombinant proteins include: purity, protein content, identity, 
HCP, osmolality, endotoxin, bioburden, pH, conductivity, DNA, and process related impurities. 
The tests and specifications comply with the Ph. Eur requirements. Appropriate validation for internal 
tests has been provided. 
Validation of the methods has been carried out according to applicable ICH guidelines and is 
considered acceptable. 
The presented batch analysis data shows an acceptable consistency in production. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 14/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference standard 
Reference standards are representative for batches used in the clinical studies. Satisfactorily 
verification has been provided. 
Container closure system 
The closure system is of pharmaceutical grade. The compatibility between the bulk concentrate 
recombinant proteins and primary container/closure materials is demonstrated through stability 
studies.  
Stability 
All three bulks are stable under the recommended conditions for the claimed shelf-life. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Bexsero  is  a  suspension  for  injection  in  pre-filled  syringe  (PFS)  and  contains  three  recombinant 
proteins  (rp),  Outer  Membrane  Vesicles  (OMV),  and  excipients  (sodium  chloride,  histidine,  sucrose, 
aluminium hydroxide and water for injection). 
The  vaccine  is  supplied  in  a  1-mL  hydrolytic  glass  pre-filled  syringe  without  a  pre-affixed  needle. 
Syringes are sealed with a bromobutyl rubber plunger stopper and tip cap.  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Bexsero  consists  of  three  recombinant  proteins  and  Outer  Membrane  Vesicles,  in  10mM  histidine 
buffer, 6.25 mg/mL sodium chloride, pH 6.5, with 3% sucrose solution and aluminium hydroxide at 0.5 
mg/ 0.5 mL aluminium. 
The histidine buffer was used to adjust pH of the drug product, assuring antigen adsorption and 
product stability. Sodium chloride and sucrose solution were added to obtain an isotonic preparation. 
Aluminium hydroxide was added as adjuvant/adsorbant to enhance immunogenicity. In Bexsero 
vaccine, aluminium hydroxide concentration was selected to achieve adequate adsorption of all 
antigens. This concentration corresponds to 0.5 mg/dose (0.5 mL) of elemental aluminium, which is 
within the allowable dose of aluminium for human vaccines as per Ph. Eur. 
The constiuents of the product and their concentration have been adequately justified. 
Some changes were made in the composition from phase II to phase III. The differences include 
changes to the concentrations of sodium chloride and sucrose. No changes in composition occurred 
between phase III and the commercial composition.   
There are no overages used in the manufacture of this vaccine. 
An overfill of 0.1 mL is included in the syringe to ensure that 0.5 mL can be withdrawn. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 15/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  drug  product  involves  formulation  of  the  drug  substances  with 
Aluminium Hydroxide and buffers, followed by aseptic filling, visual inspection and packaging.  
A thorough validation program has been performed and shows that the process is under control. 
Product specification 
The release and stability tests and specifications for Bexero vaccine includes test for aluminium content, 
degree of adsorption as well as other compendial tests (sterility, endotoxins, pyrogens etc.). 
Consistency of batches is assured by the implementation of an in vivo immunogenicity test in mice.  
The sensitivity and the proposed specifications of the assay were part of a major objection during the 
assessment process.  
The applicant made a thorough work to develop a new bioassay which is more sensitive. A format in 
mice with injection of multiple dilutions of the test sample and a comparison with a clinically qualified 
reference standard was presented and was considered acceptable. 
The applicant proposed specifications at release and at the end of shelf-life for the improved in vivo 
immunogenicity assay in mice. The specifications are acceptable and are based on non-inferiority of 
the tested lot to a clinically qualified reference standard. 
 The proposed acceptance criteria applies both to release and end of shelf-life (proposed 24 months).  
Another major objection was related to the test for pyrogens. Prior to injection into rabbits the product 
was diluted to an extent which was not considered in line with conditions accepted for single 
component OMV vaccines previously used in Norway and New Zealand. Thus, the Applicant was asked 
to provide additional data to verify the sensitivity of the test for pyrogens. The applicant responded to 
these concerns and was able to use the same dilution as the New Zealand vaccine. Further measures 
were introduced to minimise the risk for false positives in the assay. The applicant was able to 
demonstrate that the method used is of sufficient robustness and sensitivity. 
Concern over endotoxin assay variability was solved and measures introduced considered acceptable. 
The release tests for the final containers include the following: identity, volume, appearance, 
aluminium hydroxide test, pH, osmolality, endotoxin, adsorption rate, sterility, pyrogen, in-vivo 
immunogenicity test. Release specifications are accepted. Analytical methods have been adequately 
described and validated. 
Stability of the product 
The proposed shelf-life of the final product is 24 months, when stored at 2-8°C, protected from light. 
To support the current shelf-life, stability studies were initiated on three full-scale consecutive final 
product lots used for Phase III clinical trials; these lots also served as consistency lots for the 
manufacturing process. Tested batches showed stable results except the initial results showed for most 
batches a decrease in immunogenicity using the original method. As mentioned above, during the 
evaluation of the submission it was highlighted that the initial immunogenicity assay of limited 
sensitivity and a new assay has been introduced. This means that no stability data were present to 
support the shelf life using the currently proposed methodologies.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 16/102 
 
 
 
 
 
In the absence of real time stability data generated with the new assay, the Company initiated testing 
of  a  number  of  lots  of  Bexsero  in  the  new  in  vivo  immunogenicity  assay.  Data  indicate  that  lots  of 
Bexsero  used  in  clinical  trials  meet  the  proposed  specifications  for  the  new  in  vivo  immunogenicity 
assay . These data, from lots that were beyond the proposed shelf life at the time of testing, supports 
that the proposed shelf-life of 24 months for Bexsero, when stored at 2-8°C and protected from light. 
As  mentioned  below,  this  will  be  further  supported  by  real  time  stability  data.  Taking  this  into 
consideration, it was deemed that sufficient data were presented supporting this shelf life even without 
actual real time data as these are not available using the new in vivo immunogencitiy method.  
Further  actions  to  ensure  that  vaccine  lots  released  onto  the  market  will  remain  within  specification 
throughout the claimed shelf life were agreed. 
Adventitious agents 
The facilities and equipment as well as the adventitious agents safety evaluation has been acceptably 
addressed. 
GMP 
Acceptable GMP status has been verified for the involved manufacturers. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The chemical/pharmaceutical part of the Bexsero dossier is of acceptable standard. During the 
assessment process, three major objections were identified related to the lack of clinical qualification of 
specifications for important attributes (protein purity of recombinant antigens, protein pattern of the 
OMV component and immunogenicity) of the drug product, indications of  lack of comparability  
between OMV bulks produced  at different sites and the test for pyrogens which was not considered 
adequate. Data have been provided to support the specifications for the protein purity/ protein pattern 
and following submission of additional data it was verified that the production at the two sites resulted 
in comparable products. The applicant has made a thorough work to improve the format of the 
bioassay and also to improve the pyrogen and endotoxin assays. The vaccine is inherently pyrogenic 
due to its nature but the applicant has succeeded to lower the variability of the endotoxin assay and 
also minimized the number of false positives of the pyrogen assay and increased the sensitivity of the 
assay. The format of the potency assay and the acceptance criteria has been sufficiently justified. No 
real time stability data covering the proposed 24 months with the improved assay is presented but the 
applicant has through analysis of retained samples of aged material acceptably supported their claim. 
All the major objections have been satisfactorily addressed by the applicant. 
In addition, all other concerns raised during the assessment have been acceptably resolved. A number 
of recommendations for revision of specifications etc. when more experience is gained or tests to be 
introduced have been made. These are not considered critical to the overall quality of the product and 
hence a positive opinion can still be recommended.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 17/102 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The applicant has acceptably resolved all issues identified during the assessment and there are no 
remaining quality issues preventing a positive opinion. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
The applicant is recommended to use the improved bioassay method to confirm stability data 
according to ICH requirements. If necessary, shelf-life specification limits should be revised. 
The Applicant is recommended to introduce in the release specification a validated test to 
confirm the vesicular size/nature of the OMV component. 
The applicant is recommended pending the positive outcome of the development studies to 
complete the validation of the improved formulation process with an in-line filtration process 
including characterization, comparability, aseptic confirmation and minimum number of months of 
stability.  
4. 
The applicant is recommended to re-evaluate intermediate bioburden limits of the rp961c 
downstream process after accumulating in-process data from sufficient number of purification 
batches. 
5. 
The Applicant is recommended to use smaller peptide tolerance windows for future 
comparative studies using Mass spectroscopy after process changes etc. to identify eventual 
differences in levels of post-translational modified forms.  
6. 
7. 
The applicant is recommended to set a release specification for the rp287-953 Ox-Red ratio, as 
determined by RP-HPLC, once results from sufficient number of batches are available. 
The Applicant is recommended to improve their adsorption rate method.  If the modified 
method improves the analysis, the new assay should be validated and implemented. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 18/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Bexsero  is indicated for active immunization against invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis 
serogroup B strains of individuals from 2 months of age and older.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
The Bexsero vaccine is a mixture of two protein-protein fusion antigens (287-953 and 936-741, where 
287 and 741 are the primary antigen components and 953 and 936 are present as accessory protein), 
one single antigen (961c) and OMV NZ, formulated with an aluminium hydroxide [Al(OH)3] adjuvant. 
The sequences for these antigens are derived from three Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B strains; 
antigen 287 is derived from strain NZ98/254; antigens 953, 936, and 961c are derived from strain 
2996; and antigen 741 is derived from strain NC58. The OMV component is a suspension that consists 
of small, membranous spherical vesicles in which the native complex antigen composition of the sub-
capsular cell surface of N. meningitidis serogroup B strain NZ98/254 (B:4:P1.7-2,4) is highly 
preserved. As a result, the OMV contain the most abundant proteins of the outer membrane (PorA and 
PorB are the main components), some minor proteins, and small amounts of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). 
Non-GLP methods were developed for assessment of immunogenicity in studies in mice, Guinea pigs, 
rabbits, and non-human primates (antibody titres by ELISA and antibody function by SBA). The non-
GLP status of the ELISA and SBA assays used to evaluate the sera from the GLP rabbit studies is not 
considered to constitute a deficiency in the program because the purpose of these assays was not 
related to safety assessment. Immunogenicity was assessed in order to demonstrate that rabbits were 
an appropriate toxicology species that exhibits an immune response that is qualitatively similar to 
humans, that control rabbits did not receive test vaccine, and that treated rabbits did receive the test 
vaccine. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
GLP and non-GLP studies have assessed the immunogenicity of individual antigenic components of 
Bexsero and of Bexsero itself. These studies were conducted in mice, Guinea pigs, rabbits and 
monkeys and were designed primarily to determine the generation of antibodies and induction of 
Serum Bacterial Activity (SBA) following single and repeated administrations of Bexsero at doses 
comparable to, or greater than, those indicated for clinical use. In addition, in a passive protection 
model, immune mouse antisera protected animals against development of bacteraemia caused by 
challenge with various serogroup B strains of N. meningitidis. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Studies assessing secondary pharmacodynamics of Bexsero have not been conducted. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Studies assessing safety pharmacology of Bexsero have not been conducted. However, no safety 
issues pertaining to the cardiovascular, central nervous and/or respiratory systems were identified in 
the nonclinical pharmacology and toxicology studies conducted with Bexsero based on standard 
observations. In the GLP toxicology studies conducted in rabbits, no changes in heart rate or 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 19/102 
 
 
 
 
 
respiration rates and/or clinical observations indicative of central nervous system, cardiovascular or 
respiratory system effects were observed following administration of any of the vaccine formulations 
tested, including the clinical formulation of Bexsero. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Studies assessing pharmacodynamic drug interactions with Bexsero have not been conducted. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies (absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion) have not been 
conducted with Bexsero. This is in accordance with applicable guidelines. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
A combined single dose toxicity and repeat dose toxicity study was performed in rabbits. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
In a GLP study, the local and systemic toxicities resulting from single and repeat IM doses of various 
rMenB vaccine formulations were assessed in New Zealand White rabbits. 
Study groups were: 
Group 
1 
2 
Treatment 
Al(OH) 3 
rMenB+OMV NW 
3 
4 
5 
6 
rMenB+OMV NZ (Bexsero) 
rMenB 
rMenB (37ºC) 
2× rMenB+OMV NW 
Dose 
1.5 mg Al(OH) 3 
50 μg each of 287-953, 961c and 936-741 + 25 μg OMV 
NW + 1.5 mg Al(OH) 3 
50 μg each of 287-953, 961c and 936-741 + 25 μg OMV 
NZ + 1.5 mg Al(OH) 3 
50 μg each of 287-953, 961c and 936-741 + 1.5 mg 
Al(OH) 3 
50 μg each of 287-953, 961c (stored at 37ºC) and 936-741 
+ 1.5 mg Al(OH) 3 
100 μg each of 287-953, 961c and 936-741 + 25 μg OMV 
NW + 3 mg Al(OH) 3 
The group size was 8-10 male / female rabbits. The rabbits were immunized on Day 1, 15, 29, 43 and 
57. One to two animals/groups were necropsied on Day 3 (two days after the first dose), one to two 
animals/group on Day 15 (just before the second dose), three animals/group on Day 59 (two days 
after the fifth dose) and three animals/group on Day 71 (14 days after the fifth dose). 
The immunogenicity assessment is described in the section on Primary pharmacodynamics. In short, a 
weak immune response was observed after a single dose, while after two doses or more there was a 
strong immune response in all vaccine groups. 
In the clinical pathology data, there were significant changes in the mean fibrinogen, leukocyte and 
neutrophil counts, and globulin values that were indicative of inflammation, and together with the 
changes observed in the mean creatinine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase values suggest skeletal 
muscle involvement (most likely at the injection sites). The vaccine formulations containing NW OMV 
or NZ OMV produced significantly higher mean fibrinogen, leukocyte and neutrophil counts. Although 
these changes were mild and transient; they are considered treatment-related effects. The remaining 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 20/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significant changes that were observed were generally small in magnitude, had no biological 
significance, and/or were due to individual animal variation. 
Genotoxicity 
Studies assessing genotoxicity of Bexsero have not been conducted. This is in line with applicable 
guidelines. 
Carcinogenicity 
Studies assessing carcinogenicity of Bexsero have not been conducted. This is in line with applicable 
guidelines. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Two GLP reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have been carried out with the 4CMenB 
vaccine. The first was a dose-range finding developmental study in rabbits, while the second study was 
a pivotal fertility, developmental and perinatal toxicity study with postnatal evaluation in rabbits.  
Parameters evaluated during these studies included viability, clinical observations, skin reactions, body 
weights, food consumption, mating and fertility indices and gross lesions. Rabbits were also evaluated 
for reproductive parameters such as pregnancy status, gravid uterine weights, number and distribution 
of corpora lutea, implantation sites, and live and dead foetuses as well as early and late resorptions. 
All foetuses were sexed, weighed, and examined macroscopically for any external anomalies to detect 
any embryofoetal toxicity/teratogenicity. Blood samples for antibody (ELISA) and Serum Bactericidal 
Activity (SBA) analyses were collected from does and foetuses. The major findings are presented in 
Table 1. 
Table 1: Summary of reproductive and developmental toxicity studies 
Study ID  Species/ 
Dose/Route 
Duration 
Major findings 
Dosing on days 1, 15, 
and 29 prior to mating 
and on Days 7 and 20 
of gestation.  
Bexsero and rMenB were 
immunogenic and well tolerated. 
No evidence of reproductive or 
developmental toxicity was 
observed. 
Caesarean sectioning 
performed on day 29 
of gestation. 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
UBA00041  Rabbit/ New 
Zealand White 
Group 1: 0.9% Sodium 
Chloride 
6 females/group 
Group 2: rMenB (50 μg 
each antigen) + 1.5 mg 
Al(OH) 3 
Group 3: rMenB (50 μg 
each antigen) +25 μg 
OMV NZ + 1.5 mg 
Al(OH) 3 
Group 4: rMenB (100 μg 
each antigen) + 3 mg 
Al(OH) 3 
Group 5: rMenB (100 μg 
each antigen) +50 μg 
OMV NZ + 3 mg Al(OH) 3 
Intramuscular 
administration 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 21/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UBA00044  Rabbit/ New 
Zealand White 
Group 1 and 3: 0.9% 
Sodium Chloride 
27 
females/group 
Group 2 and 4: rMenB 
(50 μg each antigen) + 
25 μg OMV NZ + 1.5 mg 
Al(OH) 3 
Intramuscular 
administration 
Dosing on days 1, 15, 
and 29 prior to mating 
and on Days 7 and 20 
of gestation 
Bexsero and rMenB were 
immunogenic and well tolerated. 
No evidence of reproductive or 
developmental toxicity was 
observed. 
Group 1 and 2: 
Caesarean sectioning 
performed on day 29 
of gestation. 
Group 3 and 4: 
Natural delivery and 
necropsy with 
offspring on day 29 of 
lactation. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Studies assessing Toxicokinetics of Bexsero have not been conducted. This is in line with applicable 
guidelines. 
Local Tolerance  
As part of the single and repeat dose toxicity study in rabbits, the local tolerance to single and repeat 
IM doses of various rMenB vaccine formulations was assessed in New Zealand White rabbits. The local 
reactogenicity of the vaccine formulations was generally of a low order of magnitude, and changes 
were slightly exacerbated compared to the Al(OH)3 placebo formulation. Injection site inflammation 
was partially to fully reversible within the 14-day recovery period and was consistent with IM 
administration of an immunogenic Al(OH)3-adjuvanted vaccine. 
Other toxicity studies 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According  to  the  Guideline  on  the  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  (ERA)  of  Medicinal  Products  for 
Human Use, an ERA is not required. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A combined single-dose and repeat-dose toxicity study was performed in rabbits. Rabbits were given 
up to five doses of the vaccine, at a full human dose or double the human dose. There were no 
important toxicological findings. There were transient changes in fibrinogen and in neutrophil and 
leukocyte counts.  These changes are likely to be directly related to the immunostimulatory activity of 
the vaccine. Vaccine formulations lacking the OMV component induced less change in these 
parameters. This suggested that the OMV component may act partly as an adjuvant (possibly 
mediated by LPS), thereby enhancing the immune response.  
There were no studies on genotoxicity and carcinogenicity, which is in line with applicable guidelines. 
A reproductive and developmental toxicity study was performed in rabbits. Five human doses were 
given during the pre-mating (3 doses) and gestation (two doses) periods. Rabbits were evaluated by 
caesarean section at gestation day 29 or were allowed to deliver naturally and were assessed at 
lactation day 29. There was an increased incidence of skeletal variations in rabbits given the vaccine, 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 22/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and there was a statistically significant reduction in the average number of ossified forelimb phalanges. 
In the study, there was only one case of malformation (one foetus in the control group with 
interventricular septal defect in the heart and persistent truncus arteriosus). The statistically significant 
difference in ossification sites in forelimb phalanges was minimal and unlikely to be of relevance (13.95 
vs. 13.72), and there were no other reductions in ossification site averages. The design of the study, 
with a single dose level of Bexsero, somewhat limits the possibility of detecting developmental toxicity.  
In conclusion, the data do not suggest a risk for negative effects of the vaccine on human reproductive 
and developmental functions. 
A number of in vitro studies were performed to assess potential effects of rMenB protein antigens on 
cytotoxicity, cell monolayer permeability, cytokine induction, and cell activation. These studies 
demonstrated binding of rMenB protein antigens and the OMV component to endothelial cells but there 
was no evidence of toxicity. The rMenB protein antigens induced cytokine production similarly to other 
licensed vaccines. The in vitro activity of the OMV component was similar to that of LPS, a constituent 
of OMV. 
Overall, the non-clinical package is adequate to support this application and there are no non-clinical 
outstanding concerns to object to the approval of Bexsero. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical program adequately supports the marketing authorisation application for Bexsero. The 
toxicity profile of Bexsero is sufficiently characterised by the non-clinical data submitted. The 
statement in section 5.3 of the SmPC pertaining to non clinical data is appropriate.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
All clinical trials were performed according to the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and in 
compliance  with  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP)  and  the  applicable  regulatory  requirements  for  the 
country in which they were conducted. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Summary of studies in the Clinical Development for the Meningitis B Vaccine 
Phase 
Study 
Location 
Year 
Age at 
Enrollmenta,b (S
chedule) 
Type of study 
Vaccine Group 
N 
enrolled 
  1 
n
o
i
t
a
l
u
m
r
o
F
e
n
i
c
c
a
V
y
l
r
a
E
V72P1  
US 
2004/05 
V72P1E1 
US 
2005/06 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
19-40y 
(0,1,2,6c) 
single blind 
randomized controlled 
rMenB+OMV (NW) 
rMenB 
booster 12 
months after last 
vacc. in V72P1 
open label 
extension 
rMenB+OMV (NW) 
rMenB 
15 
13 
7 
7 
Page 23/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 
Study 
Location 
Year 
Age at 
Enrollmenta,b (S
chedule) 
Type of study 
Vaccine Group 
N 
enrolled 
2 
1 
2 
)
Z
N
V
M
O
+
B
n
e
M
r
(
n
o
i
t
a
l
u
m
r
o
F
e
n
i
c
c
a
V
l
a
n
i
F
V72P2  
US 
2004/06 
V72P3  
US 
2006/07 
19-40y 
(0,1,2,6 or 0,2,6c) 
single blind 
randomized controlled 
11-18y 
(0,2,6c) 
single blind 
randomized controlled 
observer blind 
single center 
randomized 
open 
multicenter 
open 
multicenter 
randomized 
controlled 
Open label 
single-center 
extension 
Single-blind 
single-center 
randomized 
open label 
single-center 
extension 
open 
multicenter 
randomized 
V72P5 
Switzerland 
2006 
18-40y 
(0,1,2c) 
V72P4 
Italy, 
Germany 
2007/09 
V72P6 
UK 
2006/08 
18-50y 
(0,2,6c) 
(MenACWY at 
month 7) 
2 mo 
(2,4,6,12 or 12 
mo) 
• booster dose at 
40 mo after 4 
doses (at 
2,4,6,12 mo)  
• 2 doses at 40,42 
mo after one 
dose at 12 mo 
• 2 doses at 40,42 
mo 
6-8mo 
(6,8,12 mo) 
40, 60 mo 
• 4th booster dose 
at 40 mo 
• 2 doses in naive 
children (40,42 
mo & 60,62 
mo) 
2mo 
(2,4,6 or 2,3,4mo) 
V72P6E1 
2010/going 
V72P9 
UK 
2007/08 
V72P9E1 
2010/12 
V72P12d 
Belgium, 
Italy, 
Germany, 
Spain, Czech 
Republic 
2008/10 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
rMenB+OMV (NW) 
rMenB 
Control vaccines (Engerix 
B for months 0,1,6 and 
Menomune at month 2) 
rMenB+OMV (NW) 
rMenB 
placebo 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
rMenB+OMV(NW) 
rMenB 
rMenB+OMV NZ  
rMenB (2,4,6,12) 
rMenB+OMV NZ(2,4,6,
12) 
rMenB (12) 
rMenB+OMV NZ (12) 
rMenB (2,4,6,12,40) 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
(2,4,6,12,40) 
rMenB (12,40,42) 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
(12,40,42) 
rMenB+OMV NZ (naive 
40, 42) 
rMenB 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rMenB (6,8,12,40) 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
(6,8,12,40) 
rMenB+OMV NZ (naive 
40,42) 
rMenB+OMV NZ (naive 
60,62) 
rMenB+OMV NZ 2,4,6 
or 2,3,4 with 
concomitant Routine  
rMenB+OMV NZ 2,4,6 + 
Routine (3,5,7)  
•  Routine (2,3,4) 
• 
• 
32 
32 
14 
79 
83 
41 
28 
28 
14 
54 
48 
50 
25 
24 
29 
19 
14 
8 
43 
30 
30 
16 
14 
41 
49 
627/318 e 
628 
312 
Page 24/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of study 
Vaccine Group 
Phase 
Study 
Location 
Year 
V72P12E1d 
2009/11 
Age at 
Enrollmenta,b (S
chedule) 
12, 18, 24 mo 
• 4th booster 
dose at 12, 18 
or 24 mo;  
• 2 catch up 
doses at 12-14, 
18-20 mo 
(naive) and in 
naive children 
(24-26 mo) 
open label 
multicenter 
extension 
• 
• 
• 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
booster at 12, 18 or 24 
months of age in subjects 
who received 3 doses of 
rMenB+OMV NZ 2,4,6 
+ Routine at 2,3,4 or 
2,4,6 months in V72P12 
rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 
and 14 months (in 
subjects who received 
routine at 2,3,4) 
rMenB+OMV NZ at 18, 
20 and at 24, 26 months 
of age 
8 vaccine groups injected 
with either different 
composition or formulation 
process of the 
meningococcal B antigens 
(groups I-VI), or with 
concomitant administration 
of paracetamol 
(Par+B+OMV, group VIII), 
or receiving the control 
vaccine (MenC, group VII) 
8 vaccine groups injected 
with different chronologies 
of rMenB+OMV NZ or 
placebo at study month 
0,1,2,6  
•  3 lots rMenB+OMV NZ 
with concomitant 
Routine 
•  Routine 
•  Routine+MenCf 
Each of the three groups 
from V72P13 were 
administered a booster 
MenB at 12 mo and MMRV 
concomitantly or 1 month 
afterwards, making 6 
groups in total 
N 
enrolled 
Total 1588 
73+78+106 
143+164+1
74 
152+157+1
88 
246 
51+56 
Total 1507 
949 
188 (Group 
I) 
184 (Group 
VIII) 
186 
Total 1631 
375 (1 dose) 
628 (2 
doses) 
628 (3 
doses)  
2481 (833+ 
828+ 820) 
659 
490 
Total 2249 
402 
1555 
292 
Page 25/102 
2mo 
(2,3,4mo) 
V72P16 
Czech 
Republic 
Hungary 
Italy  
Argentina 
Chile 
2009/11 
partially observer-
blind 
multicenter 
randomized 
controlled 
dose-ranging 
formulation-finding  
3 
V72P10 d 
Chile 
2008/10 
11-17y  
(1 dose, or 2 
doses [0,1 or 0,2], 
or 3 doses [0,1,2 
or 0,2,6 or 0,1,6]c) 
observer-blind 
multicenter 
randomized 
controlled 
V72P13 
Italy, 
Germany, 
Austria, 
Czech 
Republic, 
Finland 
2008/10 
V72P13E1 
Italy, 
Germany, 
Austria, 
Czech 
Republic, 
Finland 
2009/10 
2mo  
(2,4,6 mo) 
partially blinded 
multicenter 
randomized 
controlled 
• open label 
randomized 
multicenter 
extension 
12mo  
• 2 catch up 
doses at 12, 14 
or 13, 15 mo 
• 4th booster 
dose at 12mo  
• 1 dose at 12mo 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 
Study 
Location 
Year 
Age at 
Enrollmenta,b (S
chedule) 
V72P13E2 
2010/11 
naive 23 mo 
Type of study 
Vaccine Group 
N 
enrolled 
open label 
randomized 
multicenter 
extension 
•  12 months persistence to 
12 months booster given 
in V72P13E1 
Total 508 
305 
•  3rd rMenB+OMV NZ 
dose to 2-dose catch up 
subjects of V72P13E1 
•  2 rMenB+OMV NZ 
doses in naive children 
(24, 26 mo) 
86 
116 
a y – years; b mo – months; c schedules are in months; dV72P12 is phase 2b and its extension V72P12E1; V72P10 and 
its extension V72P10E1 are phase 2b/3; eN=627 for the 2,4,6 rMenB+OMV NZ with concomitant Infanrix Hexa and 
Prevenar schedule and N= 318 for the 2,3,4 rMenB+OMV NZ with concomitant Infanrix Hexa and Prevenar 
schedule; fMenjugate, Novartis meningococcal C conjugate vaccine; Note: the manufacturing lot numbers for 
rMenB+OMV NZ used in these studies are detailed in section 5.2 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
As per current guidance (CPMP/SWP/465/95), pharmacokinetic studies are not generally required for 
vaccines; therefore, pharmacokinetic studies (absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion) 
have not been conducted with Bexsero.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic studies were not conducted since, as is common for vaccines, the pharmacodynamic 
profile for the rMenB+OMV vaccine is defined by its immunogenicity profile.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
No efficacy studies were performed during the clinical development of Bexsero. For practical reasons, 
meningococcal efficacy trials in non-epidemic settings are not considered feasible. Thus, the licensure 
application is based on a serological surrogate marker for protection, serum bactericidal antibody 
(SBA). The SBA measures the level of antibodies that recognize bacterial surface antigens and are 
capable of directing complement-mediated bacterial lysis, the main mechanism by which N. 
meningitidis serogroup B strains are killed after natural infection.  
The primary endpoint of studies contained within this dossier is to determine the proportion of subjects 
with hSBA titers equal to or above the threshold of 1:4 against each of three reference meningococcal 
serogroup B strains. The use of this threshold is based on the work by Goldschneider showing that a 
naturally acquired serum bactericidal antibody titer of ≥1:4 (by SBA using endogenous human 
complement) provided protection against serogroup C among young adults. In addition efficacy data 
from the Norwegian OMV vaccine trials suggesting that hSBA titers ≥1:4 correlate with clinical efficacy 
further supports the use of serum bactericidal antibody as an appropriate surrogate marker for 
protection against disease caused by meningococcal serogroup B. While in the early studies the 
percentage of subjects with a titer greater than or equal to 1:4 was calculated, in the phase 2b and 3 
studies, the threshold was set to a more conservative 1:5 as this ensures with 95% confidence that 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 26/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects with a titer of 1:5 or greater will have achieved a titer of at least 1:4. This was based on a 
validation of the Novartis hSBA that has shown that the lower limit of the two-sided 95% confidence 
interval for a titer of 1:5 is a titer of 1:4, using linear interpolated hSBA titers. In addition to the 1:4 
cut-off, data on SBA titers ≥1:8 were provided in some studies, as well as reverse cumulative 
distribution curves. A higher titre could be correlated to long-term protection.  
Selection of Serogroup B Reference Strains 
Three reference strains have been selected for the SBA assay. They are virulent strains isolated from 
cases of invasive disease and each susceptible to killing by serum bactericidal antibodies directed 
primarily against only one of the three vaccine antigens. The same three reference strains were used in 
all studies described below. This strategy has been endorsed by the CHMP Scientific Advice procedures. 
Using human complement as the external complement source in the SBA assay has also been 
endorsed.  
Three validation reports for the serum bactericidal assay have been presented. Using a number of test 
sera the accuracy, precision, linearity and specificity was determined using a standard design for 
validation. The method fulfils the appropriately set criteria for the different properties and is therefore 
suitable for measuring clinical samples for documentation of immunogenicity.  
For the fourth vaccine antigen NHBA, no suitable reference SBA strain was available at the time of the 
clinical development program. A strain was identified late in the clinical program and it has also been 
validated. At the time of the original application, data was only available from a subset of subjects in 
study V72P13E1. The Company has submitted additional data from children and adolescents with this 
strain during the procedure. 
Strain 
NZ98/254 
HH44/76 
5/99 
M10713* 
Vaccine antigen 
PorA1.4 antigen in the OMV NZ 
fHbp 
NadA 
NHBA 
*A suitable reference strain for evaluating NHBA-specific bactericidal killing (strain) was recently been identified 
(M10713). SBA data are currently available against this strain fromV72P6E1, V72P9E1, V72P10, V72P12E1, 
V72P13E2, V72P16. 
NHBA measurements by ELISA 
For the heparin binding protein (NHBA or 287 antigen), no reference strain to measure antigen-specific 
killing was initially identified. Therefore, ELISA has been used to measure antibody responses against 
the NHBA/287 antigen throughout clinical development.  
The ELISA data from clinical studies demonstrates potent antibody response against the NHBA elicited 
by the vaccine. More recently, a suitable reference strain, M10713, specifically sensitive to bactericidal 
antibodies against NHBA was identified to measure SBA in clinical studies in in infants, toddlers, 
children and adolescents. As the SBA measures functional antibodies killing bacteria, these data are 
considered more important than ELISA measurements.  
Estimation of vaccine coverage 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 27/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Traditional typing methods such as those based on serological reactivity using reference antibodies 
(serogrouping, serotyping, serosubtyping) or genetic screening (MLST) are not appropriate means of 
defining which meningococcal strains will be covered by rMenB+OMV NZ-elicited immune sera.  
To assess the potential breadth of coverage of the MenB vaccine against circulating meningococcal 
strains within a given population, the Applicant has developed a method for assessing whether a given 
strain is susceptible to killing by antibodies induced against the four major antigen components of the 
MenB vaccine, PorA, fHbp, NHBA and NadA. The typing method is termed the “Meningococcal Antigen 
Typing System” or MATS.  
In principle the MATS enables far more precise estimation of vaccine coverage than previously 
possible. As such it represents a significant step forward in the effort to develop broadly protective 
vaccines against meningococcal disease. 
The MATS is not regarded by the Applicant as part of the bioanalytical procedures that needs 
validation. However, the success of the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine will depend on the match between 
antigens in the vaccine and meningococcal strains that cause disease. Therefore, the properties of 
MATS and the relevance of the relative potency (RP) and positive bactericidal threshold (PBT) should 
be part of the clinical efficacy evaluation.  
To avoid that antibodies specific to other antigens present within the same strain could contribute to 
the SBA, strains genetically mismatched to the given vaccine antigen were used. 
Typing of strains for susceptibility to killing by antibodies directed against the antigens fHbp, NHBA and 
NadA is performed by means of an ELISA method that measures both the immunological relatedness 
and the relative level of expression of each vaccine recombinant protein antigen. Finally, the strain 
panel was tested in hSBA using pooled sera from vaccinees of different age groups, and related 
bactericidal killing to vaccine antigen phenotype as evaluated by the new assay. From these studies, a 
model that can be used to estimate the potential effectiveness of a vaccine against diverse strains of 
MenB was developed.  
Overall, the proposed strategy for estimating the efficacy of the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine is considered 
acceptable, i.e. first determination of frequency of responders to each antigen, followed by an 
estimation of proportion of strains susceptible to killing by immune sera. This issue has also been the 
subject of CHMP Scientific advices. 
Novartis has assessed the potential effectiveness of the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine using a subset of the 
meningococcal serogroup B strains that are currently available in Europe. This subset, provided by five 
European reference laboratories, consists of 1053 meningococcal invasive strains isolated during the 
2007-2008 epidemiologic year (July 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008) in the following European countries: 
Norway, UK, Germany, France  and Italy. The complete strain panel has now been characterised and 
based on MATS data derived from the 1052 typeable strains, an estimated 78% (95% CI: 63%; 90%) 
of strains are predicted to be covered by the vaccine. As MATS does not account for the activity of 
bactericidal antibodies generated from non-PorA components of OMV or the synergistic effects of the 
multiple component of Bexsero, this is considered to be a conservative estimate of vaccine strain 
coverage. 
The strain collection covers Western Europe only and epidemiological data from Central and Eastern 
Europe are still largely lacking, although preliminary reports of strain coverage in the Czech Republic 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 28/102 
 
 
 
 
and Greece were provided during the approval procedure. The Czech and the Greek data were 
generally in line with the Western European data, 74% (95%CI: 58 – 87%) and 88% (95% CI: 60-
96%) respectively, which is reassuring. The Company position that it is important that the 
epidemiological studies are discussed and planned together with ECDC is endorsed. 
The stability of the vaccine antigens has been the subject of a separate study, which included a strain 
collection from the Netherlands covering 50 years. The results of this study strongly indicate that the 
presence of vaccine antigen genes is very stable over time. 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
No formal dose-response studies were originally performed for this product. The amount of OMV in the 
vaccine is based on the experience with the OMV vaccine used in New Zealand, which was based on 
the development of an OMV vaccine in Norway. The doses of the recombinant protein components are 
based on non-clinical experiments in mice, and generally expected to be in line with other protein 
vaccines.  
The studies included in this section aim to describe choice of OMV component, dosing schedule and to 
some extent the use of concomitant routine vaccinations.  
Composition: The choice of composition was studied in V72P5 for adults, V72P6 for Infants and 
V72P9 for toddlers (6-8 months). In these studies rMenB with and without OMV was used, and in 
V72P5 both OMV NZ and OMV NW were included.  
Dose schedule: Different dosing schedules in infants were used in study V72P12 (three doses 1-2 
months apart), V72P13 (three doses two months apart, immune responses measured after 3rd dose) 
and V72P6 (three doses two months apart, immune responses measured after 2nd and 3rd dose).  
A single booster dose after infant vaccinations was studied in V72P6, V72P13E1 (described in 2.5.2 
Main studies) and V72P12E1 after 3 doses. Thus data on booster vaccination after 2 dose priming in 
infants has not been studied.  
Dose schedule in older infants, 6-8 months of age was studied in V72P9, (2+1 doses were given 2 
months apart). Unvaccinated toddlers were vaccinated with 2 doses in study V72P13E1 (described in 
section 2.5.2 Main studies). Unvaccinated children were vaccinated with 2 doses in study V72P13E2, 
V72P6E1 and V72P9E1 (described in section 2.5.2 Main studies)The dosing schedule was studied in 
adolescents (11-17 years of age) in V72P10 (described in section 3.4 Main studies). Immune 
responses after 1, 2 and 3 doses given at least 1 month apart were studied.  
The dosing schedule in adults was studied in V72P5 (immune responses measured after 2nd and 3rd 
dose).  
Concomitant vaccinations: The effect of concomitant routine infant vaccinations on rMenB+OMV 
vaccine was studied in V72P12, and the impact on routine infant vaccinations of concomitant 
vaccination with rMenB+OMV was studied in V72P12 and V72P13. In study V72P13E1 rMenB+OMV was 
given with or without concomitant MMR vaccination.  
Study V72P5: A Phase 1, Observer Blind, Single-center, Randomized Study of the Safety, Tolerability 
and Immunogenicity of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine +/- OMV When Administered at 
a 0, 1, 2-Month Schedule in Healthy Adults 18-40 Years of Age. 
Methodology 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 29/102 
 
 
 
 
 
This was a Phase I, observer-blind, single-center, randomized study in healthy adults. Novartis 
Recombinant Meningococcal Vaccine +/- OMV was to be administered intramuscularly (IM) according 
to a 0-, 1-, and 2-month immunization schedule. A cohort of healthy adults 18 through 40 years of age 
was to be randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio to one of the following three groups: 
Group I - Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine + OMV New Zealand (NZ) at 0, 1, and 2 
months: 26 subjects (rMenB + OMV NZ) 
Group II - Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine + OMV Norway (NW) at 0, 1, and 2 
months: 26 subjects (rMenB + OMV NW) 
Group III - Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine without OMV at 0, 1, and 2 months: 13 
subjects (rMenB) 
Blood samples were collected for meningococcal serology (bactericidal activity and immunoglobulin G 
[IgG] antibody levels) and selected clinical laboratory tests from all subjects at baseline and during the 
study (to assess any significant changes from the screening values). 
In addition, ad hoc blood samples were collected in a subset of 10 subjects per vaccination group at 
baseline and at 6 months after the third dose to explore the ability of Novartis Meningococcal B 
Recombinant Vaccine +/- OMV to elicit long-term B cell memory responses. 
Objectives 
Immunogenicity Objectives 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To explore the immunogenicity of three dose of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine 
+/- OMV in healthy adults at 30 days after the third dose, by evaluation of the breadth of 
bactericidal activity (SBA) response against a panel of genetically distinct meningococcal 
strains. Immunogenicity may be explored at other time points. 
To explore the immunogenicity of three doses of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant 
Vaccine +/- OMV in healthy adults at 6 months after the third dose by evaluation of the 
breadth of SBA response against a panel of genetically distinct meningococcal strains. 
To explore the induction of specific antibody responses by enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA) at 30 days after the third dose of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant 
Vaccine +/- OMV. In addition, specific antibody responses by ELISA may be explored at other 
time points (e.g., at 6 months after the third dose). 
To explore the ability of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine +/- OMV to elicit long-
term B cell memory responses, by in vitro assay evaluation of vaccine specific memory B cell 
frequency aimed to determine frequencies of circulating memory B lymphocytes that can be 
induced to release serogroup B meningococcal- (MenB-) or OMV-specific antibodies. Ad hoc 
blood samples were collected, in a subset of 10 subjects per vaccination group, at baseline and 
6 months after the third dose. 
Demographic and Other Baseline Characteristics 
The average age was 32 years in all three vaccine groups, ranging from 18 to 38 years in the rMenB + 
OMV NZ group, from 25 to 39 years in the rMenB + OMV NW group, and from 22 to 40 years in the 
rMenB group. In all three vaccine groups, a majority of the subjects were males (57-86%). Most 
subjects from all vaccine groups were Caucasian (86-89%). Mean subject weight on enrollment was 70 
kg in the rMenB + OMV NZ group, 72 kg in the rMenB + OMV NW group, and 73 kg in the rMenB 
group. Mean height was 172 cm both in the rMenB + OMV NZ group and in the rMenB + OMV NW 
group and 175 cm in the rMenB group. The mean body mass index (BMI) was 24 in all three vaccine 
groups. Study entry criteria were fulfilled by all subjects in all vaccine groups. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 30/102 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity results 
Table 1 summarizes the panel of meningococcal B strains used in this study to assess serum 
bactericidal activity of the investigational vaccines. The criteria for selection of this panel of 15 
meningococcal B strains included genetic diversity, clonal complexity, geographic distribution, PorA/B 
assortment, and year of isolation. This same panel of strains was included in the assessment of the 
bactericidal activity of these vaccines in the non-clinical immunogenicity studies performed in mice and 
baboons and the phase 1 clinical studies V72P1 and V72P2. The sequence of the vaccine component 
protein antigen 287 is derived from N meningitidis strain NZ98/254 (also referred to as 394/98); the 
sequences for vaccine component antigens 953, 936, and 961c are derived from strain 2996, and the 
sequence for vaccine component antigen 741 is derived from strain MC58. The OMV vaccine 
component in rMenB + OMV NZ is derived from strain NZ98/254, while the OMV vaccine component in 
rMenB + OMV NW is derived from strain HH44/76. 
ET 
ST 
Year 
Country 
Table 1 Description of the Panel of Genetically Distinct Meningococcal Strains Used in the Study 
Serotyping 
Strain 
Sero 
Group 
B 
Norway 
B 
UK 
B 
USA 
B 
UK 
B 
AUS 
B 
Norway 
B 
UK 
B 
Cuba 
USA 
B 
New Zealand  B 
B 
USA 
B 
CSI 
B 
USA 
B 
UK 
B 
USA 
5/99 
2996 
M6190 
GB364 
95N477 
HH44/76 
MC58 
CU385 
M4105 
98/254 
M1390 
1000 
M4458 
GB013 
M3812 
ST=sequence type, ET=electrophoretic type, AUS=Australia; CSI=Russia; UK=United Kingdom; USA= United States of America 
B:2b:P1.5,2 
B:2b:P1.5,2 
B:2a:P1.5,2 
B:2a:P1.5,2 
B:2a:P1.2 
B:15:P1.7,16:L3,7,9 
B:15:P1.17,16b 
B:4:P1.15 
B:4,7:P1.7,4 
B:4:P1.4 
B:15:B1.7,4 
B:NT:P1.5 
B:NT:P1.3 
B:NT:P1.22,9 
B:NT:P1.5 
A4 
A4 
ET37 
ET37 
ET37 
ET5 
ET5 
ET5 
Lineage 3 
Lineage 3 
Lineage 3 
other 
other 
other 
other 
1349 
540 
1988 
11 
475 
32 
74 
33 
154 
154 
41 
20 
new 
275 
60 
1999 
1975 
1999 
2001 
1995 
1976 
1985 
1980 
1996 
1998 
1995 
1988 
1998 
2001 
1997 
Proportion of Subjects with Bactericidal Titers ≥ 1:4 at One Month After the Third 
Vaccination 
In the rMenB + OMV NZ group and the rMenB + OMV NW group, the proportion of subjects with 
bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 increased from baseline to 1 month after the third vaccination for 14 of the 15 
tested N meningitidis serogroup B strains (the exception was strain 95N477). In the rMenB group, this 
was the case for 13 of the strains. For 4 of the strains (HH44/76, 5/99, CU385, and MC58), all subjects 
in all vaccine groups achieved bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 at 1 month after the third vaccination. Ninety-
three percent of the subjects in the rMenB + OMV NZ group achieved bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 against 
strain NZ98/254 at 1 month after the third vaccination, while this percentage was lower in the rMenB 
+ OMV NW group (74%) and in the MenB group (54%). For the other strains, similar percentages of 
subjects (ranging from 37% to 100%) in the three vaccine groups achieved bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 at 
1 month after the third dose. 
Proportion of Subjects with Fourfold Rise in Bactericidal Titer 
No major differences were observed between the proportion of subjects with at least 4- fold rise in 
bactericidal titers at 1 month after the second vaccination and at 1 month after the third vaccination; 
i.e., the subjects who achieved a 4-fold rise did so after two vaccinations. 
The proportion of subjects with at least 4-fold rise in bactericidal titers from baseline was generally 
somewhat lower than the proportions of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 at the same time point, 
which might be explained by some subjects having high titers at baseline. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 31/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Geometric Mean Bactericidal Titers (GMTs) 
For all strains, baseline GMTs were comparable between groups. 
Although the titers at 1 month after the third vaccination was the primary immunogenicity variable, 
GMTs of the same magnitude were observed already at 1 month after the second vaccination.  
Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) Antibody Responses 
At 1 month after the third vaccination, geometric mean anti-287-953, anti-936-741, anti-961c, ELISA 
IgG titres were raised compared to baseline in all three vaccine groups. The ELISA IgG titres against 
the OMV NW increased after the rMenB+OMV NW and rMenB+OMV NZ vaccinations, but not after the 
rMenB only vaccination. The two OMV vaccines elicited similar responses to the NW antigen. In 
contrast, the OMV NZ containing vaccine elicited higher IgG titres against the NZ antigen than the NW 
OMV-containing vaccine. The rMenB vaccine elicited modest IgG titres against the NZ antigen.  
The IgG titres generally increased after a third dose compared to the second dose. Generally the titres 
had declined at 6 months following the third dose, but remained increased compared to baseline.  
Persistence of Immune Responses (Results at Six Months After the Third Vaccination) 
When comparing the proportions of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 at 6 months after the third 
vaccination with those at 1 month after the third vaccination a decrease in the proportion of subjects 
with bactericidal titers ≥ 4 was observed for a majority of the strains. However, for some strains, 
unchanged or increased proportions of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥ 1:4 were observed at 6 
months after the third vaccination. 
Similar trends were observed for the other measures of immunogenicity when comparing the results 
from 6 months after the third vaccination with the results from 1 month after the third vaccination.  
The objective to explore the in vitro assay for evaluation of a vaccine-specific memory B cell induced 
by Novartis meningococcal B recombinant vaccine +/- OMV was assessed by cell-mediated immunity 
(CMI). Only a small subset of subjects was identified for the evaluation of the response, which was not 
expected to give a reliable estimate of B cell maturation. 
Ad hoc blood samples were collected in a subset of 10 subjects per vaccination group at baseline and 6 
months after the third dose. Memory B cells were measured for antigens 287-953, 936-741 and 961C. 
The results indicate an increased frequency of B cells after 6 months compared to baseline for antigens 
936-741 and 961C, but the sample size is very small, and the variation appears to be large.  
Study V72P6: A Phase 2, Open Label, Multi-Center, Controlled, Randomized Study of the Safety, 
Tolerability and Immunogenicity of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine±OMV, when 
Administered to Healthy Infants at 2, 4, 6 and/or 12 Months of Age 
Methods 
This was a Phase 2, open label, multi-center, controlled, randomized study in healthy infants aged 2 
months at time of enrollment. Novartis rMenB Vaccine +/- OMV-NZ was administered intramuscularly 
(IM) either according to a 2, 4, 6 and 12 months of age immunization schedule, or as a single dose at 
12 months of age. After obtaining written informed consent from their parents/legal guardians, eligible 
healthy infants were randomized in a 2:2:1:1 ratio. 
Objectives 
Immunogenicity Objective: 
Primary 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 32/102 
 
 
 
 
To explore the immunogenicity of Novartis rMenB Vaccine +/- OMV-NZ when administered to healthy 
infants at 2, 4 and 6 months of age, at 30 days after the third dose, by evaluation of the breadth of 
bactericidal activity (SBA) response against a panel of genetically distinct meningococcal strains. 
A number of secondary objectives relating to SBA responses at various time points were also defined.  
Statistical Methods 
Due to small sample sizes, the immunogenicity analyses were purely exploratory. No statistical tests 
were performed. All analyses were analyzed descriptively. 
The precision of the immunogenicity point estimates for each vaccine group was expressed by the 95% 
CI. The adjusted GMTs and GMRs and associated 95% CIs for each vaccine group were to be calculated 
for each visit and meningococcal strain, by exponentiating (base 10) the least square means of the 
log-transformed (base 10) titers and their 95% CIs from a two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with 
a factor for vaccine group and center.  
Criteria for evaluation 
Immunogenicity : 
A key immunogenicity parameter of interest is the percentage of subjects with a SBA titer ≥ 1:4 
measured at one month after the third immunization. The percentage of subjects with a SBA titer ≥ 
1:4 measured at baseline, at one month after the second dose, at 12 months of age and one month 
later have also been assessed. 
Additionally, the percentage of subjects with no detectable bactericidal titers at baseline (SBA <1:4) 
who had a detectable titer (i.e., SBA ≥1:4) during the study and the associated 95% Clopper-Pearson 
confidence intervals have been calculated by time point, meningococcal strain and vaccine group.  
The percentage of subjects with at least a fourfold rise in titer over the preimmunization titer and the 
associated 95% CIs have been assessed at 30 days following the second and third injection, at the age 
of 12 months and at 30 days later by meningococcal strain and vaccine group. The percentage of 
subjects with at least a fourfold rise in titer at one month after the third injection, at the age of 12 
months and 30 days following the fourth (groups I and II) or first (groups III and IV) injection over the 
pre-third injection and the associated 95% CIs are also assessed by meningococcal strain and vaccine 
group. In addition, the percentages of subjects with titers greater than or equal to other dilutions 
besides 1:4 are assessed by meningococcal strain and vaccine group. 
The bactericidal titers at each time point and their logarithmic transformation (base 10) and 
summarization by meningococcal strain and vaccine group was also performed (summarized as GMTs 
[geometric mean titers] and GMRs [geometric mean ratios]). Measurement of vaccine-specific antibody 
responses by ELISA or other immune response assays was not performed. 
Results 
Study population 
Overall, 147 infants were enrolled and randomized (2:2:1:1) in this study (Table 11.1-1). Of this total, 
79 subjects were included in the Per Protocol (PP) population at one month after second injection and 
77 subjects were included in the PP population a month after the third injection. The PP population, a 
month after booster or first vaccination (for the Routine±OMV groups as they received only one 
vaccination at 12 months of age) included 112 subjects. The PP population included all subjects in the 
MITT population without a major protocol deviation.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 33/102 
 
 
 
 
The demographic and other baseline characteristics were similar across all the four groups, except that 
more male subjects were enrolled in the Routine±OMV groups. 
The mean age was similar in the four vaccine groups at inclusion (60.2 ± 5.3 days; overall mean 
±SD). A total of 85 male infants (58%) and 62 female infants (42%) were enrolled. A majority (95%) 
of the subjects were of Caucasian origin, <1% was of Asian origin, <1% was Black and 4% were of 
other origin. The mean body weight (4.92 ± 0.79 kg; overall mean ±SD) and height (57.05±3.02 cm; 
overall mean ±SD) was similar in the four vaccine groups at inclusion. All the randomized subjects met 
the eligibility criteria. 
Immunogenicity results 
Immunogenicity of three of the major vaccine antigens in the rMenB±OMV vaccine, as measured by 
SBA, was determined using the panel of three major meningococcal serogroup B reference strains: 
strain H44/76-SL, strain 5/99 and strain NZ98/254. The results of the additional strains, UK P1.7-2,4, 
GB355, GB364 and GB101, and LNP20404 serve to provide supplemental information. 
Immunogenicity of three of the major vaccine antigens in the rMenB±OMV vaccine, as measured by 
SBA, was determined using a panel of three meningococcal serogroup B reference strains.  
Four additional meningococcal serogroup B strains (UK P1.7-2, 4, GB355, GB364 and GB101) were 
used to measure SBA responses following vaccination with Novartis rMenB±OMV Vaccine. These four 
strains were selected because 1) they are strains which vary in their vaccine antigen composition 
and/or expression and 2) are representative of the major disease causing types currently in the UK. In 
addition, serogroup B strain LNP 20404, a clinical isolate from a recent outbreak in Normandy, France 
was also used to evaluate the SBA response. These strains will be used to investigate the vaccine’s 
ability to induce a cross-reactive SBA response to genetically diverse serogroup B strains. 
Results for the Three Major MenB Strains 
Proportion of Subjects with Bactericidal titers ≥1:4 
As expected, proportion of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥1:4 against NZ98/254 strain was low in 
the rMenB group [2/37 (5%)]. At 12 months of age (i.e., 6 months after third vaccination), the 
proportion of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥1:4 declined marginally against H44/76 strain and 5/99 
strain. This showed that antibody persisted well against both H44/76 and 5/99 strains. The proportion 
of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥1:4 remained the same as at a month after third vaccination in the 
rMenB group against NZ98/254 strain, however in the rMenB+OMV group, there was a decline in titers. 
At 1 month after the booster injection, an increase in proportion of subjects with bactericidal titers 
≥1:4 was observed for all strains except against strain NZ98/254 in the rMenB group. 
In comparison, the proportion of subjects with titers ≥1:4 in the Routine+OMV group at baseline, was 
twice that of the Routine group against strain H44/76, whereas no baseline titers were detected 
against the other two strains in both groups. 
At one month post-vaccination, the proportion of subjects with titers ≥1:4 was highest in the 5/99 
strain as expected, and lowest in the NZ98/254 strain in the Routine group versus the Routine+OMV 
group. 
At 12 month of age (pre-booster), the proportion of subjects with titers ≥1:4 in the rMenB group 
against strains H44/76 and 5/99 were robust and ranged from 70% to 92% and in the rMenB+OMV 
group ranged from 68% to 88%. In comparison, the proportion of subjects with baseline titers ≥1:4 
(12 months) in the Routine group against strains H44/76 and 5/99 ranged from 0% to 9% and in the 
Routine+OMV group ranged from 0% to 18%. The higher proportion of subjects with robust titers 
observed in the rMenB±OMV groups, who were vaccinated with three doses in infancy were indicative 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 34/102 
 
 
 
 
of induction of immunological memory and priming by the 3-dose infant series. In comparison, the 
Routine±OMV groups which received only a single dose at 12 months, proportion of subjects with titers 
≥1:4 were very low. The minimal response observed for recipients of the rMenB vaccine without OMV 
NZ was expected for strain NZ98/254. 
Proportion of Subjects with Bactericidal titers ≥1:8 
The trends observed in subjects with bactericidal titers ≥1:8 across all three strains were similar to the 
trends observed in subjects with bactericidal titers ≥1:4, although the percentage of subjects achieving 
titers ≥1:8 were lower. 
Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs), Geometric Mean Ratios (GMRs) 
Baseline GMTs were balanced between rMenB and rMenB+OMV groups for all three strains. 
At one month after the second vaccination, highest GMT increase was observed against the 5/99 strain 
in both the rMenB and rMenB+OMV vaccine groups (104 and 71, respectively). Likewise, at one month 
after the third vaccination, the highest GMT increase was observed against the 5/99 strain in both the 
rMenB and rMenB+OMV vaccine groups. The lowest was observed against the NZ98/254 strain. The 
titers against the NZ98/254 strain were much higher in the rMenB+OMV group as expected as 
compared to the rMenB group. At 12 months (after the 4th dose), the GMT increase was the highest in 
the 5/99 strain in both the rMenB and rMenB+OMV vaccine groups. 
Of the five additional strains baseline titres against one strain, GB101, where quite high, and did not 
increase substantially after 2 or three doses. No responses were observed against strain GB355, as 
expected as this strain does not express any of the vaccine antigens. The responses against GB364 
were modest, while the responses against UKP1.7-2,4 and LNP20404 were more robust after 
vaccination with the OMV-containing vaccine. 
V72P9: A Phase 2, Single Blind, Single Center, Randomized Study of the Safety, Tolerability and 
Immunogenicity of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine ± OMV, when Administered to 
Healthy Infants 6-8 months old 
Methodology: 
This was a phase 2, randomized, single blind, single center study in healthy infants aged 6 to 8 months 
at time of enrollment. The three injections of rMenB Vaccine ± OMV were administered intramuscularly 
(IM) at enrollment, (6 - 8 months of age), two months later, and at 12 months of age. To obtain at 
least 48 evaluable subjects, 60 eligible healthy infants 6 to 8 months old at time of enrollment were 
enrolled after obtaining written informed consent from their parents/legal guardians, to afford for a 
20% drop out rate. They were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the following groups: 
rMenB: Novartis MenB recombinant vaccine without OMV: 30 subjects 
rMenB + OMV: Novartis MenB recombinant vaccine with OMV: 30 subjects Novartis rMenB ± OMV 
was administered IM into the antero-lateral area of the right thigh. 
Immunogenicity Objectives 
To explore the immunogenicity of Novartis rMenB Vaccine with or without OMV in healthy infants at 30 
days after the second and the third injections by evaluation of the breadth of bactericidal activity (SBA) 
response against a panel of genetically distinct meningococcal strains. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 35/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
The following measures of immunogenicity were assessed: 
Bactericidal activity (percentage of subjects with SBA titer ≥1:4 and ≥1:8) against a panel of 
genetically distinct meningococcal strains prior to the first dose and 30 days following the second and 
the third dose.  
Bactericidal activity was assessed (geometric mean response, geometric mean ratio to baseline, and 
four-fold rise from baseline) against a panel of genetically distinct meningococcal strains prior to the 
first dose and 30 days following second and third dose. 
Fold rise in titer from baseline and geometric mean concentrations (GMC) of the 287-953 antigen as 
measured by ELISA at 30 days following the second and third dose. 
The immunogenicity analyses were exploratory. However, two-sided statistical tests for differences 
between the rMenB and rMenB+OMV vaccine groups in their ability to elicit an immune response were 
to be performed using a categorical linear model, having a factor for vaccine group. No adjustment to 
account for multiplicity was made. 
Sixty subjects were to be enrolled and to receive one of two investigational vaccines, in order to obtain 
at least 48 evaluable subjects. The sample sizes were selected in order to obtain preliminary safety 
data and preliminary data regarding the effect of the addition of OMV to rMenB on the humoral 
immune responses as measured by SBA in healthy infants 6-8 months old. 
Results 
Demographic and other baseline characteristics 
Mean age at first vaccination was similar between the two vaccine groups (7.0, and 7.1 months 
respectively). Across both vaccination groups, there were 47% and 60% female subjects enrolled as 
compared to 53% and 40% of male subjects, respectively. The majority of subjects was Caucasian 
(83%) and balanced between the vaccine groups. The mean height and weight of the subjects were 
similar between both the vaccine groups. All the randomized subjects met the eligibility criteria. 
Immunogenicity results 
Summary of Subjects with a SBA Titer ≥ 1:4 and ≥ 1:8 for the Three Major Strains 
Proportion of Subjects with Bactericidal titers ≥1:4: One month after the second injection, all subjects 
in both the vaccine groups achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:4 against the HH44/76 and 5/99 strains. For 
the NZ98/254 strain, 1 subject (4%) in the rMenB group and 21 subjects (95%) in the rMenB+OMV 
group achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:4 (p<0.001). One month after the third injection, all subjects in 
both the vaccine groups achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:4 against the H44/76 and 5/99 strains. For the 
NZ98/254 strain, 2 subjects (9%) in the rMenB group and 23 subjects (96%) in the rMenB+OMV group 
achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:4 (p<0.001). The minimal response observed for recipients of the 
rMenB vaccine without OMV NZ was expected for strain NZ98/254, as this strain is measuring 
bactericidal activity primarily against the PorA protein in the OMV NZ component of the vaccine. 
Proportion of Subjects with Bactericidal titers ≥1:8: Baseline bactericidal titers ≥1:8 were similar 
between the vaccine groups among the strains (0 to 4%). One month after the second injection, 
almost all subjects in both vaccine groups achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:8 against H44/76 and 5/99 
strains (range, 96% to 100%). For the NZ98/254 strain, no subject in the rMenB group and 20 (91%) 
subjects in the rMenB+OMV group achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:8 (p<0.001). One month after the 
third injection, all subjects in both the vaccination groups achieved bactericidal titers ≥1:8 against the 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 36/102 
 
 
 
 
H44/76 and 5/99 strains. For the NZ98/254 strain, bactericidal titers ≥1:8 were achieved by 1 subject 
(5%) in the rMenB group and 23 subjects (96%) in the rMenB+OMV group and (p<0.001). 
Summary of Subjects with a SBA Titer ≥ 1:4 and ≥ 1:8 for the Four Additional Strains 
Baseline titers ≥1:8 were not observed in any of the two groups against the UK P1.7-2,4, GB364 and 
GB355 strains, but were observed in only 2 subjects in the rMenB+OMV group for the GB101 strain. 
One month after the second injection, the bactericidal titers of ≥1:8 were achieved against two strains 
(GB101 and GB364) in the rMenB group and against three strains (UKP1.7- 2,4 , GB101 and GB364) in 
the rMenB+OMV group. Bactericidal titers of ≥1:8 were achieved by no subjects in the rMenB and 16 
(18%) subjects in rMenB+OMV group for the UK P1.7-2,4 strain. For the GB364 strain 14 (74%) 
rMenB and 11 (69%) rMenB+OMV subjects achieved titers ≥1:8, and for the GB101 strain 2 (9%) 
rMenB and 7 (33%) rMenB+OMV subjects achieved the same. None of the subjects in either group 
achieved titers ≥1:8 against the GB355 strain. 
One month after the third injection, for the UK P1.7-2,4 strain no subjects in the rMenB, but 21 
subjects (95%) in rMenB+OMV group achieved a bactericidal titer ≥1:8 (p<0.001). For GB364 strain, 
bactericidal titer ≥1:8 was achieved in 12 (71%) rMenB subjects and 16 (84%) rMenB+OMV subjects. 
For the GB101 strain, 3 (14%) rMenB and 10 (45%) rMenB+OMV subjects achieved the same 
(p=0.021). None of the subjects achieved the bactericidal titer ≥1:8 at even one month after the third 
injection for strain GB355. 
Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) Antibody Responses for 287-953 Protein Antigen 
Baseline concentrations were similar between the two vaccine groups. At one month after the second 
and third injections, geometric mean anti-287-953 IgG concentrations were statistically higher in the 
rMenB+OMV group than the rMenB group. 
A significant increase in geometric mean ratios over baseline for the 287-953 protein antigen was 
observed after the second vaccination (73: rMenB and 139: rMenB+OMV) and a further increase was 
observed after the third vaccination (100: rMenB and 169: rMenB+OMV) for both vaccine groups. 
V72P12: A Phase 2b, Open Label, Randomized, Parallel-Group, Multi-Center Study to Evaluate the 
Safety, Tolerability and Immunogenicity of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine When 
Administered with or without Routine Infant Vaccinations to Healthy Infants According to Different 
Immunization Schedules. 
Methods 
This was a Phase 2b, open label, multi-center, randomized, parallel group study in healthy infants aged 
approximately 2 months at time of enrollment. rMenB+OMV NZ was administered intramuscularly (IM) 
at 2, 4 and 6, or 2, 3 and 4 months of age. 
Subjects were randomized in a 2:2:1:1 ratio per schedule: 
•  Group 1: One dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 2, 4, and 6 months of age, administered 
concomitantly with routine infant vaccinations. (B+R246) 
•  Group 2: One dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 2, 4, and 6 months of age; routine infant 
vaccinations administered at 3, 5 and 7 months of age. (B246+R357) 
•  Group 3: One dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 2, 3, 4 months of age, administered concomitantly 
with routine infant vaccinations. (B234) 
•  Group 4: Routine infant vaccines administered at 2, 3 and 4 months of age. (R234) 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 37/102 
 
 
 
 
Meningococcal serology was performed at baseline and post-3rd dose of rMenB+OMV NZ for groups 1 - 
3 (i.e. groups 1 and 2 at 7 months of age, group 3 at 5 months of age) and post-3rd dose of routine 
vaccines for group 4 (i.e. 5 months of age). Routine vaccines serology was performed. Blood samples 
were collected at baseline and post-3rd routine vaccines dose (5 months of age) for those subjects 
belonging to groups 3 and 4. 
Objectives 
Immunogenicity: 
Primary 
1. To demonstrate a sufficient immune response of rMenB+OMV NZ, when given concomitantly with 
routine infant vaccines to healthy infants at 2, 4 and 6 and 2, 3 and 4 months of age, as measured by 
percentage of subjects with serum bactericidal activity (SBA) titer ≥1:5, at 1 month after the third 
vaccination. 
Secondary 
1. To demonstrate that the immunogenicity of routine infant vaccines, when given concomitantly with 
rMenB+OMV NZ to healthy infants at 2, 3 and 4 months of age, was non-inferior to that of routine 
infant vaccines given without rMenB+OMV NZ. 
2. To demonstrate that the immunogenicity of rMenB+OMV NZ when given concomitantly with routine 
infant vaccines was non-inferior to that of rMenB+OMV NZ given without routine infant vaccines at 2, 4 
and 6 months of age. 
3. To assess the prevalence of meningococcal B antibodies over the study period by evaluation of SBA, 
at baseline and at 1 month after the third vaccination, in the subjects that received routine infant 
vaccines without rMenB+OMV NZ. 
4. To characterize the immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by ELISA, at 1 
month after the third vaccination. 
Statistical methods 
Immunogenicity 
For all groups percentages of subjects with hSBA titers ≥1:5 and associated 95% Clopper Pearson CIs 
were computed at 30 days following three doses for each meningococcal B strain. 
The percentage of subjects with antibody response against B. pertussis, diphtheria and tetanus toxoid, 
H. influenzae type b, polio, hepatitis B and the 7 pneumococcal antigens a pre-specified level and 95% 
CI, at one month following the third vaccination were calculated for groups 3 and 4. Differences in 
these percentages were calculated as well. 
The GMCs and 95% CIs were constructed by exponentiating the least squares means of the 
logarithmically transformed titers and their associated 95% CIs obtained from a two way Analysis of 
Variance (ANOVA) with factors for vaccine group and study center.  
SBA Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) or ELISA Geometric Mean Concentrations (GMCs) and 95% CIs for 
the three rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine groups were calculated by exponentiating the least squares means 
and the lower and upper limits of the 95% CIs of the log transformed titers obtained from a two-way 
ANOVA with factors for vaccine group and study center. 
Results 
Disposition of Subjects 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 38/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 1885 subjects were enrolled and 1799 subjects completed the study. In all, 86 subjects 
withdrew due to AEs, consent withdrawal, lost to follow-up, inappropriate enrollment, administrative 
reasons and protocol deviations. No deaths were reported in this study. There were no major 
differences between the groups. 
Demographic and Other Baseline Characteristics 
The demographic and other baseline characteristics were balanced across the different vaccination 
groups. The majority of the immunogenicity subjects were Caucasian (91% to 95%). Gender 
distributions were similar across the vaccination groups. Age, height and weight were similar across 
the vaccination groups. 
Percentage of Subjects with hSBA Titers ≥1:5 
The primary objective was to demonstrate a sufficient immune response of rMenB+OMV NZ, when 
given concomitantly with routine infant vaccines to healthy infants at 2, 4 and 6 (Group B+R246) and 
2, 3 and 4 months of age (Group B+R234), as measured by percentage of subjects with serum 
bactericidal activity (hSBA) titer ≥1:5, at 1 month after the third vaccination. The results are 
summarised in Table 2. The results were similar for the PP population.  
Table 2 Geometric Mean Bactericidal Titers (GMTs) and Ratios of GMTs (95% CI) - PP Population 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 39/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A secondary objective was to demonstrate that the immunogenicity of rMenB+OMV NZ when given 
concomitantly with routine infant vaccines (Group 1 [B+R246]) was non-inferior to that of rMenB+OMV 
NZ given without routine infant vaccines (Group 2 [B246_R357]) at 2, 4 and 6 months of age (Group 1 
vs. Group 2 ). 
Non-inferiority of the immune response for Group 1 (B+R246) compared to Group 2 (B246_R357) was 
demonstrated for strain H44/76 and for strain 5/99 (2-sided 95% LCLs -1% for both). For strain 
NZ98/254, however, the 2-sided 95% LCL was -12%; thus, non-inferiority of the immune response to 
strain NZ98/254 could not be established for Group 1 (B+R246). 
After the third rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination, hSBA GMTs against the three strains were similar between 
Groups 1 (B+R246) and 2 (B+R234). In contrast, a higher increase in hSBA GMTs was seen in the 
subjects who received the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination separately from the routine vaccination (Group 
2 [B246_R357]. 
Immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953 
The immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by ELISA, at 1 month after the 
third vaccination is summarised in Table 3. 
Table 3 Geometric Mean Bactericidal Antibody Concentrations (GMCs) Measured by ELISA against the 
287-953 Antigen - PP Population 
At the baseline the GMCs were similar across the vaccination groups (range 22-23). One month after 
the third rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination, the GMCs ranged from 3254-4244 with the GMRs being 145-190. 
GMCs were higher in subjects who received rMenB+OMV NZ separately from the routine vaccines. As 
expected, there was almost no change in the GMCs in the control Group 4 (R234). 
Immunogenicity of routine infant vaccines when given concomitantly with the rMenB+OMV vaccine 
The immunogenicity of routine infant vaccines, when given concomitantly with rMenB+OMV NZ to 
healthy infants at 2, 3 and 4 months of age (Group 3 [B+R234]), was compared to that of routine 
infant vaccines given without rMenB+OMV NZ (Group 4 [R234]). 
For each of the below vaccine components non-inferiority was demonstrated if the lower limit of the 
two sided 95% confidence interval for the difference in the percentage of subjects with antibody 
response greater than the pre-specified cut-off for each antigen was greater than -10%.  
Diphtheria: Non-inferiority was demonstrated. 100% of the subjects in both groups had antibody levels 
≥0.1 IU/mL against diphtheria toxoid. 76% and 84% of the subjects in the rMenB+OMV+ routine and 
routine only groups respectively had antibody levels ≥1.0 IU/mL against diphtheria toxoid. 
Tetanus: Non-inferiority was demonstrated. 100% of the subjects in all groups had antibody levels 
≥0.1 IU/mL against tetanus toxoid. 82% and 93% of the subjects in the rMenB+OMV+ routine and 
routine only groups respectively had antibody levels ≥1.0 IU/mL against tetanus toxoid. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 40/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Pertussis: Non-inferiority was demonstrated for seroconversion against FHA, pertactin and PT. In terms 
of the percentage of subjects achieving a fourfold increase in antibody response, which was an 
additional secondary analysis, non-inferiority was also demonstrated for all three pertussis antigens.  
Polio: Non-inferiority was demonstrated for all three polio types.  
Hepatitis B: Non-inferiority was demonstrated. ELISA antibody concentrations ≥10.0 mIU/mL was 
achieved in 96% of rMenB+OMV+ routine group and in 97% of the routine vaccinated only group.  
PRP-Hib: Non-inferiority was demonstrated using the protective cut-off of ≥0.15 μg/mL. In addition, 
the percentage of subjects with ELISA antibody titres ≥1.0 μg/mL was also calculated, and the lower 
limit of the 95% CI was -10 using this cut-off.  
Pneumococcal: Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the 6 of the7 serotypes included in Prevenar. 
Non-inferiority for serotype 6B was not demonstrated as the lower limit of the 95% CI was-14%. 
Study V72P16 The Company has in response to the Day 120 LoQ submitted an interim report for an 
ongoing study, V72P16, in which different doses of OMV and recombinant proteins were compared. The 
final study report shall be submitted (see section 2.7). 
In study V72P16 (preliminary report), subjects were vaccinated at 2, 3 and 4 months of age with 
different formulations of rMenB+OMV NZ with reduced amounts of recombinant proteins and OMV. 
Bactericidal titers were also found to be lower against strains H44/76 and 5/99 when the recombinant 
protein components were reduced by one-half (150μg full dose vs. 75μg) while maintaining an 
unchanged quantity of the OMV component, suggesting that a dose reduction could compromise the 
protective responses to the fHbp and NadA components of the vaccine. 
OMV: The response rate to NZ98/254 decreased from 78% (95% CI: 71; 84) to 67% (95% CI: 59; 
74) when the OMV dose was reduced by one-half, and to 56% (95% CI: 48; 64) when a quarter dose 
was given. The fever (≥38.5°C) rates in the B+OMV and the B+1/2 OMV were very similar (51 and 
50% respectively after the first dose). There were no differences in rate of other systemic or local 
reactions between the full and half dose of OMV together with the full protein dose. Thus, there does 
not seem to be any advantage of giving half the OMV dose, in terms of improved safety, and the lower 
immune responses to the OMV component favours the current formulation.  
Recombinant proteins:  Bactericidal GMTs were lower against strains H44/76 (72 (95% CI: 64; 80) vs. 
100 (95% CI; 90M; 112)) and 5/99 (318 (95% CI: 279; 363) vs. 393 (95% CI: 344; 448)) when the 
recombinant protein components were reduced by one-half (150μg full dose vs. 75μg), suggesting that 
a dose reduction could compromise the protective responses to the fHbp and NadA components of the 
vaccine. The SBA responses to the NHBA component were unexpectedly low in this study, and no 
responses to different protein doses were presented.  
In conclusion, the proposed dose of OMV, fHbp and NadA are considered justified, although there is 
limited data on the NHBA component.  
2.5.2.  Main studies  
Pivotal clinical studies 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 41/102 
 
 
 
 
The pivotal studies include two main study populations, i.e. infants from 2 months of age (study 
V72P13) and 12 to 15 months of age (study V72P13E1), and children and adolescents 11-17 years of 
age (V72P10 in Chile). The infant program used a 3+1 dose schedule administered during the first 
year of life. A two-dose catch-up program during the second year of life was used in study V72P13E1. 
In adolescents different schedules from one to three doses given one to two months apart was used in 
study V72P10.  
Infants study 
V72P13: A Phase 3, Partially Blinded, Randomized, Multi-Center, Controlled Study to Evaluate 
Immunogenicity, Safety and Lot to Lot Consistency of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine 
When Administered with Routine Infant Vaccinations to Healthy Infants 
Booster/catch-up study: 
V72P13E1: A Phase 3, Open label, Multi-Center, Extension Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability 
and Immunogenicity of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine When Administered as a 
Booster at 12 Months of Age or as a Two-dose Catch-up to Healthy Toddlers Who Participated in Study 
V72P13 
Adolescent study: 
V72P10: A Phase 2b/3, Multi-Center, Observer-Blind, Controlled Study of the Safety, Tolerability and 
Immunogenicity of Novartis Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine Administered to Healthy 
Adolescents Aged 11-17 Years According to Different Vaccination Schedules 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Infant study:  
The study population comprised healthy 2-month old infants (55-89 days, inclusive), who were born 
after full term pregnancy with an estimated gestational age ≥37 weeks and a birth weight ≥2.5 kg; for 
whom a parent/legal guardian had given written informed consent after the nature of the study had 
been explained, and who were available for all the visits scheduled in the study. If required by local 
regulations, both parents gave written informed consent. Subjects who had previously received a Men 
B, DTaP-IPV-HBV-Hib, or pneumococcal antigen-containing vaccine, or who had previous ascertained 
or suspected disease caused by N meningitidis, or who had household contact with or intimate 
exposure to an individual with laboratory-confirmed N meningitidis, were excluded. 
Booster/catch-up study 
The study population consisted of healthy 12-month-old toddlers (0/ +59 days) who completed study 
V72P13; for whom parent(s)/legal guardian had given written informed consent after the nature of the 
study was explained. Subjects were recruited from the same sites as in V72P13 in Europe.  
Adolescent study: 
Main Criteria for Inclusion and Exclusion: Individuals eligible to be enrolled into this study were male 
and female subjects who were 11 to 17 years of age, who gave written informed consent, who were 
available for all the scheduled visits and were in good health as determined by the outcome of medical 
history, physical examination and clinical judgment of the investigator. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 42/102 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Infant study: Subjects meeting the enrolment criteria were assigned to one of five vaccination groups 
(ratio 4:4:4:3:3). The rMenB lot1 group, the rMenB lot2 group and the rMenB lot3 group received one 
dose of rMenB+OMV NZ (Lot 1, or Lot 2, or Lot 3, respectively) at 2, 4, and 6 months of age 
concomitantly with the routinely administered infant vaccines (Infanrix Hexa and Prevenar). The 
Routine group received only the routinely administered infant vaccines at 2, 4, and 6 months of age. 
The MenC+Routine group received the routinely administered infant vaccines plus Menjugate at 2, 4 
and 6 months of age. 
Table 4 Time and Events – Overall 
Visit 1 
Visit 2 
Visit 3 
Visit 4 
Visit 5 
2-Months 
4-Months 
6-Months 
rMenB+OMV 
NZ 
Routine 
Vaccination 
rMenB+OMV 
NZ 
Routine 
Vaccination 
7- 
Months 
Blood draw* 
12- 
Months 
Safety 
Follow-up 
N Subjects 
Groups 
800 
rMenB lot1 
800 
rMenB lot2 
800 
rMenB lot1 
600 
Routine 
600 
MenC+Routine 
Blood draw* 
rMenB+OMV 
NZ 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Blood draw 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Menjugate 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Blood draw 
Menjugate 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Menjugate 
Routine 
Vaccination 
Safety 
Follow-up 
Safety 
Follow-up 
* for subjects in the immunogenicity subset 
Booster/catch-up study 
Subjects were assigned to receive a booster or catch-up vaccinations or a single dose of rMenB+OMV 
NZ according to whether they received the primary rMenB+OMV NZ and routine vaccination or routine 
vaccination only in V72P13. All subjects received one dose of combined Measles, Mumps, Rubella and 
Varicella vaccine (MMRV) at 12 or 13 months of age. Other vaccines could be given during the course 
of the trial as long as all Inclusion and no Exclusion Criteria were met. These vaccines should not be 
administered concomitantly with rMenB+OMV NZ and they were not part of study evaluations. 
•  Group 1: Subjects who received rMenB+OMV NZ and routine vaccination in the parent trial 
were randomly allocated to Group 1a or Group 1b in a 1:1 ratio:  
o  Group 1a [12B12M (1a)] received a booster dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of 
age concomitantly with one dose of MMRV. 
o  Group 1b [12B13M (1b)] received a booster dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months. 
One dose of MMRV was given at 13 months of age. 
•  Group 2: Subjects who received routine vaccination only in the parent trial were randomly 
allocated to Group 2a or Group 2b in a 3:1 ratio: 
o  Group 2a [12M13B15B] received MMRV at 12 months of age and two catch-up doses of 
rMenB+OMV NZ at 13 and 15 months of age. 
o  Group 2b [12M12B14B] received two catch-up doses of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 and 14 
months of age. One dose of MMRV was given concomitantly at 12 months of age. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 43/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adolescent study 
Approximately 1625 subjects were planned to be randomized in an observer-blind manner into one of 
8 groups in 1:2:1:2:1:2:3:1 ratio stratified by age group into 11 to 13 years and 14 to 17 years. For 
the primary vaccination period (visit-1 to visit-4) these groups have been combined into 5 groups as 
given in Table 3; the groups that were combined differed in their schedules only after visit-4. The 
number of subjects to be enrolled into each of the vaccine groups, vaccination and blood draw 
schedules are given in Table 5. 
Table 5 Overview of Vaccine Groups Up to Visit-4 
Vaccine Groups 
Visit-1 
Visit-2 
Visit-3 
Visit-4 
Groups 1a & 1b 
(rMenB0) 
N=375 
Groups 2a & 2b 
(rMenB01) 
N=375 
Groups 3a & 3b 
(rMenB02) 
N=375 
Group 4 
(rMenB012) 
N=375 
Group 5 
(Placebo) 
N=125 
Month 0 
Month 1 
Month 2 
Month 3 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Placebo 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Placebo 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Blood draw 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Placebo 
The vaccine groups have been analyzed until one month after the third vaccination (visit-4) as per the 
schedule given in Table 5. An additional dose was administered at month 6. 
Objectives 
Infant study:  
Immunogenicity, Primary: 
• 
• 
To show the consistency of immune response from 3 lots of rMenB+OMV NZ, by serum 
bactericidal activity geometric mean titer response (hSBA GMTs), when administered to 
healthy infants at 2, 4 and 6 months of age, at 1 month after the third vaccination. 
To assess the immunogenicity of 3 doses of rMenB+OMV NZ (3 lots combined) given to healthy 
infants at 2, 4 and 6 months of age concomitantly with routine infant vaccines, by evaluation of 
the serum bactericidal activity (hSBA), at 1 month after the third vaccination. 
Immunogenicity, Secondary: 
• 
To assess the consistency of immune response from 3 lots of rMenB+OMV NZ, as measured by 
percentage of subjects with hSBA titer ≥ 1:5 when administered to healthy infants at 2, 4 and 
6 months of age, at 1 month after the third vaccination. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 44/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
To demonstrate that the immunogenicity of routine infant vaccines when given concomitantly 
with rMenB+OMV NZ at 2, 4 and 6 months of age, is non-inferior to that of routine infant 
vaccines given without rMenB+OMV NZ. 
To assess the prevalence of meningococcal B antibodies over the study period by evaluation of 
the serum bactericidal activity (hSBA), at baseline and at 1 month after the third vaccination, 
in the subjects that received routine infant vaccines without rMenB+OMV NZ. 
To characterize the immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by ELISA, 
at 1 month after the third vaccination. 
Booster/catch-up study 
Immunogenicity: 
Primary 
Demonstration of a sufficient immune response following a fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ 
administered at 12 months of age, either with or without concomitant MMRV vaccination, to toddlers 
previously primed with three doses of rMenB+OMV NZ as infants in Study V72P13. The immune 
response was assessed by the percentage of subjects with serum bactericidal assay (SBA1) titers ≥1:5 
at one month after the fourth dose, directed against N. meningitidis serogroup B reference strains 
H44/76, NZ98/254 and 5/99. The primary criterion to determine a sufficient immune response was 
that for the percentage of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5 the lower limit of the two- sided 95% CI was 
≥75% for all three reference strains. 
Secondary 
•  Demonstration that the immune responses to MMRV vaccination, when administered 
concomitantly with the fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age, are not 
inferior to the immune responses of MMRV when given alone. 
•  Assessment of the immune response following a fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ 
administered at 12 months of age, either with or without concomitant MMRV vaccination, as 
measured by SBA GMTs and percentage of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5 at one month after 
the fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ, directed against N. meningitidis serogroup B reference 
strains H44/76, NZ98/254 and 5/99. 
• 
Evaluation of the persistence of bactericidal antibodies at 12 months of age (predose 4) in 
infants who previously received three doses of rMenB+OMV NZ as infants in Study V72P13, as 
measured by SBA GMTs and the percentage of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5, directed against 
N. meningitidis serogroup B reference strains H44/76, NZ98/254 and 5/99. 
•  Demonstration of the induction of immunological memory in infants who previously received 
three doses of rMenB+OMV NZ as infants in Study V72P13, by comparing the SBA GMT 
response in toddlers administered the fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age to 
the response in naïve toddlers receiving a single dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age. 
• 
Evaluation of the immunogenicity of a two-dose catch-up schedule of rMenB+OMV NZ given at 
13 and 15 months or 12 and 14 months to naïve toddlers, as measured by SBA GMTs and 
percentage of subjects with SBA titres ≥1:5 one month after the second dose. 
•  Characterization of the immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by 
ELISA, one month after the fourth (booster) dose given at 12 months of age, or one month 
after the first dose and one month after the second meningitidis serogroup B reference strains 
H44/76, NZ98/254 and 5/99. Antibody responses to rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine antigen 287-953 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 45/102 
 
 
 
 
and MMRV antigens were measured by ELISA. SBA against additional serogroup B strains may 
be performed to further characterize the immune response to rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination. 
Adolescent study:  
Primary 
• 
To assess the immunogenicity, safety and tolerability of one, two (0,1 or 0,2 schedule) or three 
doses (0, 1, 2 schedule) of Novartis rMenB+OMV NZ in healthy adolescents, by evaluation of 
the serum bactericidal activity using human complement (SBA) response at one month after 
the last rMenB+OMV NZ dose. 
Secondary 
• 
• 
To assess the immunogenicity, safety and tolerability of an additional dose of Novartis 
rMenB+OMV NZ given at Month 6, by evaluation of the serum bactericidal activity using human 
complement (SBA) response at one month after the month 6 rMenB+OMV NZ dose, for 
schedules 0; 0,1 and 0,2. 
To assess the antibody persistence following various vaccination schedules of one, two (0, 1 or 
0, 2 schedule) or three doses (0, 1, 2 schedule) of Novartis rMenB+OMV NZ. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In the clinical studies of rMenB+OMV NZ, the human complement SBA assay has been performed at 
two locations: the clinical serology laboratories at Novartis Vaccines, Marburg, Germany (V72P13, 
V72P13E1), and the Health Protection Agency laboratories in Manchester, England (V72P10). The early 
(Phase 1 and 2) studies were performed by evaluating the percentages of subjects achieving hSBA 
≥1:4 (regarded as protective) and 1:8 as outcomes. In later studies, the lower cut-off was changed 
from 1:4 to 1:5. Using the 1:5 cut-off ensures with 95% confidence that subjects with hSBA of 1:5 or 
greater will have achieved a titer of at least 1:4, which is the titer regarded as protective. This was 
based on a validation of the Novartis hSBA assay that has shown that the lower limit of the two-sided 
95% confidence interval for a titer of 1:5 is a titer of 1:4, using linearly interpolated hSBA titers. It 
should be noted, however, that hSBAs performed outside the Novartis Marburg laboratory (in this 
application, study V72P10), the ≥1:4 cut-off continued to be used.  
Infant study: 
Primary  
• 
Immunogenicity of the 3 lots of rMenB+OMV NZ were considered equivalent if, for each of the 
3 strains and each pair of vaccine lots, the two-sided 95% CI on the ratio of GMTs at 1 month 
after the third vaccination was contained within the interval [0.50, 2.00]. 
•  Bactericidal activity (percentage of subjects with hSBA titer ≥1:5) 30 days following the third 
vaccination (receiving either rMenB+OMV NZ (Lot 1, Lot 2 and Lot 3) .The immune response 
for the Norwegian strain H44/76, New Zealand strain NZ98/254 and 5/99 strain were sufficient 
if the lower limit of the 95% CI for the % ≥1:5 for the three lots combined is ≥70%. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 46/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The success criteria for this study were composite, based on the two co-primary objectives. 
The first objective was to demonstrate that the hSBA response of the three commercial lots 
were equivalent following the third dose of rMenB+OMV NZ. Once this objective was achieved, 
the data from the three lots were combined and the sufficiency of the overall hSBA response 
post-third dose with rMenB+OMV NZ was to be demonstrated. Novartis considered this study a 
success if, for each of the serogroup B reference strains and for each pair of vaccine lots, the 
two-sided 95% CI of the ratio of hSBA GMTs at one month following the third vaccination was 
contained within the interval [0.5, 2.00]; and for each of the serogroup B reference strains, the 
lower limit of the 95% CI for the percentage of subjects with hSBA titers % ≥1:5 at one month 
post-dose 3 was ≥ 70%. 
Secondary 
Immunogenicity of the 3 lots of rMenB+OMV NZ was considered equivalent if, for each of the 3 strains 
and each pair of vaccine lots, the two-sided 95% CI on the difference of percentage of subjects with 
hSBA titer ≥1:5 at 1 month after the third vaccination was contained within the interval [-10%, 10%]. 
The prevalence of meningococcal B antibodies over the study period was assessed by evaluation of the 
serum bactericidal activity (hSBA), at baseline and at 1 month after the third vaccination, in the 
subjects that received routine infant vaccines without rMenB+OMV NZ. 
Characterization of immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by ELISA, one 
month after the third dose, at 7 months of age.  
For routine vaccines, the following analyses were performed:  
The immune response one month after third vaccination with B. pertussis, diphtheria and tetanus 
toxoid, H. influenzae type b, hepatitis B and the 7 pneumococcal antigens was measured by ELISA. 
The percentage of subjects with antibody response against the antigens above a pre-specified level, at 
one month following the third vaccination, was determined in accordance with Table 2-4 below. The 
immune response to Polio type 1, type 2, and type 3 vaccine was measured by neutralization test 
(NT). 
Immunogenicity of the routine infant vaccines, when given concomitantly with rMenB+OMV NZ at 2, 4 
and 6 months of age, was considered non-inferior to that of routine infant vaccines given alone, for 
any of the antigens, if the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the difference in the percentage of 
subjects with antibody response greater than or equal to the cut-off level for that antigen {PConcomitant 
Vaccine +rMenB+OMV NZ minus P Concomitant Vaccine} was greater than -10%. 
Geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) were also calculated for the antigens of the concomitant 
vaccines. For the pertussis component, the immunogenicity of InfanrixHexa given concomitantly with 
rMenB+OMV NZ was considered non-inferior to that of InfanrixHexa alone if the ratio of GMCs (GMC 
rMenB+OMV NZ+InfanrixHexa / GMC InfanrixHexa) was ≥0.67 after vaccination at 2, 4, and 6 months 
of age.  
Booster/catch-up study 
Immunogenicity Criteria: 
Primary: The primary criterion to determine a sufficient immune response was that for the percentage 
of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5 the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI was ≥75% for each of the 
three serogroup B reference strains. 
Secondary 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 47/102 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Immunogenicity of MMRV, when given concomitantly with a fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 
12 months of age, was considered non-inferior to that of MMRV given alone, for any of the 
antigens of MMRV, if the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the difference in the 
percentage of subjects with antibody response {PMMRV + rMenB+OMV NZ minus PMMRV} was 
greater than -10%. 
The immune response of the fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ, when administered with 
or without MMRV at 12 months of age (Groups 12B12M (1a) and 12B13M (1b)), was analyzed 
descriptively by SBA GMTs, ratios of GMTs, percentage of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5 and 
difference in percentages of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5. 
The persistence of antibodies was evaluated descriptively by SBA GMTs and percentage of 
subjects with SBA titer ≥1:5 in 12-month-old toddlers. 
The immune response after a two-dose catch-up series in toddlers was evaluated descriptively 
by SBA GMTs and percentage of subjects with SBA titers ≥1:5. 
Induction of immunological memory following three doses of rMenB+OMV NZ at 2, 4 and 6 
months of age was to be demonstrated by showing a booster response following a fourth dose 
of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age. A booster response was demonstrated if the lower 
limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the ratio of the SBA GMTs following a fourth dose of 
rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age compared to the SBA GMTs following a single dose of 
rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age (GMT Post-dose 4 / GMT Post-dose 1) was ≥2.0. 
Adolescent study  
Primary: The percentage of subjects with an hSBA titer ≥1:4 measured at baseline, Month-1, Month-2, 
Month-3 were calculated. For each meningococcal B strain for which hSBA was measured, the 
percentage of subjects with a titer ≥1:4 and the associated 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals 
(CIs) were tabulated. 
Secondary: The percentage of subjects with a hSBA titer ≥1:8 measured at baseline, Month 1, Month 
2, Month 3 were calculated. For each meningococcal B strain for which hSBA is measured, the 
percentage of subjects with a titer ≥1:8 and the associated 95% Clopper- Pearson CIs were tabulated. 
The percentage of subjects with at least a fourfold rise in hSBA titer over the prevaccination titer and 
the associated 95% Clopper-Pearson CIs were calculated by meningococcal B strain at month-1, 
month-2 and month-3. 
Adjusted geometric mean titers (GMTs), geometric mean ratios (GMRs), and their associated 95% CIs 
were computed for each visit and meningococcal B strain by exponentiating (base 10) the least square 
means of the log-transformed (base 10) titres and their 95% confidence intervals from a two-way 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) with factors for vaccine group and center.For Placebo group, unadjusted 
geometric mean titres (GMTs) and 95% CIs were computed. 
Additionally, all the above-mentioned criteria were also analyzed stratified by prevaccination titer (i.e. 
hSBA titer <1:4 and ≥1:4). Titers below the limit of detection were set to half the limit of detection for 
the purpose of analysis. Additionally, median, minimal, and maximal titers were calculated.  
Sample size 
Infant study:  
The assumptions for sample size calculations were based on the within group variance observed for 
each strain in the Novartis V72P6 infants study post-3rd dose. With 350 evaluable subjects per lot 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 48/102 
 
 
 
 
 
assayed for strains H44/76, 5/99 and NZ98/254, the power to reject the null hypothesis associated 
with the primary lot-to-lot immunogenicity objective and demonstrate immunologic consistency for 
each strain is >99%, >99%, 98% for H44/76, 5/99, and NZ98/254, respectively for an underlying 
highest to lowest GMT ratio of 1.0. Assuming the results for the three strains are independent, the 
overall power to demonstrate immunologic consistency is equal to 98%.  
Based on the antibody response of infants in Novartis study V72P6 who received 3 doses of the 
rMenB+OMV NZ (N=40 to 43) vaccine at 2, 4 and 6 months of age, the percentage of subjects with a 
hSBA titer ≥ 1:4 at 1 month after the third vaccination was 88% (H44/76), 86% (NZ98/254), 95% 
(5/99) (non-interpolated hSBA results). The primary criterion for a sufficient immune response is that 
the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the percentage of subjects with a hSBA titer ≥ 1:5 at 1 
month following the third vaccination is ≥ 70% for strains H44/76, NZ98/254 and 5/99 for the three 
lots combined. The power of this co-primary endpoint is 97% assuming 180 evaluable subjects and 
85%, 85% and 93% of the subjects showing hSBA titer ≥ 1:5 after three doses of rMenB OMV NZ for 
each of the three strains. Assuming 1050 evaluable subjects the power is >99%. 
Booster/catch-up study: 
The assumptions for sample size calculations were based on antibody response of infants in study 
V72P6 The primary criterion for immunogenicity following the fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ was that 
the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the percentage of subjects with a SBA titer ≥1:5 at one 
month following the fourth vaccination was ≥75% for all three strains. Therefore, if the true 
percentage of subjects with bactericidal titers ≥1:5 was 90% for a strain following fourth vaccination of 
rMenB+OMV NZ and there were 120 evaluable subjects for immunogenicity testing, then the 
probability (e.g., or power) that the lower limit of the two-sided 95% confidence interval for the true 
percentage would be 75% or greater was 99%. Therefore, the power was 97% for at least 120 
subjects, and 3 reference strains. 
The overall power for the primary objective, (a sufficient immune response should be demonstrated for 
rMenB+OMV NZ administered with and without MMRV) was 94% (97% x 97%). 
Adolescent study:  
The assumptions for sample size calculations were based on antibody response of adults in study 
V72P5 study. As a fourth strain still had to be identified, calculations were made for three strains with 
expected responses of 95% and 85%. The primary criterion for immunogenicity was that the lower 
limit of the twosided95% CI for the percentage of subjects with an hSBA titer ≥1:4 at 1 month 
following the first, second or third rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination was ≥85% for strains with an expected 
response of 95%, and is ≥75% for a strain with an expected response of 85%. Therefore, as described 
above, if the true percentage of subjects with bactericidal titres ≥1:4 is 85% for a strain following the 
first, second or third vaccination of rMenB+OMV NZ and there are 300 evaluable subjects for 
immunogenicity testing, then the probability (e.g., or power) that the lower limit of the two-sided 95% 
confidence interval for the true percentage will be 75% or greater (e.g., see 1st percentile row under 
column heading of 85% and N = 300) is 99%. 
Randomisation 
Infant study 
Healthy infants in Europe (Italy, Germany, Austria, Finland and Czech Republic), meeting the 
enrolment criteria were assigned to one of five vaccination groups (ratio 4:4:4:3:3).  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 49/102 
 
 
 
 
 
1200 subjects were planned to be enrolled in Finland, Italy, Germany, Switzerland and Austria in an 
observer-blind way (i.e. each subject’s parents or caretakers, as well as the investigators evaluating 
the subject would be blinded as to whether the subject received rMenB+OMV NZ or Menjugate). 
Subjects for the open label immunogenicity subset were enrolled in the Czech Republic and Finland 
(approx. 2400 subjects planned). They were randomized in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to the rMenB lot1 group, 
the rMenB lot2 group, the rMenB lot3 group, or the Routine only group. 
Subjects who met the study admission criteria were enrolled in to the study and were assigned a 6-
digit subject number. The first two digits identified the study site. The next four digits identified the 
subject within the site and were assigned sequentially, with 0001 corresponding to the first subject 
enrolled.  
Booster/catch-up study 
Subjects who met the study admission criteria were enrolled into the study and retained the same 
unique 6 digit subject number assigned to them for the original V72P13 study. The extension of the 
open-label part (immunogenicity part) of the parent trial V72P13 was conducted in Czech Republic and 
Finland (maximum approximately 2600 subjects), as in V72P13. Subjects who received rMenB+OMV 
NZ + routine vaccination in the parent trial were randomized into Group 12B12M (1a) or 12B13M (1b) 
in a 1:1 ratio in the extension trial. Subjects who received routine vaccination only in V72P13 were 
randomized into Group 12M13B15B or 12M12B14B in a 3:1 ratio. The first subjects randomized to 
each subgroup (in all sites in Finland, and in selected sites in Czech Republic) were asked to give blood 
samples at the designated time points. The extension of the observer-blind part (safety part) of the 
parent trial V72P13 was conducted in all countries, which participated in the observer-blind part (safety 
part) in V72P13 (maximum approximately 1000 subjects).  
Adolescent study:  
Subjects were randomly assigned in a 1:2:1:2:1:2:3:1 ratio to one of the vaccination groups, following 
a randomization list created by the Biostatistics and Clinical Data Management (BCDM) department, 
Novartis Vaccines. Two randomization lists, one for each age group were provided to each Investigator 
and were used only by the unblinded study personnel to assign the subjects to the vaccination groups. 
Blinding (masking) 
Infant study: The trial was designed as partially open label, and partially observer-blind. 
Open-label part of the study 
Both the study personnel and the subject’s parent/guardian knew which vaccine was being 
administered. 
The reason for the open label approach in some countries was to provide information about the specific 
impact of rMenB+OMV NZ on the safety (albeit randomized, open-label) and immunogenicity profile of 
Infanrix Hexa and Prevenar and separate this impact from the confounding contribution of Menjugate 
in the randomized, observer blind component of the study. In conclusion the blinded part of the trial 
minimizes bias in the assessment of safety, whereas the open label part of the trial adds to the safety 
information whilst ensuring an unbiased assessment of immunogenicity. 
Observer-blind part of the study 
During the study, designated nurse(s) or physician(s) were responsible for administering the study 
vaccines to the subjects, and were instructed not to reveal the identity of the study vaccines neither to 
the subject’s parent/guardian nor to the investigative site personnel (investigator, study nurse) 
involved in the monitoring or conduct of the trial, except in an emergency. This (these) designated 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 50/102 
 
 
 
 
individual(s) had no contact with the subjects after the administration of the study vaccine. If the 
study vaccine code was supplied to the investigator in the event of an emergency, the Novartis 
Regional Clinical Research Associate (CRA) or delegate was to be notified immediately by the 
investigator. The date and time, along with the reason for the unblinding, was to be noted. Study 
vaccine codes were not to be freely available to the investigator or personnel monitoring the trial until 
after the completion of the trial and the final data review. 
Booster/catch-up study 
The study was conducted as an open-label trial. As such, the investigator and his/her study personnel 
as well as the subject’s family knew which vaccine was being administered. 
The investigator or his delegate administered the vaccine as indicated on the randomization list. 
Adherence to the randomization was verified by the Novartis Regional Clinical Research Associate 
(CRA) or delegate by checking the vaccination records maintained in the investigator’s study file. 
Note: Subjects randomized to the blinded part of the parent V72P13 study were to remain blinded in 
the extension study as to whether they received 3 doses of rMenB+OMV NZ or of Menjugate in the first 
year of life (i.e. remain blinded for their treatment assignment in V72P13), until the database for 
V72P13 was unblinded. 
Adolescent study:  
Because the presentation of the two study vaccines were different, the trial was designed as an 
observer-blind study. During the study, designated nurse(s) or physician(s) were responsible for 
administering the study vaccines to the subjects. The subjects and the investigative site personnel 
(investigator, study nurse) involved in the monitoring or conduct of the trial, were unaware of the 
vaccine identity, except in an emergency. 
Statistical methods 
For all three studies the main population was the Per Protocol population (PP). Immunogenicity 
analyses were possibly to be performed on both PP and modified ITT (MITT) population. For the Infant 
and Toddler studies percentages of subjects with hSBA titres ≥1:5 and associated 95% Clopper 
Pearson CIs were computed for each strain. In the Infant study antibody response was sufficient if for 
each of the strains the lower limit of the 95% CI for the % ≥1:5 for the three lots combined (groups 
I+II+III) was ≥70%. In the Toddler study the antibody response was sufficient if for each strain the 
lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the percentage of subjects with SBA titer ≥1:5 one month after 
the fourth dose was ≥75%. 
In the Adolescent study the percentage of subjects with hSBA titer ≥1:4 and ≥1:8, the point estimates 
along with the associated 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals (CIs) were to be tabulated. The 
purpose of stratification by age group (into 11 to 13 and 14 to 17 years) for the randomization was to 
ensure a thoroughly representative sample of subjects aged 11 to 17 years and no analysis was to be 
done stratified by age group. 
Consistency in the Infant study: For the three rMenB+OMV NZ lots, GMTs and 95% CIs were calculated 
by exponentiating (base 10) the least squares means and the lower and upper limits of the 95% CIs of 
the log transformed titers (base10) obtained from a two-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) with 
factors for vaccine lot and study center. Additionally, rMenB+OMV NZ lot-to-lot GMT ratios were 
computed for each pair of rMenB+OMV NZ lots. Ninety five percent CIs for the ratios of GMTs were 
constructed by exponentiating the difference of the least square means of the log-transformed titers 
and the lower and upper limits of the 95% CIs on the difference obtained from the ANOVA model 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 51/102 
 
 
 
 
above. The three rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine lots were considered equivalent if for each of the 3 strains 
and each pair of vaccine lots, the two-sided 95% CI on the ratio of GMTs at 1 month after the third 
vaccination was contained within the interval [0.50, 2.00]. 
The ANOVA was the primary statistical methodology. As a sensitivity analysis to incorporate possible 
baseline imbalance among the lots, an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was also run, incorporating 
log10 pre-vaccination titers as a covariate along with vaccine lot and center as factors in the model. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 1 Infant study: Subjects analysed flowchart 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 52/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Booster/catch-up study 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 53/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 - Adolescent study: Subject completion flow chart 
Baseline data 
Infant study  
The demographic and other baseline characteristics were balanced across the different vaccination 
groups (Table 6). The majority of the immunogenicity subjects were Caucasian (99% to 100%). 
Gender distributions were similar across the vaccination groups. Age, height and weight were similar 
across the vaccination groups. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 54/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 Demography and Baseline Characteristics – Immunogenicity Per Protocol Population 
Booster/catch-up study:  
The demographic and other baseline characteristics were balanced across the different vaccination 
groups. Age, sex ratios, height and weight were similar across the vaccination groups. 
Table 7 Demography and Other Baseline Characteristics – Enrolled Population 
Adolescent study:  
The demographic and baseline characteristics were similar in all the vaccination groups. The 
demographic features of the per protocol population were similar to that of the enrolled population. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 55/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 Demographic and Other Baseline Characteristics in Subjects Aged 11 to 17 Years - Enrolled 
Population 
a Percentage of subjects was rounded off- even if all subjects did not meet the protocol entry criteria, the percentage is 100% 
Summary of Main immunogenicity Results 
Infant study 
Lot-to-Lot Consistency 
Lot-to-lot consistency of the immune response to the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine given concomitantly with 
routine infant vaccines is demonstrated in Table 9. Immunogenicity of the 3 lots of rMenB+OMV NZ 
would be considered equivalent if, for each of the 3 strains and each pair of vaccine lots, the two-sided 
95% CI on the ratio of GMTs at 1 month after the third vaccination was contained within the interval 
[0.50, 2.00]. These criteria were met for all strains. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 56/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 Geometric Mean hSBA Titers and Ratios of Titers (95% CI), and Lot-to-Lot Ratios of Titers, by 
Meningococcal Strain  
The second co-primary objective of the study was to assess immunogenicity of the rMenB+OMV NZ 
vaccine given concomitantly with routine infant vaccinations, by evaluating the percentages of subjects 
achieving hSBA titers of 1:5 or above at one month after the third vaccination. This analysis was 
performed on the pooled subjects receiving the 3 lots of rMenB+OMV NZ once lot-to-lot consistency 
had been demonstrated. To meet the second co-primary objective, the lower limit of the 2-sided 95% 
confidence interval should be ≥ 70% for strains H44/76, 5/99 and 98/254. This criterion was met for 
all 3 strains. Percentages of subjects achieving hSBA titers ≥1:5 at one month after the third rMenB 
vaccination are given in Table 10.  
Percentages of subjects achieving hSBA titers ≥1:8 at one month after the third rMenB vaccination 
ranged from 72% against strain NZ98/254 to 100% against the other two strains. A similar pattern is 
seen for the percentages of subjects achieving at least fourfold increase in titer one month after the 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 57/102 
 
 
 
 
 
third vaccination, ranging from 71% against strain NZ98/254 to 99% against strain H44/76 and 100% 
against strain 5/99.  
Table 10 Percentage (95% CI) of Subjects with hSBA Titers ≥1:5 
Another secondary objective was to characterize the immune response against vaccine antigen 287-
953, as measured by ELISA, at 1 month after the third vaccination. At this time point, ELISA GMCs in 
subjects receiving rMenB+OMV NZ increased 156-fold compared to baseline values (Table 11). In 
contrast, in subjects receiving routine vaccines, post-third dose GMC changed very little from baseline. 
Table 11 ELISA Geometric Mean Concentrations (GMCs) against the 287-953 Antigen 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 58/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity of routine infant vaccines when given concomitantly with the rMenB+OMV 
vaccine 
For each of the below vaccine components non-inferiority was demonstrated if the lower limit of the 
two sided 95% confidence interval for the difference in the percentage of subjects with antibody 
response greater than the pre-specified cut-off for each antigen was greater than -10%.  
Diphtheria: Non-inferiority was demonstrated. 100% of the subjects in all groups had antibody levels 
≥0.1 IU/mL against diphtheria toxoid. 80% and 86% of the subjects in the rMenB+OMV and routine 
groups respectively had antibody levels ≥1.0 IU/mL against diphtheria toxoid. 
Tetanus: Non-inferiority was demonstrated. 100% of the subjects in all groups had antibody levels 
≥0.1 IU/mL against tetanus toxoid. 91% and 95% of the subjects in the rMenB+OMV and routine 
groups respectively had antibody levels ≥1.0 IU/mL against tetanus toxoid. 
Pertussis: Non-inferiority was demonstrated for seroconversion against FHA, pertactin and PT. In terms 
of the percentage of subjects achieving a fourfold increase in antibody response, which was an 
additional secondary analysis, non-inferiority was demonstrated for the pertussis FHA and PT antigens. 
The lower limit of the interval for the pertactin component was -16% and so non-inferiority could not 
be shown based on this analysis.  
Polio: Non-inferiority was demonstrated for polio types 1 and 3. The lower limit of the interval for the 
polio type 2 component, however, was -11% and so non-inferiority was not demonstrated.  
Hepatitis B:  Non-inferiority was demonstrated. ELISA antibody concentrations ≥10.0 mIU/mL was 
achieved in 98% of rMenB+OMV+ routine group and in 100% of the routine vaccinated only group.  
PRP-Hib: Non-inferiority was demonstrated using the protective cut-off of ≥0.15 μg/mL. In addition, 
the percentage of subjects with ELISA antibody titres ≥1.0 μg/mL was also calculated, and the lower 
limit of the 95% CI was >-10 also using this cut-off.  
Pneumococcal: Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the 7 components of Prevenar.  
Booster/catch-up study 
The primary objective was the demonstration of a sufficient immune response following a fourth 
(booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ administered at 12 months of age, either with (12B12M (1a)) or 
without (12B13M (1b)) concomitant MMRV vaccination, to toddlers previously primed with three doses 
of rMenB+OMV NZ as infants in Study V72P13. Overall, the immune response in terms of distribution 
of SBA titers achieved by subjects was very similar between the 12B12M (1a) and 12B13M (1b) groups 
for each of the reference strains (Table 12).  
Table 12 Number (%) of Subjects with SBA Titers ≥1:5 at 1 Month After Booster Vaccination - PP 
Population 
The SBA GMTs at 1 month after the booster vaccination are summarised in Table 13. For all three 
strains the increase in SBA titers was similar in subjects with or without concomitant MMRV vaccination.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 59/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 SBA Titers of Subjects at 1 Month After Booster Vaccination – PP Population 
Immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953 
The immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by ELISA, one month after the 
fourth (booster) dose given at 12 months of age (groups 12B12M (1a), 12B13M (1b) and Men246 
(combined groups 1a and 1b)), or one month after the first dose and one month after the second dose 
of a two-dose catch-up regimens (12M13B15B and 12M12B14B) at 12 months of age are summarised 
below. 
Table 14 Immune response against vaccine antigen 287-953, as measured by 
ELISA GMC, one month after the fourth (booster) dose given at 12 months of age - PP Population 
Persistence of antibodies 
The persistence of antibodies up to 6 months after primary vaccination is summarised in Table 15. 
Subjects in 12B12M (1a) and 12B13M (1b) received rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination concomitantly with 
routine infant vaccines at 2, 4 and 6 months of age in the parent study V72P13. Group Men246 
represents subjects from groups 12B12M (1a) and 12B13M (1b) combined. As a control for SBA 
persistence, these subjects were compared to subjects in Group Routine246 who only received the 
routine infant vaccines at 2, 4 and 6 months of age in V72P13. Group Routine246 was comprised of 
subjects from groups 12M13B15B and 12M12B14B in this study combined. 
Just before the booster vaccination (at 12 months of age), the SBA titers decreased for all three strains. 
The decrease in SBA titers was similar across the vaccination groups.  
At 12 months of age, the SBA titers were still higher than the respective titers at baseline in V72P13 
study and were also higher than the 12-month titers in Routine 246 group who did not receive the 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination in V72P13 study for strains HH44/76 and 5/99. For strain NZ98/254 at12 
months the SBA titers had decreased to almost the level of respective titers at baseline in V72P13 
study, but were still higher than the 12-month titers in Routine 246 group.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 60/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 Evaluation of Antibody Persistence as Measured by SBA GMTs in 12-Month-Old Previously 
Primed Toddlers - PP Population 
Induction of immunological memory 
The fourth secondary objective was demonstration of the induction of immunological memory in 12 
month old children who previously received three doses of rMenB+OMV NZ, by comparing the SBA 
GMT response after the fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age (12B12M (1a)) to the 
response in naïve 12-month old children receiving a single dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of 
age (12M12B14B). Immunological memory and a booster response was demonstrated if the lower limit 
of the two-sided 95% CI for the ratio of the SBA GMTs following a fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 
months of age compared to the SBA GMTs following a single dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of 
age was ≥ 2.0. 
For all three strains the immune responses to a single booster dose at 12 months of age were higher 
than the responses to a first dose in 12 month old naïve children (Table 16). Thus, the criteria for 
demonstrating the presence of immunological memory were met for all three strains. 
Table 16 SBA GMTs in Children Administered the Fourth Dose of rMenB+OMV NZ Vs SBA GMTs in 
Children Receiving a Single Dose of rMenB+OMV NZ At 12 Months of Age (Induction of Immunological 
Memory) – PP Population 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 61/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity of a two-dose catch-up schedule 
The results of a two-dose catch-up schedule of rMenB+OMV NZ given at 13 and 15 months of age 
(12M13B15B) or 12 and 14 months of age (12M12B14B) to naïve children, as measured by SBA GMTs 
after the second dose are summarised in Table 17. The increase in SBA titers was similar in both 13 
and 15 months (12M13B15B) or 12 and 14 months (12M12B14B) dose catch-up schedules for all three 
strains.  
All subjects in both groups had SBA titers ≥1:5 one month after the second catch-up dose against all 
three strains, except for strain NZ98/254 in the 12+14-month group (96% responded).  
Table 17 SBA Titers One Month after a Two-Dose (Given at 13 and 15 Months or 12 and 14 Months) 
Catch-Up Schedule of rMenB+OMV NZ in Unprimed Children - PP Population 
SBA to strain M10713 after the fourth (booster) dose 
At the time study V72P13E1 was initiated, a suitable MenB reference strain to measure bactericidal 
activity directed against the 287 antigen itself was not available. As such, ELISA was used as an 
alternative to evaluate the immunogenicity of the 287-953 fusion antigen following vaccination with 
rMenB+OMV NZ. Since the completion of this study, an acceptable reference strain for measuring SBA 
to the 287 antigen was identified (strain M10713). As a result, a subset of 100 subjects from groups 
12B12M (1a) and 12B13M (1b) was selected and evaluated for SBA responses against strain M10713 
one month after the fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ administered at 12 months of age. 
Pre-booster dose at 12 months, the percentage of subjects with SBA titers ≥ 1:5 against strain 
M10713 was 61% for the subjects in groups 12B12M (1a) and 12B13M (1b) combined (group 
Men246). One month after the fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ, the percentage of subjects 
achieving the bactericidal titer ≥5 increased to 98%, while 96% of the subjects achieved the 1:8 titer 
or greater. GMTs against M10713 increased from a pre-booster GMT of 7.99 to a post-booster GMT of 
42 (GMR 5.28), demonstrating a robust bactericidal booster response to strain M10713. 
Immune Response to MMRV Vaccination 
The first secondary objective was to demonstrate that the immune responses to MMRV vaccination, 
when administered concomitantly with the fourth (booster) dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of 
age (12B12M (1a)), were not inferior to the immune responses to MMRV when given alone 
(12M13B15B). 
The immunogenicity in group 12B12M (1a) was considered non-inferior to that in group 12M13B15B, if 
for any of the antigens, the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI for the difference in the percentage of 
subjects with antibody response greater than or equal to the specified cut-off level for that antigen was 
greater than -10%. This analysis was performed for the subjects with negative baseline 
concentrations.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 62/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The non-inferiority criterion was achieved for the vaccine antigens Measles, Mumps and Rubella at the 
specified cut-off levels of ≥255 mIU/mL, ≥10 U/mL and ≥10 IU/mL, respectively. For Varicella, the 
non-inferiority was demonstrated for the cut-off level of ≥1.25 gp ELISA units/mL (seroconversion) but 
could not be demonstrated for the higher cut-off level of ≥5 gp ELISA units/mL (seroprotection). The 
immune response was measured after the first dose of the licensed 2 dose series for the MMRV vaccine 
used in the study (Priorix-Tetra). 
Adolescent study: 
Study V72P10 was conducted in Chile, and the relevance to a European population has been discussed. 
The levels of pre-existing antibodies to fHbp, NadA and PorA were similar among the Chilean 
adolescents and European adults. No data on expression of vaccine antigens on circulating MenB 
strains in Chile are available. As no data on adolescents are available from Europe, it is not possible to 
compare the same age groups from different regions. The applicant will provide data on EU 
adolescents.  
Primary and booster dose schedule adolescents and adults  
The dosing schedule was studied in adolescents (11-17 years) in V72P10. Immune responses after 1, 2 
and 3 doses given 1 or 2 months apart were studied. In addition, an extension of this study was 
presented during the assessment period, of a single booster dose given 6 months after the first 
primary vaccination. This is the only study in this age group and it was conducted in Chile.  
The dosing schedule in adults was studied in V72P5 (three doses given a 0, 1, 2 months) immune 
responses measured after 2nd and 3rd dose) and in study V72P4 (three doses given at 0, 2, 6 months) 
included adults 18-50 years.  
The primary immunogenicity results from studies V72P4, V72P5 and V72P10 are summarized in Table 
18. Overall, the response rates are high to all strains.  
Preliminary SBA data for NHBA using strain M10713 were submitted during the assessment period for 
study V72P10. The baseline titres were high and most subjects had SBA titres ≥1:5 before vaccination 
(Table 19). The titres increased somewhat after vaccination, but the clinical relevance of the increase 
is unclear. The Company suggested that the reason for the high baseline titres could be antibodies 
directed to cross-reacting antigens from other N. meningitidis strains or other Neisseria species, e.g. N. 
lactamica. The impact of vaccination with rMenB+OMV on the normal flora, especially N. lactamica 
should be further discussed. The possibility that the NHBA antigen elicits antibodies that cross-react 
with N. lactamica and possibly decreases carriage should be discussed. N. lactamica has been reported 
to inversely correlate to carriage of N. meningitidis, and may even protect against meningococcal 
disease.  
In addition to the results shown in Table 18, percentages of responders using SBA titres ≥1:8, and 
percentages of subjects with 4-fold or greater titre increase were calculated in studies V72P5 
andV72P10. The response rate in V72P10 was still high using SBA titres ≥1:8, ≥99% against all three 
strains after two doses. 
A single dose resulted in overall lower response rates compared with the 2- and 3-dose regimens, 
supporting at least a 2-dose priming in this age group.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 63/102 
 
 
 
 
Data from a single booster dose given at month 6 in study V72P10 were presented during the 
assessment period. Data covering month 7 following the first dose were presented as well as responses 
to a single booster dose given at 6 months after the first dose (Table 20). These data indicate that the 
majority of subjects (at least 85%) have remaining bactericidal antibodies at study month 7 (i.e. 5-6 
months after the last of the recommended 2 doses) to fHbp, NadA and PorA. Thus, there does not 
seem to be a need to vaccinate as soon as 6 months following the two primary doses. The GMTs 
following the booster dose were numerically higher than the GMTs following the two primary doses. 
The Applicant is planning further follow-up of study V72P10, extension study V72P10E1, which will 
cover an interval of 18 months to 22 months following the primary vaccination. The results of this 
study should be submitted when available. It would also be highly desirable to have a similar follow-up 
in a European adolescent population, to ensure that the provided data are relevant for the intended 
target population.  
The results in adults are considered promising but very few subjects were included in the studies.  
In conclusion, two doses have been shown to induce adequate immune responses to three of the 
vaccine antigens, fHbp, NadA and PorA. The response to NHBA demonstrated to be robust, although a 
large proportion of subjects had antibodies before vaccination. The antibody persistence beyond 6 
months in adolescents is currently unknown, as well as the duration of immunogical memory.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 64/102 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 Immune Responses to rMenB+OMV NZ After a Two-dose Schedule in Adolescents and Adults 
(11 Years and Above) (PP Population) 
Age 
18-40 yrs 
11-17 yrs 
18-50 yrs 
11-17 yrs 
e
c
n
e
r
e
f
e
R
n
i
a
r
t
S
6
7
/
4
4
H
9
9
/
5
4
5
2
/
8
9
Z
N
0,1 Schedule 
V72P5 
(N=28) 
0,1 Schedule 
V72P10 
(N=639) 
0,2 Schedule 
V72P4 
(N=46) 
0,2 Schedule 
V72P10 
(N=320) 
% 
hSBA≥1:4/1:5d 
(95% CI) 
28 (100%) 
(88; 100) 
637 (100%) 
(99; 100) 
N=638 
46 (100%) 
(92; 100) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
100 
(75; 133) 
hSBA GMR e 
(95% CI) 
43 
(25; 72) 
210 
(193; 229) 
N=638 
54 
(48; 61) 
N=637 
93 
(71: 121) 
38 
(27; 53) 
319 (100%) 
(99: 100) 
N=319 
234 
(209; 263) 
N=319 
57 
(48; 68) 
N=319 
% 
hSBA≥1:4/1:5d 
(95% CI) 
28 (100%) 
(88; 100) 
638 (100%) 
(99; 100) 
46 (100%) 
(92; 100) 
318 (99%) 
(98; 100) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
566 
(338; 948) 
490 
(455; 528) 
144 
(108; 193) 
734 
(653; 825) 
hSBA GMRe 
(95% CI) 
139 
(70; 277) 
186 
(166; 208) 
N=638 
63 
(44; 92) 
% 
hSBA≥1:4/1:5d 
(95% CI) 
27 (96%) 
(82; 100) 
637 (100%) 
(99; 100) 
42 (91%) 
(79; 98) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
47 
(30; 75) 
92 
(84; 102) 
32 
(21; 48) 
hSBA GMRe 
(95% CI) 
27 
(16; 48) 
31 
(28; 34) 
N=637 
17 
(12; 26) 
A
B
H
N
i
t
n
A
)
3
5
9
-
7
8
2
(
ELISA GMC 
(95% CI) 
ELISA GMRe 
(95% CI) 
ND 
ND 
3418 
(2556; 4570) 
N=69 
87 
(64; 120) 
N=66 
ND 
ND 
280 
(236; 332) 
N=320 
319 (100%) 
(99; 100) 
N=319 
123 
(107; 142) 
N=319 
39 
(33; 47) 
N=319 
3128 
(2386; 4100) 
N=70 
83 
(59; 115) 
N=70 
 dcut-off used for hSBA titers was 1:4 in studies V72P4, V72P5, V72P9 and V72P10 and 1:5 in study 
V72P13E1; eGMT or GMC at one month after 2nd vaccination over baseline titers. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 65/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19 Percentages (95% CI) of Subjects with hSBA ≥ 1:4 Against Strain M10713 After a Two-Dose 
Schedule of rMenB+OMV NZ in Adolescents Aged 11 to 17 Years – Study V72P10 
Month 0(Baseline) 
1 Month After 2nd Dose 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Month 0, 1 Schedule 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Month 0, 2 Schedule 
% hSBA≥1:4 
(95% CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
% hSBA≥1:4 
(95% CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
N=46 
96% 
(85-99) 
32 
(21-50) 
100% 
(92-100) 
99 
(76-129) 
N=46 
80% 
(66-91) 
30 
(20-47) 
100% 
(92-100) 
107 
(82-140) 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 66/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20: Percentages (95% CI) of Subjects with hSBA≥ 1:4 After Primary and Booster Vaccinations, 
by Strain – PP Population V72P10 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 67/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive studies 
Study V72P4 
A Phase 2, Multi-Center, Open-label Study of the Safety, Tolerability and Immunogenicity of Novartis 
Meningococcal B Recombinant Vaccine When Administered at a 0, 2, 6-Month Schedule and of a Single 
dose of Novartis Meningococcal ACWY Conjugate Vaccine in Healthy At-risk Adults 18-50 Years of Age 
Methodology 
This was a Phase 2, open-label, multi-center study in healthy at-risk adults routinely exposed to N. 
meningitidis. Novartis rMenB + OMV (0.5 mL each dose) was to be administered intramuscularly (IM) 
according to a 0, 2, 6-month immunization schedule. A single dose (0.5 mL) of Novartis MenACWY 
conjugate vaccine was to be administered at study month 7. Blood samples were obtained for 
meningococcal serology from all subjects at baseline, one month post-first rMenB + OMV vaccination, 
one month post-second rMenB + OMV vaccination, pre-and one month post-third rMenB + OMV 
vaccination and one month post-MenACWY vaccination.  
Objectives: 
Immunogenicity 
To explore the immunogenicity of three doses of Novartis rMenB + OMV in healthy at-risk adults, by 
evaluation of the breadth of serum bactericidal activity using human complement (SBA) response 
against a panel of genetically distinct meningococcal strains, at one month after the administration of 
the first, the second and the third dose and immediately before the administration of the third dose. 
Immunogenicity results 
Of the total of 54 subjects enrolled, 53 were vaccinated and 48 subjects completed the study. The 
immunogenicity analysis for rMenB + OMV was performed on the per protocol (PP) population which 
included 46 (85%) subjects. 
Immunogenicity of three of the major vaccine antigens in the rMenB+OMV vaccine, as measured by 
SBA, was determined using a panel of three meningococcal serogroup B reference strains. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 68/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21 Percentages (95%CI) of Subjects with Bactericidal Titers ≥1:4, by N. meningitidis Serogroup 
B Strain 
Four studies were conducted using an early formulation consisting of the OMV component based on the 
Norwegian strain H44/76 plus the recombinant proteins present in Bexsero. The early studies were all 
conducted in the US. The results of these studies are generally confirmed in later studies with the final 
formulation. 
Additional analysis submitted  
Primary dose schedule infants:  
Different dosing schedules in infants were used in studies V72P12 and V72P16 (three doses 1-2 
months apart) and V72P6 (three doses two months apart, immune responses measured after 2nd and 
3rd doses). In the phase III study V72P13 the 2, 4, 6 months schedule was used.  
The SBA responses to fHbp, NadA and PorA and ELISA responses to NHBA after three priming doses 
given at 2, 4, 6 or 2, 3, 4 months of age in studies V72P6, V72P12,V72P13 and V72P16 are 
summarized in Table 22. The results from study V72P6 were generally lower than the results from the 
larger studies V72P12 and V72P13.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 69/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22 Immune Responses to rMenB+OMV NZ After a Three-dose Primary Schedule in Infants from 
2 Months of Age with and without Concomitant Routine Infant Vaccines (PP population) 
V72P13 
V72P12 
V72P6 
V72P16 
Reference 
Strain 
2,4,6 with 
concomitant 
routine 
vaccinations 
2,4,6 with 
concomitant 
routine 
vaccinations 
2,4,6 with 
3,5,7 
routine 
vaccinations 
2,3,4 with 
concomitant 
routine 
vaccinations 
2,4,6 with 
concomitant 
routine 
vaccinations 
2, 3, 4 with 
concomitant 
routine 
vaccinations 
H44/76  
% 
hSBA≥1:5 
(95% CI) 
1146 (100%) 
(99-100) 
N=1149 
523 (100%) 
(99-100) 
N=525 
532 (100%) 
(99-100) 
N=534 
271 (99%) 
(97-100) 
N=273 
hSBA 
GMT 
(95%CI) 
hSBA 
GMR a 
(95% CI) 
91  
(87-95) 
N=1149 
79 
(75-84) 
N=1098 
86 
(80-92) 
N=525 
58 
 (52-64) 
N=501 
5/99  
% 
hSBA≥1:5 
(95% CI) 
1149 (100%) 
(99-100) 
N=1152 
526 (100%) 
(99-100) 
N=527 
NZ98/254  
hSBA 
GMT 
(95%CI) 
hSBA 
GMR a 
(95% CI) 
% 
hSBA≥1:5 
(95% CI) 
hSBA 
GMT 
(95%CI) 
hSBA 
GMR a 
(95% CI) 
635 
 (606-665) 
N=1152 
537 
(505-572) 
N=1098 
965 (84%) 
(82-86) 
N=1152 
14  
(13-15) 
N=1152 
14  
(13-15) 
N=1102 
537 
(494-584) 
N=527 
430 
 (379-487) 
N=497 
421 (79%) 
(76-83) 
N=530 
12 
(11-14) 
N=530 
11 
 (9.28-12) 
N=504 
Anti 
NHBA 
(287-953)  
ELISA 
GMC 
(95%CI) 
3370 
(3270-3472) 
N=1823 
3327 
(3115-3553) 
N=545 
113 
(105-121) 
N=534 
83 
 (74-92) 
N=507 
526 (99%) 
(98-100) 
N=529 
699 
 (643-759) 
N=529 
553 
 (489-625) 
N=494 
467 (87%) 
(84-90) 
N=534 
18 
 (16-20) 
N=534 
16 
 (14-19) 
N=503 
4244 
 (3978-
4527) 
N=557 
156 
190 
(150-162) 
(173-208) 
N=1754 
N=539 
 aGMT or GMC at one month after 3rd vaccination over baseline titers 
149 
(136-164) 
N=531 
ELISA 
GMR a 
(95%CI) 
82 
(75-91) 
N=273 
61 
 (53-70) 
N=262 
275 (100%) 
(99-100) 
N=275 
325 
(292-362) 
N=275 
271 
 (231-318) 
N=257 
223 (81%) 
(76-86) 
N=274 
11 
(9.14-12) 
N=274 
10 
 (8.52-12) 
N=258 
3254 
(2988-3545) 
N=281 
145 
(128-164) 
N=275 
34 (87%) 
(73; 96) 
N=39 
30  
(19; 46) 
N=39 
21 
(13; 34) 
N=39 
35 (95%) 
(82; 99) 
N=37 
126 
(77; 205) 
N=37 
19 
(13; 34) 
N=39 
34 (85%) 
(70; 94) 
N=40 
19 
(11; 33) 
N=40 
16 
(9.4; 28) 
N=40 
169 (100%) 
(98; 100) 
N=169 
100 
(90; 112) 
N=169 
80 
(69; 93) 
N=156 
163 (99%) 
(97; 100) 
N=164 
393 
(344; 448) 
N=164 
345 
(291; 407) 
N=151 
133 (78%) 
(71;84) 
N=170 
9.91 
(8.48; 12) 
N=170 
9.45 
(8.02; 11) 
N=161 
Not done. 
Not done. 
Not done. 
Not done. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 70/102 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the results shown in Table 22, the percentage of responders using SBA titres ≥8, and 
percentage of subjects with 4-fold or greater titre increase were calculated in studies V72P6 and 
V72P13 for fHbp, NadA and PorA. The response rate in the phase III study V72P13 was still high using 
SBA titres ≥1:8, 72% against NZ98/254 and 100% against the other two strains.  
Immune responses to five additional strains were also presented in V72P6. The additional strains were 
selected because 1) they are strains which vary in their vaccine antigen composition and/or expression 
and 2) are representative of the major disease causing types currently in the UK. In addition, 
serogroup B strain LNP 20404, a clinical isolate from a recent outbreak in Normandy, France was also 
used. Of the five additional strains baseline titres against one strain, GB101, where quite high, and did 
not increase substantially after two or three doses. No responses were observed against strain GB355, 
as expected as this strain does not express any of the vaccine antigens. The responses against GB364 
were modest, while the responses against UKP1.7-2,4 and LNP20404 were more robust after 
vaccination with the OMV-containing vaccine.  
In study V72P6 SBA responses to fHbp, NadA and PorA were measured after the second and third 
vaccine dose. The third dose did not increase the response rate compared to the second dose for 
strains 5/99 and H44/76. For strain NZ 98/254 the response rate increased from 74% to 85%, with 
overlapping 95% CI. The SBA measures both IgG and IgM antibodies, and one explanation for the 
similar responses after two and three doses could be that the first doses induce a predominant IgM 
response, which declines and is later replace with IgG responses. However, no ELISA data are available 
for this population. Further data on two priming doses in infants are not available. 
The SBA GMTs to the 2, 3, 4 month schedule were slightly lower than following the 2, 4, 6 months 
schedule for strains 5/99 in study V72P12. However, the percentage of subjects with SBA titres ≥1:5 
were very similar between the two groups. Data from the extension study V72P12E1 were summarised 
in the response to the Day 120 LoQ. Immunogenicity data for antibody persistence and the booster 
dose at 12 months of age were presented. At 12 months of age, there was a trend for bactericidal 
antibody persistence to be slightly higher for the 2, 4, 6 compared to the 2, 3, 4-month schedule; 
some of this difference can be attributed to the longer time interval from the last vaccination for the 2, 
3, 4 schedule (8 months vs. 6 months for the 2, 4, 6 month schedule) and thus longer time period for 
antibodies to decay. The pre-booster titres were very low to strain NZ98/254 in both groups.  
The primary immune responses in infants to NHBA were measured in study V72P13, using strain 
M10713 in a subset of 100 subjects as shown in Table 23. These results indicate a good primary 
response rate to the NHBA antigen, although the baseline titres were comparatively high. In addition, 
hSBA data using strain M10713 were presented in response to the Day 120 LoQ from study V72P16. 
The responses were modest to the NHBA antigen, which caused some concern. The low hSBA response 
to NHBA after 3 primary doses according to the 2, 3, 4 month schedule was also seen in V72P12 (E1). 
Even though the level of bactericidal antibodies against NHBA is very low after 3 doses according to the 
2, 3, 4, month scheme, the good response after a booster dose at 12 month of age demonstrates that 
priming has been achieved during the three primary doses.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 71/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23 Number (Percentage)(95% CI) of Subjects with hSBA Titers≥ 1:5 Against Reference Strain 
M10713, Studies V72P13 and V72P13E1 in Infants and Toddlers, MITT populations.  
Vaccinations given  
at Age in Months  
(Month 0)  
Baseline  
1-mth Post- 
3rd Vacc  
6-mths Post- 
3rd Vacc  
1 mth Post- 
Booster  
(Pre-Booster)  
rMenB+OMV NZ  
33 (33%)  
84 (84%)  
61 (61%)  
98 (98%)  
+Infanrix Hexa, Prevenar  
at 2,4,and 6; booster at 
12 
Priorix-Tetra (MMR) 
at 12 or 13  
(24-43)  
(75-91)  
(51-71)  
(93-100)  
N=100  
N=100  
N=100  
N=100  
In summary three doses to infants according to 2, 4, 6 or 2, 3, 4 month schedule is considered 
adequately supported by the data. The exception is the bactericidal responses to NHBA antigen in the 2, 
3, 4 month schedule where a low percentage of subjects are considered protected until the booster 
dose is administered at 12-23 months. 
Primary dose schedule in older infants and children:  
Dose schedule in older unvaccinated infants, 6-8 months of age was studied in V72P9, (2 doses were 
given 2 months apart with a third dose around 12 months of age). Unvaccinated children were 
vaccinated with 2 doses at 12+14 months of age in study V72P13E1.  
The results two vaccine doses given two months apart in studies V72P9 and V72P3E1 are summarized 
in Table 24.  
Table 24 Immune Responses to rMenB+OMV NZ After a Two-dose Schedule in Older Infants and 
in Toddlers (from 6 Months of Age) – (PP Population) 
Age 
12-15 months 
6-8 months 
e
c
n
e
r
e
f
e
R
n
i
a
r
t
S
6
7
/
4
4
H
9
9
/
5
12M13B15B 
V72P13E1b 
N=163 
12M12B14B 
V72P13E1 c 
N=67 
0,2 Schedule a 
V72P9 
(N=24) 
% hSBA≥1:4/1:5d 
(95% CI) 
163 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
67 (100%) 
 (95-100) 
23 (100%) 
(85-100) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
271 
 (237-310) 
248 
 (201-306) 
hSBA GMRe 
(95% CI) 
217 
 (185-255) 
N=159 
203 
 (158-261) 
N=66 
250 
(173-361) 
N=23 
144  
(101-204) 
N=23 
% hSBA≥1:4/1:5d 
(95% CI) 
164 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=164 
67 (100%) 
 (95-100) 
23 (100%) 
(85-100) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
599 
(520-690) 
627 
(502-783) 
534 
(395-721) 
N=23 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 72/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hSBA GMR e 
(95% CI) 
560 
(478-656) 
N=159 
620 
(485-793) 
N=66 
% hSBA≥1:4/1:5d 
(95% CI) 
164 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=164 
65 (96%) 
(88-99) 
N=68 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
43 
(38-49) 
hSBA GMR e 
(95% CI) 
43 
(37-49) 
N=161 
31 
(25-38) 
N=67 
31 
(25-38) 
N=67 
509 
(381-680) 
N=23 
21 (95%) 
(77-100) 
27 
(21-36) 
N=22 
27 
(21-36) 
N=22 
ELISA GMC 
(95% CI) 
5698 
(5030-6454) 
N=165 
7154 
(5880-8704) 
N=68 
2912 
(2178-3894) 
N=23 
ELISA GMR e 
(95% CI) 
279 
(245-317) 
N=162 
326 
(259-410) 
N=66 
139 
(102-191) 
N=23 
% hSBA≥1:5 
(95% CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
63%  
(48-77) 
N=29/46 
11 
(7.07-16) 
N=46 
74% 
(59-86) 
N=32/43 
15 
(9.7-23) 
N=43 
NA 
NA 
4
5
2
/
8
9
Z
N
-
7
8
2
(
A
B
H
N
i
t
n
A
-
7
8
2
(
A
B
H
N
i
t
n
A
)
3
5
9
)
3
5
9
asubjects who received rMenB+OMV NZ at 6 and 8 months of age; bsubjects who received routine vaccinations only 
in study V72P13 at 2,4,6 months and were administered MMRV at 12 months and rMenB+OMV NZ at 13 and 15 
months in the extension V72P13E1; csubjects who received routine vaccinations only in study V72P13 at 2,4,6 
months and were administered rMenB+OMV NZ concomitantly with MMRV at 12 months and  rMenB+OMV NZ alone 
at 14 months in the extension V72P13E1;  dcut-off used for hSBA titers was 1:4 in studies V72P4, V72P5, V72P9 
and V72P10 and 1:5 in study V72P13E1; eGMT or GMC at one month after 2nd vaccination over baseline titers. 
The results presented in Table 24 were supported by data on percentages of subjects achieving SBA 
titres ≥1:8 in study V72P9 (96%, 100%, and 91% respectively against fHbp, NadA and PorA). In 
addition immune responses to four additional strains were also presented in V72P9. The responses 
were high against 3 of the four strains, and no responses were expected against the fourth strain 
which did not express any vaccine antigen.  
The SBA responses to NHBA in study V72P13E1 were presented in response to the Day 120 LoQ. In 
this study 20% and 16% of the subjects in the receiving the rMenB+OMV vaccine at 13, 15 and 12, 14 
months schedule, had SBA titres ≥1:5. As shown in the amended Table 25 below, the response rates 1 
month after the second dose were 63% and 74% respectively. This response was lower than the 
response to a single booster dose in the same age group (98% response rate) and lower than the 
responses to the other three antigens.  
The responses reported in study V72P9 were generally lower than the response in study V72P13E1.  
Overall, the response rates and GMTs were considered acceptable and in line with the responses in 
other age groups except the responses to NHBA.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 73/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Booster vaccinations –infants and toddlers 
A single booster dose at 12 months of age after 3 priming infant vaccinations was studied in V72P6, 
V72P12E1 and V72P13E1. In study V72P9 a single booster dose was given at twelve months of age 
following 2 primary vaccinations at 6 and 8 months. Thus, data on booster vaccinations after 2 dose 
priming infants from 2 months of age has not been studied. 
The immune responses to a single booster dose given at 12 months of age in study V72P13E1 and 
V72P9 are summarized in Table 25. The results of study V72P6 are not shown in this overview, but 
were slightly lower than what is shown in study V72P13E1. See also results from primary vaccination in 
these studies in Table 22 above.  
Table 25 Immune Responses to a Booster Vaccinationa with rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 Months of Age – 
(PP Population).  
V72P13E1b 
In toddlers who had received rMenB+OMV NZ with routine 
vaccines at 2,4,6 months 
% hSBA ≥1:5 
(95%CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
hSBA GMR 
(95%CI) 
V72P9 
In toddlers who 
received rMenB+OMV 
NZ at 6,8 months 
% hSBA 
≥1:4 
(95%CI) 
MenB 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
MenB 
ND 
ND 
12B12M 
(1a) 
- 
12B13M 
(1b) 
- 
n
i
a
r
t
S
12B12M 
(1a) 
Baselinec  171 (81%) 
 (75-86) 
N=211 
210 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=210 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
Baselinec  206 (98%) 
 (95-99) 
N=210 
209 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=209 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
12B13M 
(1b) 
177 (82%) 
 (77-87) 
N=215 
212 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=212 
212 (100%) 
 (97-100) 
N=213 
212 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=212 
Baselinec  41 (19%) 
 (14-25) 
N=211 
204 (97%) 
 (93-99) 
N=211 
- 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
52 (24%) 
 (19-30) 
N=215 
200 (94%) 
 (90-97) 
N=213 
- 
Baselinec 
- 
- 
e
c
n
e
r
e
f
e
R
6
7
/
4
4
H
9
9
/
5
4
5
2
/
8
9
Z
N
-
7
8
2
(
A
B
H
N
12B12M 
(1a) 
11 
(9.27-12) 
N=211 
139 
 (123-156) 
N = 210 
81 
 (71-93) 
N=210 
1503 
 (1339-
1686) 
N = 209 
2.07 
 (1.8-2.38) 
N=211 
39 
 (33-46) 
N=211 
12B13M 
(1b) 
10 
 (9.11-12) 
N=215 
119 
 (105-133) 
N = 212 
81 
 (71-92) 
N=213 
1429 
 (1274-
1603) 
N = 212 
2.21 
 (1.92-2.55) 
N=215 
32 
 (27-37) 
N = 213 
ELISA GMC 
(95%CI) 
390 
 (351-433) 
N=212 
6225 
 (5571-
6956) 
N=213 
389 
 (349-434) 
N=216 
5608 
 (5111-
6154) 
N=214 
13 
(12-14) 
N=207 
- 
11 
(10-13) 
N=209 
- 
24 (100%) 
(86-100) 
N=24 
ND 
189 
(136-263) 
N=24 
ND 
18 
(16-21) 
N=205 
18 
(16-20) 
N=207 
24 (100%) 
(86-100)  
N=24 
906 
(700-1172) 
N=24 
- 
- 
ND 
ND 
19 
(16-22) 
N=208 
15 
(12-17) 
N=210 
ELISA GMR 
(95%CI) 
- 
- 
23 (96%) 
(79-100)  
N=24 
- 
- 
44 
(32-62)  
N=24 
ELISA GMC 
(95%CI) 
- 
)
3
5
9
- 
- 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
3521 
(2739-
i
4527) 
t
n
N=25 
A
a4th dose in study V72P13E1 and 3rd dose in study V/2P9; b12B12M(1a) = in the open-label (immunogenicity) subset of 
V72P13, these subjects had received rMenB+OMV NZ + routine vaccinations at 2, 4 and 6 months of age. In V72P13E1, 
these subjects received a rMenB+OMV NZ booster and MMRV at 12 months of age; 12B13M(1b) = in the open-label 
(immunogenicity) subset of V72P13, these subjects had received rMenB+OMV NZ + routine vaccinations at 2, 4 and 6 
months of age. In V72P13E1, these subjects received a rMenB+OMV NZ booster at 12 months of age and MMRV at 13 
months of age; cBaseline= blood sample taken just before the booster vaccination 
14 
(13-16) 
N=212 
16 
(14-18) 
N=211 
- 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 74/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study V72P12E1 a single booster dose was given to subjects receiving primary vaccinations at 2, 4, 
6 months or 2, 3, 4 months. The booster responses were robust and similar for the two schedules for 
fHbp, NadA and PorA, demonstrating that the 2, 3, 4-month accelerated schedule was able to prime 
the infants for a booster response as well as the 2, 4, 6-month schedule. The responses were also in 
agreement with the results from study V72P13E1. 
Although no direct comparison of responses to a booster dose given at 12 months between infants 
receiving 3 doses and older infants given 2 doses is available, the SBA GMTs in study V72P9 after the 
dose given at 12 months were higher than in study V72P6 (also performed in the UK) but slightly lower 
than the results of V72P13E1. The interval between dose 1 and 2 in V72P9 was on average 58 and 59 
days, and between dose 2 and 3 85 and 83 days in the two groups respectively, thus the three doses 
were actually given at age 7, 9 and 12 months. 
The responses to a single booster dose at 12 months of age were considerably higher than the 
responses to a single dose given to naïve subjects in study V72P13E1. The responses to the booster 
dose in V72P13E1 were also higher compared to the responses to the third priming dose given at 6 
months of age in V72P13 (tables 3 and 6) for fHbp, NadA and PorA.  
Booster responses to NHBA in toddlers were also demonstrated using SBA in V72P13E1.  
The baseline data indicate that the immune responses after the primary doses decline over the 6 
month interval, and particularly for the OMV component the decline is substantial (Table 26).  
Taken together, these results indicate that immunological memory is induced by the three priming 
doses given at 2, 4, 6 or 2, 3, 4 months of age and by 2 doses given from 6 months of age.  
The immune responses up to 12 months after the 4th dose were studied in V72P13E2. The responses to 
fHbp and NadA were still high, while the responses to NHBA and OMV had decreased to very low levels 
(Table 27), suggesting the need for a further booster dose from 12 months to 23 months after the 
primary series. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 75/102 
 
 
 
 
Table 26 Immune Responses to a Booster Vaccinationa with rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 Months of Age – 
(PP Population).  
e
c
n
e
r
e
f
e
R
6
7
/
4
4
H
9
9
/
5
4
5
2
/
8
9
Z
N
-
7
8
2
(
A
B
H
N
V72P13E1b 
In toddlers who had received rMenB+OMV NZ with routine 
vaccines at 2,4,6 months 
% hSBA ≥1:5 
(95%CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
hSBA GMR 
(95% CI) 
i
n
a
r
t
S
12B12M 
(1a) 
Baselinec  171 (81%) 
 (75-86) 
N=211 
12B13M 
(1b) 
177 (82%) 
 (77-87) 
N=215 
12B12M 
(1a) 
11 
(9.27-12) 
N=211 
12B13M 
(1b) 
10 
 (9.11-12) 
N=215 
12B12M 
(1a) 
- 
12B13M 
(1b) 
- 
V72P9 
In toddlers who 
received rMenB+OMV 
NZ at 6,8 months 
% hSBA 
≥1:4 
(95% CI) 
MenB 
hSBA GMT 
(95% CI) 
MenB 
ND 
ND 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
Baselinec  206 (98%) 
210 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=210 
 (95-99) 
N=210 
212 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=212 
212 (100%) 
 (97-100) 
N=213 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
209 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=209 
212 (100%) 
 (98-100) 
N=212 
Baselinec  41 (19%) 
 (14-25) 
N=211 
52 (24%) 
 (19-30) 
N=215 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
204 (97%) 
 (93-99) 
N=211 
- 
200 (94%) 
 (90-97) 
N=213 
- 
Baselinec 
- 
- 
139 
 (123-156) 
N = 210 
81 
 (71-93) 
N=210 
119 
 (105-133) 
N = 212 
81 
 (71-92) 
N=213 
1503 
 (1339-
1686) 
N = 209 
2.07 
 (1.8-2.38) 
N=211 
39 
 (33-46) 
N=211 
1429 
 (1274-
1603) 
N = 212 
2.21 
 (1.92-
2.55) 
N=215 
32 
 (27-37) 
N = 213 
ELISA GMC 
(95% CI) 
390 
 (351-433) 
N=212 
389 
 (349-434) 
N=216 
13 
(12-14) 
N=207 
- 
11 
(10-13) 
N=209 
- 
24 (100%) 
(86-100) 
N=24 
ND 
189 
(136-263) 
N=24 
ND 
18 
(16-21) 
N=205 
18 
(16-20) 
N=207 
24 (100%) 
(86-100)  
N=24 
906 
(700-1172) 
N=24 
- 
- 
ND 
ND 
19 
(16-22) 
N=208 
15 
(12-17) 
N=210 
ELISA GMR 
(95% CI) 
23 (96%) 
(79-100)  
N=24 
- 
- 
- 
- 
44 
(32-62)  
N=24 
ELISA 
GMC 
(95% CI) 
- 
)
3
5
9
- 
- 
1 Month 
After 
Booster 
3521 
(2739-
i
4527) 
t
n
A
N=25 
a4th dose in study V72P13E1 and 3rd dose in study V/2P9; b12B12M(1a) = in the open-label (immunogenicity) subset of 
V72P13, these subjects had received rMenB+OMV NZ + routine vaccinations at 2, 4 and 6 months of age. In V72P13E1, 
these subjects received a rMenB+OMV NZ booster and MMRV at 12 months of age; 12B13M(1b) = in the open-label 
(immunogenicity) subset of V72P13, these subjects had received rMenB+OMV NZ + routine vaccinations at 2, 4 and 6 
months of age. In V72P13E1, these subjects received a rMenB+OMV NZ booster at 12 months of age and MMRV at 13 
months of age; cBaseline= blood sample taken just before the booster vaccination 
5608 
 (5111-
6154) 
N=214 
6225 
 (5571-
6956) 
N=213 
16 
(14-18) 
N=211 
14 
(13-16) 
N=212 
- 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 76/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27 Percentage of Subjects with hSBA ≥1:5 at 12 months post-booster dose in study V72P13E2  
SBA target strain 
rMenB+OMV at 2, 
4, 6, 12 months 
HH44/76 
5/99 
NZ98/254 
M10713 
185 (62%) 
 (56%; 67%) 
N=299 
290 (97%) 
(95%; 99%) 
N=298 
52 (17%) 
(13%; 22%) 
N=300 
105 (36%) 
(31%; 42%) 
Primary vaccination in children 2-10 years  
Currently data are available from studies V72P13E2, V72P12E1, V72P9E1 and V72P6E1 in children 2-
11 years. In these studies two doses were given two months apart. Overall the immune responses in 
this age group are considered satisfactory. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 77/102 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28 Bactericidal Responses Following a Two-Dose Schedule of rMenB+OMV NZ in Unvaccinated 
Children 24 to 26 Months of Age (Studies V72P12E1 and V72P13E2) and 40 to 44 Months of Age 
(Studies V72P6E1 and V72P9E1) 
Age of 
subjects 
Reference Strain (Antigen) 
Time Point / Immunogenicity 
Outcome 
Study 
V72P13E2 
Study 
V72P12E1 
Study 
V72P6E1 
Study 
V72P9E1 
24 to 26 months 
40-44 months 
Baseline 
Post 
2nd Dose 
Baseline 
Post 
2nd Dose 
Baseline 
Post 
2nd Dose 
Baseline 
Strain H44/76 
(fHBP) 
Strain 5/99 
(NadA) 
Strain 
NZ98/254 
(PorA P1.4) 
Strain 
M10713 
(NHBA) 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
hSBA GMR 
(95% CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
hSBA GMR 
(95% CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI 
hSBA GMR 
(95% CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI) 
% hSBA ≥1:4 
or 
≥1:5* (95% 
4% 
(0-13) 
N=55 
3% 
(1-8) 
N=112 
1.03 
(0.82-1.31) 
N=55 
100% 
(93-100) 
N=50 
174 
(138-221) 
N=50 
161 
(116-224) 
N=50 
2% 
(0.049-10) 
N=52 
1.11 
(0.92-1.33) 
N=52 
100% 
(93-100) 
N=50 
601 
(454-796) 
N=50 
496 
(369-666) 
N=48 
4% 
(0-13) 
N=55 
1.17 
(1.06-1.28) 
N=112 
100% 
(97-100) 
N=105 
220 
(186-261) 
N=105 
187 
(156-224) 
N=105 
1% 
(0.023-5) 
N=110 
1.04 
(0.99-1.09) 
N=110 
99% 
(95-100) 
N=103 
455 
(372-556) 
N=103 
433 
(350-536) 
N=101 
0% 
(0-3) 
N=112 
1.08 
(0.99-1.19) 
N=55 
92% 
(80-98) 
N=49 
1.01 
(0.99-1.03) 
N=112 
98% 
(93-100) 
N=108 
25 
(19-32) 
N=49 
22 
(17-29) 
N=49 
16% 
(6-29) 
N=45 
27 
(23-32) 
N=108 
27 
(23-32) 
N=108 
26% 
(18-35) 
N=109 
63% 
(46-77) 
N=40 
4.25 
(3.22-5.6) 
N=40 
100% 
(90-100) 
N=36 
88 
(66-117) 
N=36 
20 
(15-28) 
N=34 
3% 
(0.063-13) 
N=40 
1.11 
(0.9-1.36) 
N=40 
100% 
(90-100) 
N=36 
1019 
(762-1362) 
N=36 
910 
(594-1394) 
N=34 
0% 
(0-9) 
N=40 
1 
(1-1) 
N=40 
94% 
(81-99) 
N=36 
47 
(31-72) 
N=36 
47 
(31-74) 
N=34 
68% 
(51-81) 
N=40 
1.96 
(1.17-3.28) 
N=45 
82% 
(67-92) 
N=44 
2.32 
(1.89-2.85) 
N=109 
97% 
(91-99) 
N=100 
8.75 
(5.22-15) 
N=40 
89% 
(74-97) 
N=36 
3% 
(0.065-13) 
N=39 
1.08 
(0.97-1.2) 
N=39 
100% 
(88-100) 
N=30 
74 
(57-94) 
N=30 
66 
(49-90) 
N=29 
0% 
(0-9) 
N=40 
1 
(1-1) 
N=40 
100% 
(89-100) 
N=31 
247 
(188-323) 
N=31 
247 
(188-323) 
N=31 
0% 
(0-9) 
N=39 
1 
(1-1) 
N=39 
90% 
(74-98) 
N=31 
16 
(11-23) 
N=31 
16 
(11-23) 
N=30 
53% 
(36-68) 
N=40 
4.82 
(2.9-8) 
N=40 
72% 
(53-87) 
N=29 
Page 78/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post 
2nd Dose 
CI) 
hSBA GMT 
(95%CI 
hSBA GMR 
(95% CI) 
21 
(13-34) 
N=44 
9.06 
(5.39-15) 
N=41 
38 
(32-45) 
N=100 
16 
(12-22) 
N=99 
33 
(22-51) 
N=36 
3.94 
(2.14-7.25) 
N=34 
8.91 
(5.19-15) 
N=29 
1.9 
(1.12-3.22) 
N=29 
Immune response data to the NHBA Antigen 
The available NHBA immunogenicity data, including hSBA data using M10713 as the indicator strain as 
well as ELISA data against the 287-953 vaccine antigen, are summarized below. 
Infants: Three-Dose Primary Series Starting at 2 Months of Age with a Booster at 12 Months of 
Age 
In studies V72P13, V72P12 and V72P16, bactericidal activity against strain M10713 was evaluated in subsets 
of infants receiving three primary doses of rMenB+OMV NZ co-administered with routine vaccines at either 2, 
4 and 6 or 2, 3 and 4 months of age.  The response prior to and one month following a fourth or booster 
dose given at 12 months of age was also evaluated in extension studies V72P13E1 and V72P12E1, and in 
study V72P16; and one year bactericidal antibody persistence post-boost was assessed in extension study 
V72P13E2. The percentage of subjects achieving hSBA ≥1:5 and hSBA GMTs are presented below in Table 29 
and Table 30, respectively. 
Prior to vaccination at 2 months of age and presumably representing residual maternal antibodies, the 
percentages of subjects with hSBA ≥1:5 against strain M10713 ranged from 33% to 53% across the three 
rMenB+OMV NZ groups and two control groups. In study V72P13, following rMenB+OMV NZ vaccinations at 2, 
4 and 6 months of age, the percentages of subjects with hSBA ≥1:5 increased to 84% one month after the 
third vaccination, with 63% of subjects maintaining hSBA ≥1:5 at 12 months of age, indicating good 
persistence of bactericidal activity at this time point (Table 29). As shown in Table 30, hSBA GMTs increased 
significantly from a baseline value of 3.15 to 16 one month after the third vaccination, with bactericidal 
antibodies persisting at 12 months of age at a GMT of 8.4.  
One month after the fourth or booster dose administered at 12 months of age (Table 29, study V72P13E1), 
the percentage of subjects achieving an hSBA titer of 1:5 or greater increased to 97%, and hSBA GMTs 
increased from a pre-booster GMT of 8.22 to a post-booster GMT of 37, demonstrating a robust bactericidal 
response to strain M10713. At 12 months after the booster vaccination, the percentage of subjects with hSBA 
≥1:5 was 36% (95% CI: 31%-42%, Table 29, study V72P13E2), which was slightly higher than the baseline 
of a newly-recruited control group of unvaccinated subjects of similar age (26%, 95% CI: 18%-35%. This 
difference was also reflected in slightly higher hSBA GMTs for the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccinees (Table 30: 
rMenB+OMV NZ group – GMT of 3.35 [95% CI: 2.88-3.9] vs. control group – GMT 2.32 [1.89-2.85].  
Following vaccinations with rMenB+OMV NZ at the accelerated 2, 3, 4-month schedule in studies V72P12 and 
V72P16, percentages of subjects with hSBA ≥1:5 at one month after the third vaccination were only slightly 
higher than the percentages at baseline. By comparison to the responses in the two control groups after the 
third vaccination, which takes into account the decay of maternal antibodies, modest antibody responses 
could be demonstrated in rMenB+OMV NZ vaccinees (Table 29, study V72P12 - 37% vs. 6%, study V72P16 - 
43% vs. 20%).%). These results were consistent with the hSBA GMT data (Table 30), which showed slightly 
higher hSBA GMTs in the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccinees compared to those of the control subjects after the third 
vaccination. In extension study V72P12E1, a booster response was observed after the fourth dose of 
rMenB+OMV NZ with 74% of the subjects achieving a titer of 1:5 or greater; GMTs increased from a pre-
booster level of 2.23 to 11 one month after the boost. Similar booster responses were observed in subjects 
administered a fourth dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of age in study V72P16 (percentage of subjects 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 79/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with hSBA ≥1:5: 72% vs. 26% for control group receiving their first dose of rMenB+OMV NZ at 12 months of 
age, Table 29 ; hSBA GMTs: 16 vs. 2.94 for control group, Table 30). 
Table 29 Percentages (95% CI) of Subjects with hSBA ≥ 1:5 Against Strain M10713 After Primary 
Vaccination with rMenB+OMV NZ at Either 2, 4, 6 or 2, 3, 4 Months of Age with a Booster Dose at 12 Months 
of Age in Selected Groups 
Studies V72P13 /  
V72P13E1 / 
Studies V72P12 / V72P12E1 
Study V72P16 
V72P13E2 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Control Group* 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Control Group+ 
2, 4, 6, 12 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4, 12 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4, 12 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4 Month 
Schedule 
Month 0 
(Baseline) 
1 Month 
After  
3rd Dose 
Pre-Booster  
1 Month 
After  
4th Dose 
Boost 
12 Months 
After  
4th Dose 
Boost 
33% 
(24-43) 
N=100 
84% 
(75-91) 
N=100 
63% 
(50-75) 
N=65 
97% 
(89-100) 
N=65 
36%^ 
(31-42) 
N=291 
36% 
(27-45) 
N=112 
37% 
(28-46) 
N=112 
24% 
(14-35) 
N=72 
74% 
(62-84) 
N=70 
- 
44% 
(22-69) 
N=18 
6% 
(0-27) 
N=18 
24% 
(8-47) 
N=21 
- 
- 
37% 
(20-56) 
N=30 
43% 
(26-61) 
N=35 
24% 
(16-34) 
N=95 
72% 
(61-80) 
N=95 
53% 
(27-79) 
N=15 
20% 
(4-48) 
N=15 
18% 
(11-27) 
N=97 
26% 
(17-36) 
N=93 
- 
- 
All MITT populations.  
*Control group in Study V72P12 received routine vaccines only (InfanrixHexa, Prevenar) at 2, 3 and 4 months of age.   
+Control group in Study V72P16 received MenC conjugate with routine vaccines (InfanrixHexa, Prevenar) at 2, 3 and 4 
months of age. At 12 months of age, these subjects received the first of two doses of rMenB+OMV NZ.  Following the first 
dose, the percentage of subjects with hSBA ≥1:5 against strain M10713 was 26% (95% CI: 17%-36%), N=24/93.      
^Persistence of bactericidal activity was evaluated by comparing to the baseline of a newly recruited control group, which 
consisted of unvaccinated subjects approx. 24 months of age. At baseline, the percentage of subjects with hSBA ≥1:5 
against strain M10713 was 26% (95% CI: 18%-35%), N=28/109. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 80/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30 hSBA GMTs Against Strain M10713 After Primary Vaccination with rMenB+OMV NZ at Either 2, 4, 6 
or 2, 3, 4 Months of Age with a Booster Dose at 12 Months of Age in Selected Groups 
Studies V72P13 /  
V72P13E1 / 
V72P13E2 
Studies V72P12 / V72P12E1 
Study V72P16 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
Control Group* 
rMenB+OMV NZ 
2, 4, 6, 12 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4, 12 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4 Month 
Schedule 
2, 3, 4, 12 Month 
Schedule 
Control Group+ 
2, 3, 4 Month 
Schedule 
Month 0 
(Baseline) 
1 Month After 
3rd Dose 
3.15 
(2.5-3.98) 
N=100 
16 
(13-21) 
N=100 
8.22 
3.51 
(2.72-4.53) 
N=112 
3.24 
3.91 
(2-7.65) 
N=18 
1.36 
(2.49-4.21) 
(1.04-1.78) 
N=112 
2.23 
N=18 
2.5 
Pre-Booster 
(5.87-12) 
(1.68-2.96) 
(1.47-4.24) 
1 Month After  
4th Dose Boost 
12 Months 
After  
4th Dose Boost 
N=100 
37 
(29-46) 
N=65 
3.35^  
(2.88-3.9) 
N=291 
N=72 
11 
(8.31-16) 
N=70 
- 
N=21 
- 
- 
3.28 
(1.78-6.03) 
N=30 
3.29 
(1.85-5.83) 
N=35 
1.89 
(1.4-2.55) 
N=95 
16 
(10-24) 
N=95 
4.08 
(1.93-8.62) 
N=15 
 2.21 
(1.3-3.76) 
N=15 
1.79 
(1.48-2.17) 
N=97 
2.94 
(2.26-3.82) 
N=93 
- 
- 
All MITT populations. 
*Control group in Study V72P12 received routine vaccines only (InfanrixHexa, Prevenar) at 2, 3 and 4 months of 
age.   
+Control group in Study V72P16 received MenC conjugate with routine vaccines (InfanrixHexa, Prevenar) at 2, 3 and 
4 months of age. At 12 months of age, these subjects received the first of two doses of rMenB+OMV NZ.  Following 
the first dose, hSBA GMT against strain M10713 was 2.94 (95% CI: 2.26-3.82), N=93.  
^Persistence of bactericidal activity was evaluated by comparing to the baseline of a newly recruited control group, 
which consisted of vaccine-naive subjects approx. 24 months of age. At baseline, hSBA GMT against strain M10713 
was 2.32 (95% CI: 1.89-2.85), N=109. 
Concomitant vaccinations:  
The effect of concomitant routine infant vaccinations on rMenB+OMV vaccine was studied in V72P12, 
and the impact on routine infant vaccinations of concomitant vaccination with rMenB+OMV was studied 
in V72P12 and V72P13. In study V72P13E1 rMenB+OMV was given with or without concomitant MMR 
vaccination.  
Non-inferiority of responses to concomitantly administered routine infant vaccines was demonstrated 
for most antigens in studies V72P12 and V72P13. Non-inferiority of the immune responses to 
rMenB+OMV when given with or without routine infant vaccinations was only studied in V72P12. In this 
study non-inferiority was demonstrated for two of the antigens, fHbp (H44/76) and NadA (5/99), but 
not for the OMV (NZ98/254) or the NHBA (287-953) antigens. In the phase III study V72P13 the 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 81/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rMenB+OMV vaccine was given concomitantly with the infant routine vaccinations, but no control 
group receiving the rMenB+OMV vaccine only was included. Thus, the responses to the vaccine are to 
some extent lower when the rMenB+OMV vaccine is given together with the routinely given infant 
vaccines, but the clinical relevance of the lower response is currently unclear. The responses to the 
rMenB+OMV vaccine in study V72P13 are considered robust (see above). 
The response to MMRV vaccinations when given with or without rMenB+OMV vaccine was studied in 
V72P13E1. The non-inferiority criterion was achieved for the vaccine antigens Measles, Mumps and 
Rubella at the specified cut-off levels of ≥255 mIU/mL, ≥10 U/mL and ≥10 IU/mL, respectively. For 
Varicella, the non-inferiority was demonstrated for the cut-off level of ≥1.25 gpELISA units/mL 
(seroconversion) but could not be demonstrated for the higher cut-off level of ≥5 gp ELISA units/mL 
(seroprotection). The immune response was measured after the first dose of the licensed 2 dose series 
for the MMRV vaccine used in the study (Priorix-Tetra).  
The effect of paracetamol on immune responses in infants 
Preliminary data from study V72P16 demonstrated that the prophylactic use of paracetamol did not 
affect the immunogenicity of either Bexsero or routine vaccines. This study is included in the RMP, and 
a final report is awaited.  
In addition, a post-hoc analysis of Study V72P13 data was performed evaluating the impact of 
antipyretic use on the bactericidal responses to three doses of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine given at 2, 4 
and 6 months of age. No significant differences were observed between subjects receiving antipyretics 
or not. In conclusion, paracetamol does not appear to decrease the immune responses to Bexsero in 
infants, when given prophylactic or therapeutically.  
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The clinical studies include infants from 2 months, catch-up vaccination in 6-8 month and 12 month 
booster or primary vaccination, children 2-4 years, adolescents 11-17 years of age, and to some 
extent adults 18-50 years of age. Group B meningococcal disease mainly affects young children, with a 
second incidence peak in adolescents, and the use of the vaccine will mainly aim at protecting these 
age groups. However, in an outbreak situation, it may be desirable to be able to vaccinate the entire 
population in order to limit an epidemic. No data on immunosuppressed individuals, premature infants, 
and elderly are available.  
There are no licensed commercially available vaccines against meningococcal group B disease which 
excludes the use of comparator vaccine to compare immunogenicity. In some studies a formulation of 
Bexsero without outer membrane vesicles (OMV) was used as a parallel group, in one study placebo 
was used as a control, and for safety a MenC conjugated vaccine was used as a control in the pivotal 
study V72P13. 
In general the compliance was very good with few drop-outs.  In the extension study V72P13E1 the 
number of groups was large. The different groups in V72P13E1 had been exposed to various 
background vaccinations from the main study V72P13 and for some of the populations analysed the 
number of excluded subjects was high (per protocol, persistence population). 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 82/102 
 
 
 
 
Bactericidal assay as surrogate marker of protection 
No efficacy studies have been performed in the clinical development of Bexsero. Efficacy studies 
against group B meningococci are not considered feasible due to the relatively low incidence of 
disease. The real benefit of Bexsero given to infants in a situation where circulating strains are 
heterogeneous, can only be evaluated after introducing the vaccine in a childhood vaccination 
program.  
The strategy for demonstrating protection has aimed at determination of protective antibody responses 
against the four antigenic components of the vaccine, fHbp (936-741), NadA (961c), NHBA (287-953), 
and PorA1.4 (OMV NZ).  
The bactericidal assay has been shown to correlate to protection against meningococcal disease in 
several studies. The cut-off established as a serological correlate of protection for group A, C W and Y 
meningococci is an hSBA titre ≥1:4, which has been used in studies aiming at regulatory approval of 
polysaccharide conjugate vaccines. The same cut-off has been used for group B meningococci, using a 
bactericidal assay, although the antigens used in the vaccine are not polysaccharides. The use of hSBA 
titre ≥1:4 has internationally been recognised as a correlate of protection against meningococci, 
including serogroup B. In addition, this cut-off has been shown to correlate to protection using OMV 
vaccines against serogroup B meningococci in Norway, Cuba and New Zealand. Considering that no 
efficacy data are available for this vaccine, it is not considered sufficient to base the evaluation of 
vaccine efficacy on a single threshold, but robust responses should be provided, e.g. higher threshold 
values and reverse cumulative distribution curves. It is possible that higher titres are required for long-
term protection, and in at least some studies results have been presented also for SBA titres ≥1:8. 
Reverse cumulative distribution curves of SBA titres across studies were also submitted.  
Taken together the SBA is considered a relevant method for demonstrating protective immune 
responses following vaccination with rMenB+OMV. The Company has requested CHMP Scientific advice 
regarding this issue several times during the development, and the CHMP has supported the overall 
strategy for demonstrating adequate immune responses.  
In all studies SBA using strains specific for fHbp (936-741), NadA (961c), and PorA1.4 (OMV NZ) were 
used. For NHBA (287-953), a SBA strain (M10713) was recently established, and some data were 
provided in the initial application and in response questions during the assessment period. In some 
studies results from SBA using additional strains were also presented, i.e. V72P6, V72P9, V72P13, 
V72P6E1, V72P9E1 and V72P16.  
Estimation of vaccine coverage 
In order to estimate the overall protective efficacy against all MenB strains, a method for 
characterisation of strains regarding expression of the vaccine antigens in sufficient levels for 
susceptibility to bactericidal activity has been developed, termed “Meningococcal Antigen Typing 
System” or MATS. Whether a specific strain is killed by the vaccine induced immune response would 
depend both on immunological cross-reactivity and the level of the antigen expression in the target 
strain.  MATS relative potency (RP) values reflect both parameters and were correlated with 
bactericidal activity against the 3 reference strains H44/76, 5/99 and NZ98/254, to establish 
bactericidal threshold values. MATS test values above the threshold means that a majority of tested 
serogroup B strains are killed in SBA.  
When clinical isolates were used in the SBA instead of the reference strains, variable results were 
achieved and these were not always explained by the absence or presence of the main vaccine 
antigens (fHbp, NHBA, NadA, PorA).  Another concern is the strict specificity and rapid decline of 
bactericidal antibodies against porA (OMV) and the low coverage provided by fHbp due to limited 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 83/102 
 
 
 
 
cross-reactivity against other subvariants than the one in the vaccine and the low prevalence of the 
NadA antigen in Europe.  All strains with the variant 1 of the fHBP will give a positive score in the MATS 
test, whereas it is evident from the clinical trials (V72P6, V72P9) that infants show a very limited 
cross-reactivity against other subvariants than the 1.1 present in the vaccine. The influence of 
sequence variability (subvariants) among fHBP variant 1 on bactericidal antibody responses has 
recently been published.  
A group B meningococcal strain collection consisting of 1053 invasive clinical isolates from Norway, UK, 
Germany, France, and Italy collected during 2007-2008 has been established. The complete strain 
panel has now been characterised and based on MATS data derived from the 1052 typeable strains, an 
estimated 78% (95% CI: 63%; 90%) of strains are predicted to be covered by the vaccine. The 
available strain collection is likely to be representative of the situation in Western Europe. Data from 
Central and Eastern European countries will be collected in collaboration with ECDC.   
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Infants: In the pivotal study (V72P13) immune responses were measured following three doses given 
at 2, 4 and 6 months of age. The primary endpoint was percentage of subjects obtaining an hSBA 
≥1:5. Robust immune responses were demonstrated after three doses, 100% obtained SBA titres ≥1:5 
against strains H44/76 and 5/99, and 84% against strain NZ98/254. These results are supported by 
the phase II study V72P12. Similar responses to strains H44/76, 5/99 and NZ98/254 were 
demonstrated after a priming schedule of 2, 3, 4 months.  
Immunogical memory 
In studies V72P13E1 and V72P6 the responses to a single booster does at 12 months of age were 
clearly stronger than the response to a single dose given to unprimed children, supporting that three 
doses given 2 months apart are sufficient to elicit immunological memory in infants. The immune 
responses up to 12 months after the 4th dose were studied in V72P13E2. The responses to fHbp and 
NadA were still high, while the responses to NHBA and OMV had decreased to lower levels.  
Dose schedule 
In study V72P12, rMenB+OMV was given at 2, 4 and 6 months of age or at 2, 3 and 4 months of age. 
The two schedules resulted in similar response rates in terms of hSBA ≥1:4 to fHbp, NadA and PorA, 
but the GMTs were slightly lower for the 2, 3, 4 months schedule. The responses to NHBA were 
considerably lower following the 2, 3, 4, month schedule. The Applicant is asked to describe plans for 
clinical studies of 2-dose priming in infants.  
Catch-up vaccinations at 6-23 months: Immune responses to two doses at 6 and 8 months followed by 
a third dose at 12 months were studied in V72P9. The responses to the two-dose catch-up vaccination 
followed by a single dose at 12 months were adequate, as this schedule resulted in immune responses 
that were similar or higher than the 3+1 infant schedule.  
In V72P13E1 two catch-up doses given at 12 and 14 or 13 and 15 months of age resulted in high 
immune responses, comparable to the responses seen following a single booster dose in previously 
primed infants. However, the immune responses to 2 doses waned over 12 months to NHBA and PorA 
suggesting the need for a third booster dose. TThe suggested posology for children 6 to 11 months of 
age should be 2 priming doses at least two months apart and one booster dose in the second year of 
life with an interval of at least 2 months between the primary series and the booster dose, whilst the 
suggested posology for children 12 to 23 months of age should be 2 priming doses at least two months 
apart and one booster dose to be administered with an interval of 12 months to 23 months between 
the primary series and booster dose  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 84/102 
 
 
 
 
Children 2-11 years of age: Data on children 24-26 and 40-44 months of age demonstrate robust 
immune responses to the fHbp, NadA, PorA1.4 antigens, and slightly lower responses to NHBA. The 
responses are considered to be in agreement with results from younger and older subjects.  
Adolescents: The immune responses in adolescents 11-17 years were studied in V72P10 only. This 
study was conducted in Chile. No data on vaccine antigen expression in circulating strains are available 
from Chile. The proportion of subject with baseline titres ≥1:4 against fHbp, NadA and PorA was 
similar in the Chilean study compared to adult studies in Europe (V72P4 and V72P5), supporting 
comparability of the study populations. A single dose of rMenB+OMV resulted in overall lower response 
rates compared to the 2- and 3-dose regimens. The difference in SBA response frequency between the 
2- and 3- dose groups were very small, if any, which supports the recommended 2-dose schedule in 
adolescents. Thus, at least two doses are required to induce a strong response in this population. 
Antibody persistence was demonstrated up to 6 months following primary vaccination in adolescents, 
and booster responses to a single booster dose given 4-6 months following primary vaccination were 
demonstrated.  
High levels of pre-existing antibodies to NHBA were demonstrated in V72P10. A number of reasons for 
this were presented, but no firm conclusions can be drawn. Titer increases were demonstrated 
following vaccination in subjects with pre-existing titres, as well as in subjects with titres below 1:4, 
indicating that Bexsero provides protection against strains expressing NHBA also in this age group. 
Adults: Only limited data are available in adults. The study populations consisted of healthy adults 18-
40 and 18-50 years of age respectively. No data are available in risk groups, or elderly. The immune 
responses were high after 2 doses, with IgG increases also after the 3rd dose. A decline of immune 
responses up to 6 months following vaccination was seen. No evidence of immunological memory or 
antibody persistence beyond 6 months is available. The suggested 2-dose schedule needs to be 
confirmed by follow-up data. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Robust primary SBA responses against fHbp (936-741), NadA (961c), and PorA1.4 (OMV NZ) have 
been demonstrated in the relevant age groups. Overall, the responses to the NHBA antigen were lower 
than to the other antigens in terms of number of subjects with titres above 1:5. This was particularly 
concerning for infants given the 2, 3, 4 month schedule, and for the catch-up schedule in children over 
12 months of age. The need for further booster doses is currently unclear, and the persistence of 
protective levels of antibodies is unknown.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Eight studies were included to support the safety and tolerability of this vaccine, comprising 3 studies 
(V72P4, V72P5 and V72P10) in subjects 11 years of age and older (adolescents 11 to 17 years of age 
and adults 18 to 50 years of age) and 5 studies (V72P6, V72P9, V72P12, V72P13, and V72P13E1) in 
the infant and toddler populations (from 2 months of age). Five separate dosing regimens given to  
different age groups are discussed throughout, specifically: 
1)  
1) A 3-dose schedule administered at least 1 month apart for infants beginning from 2 months of age, 
followed by a booster in the second year of life 
2) A 2-dose schedule administered 2 months apart for vaccine naïve older infants 6 months to 11 
months of age, followed by a booster dose in the second year of life with an interval of at least 2 
months between the primary series and booster dose 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 85/102 
 
 
 
 
 
3) A 2-dose schedule administered 2 months apart for vaccine naïve children, 12 months to 23 months 
of age, followed by a booster dose with an interval of 12 months to 23 months between the primary 
series and booster dose 
4) A 2-dose schedule administered at least 2 months apart in children 2 years to 10 years 
5) A 2-dose schedule administered at least 1 month apart for adolescents and adults 11 years of age 
and older 
Complete safety data are presented for all studies except study V72P10 in adolescents. Longer term 
safety follow-up of the study V72P10 is currently ongoing; the current submission includes only the 
unsolicited AE data from between day 1 and one month after the third vaccination at visit 4 (study 
month 3).  
Patient exposure 
The total number of subjects exposed to at least one dose of the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine was 6427 
subjects (from 2 months of age), including 4843 infants and toddlers with dosing regimen beginning 
from 2 to 12 months of age,1503 adolescents (11 to 17 years of age), and 81 adults (18 to 50 years of 
age). Of the subjects who received primary infant series of rMenB+OMV NZ, 1630 received a booster 
dose in the second year of life. 
The pooled clinical safety database used to characterize the rMenB+OMV NZ safety profile includes 
1503 adolescents 11 to 17 years of age, 81 adults 18 to 50 years of age and 4846 infant and toddlers 
with dosing regimen beginning from 2 to 12 months of age. 
During the procedure, additional data for the following studies V72P16, V72P10, V72P6E1, V72P9E1, 
V72P12E1 and V72P13E2 were submitted. The Applicant should provide final study reports for studies 
V72P16 and V72P12E1, along with an updated summary of safety including all the above mentioned 
studies  one month after Commission Decision.  
Table 31 rMenB+OMV NZ Safety Populations 
a625 and 627 subjects with a 2,4,6 schedule with and without concomitant routine vaccinations and 318 with a 2, 3, 4 schedule with 
concomitant vaccinations;  
b2, 4, 6 schedule with concomitant routine vaccinations; Note: DTaP-Hib-IPV= Pediacel, diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis, 
poliovirus types 1, 2, 3, H. influenzae type b combined vaccine; PCV7 = Prevenar, heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine; 
MenC = Menjugate, meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 86/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety follow-up period was at least 6 months. Overall 1630 subjects received a rMenB+OMV NZ 
booster dose in the second year of life and had a 6-month safety follow up period. 
Table 32 Overview of Clinical Studies Included to Support rMenB+OMV NZ Safety (Booster 
Immunization) 
Age at 
enrolment  
12 
months 
Study number  
(Phase) 
V72P6 
(Phase 2) 
V72P9 
(Phase 2) 
V72P13E1 
(Phase 3) 
Total 
Schedule 
Number in the safety population 
rMenB-OMV NZ 
Control 
Concomitant 
Routine vaccines 
48a 
None 
Menitorix 
27b 
None 
None 
1555 
None 
Priorix-Tetra 
Booster at 12 
months of age 
with 6-months 
safety follow-up 
Booster at 12 
months of age 
with 6-months 
safety follow-up 
Booster at 12 
months of age 
with 6-months 
safety follow-up 
1630 
0 
a48 of the 50 subjects received the fourth (booster) dose; b27 of the 30 subjects received the third dose (booster). 
Overview of Adverse events  
Adolescents and Adults 
11 to 17 Years of Age 
From study day 1 and month 4, the most commonly reported unsolicited AEs after any vaccination was 
nasopharyngitis (range, 6% to 8%) including placebo. The most common AE that was possibly or 
probably related after any vaccination was injection site pain. Between study day 1 and month 3, the 
most frequently reported unsolicited AEs were similar for the two-dose schedule, regardless of dosing 
interval: nasopharyngitis, headache, injection site pain, induration, and swelling, and pharyngitis were 
reported in at least 2% of subjects. No other individual AE by preferred term was reported by more 
than 2% in any of the two-dose schedule groups. 
Within 30 days of vaccination, the most frequently reported unsolicited AEs were similar for the 
rMenB+OMV NZ and placebo vaccine groups: nasopharyngitis, injection site pain, and bronchitis were 
reported by no more than 4% of subjects in at least one of the vaccine groups; no other individual AE 
by preferred term was reported by more than 2% of the subjects in any vaccine group 
Overall, the percentage of subjects reporting AEs was lower with additional vaccination and similar 
across dose groups. Most of the AEs after each vaccination were mild and few were moderate. Severe 
AEs were infrequently reported across the vaccine groups. The percentage of subjects reporting AEs 
after each vaccination was similar between the groups receiving two or three doses, respectively of the 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine. The most commonly reported possibly related unsolicited AEs were local 
reactions continuing past the 7-day observational period: injection site pain and induration were 
reported similarly across dose groups. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 87/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 to 50 Years of Age 
Between study day 1 and month 3 after vaccination, the most frequently reported unsolicited AEs were 
lower in the adult subjects than the adolescent subjects with a similar dose schedule: nasopharyngitis, 
pharyngitis, and injection site pain and indurations were reported by 1% to 7% of the subjects. No 
other individual AE by preferred term was reported by more than 2% in any of the two-dose schedules. 
A lower percentage of adult subjects reported events that were judged by the investigator to be 
possibly or probably related AEs than for the adolescent subjects with similar dose schedule (0-1-
month schedule: 4% vs. 17% and 0-2-month schedule: 13% vs. 16%, respectively. The most 
commonly reported possibly or probably related unsolicited AEs were local reactions ongoing past the 
7-dayobservational period: swelling and injection site pain and injection site induration. 
Infants and Toddlers 
Infants 
Overall, between study day 1 and 7 months of age, the most commonly reported AEs after any 
vaccination with rMenB+OMV NZ with concomitant routine vaccines at the 2, 4, 6- month schedule 
were injection site induration (42%), erythema (13%), and swelling (9%; mostly considered as 
possibly related to vaccination as these local reactions of induration, erythema, and were solicited AEs 
continuing after the 7-day vaccination window and upper respiratory tract infections (10%); mostly 
considered unrelated to vaccination. Injection site AEs were more frequently reported in subjects 
receiving rMenB+OMV NZ with concomitant routine vaccines than those receiving MenC with 
concomitant routine vaccines or routine vaccines only. 
Older Vaccine Naive Infants and Toddlers (2-dose schedule) 
In the older vaccine naive infants subjects who received a 2-dose primary series of rMenB+OMV NZ 
vaccine at 6 to 8 months of age, the most frequently experienced unsolicited AEs were teething (27%), 
cough (20%), and conjunctivitis (17%).; The most frequently experienced possibly or probably related 
unsolicited AEs were erythema (13%), induration (13%), and cough (10%). The most commonly 
reported AE by preferred term in vaccine naive toddlers was injection site induration which was 
reported by between 24% and .33% of subjects who received a 2-dose primary series vaccination at 
12 or 13 months of age.  
Booster Dose in Toddlers (at 12 months of age) 
The most commonly reported AE by preferred term was “injection site induration” which was reported 
by 21% who received a 12-month booster administered with or without concomitant Priorix-Tetra 
vaccine. The most frequently experienced unsolicited AEs in older, vaccine naive infants who received a 
third (booster) dose of the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine at 12 months of age were teething, rhinitis, and 
cough .The most frequently experienced possibly or probably related unsolicited AE was rhinitis. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 88/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33 Overview of Unsolicited AEs in Infants 
Percentages of Subjects  
Primary Period  
Group 
MenB+R Total 
P6+P12+P13 
2,4,6 Schedule 
2,3,4 Schedule 
MenB+R 
MenC+R 
Routine 
MenB+R 
MenB+R3,5,7 
MenB+R 
Routine 
V72 Studies  
P13 
P13 
P13 
P12 
P12 
P12 
P12 
N=3155 
N=2480  N=488  N=658  N=625 
N=627 
N=318  N=312 
Any AEs 
2431 (77) 
1924(78)  309 (63)  468 (71)  462(74) 
531 (85) 
211 (66)  195 (63) 
1642 (52) 
1339 (53)  204 (42)  226 (34)  290(46%) 
336 (54) 
145 (46)  96 (31) 
At least 
possibly 
related AEs 
Serious AEs 
128 (4) 
90 (4) 
13 (3) 
17 (3) 
37(6) 
35 (6) 
5 (2) 
10 (3) 
Follow-up Period  
Any AEs 
1690 (54) 
1336 (54)  172 (35)  366 (56)  347 (56) 
321 (51) 
174 (55)  167 (54) 
At least 
possibly 
related AEs 
9 (<1) 
7 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (1) 
1 (<1) 
Serious AEs 
156 (5) 
125 (5) 
15 (3) 
35 (5) 
28 (4) 
26 (4) 
15 (5) 
10 (3) 
R=Routine 
Serious adverse event/deaths 
There were no deaths reported in any of the studies. 
Across all ages, reports of SAEs were infrequent both for the rMenB+OMV NZ and comparator groups 
within each study and in most part classified under the system organ classes (SOCs) “infections or 
infestations” and “general disorders and administration site conditions” Overall, no increased risk of 
any specific SAE considered to be clinically significant in infants, toddlers, adolescents and adults 
vaccinated with rMenB+OMV NZ was identified upon review of the SAEs across studies. 
Adolescents and Adults 
11 to 17 Years of Age 
Ten subjects reported AEs that were assessed to be serious. All of the subjects recovered within the 
observation period. 
The majority of SAEs were adverse events coded to SOC “infections or infestations” and most of these 
were moderate in severity  
18 to 50 Years One  
One subject in the study V72P5 in rMenB+OMV NZ group was diagnosed with HIV infection. This SAE 
was assessed as not related to study vaccination. 
No SAEs were reported for study V72P4. 
Infants and Toddlers 
A total of 52 subjects in the infant and toddler population experienced SAEs that were clinically 
significant and 19 events were considered possibly or probably related by the investigator. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 89/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Throughout the studies, SAEs were infrequently reported as no more than 1% of infants reported SAEs 
after the first, second, and third dose. 
The SOCs most affected were “infections and infestations” and “general disorders and administration 
site condition” across the three doses administered (<1%). 
The SOCs most affected were “infections and infestations” and “general disorders and administration 
site condition” across the three doses administered (<1%). 
Adverse Events of Special Interest 
Fever 
The safety profile of rMenB+OMV NZ in the second year of life comes mainly from study V72P13E1 in 
which subjects from study V72P13 received either a fourth booster dose at 12 months of age or 2-
doses 2-months apart in immunologically naive toddlers at either 12, 14 or 13, 15 months with and 
without concomitant administration of the MMRV (i.e., measles, mumps rubella and varicella) live-
attenuated combination vaccine (Priorix Tetra). Local and systemic reactions were collected for days 1-
7 after rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination and for days 1-28 after MMRV vaccination. 
Fever (≥38.0°C) was reported for 41% to 58% of subjects (across groups) and no more than 1% (4 
for 12B12M, N=765; 2 for 12B13M, N=789) of subjects had fever ≥40°C.  Overall fever rates of 
rMenB+OMV NZ were comparable to that of the Priorix Tetra vaccine. Moreover, the fever associated 
with rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination was predictable, occurring early after vaccination, and transient, with 
the majority resolving within 2 days. Fever ≥38°C within 7 days of vaccination was reported more 
when concomitantly administered with the Priorix Tetra than when rMenB+OMV NZ was given alone 
(46% vs. 37%), A more detailed analysis of fever was performed by comparing the daily fever rates 
for the month (days 1-28) after the 12 months of age vaccination in groups rMenB+OMV NZ alone 
(12B13M g.) Fever was mostly reported during the 1-4 days after the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination 
alone and during the 5-28 days after the Priorix Tetra vaccination alone. When rMenB+OMV NZ was 
given concomitantly with the Priorix Tetra vaccine, the fever rates showed a trend towards an additive 
rather than a synergistic effect of the two vaccinations i.e. fever reported during the 1-3 day period as 
well as during the 5-28 day period after the vaccinations. The rate and magnitude of fever were similar 
between rMenB+OMV NZ and Priorix Tetra (MMRV) vaccine. 
Study V72P16 evaluated the effect of administering paracetamol as prophylaxis against fever caused 
by vaccination.  When paracetamol was given just before vaccination (Bexsero + routine vaccines), 
followed by two doses 4-6 hours apart, the rate of fever decreases significantly.  The fraction of 
subjects with fever ≥ 38.5°C decreases from 69% in non-treated group to 39% in the group receiving 
paracetamol.  Thus, it was suggested that the fever associated with Bexsero can be managed by using 
antipyretics, or by other means such as separating routine vaccination from vaccination with Bexsero 
and by proper information to parents.  
In the rMenB + OMV NZ group that did not receive prophylactic paracetamol. 56%, 55%, 36% and 
54% of subjects were treated at least once during the 7 days after the  first, second, third and fourth 
dose of rMenB + OMV NZ respectively which shows that there is a high fever rate after vaccination.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 90/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 34 Numbers (%) of Subjects Reporting Antipyretic Medication Use by rMenB+OMV NZ Dose in 
the Non-Prophylactic Control Arm of Study V72P16  
rMenB+OMV NZ 
2, 3, 4-Month Schedule 
Non-Prophylactic Paracetamol Treatment Group 
Dose 
1 
2 
3 
4 
56% (102/182) 
55% (100/182) 
36% (66/181) 
54% (84/155) 
Seizures 
In the pivotal studies V72P12 and V72P13 representing ~4000 subjects exposed to Bexsero. 3 cases of 
febrile seizures were reported within 2 days of vaccination. In 2 cases Bexsero were co- administered 
with Infanrix hexa and Prevenar and in one case Bexsero was given alone. One of the subjects had a 
pre-existing neurological condition. Fever associated with vaccination occur typically within 2 days after 
vaccination with an onset around 6 hours post vaccination 
Non-febrile seizures were reported in nine subjects by onset interval from the last dose of study 
vaccine. Two cases of convulsions occurred on the same day as the vaccinations with rMenB+OMV NZ, 
InfanrixHexa and Prevenar and were judged by the investigators as possibly related to the study 
vaccinations. These events were reported as transient, non-serious adverse events of mild or moderate 
severity. The remaining seven subjects, five of whom were in the rMenB+OMV NZ group and two in 
the control group, all experienced seizures after the third study vaccinations. The episodes occurred 
anywhere from 1½ to 6 months after the vaccination dose. 
In summary, although definitive conclusions based on these observations cannot be made due to the 
relatively small number of cases, the foregoing analysis provide no evidence of an increased risk of 
febrile or non-febrile seizures associated with administration of Bexsero in small children. 
Kawasaki Disease 
There were 7 cases of suspected Kawasaki Disease (KD) reported in phase 2 and phase 3 clinical 
studies with rMenB+OMV NZ (2 cases in study V72P12, 4 cases in study V72P13 and 1 case in the 
extension study V7213E1. Six cases were in recipients of the rMenB+OMV NZ and one in a control 
subject receiving Men C conjugate. There was no significant difference in KD (confirmed or likely) 
incidence rates between the rMenB+OMV NZ and control groups and the KD cases were not clustered 
within a timeframe consistent with a causal relationship between rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination and KD. 
Overall, these few KD cases do not allow a definitive assessment of the causal relationship between 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination and the disease also considering the co-administration of rMenB+OMV NZ 
with other vaccines is a confounding factor in many of the cases.  
HHE 
Two hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode (HHE) cases (one within 1 day of vaccination with rMenB+OMV 
NZ co-administered with Infanrix Hexa and Prevenar and the other event on the same day of 
vaccination with the routine vaccines) were observed in studies V72P12 and V72P13 These rates are 
within the expected range and provide evidence against an increased risk of HHE associated with 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 91/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, these AEs of special interest either occurred at an expected frequency for the relevant age or a 
causal relationship between rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination and the occurrence of the event could not be 
clearly established.  
No AEs leading to withdrawal and no other significant AEs raised a safety concern. 
Laboratory findings 
Two abnormal laboratory values in subjects receiving rMenB+OMV NZ were assessed as clinically 
significant (one case of elevated γGT value (131 U/L), and one positive HIV test and were described in 
study V72P5. 
Immunological events 
No immunological events except for few cases of urticaria and rash were recorded or described in the 
provided study safety data. 
No autoimmune disorders were described. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The clinical studies included concomitant administration of other vaccines such as Infanrix Hexa, 
Prevenar and Priorix Tetra (MMRV). The safety data are presented with the assessment of study 
reports. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuations were reported from adult study V72P4 where two subjects were withdrawn, one due 
to syncope day 1 and another due to nasopharyngitis on day 212. Additionally one subject was 
confirmed with pregnancy and withdrew her consent. In adolescent study V72P10 one subject 
withdrew due to convulsions two minutes after the first vaccination. No withdrawals with possible 
relationship to vaccinations were described from the infant and toddler studies. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, the data presented indicate that rMenB+OMV NZ has an acceptable safety profile based on a 
controlled safety database of 4846 infants and toddlers and 1584 adolescents and adults receiving at 
least one dose of rMenB+OMV NZ in clinical studies used to support the vaccine safety claims in this 
application. The database is sufficient to detect adverse reactions in the frequency 1/1000, but an 
extended database would be required to identify more unusual adverse events. The Applicant has 
included post-authorisation studies in the Pharmacovigilance Plan with the aim of increasing the safety 
database and continuing to characterise the safety profile of Bexsero. 
The use of rMenB+OMV NZ in infants was associated with frequent reports of reactogenicity and 
especially of local reactions. Most of these were of mild or moderate severity and transient. 
Reactogenicity overall was higher after administration of vaccine including OMV. Co-administration of 
rMenB+OMV NZ+ Priorix Tetra was more reactogenic than any of the vaccines alone. 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination in the infant population was associated with increased rates of fever, 
which is consistent with safety data collected after administration of other OMV based vaccines. 
Generally the recipients of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine experienced higher rates of fever compared with 
those receiving Men C vaccine with routine vaccines or the routine vaccines alone. Fever associated 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 92/102 
 
 
 
 
with rMenB+OMV NZ + routine group and with onset mainly occurred between 6 hours and one day 
post-vaccination. The majority of fever resolved within 48 hours. Medically attended fever in the 
rMenB+OMV NZ + routine and comparator groups occurred with a frequency of <1% to 3% of subjects 
across vaccine groups.  The higher rates of fever were not associated with an increase in medically 
attended events. In all presented clinical studies, antipyretics were given after vaccination. Preliminary 
reactogenicity data from an ongoing study using a 2, 3, 4 vaccination schedule suggest that use of 
paracetamol just before vaccination may reduce fever rates by approximately 50% after the first dose. 
Analgesics/antipyretics medications were frequently used and, consistent with the higher fever rates, 
more common in the rMenB+OMV NZ + routine group than for MenC +routine and routine alone. 
Therapeutic antipyretic treatment was more common than prophylactic antipyretic treatment. 
Although the accelerated 2, 3, 4 schedule given with routine vaccinations was used in a relatively small 
(N= 318) proportion of the infant safety population, it was considered that this number was sufficient 
to detect common adverse events, such as fever. As the safety profile of rMenB+OMV NZ was most 
comparable to that of rMenB+OMV NZ given at 2, 4, 6 months of age with concomitant routine 
vaccines, these data would most likely support the use of the vaccine with either schedule. 
No immunological reactions – except for urticaria and rash – or autoimmune disorders have been 
noted in the safety reporting.  
Adverse events of special interest observed are convulsions – with or without fever, HHE and Kawasaki 
disease which are all labelled in section 4.8 of the SPC.Regarding the seven reported KD cases these 
do not allow a definitive assessment of the causal relationship between rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination 
and the co-administration of rMenB+OMV NZ with other vaccines is a confounding factor in many of 
the cases. Geographical and temporal clustering was observed and as well as a seasonal variation of 
the cases which together with  a wide range of onset intervals for the cases following vaccination may 
question a causal relation between rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination and KD. The actual cause of Kawasaki 
disease is not completely known. It has been suggested that the disease, with symptoms of vasculitis 
may be autoimmune but some infectious origin has also been discussed. The disease often appears in 
clusters and during spring or in autumn in mostly children aged less than 5 years. Kawasaki disease 
will be investigated in a post-licensure observational study and is included as a potential risk in the 
RMP. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The safety data base is considered to be sufficient to detect adverse reactions in at least a frequency of 
1:1000 and appropriate as safety data package for licensure. The provided safety data show that the 
reaction patterns regarding local as well as systemic reactions were similar within all studies in the 
different age cohorts. 
Overall, the safety profile is comparable with what would be expected after vaccination with any of the 
routine vaccines administered in the related age-groups. Generally, no significant differences in the 
frequency of AEs after incremental dose occurred. The intensity of the adverse events did not increase 
by dose. Co-administration with rMenB+OMV NZ and Priorix Tetra showed increased reactogenicity 
compared to the other vaccines – co-administered or alone. 
The applicant agreed to investigate potential risks such as febrile seizures and Kawasaki Disease in a 
post-licensure observational safety study as part of the pharmacovigilance activities.  
Study V72P16 evaluated the effect of paracetamol as prophylaxis against fever caused by vaccination. 
Study results suggested that the fever associated with Bexsero can be managed by using antipyretics, 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 93/102 
 
 
 
 
or separating routine vaccination from vaccination with Bexsero. This information has been introduced 
in the relevant sections of the Product Information. 
Additional to the post-authorisation studies proposed by the Applicant, the CHMP considers the 
following measure necessary to address any potential issues related to safety: 
An updated integrated safety summary including studies V72P16 and V72P12E1 should be submitted 
one month after Commission Decision.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan version 4 of 12 November 2012. 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety 
concern  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimization activities (routine 
activities (routine and 
and additional)  
additional)  
Important identified Risk: 
Fever  
Routine PV 
Routine minimization with SmPC and package leaflet 
 V72P16 study and paracetamol 
for the management of the fever: 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for use: “As with many 
vaccines, health care professional should be aware 
that a temperature elevation may occur following 
vaccination of infants and children (less than 2 years 
of age). Prophylactic administration of antipyretics at 
the time and closely after vaccination can reduce the 
incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile 
reactions. Antipyretic medication should be initiated 
according to local guidelines in infants and children 
(less than 2 years of age).” 
Important potential risks: 
Guillain-Barré 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
None  
Syndrome  
with questionnaire and 
adjudication by SMT and post-
licensure observational safety 
surveillance study V72_36OB 
Acute 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance  
None 
disseminated 
with questionnaire and 
encephalomyeli
adjudication by SMT and post-
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 94/102 
 
 
 
 
 
tis 
licensure observational safety 
surveillance study V72_36OB 
Anaphylaxis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine minimization with SmPC or country specific 
and 
Anaphylactic 
Shock 
Post-licensure observational 
safety surveillance study 
V72_36OB 
equivalent labeling with section 4.3 
contraindications: “Hypersensitivity to the active 
substances or to any of the excipients listed” and 
section 4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions:” As 
with all injectable vaccines, appropriate medical 
treatment and supervision should always be readily 
available in case of an anaphylactic event following 
the administration of the vaccine.”. 
Chronic Fatigue 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
None 
Syndrome  
Kawasaki 
Disease 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance  
Routine minimization with SmPC section 4.8 and 
with questionnaire and 
package leaflet: Undesirable effects:” Vascular 
adjudication by expert panel and 
disorders  
post-licensure observational 
safety surveillance study 
V72_36OB 
“Plan B” studies: V72_47OB 
Rare: Kawasaki syndrome” 
Seizure and 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance  
Routine minimization with SmPC  section 4.8 and 
febrile seizure 
with questionnaire and 
package leaflet: Undesirable effects:” Nervous 
adjudication by SMT and  post-
system disorders, Uncommon: seizures (including 
licensure observational safety 
febrile seizures)” 
surveillance study V72_36OB 
“Plan B” studies: V72_47OB and 
V72_52OB 
V72P16 and V72P13E2 additional 
data 
Decrease 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine minimization with SmPC section 4.5 and 
V72P16 study and paracetamol 
immunogenicity 
after 
prophylactic 
use of 
paracetamol 
package leaflet: “Due to an increased risk of fever, 
tenderness at the injection site, change in eating 
habits and irritability when Bexsero was co-
administered with the above vaccines, separate 
vaccinations can be considered when possible. 
Prophylactic use of paracetamol reduces the 
incidence and severity of fever without affecting the 
immunogenicity of either Bexsero or routine 
vaccines. The effect of antipyretics other than 
paracetamol on the immune response has not been 
studied.” 
Important missing Information: 
Vaccine 
Post-licensure observational 
None 
vaccine effectiveness study 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 95/102 
 
 
 
 
effectiveness 
V72_38OB study 
“Plan B” studies: V72_48OB and 
V72_53OB 
Vaccine failure 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
None 
with SMT adjudication on pre-
establish criteria and research 
every 6 months in the database 
V72_38OB study 
“Plan B” studies: V72_48OB and 
V72_53OB 
Strain/serotype 
Nasopharyngeal Carriage study 
None 
replacement 
to define the next step.V72_29 
study and V72_38OB study 
“Plan B” studies: V72_48OB and 
V72_53OB 
Elderly 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine minimization with SmPC section 4.4 and 
package leaflet: “There are no data on the use of 
Bexsero in subjects above 50 years of age”. 
Immuno-
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine minimization with SmPC section 4.4 Special 
compromised 
subjects 
Study V72_31 in terminal 
complement component 
deficiency subject 
warnings and precautions for use 
Chronic Medical 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
None 
Condition 
patients 
Safety of 
Post-licensure observational 
Routine minimization with SmPC section 4.6 and 
vaccine during 
pregnancy study (V72_39OB) 
package leaflet: Pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
pregnancy  
Alternative studies if vaccine 
uptake is low in planned study 
Insufficient clinical data on exposed pregnancies are 
available. 
centers. 
The potential risk for pregnant humans is unknown. 
Nevertheless, vaccination should not be withheld 
when there is a clear risk of exposure to 
meningococcal infection. 
There was no evidence of maternal or foetal toxicity, 
and no effects on pregnancy, maternal behavior, 
female fertility, or postnatal development in a study 
in which female rabbits received Bexsero at 
approximately 10 times the human dose equivalent 
based on body weights.” 
Compliance in 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine minimization with stickers for traceability of 
V72P10 including the booster 
the 2 doses 
adolescent and 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 96/102 
 
 
 
 
young adult 
dose 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
V72_29 nasopharyngeal carriage study to evaluate the 
Final CSR by 30 June 2012 
effect of Bexsero and MenACWY Conjugate vaccines on 
Pharyngeal Carriage of N. meningitidis in young adults 
V72_31 study in individuals with terminal complement 
Final CSR by 31 December  2016 
component deficiency or functional or anatomic asplenia 
Post-approval observational study assessing the safety of 
Interim reports every 6 months for 
Bexsero vaccination in routine care. (V72_36OB) 
first 2 years 
If vaccine uptake is slow in the country(ies) where the 
Annual interim reports until the 
safety study is planned, alternative study sites will be 
end of the study, after the first 2 
identified (“Plan B” studies: V72_47OB and V72_52OB) 
years 
Final CSR by 31 December 2017 
Final CSR for “Plan B” studies by 
31 December 2018 
Post-approval observational study is to assess the impact on 
Interim reports every 6 months for 
invasive meningococcal disease (all serogroups) and 
first 2 years 
effectiveness of Bexsero vaccination against MenB and 
Annual interim reports until the 
vaccine-type disease (V72_38OB) 
end of the study, after the first 2 
If vaccine uptake is slow in the country(ies) where the 
years 
effectiveness study is planned, alternative study sites will be 
Final CSR by 31 December 2017 
identified (“Plan B” studies: V72_48OB and V72_53OB) 
Final CSR for “Plan B” studies by 
31 December 2018 
Post-authorisation observational study for monitoring use of 
Interim reports every 6 months for 
Bexsero in pregnancy (V72_39OB) 
first 2 years 
If vaccine uptake is slow in the country(ies) where the 
Annual interim reports until the 
observational study is planned, alternative study sites will be 
end of the study, after the first 2 
identified in the context of a National Immunization Program 
years 
which includes an adolescent catch-up schedule. 
Final CSR by 31 December 2017 
Safety analysis and summary as an update of eCTD module 
Safety report due one month after 
2.7.4 
Commission Decision 
Study V72P16 (infants) and V72P12E1 (children) 
Final CSR due one month after 
Commission Decision 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
In addition, the CHMP considered that the applicant should take the following minor points into 
consideration when an update of the Risk management Plan is submitted: 
The RMP should include when possible update detailed plans for effectiveness and safety studies in the 
case of low uptake of vaccine in the countries where the current pharmacovigilance studies are 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 97/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
planned (“Plan B” studies). Study protocols should be submitted with the RMP update, for review of 
PRAC, together with criteria for triggering the start of the named studies. 
2.8.  Significance of paediatric studies 
The CHMP is of the opinion that studies V72P6, V72P9, and V72P13, which are contained in the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan (P/38/2011) and have been completed after 26 January 2007, are 
considered as significant. 
2.9.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Bexsero is intended for vaccination against group B meningococci. In Europe serogroup B is the most 
prevalent meningococcal serogroup, with 3406-4819 cases being reported annually between 2003 and 
2007 as per European Center of Disease Control surveillance report for 2007. Efficacy was estimated 
using a serological correlate of protection, serum bactericidal antibodies (SBA). This considered an 
acceptable approach. High rates of SBA responses have been demonstrated against all four vaccine 
components in infants and adolescents following 3 and 2 doses respectively. The SBA titer cut-off used 
in these studies (≥1:4 or 1:5) is considered an acceptable correlate of protection. In addition, these 
results are supported by data on response rates using a higher cut-off, e.g. ≥1:8. Also in adults, 
immune responses to three of the vaccine components have been determined, although the study 
population was comparatively small.  
The proposed amount of antigen in each dose has been demonstrated to be adequate based on interim 
data from the dose-finding study V72P16 in infants, as well as the previous experience with the OMV 
component alone.  
Booster responses to all four antigens were shown at 12 months of age in infants previously vaccinated 
with 3 doses at least 1 month apart starting at 2 months of age and infants receiving two doses 
starting at 6 months of age. Data in adolescents supported the presence of immunological memory at 
6 months following primary vaccination.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Although the immune responses measured by SBA are expected to be protective, no efficacy data are 
available. This does not preclude the granting of the marketing authorisation based on immunogenicity 
data. However vaccine effectiveness is required in the post-authorisation phase. The CHMP took into 
account the difficulties in obtaining such data pre-approval and the plans for post-marketing 
effectiveness studies after vaccine introduction were considered acceptable.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 98/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duration of protection is currently unknown. In infants the antibody levels declined rapidly for the 
PorA and NHBA antigens, i.e. within 6 months of primary vaccination, and within 12 months of booster 
or primary vaccination in toddlers. The antibody titres in infants against fHbp were also shown to 
decline although not as much as the PorA titres. The proportion of subjects with SBA titres to fHbp 
≥1:5 was 50-60% at 12 months after the fourth dose in V72P13E2.  
Data was considered limited in adults and lacking in elderly and risk groups, such as 
immunosuppressed individuals. The applicant put in place pharmacovigilance activities to address the 
missing information which were considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
The data obtained in adolescents were from a Chilean population, but considering that the pre-
vaccination antibody levels to fHbp, NadA and PorA were similar in the Chilean adolescents as in 
European adults, the study results were considered relevant to a European population. The immune 
responses to NHBA in Chilean adults could not be directly compared to European adults, but a high 
proportion of both populations have antibodies to NHBA. The CHMP considered important to obtain 
data in European adolescents. Therefore, the applicant committed to conduct a study on 
nasopharyngeal carriage of N. meningitidis in young adults (V72_29) that would provide serological 
relevant for the use in adolescents.  
Immunological memory has been demonstrated at 12 months of age following a 3-dose priming 
schedule in infants 2, 4, 6 or 2, 3, 4 months of age. Memory has not been demonstrated beyond this 
age group, after any other priming schedule or after a longer time period. Data on antibody 
persistence and immunological memory have not been presented beyond 6 months after the last dose.   
The risk for strain replacement could be lower for a protein based meningococcal vaccine compared 
with the capsular polysaccharide vaccines, as capsular switching is unimportant in this case. The 
potential protective efficacy against other meningococcal strains is currently unknown, however will be 
addressed in the epidemiological surveillance to be conducted post-licensure.  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Injection site reactions were very common and are labelled in the SmPC.  Fever > 38ºC occurs 
commonly with rMenB and rMenB+OMV and more pronounced when co-administrated with routine 
vaccines than with these vaccines alone, i.e. 96% experienced fever after any dose of Bexsero + 
routine vaccines, versus 80% after any dose of routine vaccinations only.   
The safety database is large enough to detect adverse reactions in the frequency of 1/1000 and 
considered adequate for the approval phase of a vaccine.  
Some serious adverse events, e.g. convulsions/seizures – febrile and non-febrile and Kawasaki disease 
were reported in clinical studies. These potential risks will be monitored by enhanced 
pharmacovigilance and post-licensure observational safety studies will be conducted.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
There is insufficient knowledge about immunological and/or autoimmune reactions after administration 
of rMenB and rMenB +OMV NZ or co-administered with routine vaccines. Data in elderly or 
immunosuppressed individuals is missing 
 Pharmacovigilance activities are in place to monitor missing information in these populations. In 
addition statements have been included in the relevant section of the Product Information. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 99/102 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
There is currently no vaccine against group B meningococci licensed in the EU. A vaccine against the 
majority of group B meningococcal strains is considered valuable in areas with high incidence rates. It 
would also be valuable to have a vaccine available in an outbreak situation.  
The demonstrated functional immune responses are considered highly relevant for an estimation of 
efficacy in the absence of efficacy data. The risks of fever (very common), seizures including febrile 
seizures (uncommon) and Kawasaki disease (rare) have been identified but found to be acceptable in 
situations of increased risk of meningococcal disease caused by group B meningococci. 
The remaining limitations in knowledge regarding both benefit (vaccine effectiveness, duration of 
immunity) and risk (Kawasaki disease and other rare events), are addressed in the post-marketing 
activities. However, it is recognised that the feasibility and efficiency of these studies depend on extent 
of uptake of the vaccine. 
Benefit-risk balance 
There is a clear benefit of protection against group B meningococci in areas with high incidence of 
disease. Currently, the functional immune responses as measured with SBA indicate that robust 
immune responses are elicited. The available coverage data suggest that the vaccine will protect 
against the majority (78%) of circulating strains. The benefit is considered relatively small in the 
general EU population, as group B meningococcal disease is uncommon in Europe (3400-4800 cases 
annually). However, there are regions with higher incidence as well as large outbreaks that are difficult 
to control without access to an appropriate vaccine. In these cases the benefit of vaccination would be 
greater. The identified risks are considered small. Guidance to prescribers is provided in the event of 
increased risk of fever when used concomitantly with routine infant vaccine.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The exact beneficial effect of Bexsero will not be possible to conclude until post-marketing efficacy 
studies are available. However, the presented data on functional immune responses indicate that 
vaccination with Bexsero will protect against invasive disease caused by group B meningococci. The 
proposed indication is considered approvable based on the available clinical and epidemiological data.  
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Bexsero for the following indication: “active immunisation of individuals 
from 2 months of age and older against invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria 
meningitidis group B is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 100/102 
 
 
 
 
Official batch release  
In accordance with Article 114 Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken by a 
state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP shall be submitted annually until renewal. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the 
same time.  
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that OMV, protein 961c, protein 287-953 and protein 936-741 contained in the medicinal 
product Bexsero are to be qualified as new active substances in themselves.  
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 101/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan (P/38/2011) and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
In accordance with Article 45(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, significant studies in the agreed 
paediatric investigation plan (P/38/2011) have been completed after the entry into force of that 
Regulation. 
Bexsero 
Assessment report  
Page 102/102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
