EMA/205221/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
 Bexsero 
International non-proprietary name: meningococcal group B vaccine 
(recombinant, component, adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002333/II/0074 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit–risk balance ..................... 3 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 4 
4. EPAR changes .......................................................................................... 4 
5. Introduction ............................................................................................ 6 
6. Clinical efficacy aspects ........................................................................... 7 
6.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted ..................................................................... 7 
6.2. Results .............................................................................................................. 10 
6.3. Discussion ......................................................................................................... 12 
7. Clinical safety aspects ........................................................................... 12 
7.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted ................................................................... 12 
7.2. Results .............................................................................................................. 13 
7.3. Discussion ......................................................................................................... 16 
7.1. Conclusion ......................................................................................................... 16 
8. Changes to the Product Information...................................................... 17 
9. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 17 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, GSK Vaccines S.r.l submitted to the 
European Medicines Agency on 17 December 2018 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I, IIIB and 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Annex A 
Update of section 4.5 of the SmPC in order to include the possibility of concomitant administration with 
the MenACWY vaccine based on final results from study V72_56. This was a phase 3b study assessing the 
safety and immunogenicity of Bexsero administered concomitantly with MenACWY vaccine as compared 
to their individual administration in healthy infants at approximately 3, 5, 7 and 13 months of age. This 
submission constitutes follow-on to procedure EMEA/H/C/002333/P46/027. 
The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
In addition, the Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) took the opportunity to introduce minor editorial 
changes throughout the Product Information and Annex A. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Package 
Leaflet and Annex A. 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit–risk balance 
Bexsero (rMenB+OMV NZ) is a multicomponent meningococcal group B recombinant adsorbed vaccine, 
presented as a single-dose suspension for injection in a pre-filled syringe. The vaccine contains 3 
purified recombinant proteins, Neisserial heparin  binding antigen (NHBA) as fusion protein (also 
referred to as rp287-953), Neisseria  adhesin A (NadA) as single protein (rp961c), factor H binding 
protein (fHbp) as fusion protein (rp936-741), and the outer membrane vesicles (OMV) from the New 
Zealand  Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B strain NZ98/254 containing PorA P1.4 (the 
immunodominant antigen present in the OMV component), along with aluminium hydroxide as adjuvant 
adsorbent. 
On 26 April 2018, in the framework of Article P46 procedure EMEA/H/C/002333/P46/027, the CHMP 
considered that information regarding concomitant administration of rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY 
vaccines should be added to the Product Information. 
To this end, the MAH submitted variation II-74 and proposed to update section 4.5 of the SmPC to 
indicate that rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine can be given concomitantly, at a separate injection site, with 
meningococcal group A, C, W, Y conjugate antigens, either as monovalent or as combination vaccine, as 
well as with any other vaccine antigens already approved for concomitant use during the same visit. 
The CHMP considered the results of clinical study V72_56, which evaluated the immunogenicity and 
safety of concomitant administration of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine and GSK Biological’s meningococcal 
group A, C, W and Y conjugate vaccine, Menveo (MenACWY) in healthy infants at 3, 5, 7 and 13 months 
of age. MenACWY vaccine contains meningococcal serogroups A, C, W and Y oligosaccharides, each 
conjugated to Corynebacterium diphtheriae CRM197 protein carrier. Of note, concomitant administration 
of the rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY vaccines was followed by an immune response non-inferior to that 
of either vaccine administered alone. The study raised no new safety concerns. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
Based on the available evidence, the CHMP was of the view that the proposed updates in section 4.5 of the 
SmPC and the respective section of the Package Leaflet are acceptable. 
The editorial updates of Annex A were considered acceptable. 
The benefit–risk profile of Bexsero remains unchanged. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I, IIIB 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
and 
Annex A 
Update of section 4.5 of the SmPC in order to include the possibility of concomitant administration with 
the MenACWY vaccine based on final results from study V72_56. This was a phase 3b study assessing the 
safety and immunogenicity of Bexsero administered concomitantly with MenACWY vaccine as compared 
to their individual administration in healthy infants at approximately 3, 5, 7 and 13 months of age. This 
submission constitutes follow-on to procedure EMEA/H/C/002333/P46/027. 
The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
In addition, the Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) took the opportunity to introduce minor editorial 
changes throughout the Product Information and Annex A. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Package 
Leaflet and Annex A. 
 is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annexes I, IIIB and Annex A are 
recommended. 
4.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above  
Summary 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion ‘Bexsero-H-C-002333-II-74’ and to ‘Bexsero-H-C-002333-P46-27’. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Introduction 
Bexsero (rMenB+OMV NZ) is a multicomponent meningococcal group B recombinant adsorbed vaccine, 
presented as a single-dose suspension for injection in a pre-filled syringe. The vaccine contains 3 
purified recombinant proteins, Neisserial heparin  binding antigen (NHBA) as fusion protein (also 
referred to as rp287-953), Neisseria  adhesin A (NadA) as single protein (rp961c), factor H binding 
protein (fHbp) as fusion protein (rp936-741), and the outer membrane vesicles (OMV) from the New 
Zealand  Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B strain NZ98/254 containing PorA P1.4 (the 
immunodominant antigen present in the OMV component), along with aluminium hydroxide as adjuvant 
adsorbent. 
The rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine was first registered in the European Union (EU) through  the centralised 
procedure on January 14, 2013 and has received marketing authorization  in 10 additional (non-EU) 
countries: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Israel,  New Zealand, Switzerland, the United 
States (US) and Uruguay. The vaccine is currently  approved in 41 countries worldwide. 
The vaccine is indicated for active immunisation of individuals from 2 months of age and older against 
invasive meningococcal disease caused by N. meningitidis serogroup B. The indicated age range varies 
depending on the country, according to national  recommendations. 
Purpose of the variation 
Immunogenicity and safety data from clinical study V72_56 evaluating concomitant administration of 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine and GSK Biological’s meningococcal group A, C, W and Y conjugate vaccine, 
Menveo (MenACWY) in healthy infants at 3, 5, 7 and 13 months of age are available. MenACWY vaccine 
contains meningococcal serogroups A, C, W and Y oligosaccharides, each conjugated to 
Corynebacterium diphtheriae CRM197 protein carrier. 
The study results have been submitted to the European Medicines Agency as required by Article 46 for 
pediatric studies (EMA/H/C/2333 P46 027). Following assessment, the Rapporteur requested that 
information regarding concomitant administration of rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY vaccines be added 
to section 4.5 of the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The MAH agrees with the request and proposes to update the prescribing information (PI) ‘Interactions’ 
section of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine to indicate that it can be given simultaneously but at a separate 
injection site, with meningococcal group A, C, W, Y conjugate antigens, either as monovalent or as 
combination vaccine, as well as with any other vaccine antigens already approved for concomitant use 
during the same visit. 
Concomitant administration of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine with meningococcal group C CRM conjugate 
vaccine is already approved. To align to country-specific recommendations, which are based on vaccine 
registration status and antigens content and do not specify the protein carrier used for the conjugation 
[Green Book, UK], the MAH proposes to remove the specification of the protein carrier CRM for 
serogroup C and include A, W, and Y antigens to allow concomitant administration with all 4 serogroup 
antigens. Of note, administration of the monovalent meningococcal C vaccine remains a possibility. 
Note that the most current nomenclature, i.e. serogroup W has been used throughout the submission to 
indicate the same as serogroup W-135 of the V72_56 clinical study report (CSR). The nomenclature 
W-135 has been used historically and the number has since been removed as it did not provide any 
additional useful information [Harrison OB 2013]. 
In addition, the MAH proposes minor corrections and/or non-substantive changes made for clarification 
purposes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
6.  Clinical efficacy aspects 
6.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Clinical study supporting the proposed changes of the Prescribing Information 
Clinical study V72_56, was a phase 3b study assessing the safety and immunogenicity of rMenB+OMV 
NZ vaccine when administered concomitantly with MenACWY vaccine as compared to their individual 
administration in healthy infants at approximately 3, 5, 7 and 13 months of age. The study was 
conducted at 7 sites; 3 in Argentina and 4 in Mexico (Table 1). 
This study was designed as an open-label study; therefore, no blinding procedures were used. Subjects 
were to be randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms in a 1:1:1 ratio as follows: 
– 
– 
rMenB+ACWY group: rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine given concomitantly with MenACWY vaccine; 
rMenB group: rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine alone; 
–  MenACWY group: MenACWY vaccine alone. 
Table 1. Overview of clinical study V72_56. 
Study ID 
Study 
(number) 
countries 
Study Design 
Objectives 
V72_56 
(205240)  Mexico 
Argentina 
Phase 3b, open-label, randomised 1:1:1, 
multicenter noninferiority study 
Primary immunogenicity objective: 
Immunological noninferiority of rMenB+OMV 
NZ and MenACWY vaccines when 
concomitantly administered compared to 
either alone as measured by the ratio of 
human serum bactericidal assay (hSBA) 
geometric mean titers (GMTs) against each of 
the serogroup B indicator strains (for 
rMenB+OMV NZ) and serogroups A, C, Wand Y 
(for MenACWY) at 1 month after the 4th 
vaccination. 
Secondary immunogenicity objectives: 
Immune response of rMenB+OMV NZ and 
MenACWY vaccines (1 month after the 4th 
vaccination, 1 month after the 3rd vaccination 
and 
6 months after the 3rd vaccination) when 
concomitantly administered compared to 
either alone. 
Secondary safety objectives: 
Safety and tolerability of rMenB+OMV NZ and 
MenACWY vaccines when concomitantly 
administered, compared to either alone. 
Population 
(age) 
Schedule of 
vaccination 
Healthy infants 
(3 months of 
age at 
enrolment) 
4 doses at 
3, 5, 7 and 13 
months of age 
Study groups 
rMenB+ACWY: 
rMenB+OMV 
NZ 
and MenACWY 
vaccines given 
concomitantly 
rMenB: 
rMenB+OMV 
NZ 
vaccine given 
alone 
MenACWY: 
MenACWY 
vaccine 
given alone 
Number of subjects 
FAS for 
immuno-
genicityb 
Overall 
Safety set 
199 
249 
PPS for 
immuno-
genicitya 
161 
163 
201 
249 
156 
(Total: 
480) 
204 
(Total: 
604) 
246 
(Total: 
744) 
Source: CSR V72_56 Table 11.1-1 and Table 12.1-1 PPS = Per-protocol set, FAS = Full analysis set. 
Note: immunogenicity sets shown in the table are 1 month post 4th vaccination. 
a PPS primary and secondary immunogenicity objectives; b FAS secondary immunogenicity objectives. 
The study was performed according to the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and in 
compliance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the applicable regulatory requirements for the countries 
in which it was conducted, with the exception of the GCP compliance issue described below. 
A serious GCP compliance issue occurred during the study that led to exclusion of 1 study center in 
Mexico, which enrolled 38 subjects, from the analysis set and resulted in the decision to terminate the 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
participation of the investigator to this study. Data collected from this center were not used for any 
analysis of study data with the exception of the safety data which were included in the V72_56 CSR. 
Overview of study design 
The study included 4 study vaccinations (days 1, 61, 121 and 301) and comprised 6 clinical visits (days 
1, 61, 121, 151, 301, and 331), 8 reminder calls (2 and 4 days after each vaccination visit) and 2 safety 
calls (days 201 and 251, Table 2). 
Table 2. Overview of study design of clinical study V72_56. 
Routine vaccines, including diphtheria, tetanus and whole-cell (or acellular) pertussis (DTwP/DTaP), were 
to be administered at 2, 4, 6 and 12 months of age, intercalated to the study vaccinations and according 
to local infant vaccination schedules. The routine infant’s vaccinations schedule was to be implemented as 
per local recommendation during the trial. However, a 14-day window period before and after 
experimental treatment had to be elapsed between the administration of routine vaccine(s) and the 
administration of clinical study vaccines in order to minimize any concomitant reactogenicity from 
administration of routine vaccines. 
Methods used to evaluate immunogenicity 
A total of 4 blood samples were to be drawn: before 1st vaccination, 1 month after the 3rd vaccination 
(day 151), before (day 301) and 1 month after (day 331) the 4th vaccination from all enrolled subjects 
for immunogenicity evaluation (Table 2). 
This study used the serum bactericidal activity (SBA) as a serological surrogate marker for protection to 
measure the immunogenicity of the study vaccines. SBA is a functional measure of the ability of 
antibodies, in conjunction with complement, to kill meningococci, and is widely used and generally 
recognized as the serological correlate of protection in clinical studies of meningococcal vaccines [Green 
Book (UK), Holst J 2009]. The SBA using human plasma as the source of exogenous complement (hSBA) 
was to be used to measure the induction of antibodies directed against N. meningitidis serogroups A, B, 
C, Wand Y following vaccination with rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY vaccines. For secondary endpoints, 
assay cut-offs of hSBA titers ≥5 and ≥8 against each of the serogroup B indicator strains, and hSBA titers 
≥4 and ≥8 against each of the serogroups A, C, W and Y were used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
Statistical criteria for evaluating immunogenicity 
Immunogenicity endpoints evaluated 
Primary immunogenicity endpoints 
The hSBA geometric mean titers (GMTs) against each of the serogroup B indicator strains (for 
rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine) and serogroups A, C, W and Y (for MenACWY vaccine) at 1 month after the 4th 
vaccination, and corresponding between-group ratios of GMTs for rMenB+ACWY versus rMenB 
(serogroup B indicator strains), and rMenB+ACWY versus MenACWY (serogroups A, C, W and Y). 
Noninferiority was to be concluded if, at 1 month following the 4th vaccination (day 331), the lower limits 
(LL) of the 2-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the between- group ratios of GMTs (rMenB+ACWY 
versus rMenB and rMenB+ACWY versus MenACWY) were >0.5 for all serogroup B indicator strains and all 
serogroups A, C, W and Y. Noninferiority was only to be concluded if all 8 predefined noninferiority criteria 
were met, i.e., all 8 noninferiority hypotheses were considered co-primary. 
Secondary immunogenicity endpoints 
The immune response to rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine at all sampling timepoints when administered alone and 
concomitantly with MenACWY vaccine (rMenB+ACWY versus rMenB) was assessed by: 
–  hSBA GMTs against each of the serogroup B indicator strains; 
– 
the percentage of subjects with hSBA titers ≥5 and ≥8 against each of the serogroup B indicator 
strains. 
The immune response to MenACWY vaccine at all sampling timepoints when administered alone and 
concomitantly with rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine (rMenB+ACWY versus MenACWY) was assessed by: 
–  hSBA GMTs against each of the serogroups A, C, Wand Y; 
– 
the percentage of subjects with hSBA titers ≥4 and ≥8 against each of the serogroups A, C, W and 
Y. 
Additionally, the following were assessed for each of the serogroup B strains and each of the serogroups 
A, C, W and Y: 
–  within-subject geometric mean ratios were calculated for GMTs at 1 month after 4th vaccination 
(day 331) versus pre 4th vaccination (day 301), 
– 
the percentage of subjects with 4-fold increases in hSBA titers at 1 month after 4th vaccination 
(day 331) versus pre 4th vaccination (day 301). 
Please note, for serogroup B indicator strains, 4-fold increase in titer was defined as post 4th vaccination 
titer ≥8 (if pre 4th vaccination titer was <2) or post 4th vaccination titer ≥ 4 times pre 4th vaccination titer 
(if pre 4th vaccination titer was ≥2). For serogroups A, C, W-135, and Y, 4-fold increase in titers was 
defined as post 4th vaccination titer ≥16 (if pre 4th vaccination titer was <4) or post 4th vaccination titer 
≥ 4 times pre 4th vaccination titer (if pre 4th vaccination titer was ≥4). 
Data sets analysed 
The primary immunogenicity analyses were based on the per-protocol set (PPS) and the secondary 
immunogenicity analyses on the full analysis set (FAS). 
FAS immunogenicity set: This analysis set involved all enrolled subjects who were randomized, received 
at least 1 study vaccination and provided evaluable immunogenicity data at the respective vaccination 
visit. 
PPS immunogenicity set: This was the primary analysis set for the primary immunogenicity objective of 
this study (i.e., noninferiority). It was a subset of the FAS 1 month post 4th vaccination which included all 
subjects who: 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
– 
correctly received the vaccine (i.e., received the vaccine to which the subjects was randomised 
and at the scheduled time points); 
–  had no reportable protocol deviations leading to exclusion, as defined prior to analysis; 
–  were not excluded due to other reasons defined prior to analysis. 
Population evaluated 
Healthy infants aged 3 months whose parents/legal guardians had given written informed consent and 
were available for all the visits scheduled in the study were enrolled. 
Subjects with previous meningococcal vaccination, suspected disease or contact with N. meningitidis 
were not enrolled. Informed consent was to be obtained prior to any study- related procedures and 
subjects were enrolled after their eligibility for participation was confirmed by the investigator. 
6.2.  Results 
Efficacy Results 
The demographic and baseline characteristics were balanced across all study groups. The mean age of the 
subjects enrolled into the study was 102.7±10.77 days overall. Most of the subjects (93%) were 
categorized under the race category of ‘Other’ (i.e., subjects who were not white, American Indian or 
Alaska native, Asian, Black or African American, native Hawaiian or other pacific islander). Only a few 
subjects (7–8%) were categorised as ‘White’. 
Among 750 enrolled subjects in the study, 744 subjects received a study vaccination. Across groups, 
63%-65% of enrolled subjects were included in the PPS analysis for primary objectives. Overall, 
79%-86% of enrolled subjects were included in the different FAS populations for secondary objectives, 
which were defined based on the different study visits (Table 3). 
Table 3. Number of subjects planned and analysed for immunogenicity in clinical study 
V72_56. 
Primary objective: immunological noninferiority 
The primary objective of the study was met as the immune responses to rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY 
vaccines when concomitantly administered (rMenB+ACWY) were noninferior to those elicited by either 
vaccine administered alone. At 1 month post 4th vaccination (day 331), the LLs of the 2-sided 95% CIs 
for the between-group ratios of GMTs (rMenB+ACWY versus rMenB, and rMenB+ACWY versus MenACWY) 
were >0.5, the predefined noninferiority margin, for all serogroup B indicator strains and all serogroups 
A, C, W and Y (Table 4). 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Clinical study V72_56: hSBA geometric mean titers and vaccine group ratios against 
N. meningitidis serogroup B strains (for rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine) and serogroups A, C, W and 
Y (for MenACWY vaccine) at 1 month post 4th vaccination – Per-Protocol Set. 
Secondary objectives: rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine immune response 
The immune response following administration of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine were similar between the 
rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups post 3rd and 4th vaccination: 
–  At 1 month post 3rd vaccination (day 151), 96%-100% of subjects achieved hSBA titers ≥5 
against serogroup B strains H44/76, 5/99 and NZ98/254, and 68%-70% of subjects for strain 
M10713 across groups; 
–  At 1 month post 4th vaccination (day 331), 97%-100% of subjects achieved hSBA titers ≥5 
against serogroup strains H44/76, 5/99 and NZ98/254, and 87% of subjects for strain M10713 
across groups. 
The hSBA GMTs increased across all strains in both groups post 3rd and 4th rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination 
compared to pre 3rd and 4th vaccination, respectively, with similar titers in the rMenB+ACWY group 
compared with those in rMenB group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
At 1 month post 4th vaccination, the percentages of subjects with 4-fold increase in titers over pre 4th 
vaccination ranged from 92%-95% for strains H44/76 and 5/99; from 79–81 % for strain NZ98/254 and 
from 58–60 % for strain M10713, in rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups. 
Secondary objectives: MenACWY vaccine immune response 
The immune responses following administration of MenACWY vaccine were slightly numerically higher or 
similar in the rMenB+ACWY group compared with those in the MenACWY group post 3rd and 4th 
vaccination. 
At 1 month post 3rd vaccination (day 151) as well as at 1 month post 4th vaccination (day 331), 
96%-100% of subjects in groups rMenB+ACWY and MenACWY achieved hSBA titers ≥8 across serogroups 
A, C, W and Y. 
The hSBA GMTs increased across all serogroups in both groups post 3rd and 4th MenACWY vaccination 
compared to pre 3rd and 4th vaccination, respectively, with slightly numerically higher (for serogroup A) 
or similar (for serogroups C, W and Y) titers in the rMenB+ACWY group compared with those in MenACWY 
group. 
At 1 month post 4th MenACWY vaccination, the percentages of subjects with at least 4- fold increase in 
titers ranged from 71–90 % in both groups against all serogroups, A, C, W and Y. 
6.3.  Discussion 
Of note, the submitted study has been assessed in a previous submission (see Chapter 2.). 
The primary objective of the study was met as at 1 month post 4th vaccination, the LLs of the 2-sided 95 
% CI for the between-group ratios of GMTs (rMenB+ACWY versus rMenB, and rMenB+ACWY versus 
MenACWY) were >0.5 for all serogroup B indicator strains and all serogroups A, C, W and Y. 
An immune response was observed, in terms of percentages of subjects achieving titers ≥5 and ≥8 
(rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine) / ≥8 and ≥4 (MenACWY vaccine), 4-fold increase in titers (post 4th over pre 4th 
vaccination), and increased hSBA GMTs after the 3rd and 4th vaccination of either rMenB+OMV NZ or 
MenACWY vaccines administered alone or either concomitantly. The immune response following 
administration of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine was similar between the rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups. The 
immune response following administration of MenACWY vaccine was slightly numerically higher (for 
serogroup A) or similar (for serogroups C, Wand Y) in the rMenB+ACWY group compared with the 
MenACWY group. 
Taken together, the results of clinical study V72_56 support the concomitant administration of the 
rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY vaccines, as a robust immune response is seen following concomitant 
administration which is noninferior to that of either vaccine administered alone. 
7.  Clinical safety aspects 
7.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Subjects were observed at the clinical site for at least 30 minutes after each vaccination for any 
immediate reactions. Each subject’s parent/legal guardian were instructed to complete a diary card to 
describe (i) solicited local and systemic AEs occurring during the day of each vaccination and for the 
following 6 days (from day 1 to day 7); (ii) all medications (excluding food supplements) taken during the 
day of each vaccination and for the following 6 days (from day 1 to day 7); (iii) any unsolicited AEs and 
related medications occurring during the day of each vaccination and for the following 6 days, including 
any Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), AEs leading to withdrawal and medically attended AEs. Only selected 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
safety measures (SAEs, AEs leading to withdrawal and medically attended AEs) and related medications 
were to be collected throughout the study period i.e. from first vaccination to study termination. 
Routine vaccinations received during the study were also to be captured in the diary card. 
Methods used to evaluate safety 
Safety endpoints evaluated 
The safety objective of the study was to assess the safety and tolerability of rMenB+OMV NZ and 
MenACWY vaccines when concomitantly administered, compared to either vaccine alone, in healthy 
infants at 3, 5, 7 and 13 months of age. 
The term “reactogenicity” refers to selected signs and symptoms (‘adverse events’) occurring in the hours 
and days following a vaccination. 
The following safety endpoints were assessed: 
–  The frequencies and percentages of subjects with solicited local (injection site tenderness, 
injection site erythema, swelling, and induration) and systemic (change in eating habits, 
sleepiness, persistent crying, vomiting, diarrhea, irritability, rash) AEs, as well as fever (defined 
as body temperature ≥38°C) and use of medication to treat and or prevent fever and/or pain 
during the 7 days (including the day of vaccination) following vaccination visits at days 1, 61, 121, 
and 301 for all vaccine groups; 
–  The frequencies and percentages of subjects with any other (unsolicited) AEs, AEs leading to 
withdrawal and medically attended AEs during the 7 days (including the day of vaccination) 
following vaccination visits at days 1, 61, 121, and 301 for all vaccine groups; 
–  The frequencies and percentages of subjects with SAEs, AEs leading to withdrawal and medically 
attended AEs throughout the whole study period. 
Data sets analysed 
Safety analyses were performed on the safety set: 
Solicited safety set: All subjects in the Exposed Set (all subjects who receive a study vaccination) with 
solicited AE data for each of the 4 vaccinations. 
Unsolicited safety set: All exposed subjects with unsolicited AE data. 
Overall safety set: All subjects who were in the solicited safety set and/or in the unsolicited safety set. 
7.2.  Results 
A total of 750 subjects were enrolled into clinical study V72_56, of which 744 subjects (99%) were 
exposed to at least 1 dose of study vaccine. Of the 744 exposed subjects included in the overall safety set 
and unsolicited safety set, 709 were included in the solicited AE set (6 hour - Day 7 after vaccination) after 
any vaccination (Table 5). 
Overall 498 subjects received at least 1 dose of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine and 495 subjects received at 
least 1 dose of MenACWY vaccine. 
Solicited AEs 
Any solicited AEs (6 hours through Day 7) was reported in 54%-87% of subjects over the 4 vaccinations 
across vaccine groups. The percentages of subjects with solicited local and systemic AEs were higher in 
the rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups than those in MenACWY group (Table 6). No increase in solicited 
local and systemic AEs was observed after the concomitant administration of rMenB+OMV NZ and 
MenACWY vaccines compared with administration of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine alone, which tends to be 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
more reactogenic than MenACWY vaccine alone, and there was no increase in reactogenicity with the 
subsequent doses (Table 6). 
Solicited local AEs were reported in 37%-79% of subjects over the 4 vaccinations across vaccination 
groups (Table 6). Tenderness was the most common solicited local AE reported after each vaccination 
with the incidence being higher in rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups (60–70 % of subjects) compared with 
the MenACWY group (27–31 % of subjects, Module 2.7.4, Table 3). Most of the reported solicited local 
AEs after either dose of vaccine were mild to moderate in intensity with onset from 6 hours to Day 3 after 
vaccination. Induration and swelling were the most frequently reported reactions ongoing after 7 days of 
the 4 vaccinations and were more frequently reported in rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups than in the 
MenACWY group. Severe tenderness was the most commonly reported severe solicited local AE reported 
after each vaccination with the incidence being higher in rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups (6–15% of 
subjects) compared with the MenACWY group (<1–1 % of subjects). 
Solicited systemic AEs were reported in 47%-76% of subjects over the 4 vaccinations across vaccine 
groups (Table 6). The most common solicited systemic AEs reported after each vaccination across the 
groups were persistent crying and irritability. Incidence of fever (body temperature ≥38 °C) was higher in 
rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups (17–26 % of subjects) compared with the MenACWY group (4–11 % of 
subjects) and mostly reported on Day 1, while incidence of severe fever (body temperature ≥40 °C) was 
low; reported by 0–1 % of subjects overall. 
Table 5. Number of subjects planned and analysed for safety in clinical study V72_56. 
Table 6. Clinical study V72_56: Numbers (%) of subjects with at least 1 solicited local and 
systemic adverse event reported from 6 hours through Day 7 after each vaccination – 
Solicited Safety Set. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Unsolicited AEs 
Unsolicited AEs were reported by a total of 74%-79% of subjects across groups throughout the study, 
with 11%-41% of subjects experiencing unsolicited AEs considered at least possibly related to study 
vaccination (Table 7). The most commonly affected system organ class (SOC) was ‘infections and 
infestations’ (64%-71%, across groups) while the most common unsolicited AEs by preferred term (PT) 
were nasopharyngitis (32–35%) and viral upper respiratory tract infection (29–35 %). Most of the 
unsolicited AEs were mild to moderate in intensity and most of them resolved before study termination. 
Table 7. Clinical study V72_56: Numbers (%) of subjects reporting unsolicited adverse events 
during the whole study period after any vaccination – Unsolicited Safety Set. 
Serious adverse events 
SAEs were reported by a total of 2–5 % of subjects across groups throughout the study (Table 7). One 
subject in the rMenB group had an SAE (anemia at Day 35 after 1st vaccination, leading to hospitalisation 
which recovered after 175 days) that was considered to be at least possibly related to study vaccination 
by the investigator. 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Fatal events 
No deaths were reported in the study (Table 7). 
Other significant adverse events 
AEs requiring medical attention were reported by 71%-76% of subjects and AEs leading to dose 
reduction, interruption or delay in vaccination were reported by 4%-7% of subjects during the study 
(Table 7). A total of 2 subjects in the rMenB group (anemia which was an SAE, described above, and 
pyrexia) and 1 subject in the MenACWY group (dermatitis atopic) had AEs leading to premature 
withdrawal from the study. 
7.3.  Discussion 
Of note, the submitted study has been assessed in a previous submission (see Chapter 2.). 
The vaccines were generally well tolerated although, as expected, the reactogenicity was very common 
and higher in the rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups than in MenACWY group, as the rMenB+OMV NZ 
vaccine is known to be more reactogenic than the MenACWY vaccine. 
Tenderness was the most common solicited local AE reported after each vaccination across study groups, 
with the incidence being higher after rMenB+OMV NZ vaccination compared to MenACWY vaccination 
both when given alone and concomitantly. Most of the reported solicited local AEs after any dose of 
vaccine were mild to moderate in intensity with onset 6 hours to day 3 after vaccination. 
The most common solicited systemic AEs reported were persistent crying and irritability. Overall, no 
increase in solicited local and systemic AEs was observed after the concomitant administration of 
MenACWY and rMenB+OMV NZ vaccines compared with administration of rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine alone, 
which has a higher reactogenicity than MenACWY vaccine alone. Additionally, there was no increase in 
reactogenicity with the subsequent doses. 
The overall incidence of unsolicited AEs reported was similar across the groups. The most commonly 
affected SOCs were ‘infections and infestations’ while the most common unsolicited AEs by PT were 
nasopharyngitis and viral upper respiratory tract infection. SAEs were reported by 2–5 % of subjects. No 
death was reported in the study. Most of the unsolicited AEs were mild to moderate in intensity, and most 
of them resolved before study termination. 
No new clinical concerns were raised with respect to the safety data available in this study and the safety 
data included in the PI of each individual vaccine. 
7.1.  Conclusion 
In conclusion, the study demonstrated the non-inferiority of combined rMenB+MenACWY vaccine to 
either rMenB or MenACWY administered alone. This is shown by lower limits of the 2-sided 95 % CIs of > 
0.5 for the between ratios of GMTs (rMenB+ACWY vs. rMenB, and rMenB+ACWY vs. MenACWY) after the 
4th vaccination for all serogroup B indicator strains and all serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y. 
When comparing the vaccine groups rMenB+ACWY and rMenB, equally strong and potent 
immunogenicity against all MenB strains could be demonstrated as shown by the high proportion of 
subjects reaching hSBA GMTs ≥ 5 in both vaccine groups after the 4th vaccination. 
Acceptable immune responses against the Men-groups A, C, W and Y were reached with the combined 
vaccine, demonstrated by strong increases of hSBA GMTs ≥8 across all strains already after the 3rd 
vaccination (96–100 % for rMenB+ACWY) and by a comparable proportion of individuals showing an at 
least 4-fold increase of titers compared to pre-4th vaccination (71–90 % range for both vaccine groups; 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
equal or higher proportions in the combined vaccine setup compared to MenACWY given alone), besides 
the fulfilment of the primary endpoint. 
The safety profile is aligned with what has been reported previously. The vaccines were generally well 
tolerated but the reactogenicity was higher in the rMenB+ACWY and rMenB groups than in MenACWY 
group, as the rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine is known to be more reactogenic than the MenACWY vaccine. 
Overall, no new safety concerns were raised. 
It can be concluded that the data adequately supports the proposed change, which is acceptable. The 
benefit–risk profile for rMenB+OMV NZ remains favorable following the review of the available data. 
8.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a result of this variation, section 4.5 of the SmPC is updated to include information on concomitant 
administration of rMenB+OMV NZ and MenACWY vaccines. The Package Leaflet (PL) is updated 
accordingly. 
Please refer to Attachment 1 which includes all agreed changes to the Product Information. 
9.  Request for supplementary information 
N/A 
Assessment report  
EMA/205221/2019  
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
