EMA/776857/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005304 Corr.1 
Beyfortus (nirsevimab) 
An overview of Beyfortus and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Beyfortus and what is it used for? 
Beyfortus is a medicine used to prevent serious lower respiratory tract (lung) disease caused by 
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in newborns and children during their first RSV season.  
Beyfortus contains the active substance nirsevimab. 
How is Beyfortus used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Beyfortus is given as a single injection into the thigh muscle. It is given once before the RSV season 
starts or at birth for infants born during the RSV season. The recommended dose is 50 mg for children 
weighing less than 5 kg and 100 mg for children weighing 5 kg or more.  
For more information about using Beyfortus, see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare 
provider. 
How does Beyfortus work? 
The active substance in Beyfortus, nirsevimab, is a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is a 
type of protein that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure (called an 
antigen). Nirsevimab attaches to a protein called ‘F protein’ on the surface of RSV. When nirsevimab is 
attached to this protein, the virus becomes unable to enter the body’s cells, especially those in the 
lungs. This helps to prevent RSV infection. 
What benefits of Beyfortus have been shown in studies? 
Beyfortus was shown to be effective at reducing lower respiratory tract disease caused by RSV in three 
main studies. 
One study compared Beyfortus with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 1,490 healthy children born 
prematurely and at term (at 35 weeks gestation or more). After receiving Beyfortus during their first 
1 Correction of percentage in section “what benefits of Beyfortus have been shown in studies?”: 2.6 % has been amended 
to 5% (25 out of 496) 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
RSV season, 1.2% of children (12 out of 994) developed RSV-induced lung disease that required 
medical attention compared with 5% (25 out of 496) in the placebo group. 
Similar results were seen in a second study comparing Beyfortus with placebo in 1,453 children born 
five or more weeks prematurely (between 29 and 35 weeks gestation). After receiving Beyfortus 
during their first RSV season, 2.6% of children (25 out of 969) developed RSV-induced lung disease 
that required medical attention compared with 9.5% (46 out of 484) in the placebo group. 
A third study compared Beyfortus with palivizumab (another medicine to prevent RSV-induced lung 
disease) in children who were either born prematurely, or born at full term but had heart or lung 
disease which put them at risk of RSV-induced lung disease. After receiving Beyfortus, 4 children (out 
of 616) developed RSV-induced lung disease that required medical attention compared with 3 children 
(out of 309) in the group who had palivizumab. 
What are the risks associated with Beyfortus? 
The most common side effects with Beyfortus (which may affect up to 1 in 100 people) are rash 
occurring within 14 days after injection, and fever and injection site reactions occurring within 7 days 
after injection.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Beyfortus, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Beyfortus authorised in the EU? 
Beyfortus was shown to be effective at preventing RSV-induced lung disease that required medical 
attention. In terms of safety, its side effects are considered manageable and in line with what can be 
expected of this class of medicines. The European Medicines Agency decided that Beyfortus’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Beyfortus? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Beyfortus have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Beyfortus are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Beyfortus are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Beyfortus 
Beyfortus received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 October 2022. 
Further information on Beyfortus can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/beyfortus  
Beyfortus (nirsevimab)  
EMA/776857/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
