EMA/780505/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004449 
Biktarvy (bictegravir / emtricitabine / tenofovir 
alafenamide) 
An overview of Biktarvy and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Biktarvy and what is it used for? 
Biktarvy is an antiviral medicine used to treat adults and children from 2 years of age and weighing at 
least 14 kg infected with human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
Biktarvy contains the active substances bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide. It is only 
used in patients where the virus has not developed resistance to a class of HIV medicines called 
integrase inhibitors or to tenofovir or emtricitabine. 
How is Biktarvy used? 
Biktarvy can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the management of HIV infection.  
Biktarvy is available as tablets to be taken by mouth once daily, containing either 50 mg bictegravir, 
200 mg emtricitabine and 25 mg tenofovir alafenamide or 30 mg bictegravir, 120 mg emtricitabine and 
15 mg tenofovir alafenamide. The recommended dose depends on the patient’s weight. For more 
information about using Biktarvy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Biktarvy work? 
Biktarvy contains three active substances which work in different ways against HIV: 
• 
• 
bictegravir is a type of antiviral agent called an ‘integrase inhibitor’. It blocks an enzyme called 
integrase that is needed by the HIV virus to make new copies of itself in the body.  
emtricitabine is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), which means that it blocks the 
activity of reverse transcriptase, another enzyme of the virus that allows it to reproduce itself. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
• 
tenofovir alafenamide is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active 
substance tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is another type of NRTI and it works in the same way as 
emtricitabine. 
Biktarvy does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it can hold off damage to the immune system and 
the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Biktarvy have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Biktarvy in the treatment of HIV infection were investigated in five main studies.  
Two studies involved adults infected with HIV-1 who had not been treated previously, and looked at 
the numbers whose viral load (the amount of HIV-1 in the blood) was reduced to less than 50 copies 
per ml after 48 weeks of treatment. In the first study, Biktarvy was compared with another antiviral 
medicine containing abacavir, dolutegravir and lamivudine in 629 patients. Overall, 92% (290 out of 
314) of patients taking Biktarvy achieved viral load reduction, compared with 93% (293 out of 315) of 
patients who achieved it with the comparator. The second study compared Biktarvy with dolutegravir 
plus emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide in 645 patients: 89% (286 out of 320) of patients taking 
Biktarvy achieved satisfactory viral load reduction, compared with 93% (302 out of 325) of patients on 
the comparator. 
Two other studies involved previously treated patients in whom the viral load was already lower than 
50 copies per ml, and looked at whether it increased above this level 48 weeks after patients were 
switched from their previous HIV treatment to Biktarvy. In one study, the percentage of patients with 
viral load greater than or equal to 50 copies/ml was 1% (3 out of 282) of patients who switched to 
Biktarvy, compared with 0.5% (1 out of 281) of patients who stayed on their previous treatment 
(dolutegravir, abacavir, lamivudine). In the second study, the viral load went above the threshold in 
2% (5 out of 290) of patients switched to Biktarvy, and in 2% (5 out of 287) of patients who stayed on 
their previous treatment (‘boosted’ atazanavir or darunavir plus either emtricitabine/tenofovir or 
abacavir/lamivudine). 
An additional study involved children above 2 years of age and weighing more than 14 kg. The viral 
load was already lower than 50 copies per ml, and the study looked at whether it increased above this 
level after patients were switched from their previous HIV treatment to Biktarvy. After 48 weeks of 
treatment with Biktarvy, over 90% of patients maintained the low viral load. Based on additional data 
on the way the medicine is distributed in the body, Biktarvy is expected to be as effective in children 
as it is in adults. 
What are the risks associated with Biktarvy? 
The most common side effects with Biktarvy (which may affect around 1 in 20 people) are headache, 
diarrhoea and nausea (feeling sick). For the full list of side effects of Biktarvy, see the package leaflet. 
Biktarvy must not be used together with rifampicin (an antibiotic) or with St. John’s wort (a herbal 
medicine used for treating depression). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Biktarvy authorised in the EU? 
Biktarvy was shown to be as effective as comparator antiviral medicines in adults, and is expected to 
be equally effective in children. Side effects were similar to those of medicines of the same class. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Biktarvy’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Biktarvy (bictegravir / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide)  
EMA/780505/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Biktarvy? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Biktarvy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Biktarvy are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Biktarvy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Biktarvy 
Biktarvy received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 June 2018. 
Further information on Biktarvy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/biktarvy   
This overview was last updated in 10-2022. 
Biktarvy (bictegravir / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide)  
EMA/780505/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
