PART VI: 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR BIKTARVY 
(Bictegravir/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Alafenamide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Biktarvy. The RMP details important 
risks of Biktarvy, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Biktarvy’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Biktarvy’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Biktarvy should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Biktarvy should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Biktarvy’s 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What Is It Used For 
Biktarvy is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in 
adults and pediatric patients at least 2 years of age and weighing at least 14 kg without present or 
past evidence of viral resistance to the integrase inhibitor class, emtricitabine or tenofovir. 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains bictegravir (BIC; B), emtricitabine (FTC; F) and 
tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) (B/F/TAF) as the active substances and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Biktarvy’s benefits can be found in Biktarvy’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/biktarvy. 
II. 
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Biktarvy, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Biktarvy’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Biktarvy is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Biktarvy are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Biktarvy. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table Part VI.1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks 
None  
Missing Information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Long term safety in children aged between ≥ 2 and < 6 years 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table Part VI.2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Missing information 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
See Section 1.2.3 of this summary for an overview of the postauthorization 
development plan. 
Missing information 
Long term safety in children aged between ≥ 2 and < 6 years 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Ongoing study GS-US-380-1474 (Cohort 3) to address long term safety of B/F/TAF in 
virologically suppressed children ≥ 2 years of age weighing ≥ 14 kg to < 25 kg. 
 
 
 
II.C. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Biktarvy. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
Table Part VI.3. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
Short Study Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy 
Registry (APR) 
To collect information on the risk of birth defects with antiretroviral drugs, 
including Biktarvy, to which pregnant women are exposed. 
GS-US-380-1474 (Cohort 3) 
To evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability and antiviral activity of 
the low dose B/F/TAF tablet through Week 48 in HIV-1 infected, virologically 
suppressed children ≥ 2 years of age weighing ≥ 14 kg to < 25 kg. 
 
 
 
 
