EMA/151429/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006058 
Bimervax (COVID-19 Vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted)) 
An overview of Bimervax and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Bimervax and what is it used for? 
Bimervax is a vaccine for preventing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in people aged 16 years 
and older. It can be used as a booster in people who have previously received an mRNA COVID-19 
vaccine.  
Bimervax contains a protein produced in the laboratory that consists of part of the SARS-CoV-2 spike 
protein from the Alpha and Beta virus variants.  
How is Bimervax used? 
Bimervax is given as an injection, usually in the muscle of the upper arm. It is given as a booster at 
least 6 months after a previous mRNA COVID-19 vaccine.  
Arrangements for the supply of the vaccine will be the responsibility of national authorities.  
For more information about using Bimervax, see the package leaflet or consult a healthcare 
professional. 
How does Bimervax work? 
Bimervax works by preparing the body to defend itself against COVID-19. The vaccine contains a 
protein produced in the laboratory that consists of part of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein from the 
Alpha and Beta virus variants. It also contains an ‘adjuvant’, a substance to help strengthen the 
immune response to the vaccine.  
When a person is given the vaccine, their immune system will identify the combined protein as foreign 
and produce natural defences — antibodies and T cells — against it. If, later on, the vaccinated person 
comes into contact with SARS-CoV-2, the immune system will recognise the spike protein on the virus 
and be prepared to attack it. The antibodies and immune cells can protect against COVID-19 by 
working together to kill the virus, prevent its entry into the body’s cells and destroy infected cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Bimervax have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Bimervax were assessed in an immunobridging study, which compared the immune 
response induced by this new vaccine with that induced by the authorised mRNA vaccine Comirnaty, 
which targets the original (Wuhan) SARS-CoV-2 spike protein.  
The study involved 765 adults who had previously completed primary vaccination with 2 doses of 
Comirnaty and who were subsequently given a booster dose of either Bimervax or Comirnaty. Although 
Bimervax triggered the production of lower levels of antibodies against the original strain of 
SARS-CoV-2 than Comirnaty, it led to higher levels of antibodies against the Beta and Omicron 
variants and comparable levels against the Delta variant. 
Supportive data were provided from an ongoing study that included 36 adolescents aged 16 to 17 
years old, with immune response data available for 11 of them. This study found that Bimervax given 
as a booster produced an adequate immune response in these adolescents, with antibody production 
comparable to that seen in adults who received Bimervax. 
Can children be vaccinated with Bimervax?  
Currently, Bimervax is not recommended for people below 16 years of age. EMA has agreed with the 
company on a plan to assess the vaccine in children at a later stage. 
Can immunocompromised people be vaccinated with Bimervax? 
Bimervax has not been studied in immunocompromised people (people with weakened immune 
systems). Although immunocompromised people may not respond as well to the vaccine, there are no 
particular safety concerns. Immunocompromised people can still be vaccinated as they may be at 
higher risk from COVID-19. 
Can pregnant or breast-feeding women be vaccinated with Bimervax?  
Animal studies do not show any harmful effects in pregnancy; however, no data are available yet on 
the use of Bimervax during pregnancy.  
The decision on whether to use the vaccine in pregnant women should be made in close consultation 
with a healthcare professional after considering the benefits and risks.  
Although there are no studies on breast-feeding, no risk for breast-feeding is expected. 
Can people with allergies be vaccinated with Bimervax? 
People who already know they have an allergy to one of the components of the vaccine listed in section 
6 of the package leaflet should not receive the vaccine.  
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) may occur in people receiving the vaccine. Therefore, as for all 
vaccines, Bimervax should be given under close medical supervision, with the appropriate medical 
treatment available. 
How well does Bimervax work for people of different ethnicities and 
genders? 
The immune response triggered by the vaccine in the main study was maintained across genders. 
There is no reason to suggest that the immune response induced by Bimervax will vary across 
ethnicities. 
Bimervax (COVID-19 Vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted))  
EMA/151429/2023 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Bimervax? 
The most common side effects with Bimervax (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are pain at 
the injection site, headache, tiredness and muscle pain.  
Lymphadenopathy (enlarged lymph nodes), diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea (feeling sick), fever, pain in 
the armpits and reddening, hardness or swelling at the injection site may affect less than 1 in 10 
people.  
Insomnia (difficulty sleeping), dizziness, sleepiness, odynophagia (painful swallowing), abdominal pain, 
itching, joint pain, weakness, chills, feeling generally unwell and itching and sensitivity at the injection 
site may affect less than 1 in 100 people.  
Paraesthesia (unusual feeling in the skin, such as tingling or a crawling feeling), hypoaesthesia 
(reduced sensation to touch, pain and temperature), rash, itchy rash, cold sweats, erythema 
(reddening of the skin), back pain and injection site bruising may affect less than 1 in 1000 people.  
One case of pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the heart) was seen in the clinical 
studies. 
Allergic reactions may occur with Bimervax. As for all vaccines, Bimervax should be given under close 
supervision with appropriate medical treatment available. 
Why is Bimervax authorised in the EU? 
Based on data comparing the immune response triggered by Bimervax with that triggered by an 
authorised mRNA COVID-19 vaccine, EMA concluded that Bimervax is expected to be at least as 
effective as the comparator at restoring protection against COVID-19 in people aged 16 years and 
older. The safety profile of Bimervax is comparable to that of other COVID-19 vaccines. The most 
common side effects seen with Bimervax were usually mild to moderate and cleared within a few days 
after vaccination.  
The Agency therefore decided that Bimervax’s benefits are greater than its risks and that it can be 
recommended for authorisation in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bimervax? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bimervax have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
A risk management plan (RMP) for Bimervax is also in place and contains important information about 
the vaccine’s safety, how to collect further information and how to minimise any potential risks. 
Safety measures will be implemented for Bimervax in line with the EU safety monitoring plan for 
COVID-19 vaccines to ensure that new safety information is rapidly collected and analysed.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Bimervax are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Bimervax are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Bimervax 
Bimervax received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 30 March 2023. 
Bimervax (COVID-19 Vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted))  
EMA/151429/2023 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Further information on Bimervax can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/bimervax 
This overview was last updated in 03-2023. 
Bimervax (COVID-19 Vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted))  
EMA/151429/2023 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
