EMA/250454/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005316 
Bimzelx (bimekizumab) 
An overview of Bimzelx and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Bimzelx and what is it used for? 
Bimzelx is a medicine used to treat the following inflammatory diseases: 
•  moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis (red, scaly patches on the skin) in adults who need systemic 
treatment (treatment with medicines affecting the whole body). 
• 
• 
psoriatic arthritis (inflammation of the joints that often accompanies plaque psoriasis) in adults 
whose disease does not respond well enough to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) 
or who cannot take these medicines. For psoriatic arthritis, Bimzelx is used alone or with 
methotrexate. 
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain) in adults whose disease does 
not respond well enough to conventional treatments. For this condition, it is used in patients who 
have signs of disease on X-rays (radiographic axial spondyloarthritis) as well as in patients who 
have clear signs of inflammation but no signs of disease on X-rays (non-radiographic axial 
spondyloarthritis). 
 Bimzelx contains the active substance bimekizumab. 
How is Bimzelx used? 
Bimzelx can only be obtained with a prescription, and it should be used under the supervision of a 
doctor experienced in diagnosing and treating psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis. 
Bimzelx is available as an injection in pre-filled syringes or pen injectors. It is given as an injection 
under the skin. 
For plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis accompanying plaque psoriasis, the patient has two 
injections once every four weeks for 16 weeks. After that, injections are usually given every eight 
weeks. For psoriatic arthritis alone and axial spondyloarthritis, the patient has one injection every four 
weeks. 
The doctor may decide to stop the treatment if these conditions do not improve after 16 weeks. 
Patients can inject Bimzelx themselves once they have been trained to do so. For more information 
about using Bimzelx, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Bimzelx work? 
The active substance in Bimzelx, bimekizumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a protein designed to attach 
to interleukins IL-17A, IL-17F and IL-17AF, which are messenger molecules in the body’s immune 
system (the body’s natural defences). High levels of these interleukins have been shown to be involved 
in developing inflammatory diseases caused by the immune system, such as plaque psoriasis, psoriatic 
arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis. By attaching to these interleukins, bimekizumab prevents them 
from interacting with their receptors (targets) within the body, which reduces inflammation and 
improves the symptoms related to these diseases. 
What benefits of Bimzelx have been shown in studies? 
Plaque psoriasis 
Three main studies showed that Bimzelx was effective in treating adult patients with 
moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis improved to a greater extent in patients treated 
with Bimzelx than in those treated with placebo (a dummy treatment) or with two other medicines for 
psoriasis (ustekinumab or adalimumab). 
In the three studies involving 1,480 patients in total, around 85 to 91% of those receiving Bimzelx 
every four weeks achieved a reduction of about 90% in PASI scores (a measure of psoriasis severity 
and affected skin area) after 16 weeks. This compares with 1 to 5% of patients receiving placebo (in 
two of the studies), 50% of those receiving ustekinumab (in one of the studies), and 47% of those 
receiving adalimumab (in one of the studies).  
Also, 84 to 93% of patients receiving Bimzelx had clear or nearly clear skin after 16 weeks, compared 
with 1 to 5% of patients receiving placebo, 53% of patients receiving ustekinumab and 57% of 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
In two main studies of around 1,100 patients with psoriatic arthritis, including patients who were 
taking methotrexate, Bimzelx was effective at reducing symptoms as measured using a standard 
metric known as ACR50. Patients achieving an ACR50 response have at least a 50% improvement in 
symptoms scores for joint pain and swelling. 
Taken together, the results from the two studies showed that 44% of patients treated with Bimzelx 
achieved a ACR50 response after 16 weeks compared with 9% of those treated with placebo (a dummy 
treatment). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Two main studies in patients with axial spondyloarthritis showed that Bimzelx was effective at reducing 
symptoms as measured using a standard metric known as ASAS40 after 16 weeks. Patients achieving 
an ASAS40 response have at least a 40% improvement in scores for symptoms such as pain and 
inflammation. 
In one of the studies, which involved 254 patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, 48% 
of patients treated with Bimzelx achieved an ASAS40 response compared with 21% of patients treated 
with placebo (a dummy treatment). 
In the second study which involved 332 patients with radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, 45% of 
patients treated with Bimzelx achieved an ASAS40 response compared with 23% of patients treated 
with placebo. 
Bimzelx (bimekizumab)  
EMA/250454/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Bimzelx? 
The most common side effects with Bimzelx are upper respiratory tract infections (nose and throat 
infection), which may affect more than 1 in 10 people, and oral candidiasis (thrush, a fungal infection 
in the mouth or throat), which may affect up to 1 in 10 people.  
The medicine must not be given to patients with a significant ongoing infection, such as active 
tuberculosis. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Bimzelx, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Bimzelx authorised in the EU? 
Studies have shown that Bimzelx is an effective treatment for patients with moderate-to-severe plaque 
psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis. The positive effects of the medicine were 
maintained with continued use for up to one year. The side effects were in line with other similar 
medicines, with the most important side effect being nose and throat infections, as well as candidiasis 
(a yeast [fungal] infection) in the mouth or throat. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Bimzelx’s benefits are greater than its risks, 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bimzelx? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bimzelx have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Bimzelx are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Bimzelx are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Bimzelx 
Bimzelx received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 August 2021. 
Further information on Bimzelx can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/bimzelx.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2023. 
Bimzelx (bimekizumab)  
EMA/250454/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
