EMA/600051/2018 
EMEA/H/C/000725 
Binocrit (epoetin alfa) 
An overview of Binocrit and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Binocrit and what is it used for? 
Binocrit is a medicine used for the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to treat anaemia (low red blood cell counts) that is causing symptoms in patients with ‘chronic 
kidney failure’ (long-term, progressive decrease in the ability of the kidneys to work properly) or 
other kidney problems; 
to treat anaemia in adults receiving chemotherapy for certain types of cancer and to reduce the 
need for blood transfusions; 
to increase the amount of blood that can be taken in adult patients with moderate anaemia and 
normal blood iron levels who are going to have an operation and donate their own blood before 
surgery (autologous blood transfusion); 
to reduce the need for blood transfusions in adults with moderate anaemia who are about to 
undergo major orthopaedic (bone) surgery, such as hip surgery. It is used in patients with normal 
blood iron levels who could experience complications from a blood transfusion, if they do not 
donate their own blood before surgery and are expected to lose 900 to 1,800 ml of blood; 
to treat anaemia in adults with myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions in which the production of 
healthy blood cells is defective). Binocrit is used when patients are at low or intermediate risk of 
developing acute myeloid leukaemia and have low levels of the natural hormone erythropoietin. 
Binocrit contains the active substance epoetin alfa and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that 
Binocrit is highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already 
authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Binocrit is Eprex/Erypo. For more information on 
biosimilar medicines, see here. 
How is Binocrit used? 
Binocrit can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started under the supervision 
of a doctor who has experience in the management of patients with the conditions that Binocrit is used 
for. The iron levels of all patients should be checked to make sure that they are not too low, and iron 
supplements given if necessary. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Binocrit is available in pre-filled syringes of various strengths and is given as an injection into a vein or 
as an injection under the skin, depending on the condition for which the patient is being treated. The 
injection under the skin may be given by the patient or their carer if they have been appropriately 
trained. The dose, the frequency of injection and how long it is used for also depend on why Binocrit is 
being used and on the patient’s bodyweight, and are adjusted according to how well the medicine is 
working. 
For patients with kidney failure, myelodysplastic syndromes or receiving chemotherapy, haemoglobin 
levels should remain within the recommended range (between 10 and 12 grams per decilitre in adults 
and between 9.5 and 11 g/dl in children). Haemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries 
oxygen around the body. For these patients, the lowest dose that provides adequate control of 
symptoms should be used. 
For more information about using Binocrit, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Binocrit work? 
The active substance in Binocrit, epoetin alfa, is a copy of a hormone called erythropoietin, and works 
in exactly the same way as the natural hormone to stimulate the production of red blood cells in the 
bone marrow. Erythropoietin is produced by the kidneys. In patients receiving chemotherapy or with 
kidney problems, anaemia can be caused by a lack of erythropoietin, or by the body not responding 
well enough to natural erythropoietin. In these cases, epoetin alfa is used to increase red blood cell 
counts. Epoetin alfa is also used before surgery to increase the number of red blood cells and help 
minimise the consequences of blood loss. 
What benefits of Binocrit have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Binocrit with the reference medicine Eprex/Erypo have shown that 
the active substance in Binocrit is highly similar to that in Eprex/Erypo in terms of structure, purity and 
biological activity. Studies have also shown that giving Binocrit produces similar levels of the active 
substance in the body to giving Eprex/Erypo. 
In addition, Binocrit was shown to be as effective as Eprex/Erypo at increasing and maintaining red 
blood cell counts in several studies. 
Binocrit, injected into a vein, was compared with the reference medicine in one main study involving 
479 patients with anaemia caused by kidney problems. All of the patients had been receiving 
Eprex/Erypo injected into a vein for at least 8 weeks before they were either switched to Binocrit or 
remained on Eprex/Erypo. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the levels of 
haemoglobin between the start of the study and the evaluation period, between weeks 25 and 29. 
Patients switching to Binocrit maintained haemoglobin levels to the same extent as those continuing 
with Eprex/Erypo. A further study showed that Binocrit was safe and effective when given under the 
skin in 416 patients with chronic kidney failure. 
Another study showed that Binocrit injected under the skin was as effective in maintaining 
haemoglobin levels as Eprex/Erypo in 114 cancer patients who were receiving chemotherapy. 
 Because Binocrit is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of epoetin alfa 
carried out with Eprex/Erypo do not all need to be repeated for Binocrit. 
Binocrit (epoetin alfa)  
EMA/600051/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Binocrit? 
The most common side effects with Binocrit (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick),diarrhoea, vomiting, fever and headache. Flu-like illness may occur especially at the start 
of treatment.  For the full list of side effects of Binocrit, see the package leaflet. 
Binocrit must not be used in the following groups: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients who have developed pure red cell aplasia (reduced or stopped red blood cell production) 
following treatment with any erythropoietin; 
patients with high blood pressure that is not controlled; 
patients undergoing surgery who cannot receive medicines for the prevention of blood clots; 
patients about to undergo major orthopaedic surgery who have severe cardiovascular (heart and 
blood vessel) problems including a recent heart attack or stroke. 
When Binocrit is used for autologous blood transfusion, the restrictions normally associated with this 
type of transfusion should be observed.  
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Binocrit authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Binocrit has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Eprex/Erypo and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies have shown that the effects of the 
medicine are equivalent to those of Eprex/Erypo in increasing and maintaining blood cell counts in 
patients with chronic kidney failure or undergoing chemotherapy. Therefore the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Eprex/Erypo, the benefit of Binocrit outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Binocrit? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Binocrit have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Binocrit are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Binocrit are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Binocrit 
Binocrit received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 August 2007.  
Further information on Binocrit can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Binocrit (epoetin alfa)  
EMA/600051/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
