Summary of Risk Management Plan for BiResp Spiromax 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for BiResp Spiromax. The RMP details 
important risks of BiResp Spiromax, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
BiResp Spiromax's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how BiResp Spiromax should 
be used.  
This summary of the RMP should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary as part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of BiResp 
Spiromax RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It is used for 
BiResp Spiromax is indicated in the regular treatment of asthma, where use of a combination 
(inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2-adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate, as well as for the 
symptomatic treatment of patients with severe COPD and a history of repeated exacerbations, 
who have significant symptoms despite regular therapy with long-acting bronchodilators (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains fixed-dose combination of active substances 
budesonide and formoterol and it is given as inhalation powder.  
Further information about the evaluation of BiResp Spiromax benefits can be found in EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/biresp-spiromax. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of BiResp Spiromax, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about BiResp Spiromax risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of BiResp Spiromax is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of BiResp Spiromax are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of BiResp Spiromax. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1: 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
  None 
  None 
  None 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
There are no important risks or missing information for BiResp Spiromax. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies That Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies, which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of BiResp Spiromax. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for BiResp Spiromax. 
 
 
 
