Blenrep is a cancer medicine used to treat multiple myeloma (a cancer of the bone marrow). It is given 
monoclonal antibody (types of cancer medicines), and whose cancer has worsened since receiving the 
to adults who have received at least four previous treatments and whose disease does not respond to 
Multiple myeloma is rare, and Blenrep was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
treatment with at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 
last treatment. 
EMA/407643/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004935 
What is Blenrep and what is it used for? 
diseases) on 16 October 2017. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin) 
An overview of Blenrep and why it is authorised in the EU 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
For more information about using Blenrep, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3171925.  
no longer benefits from it, or the side effects become unacceptable.  
Blenrep contains the active substance belantamab mafodotin. 
Blenrep, as this may reduce corneal side effects.  
How does Blenrep work? 
How is Blenrep used? 
pharmacist. 
Because Blenrep could damage the cornea (the transparent layer in front of the eye that covers the 
pupil and iris), patients should have their eyes checked before and during treatment. Patients should 
The active substance in Blenrep, belantamab mafodotin, consists of a monoclonal antibody (a type of 
Blenrep can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
use preservative-free artificial tears at least 4 times a day beginning on the first day of treatment with 
every three weeks, and the dose depends on body weight. Treatment should continue until the patient 
protein) attached to a cytotoxic (cell-killing) molecule. The antibody has been designed to attach to a 
doctor experienced in the treatment of multiple myeloma. It is given by infusion (drip) into a vein once 
protein called B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), which is present on the surface of abnormal immature 
plasma cells (myeloma cells). When Blenrep is given to the patient, the medicine’s antibody portion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
attaches to BCMA on the myeloma cells and delivers the cytotoxic molecule into the cells. Once inside, 
the cytotoxic molecule kills the cells by interfering with their ability to divide and grow. Blenrep also 
stimulates the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to attack the myeloma cells, and these 
infection), fever, and reactions related to the infusion. For the full list of side effects and restrictions of 
The most common side effects with Blenrep are keratopathy (damage to the cornea, which may affect 
Almost a third of patients (32%) given the recommended dose responded to treatment with Blenrep. 
The most common serious side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are pneumonia (lung 
more than 7 in 10 people) and thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts, which may affect more 
An ongoing main study involving 196 patients showed that Blenrep was effective at clearing cancer 
cells in patients with multiple myeloma that had returned and did not respond to other treatments. 
actions combined are expected to slow down progression of the disease. 
than 3 in 10 people). 
Blenrep, see the package leaflet. 
The response lasted on average for 11 months. 
Why is Blenrep authorised in the EU? 
What are the risks associated with Blenrep? 
What benefits of Blenrep have been shown in studies? 
Blenrep was effective at clearing myeloma cells, with almost a third of patients in the main study 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Blenrep? 
The company that markets Blenrep will provide educational material to healthcare professionals, 
provide the final results of the main study mentioned above and the results of another study 
new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Blenrep? 
option for patients with multiple myeloma that has come back.  
can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Blenrep has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
of Blenrep are mostly reversible and manageable with dose modifications and close monitoring. The 
Since Blenrep has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets the medicine will 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Blenrep’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
prescribed Blenrep will also be provided with educational materials including a patient alert card with 
responding to treatment. The duration of the response was also clinically meaningful. The side effects 
including eye specialists, to inform them that Blenrep can affect the eyes and vision. Patients who are 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
comparing Blenrep with pomalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone, which is an approved treatment 
this information. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Blenrep have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin)  
EMA/407643/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Blenrep are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Blenrep are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Blenrep received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 August 2020. 
Other information about Blenrep 
This overview was last updated in 08-2020. 
Further information on Blenrep can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/blenrep.   
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin)  
EMA/407643/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
