Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
Note 
deleted.  
EU/3/17/1925 
Treatment of multiple myeloma 
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited    
25 August 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-499024 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
BLENREP (belantamab mafodotin) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
4. COMP position adopted on 29 July 2020 ................................................ 10 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
maturation antigen conjugated with maleimidocaproyl 
monoclonal antibody conjugated with an average of 
Other name(s) 
Designated active substance 
Humanised monoclonal antibody targeting B-cell 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Tradename 
orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
Humanised anti-BCMA (B cell maturation antigen) 
Ireland  
BLENREP 
Dublin 24 
auristatin F) 
12 Riverwalk 
Belantamab mafodotin 
monomethyl auristatin F 
2857916; J6M0-mcMMAF  
Citywest Business Campus 
Treatment of multiple myeloma  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
four mcMMAF (maleimidocaproyl monomethyl 
Belantamab mafodotin - anti-BCMA-ADC; GSK-
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Tuomo Lapveteläinen / Blanca Garcia-Ochoa 
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
letter of 01 April 2020 
18 December 2019  
7 September 2017 
EMA/H/C/004935 
16 October 2017 
30 January 2020 
EU/3/17/1925 
BLENREP 
Limited to GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited – EC 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Post-designation procedural history 
Application submission date 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
EC registration number  
Applicant 
Sponsor’s name change  
Name change from GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
BLENREP is indicated as monotherapy for the 
treatment of multiple myeloma in adult patients, who 
have received at least four prior therapies and whose 
disease is refractory to at least one proteasome 
procedure) 
CHMP opinion date 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2017 was 
COMP opinion (adoption via written 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Sponsor’s report submission 
COMP discussion  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Further information on BLENREP can be found in the 
inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-
R/blenrep)  
23 July 2020 
29 July 2020 
Agency’s website 
18-20 May 2020  
10 February 2020  
Karri Penttila / Brigitte Schwarzer-Daum 
CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
antibody targeting B-cell maturation antigen conjugated with maleimidocaproyl monomethyl 
auristatin F was considered justified based on preliminary clinical data showing responses in 
insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with a median survival of 
the condition. The sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data in heavily pretreated 
Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
at the time the application for orphan designation was submitted; 
treated patients with relapsing or refractory multiple myeloma; 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European 
relapsed/refractory patients who have responded to treatment with the proposed product. The 
approximately 6 years; 
with maleimidocaproyl monomethyl auristatin F will be of significant benefit to those affected by 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing humanised monoclonal 
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 4 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
product containing humanised monoclonal antibody targeting B-cell maturation antigen conjugated 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
infection or other disease and exposure to specific toxic substances or irradiation have been implicated 
multiple myeloma in adult patients, who have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease 
in the aetiology of the condition. Symptomatic plasma cell myeloma is defined by the presence of end 
multifocal neoplasm associated with an M-protein in serum or urine. Chronic antigen stimulation from 
organ damage (CRAB criteria: hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia, bone lesions) in a patient 
with an M component and clonal BM cells. Asymptomatic, smouldering, non-secretory myeloma and 
is refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
Plasma cell myeloma (also commonly referred to as “multiple myeloma”) is a bone-marrow based 
plasma cell leukaemia are variants of plasma cell myeloma.  
application is made 
Condition 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
entirely within the scope of the designated orphan condition “treatment of multiple myeloma”. 
The proposed therapeutic indication “BLENREP is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of 
monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy” falls 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The sponsor has not identified any changes in the seriousness of the proposed condition. It has 
previously been considered by the COMP that plasma cell myeloma (also referred to as “multiple 
hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions. The seriousness of the condition is 
correction factor of 0.8 based on Li et al (Cancer Causes Control 2016;27:8:1019-26), and b) an 
myeloma”) is chronically debilitating and life-threatening in particular due to the development of 
was however considered by the COMP that this would not be a valid epidemiological reference. 
partial prevalence consideration from GLOBOCAN (Ferlay PMID:25220842 2018) also using a 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The sponsor proposed that the condition affects 2.5 per 10,000 people, on the basis of a) a 5-year 
years (from Kumar 2014). Another source used by the sponsor was a market tool (CancerMPact®) 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
which was used to draw data for 10-year partial prevalence, and then adjusted for full prevalence. It 
The medical plausibility was considered confirmed based on the positive benefit/risk assessment of the 
indirect calculation using GLOBOCAN age-adjusted incidence, multiplied by an assumed duration of 6.1 
Number of people affected or at risk 
CHMP, please see EPAR. 
acknowledged. 
The following table which is sourced from the maintenance report of the sponsor summarizes the 
conclusions of the sponsor: 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
estimates. 
framework. 
the newly available treatments. 
In the evaluation of the justifications submitted by the applicant for the recalculation of the prevalence, 
probably due to the ageing population and b) the survival rate is improving in the EU, probably due to 
It was also considered that any prevalence calculation, in particular for multiple myeloma, would have 
The COMP considered that, given that the condition is an incurable disease, with increasing relapses 
the COMP reflected on the methodology applied by the applicant and the conclusions drawn on the 
to be based on updated information. This is because a) crude incidence rates are rising in the EU, 
basis of it. It was noted that the sponsor has submitted both partial and complete prevalence 
over time, the complete prevalence (and not any partial prevalence referring to limited time from 
diagnosis) is the appropriate index to report the number of affected individuals for the orphan 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
considered that a notable absence in the sponsor’s position was the reference to ECIS (European 
there is an absence of up-to date European survival data, which would be important for such an 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
28 European (EU-28) countries was 0.81 per 10,000 persons. This could have been used to derive 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
The COMP reflected on the availability of several sources, including ECIS, NORDCAN (giving a 3.7 per 
10,000 prevalence for 2016), HMRN (UK) and even extra-European sources such as SEER. It was also 
Cancer Information System). According to the ECIS 2018 database the estimated crude incidence for 
concerning multiple myeloma and considered an approximately 4 per 10,000 figure to be acceptable. 
prevalence, taking into consideration the duration of the condition. However, the COMP also noted that 
In light of these uncertainties, the Committee decided to use its knowledge as per previous procedures 
There are several medicinal products authorised in the EU for the treatment of multiple myeloma. In 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
exercise. 
addition to the centrally approved products (daratumumab, carfilzomib, bortezomib, doxorubicin, 
interferon alfa-2b, lenalidomide, thalidomide, panobinostat, elotuzumab, ixazomib, pomalidomide, 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
isatuximab), there are also products authorised at the national level (carmustine, cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, bendamustine, epirubicin, melphalan and vincristine). 
As per the ESMO guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of multiple myeloma (Moreau et al. Annals 
Pomalidomide: in combination with dexamethasone in patients after at least two prior treatment 
dexamethasone, for at least one prior therapy. Also, as a monotherapy for relapsed and refractory 
Panobinostat: in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone, for patients who have received 
depends on several parameters such as age, performance status, comorbidities and the type, effects 
•  Elotuzumab, in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone after at least one prior therapy, 
and in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone after at least two therapies including 
and tolerability of previous treatments.  
• 
• 
• 
The following products are specifically authorised in late line indications: 
of Oncology 28 (Supplement 4): iv52–iv61, 2017) in second line treatment, the choice of therapy 
•  Carfilzomib is authorised in combination with either lenalidomide and dexamethasone or 
•  Daratumumab: in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone, or bortezomib and 
immunomodulatory agent;  
lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor; 
dexamethasone alone after at least one prior therapy; 
regimens, including both lenalidomide and bortezomib; 
at least two prior regimens including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent;  
multiple myeloma, for patient whose prior therapy included a proteasome inhibitor and an 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation; 
Isatuximab in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult 
inhibitor. 
be sufficient to demonstrate significant benefit, provided clinically relevant durable responses are 
observed compared to historical controls, and indirect comparison considers all relevant authorised 
•  Bortezomib as a monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
survival (mOS) of 13.7 months. The sponsor stressed that the DREAMM-2 patient population is not 
32%, medial duration of response (mDoR) of 11 months (95% CI: 4.2, NR) and median overall 
comparable to the patient population of the main trials of panobinostat, elotuzumab and other 
medicinal products in the treatment of multiple myeloma”. 
In order to justify significant benefit, the sponsor elaborated on the results of the pivotal study, and 
(13 months data cut-off of 31st January 2020) of DREAMM-2 point to  overall response rate (ORR) of 
The sponsor received protocol assistance in 2018 and COMP advised that “…the phase II study could 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma 
patients who have received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome 
who have received at least one prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable 
also performed some indirect comparisons that are discussed below. It was reported that updated data 
comparators due to differences in e.g. little to no prior exposure to anti- CD38 directed therapies and 
Significant benefit 
lower median number of prior lines.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Nevertheless, some indirect comparisons were in fact conducted. Firstly, a matching-adjusted indirect 
comparison (MAIC) was performed versus the STORM Part 2 single arm phase II trial of selinexor-
dexamethasone (SelDex) in patients who received at least three prior lines of therapy including an 
anti-CD38 directed therapy and who were double refractory to proteasome inhibitor and an 
Bucher’s indirect comparisons, as discussed below.  
most patients being refractory to daratumumab (93%), lenalidomide (77%), pomalidomide (65%), and 
=0.005). This exercise was considered not to be of direct relevance for the significant benefit exercise, 
Importantly, the efficacy of belantamab mafodotin versus the standard of care of the MAMMOTH study 
standard of care. Patients in that study had received a median of 4 lines of therapy (range 1–16) with 
study. Estimates were derived using the covariate-adjusted HR reported by Costa et al. and the naïve 
immunomodulatory agent and a proteasome inhibitor to 5.6 months for patients refractory to an anti-
immunomodulatory agent. With regards to OS, the MAIC pointed to a favourable HR of 0.53 (p-value 
regards to MAMMOTH, it evaluated the outcome in patient’s refractory to anti-CD38 directed therapy 
bortezomib (68%). The mOS among patients who were refractory to an anti-CD38 directed therapy 
(N=275) across 14 academic centres in the US, and the sponsor considers this to be reflecting the 
observational MAMMOTH study, published by Gandhi et al, 2019 (Leukemia 33, 2266–2275). With 
CD38 directed therapy, two PIs and two immunomodulatory agents (penta-refractory).   
was estimated for OS using Bucher indirect treatment comparisons. In order to perform the 
was 8.6 months (7.5–9.9), ranging from 11.2 for patients not simultaneously refractory to an 
Secondly, the sponsor also presented an indirect comparison of the DREAMM-2 study versus the 
since selinexor was not authorised in the EU. However, it could be used as a “bridge” to conduct 
comparisons, an abstract by Costa et al was also used (Blood. 2019; 134 (Supplement_1): 3125) 
discussing the effects of SelDex in triple class refractory patients with reference to the MAMMOTH 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
refractory to prior elotuzumab use. In those 13 patients, 3 responded to treatment with 
It was considered that the only two products authorized in late R/R settings that do not fall in the 
HDAC inhibitor. These products were considered relevant for the discussion of significant benefit, 
refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 
The COMP considered that the therapeutic indication for belantamab mafodotin already provides 
myeloma in adult patients, who have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease is 
was specifically asked to provide further justifications to support the significant benefit versus 
therapeutic indication of belantamab mafodotin. During the discussions with the sponsor, the latter 
of reweighted HR of belantamab mafodotin versus SelDex. This approach found a favourable OS for 
•  As regards elotuzumab, the sponsor pointed out that the study DREAMM-2 included a number of 
monoclonal antibody, [emphasis added] and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last 
for the indication. This is because BLENREP is indicated “as monotherapy for the treatment of multiple 
patients who were refractory to elotuzumab. In particular, 13 treated patients were reported to be 
above classes of products are elotuzumab, being an anti-SLAMF7 antibody, and panobinostat, being an 
because they are authorized after at least two prior lines therapies, thereby encompassing the fifth line 
information relevant for the significant benefit versus the majority of the authorized medicinal products 
belantamab mafodotin monotherapy (3/13, 23.1% ORR). The COMP accepted this as an argument 
elotuzumab and panobinostat.  
belantamab mafodotin.  
therapy.”   
of improved efficacy of belantamab mafodotin, versus elotuzumab, because of the documented 
responses in patients who had previously failed to treatment with elotuzumab.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
 
 
•  As for panobinostat, the sponsor postulated that if it was to be used as monotherapy in the 
population described in the therapeutic indication of belantamab mafodotin, a very low remission 
rate could be expected (which the sponsor expected to be in the area of 10%). The sponsor 
mafodotin versus the other currently authorised methods for treatment of the condition. 
at least 4 prior therapies and who are refractory to at least one immunomodulatory drug, one 
therapy, as detailed in the therapeutic indication for belantamab mafodotin, the treatment options 
proteasome inhibitor, and one anti-CD-38 antibody, and whose disease has progressed on the last 
advantage, on the basis of which significant benefit has been considered established for belantamab 
The COMP reflected on the submitted evidence and acknowledged that for patients who have received 
become very limited. It was also considered that the available data support improved efficacy 
compared to those very limited options. This was considered to constitute a clinically relevant 
were treated with panobinostat, bortezomib and dexamethasone. This abstract reported that while 
referred to a real-world evidence, unpublished, abstract by Bird and co-workers (Royal Marsden 
Hospital), reporting on the treatment of 46 patients with 5 prior lines of therapy (range 2-8) who 
the ORR was 45% in the treated population, the median PFS of the whole group was 3.5 months 
bortezomib and dexamethasone), despite the studied population in the DREAMM-2 study being 
more heavily pre-treated (median 6, range 3–21).  
and the OS was 7.8 months. The COMP considered that while real world data would have 
favourably to the outcomes of patients treated with panobinostat (as part of panobinostat, 
limitations compared to trial data, the reported OS for belantamab mafodotin would compare 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 29 July 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating, in particular due to the development of 
European Union, the assumption that BLENREP is of significant benefit for the subset population of 
treatment options become very limited and the available clinical data support improved efficacy of 
the prevalence of multiple myeloma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
for patients who have progressed after at least four prior therapies and who are refractory to at 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
the sponsor has provided clinical data that demonstrate the efficacy of BLENREP in heavily pre-
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
BLENREP compared to those options;  
hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions; 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the Committee considers that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
the orphan condition as defined in the granted therapeutic indication still holds; 
treated multiple myeloma patients who were refractory to several classes of products;  
least one immunomodulatory drug, one proteasome inhibitor, and one anti-CD38 antibody 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be approximately 4 in 10,000 persons in the 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
monomethyl auristatin F, for treatment of multiple myeloma (EU/3/17/1925) is not removed from the 
Community Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that BLENREP, humanised 
monoclonal antibody targeting B-cell maturation antigen conjugated with maleimidocaproyl 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000028779 
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
