ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
2. 
1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
One vial of powder contains 100 mg of belantamab mafodotin.  
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
BLENREP 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (powder for concentrate). 
After reconstitution, the solution contains 50 mg belantamab mafodotin per mL. 
Belantamab mafodotin is an antibody-drug conjugate that contains belantamab, an afucosylated 
humanised monoclonal IgG1k antibody specific for B cell maturation antigen (BCMA), produced 
using recombinant DNA technology in a mammalian cell line (Chinese Hamster Ovary) that is 
conjugated with maleimidocaproyl monomethyl auristatin F (mcMMAF). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
BLENREP is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma in adult patients, who 
have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least one proteasome 
inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Patients should have an ophthalmic examination (including visual acuity and slit lamp examination) 
performed by an eye care professional at baseline, before the subsequent 3 treatment cycles, and as 
clinically indicated whilst on treatment (see section 4.4).  
Treatment with BLENREP should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of multiple myeloma.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Lyophilised white to yellow powder. 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
Recommended supportive care 
4. 
Physicians should advise patients to administer preservative-free artificial tears at least 4 times a day 
beginning on the first day of infusion and continuing until completion of treatment as this may reduce 
corneal symptoms (see section 4.4).  
For patients with dry eye symptoms, additional therapies may be considered as recommended by their 
eye care professional.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 2.5 mg/kg of BLENREP administered as an intravenous infusion once 
every 3 weeks.  
treating physician. 
Dose modifications 
Management of corneal adverse reactions 
During the ophthalmic examination, the eye care professional should assess the following: 
•  The highest category grading for these examination findings and BCVA should be reported to the 
If there is a decline in BCVA, the relationship of corneal examination findings to BLENREP 
should be determined. 
Recommended dose modifications for corneal adverse reactions are provided in Table 1. Table 2 
provides dose modifications recommended for other adverse reactions. 
It is recommended that treatment should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable 
toxicity (see section 4.4). 
•  The corneal examination finding(s) and the decline in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA). 
• 
Corneal adverse reactions may include findings upon eye examination and/or changes in visual acuity 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The treating physician should review the patient’s ophthalmic examination 
report before dosing and should determine the dose of BLENREP based on the highest category from 
the report in the most severely affected eye as both eyes may not be affected to the same degree (Table 
1). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Withhold treatment until 
improvement in examination 
findings and BCVA to mild 
severity or better.  
Consider resuming treatment at a 
reduced dose of 1.9 mg/kg. 
Decline from baseline of 2 or 3 lines (and 
Snellen Visual Acuity not worse than 
20/200) 
Recommended dose 
modifications 
Continue treatment at current dose. 
Decline from baseline of 1 line on Snellen 
Visual Acuity 
Severe superficial keratopathyd 
Corneal epithelial defecte 
Table 1. Dose modifications for corneal adverse reactions 
Moderate superficial keratopathyc 
Withhold until improvement in 
examination findings and BCVA to 
mild severity or better.  
For worsening symptoms that are 
unresponsive to appropriate 
management, consider 
discontinuation. 
Decline from baseline of more than 3 lines 
on Snellen Visual Acuity 
Mild superficial keratopathyb 
Corneal examination finding(s) 
Corneal examination finding(s) 
Corneal examination finding(s) 
Eye examination findings 
Change in BCVA 
Change in BCVA 
Change in BCVA 
Categorya 
Moderate 
Severe 
Mild 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  The severity category is defined by the most severely affected eye as both eyes may not be affected 
to the same degree. 
 b Mild superficial keratopathy (documented worsening from baseline), with or without symptoms. 
c  Moderate superficial keratopathy – with or without patchy microcyst-like deposits, sub-epithelial 
haze (peripheral), or a new peripheral stromal opacity. 
Adverse reaction 
Grade 3 or 4 
(severe) 
indicated by an eye care professional. 
Thrombocytopenia 
(see section 4.4) 
Infusion-related reactions 
(see section 4.4) 
Table 2. Dose modifications for other adverse reactions 
cornea, sub-epithelial haze (central), or a new central stromal opacity. 
d Severe superficial keratopathy with or without diffuse microcyst-like deposits involving the central 
e  A corneal defect may lead to corneal ulcers. These should be managed promptly and as clinically 
Withhold BLENREP until platelet count 
improves to Grade 3 or better. Consider 
resuming at a reduced dose of 1.9 mg/kg. 
Recommended dose modifications 
Consider withholding BLENREP and/or 
reducing the dose of BLENREP to 1.9 mg/kg. 
Severity 
Grade 2-3:  
Platelet count 25,000 
to less than 
75,000/microlitres 
Grade 4: 
Platelet count less 
than 
25,000/microlitres 
Grade 2 
(moderate) 
Interrupt infusion and provide supportive 
treatment. Once symptoms resolve, resume at 
lower infusion rate by at least 50%. 
Interrupt infusion and provide supportive 
treatment. Once symptoms resolve, resume at 
lower infusion rate reduced by at least 50%. If 
anaphylactic or life-threatening infusion 
reaction, permanently discontinue the infusion 
and institute appropriate emergency care. 
Adverse reactions were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology 
Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than ULN 
to less than or equal to 1.5 × ULN or aspartate transaminase [AST] greater than ULN). There are 
insufficient data in patients with moderate hepatic impairment and no data in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment to support a dose recommendation (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥30 
mL/min). There are insufficient data in patients with severe renal impairment to support a dose 
recommendation (see section 5.2). 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients (see section 5.2). 
Body weight 
BLENREP has not been studied in patients with body weight < 40 kg or > 130 kg (see section 5.2). 
Special populations  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of BLENREP in children and adolescents below 18 years of age have not been 
established. No data are available. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
BLENREP is for intravenous use. 
BLENREP must be reconstituted and diluted by a healthcare professional prior to administration as an 
intravenous infusion. BLENREP should be infused over a minimum of 30 minutes (see section 6.6). 
Traceability 
Corneal adverse reactions 
4.3  Contraindications 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Corneal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of BLENREP. The most commonly 
reported adverse reactions were keratopathy or microcyst-like epithelial changes in corneal epithelium 
(as seen on eye examination) with or without changes in visual acuity, blurred vision, and dry eye 
symptoms. Patients with a history of dry eyes were more prone to develop changes in the corneal 
epithelium. Changes in visual acuity may be associated with difficulty in driving or operating 
machinery (see section 4.7). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Cases with changes in the subbasal nerve plexus of the cornea (e.g., nerve fibre fragmentation and loss 
of nerve fibres) resulting in hypoesthesia of the cornea, and cases of corneal ulcer (ulcerative and 
infective keratitis) have been reported (see section 4.8). Corneal ulcers should be managed promptly 
and as clinically indicated by an eye care professional. Treatment with BLENREP should be 
interrupted until the corneal ulcer has healed (see Table 1). 
Ophthalmic examinations, including assessment of visual acuity and slit lamp examination, should be 
performed at baseline, before the subsequent 3 treatment cycles and during treatment as clinically 
indicated. Patients should be advised to administer preservative-free artificial tears at least 4 times a 
day during treatment (see section 4.2). Patients should avoid using contact lenses until the end of 
treatment. 
Thrombocytopenic events (thrombocytopenia and platelet count decreased) were frequently reported 
in study 205678.  Thrombocytopenia may lead to serious bleeding events, including gastrointestinal 
and intracranial bleeding. 
Patients experiencing keratopathy with or without changes in visual acuity may require a dose 
modification (delay and/or reduction) or treatment discontinuation based on severity of findings (see 
Table 1). 
Complete blood counts should be obtained at baseline and monitored during treatment, as clinically 
indicated. Patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia or those on concomitant anticoagulant 
treatments may require more frequent monitoring and should be managed with a dose delay or dose 
reduction (see Table 2). Supportive therapy (e.g. platelet transfusions) should be provided according to 
standard medical practice. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Infusion-Related Reactions 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Excipients 
Pneumonitis 
Infusion-related reactions (IRR) have been reported with BLENREP. Most IRRs were Grade 1-2 and 
resolved within the same day (see section 4.8). If a grade 2 or higher infusion- related reaction occurs 
during administration, reduce the infusion rate or stop the infusion depending on the severity of the 
symptoms. Institute appropriate medical treatment and restart infusion at a slower rate, if the patient’s 
condition is stable. If Grade 2 or higher IRR occurs, administer premedication for subsequent 
infusions (see Table 2). 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg dose, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with belantamab mafodotin. 
Based on available in vitro and clinical data, there is a low risk of pharmacokinetic or 
pharmacodynamic drug interactions for belantamab mafodotin (see section 5.2). 
Cases of pneumonitis from spontaneous reports and named patient programs, including fatal events, 
have been observed with BLENREP. Evaluation of patients with new or worsening unexplained 
pulmonary symptoms (e.g. cough, dyspnea) should be performed to exclude possible pneumonitis. In 
case of suspected Grade 3 or higher pneumonitis, BLENREP should be withheld. If Grade 3 or higher 
pneumonitis is confirmed, appropriate treatment should be initiated. BLENREP should only be 
resumed after an evaluation of the benefit and risk. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Based on the mechanism of action of the cytotoxic component monomethyl auristatin F (MMAF), 
belantamab mafodotin can cause embryo-foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman (see 
section 5.3). Human immunoglobulin G (IgG) is known to cross the placenta; therefore, belantamab 
mafodotin has the potential to be transmitted from the mother to the developing foetus (see section 
5.3). 
Women 
The pregnancy status of child-bearing women should be verified prior to initiating therapy with 
BLENREP. 
Men 
Men with female partners of child-bearing potential should use effective contraception during 
treatment with BLENREP and for 6 months after the last dose. 
Women of child-bearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with BLENREP 
and for 4 months after the last dose. 
Women of child-bearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
There are no data from the use of BLENREP in pregnant women. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy 
BLENREP should not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother outweighs the 
potential risks to the foetus. If a pregnant woman needs to be treated she should be clearly advised on 
the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility  
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
It is not known whether belantamab mafodotin is excreted into human milk. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) 
is present in human milk in small amounts. Since belantamab mafodotin is a humanised IgG 
monoclonal antibody, and based on the mechanism of action, it may cause serious adverse reactions in 
breast-fed children. Women should be advised to discontinue breast-feeding prior to initiating 
treatment with BLENREP and for 3 months after the last dose. 
Based on findings in animals and the mechanism of action, belantamab mafodotin may impair fertility 
in females and males of reproductive potential (see section 5.3). 
Therefore, women of childbearing potential who may desire children in the future should be 
counselled prior to therapy regarding the option of having eggs frozen before treatment. Men being 
treated with this medicine are advised to have sperm samples frozen and stored before treatment.  
BLENREP has a moderate influence on the ability to drive or use machines (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Patients should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machines as BLENREP may 
affect their vision.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The safety of BLENREP was evaluated in 95 patients who received BLENREP 2.5 mg/kg in study 
205678. The most frequent adverse reactions (≥30%) were keratopathy (71%) and thrombocytopenia 
(38%). The most commonly reported serious adverse reactions were pneumonia (7%), pyrexia (7%) 
and IRRs (3%). Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 9% of patients who 
received BLENREP with 3% related to ocular adverse reactions. 
Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 
to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, where relevant, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 3. Adverse reactions reported in multiple myeloma patients treated with BLENREP 
System Organ Class 
Table 3 summarises adverse drug reactions that occurred in patients receiving the recommended dose 
of BLENREP 2.5 mg/kg once every 3 weeks.  
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Thrombocytopeniac 
Incidence (%) 
Any 
Grade 
11 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Infections and 
infestations 
Adverse reactionsa  
Very common 
Very common 
Pneumoniab 
Frequency 
Common 
38 
9 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders  
Grade 
3-4  
7 
Anaemia 
Lymphopeniad 
Leukopeniae 
Neutropeniaf 
7 
27 
20 
17 
15 
0 
22 
21 
17 
6 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
4 
1 
0 
0 
1 
Eye disorders 
Keratopathyg 
Blurred vision eventsh 
Dry eye eventsi 
Very common 
71 
25 
15 
Photophobia 
Common 
4 
1 
3 
7 
2 
23 
25 
16 
11 
13 
21 
NA 
NA 
Nausea 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Common 
Common 
1 
NA 
1 
NA 
Diarrhoea 
Not known 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Pneumonitis 
Eye irritation 
Investigations 
Very common 
Very common 
Ulcerative keratitis  
0 
1 
2 
1 
4 
2 
2 
3 
Vomiting 
Albuminurial 
Increased gamma glutamyltransferase 
Increased aspartate aminotransferase   Very common 
Infective keratitis  
Corneal hypoesthesiaj 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
Disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications  
NA = not applicable 
a Adverse reactions coded using MedDRA and graded for severity based CTCAE v4.03. 
b Includes pneumonia and herpes simplex pneumonia 
c Includes thrombocytopenia and decreased platelet count. 
d Includes lymphopenia and decreased lymphocyte count. 
e Includes leukopenia and decreased leukocyte count. 
f  Includes neutropenia and decreased neutrophil count. 
g Based on eye examination, characterised as corneal epithelium changes with or without symptoms. 
h Includes diplopia, vision blurred, visual acuity reduced, and visual impairment.  
i Includes dry eye, ocular discomfort, and eye pruritus.  
j Preferred term is hypoaesthesia eye. 
k Includes events determined by investigators to be related to infusion. Infusion reactions may include, 
but are not limited to, pyrexia, chills, diarrhea, nausea, asthenia, hypertension, lethargy, tachycardia. 
l Identified from patients across the BLENREP clinical program including study 205678. The frequency 
is based on the program-wide exposure. 
Increased creatine phosphokinase 
Infusion-related reactionsk 
Common 
Very common 
Corneal adverse reactions were assessed in Study 205678 from the safety population (n = 218) which 
included patients treated with 2.5 mg/kg (n=95). Eye disorder events occurred in 74% patients and the 
most common adverse reactions were keratopathy or microcyst-like epithelial changes in corneal 
epithelium [identified on eye exam, with or without symptoms] (71%), blurred vision (25%), and dry 
eye symptoms (15%). Decreased vision (Snellen Visual Acuity worse than 20/50) in the better eye was 
reported in 18% and severe vision loss (20/200 or worse) in the better seeing eye was reported in 1% 
of patients treated with belantamab mafodotin. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Corneal adverse reactions 
5 
21 
2 
3 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median time to onset of Grade 2 or above corneal findings (best corrected visual acuity or 
keratopathy on eye examination) was 36 days (range: 19 to 143 days). The median time to resolution 
of these corneal findings was 91 days (range: 21 to 201 days).  
Corneal findings (keratopathy) led to dose delays in 47% of patients, and dose reductions in 27% of 
patients. Three percent of patients discontinued treatment due to ocular events. 
Infections 
Thrombocytopenia 
Infusion-related reactions 
Thrombocytopenic events, (thrombocytopenia and platelet count decreased) occurred in 38% of 
patients treated with belantamab mafodotin 2.5 mg/kg. Grade 2 thrombocytopenic events occurred in 
3% of patients, Grade 3 in 9%, and Grade 4 in 13%. Grade 3 bleeding events occurred in 2% of 
patients and no Grade 4 or 5 events were reported.  
In clinical studies, the incidence of infusion-related reactions (IRR) with belantamab mafodotin 
2.5 mg/kg was 21%, and most (90%) occurred during the first infusion. Most IRRs were reported as 
Grade 1 (6%) and Grade 2 (12%) while 3% experienced Grade 3 IRRs. Serious IRRs were reported by 
4% of patients and included symptoms of pyrexia and lethargy. Median time to onset and the median 
duration of the first occurrence of an IRR was 1 day. One patient (1%) discontinued treatment due to 
IRRs, experiencing Grade 3 IRRs at first and second infusion. No Grade 4 or 5 IRRs were reported.  
Upper respiratory tract infections were commonly reported across the belantamab mafodotin clinical 
programme and were mostly mild to moderate (Grade 1 to 3), occurring in 9% of patients treated with 
belantamab mafodotin 2.5 mg/kg. There were no SAEs of upper respiratory tract infections reported.  
Pneumonia was the most frequent infection reported in 11% of patients treated with belantamab 
mafodotin 2.5 mg/kg. Pneumonia was also the most frequent SAE, reported in 7% of patients. 
Infections with a fatal outcome were primarily due to pneumonia (1%). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
There is no known specific antidote for belantamab mafodotin overdose. In the event of an overdose, 
the patient should be monitored for any signs or symptoms of adverse effects and appropriate 
supportive treatment should be instituted immediately. 
There has been no experience of overdosage in clinical studies.  
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
4.9  Overdose  
5. 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug 
conjugates, ATC code: L01FX15  
Mechanism of action 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
Clinical efficacy 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Belantamab mafodotin is a humanised IgG1κ monoclonal antibody conjugated with a cytotoxic agent, 
maleimidocaproyl monomethyl auristatin F (mcMMAF). Belantamab mafodotin binds to cell surface 
BCMA and is rapidly internalised. Once inside the tumour cell, the cytotoxic agent is released 
disrupting the microtubule network, leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. The antibody enhances 
recruitment and activation of immune effector cells, killing tumour cells by antibody-dependent 
cellular cytotoxicity and phagocytosis. Apoptosis induced by belantamab mafodotin is accompanied 
by markers of immunogenic cell death, which may contribute to an adaptive immune response to 
tumour cells. 
Cardiac Electrophysiology 
Based on exposure-QTc analysis, belantamab mafodotin had no meaningful QTc prolongation (>10 
ms) at the recommended dose of 2.5 mg/kg once every 3 weeks. 
In clinical studies in patients with multiple myeloma, <1% of patients (2/274) tested positive for anti-
belantamab mafodotin antibodies after receiving belantamab mafodotin. One of the two patients tested 
positive for neutralising anti-belantamab mafodotin antibodies. 
Study 205678 was an open-label, two arm, Phase II, multicentre study which evaluated belantamab 
mafodotin as monotherapy in patients with multiple myeloma who had relapsed following treatment 
with at least 3 prior therapies, and who were refractory to an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome 
inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody alone or in combination. Patients were included if they had 
undergone autologous stem cell transplant or were considered transplant ineligible and had measurable 
disease by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Patients were randomised to receive 2.5 mg/kg (N=97) or 3.4 mg/kg (N=99) belantamab mafodotin by 
intravenous infusion every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (see Table 4). 
The data presented below is from the 2.5 mg/kg cohort who received the recommended therapeutic 
dose based on overall benefit risk assessment (see section 4. 2).  
Table 4: Baseline demographics and disease characteristics 
Cytogenetics risk 
Number of prior lines  
Baseline Characteristics 
ISS stage at screening 
ECOG at baseline 
Duration of exposure 
Gender  
Age  
Median (range) 
Interquartile range 
Male 
Female 
0/1 
2 
II 
III  
High risk* 
Median 
Range 
Median 
Range 
Median 
Range 
2.5 mg/kg 
(N=97) 
65.0 (39-85) 
60-70 
51 (53%) 
46 (47%) 
33%, 50%, 
17% 
33 (34%) 
42 (43%) 
26 (27%) 
7 
(3-21) 
9 weeks  
(2-75) 
3  
(1-17) 
Treatment cycles 
ECOG = Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status 
ISS= International Staging System 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*High risk cytogenetic factors [positive for t (4;14), t (14;16), and 17p13del] 
The primary endpoint was overall response rate as evaluated by an Independent Review Committee 
(IRC) based on the IMWG Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma. Table 5 provides the 
results of study 205678.  
Clinical response 
Paediatric population 
Overall response rate (ORR), % (97.5% CI) 
Clinical benefit rate (CBR)*, % (95% CI) 
Median duration of response in months (95% CI) 
Median overall survival (OS) in months (95% CI)  
Survival probability at 12 Months (95% CI) 
*CBR: sCR+CR+VGPR+PR+Minimal response 
Stringent complete response (sCR), n (%) 
Complete response (CR), n (%) 
Very good partial response (VGPR), n (%) 
Partial response (PR), n (%) 
Probability of Maintaining Response at 12 Months (95% CI) 
Median time to response in months (95% CI) 
Median time to best response in months (95% CI) 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
BLENREP in all subsets of the paediatric population in multiple myeloma (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use).  
Table 5. Efficacy of BLENREP in patients with multiple myeloma in study 205678 
2.5 mg/kg  
(N = 97) 
32% (22, 44) 
2 (2%) 
5 (5%) 
11 (11%) 
13 (13%) 
36% (26.6, 46.5) 
11 (4.2 to Not reached) 
0.50 (0.29, 0.68) 
1.5 (1.0, 2.1) 
2.2 (1.5, 3.6) 
13.7 (9.9 to Not reached) 
0.57 (0.46, 0.66) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Maximum concentration for belantamab mafodotin occurred at or shortly after the end of infusion 
while cys-mcMMAF concentrations peaked ~24 hours after dosing. Geometric mean belantamab 
mafodotin Cmax and AUC(0-tau) concentrations were 43 mcg/mL and 4,666 mcg.h/mL, respectively. 
Geometric mean cys-mcMMAF Cmax and AUC(0-168h) concentrations were 0.90 ng/mL and 84 ng.h/mL, 
respectively. 
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme. This 
means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every  
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary.  
The mean steady-state volume of distribution of belantamab mafodotin was 10.8 L. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Biotransformation 
Distribution 
Absorption 
The monoclonal antibody portion of belantamab mafodotin is expected to undergo proteolysis to small 
peptides and individual amino acids by ubiquitous proteolytic enzymes. Cys-mcMMAF had limited 
metabolic clearance in human hepatic S9 fraction incubation studies. 
Drug interactions 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro studies demonstrated that cys-mcMMAF is a substrate of organic anion transporting 
polypeptide (OATP)1B1 and OATP1B3, multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP)1, MRP2, 
MRP3, bile salt export pump (BSEP), and a possible substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). 
Elimination 
Special populations 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Belantamab mafodotin exhibits dose-proportional pharmacokinetics over the recommended dose range 
with a reduction in clearance over time. 
In an animal study, approximately 83% of the radioactive dose of cys-mcMMAF was excreted in the 
faeces; urinary excretion (approximately 13%) was a minor route; intact cys-mcMMAF was detected 
in human urine, with no evidence of other MMAF-related metabolites. 
Belantamab mafodotin was cleared slowly with total plasma clearance of 0.92 L/day and a terminal 
phase half-life of 12 days. Over time, clearance was reduced by 28% to 0.67 L/day with an elimination 
half-life of 14 days. Predose cys-mcMMAF concentrations at each dose were typically below the limit 
of quantification (0.05 ng/mL). 
Elderly patients (≥65 years old) 
No formal studies have been conducted in elderly patients. Age was not a significant covariate in 
population pharmacokinetic analyses. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Renal impairment 
No formal studies have been conducted in patients with renal impairment.  Renal function was not a 
significant covariate in population pharmacokinetic analyses that included patients with normal renal 
function and mild or moderate renal impairment. 
In non-clinical studies, the principal adverse findings (directly related to belantamab mafodotin) in the 
rat and monkey, at exposures ≥1.2 times of the recommended clinical dose of 2.5 mg/kg, were 
elevated liver enzymes sometimes associated with hepatocellular necrosis at ≥ 10 and ≥3 mg/kg, 
respectively, and increases in alveolar macrophages associated with eosinophilic material in the lungs 
at ≥3 mg/kg (rat only). Most findings in animals were related to the cytotoxic drug conjugate, the 
histopathological changes observed in the testes and lungs, were not reversible in rats. 
Body weight 
Body weight was a significant covariate in population pharmacokinetic analyses. Belantamab 
mafodotin Ctau was predicted to be +10% at a body weight of 100 kg (+20% for 130 kg) and -10% at a 
body weight of 55 kg (-20% for 40 kg) compared to the typical patient (75 kg). 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal studies have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment.  Hepatic function was not 
a significant covariate in population pharmacokinetic analyses that included patients with normal 
hepatic function or mild hepatic impairment. 
Animal toxicology and/or pharmacology 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Single cell necrosis in the corneal epithelium and/or increased mitoses of corneal epithelial cells was 
observed in rat and rabbit. Inflammation of the corneal stroma correlating with superficial haze and 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vascularisation was observed in rabbits. Belantamab mafodotin was taken up into cells throughout the 
body by a mechanism unrelated to BCMA receptor expression on the cell membrane.  
Carcinogenesis/mutagenesis 
6. 
6.1  List of excipients 
Reproductive Toxicology 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
Belantamab mafodotin was genotoxic in an in vitro screening assay in human lymphocytes, consistent 
with the pharmacological effect of cys-mcMMAF-mediated disruption of microtubules causing 
aneuploidy. 
No carcinogenicity or definitive genotoxicity studies have been conducted with belantamab mafodotin. 
No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the potential effects of belantamab mafodotin on 
reproduction or development. The mechanism of action is to kill rapidly dividing cells which would 
affect a developing embryo which has rapidly dividing cells. There is also a potential risk of heritable 
changes via aneuploidy in female germ cells. 
Effects on male and female reproductive organs have been observed in animals at doses of 
≥ 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 4 times the exposure of the clinical dose. Luteinized nonovulatory 
follicles were seen in the ovaries of rats after 3 weekly doses. Findings in male reproductive organs, 
that were adverse and progressed following repeat dosing in rat, included marked 
degeneration/atrophy of seminiferous tubules that generally did not reverse following dosing 
cessation.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
The reconstituted solution can be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature (20ºC to 25ºC) or stored 
in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C) for up to 4 hours. Do not freeze. 
Sodium citrate  
Citric acid 
Trehalose dihydrate  
Disodium edetate  
Polysorbate 80  
Reconstituted solution 
Incompatibilities  
6.3  Shelf life  
Unopened vial 
4 years. 
6.2 
Diluted solution 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, the diluted solution can be stored in a refrigerator (2ºC to 8ºC) prior to administration for 
up to 24 hours. Do not freeze. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to equilibrate to room 
temperature prior to administration. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The diluted infusion solution may be kept at room temperature (20ºC to 25ºC) for a maximum of 6 
hours (including infusion time). 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Pack size: 1 vial 
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC to 8ºC). 
Preparation of solution for infusion 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
BLENREP is a cytotoxic anticancer medicinal product. Proper handling procedures should be 
followed. Use aseptic technique for the reconstitution and dilution of the dosing solution.  
Type 1 glass vial sealed with bromobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium overseal with a plastic 
removable cap containing 100 mg powder. 
The recommended dose of BLENREP is 2.5 mg/kg administered as an intravenous infusion once 
every 3 weeks. 
Calculate the dose (mg), total volume (mL) of solution required and the number of vials needed based 
on the patient’s actual body weight (kg). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
reconstituted solution should be a clear to opalescent, colourless to yellow to brown liquid. 
Discard the reconstituted vial if extraneous particulate matter other than translucent to white 
proteinaceous particles is observed. 
2.  Add the necessary amount of BLENREP to the infusion bag containing 250 mL of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion. The final 
concentration of the diluted solution should be between 0.2 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL. DO NOT 
SHAKE. 
2.  Reconstitute each vial with 2 mL of water for injections to obtain a concentration of 50 mg/mL. 
1.  Remove the vial(s) of BLENREP from the refrigerator and allow to stand for approximately 10 
3.  Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discoloration. The 
3.  Discard any unused reconstituted solution of BLENREP left in the vial. 
1.  Withdraw the necessary volume for the calculated dose from each vial. 
Gently swirl the vial to aid dissolution. Do not shake. 
Dilution Instructions for Intravenous Use 
minutes to reach room temperature.  
Reconstitution  
If the diluted solution is not used immediately, it may be stored in a refrigerator (2ºC to 8ºC) for up to 
24 hours prior to administration. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to equilibrate to room 
temperature prior to administration. The diluted solution may be kept at room temperature (20ºC to 
25ºC) for a maximum of 6 hours (including infusion time). 
Administration Instructions 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Administer the diluted solution by intravenous infusion over a minimum of 30 minutes using an 
infusion set made of polyvinyl chloride or polyolefin. 
2.  Filtration of the diluted solution is not required. However, if the diluted solution is filtered, 
polyethersulfone (PES) based filter is recommended. 
9. 
Disposal 
EU/1/20/1474/001 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Date of first authorisation: 25 August 2020 
Date of latest renewal: 29 June 2022 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
ANNEX II 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
C. 
D. 
B. 
E. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
• 
AUTHORISATION 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
Sigma-Aldrich Manufacturing LLC 
3300 South Second Street, 
St. Louis, MO 63118 
USA 
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA 
Strada Provinciale Asolana, 90, 
San Polo di Torrile, Parma 43056, 
Italy 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR periodic safety update 
report for this product within 6 months following authorisation. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
• 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The educational programme is aimed at helping haematologists/oncologists, eye care professionals and 
patients understand the corneal risks associated with belantamab mafodotin, so that corneal 
examination findings, and/or visual changes can be promptly identified and managed according to the 
product labelling. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to the launch of BLENREP (belantamab mafodotin) in each Member State the MAH must agree 
about the content and format of the educational materials, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme with the National Competent 
Authority.  
Key elements to be included 
•  Educational materials for the patient 
haematologists/oncologists/eye care professionals):  
The healthcare professional’s corneal adverse reaction guides 
•  Educational materials for Healthcare professionals (HCPs) (includes 
The HCPs corneal adverse reaction guides will contain the following key information: 
•  Summary of the Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Package Leaflet (PL)  
o  Corneal adverse reaction guides 
o  Eye care screening sheet 
o  Corneal adverse reaction guides 
o  Patient and pharmacy eye drop wallet cards. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where BLENREP (belantamab mafodotin) is 
marketed, all healthcare professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe, dispense and 
receive BLENREP (belantamab mafodotin) have access to/are provided with the following 
educational materials to be disseminated through professional bodies consisting of the following: 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Ophthalmic examinations, including assessment of visual acuity and slit lamp examination, 
should be performed at baseline, before the subsequent 3 treatment cycles, and as clinically 
indicated whilst on treatment. 
Relevant information of the safety concern keratopathy or microcyst-like epithelial changes in the 
corneal epithelium: 
•  Advise patients that corneal adverse reactions may occur during treatment.  
•  Patients with a history of dry eyes are more prone to develop changes in the corneal 
modification (delay and/or reduction) or treatment discontinuation based on severity of 
findings. 
Details on how to minimise the safety concern addressed by the additional risk minimisation measures 
through appropriate monitoring: 
•  Patients experiencing keratopathy with or without changes in visual acuity may require a dose 
•  Patients should be advised to administer preservative-free artificial tears at least 4 times a day 
•  Patients should avoid using contact lenses until the end of treatment.  
•  Patients should consult their haematologist/oncologist if corneal adverse reactions occur.  
•  Patients who report corneal symptoms should be referred to an eye care professional.  
•  Patients should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery.  
Key messages to convey during patient counselling:  
•  Emphasise the need to consult the SmPC.  
during treatment.   
epithelium. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthcare professionals’ training material 
Anatomy and physiology of the eye:  
• 
Images of the eye are provided and reviewed. 
• 
•  Keratopathy is characterised based on exam findings and patient reported outcomes. 
Eye care screening sheet: 
Description of eye exams: 
Patient corneal adverse reaction guides 
The patient corneal adverse reaction guides will contain the following key information:  
distinctions in the visual environment.  
corrected and managed by the patients.  
•  Summary of visual acuity scores (20/20 vs <20/20) and how a score less than 20/20 can be 
•  Use of slit lamp exams provide detailed information on the anatomical structures in the eye. 
•  Description of visual acuity provides a measure of the visual system’s ability to discern fine 
•  Best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) refers to the visual acuity achieved with correction (such 
They can help detect a range of conditions, including keratopathy or microcyst-like epithelial 
changes in the corneal epithelium (as seen on eye examination).  
as glasses), as measured on the standard Snellen Visual Acuity Chart, monocularly and 
binocularly.  
Includes important information related to corneal adverse reactions associated with 
belantamab mafodotin, adverse event management, and instructions to facilitate 
communication between prescribers and eye care professionals for patients.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Ophthalmic examinations, including assessment of visual acuity and slit lamp examination, 
should be performed at baseline, before the subsequent 3 treatment cycles, and as clinically 
indicated whilst on treatment.  
o 
o 
o  blurred vision;  
o  pain in their eyes;  
o  excessive watering of their eyes.  
If you experience changes with your vision whilst on belantamab mafodotin, contact your 
haematologist/oncologist. Symptoms include the following:  
modification (delay and/or reduction) or treatment discontinuation based on severity of 
findings.   
•  Tell your haematologist/oncologist about any history of vision or eye problems.  
•  Consult the PL.  
redness, dryness, itching, burning sensation, or sandy or gritty sensation in their eyes;  
sensitivity to light;  
•  Patients experiencing keratopathy with or without changes in visual acuity may require a dose 
•  Corneal adverse reactions may occur during treatment. Patients with a history of dry eyes are 
If you experience changes in your vision or eyes after initiating treatment (changes have 
improved, persisted, or worsened since your last appointment), contact your 
haematologist/oncologist.  
more prone to develop changes in the corneal epithelium.  
A description of the sign and symptoms of the risk of keratopathy:  
• 
• 
•  Your HCP will ask you to use eye drops called preservative-free artificial tears during 
treatment. Administer them as instructed.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient eye drop wallet card:  
•  Patient wallet card indicates the patient is on treatment with belantamab mafodotin and 
contains contact information for the haematologist/oncologist and the eye care professional.  
•  Present to HCPs during follow up visits. 
E. 
Pharmacy eye drop wallet card:  
Due date 
February 
2023 
preservative-free artificial tears for use, as directed. 
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a(4) of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
•  Patients to present the pharmacy wallet card to the pharmacist to find eye drops called 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
Description 
In order to confirm the efficacy and safety of BLENREP in relapsed/refractory 
multiple myeloma adult patients, who have received at least four prior therapies 
and whose disease is refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one 
immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy, the MAH should submit the 
results of the DREAMM-2 (205678) study investigating the efficacy of 
belantamab mafodotin in patients with multiple myeloma who had 3 or more 
prior lines of treatment, are refractory to a proteasome inhibitor and an 
immunomodulatory agent and have failed an anti-CD38 antibody. 
In order to confirm the efficacy and safety of BLENREP in multiple myeloma 
adult patients, who have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease 
is refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, 
and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated disease 
progression on the last therapy, the MAH should submit the results of the 
DREAMM-3 (207495) study comparing the efficacy of belantamab mafodotin 
vs. pomalidomide plus low dose dexamethasone (pom/dex) in patients with 
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
July 2024 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
A. LABELLING  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
3. 
2. 
4. 
1 vial. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Each vial contains 100 mg of belantamab mafodotin (50 mg/ mL after reconstitution) 
Also contains: sodium citrate, citric acid, trehalose dihydrate, disodium edetate, polysorbate 80. 
BLENREP 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
belantamab mafodotin 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
For intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
For single use only. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTEOF ADMINISTRATION  
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
Cytotoxic: handle with caution 
Press here to open 
EXPIRY DATE  
6. 
7. 
8. 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
15. 
Lot 
EU/1/20/1474/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited, 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
PC  
SN  
NN 
18. 
16. 
17. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
3. 
1. 
4. 
5. 
Lot 
EXP 
EXPIRY DATE  
BATCH NUMBER  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
BLENREP 100 mg powder for concentrate  
belantamab mafodotin 
IV 
cytotoxic 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
OTHER  
100 mg 
6. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
BLENREP 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
belantamab mafodotin 
- 
- 
- 
information for you. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What BLENREP is and what it is used for 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
1.  What BLENREP is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given BLENREP 
3.  How BLENREP is given  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store BLENREP 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
BLENREP can cause dry eyes, blurred vision or other eye problems.  
You should have an eye examination by an eye specialist before starting treatment and for the next 
three doses of BLENREP. Your doctor may request further eye tests whilst on treatment with 
BLENREP. Even if your vision seems fine, it is important that you get your eyes checked during 
treatment with BLENREP because some changes can happen without symptoms and may only be seen 
on an eye examination. 
BLENREP contains the active substance belantamab mafodotin, a monoclonal antibody connected to 
an anticancer substance that can kill multiple myeloma cells. The monoclonal antibody is a protein 
designed to find the multiple myeloma cancer cells in your body and bind to them.  
Once attached to the cancer cells, the anticancer substance is released and kills the cancer cells. 
if you are allergic to belantamab mafodotin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6).  
BLENREP is used to treat adults who have cancer of the bone marrow called multiple myeloma. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given BLENREP  
  Check with your doctor if you think this applies to you. 
Do not receive BLENREP:  
- 
Warnings and precautions  
Eye problems  
  Do not use contact lenses while you are receiving treatment. 
Your doctor will ask you to use eye drops called preservative-free artificial tears at least 4 times a day 
during treatment to moisten and lubricate your eyes. You should apply them as instructed. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you notice changes with your vision, your doctor may hold treatment with BLENREP or adjust the 
dose or ask you to see an eye specialist. Your doctor may decide to stop treatment with BLENREP. 
  Contact your doctor if you have blurred vision or other eye problems.  
Abnormal bruising and bleeding  
worry you. 
  Tell your doctor if you develop abnormal bleeding or bruising, or any symptoms that 
Infusion-related reactions  
Lung problems (Pneumonitis)  
  See ‘Infusion-related reactions’ in Section 4.  
Your doctor will ask you to have a blood test before you start treatment, and regularly during 
treatment with BLENREP, to check that your platelet levels are normal. 
BLENREP is given by a drip (infusion) into a vein. Some people who receive infusions develop 
infusion-related reactions. 
BLENREP can decrease the number of blood cells called platelets which help to clot your blood.  
Symptoms of low platelets counts (thrombocytopenia) include: 
If you have previously had a reaction to an infusion of BLENREP, or any other medicine: 
  Tell your doctor or nurse before you receive another infusion. 
• 
abnormal bruising under the skin, 
•  bleeding longer than usual after a test, 
•  bleeding from your nose or your gums or more serious bleeding.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Severe and life-threatening inflammation of the lungs has occurred in some people who received 
BLENREP.  
Your doctor may decide to hold or stop treatment with BLENREP if you have these symptoms.  
  Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
This medicine is not intended for use in children or adolescents below 18 years of age. 
Possible symptoms of lung inflammation include: 
•  New onset or worsening cough 
Other medicines and BLENREP 
Children and adolescents  
•  Shortness of breath 
 Tell your doctor if you develop any lung problems or any breathing-related symptoms that 
•  Chest pain  
worry you. 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and fertility  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby: 
  Tell your doctor before you are given this medicine. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant: 
•  Your doctor will ask you to take a pregnancy test before you start treatment with BLENREP. 
•  You must use effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after your last dose 
of BLENREP.  
of BLENREP. 
Breast-feeding  
Driving and using machines  
your doctor if you are not sure. 
If you are a man who could father a child: 
BLENREP can cause problems with vision that can affect your ability to drive or use machines.  
  Do not drive or use machines unless you are sure your vision is not affected. Talk to 
•  You must use effective contraception during treatment and for 6 months after your last dose 
You must not breast-feed during treatment and for 3 months after your last dose of BLENREP. 
It is not known if the medicine passes into breast milk. Talk to your doctor about this. 
Women being treated with this medicine who wish to have children are advised to seek fertility 
counselling and consider options to freeze eggs/embryos before treatment. 
Men being treated with this medicine are advised to have sperm samples frozen and stored before 
treatment. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Before your infusion, you should apply lubricating and moistening eye drops (preservative-free 
artificial tears). You should continue to use the eye drops at least 4 times a day whilst  you are 
receiving treatment with BLENREP.  
BLENREP contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
Your doctor will decide on the correct dose of BLENREP. The dose is calculated based on your body 
weight. 
It is very important to go to all your appointments, to make sure your treatment works. If you miss an 
appointment, make another one as soon as possible. 
The recommended dose is 2.5 mg of BLENREP per kilogram of your body weight. It is given by your 
doctor or nurse as a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion) every three weeks. 
This medicine will be given by your doctor or nurse. In the unlikely event that you are given too much 
(an overdose) your doctor will check you for side effects.  
If you given more BLENREP than you should  
If a dose of BLENREP is missed  
How BLENREP is given  
3. 
  Contact your doctor or hospital as soon as possible to re-schedule your appointment. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion-related reactions  
Some people may have allergic-like reactions when they receive an infusion. These usually develop 
within minutes or hours but may develop up to 24 hours after treatment. 
Symptoms include: 
• 
Other side effects 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people  
Tell your doctor or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects:  
dry eyes. 
flushing 
chills 
fever 
 Read the information under ‘Eye problems’ in Section 2 of this leaflet. 
  Get medical help immediately if you think you may be having a reaction. 
•  eye problems, including disorder of the cornea of the eye (keratopathy), blurred vision, and 
 Read the information under ‘Abnormal bruising and bleeding’ in Section 2 of this leaflet. 
• 
• 
• 
•  difficulty breathing 
• 
rapid heartbeat 
•  drop in blood pressure. 
low number of a type of blood cell called platelets which help to clot blood 
(thrombocytopenia), causing abnormal bruising and bleeding 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
low number of white blood cells in the blood (lymphopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia). 
abnormal blood levels of enzymes indicating liver problems (aspartate aminotransferase, 
gamma glutamyltransferase). 
infection of the lungs (pneumonia) 
fever 
low number of red blood cells which carry oxygen in the blood (anaemia), causing weakness 
and fatigue. 
foamy, frothy, or bubbly-looking urine indicating a high level of protein in your urine 
(albuminuria) 
cold or cold-like symptoms such as cough, runny nose or sore throat. 
•  nausea 
• 
•  diarrhoea  
•  abnormal levels of creatine phosphokinase 
• 
•  vomiting 
sensitivity to light (photophobia) 
feeling tired (fatigue) 
eye irritation 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common:  may affect up to 1 in 10 people  
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
eye sores, possibly with infection (ulcerative and infective keratitis) 
30 
 
 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis) 
• 
•  decreased sensitivity of the cornea of the eye (hypoesthesia of cornea) 
5. 
6. 
How to store BLENREP  
What BLENREP contains 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
The active substance is belantamab mafodotin. One vial of powder contains 100 mg of belantamab 
mafodotin. After reconstitution the solution contains 50 mg belantamab mafodotin per mL. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC–8ºC). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
12 Riverwalk  
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA 
Strada Provinciale Asolana, 90 
San Polo di Torrile, Parma 43056 
Italy 
BLENREP is presented as a white to yellow powder in a glass vial with a rubber stopper and a plastic 
removable cap. Each carton contains one vial. 
The other ingredients are sodium citrate, citric acid, trehalose dihydrate, disodium edetate and 
polysorbate 80 (see section 2 “BLENREP contains sodium”). 
What BLENREP looks like and contents of the pack 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Tel: + 370 80000334 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0) 33 2081100 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 36044 8701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
România 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 40 800672524 
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +385 800787089 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 386 80688869 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700  
es-ci@gsk.com 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com  
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: + 354 535 7000 
Italia 
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741111 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
Other sources of information 
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 371 80205045 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Ltd 
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Step-by-step instructions for use and handling, reconstitution, and administration 
Reconstitution 
Preparation of solution for infusion 
minutes to reach room temperature. 
Gently swirl the vial to aid dissolution. Do not shake. 
The trade name and batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded in the patient 
file. 
3.  Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discoloration. The 
1.  Remove the vial(s) of BLENREP from the refrigerator and allow to stand for approximately 10 
2.  Reconstitute each vial with 2 mL of water for injections to obtain a concentration of 50 mg/mL. 
BLENREP is a cytotoxic anticancer medicinal product. Proper handling procedures should be 
followed. Use aseptic technique for the reconstitution and dilution of the dosing solution. 
The recommended dose of BLENREP is 2.5 mg/kg administered as an intravenous infusion once 
every 3 weeks.  
Calculate the dose (mg), total volume (mL) of solution required and the number of vials needed based 
on the patient’s actual body weight (kg). 
reconstituted solution should be a clear to opalescent, colourless to yellow to brown liquid. 
Discard the reconstituted vial if extraneous particulate matter other than translucent to white 
proteinaceous particles is observed. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
If the diluted solution is not used immediately, it may be stored in a refrigerator (2ºC to 8ºC) for up to 
24 hours prior to administration. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to equilibrate to room 
temperature prior to administration. The diluted solution may be kept at room temperature (20ºC to 
25ºC) for a maximum of 6 hours (including infusion time). 
2.  Add the necessary amount of BLENREP to the infusion bag containing 250 mL of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion. The final 
concentration of the diluted solution should be between 0.2 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL. DO NOT 
SHAKE. 
1.  Administer the diluted solution by intravenous infusion over a minimum of 30 minutes using an 
2.  Filtration of the diluted solution is not required. However, if the diluted solution is filtered, 
3.  Discard any unused reconstituted solution of BLENREP left in the vial. 
1.  Withdraw the necessary volume for the calculated dose from each vial. 
infusion set made of polyvinyl chloride or polyolefin. 
polyethersulfone (PES) based filter is recommended. 
Dilution Instructions for Intravenous Use 
Administration Instructions 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for belantamab mafodotin, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for belantamab mafodotin the CHMP is of the opinion that 
the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing belantamab mafodotin is unchanged 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
In view of available data on changes in the subbasal nerve plexus of cornea and decreased sensitivity 
of cornea from the literature, spontaneous reports including evident temporal and dose relationship, a 
positive de-challenge and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC Rapporteur 
considers a causal relationship between belantamab mafodotin and changes in the subbasal nerve 
plexus of cornea and decreased sensitivity of cornea is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC 
Rapporteur concluded that the product information of products containing belantamab mafodotin 
should be amended accordingly. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
36 
 
 
 
 
 
