18 January 2019 
EMA/25279/2019  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
of an orphan medicinal product submitted for type II variation application 
Blincyto (blinatumomab) 
Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
EU/3/09/650 (EMEA/OD/029/09) 
Sponsor: Amgen Europe B.V. 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion (at the designation stage) ....................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
4. COMP position adopted on 6 December 2018 .......................................... 8 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Blinatumomab 
Blinatumomab 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Powder for solution for infusion 
Intravenous use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
L01XC0X 
Sponsor’s details: 
Amgen Europe BV 
Minervum 7061 
4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Micromet AG 
04/06/2009 
24/07/2009 
EU/3/09/650 
Post-designation procedural history 
Sponsor’s name change  
From Micromet AG to Micromet GmbH – EC letter of 
21/01/2012 
Sponsor’s name change 
From Micromet GmbH to Amgen Research (Munich) 
GmbH – EC letter 19/06/2012 
Transfer of sponsorship  
From Amgen Research (Munich) GmbH to Amgen 
Europe BV – EC letter 13/02/2014 
Marketing authorisation type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
A. Moreau / D. Melchiorri 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Amgen Europe BV  
8/03/2017 
25/03/2017 
EMA/H/C/003731/II/0011 
Blinatumomab  
Blincyto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of adults with Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 
positive B-precursor ALL in first or second complete 
remission with minimal residual disease (MRD) greater 
than or equal to 0.1%. Further information on Blincyto 
can be found in the European public assessment report 
(EPAR) on the Agency’s 
website https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/hu
CHMP opinion date 
man/EPAR/blincyto 
15 November 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
B. Dembowska-Bagińska 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
COMP discussion  
COMP opinion date 
10/03/2017 
5/12/2018   
6/12/2018  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion (at the designation stage) 
The COMP opinion on the orphan medicinal product designation was based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
for the purpose of orphan designation, the COMP considered that the indication should be 
broadened to “treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia”; 
of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be 
affecting approximately 1 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was 
made; 
the condition is life-threatening particularly due to the poor long-term prognosis if the disease 
relapses after systemic therapy; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, sufficient justification has been provided that blinatumomab may be of significant 
benefit to those affected by the condition. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia continues to be described in the most recent WHO Classification and 
ICD codes. ALL represents a biologically and clinically heterogeneous group of B/T-precursor-stage 
lymphoid cell malignancies arising from genetic insults that block lymphoid differentiation and drive 
aberrant cell proliferation and survival. In children, ALL is the commonest malignancy accounting for 
approximately 25 % of childhood cancer and it has 5-year event-free survival rates ranging between 
76 % and 86 % in patients receiving protocol-based therapy. In adults, ALL is less common and 
generally carries a worse prognosis with a long-term survival probability less than 35–40 % (Curr 
Hematol Malig Rep (2012) 7:133–143). The condition continues to be designated by the COMP as a 
distinct medical entity.  
The approved therapeutic indication “Blincto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults 
with Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 positive B-precursor ALL in first or second complete 
remission with minimal residual disease (MRD) greater than or equal to 0.1%” falls within the scope of 
the designated orphan indication “treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the positive CHMP benefit-risk assessment, the intention to treat the condition was 
considered justified. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
ALL is a heterogeneous disease with outcomes dependent on patient age, mutational status and co 
morbid conditions.  
Regardless of prognostic factors, the likelihood of initial remission is ≥ 95% in children and 70 to 90% 
in adults. About 75% of children and 30 to 40% of adults have continuous disease-free survival for 5 
years and appear cured. Patients with ALL refractory to induction or re-induction chemotherapy have 
poor prognosis if they do not undergo HSCT. With induction therapy, some patients achieve complete 
remission but the majority of patients relapse.  The long-term event-free survival is only 30-35%. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has submitted a prevalence calculation on data and publications which were from 2012 or 
older. Data obtained from GLOBOCAN, EUCAN and NORDCAN for Europe were also included. This data 
is primarily derived from publications released in 2012. The sponsor has also consulted data from 
SEER. From these sources the sponsor concludes that the prevalence is 1.8 in 10,000 in Europe. The 
data and the conclusion is in line with the calculation provided in the initial marketing authorisation 
maintenance report by the sponsor and accepted by the COMP in October 2015.  
The COMP considered that the calculation and justification for the prevalence was acceptable.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The sponsor has submitted a discussion highlighting that no new products have been authorised since 
their initial marketing authorisation in 2015. In their report from 2015 the sponsor highlighted that the 
following products were authorised for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
The sponsor has noted the introduction of a revised ESMO Guideline for Acute Lymphoblastic 
Leukaemia in 2016 (Hoelzer S. et al). 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is proposing that blinatumomab will be of significant benefit in patients with minimal 
residual disease (MRD). This term is used to assess ALL patients and increasingly sought-for prognostic 
information.  It can be obtained through different methodologies and at different treatment times, 
ranging from pre-phase therapy (prednisone response) to induction day 8-15 (marrow blast cell 
clearance), end of induction (time to Complete response (CR), MRD) and post-induction phase (MRD).  
The CHMP has accepted that MRD identifies a distinct target patient population which can be treated 
with blinatumumab. It also noted that MRD negativity is an important clinical objective in B-cell 
precursor ALL patients with residual disease.  
It is noted that quantification of MRD is a major and well-established risk factor and should be obtained 
whenever possible for all patients also outside of clinical trials. Methods of MRD evaluation and 
standardisation of MRD quantification have been intensively described.  
According to the current ESMO view is summarised in the algorithm below:  
Diagnosis and risk assessment in adult ALL for achievement of CR and risk-oriented post-remission therapy. Major 
diagnostic subsets are identified within 1–2 days to allow start of pre-phase therapy, identify cases eligible to 
targeted therapy (TKI in Ph+ ALL), and set up the MRD study. Pre-phase therapy allows for 
management/prevention of metabolic/infectious/haemorrhagic complications before start of induction therapy, and 
checks HLA identity between patient and siblings. Induction/early consolidation therapy (incorporating CNS 
prophylaxis) aims to induce CR with a deep MRD response, to support subsequent risk and MRD-oriented therapy 
with/without allogeneic SCT. ALL, acute lymphoblastic leukaemia; RT-PCR, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain 
reaction; MRD, minimal residual disease; LAIP, leukaemia-associated immunophenotype; WBC, white blood cells; 
CR, complete remission; CNS, central nervous system; SR, standard risk; HR, high risk; SCT, stem-cell 
transplantation; TKI, tyrosine kinase inhibitor; Ph+, Philadelphia-positive; HLA, human leucocyte antigen. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
The target patient population the sponsor is proposing to treat is associated with the subset identified 
at the bottom of the algorithm under ‘Final risk assessment’ and identified as: Allogeneic SCT +HR 
and/or MRD+. It is noted that there are no authorised or recommended medicines for this subset.  
The sponsor has provided data from two single arm trials which they have conducted according to 
scientific advice given by the CHMP and they have provided one historical comparison.  
Study MT103-202 was an exploratory, open-label, multicenter, single-arm, phase 2 study in adult 
subjects with MRD-positive B-cell precursor ALL.  Subjects were ≥ 18 years of age and were in 
complete hematologic remission with molecular failure or molecular relapse starting any time after 
consolidation front-line therapy (after at least 3 intense chemotherapy blocks) with GMALL standards 
or any time outside GMALL standards. Subjects had MRD at a level of ≥ 1 x 10-4 in any assay with a 
minimum sensitivity of 1 x 10-4. 
Study MT103-203 is a pivotal, open-label, multicenter, single-arm, phase 2 study in subjects ≥ 18 
years of age whose MRD-positive B-cell precursor ALL was in CR as defined by less than 5% blasts in 
the bone marrow after at least 3 intense chemotherapy blocks.  Important exclusion criteria included 
the presence of circulating blasts or current active extramedullary disease, history of clinically relevant 
CNS pathology, or any prior allogeneic HSCT.   
The COMP noted that patients in complete remission who have minimal residual disease (MRD) have a 
poor prognosis. The data from study MT103-203 showed that 77.9% of patients recruited and treated 
with blinatumumab responded. These patients were able to achieve complete molecular remission. 
Complete molecular remission has been associated with longer survival (with or without allogeneic 
stem cell transplantation). It was noted that this finding constituted a clinically relevant advantage in 
the management of the condition.  
The use of a historical comparator trial, while not ideal, was considered to be acceptable in the context 
of this submission as it helped put the efficacy observed in the single arm studies into perspective (N 
Gokbuget et al, Blood Cancer Journal (2016) 6, e473) please see table below: 
Table 1.  Propensity score analysis of historical data set and blinatumomab clinical trial data: CR and 
overall survival 
End point  
      Statistic  
   Historical data set  
Blinatumomab trial (MT103-211) 
CR/CRh rate        Predicted rate (95% CI)  
    26.7% (23.4–30.3%)  49.3% (33.4–65.3%) 
Overall survival    6-month survival rate (95% CI)   33.4% (31.0–36.1%)   57.6% (54.9–60.4%) 
Overall survival   12-month survival rate (95% CI)  17.2% (15.3–19.4%)   39.0% (36.0–42.2%) 
The propensity scores estimates vary slightly compared with weighted analysis and blinatumomab clinical trial 
due to adjustments made with propensity 
score modeling. In the weighted analyses, blinatumomab results are not modified and the historical data are 
weighted to match the distribution of the 
blinatumomab trial. In the propensity score analyses, both results are modified to match the distribution of a 
‘pseudopopulation’ in between the blinatumomab and historical control data set. 
The COMP acknowledged that recent publications evaluating outcomes in adult patients with MRD ALL 
after conventional chemotherapy showed that MRD positive status was associated with shorter overall 
survival and progression free survival. The sponsor’s product has been shown to induce complete 
molecular remission of MRD in the majority of patients treated. . The historical data presented by the 
sponsor provided acceptable justification for the improvement seen in progression free survival 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(remission free survival). This additional time could also be beneficial for treating physicians to prepare 
patients for allogeneic stem cell transplantation in case it is needed.   
It was therefore concluded that the sponsor had provided sufficient data to support the basis of a 
clinically relevant advantage in a patient population for which there are no currently recommended 
treatments.   A recommendation for maintaining the orphan designation was made.   
4.  COMP position adopted on 6 December 2018 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls  entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product. 
the prevalence of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was  
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be 1.8 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening particularly due to the poor long-term prognosis if the disease 
relapses after systemic therapy;  
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Blincyto is of significant benefit as it improves progression free survival 
and overall survival in patients with minimal residual disease in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia for 
which currently there is no authorised treatment.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Blincyto, blinatumomab, 
EU/3/09/650 for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/25279/2019  
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
