7 December 2015 
EMA/677776/2015 
Measures to avoid medication errors with Blincyto  
Educational materials to help use the medicine correctly  
Educational materials will be provided to patients, their carers and healthcare professionals to ensure 
that the cancer medicine Blincyto (blinatumomab) is used in a safe and effective way, and to prevent 
the risk of medication errors.  
Blincyto is used for the treatment of adults with a rare type of blood cancer, ‘acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia’. It is available as a powder that is made into a solution and then given to the patient as an 
infusion (drip) into a vein. Blincyto is infused continuously for 4 weeks (one treatment cycle) using a 
pump device. The pump contains an infusion bag with the medicine; this bag will be changed 
periodically. The doctor will determine how often to change the infusion bag and this will make the 
infusion go faster or slower. 
Medication errors have been reported in 3.2% (6 out of 189) of patients in the main study that led to 
the approval of Blincyto in the EU. Most of these errors occurred either during the preparation of 
Blincyto’s solution for infusion or during the use of the infusion pump. In most cases errors resulted in 
an overdose that did not cause side effects and when side effects did occur they were mostly mild in 
severity and resolved. However, it was considered necessary to provide educational materials to 
ensure that the medicine will be used correctly in clinical practice. 
Information for patients and carers 
  Blincyto is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein continuously for the 4 weeks of each treatment 
cycle using an infusion pump. It is usually given for two treatment cycles. The pump is connected 
to the patient 24 hours a day for 4 weeks. For the first 4-week treatment cycle, patients should 
remain in hospital for at least 9 days, and for the second cycle for at least 2 days. The doctor will 
decide if treatment can be continued at home after the initial stay in hospital. 
 
Patients and carers are advised to be very careful with the pump and tubing: 
  Patients/carers should ensure the tubing stays connected to the pump at all times and that the 
tubing does not become tangled, twisted or blocked (e.g. by lying on them) at any time. If 
blood is found in the tubing, patients should contact the doctor or nurse immediately. 
  Patients/carers should never unlock the pump or change the pump settings. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● Unitsed Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
If the pump alarm goes off at any time, if the pump stops working unexpectedly or if the 
infusion bag empties too quickly, patients/carers should contact the doctor or nurse 
immediately.  
  Patients/carers should keep the pump, the tubing, and area where it is inserted into the vein 
dry at all times. 
 
In case of any concern regarding how the pump is working or patients/carers should contact the 
doctor or nurse. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
 
In the pivotal clinical study medication errors were observed in 3.2% (6 out of 189) of subjects. 
The majority of these errors were reported as overdoses and occurred primarily due to errors with 
the infusion pump or the preparation of Blincyto. Most errors of overdose did not result in an 
adverse event. When adverse events occurred they were consistent with the known safety profile, 
mild in severity, and resolved. 
  Doctors should advise patients not to unlock the pump, modify the pump’s settings or try to fix the 
pump if it seems to be working incorrectly, and to contact the doctor or nurse immediately in case 
of any problem with the pump.  
 
Pharmacists should follow the recommendations in the product information and in the educational 
materials regarding how to prepare the correct dose of Blincyto and how to prepare the solution for 
infusion under aseptic conditions. 
  Nurses should follow the recommendations in the product information and in the educational 
materials regarding how to administer Blincyto safely, programme the pump, change the bag in 
the pump and clean the area where the drip is inserted into the vein. Nurses should also advise 
patients/carers not to change the pump settings and on the need to keep the drip area clean. 
More about the medicine 
Blincyto is a cancer medicine used to treat patients with acute lymphoblastic lymphoma (ALL, a type of 
blood cancer). Blincyto is used when the ALL has come back or has not responded to previous 
treatment. It is used when the patients are ‘Philadelphia-chromosome-negative’ (Ph-). This means that 
some of their genes are not re-arranged forming a special chromosome called the Philadelphia 
chromosome, which is often found in patients with ALL. Blincyto contains the active substance 
blinatumomab. 
More information on Blincyto can be found on the Agency’s website: Human medicines/European public 
assessment reports. 
Measures to avoid medication errors with Blincyto  
EMA/677776/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
