ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
BLINCYTO 38.5 micrograms powder for concentrate and solution for solution for infusion. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial of powder contains 38.5 micrograms blinatumomab. 
Reconstitution with water for injections results in a final blinatumomab concentration of 
12.5 micrograms/mL. 
Blinatumomab is produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate and solution for solution for infusion. 
BLINCYTO powder (powder for concentrate): White to off-white powder. 
Solution (stabiliser): Colourless-to-slightly yellow, clear solution with a pH of 7.0. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
BLINCYTO is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with CD19 positive relapsed or 
refractory B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Patients with Philadelphia chromosome 
positive B-precursor ALL should have failed treatment with at least 2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) 
and have no alternative treatment options. 
BLINCYTO is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome 
negative CD19 positive B-precursor ALL in first or second complete remission with minimal residual 
disease (MRD) greater than or equal to 0.1%. 
BLINCYTO is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year or older 
with Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 positive B-precursor ALL which is refractory or in 
relapse after receiving at least two prior therapies or in relapse after receiving prior allogeneic 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
BLINCYTO is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year or older 
with high-risk first relapsed Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 positive B-precursor ALL as 
part of the consolidation therapy (see section 4.2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated under the direction of and supervised by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of haematological malignancies. Patients treated with BLINCYTO should be given the 
Educational Brochure for Patients and Caregivers and the Patient Card. 
For the treatment of relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL, hospitalisation is recommended for 
initiation at a minimum for the first 9 days of the first cycle and the first 2 days of the second cycle. 
For the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome negative MRD positive B-precursor ALL, 
hospitalisation is recommended at a minimum for the first 3 days of the first cycle and the first 2 days 
of subsequent cycles. 
For paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed B-precursor ALL, hospitalisation is recommended 
at a minimum for the first 3 days of the cycle. 
In patients with a history or presence of clinically relevant central nervous system (CNS) pathology 
(see section 4.4), hospitalisation is recommended at a minimum for the first 14 days of the first cycle. 
In the second cycle, hospitalisation is recommended at a minimum for 2 days, and clinical judgment 
should be based on tolerance to BLINCYTO in the first cycle. Caution should be exercised as cases of 
late occurrence of first neurological events have been observed. 
For all subsequent cycle starts and reinitiation (e.g. if treatment is interrupted for 4 or more hours), 
supervision by a healthcare professional or hospitalisation is recommended. 
Posology 
Relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
Patients with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL, may receive 2 cycles of treatment. A single 
cycle of treatment is 28 days (4 weeks) of continuous infusion. Each cycle of treatment is separated by 
a 14-day (2 weeks) treatment-free interval. 
Patients who have achieved complete remission (CR/CRh*) after 2 treatment cycles may receive up to 
3 additional cycles of BLINCYTO consolidation treatment, based on an individual benefits-risks 
assessment. 
Recommended daily dose is by patient weight (see table 1). Patients greater than or equal to 45 kg 
receive a fixed-dose and for patients less than 45 kg, the dose is calculated using the patient’s body 
surface area (BSA). 
Table 1. BLINCYTO recommended dosage for relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
Patient 
weight 
Greater than 
or equal to 
45 kg 
(fixed-dose) 
Less than 
45 kg 
(BSA-based 
dose) 
Cycle 1 
Days 1-7 
9 mcg/day via 
continuous 
infusion 
Days 8-28 
28 mcg/day via 
continuous 
infusion 
Days 29-42 
14-day 
treatment-free 
interval 
Subsequent cycles 
Days 1-28 
28 mcg/day via 
continuous 
infusion 
Days 29-42 
14-day 
treatment-free 
interval 
5 mcg/m2/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
(not to exceed 
9 mcg/day) 
15 mcg/m2/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
(not to exceed 
28 mcg/day) 
15 mcg/m2/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
(not to exceed 
28 mcg/day) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High-risk first relapsed B-precursor ALL 
Paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed B-precursor ALL may receive 1 cycle of BLINCYTO 
treatment after induction and 2 blocks of consolidation chemotherapy. A single cycle of treatment is 
28 days (4 weeks) of continuous infusion. See table 2 for the recommended daily dose by patient 
weight for paediatric patients. 
Table 2. BLINCYTO recommended dosage for paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed 
B-precursor ALL post-induction chemotherapy 
One consolidation cycle 
Days 1-28 
Patient weight greater than or 
equal to 45 kg 
(fixed-dose) 
28 mcg/day 
Patient weight less than 45 kg 
(BSA-based dose) 
15 mcg/m2/day 
(not to exceed 28 mcg/day) 
Premedication and additional medication recommendations 
In adult patients, dexamethasone 20 mg intravenous should be administered 1 hour prior to initiation 
of each cycle of BLINCYTO therapy. 
In paediatric patients, dexamethasone 10 mg/m2 (not to exceed 20 mg) should be administered orally 
or intravenously 6 to 12 hours prior to the start of BLINCYTO (cycle 1, day 1). This should be 
followed by dexamethasone 5 mg/m2 orally or intravenously within 30 minutes prior to the start of 
BLINCYTO (cycle 1, day 1). 
Anti-pyretic use (e.g. paracetamol) is recommended to reduce pyrexia during the first 48 hours of each 
treatment cycle. 
Intrathecal chemotherapy prophylaxis is recommended before and during BLINCYTO therapy to 
prevent central nervous system ALL relapse. 
Pre-phase treatment for patients with high tumour burden 
For patients with ≥ 50% leukaemic blasts in bone marrow or > 15 000/microlitre peripheral blood 
leukaemic blast counts treat with dexamethasone (not to exceed 24 mg/day). 
MRD positive B-precursor ALL 
When considering the use of BLINCYTO as a treatment for Philadelphia chromosome negative 
MRD positive B-precursor ALL, quantifiable MRD should be confirmed in a validated assay with 
minimum sensitivity of 10-4 (see section 5.1). Clinical testing of MRD, regardless of the choice of 
technique, should be performed by a qualified laboratory familiar with the technique, following well 
established technical guidelines. 
Patients may receive 1 cycle of induction treatment followed by up to 3 additional cycles of 
BLINCYTO consolidation treatment. A single cycle of treatment of BLINCYTO induction or 
consolidation is 28 days (4 weeks) of continuous intravenous infusion followed by a 14-day (2 weeks) 
treatment-free interval (total 42 days). The majority of patients who respond to blinatumomab achieve 
a response after 1 cycle (see section 5.1). Therefore, the potential benefit and risks associated with 
continued therapy in patients who do not show haematological and/or clinical improvement after 
1 treatment cycle should be assessed by the treating physician. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommended dose (for patients at least 45 kg in weight): 
Treatment cycle(s) 
Induction Cycle 1 
Days 1-28 
28 mcg/day 
Consolidation Cycles 2-4 
Days 1-28 
28 mcg/day 
Days 29-42 
14-day treatment-free interval 
Days 29-42 
14-day treatment-free interval 
Premedication and additional medication recommendations 
Prednisone 100 mg intravenously or equivalent (e.g. dexamethasone 16 mg) should be administered 
1 hour prior to initiation of each cycle of BLINCYTO therapy. 
Anti-pyretic use (e.g. paracetamol) is recommended to reduce pyrexia during the first 48 hours of each 
treatment cycle. 
Intrathecal chemotherapy prophylaxis is recommended before and during BLINCYTO therapy to 
prevent central nervous system ALL relapse. 
Dose adjustments 
For patients with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL and patients with Philadelphia chromosome 
negative MRD positive B-precursor ALL receiving BLINCYTO, consideration to discontinue 
BLINCYTO temporarily or permanently as appropriate should be made in the case of the following 
severe (grade 3) or life-threatening (grade 4) toxicities (see section 4.4): cytokine release syndrome, 
tumour lysis syndrome, neurological toxicity, elevated liver enzymes and any other clinically relevant 
toxicities. 
If the interruption of treatment after an adverse reaction is no longer than 7 days, continue the same 
cycle to a total of 28 days of infusion inclusive of days before and after the interruption in that cycle. 
If an interruption due to an adverse reaction is longer than 7 days, start a new cycle. If the toxicity 
takes more than 14 days to resolve, discontinue BLINCYTO permanently, except if described 
differently in the table below. 
Toxicity 
Grade* 
Cytokine 
release 
syndrome, 
tumour lysis 
syndrome 
Grade 3  
Grade 4 
Action for patients greater 
than or equal to 45 kg 
Interrupt BLINCYTO until 
resolved, then restart 
BLINCYTO at 9 mcg/day. 
Escalate to 28 mcg/day after 
7 days if the toxicity does not 
recur. 
Discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently. 
Action for patients less than 
45 kg 
Interrupt BLINCYTO until 
resolved, then restart BLINCYTO 
at 5 mcg/m2/day. Escalate to 
15 mcg/m2/day after 7 days if the 
toxicity does not recur. 
Discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicity 
Grade* 
Action for patients greater 
than or equal to 45 kg 
Convulsion   Discontinue BLINCYTO 
Neurological 
toxicity 
permanently if more than one 
convulsion occurs. 
Interrupt BLINCYTO until no 
more than grade 1 (mild) and for 
at least 3 days, then restart 
BLINCYTO at 9 mcg/day. 
Escalate to 28 mcg/day after 
7 days if the toxicity does not 
recur. For reinitiation, 
premedicate with a 24 mg dose 
of dexamethasone. Then reduce 
dexamethasone step-wise over 
4 days. If the toxicity occurred at 
9 mcg/day, or if the toxicity 
takes more than 7 days to 
resolve, discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently. 
Discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently. 
If clinically relevant, interrupt 
BLINCYTO until no more than 
grade 1 (mild), then restart 
BLINCYTO at 9 mcg/day. 
Escalate to 28 mcg/day after 
7 days if the toxicity does not 
recur. 
Consider discontinuing 
BLINCYTO permanently. 
Interrupt BLINCYTO until no 
more than grade 1 (mild), then 
restart BLINCYTO at 
9 mcg/day. Escalate to 
28 mcg/day after 7 days if the 
toxicity does not recur. 
Consider discontinuing 
BLINCYTO permanently. 
Action for patients less than 
45 kg 
Discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently if more than one 
convulsion occurs. 
Interrupt BLINCYTO until no 
more than grade 1 (mild) and for 
at least 3 days, then restart 
BLINCYTO at 5 mcg/m2/day. 
Escalate to 15 mcg/m2/day after 
7 days if the toxicity does not 
recur. If the toxicity occurred at 
5 mcg/m2/day, or if the toxicity 
takes more than 7 days to resolve, 
discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently. 
Discontinue BLINCYTO 
permanently. 
If clinically relevant, interrupt 
BLINCYTO until no more than 
grade 1 (mild), then restart 
BLINCYTO at 5 mcg/m2/day. 
Escalate to 15 mcg/m2/day after 
7 days if the toxicity does not 
recur. 
Consider discontinuing 
BLINCYTO permanently. 
Interrupt BLINCYTO until no 
more than grade 1 (mild), then 
restart BLINCYTO at 
5 mcg/m2/day. Escalate to 
15 mcg/m2/day after 7 days if the 
toxicity does not recur. 
Consider discontinuing 
BLINCYTO permanently. 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 3  
Elevated liver 
enzymes 
Other clinically 
relevant (as 
determined by 
treating 
physician) 
adverse 
reactions  
Grade 4  
Grade 3  
Grade 4  
* Based on the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Grade 3 is severe, 
and grade 4 is life-threatening. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age), see section 5.1. There is 
limited experience with BLINCYTO in patients ≥ 75 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic analyses, dose adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild to 
moderate renal dysfunction (see section 5.2). The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO have not been 
studied in patients with severe renal impairment. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic analyses, no effect of baseline liver function on blinatumomab exposure is 
expected and adjustment of the initial dose is not necessary (see section 5.2). The safety and efficacy 
of BLINCYTO have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO in children < 1 year of age have not yet been established. 
There are no data for children < 7 months of age. Currently available data in children are described in 
sections 4.8 and 5.1. 
Method of administration 
BLINCYTO is for intravenous use. 
For instructions on the handling and preparation of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
Administer BLINCYTO as a continuous intravenous infusion delivered at a constant flow rate using 
an infusion pump over a period of up to 96 hours. The pump should be programmable, lockable, 
non-elastomeric, and have an alarm. 
The starting volume (270 mL) is more than the volume administered to the patient (240 mL) to 
account for the priming of the intravenous tubing and to ensure that the patient will receive the full 
dose of BLINCYTO. 
Infuse prepared BLINCYTO final infusion solution according to the instructions on the pharmacy 
label on the prepared bag at one of the following constant infusion rates: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Infusion rate of 10 mL/h for a duration of 24 hours 
Infusion rate of 5 mL/h for a duration of 48 hours 
Infusion rate of 3.3 mL/h for a duration of 72 hours 
Infusion rate of 2.5 mL/h for a duration of 96 hours 
Administer prepared BLINCYTO final infusion solution using intravenous tubing that contains a 
sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein-binding 0.2 micrometre in-line filter. 
Important note: Do not flush the BLINCYTO infusion line or intravenous catheter, especially when 
changing infusion bags. Flushing when changing bags or at completion of infusion can result in excess 
dosage and complications thereof. When administering via a multi-lumen venous catheter, 
BLINCYTO should be infused through a dedicated lumen. 
The choice of the infusion duration should be made by the treating physician considering the 
frequency of the infusion bag changes and the weight of the patient. The target therapeutic dose of 
BLINCYTO delivered does not change. 
Change of infusion bag 
The infusion bag must be changed at least every 96 hours by a healthcare professional for sterility 
reasons. 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Neurologic events 
Neurologic events including events with a fatal outcome have been observed. Grade 3 (CTCAE 
version 4.0) or higher (severe or life-threatening) neurologic events following initiation of 
blinatumomab administration included encephalopathy, seizures, speech disorders, disturbances in 
consciousness, confusion and disorientation, and coordination and balance disorders. Among patients 
that experienced a neurologic event, the median time to the first event was within the first 2 weeks of 
treatment and the majority of events resolved after treatment interruption and infrequently led to 
BLINCYTO treatment discontinuation. 
Elderly patients may be more susceptible to serious neurologic events such as cognitive disorder, 
encephalopathy, and confusion. 
Patients with a medical history of neurologic signs and symptoms (such as dizziness, hypoaesthesia, 
hyporeflexia, tremor, dysaesthesia, paraesthesia and memory impairment) demonstrated a higher rate 
of neurologic events (such as tremor, dizziness, confusional state, encephalopathy and ataxia). Among 
these patients, the median time to the first neurologic event was within the first cycle of treatment. 
There is limited experience in patients with a history or presence of clinically relevant CNS pathology 
(e.g. epilepsy, seizure, paresis, aphasia, stroke, severe brain injuries, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, 
cerebellar disease, organic brain syndrome and psychosis) as they were excluded from clinical studies. 
There is a possibility of a higher risk of neurologic events in this population. The potential benefits of 
treatment should be carefully weighed against the risk of neurologic events and heightened caution 
should be exercised when administering BLINCYTO to these patients. 
There is limited experience with blinatumomab in patients with documented active ALL in the CNS or 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). However, patients have been treated with blinatumomab in clinical studies 
after clearance of CSF blasts with CNS directed therapy (such as intrathecal chemotherapy). 
Therefore, once the CSF is cleared, treatment with BLINCYTO may be initiated. 
It is recommended that a neurological examination be performed in patients prior to starting 
BLINCYTO therapy and that patients be clinically monitored for signs and symptoms of neurologic 
events (e.g. writing test). Management of these signs and symptoms to resolution may require either 
temporary interruption or permanent discontinuation of BLINCYTO (see section 4.2). In the event of a 
seizure, secondary prophylaxis with appropriate anticonvulsant medicinal products (e.g. levetiracetam) 
is recommended. 
Infections 
In patients receiving blinatumomab, serious infections, including sepsis, pneumonia, bacteraemia, 
opportunistic infections and catheter site infections have been observed, some of which were 
life-threatening or fatal. Adult patients with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 
performance status at baseline of 2 experienced a higher incidence of serious infections compared to 
patients with ECOG performance status of < 2. There is limited experience with BLINCYTO in 
patients with an active uncontrolled infection. 
Patients receiving BLINCYTO should be clinically monitored for signs and symptoms of infection 
and treated appropriately. Management of infections may require either temporary interruption or 
discontinuation of BLINCYTO (see section 4.2). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytokine release syndrome and infusion reactions 
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) which may be life-threatening or fatal (grade ≥ 4) has been reported 
in patients receiving BLINCYTO (see section 4.8). 
Serious adverse reactions that may be signs and symptoms of CRS included pyrexia, asthenia, 
headache, hypotension, total bilirubin increased, and nausea; uncommonly, these events led to 
BLINCYTO discontinuation. The median time to onset of a CRS event was 2 days. Patients should be 
closely monitored for signs or symptoms of these events. 
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and capillary leak syndrome (CLS, e.g. hypotension, 
hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and haemoconcentration) have been commonly associated with CRS (see 
section 4.8). Patients experiencing capillary leak syndrome should be managed promptly. 
Haemophagocytic histiocytosis/macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) has been uncommonly 
reported in the setting of CRS. 
Infusion reactions may be clinically indistinguishable from manifestations of CRS (see section 4.8). 
The infusion reactions were generally rapid, occurring within 48 hours after initiating infusion. 
However, some patients reported delayed onset of infusion reactions or in later cycles. Patients should 
be observed closely for infusion reactions, especially during the initiation of the first and second 
treatment cycles and treated appropriately. Anti-pyretic use (e.g. paracetamol) is recommended to help 
reduce pyrexia during the first 48 hours of each cycle. To mitigate the risk of CRS, it is important to 
initiate BLINCYTO (cycle 1, days 1-7) at the recommended starting dose in section 4.2. 
Management of these events may require either temporary interruption or discontinuation of 
BLINCYTO (see section 4.2). 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS), which may be life-threatening or fatal (grade ≥ 4) has been observed in 
patients receiving BLINCYTO. 
Appropriate prophylactic measures including aggressive hydration and anti-hyperuricaemic therapy 
(such as allopurinol or rasburicase) should be used for the prevention and treatment of TLS during 
BLINCYTO treatment, especially in patients with higher leukocytosis or a high tumour burden. 
Patients should be closely monitored for signs or symptoms of TLS, including renal function and fluid 
balance in the first 48 hours after the first infusion. In clinical studies, patients with moderate renal 
impairment showed an increased incidence of TLS compared with patients with mild renal impairment 
or normal renal function. Management of these events may require either temporary interruption or 
discontinuation of BLINCYTO (see section 4.2). 
Neutropenia and febrile neutropenia 
Neutropenia and febrile neutropenia, including life-threatening cases, have been observed in patients 
receiving BLINCYTO. Laboratory parameters (including, but not limited to white blood cell count 
and absolute neutrophil count) should be monitored routinely during BLINCYTO infusion, especially 
during the first 9 days of the first cycle, and treated appropriately. 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Treatment with BLINCYTO was associated with transient elevations in liver enzymes. The majority 
of the events were observed within the first week of treatment initiation and did not require 
interruption or discontinuation of BLINCYTO (see section 4.8). 
Monitoring of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyl 
transferase (GGT), and total blood bilirubin prior to the start of and during BLINCYTO treatment 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
especially during the first 48 hours of the first 2 cycles should be performed. Management of these 
events may require either temporary interruption or discontinuation of BLINCYTO (see section 4.2). 
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis, life-threatening or fatal, has been reported in patients receiving BLINCYTO in clinical 
studies and the post-marketing setting. High-dose steroid therapy may have contributed, in some cases, 
to the pancreatitis. 
Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. Patient evaluation may 
include physical examination, laboratory evaluation for serum amylase and serum lipase, and 
abdominal imaging, such as ultrasound and other appropriate diagnostic measures. Management of 
pancreatitis may require either temporary interruption or discontinuation of BLINCYTO (see 
section 4.2). 
Leukoencephalopathy including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes showing leukoencephalopathy have been 
observed in patients receiving BLINCYTO, especially in patients with prior treatment with cranial 
irradiation and anti-leukaemic chemotherapy (including systemic high-dose methotrexate or 
intrathecal cytarabine). The clinical significance of these imaging changes is unknown. 
Due to the potential for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), patients should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms. In case of suspicious events consider consultation with a 
neurologist, brain MRI and examination of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), see section 4.8. 
CD19-negative relapse 
CD19-negative B-precursor ALL has been reported in relapsed patients receiving BLINCYTO. 
Particular attention should be given to assessment of CD19 expression at the time of bone marrow 
testing. 
Lineage switch from ALL to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) 
Lineage switch from ALL to AML has been rarely reported in relapsed patients receiving 
BLINCYTO, including those with no immunophenotypic and/or cytogenetic abnormalities at initial 
diagnosis. All relapsed patients should be monitored for presence of AML. 
Immunisations 
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines during or following BLINCYTO therapy has not 
been studied. Vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended for at least 2 weeks prior to the 
start of BLINCYTO treatment, during treatment, and until recovery of B-lymphocytes to normal 
ranges following last treatment cycle. 
Due to the potential depletion of B-cells in newborns following exposure to blinatumomab during 
pregnancy, newborns should be monitored for B-cell depletion and vaccinations with live virus 
vaccines should be postponed until the infant’s B-cell count has recovered (see section 4.6). 
Contraception 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during and for at least 48 hours, 
after treatment with BLINCYTO (see section 4.6). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medication errors 
Medication errors have been observed with BLINCYTO treatment. It is very important that the 
instructions for preparation (including reconstitution and dilution) and administration are strictly 
followed to minimise medication errors (including underdose and overdose) (see section 4.2). 
Excipients with known effect 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium over a 24 hour infusion, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. Results from an in vitro test in human 
hepatocytes suggest that blinatumomab did not affect CYP450 enzyme activities. 
Initiation of BLINCYTO treatment causes transient release of cytokines during the first days of 
treatment that may suppress CYP450 enzymes. Patients who are receiving medicinal products that are 
CYP450 and transporter substrates with a narrow therapeutic index should be monitored for adverse 
effects (e.g. warfarin) or drug concentrations (e.g. cyclosporine) during this time. The dose of the 
concomitant medicinal product should be adjusted as needed. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during and for at least 48 hours 
after treatment with blinatumomab (see section 4.4). 
Pregnancy 
Reproductive toxicity studies have not been conducted with blinatumomab. In an embryo-foetal 
developmental toxicity study conducted in mice, the murine surrogate molecule crossed the placenta 
and did not induce embryotoxicity, or teratogenicity (see section 5.3). The expected depletions of 
B- and T-cells were observed in the pregnant mice but haematological effects were not assessed in 
foetuses. 
There are no data from the use of blinatumomab in pregnant women. 
Blinatumomab should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit outweighs the 
potential risk to the foetus. 
In case of exposure during pregnancy, depletion of B-cells may be expected in newborns due to the 
pharmacological properties of the product. Consequently, newborns should be monitored for B-cell 
depletion and vaccinations with live virus vaccines should be postponed until the infant’s B-cell count 
has recovered (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether blinatumomab or metabolites are excreted in human milk. Based on its 
pharmacological properties, a risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded. Consequently, as a 
precautionary measure, breast-feeding is contraindicated during and for at least 48 hours after 
treatment with blinatumomab. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of blinatumomab on fertility. No adverse 
effects on male or female mouse reproductive organs in 13-week toxicity studies with the murine 
surrogate molecule (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Blinatumomab has major influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Confusion and 
disorientation, coordination and balance disorders, risk of seizures and disturbances in consciousness 
can occur (see section 4.4). Due to the potential for neurologic events, patients receiving 
blinatumomab should refrain from driving, engaging in hazardous occupations or activities such as 
driving or operating heavy or potentially dangerous machinery while blinatumomab is being 
administered. Patients must be advised that they may experience neurologic events. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The adverse reactions described in this section were identified in clinical studies of patients with 
B-precursor ALL (N = 1 045). 
The most serious adverse reactions that may occur during blinatumomab treatment include: infections 
(22.6%), neurologic events (12.2%), neutropenia/febrile neutropenia (9.1%), cytokine release 
syndrome (2.7%), and tumour lysis syndrome (0.8%). 
The most common adverse reactions were: pyrexia (70.8%), infections – pathogen unspecified 
(41.4%), infusion-related reactions (33.4%), headache (32.7%), nausea (23.9%), anaemia (23.3%), 
thrombocytopenia (21.6%), oedema (21.4%), neutropenia (20.8%), febrile neutropenia (20.4%), 
diarrhoea (19.7%), vomiting (19.0%), rash (18.0%), hepatic enzyme increased (17.2%), cough 
(15.0%), bacterial infectious disorders (14.1%), tremor (14.1%), cytokine release syndrome (13.8%), 
leukopenia (13.8%), constipation (13.5%), decreased immunoglobulins (13.4%), viral infectious 
disorders (13.3%), hypotension (13.0%), back pain (12.5%), chills (11.7%), abdominal pain (10.6%), 
tachycardia (10.6%), insomnia (10.4%), pain in extremity (10.1%), and fungal infectious disorders 
(9.6%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are presented below by system organ class and frequency category. Frequency 
categories were determined from the crude incidence rate reported for each adverse reaction in clinical 
studies of patients with B-precursor ALL (N = 1 045). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Bacterial infectionsa, b 
Viral infectionsa, b 
Infections - pathogen 
unspecifieda, b 
Febrile neutropenia 
Anaemia1 
Neutropenia2 
Thrombocytopenia3 
Leukopenia4 
Cytokine release 
syndromea 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Sepsis 
Pneumonia 
Fungal infectionsa, b 
Leukocytosis5 
Lymphopenia6 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) 
Lymphadenopathy 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
Hypersensitivity 
Cytokine storm 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Tremor 
Tachycardia7 
Hypotension8 
Hypertension9 
Cough 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Abdominal pain 
Rash11 
Confusional state 
Disorientation 
Encephalopathy 
Aphasia 
Paraesthesia 
Seizure 
Cognitive disorder 
Memory impairment 
Dizziness 
Somnolence 
Hypoaesthesia 
Cranial nerve disorderb 
Ataxia 
Flushing 
Dyspnoea 
Productive cough 
Respiratory failure 
Wheezing 
Hyperbilirubinaemiaa, 10 
Speech disorder 
Capillary leak 
syndrome 
Dyspnoea exertional 
Acute respiratory 
failure 
Pancreatitisa 
Back pain 
Pain in extremity 
Bone pain 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disordersa 
Nervous system 
disordersa 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Chest pain14 
Pain 
Weight increased 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased 
Pyrexia12 
Chills 
Oedema13 
Hepatic enzyme 
increaseda, 15 
Decreased 
immunoglobulins16 
Infusion-related 
reactions17 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
a Additional information is provided in “Description of selected adverse reactions”. 
b MedDRA high level group terms (MedDRA version 23.0). 
Event terms that represent the same medical concept or condition were grouped together and reported as a single 
adverse reaction in the table above. The terms contributing to the relevant adverse reaction are indicated below: 
1 Anaemia includes anaemia and haemoglobin decreased. 
2 Neutropenia includes neutropenia and neutrophil count decreased. 
3 Thrombocytopenia includes platelet count decreased and thrombocytopenia. 
4 Leukopenia includes leukopenia and white blood cell count decreased. 
5 Leukocytosis includes leukocytosis and white blood cell count increased. 
6 Lymphopenia includes lymphocyte count decreased and lymphopenia. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 Tachycardia includes sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, tachycardia, atrial tachycardia and 
ventricular tachycardia. 
8 Hypotension includes blood pressure decreased and hypotension. 
9 Hypertension includes blood pressure increased and hypertension. 
10 Hyperbilirubinaemia includes blood bilirubin increased and hyperbilirubinaemia. 
11 Rash includes erythema, rash, rash erythematous, rash generalised, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash 
pruritic, catheter site rash, rash pustular, genital rash, rash papular and rash vesicular. 
12 Pyrexia includes body temperature increased and pyrexia. 
13 Oedema includes bone marrow oedema, periorbital oedema, eyelid oedema, eye oedema, lip oedema, face 
oedema, localised oedema, generalised oedema, oedema, oedema peripheral, infusion site oedema, oedematous 
kidney, scrotal oedema, oedema genital, pulmonary oedema, laryngeal oedema, angioedema, circumoral oedema 
and lymphoedema. 
14 Chest pain includes chest discomfort, chest pain, musculoskeletal chest pain and non-cardiac chest pain. 
15 Hepatic enzyme increased includes alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, 
gamma-glutamyl transferase increased, hepatic enzyme increased, liver function test increased and transaminases 
increased. 
16 Decreased immunoglobulins includes blood immunoglobulin G decreased, blood immunoglobulin A 
decreased, blood immunoglobulin M decreased, globulins decreased, hypogammaglobulinaemia, 
hypoglobulinaemia and immunoglobulins decreased. 
17 Infusion-related reactions is a composite term that includes the term infusion-related reaction and the 
following events occurring with the first 48 hours of infusion and event lasted ≤ 2 days: pyrexia, cytokine release 
syndrome, hypotension, myalgia, acute kidney injury, hypertension, rash, tachypnea, swelling face, face oedema 
and rash erythematous. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Neurologic events 
In the randomised phase III clinical study (N = 267) and the single arm phase II clinical study 
(N = 189) in patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
treated with BLINCYTO, 66.0% of patients experienced one or more neurologic adverse reactions 
(including psychiatric disorders), primarily involving the CNS. Serious and grade ≥ 3 neurologic 
adverse reactions were observed in 11.6% and 12.1% of patients respectively, of which the most 
common serious adverse reactions were encephalopathy, tremor, aphasia, and confusional state. The 
majority of neurologic events (80.5%) were clinically reversible and resolved following interruption of 
BLINCYTO. The median time to the first event was within the first 2 weeks of treatment. One case of 
fatal encephalopathy has been reported in an earlier phase II clinical single-arm study. 
Neurologic events were reported for 62.2% of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive 
relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (N = 45). Serious and grade ≥ 3 neurologic events were 
reported at 13.3% each in adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive relapsed or refractory 
B-precursor ALL. 
Neurologic events were reported for 71.5% of adult patients with MRD positive B-precursor ALL 
(N = 137), 22.6% of patients experienced serious events. Grade ≥ 3 and grade ≥ 4 events, respectively, 
were reported for 16.1% and 2.2% of adult patients with MRD positive B-precursor ALL. 
For clinical management of neurologic events, see section 4.4. 
Infections 
Life-threatening or fatal (grade ≥ 4) viral, bacterial and fungal infections have been reported in 
patients treated with BLINCYTO. In addition, reactivations of virus infection (e.g. Polyoma (BK)) 
have been observed in the phase II clinical study in adults with Philadelphia chromosome negative 
relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL. Patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative relapsed or 
refractory B-precursor ALL with ECOG performance status at baseline of 2 experienced a higher 
incidence of serious infections compared to patients with ECOG performance status of < 2. For 
clinical management of infections, see section 4.4. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) 
In the randomised phase III clinical study (N = 267) and the single arm phase II clinical study 
(N = 189) in patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
treated with BLINCYTO, 14.7% of patients experienced CRS. Serious CRS reactions were reported in 
2.4% of patients with a median time to onset of 2 days. 
Cytokine release syndrome was reported in 8.9% of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome 
positive relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (N = 45), 2.2% of patients experienced serious events. 
No grade ≥ 3 or ≥ 4 events were reported. 
Cytokine release syndrome was reported in 2.9% of adult patients with MRD positive B-precursor 
ALL (N = 137). Grade 3 and serious events were reported for 1.5% each of adult patients with MRD 
positive B-precursor ALL; no grade ≥ 4 events were reported. 
Capillary leak syndrome was observed in 1 patient in the phase II clinical study in adult patients with 
Philadelphia chromosome negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL and in 1 patient in the 
phase II clinical study in adult patients with MRD positive B-precursor ALL. Capillary leak syndrome 
was not observed in adult patients in the phase II clinical study in patients with Philadelphia 
chromosome positive relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL. 
For clinical management of CRS, see section 4.4. 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the randomised phase III clinical study (N = 267) and the single arm phase II clinical study 
(N = 189) in patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
treated with BLINCYTO, 22.4% of patients reported elevated liver enzymes and associated 
signs/symptoms. Serious and grade ≥ 3 adverse reactions (such as ALT increased, AST increased, and 
blood bilirubin increased) were observed in 1.5% and 13.6% of patients respectively. The median time 
to onset to the first event was 4 days from the start of BLINCYTO treatment initiation. 
Elevated liver enzyme events were reported for 17.8% of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome 
positive relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (N = 45), 2.2% of patients experienced serious events. 
Grade ≥ 3 and grade ≥ 4 events, respectively, were reported for 13.3% and 6.7% of adult patients with 
Philadelphia chromosome positive relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL. 
Elevated liver enzyme events were reported for 12.4% of adult patients with MRD positive 
B-precursor ALL (N = 137). Grade ≥ 3 and grade ≥ 4 events, respectively, were reported for 8.0% and 
4.4% of adult patients with MRD positive B-precursor ALL. 
The duration of hepatic adverse reactions has generally been brief and with rapid resolution, often 
when continuing uninterrupted treatment with BLINCYTO. 
For clinical management of elevated liver enzymes, see section 4.4. 
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis, life-threatening or fatal, has been reported in patients receiving BLINCYTO in the 
clinical studies and the post-marketing settings. The median time to onset was 7.5 days. For clinical 
management of pancreatitis, see section 4.4. 
Leukoencephalopathy including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Leukoencephalopathy has been reported. Patients with brain MRI/CT findings consistent with 
leukoencephalopathy experienced concurrent serious adverse reactions including confusional state, 
tremor, cognitive disorder, encephalopathy, and convulsion. Although there is a potential for the 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), no confirmed case of PML has 
been reported in the clinical studies. 
Paediatric population 
BLINCYTO has been evaluated in paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL in 
a phase I/II, single-arm dose escalation/evaluation study (MT103-205), in which 70 paediatric 
patients, aged 7 months to 17 years, were treated with the recommended dosage regimen. 
The most frequently reported serious adverse reactions were pyrexia (11.4%), febrile neutropenia 
(11.4%), cytokine release syndrome (5.7%), sepsis (4.3%), device-related infection (4.3%), overdose 
(4.3%), convulsion (2.9%), respiratory failure (2.9%), hypoxia (2.9%), pneumonia (2.9%), and 
multi-organ failure (2.9%). 
The adverse reactions in BLINCYTO-treated paediatric patients were similar in type to those seen in 
adult patients. Adverse reactions that were observed more frequently (≥ 10% difference) in the 
paediatric population compared to the adult population were anaemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, 
pyrexia, infusion-related reactions, weight increase, and hypertension. 
The type and frequency of adverse reactions were similar across different paediatric subgroups 
(gender, age and geographic region). 
At a dose higher than the recommended dose in study MT103-205, a case of fatal cardiac failure 
occurred in the setting of life-threatening cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and tumour lysis 
syndrome (TLS), see section 4.4. 
BLINCYTO has also been evaluated in paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed B-precursor 
ALL in a randomised, controlled, open-label phase III study (20120215), in which 54 patients, 
aged 1 to 18 years, were treated with the recommended dosage regimen for high-risk first relapsed 
B-precursor ALL. The safety profile of BLINCYTO in study 20120215 is consistent with that of the 
studied paediatric relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL population. 
Other special populations 
There is limited experience with BLINCYTO in patients ≥ 75 years of age. Generally, safety was 
similar between elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age) and patients less than 65 years of age treated with 
BLINCYTO. However, elderly patients may be more susceptible to serious neurologic events such as 
cognitive disorder, encephalopathy and confusion. 
Elderly patients with MRD positive ALL treated with BLINCYTO may have an increased risk of 
hypogammaglobulinaemia compared to younger patients. It is recommended that immunoglobulin 
levels are monitored in elderly patients during treatment with BLINCYTO. 
The safety of BLINCYTO has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Immunogenicity 
In clinical studies of adult ALL patients treated with BLINCYTO, less than 2% tested positive for 
anti-blinatumomab antibodies. Of patients who developed anti-blinatumomab antibodies, the majority 
had in vitro neutralizing activity. No anti-blinatumomab antibodies were detected in clinical studies of 
paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory ALL treated with blinatumomab. 
Anti-blinatumomab antibody formation may affect the pharmacokinetics of BLINCYTO. 
Overall, the totality of clinical evidence supports the finding that anti-blinatumomab antibodies are not 
suggestive of any clinical impact on the safety or effectiveness of BLINCYTO. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdoses have been observed including one patient who received 133-fold the recommended 
therapeutic dose of BLINCYTO delivered over a short duration. Overdoses resulted in adverse 
reactions which were consistent with the reactions observed at the recommended therapeutic dose and 
included fever, tremors, and headache. In the event of overdose, the infusion should be temporarily 
interrupted and patients should be monitored. Reinitiation of BLINCYTO at the correct therapeutic 
dose should be considered when all toxicities have resolved and no earlier than 12 hours after 
interruption of the infusion (see section 4.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01FX07. 
Mechanism of action 
Blinatumomab is a bispecific T-cell engager molecule that binds specifically to CD19 expressed on 
the surface of cells of B-lineage origin and CD3 expressed on the surface of T-cells. It activates 
endogenous T-cells by connecting CD3 in the T-cell receptor (TCR) complex with CD19 on benign 
and malignant B-cells. The anti-tumour activity of blinatumomab immunotherapy is not dependent on 
T-cells bearing a specific TCR or on peptide antigens presented by cancer cells, but is polyclonal in 
nature and independent of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules on target cells. Blinatumomab 
mediates the formation of a cytolytic synapse between the T-cell and the tumour cell, releasing 
proteolytic enzymes to kill both proliferating and resting target cells. Blinatumomab is associated with 
transient upregulation of cell adhesion molecules, production of cytolytic proteins, release of 
inflammatory cytokines, and proliferation of T-cells, and results in elimination of CD19+ cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Consistent immune-pharmacodynamic responses were observed in patients studied. During the 
continuous intravenous infusion over 4 weeks, the pharmacodynamic response was characterised by 
T-cell activation and initial redistribution, rapid peripheral B-cell depletion, and transient cytokine 
elevation. 
Peripheral T-cell redistribution (i.e. T-cell adhesion to blood vessel endothelium and/or transmigration 
into tissue) occurred after start of blinatumomab infusion or dose escalation. T-cell counts initially 
declined within 1 to 2 days and then returned to baseline levels within 7 to 14 days in the majority of 
patients. Increase of T-cell counts above baseline (T-cell expansion) was observed in few patients. 
Peripheral B-cell counts decreased rapidly to an undetectable level during treatment at doses 
≥ 5 mcg/m2/day or ≥ 9 mcg/day in the majority of patients. No recovery of peripheral B-cell counts 
was observed during the 2-week treatment-free period between treatment cycles. Incomplete depletion 
of B-cells occurred at doses of 0.5 mcg/m2/day and 1.5 mcg/m2/day and in a few non-responders at 
higher doses. 
Peripheral lymphocytes were not measured in paediatric subjects. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytokines including IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, TNF-α and IFN-γ were measured and, IL-6, 
IL-10 and IFN-γ were most elevated. Transient elevation of cytokines was observed in the first 2 days 
following start of blinatumomab infusion. The elevated cytokine levels returned to baseline within 
24 to 48 hours during the infusion. In subsequent treatment cycles, cytokine elevation occurred in 
fewer patients with lesser intensity compared to the initial 48 hours of the first treatment cycle. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Philadelphia chromosome negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
A total of 456 patients aged ≥ 18 years of age with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL were 
exposed to BLINCYTO during the phase II and phase III clinical studies described below. 
The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO compared to standard of care (SOC) chemotherapy were 
evaluated in a randomised, open-label, multicentre, phase III study (TOWER). Eligible patients were 
≥ 18 years of age and ECOG status ≤ 2 with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (had > 5% blasts 
in the bone marrow and either relapse at any time after allogeneic HSCT, untreated first relapse with 
first remission duration < 12 months, or refractory to last therapy). 
Patients were randomised 2:1 to receive BLINCYTO or 1 of 4 prespecified, investigator-selected, 
SOC backbone chemotherapy regimens. Randomisation was stratified by age (< 35 years versus 
≥ 35 years of age), prior salvage therapy (yes versus no), and prior allogeneic HSCT (yes versus no) as 
assessed at the time of consent. The demographics and baseline characteristics were well-balanced 
between the two arms (see table 3). 
Table 3. Demographics and baseline characteristics in phase III study (TOWER) 
Characteristic 
Age 
Median, years (min, max) 
Mean, years (SD) 
≥ 65 Years, n (%) 
Prior salvage therapy 
0 
1 
≥ 2 
Prior alloHSCT 
ECOG status - n (%) 
0 
1 
2 
Refractory status - n (%) 
Primary refractory 
Refractory to salvage therapy 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 271) 
SOC chemotherapy 
(N = 134) 
37 (18, 80) 
40.8 (17.1) 
33 (12.2) 
164 (60.5) 
114 (42.1) 
91 (33.6) 
66 (24.3) 
94 (34.7) 
96 (35.4) 
134 (49.4) 
41 (15.1) 
46 (17.0) 
87 (32.1) 
37 (18, 78) 
41.1 (17.3) 
15 (11.2) 
80 (59.7) 
65 (48.5) 
43 (32.1) 
26 (19.4) 
46 (34.3) 
52 (38.8) 
61 (45.5) 
20 (14.9) 
27 (20.1) 
34 (25.4) 
Maximum of central/local bone marrow blasts - n (%) 
≥ 50% 
201 (74.2) 
104 (77.6) 
AlloHSCT = allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
SOC = standard of care 
BLINCYTO was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion. In the first cycle, the initial dose 
was 9 mcg/day for week 1, then 28 mcg/day for the remaining 3 weeks. The target dose of 28 mcg/day 
was administered in cycle 2 and subsequent cycles starting on day 1 of each cycle. Dose adjustment 
was possible in case of adverse reactions. Of the 267 patients who received BLINCYTO, the mean 
number of completed treatment cycles was 2.0; of the 109 patients who received SOC chemotherapy, 
the mean number of treatment cycles was 1.3. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was overall survival (OS). The median OS was 4.0 months (95% CI: 2.9, 5.3) in 
the SOC chemotherapy arm compared with 7.7 months (95% CI: 5.6, 9.6) in the BLINCYTO arm. 
The hazard ratio (95% CI) was 0.71 (0.55, 0.93) between treatment arms favouring BLINCYTO, 
indicated a 29% reduction in hazard rate in the BLINCYTO arm (p-value = 0.012 (stratified log-rank 
test)), see figure 1. Consistency in OS results was shown in subgroups by stratification factors. 
Consistent results were observed after censoring at the time of HSCT; median OS, censored at the 
time of HSCT, was 6.9 months (95% CI: 5.3, 8.8) in the BLINCYTO group and 3.9 months 
(95% CI: 2.8, 4.9) in the SOC group (HR, 0.66; 95% CI: 0.50, 0.88; p-value = 0.004). The mortality 
rate following alloHSCT among all responders who did not receive anti-leukaemic therapy was 
10/38 (26.3%; 95% CI: 13.4, 43.1) in the BLINCYTO group and 3/12 (25%; 95% CI: 5.5, 57.2) in the 
SOC group; such mortality rate at 100 days post alloHSCT was 4/38 (12.4%; 95% CI: 4.8%, 29.9%) 
in the BLINCYTO group and 0/12 (0%; 95% CI: not estimable) in the SOC group. Efficacy results 
from other key endpoints in the study are summarised in table 4. 
Figure 1.  Kaplan-Meier curve of overall survival 
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
S
Median OS, mo 
HR (BLINCYTO/SOC Chemo) (95% CI) 
p-value (2-sided) 
BLINCYTO  
(N=271) 
7.7 (5.6, 9.6) 
SOC Chemo  
(N=134) 
4.0 (2.9, 5.3) 
0.71 (0.55, 0.93) 
0.012 
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0.0 
0 
3 
6 
9 
12 
15 
18 
21 
24 
27 
Number of subjects at Risk 
Months 
BLINCYTO 
SOC Chemo 
BLINCYTO 
SOC Chemo 
271 
134 
176 
71 
124 
41 
79 
27 
45 
17 
27 
7 
9 
4 
4 
1 
0 
0 
A censored subject is indicated by a Vertical Bar l. 
0 
0 
GRH0358 v1 
Table 4. Efficacy results in patients ≥ 18 years of age with Philadelphia chromosome negative 
relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (TOWER) 
Complete remission (CR) 
CRa/CRh*b/CRic, n (%) [95% CI] 
Treatment difference [95% CI] 
p-value 
CR, n (%) [95% CI] 
Treatment difference [95% CI] 
p-value 
Event-free survivald 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 271) 
SOC chemotherapy 
(N = 134) 
119 (43.9) (37.9, 50.0) 
33 (24.6) (17.6, 32.8) 
19.3 (9.9, 28.7) 
< 0.001 
91 (33.6) (28.0, 39.5) 
21 (15.7) (10.0, 23.0) 
17.9 (9.6, 26.2) 
< 0.001 
6-month estimate % [95% CI] 
18-months estimate % [95% CI] 
HR [95% CI] 
30.7 (25.0, 36.5) 
9.5 (5.1, 15.6) 
12.5 (7.2, 19.2) 
7.9 (3.7, 14.2) 
0.55 (0.43, 0.71) 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of haematological response- 
Median time to event [95% CI] 
CR 
CR/CRh*/CRi 
MRDe response for CR/CRh*/CRi  
MRD evaluable patients (%) 
[95% CI]f 
Duration of MRD response- 
Median time to event [95% CI] 
Postbaseline alloHSCT - n (%) 
Overall subjects 
Haematological responders 
(CR/CRh*/CRi) 
Time to alloHSCT among all 
transplanted patients 
Median time to event 
(Interquartile range) 
Time to alloHSCT among CR/CRh*/CRi 
responders 
Median time to event [95% CI] 
(KM estimate) 
100 day mortality after alloHSCT 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 271) 
SOC chemotherapy 
(N = 134) 
8.3 (5.7, 10.7) 
7.3 (5.8, 9.9) 
7.8 (2.2, 19.0) 
4.6 (1.8, 19.0) 
74/97 (76.3) (66.6, 84.3) 
16/33 (48.5) (30.8, 66.5) 
4.5 months (3.6, 9.0) 
3.8 months (1.9, 19.0) 
65 (24) 
50 (42.0) 
32 (23.9) 
18 (54.5) 
3.7 months (3.0, 5.3) 
(N = 65) 
3.1 months (2.6, 4.3) 
(N = 32) 
11.3 months (5.2, NE) 
(N = 119) 
3.6 months (2.3, 7.2) 
(N = 33) 
n/N (%), [95% CI] 
4/38, 12.4% (4.8, 29.9) 
0/12, 0.0% (0.0, NE) 
a CR was defined as ≤ 5% blasts in the bone marrow, no evidence of disease, and full recovery of peripheral 
blood counts (platelets > 100 000/microlitre and absolute neutrophil counts [ANC] > 1 000/microlitre). 
b CRh* (complete remission with partial haematologic recovery) was defined as ≤ 5% blasts in the bone marrow, 
no evidence of disease, and partial recovery of peripheral blood counts (platelets > 50 000/microlitre and 
ANC > 500/microlitre). 
c CRi (complete remission with incomplete haematologic recovery) was defined as ≤ 5% blasts in the bone 
marrow, no evidence of disease, and incomplete recovery of peripheral blood counts 
(platelets > 100 000/microlitre or ANC > 1 000/microlitre). 
d EFS time was calculated from the time of randomisation until the date of disease assessment indicating a 
relapse after achieving a CR/CRh*/CRi or death, whichever is earlier. Subjects who fail to achieve a 
CR/CRh*/CRi within 12 weeks of treatment initiation are considered treatment failures and assigned an EFS 
duration of 1 day. 
e MRD (minimum residual disease) response was defined as MRD by PCR or flow cytometry < 1 x 10-4. 
f Patients who achieved CR/CRh*/CRi and had an evaluable post baseline MRD assessment. 
Health-related quality of life 
In this open-label study, Health related quality of life (HRQoL) reported by patients were measured 
using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life 
Questionnaire - Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30). In a post-hoc sensitivity analysis, compared to SOC, 
BLINCYTO consistently delayed the time to clinically meaningful deterioration of HRQoL 
(≥ 10-point worsening from baseline) for global health status [median BLINCYTO versus SOC: 
8.1 months versus 1.0 month; HR = 0.60 (95% CI = 0.42, 0.85)], functional scales, symptom scales 
and individual items. Because the health-related quality of life results are based on a post-hoc 
sensitivity analysis, the results should be interpreted with caution. 
BLINCYTO was also evaluated in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm phase II study of 
189 patients (MT103-211). Eligible patients were ≥ 18 years of age with Philadelphia chromosome 
negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (relapsed with first remission duration of 
≤ 12 months in first salvage, or relapsed or refractory after first salvage therapy, or relapsed within 
12 months of allogeneic HSCT, and had ≥ 10% blasts in bone marrow). 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-medication, BLINCYTO dose per treatment cycle and route of administration were identical to 
those in the phase III study. Patients were premedicated with a mandatory cerebrospinal fluid 
prophylaxis consisting of an intrathecal regimen according to institutional or national guidelines 
within 1 week prior to start of BLINCYTO treatment. BLINCYTO was administered as a continuous 
intravenous infusion. In the first cycle, the initial dose was 9 mcg/day for week 1, then 28 mcg/day for 
the remaining 3 weeks. The target dose of 28 mcg/day was administered in cycle 2 and subsequent 
cycles starting on day 1 of each cycle. Dose adjustment was possible in the case of adverse reactions. 
The treated population included 189 patients who received at least 1 infusion of BLINCYTO; the 
mean number of cycles per patient was 1.6. Patients who responded to BLINCYTO but later relapsed 
had the option to be retreated with BLINCYTO. Among treated patients, the median age was 39 years 
(range: 18 to 79 years, including 25 patients ≥ 65 years of age), 64 of 189 (33.9%) had undergone 
HSCT prior to receiving BLINCYTO and 32 of 189 (16.9%) had received more than 2 prior salvage 
therapies. 
The primary endpoint was the complete remission/complete remission with partial haematological 
recovery (CR/CRh*) rate within 2 cycles of treatment with BLINCYTO. Eighty-one of 189 (42.9%) 
patients achieved CR/CRh* within the first 2 treatment cycles with the majority of responses 
(64 of 81) occurring within 1 cycle of treatment. In the elderly population (≥ 65 years of age) 11 of 
25 patients (44.0%) achieved CR/CRh* within the first 2 treatment cycles (see section 4.8 for safety in 
elderly). Four patients achieved CR during consolidation cycles, resulting in a cumulative CR rate of 
35.4% (67/189; 95% CI: 28.6% - 42.7%). Thirty-two of 189 (17%) patients underwent allogeneic 
HSCT in CR/CRh* induced with BLINCYTO (see table 5). 
Table 5. Efficacy results in patients ≥ 18 years of age with Philadelphia chromosome negative 
relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (MT103-211) 
n (%) 
n = 189 
81 (42.9%) 
95% CI 
[35.7% - 50.2%] 
Complete remission (CR)1/Complete remission 
with partial haematological recovery (CRh*)2 
CR 
CRh* 
63 (33.3%) 
18 (9.5%) 
17 (9.0%) 
5 (2.6%) 
5.9 months 
6.1 months 
[26.7% - 40.5%] 
[5.7% - 14.6%] 
[5.3% - 14.0%] 
[0.9% - 6.1%] 
[4.8 to 8.3 months] 
[4.2 to 7.5 months] 
Blast free hypoplastic or aplastic bone marrow3 
Partial remission4 
Relapse5-free survival (RFS) for CR/CRh* 
Overall survival 
1 CR was defined as ≤ 5% of blasts in the bone marrow, no evidence of disease, and full recovery of peripheral 
blood counts (platelets > 100 000/microlitre and absolute neutrophil counts [ANC] > 1 000/microlitre). 
2 CRh* was defined as ≤ 5% of blasts in the bone marrow, no evidence of disease, and partial recovery of 
peripheral blood counts (platelets > 50 000/microlitre and ANC > 500/microlitre). 
3 Blast free hypoplastic or aplastic bone marrow was defined as bone marrow blasts ≤ 5%, no evidence of 
disease, insufficient recovery of peripheral blood counts: platelets ≤ 50 000/microlitre and/or 
ANC ≤ 500/microlitre. 
4 Partial remission was defined as bone marrow blasts 6% to 25% with at least a 50% reduction from baseline. 
5 Relapse was defined as haematological relapse (blasts in bone marrow greater than 5% following CR) or an 
extramedullary relapse. 
In a prespecified exploratory analysis, 60 of 73 MRD evaluable patients with CR/CRh* (82.2%) also 
had a MRD response (defined as MRD by PCR < 1 x 10-4). 
Patients with prior allogeneic HSCT had similar response rates to those without prior HSCT, older 
patients had similar response rates to younger patients, and no substantial difference was observed in 
remission rates based on the number of lines of prior salvage treatment. 
In patients with non-CNS/non-testes extramedullary disease (defined as at least 1 lesion ≥ 1.5 cm) at 
screening (N = 8/189) clinical response rates (25% [95% CI: 3.2-65.1] were lower compared with 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with no evidence of extramedullary disease (N = 181, 43.6% [95% CI: 36.3 - 51.2]) (see 
figure 2). 
Patients with the highest tumour burden as measured by the percentage of bone marrow blast cells at 
baseline (≥ 90%) still had a clinically meaningful response with a CR/CRh* rate of 21.6% (95% CI 
12.9 - 32.7) (see figure 2). Patients with low tumour burden (< 50%) responded best to BLINCYTO 
treatment with CR/CRh* rate of 72.9% (95% CI 59.7 - 83.6). 
Figure 2. Forest plot of CR/CRh* rate during the first 2 cycles for study MT103-211 (primary 
analysis set) 
Subgroup 
Bone Marrow Blast Infiltration  
(Central Lab) 
<50% 
≥50% to <75% 
≥75% to <90% 
≥90% 
Extramedullary Disease at Baseline 
Yes 
No 
Overall 
Rate and 95% Confidence Interval (CI) 
n/N 
Rate (95% CI) 
43/59 
72.9% (59.7%-83.6%) 
8/25 
32.0% (14.9%-53.5%) 
14/31 
45.2% (27.3%-64.0%) 
16/74 
21.6% (12.9%-32.7%) 
2/8 
25.0% (3.2%-65.1%) 
79/181 
43.6% (36.3%-51.2%) 
81/189 
42.9% (35.7%-50.2%) 
0 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 
Percent Achieving CR/CRh* 
GRH0148v2 
n = number of patients who achieved CR or CRh* in the first 2 cycles of treatment in the specified subgroup. 
N = total number of patients in the specified subgroup. 
There is limited data in patients with late first relapse of B-precursor ALL defined as a relapse 
occurring more than 12 months after first remission or more than 12 months after HSCT in the first 
remission. In clinical phase II studies, 88.9% (8/9) of patients with late first relapse as defined in the 
individual studies achieved CR/CRh* within the first 2 treatment cycles with 62.5% (6/9) achieving 
MRD response and 37.5% (3/9) undergoing allogeneic HSCT after treatment with BLINCYTO. The 
median overall survival (OS) was 17.7 months (95% CI 3.1 - not estimable). 
In the randomised, open-label, multicentre, phase III study (TOWER), 70% (7/10) of post-transplant 
patients in late first relapse treated with BLINCYTO compared to 20% (1/5) treated with SOC 
chemotherapy achieved CR/CRh* within the first 2 treatment cycles. Fifty percent (5/10) compared to 
0% (0/5) achieved MRD response and 20% (2/10) compared to 40% (2/5) underwent allogeneic HSCT 
after treatment. The median OS was 15.6 months (95% CI 5.5 – not estimable) for the BLINCYTO 
group and 5.3 months (95% CI 1.1 – not estimable) for the SOC chemotherapy group. 
Philadelphia chromosome positive relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL in adult patients 
The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO were evaluated in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm 
phase II study (ALCANTARA). Eligible patients were ≥ 18 years of age with Philadelphia 
chromosome positive B precursor ALL: relapsed or refractory to at least 1 second generation or later 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI); OR intolerant to second generation TKI, and intolerant or refractory to 
imatinib mesylate. 
BLINCYTO was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion. In the first cycle, the initial dose 
was 9 mcg/day for week 1, then 28 mcg/day for the remaining 3 weeks. The dose of 28 mcg/day was 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administered in cycle 2 and subsequent cycles starting on day 1 of each cycle. Dose adjustment was 
possible in case of adverse reactions. The treated population included 45 patients who received at least 
one infusion of BLINCYTO; the mean number of treatment cycles was 2.2 (see table 6 for patient 
demographics and baseline characteristics). 
Table 6: Demographics and baseline characteristics in phase II study (ALCANTARA) 
Characteristic 
Age 
Median, years (min, max) 
Mean, years (SD) 
≥ 65 Years and < 75 years, n (%) 
≥ 75 Years, n (%) 
Males, n (%) 
Race, n (%) 
Asian 
Black (or African American) 
Other 
White 
Disease History, n (%) 
Prior TKI treatmenta 
1 
2 
≥ 3 
Prior salvage therapy 
Prior alloHSCTb  
Bone marrow blastsc, n (%) 
≥ 50% to < 75% 
≥ 75% 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 45) 
55 (23, 78) 
52.8 (15) 
10 (22.2) 
2 (4.4) 
24 (53.3) 
1 (2.2) 
3 (6.7) 
2 (4.4) 
39 (86.7) 
7 (15.6) 
21 (46.7) 
17 (37.8) 
31 (61.9) 
20 (44.4) 
6 (13.3) 
28 (62.2) 
a Number of patients that failed ponatinib = 23 (51.1%) 
b alloHSCT = allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
c centrally assessed 
The primary endpoint was the CR/CRh* rate within 2 cycles of treatment with BLINCYTO. Sixteen 
out of 45 (35.6%) patients achieved CR/CRh* within the first 2 treatment cycles. Of the 16 patients 
with CR/CRh* in the first 2 cycles, 12 of 14 (85.7%) patients with a CR and 2 of 2 (100%) patients 
with a CRh* also achieved an MRD complete response (see table 7). 
Two patients achieved CR during subsequent cycles, resulting in a cumulative CR rate of 
35.6% (16 out of 45; 95% CI: 21.9 – 51.2). Five out of 16 (31.3%) patients underwent allogeneic 
HSCT in CR/CRh* induced with BLINCYTO. 
Table 7. Efficacy results in patients ≥ 18 years of age with Philadelphia chromosome positive 
relapsed or refractory B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) (ALCANTARA) 
Complete remission (CR)a/Complete remission with partial 
haematological recovery (CRh*)b, n (%) [95% CI] 
CR 
CRh* 
CRic (without CRh*), n (%) [95% CI] 
Blast free hypoplastic or aplastic bone marrow (without CRi)d, n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Partial remissione, n (%) [95% CI] 
Complete MRD responsef, n (%) [95% CI] 
23 
N = 45 
16 (35.6) [21.9, 51.2] 
14 (31.1) [18.2, 46.6] 
2 (4.4) [0.5, 15.1] 
2 (4.4) [0.5, 15.1] 
3 (6.7) [1.4, 18.3] 
2 (4.4) [0.5, 15.1] 
18 (40.0) [25.7, 55.7] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N = 45 
6.7 months [4.4 to NEh] 
Median Relapseg-free survival (RFS) for CR/CRh* [95% CI] 
7.1 months [5.6 to NEh] 
Median Overall survival [95% CI] 
a CR was defined as ≤ 5% of blasts in the bone marrow, no evidence of disease, and full recovery of peripheral 
blood counts (platelets > 100 000/microlitre and absolute neutrophil counts [ANC] > 1 000/microlitre). 
b CRh* was defined as ≤ 5% of blasts in the bone marrow, no evidence of disease, and partial recovery of 
peripheral blood counts (platelets > 50 000/microlitre and ANC > 500/microlitre). 
c CRi (complete remission with incomplete haematologic recovery) was defined as ≤ 5% blasts in the bone 
marrow, no evidence of disease, and incomplete recovery of peripheral blood counts 
(platelets > 100 000/microlitre or ANC > 1 000/microlitre). 
d Blast free hypoplastic or aplastic bone marrow was defined as bone marrow blasts ≤ 5%, no evidence of 
disease, insufficient recovery of peripheral counts: platelets ≤ 50 000/microlitre and/or ANC ≤ 500/microlitre. 
e Partial remission was defined as bone marrow blasts 6% to 25% with at least a 50% reduction from baseline. 
f Complete MRD response was defined as the absence of detectable MRD confirmed in an assay with minimum 
sensitivity of 10-4. 
g Relapse was defined as haematological relapse (blasts in bone marrow greater than 5% following CR) or an 
extramedullary relapse. 
h NE = not estimable 
Patients with the higher tumour burden as measured by the percentage of bone marrow blast cells at 
baseline (≥ 50%) still had a clinically meaningful response with a CR/CRh* rate of 
26.5% (95% CI 12.9 – 44.4). Patients with low tumour burden (< 50%) responded best to BLINCYTO 
treatment with CR/CRh* rate of 63.6% (95% CI 30.8 – 89.1). For patients with high peripheral white 
blood cell counts (≥ 3.0 x 109/L), response rate was 27.3% (95% CI 10.7 – 50.2) while percentage of 
response for those with a lower white blood cell count (< 3.0 x 109/L) was 
43.5% (95% CI 23.2 - 65.5). 
Treatment effects in evaluable subgroups (e.g., mutation status, number of prior TKIs, prior HSCT 
status, and relapse without prior HSCT) were in general consistent with the results in the overall 
population. Patients with T315I mutation, other mutations, or additional cytogenetic abnormalities 
responded with a similar rate as compared to those that did not have these mutations or abnormalities. 
MRD positive B-precursor ALL 
The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO in adult patients with MRD positive B-precursor ALL were 
evaluated in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm phase II study (BLAST). Eligible patients were 
≥ 18 years of age with no prior HSCT, had received at least 3 blocks of standard ALL induction 
therapy, were in complete haematologic remission (defined as < 5% blasts in bone marrow, absolute 
neutrophil count ≥ 1 000/microlitres, platelets ≥ 50 000/microlitres, and haemoglobin level ≥ 9 g/dL) 
and had molecular failure or molecular relapse (defined as MRD ≥ 10-3), see table 8. MRD status at 
screening was determined from bone marrow aspirations using flow cytometry or polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) at a minimum sensitivity of 10-4 based on local site evaluations. A central laboratory 
subsequently confirmed MRD levels by PCR. Final interpretation of MRD results followed EuroMRD 
Consortium guidelines. 
Table 8. Demographics and baseline characteristics in MRD study (BLAST) 
Characteristic 
Age 
Median, years (min, max) 
Mean, years (SD) 
≥ 65 years, n (%) 
Males, n (%) 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 116) 
45 (18, 76) 
44.6 (16.4) 
15 (12.9) 
68 (58.6) 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Characteristic 
Race, n (%) 
Asian 
Other (mixed) 
White 
Unknown 
Relapse history, n (%) 
Patients in 1st CR 
Patients in 2nd CR 
Patients in 3rd CR 
MRD level at baseline*, n (%) 
≥ 10-1 and < 1 
≥ 10-2 and < 10-1 
≥ 10-3 and < 10-2 
< 10-3 
Below lower limit of quantification 
Unknown 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 116) 
1 (0.9) 
1 (0.9) 
102 (87.9) 
12 (10.3) 
75 (64.7) 
39 (33.6) 
2 (1.7) 
9 (7.8) 
45 (38.8) 
52 (44.8) 
3 (2.6) 
5 (4.3) 
2 (1.7) 
* Centrally assessed in an assay with minimum sensitivity of 10-4 
BLINCYTO was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion. Patients received BLINCYTO at 
a constant dose of 15 mcg/m2/day (equivalent to the recommended dosage of 28 mcg/day) for all 
treatment cycles. Patients received up to 4 cycles of treatment. Dose adjustment was possible in case 
of adverse reactions. The treated population included 116 patients who received at least one infusion 
of BLINCYTO; the mean number of completed treatment cycles was 1.8 (range: 1 to 4). 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a complete MRD response within 
one cycle of BLINCYTO treatment. Eighty-eight out of 113 (77.9%) evaluable patients achieved a 
complete MRD response after one cycle of treatment; see table 9. Two subjects achieved a complete 
MRD response with 1 additional cycle of BLINCYTO. MRD response rates by age and MRD level at 
baseline subgroups were consistent with the results in the overall population. RFS in patients with 
Philadelphia chromosome negative B-precursor ALL at 18 months censored at HSCT or 
post-BLINCYTO chemotherapy was 54% (33%, 70%). RFS at 18 months not censored at HSCT or 
post-BLINCYTO chemotherapy was 53% (44%, 62%). 
Table 9. Efficacy results in patients ≥ 18 years of age with MRD positive B-precursor ALL 
(BLAST) 
Complete MRD responsea, n/N (%), [95% CI]  
≥ 65 years old 
Patients in 1st CR 
Patients in 2nd CR 
Patients in 3rd CR 
88/113b (77.9) [69.1-85.1] 
12/15 (80.0) [51.9-95.7] 
60/73 (82.2) [71.5-90.2] 
27/38 (71.1) [54.1-84.6] 
1/2 (50.0) [1.3-98.7] 
17.3 months [12.6-23.3] 
Duration of complete MRD response [95% CI] 
a Complete MRD response was defined as the absence of detectable MRD confirmed in an assay with minimum 
sensitivity of 10-4. 
b One hundred thirteen patients (97.4%; 113/116) were included in the primary endpoint full analysis set. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO compared to standard of care (SOC) consolidation 
chemotherapy were evaluated in a randomised, controlled, open-label, multicentre study (20120215). 
Eligible patients were between 28 days and 18 years of age with high-risk first relapsed Philadelphia 
chromosome negative B-precursor ALL and had < 25% blasts in the bone marrow. High risk patients 
were defined as per IntReALL criteria. Patients with clinically relevant CNS pathology requiring 
treatment (e.g., unstable epilepsy) or evidence of current CNS involvement by ALL were excluded 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from the study. Patients were enrolled and randomised after induction and 2 blocks of consolidation 
chemotherapy. 
Patients were randomised 1:1 to receive BLINCYTO or a third block of SOC consolidation 
chemotherapy. Patients in the BLINCYTO arm received one cycle of BLINCYTO as a continuous 
intravenous infusion at 15 mcg/m2/day over 4 weeks (maximum daily dose was not to exceed 
28 mcg/day). Dose adjustment was possible in case of adverse reactions. Randomisation was stratified 
by age (< 1 year, 1 to 9 years, and > 9 years), bone marrow status determined at the end of the second 
block of consolidation chemotherapy and MRD status determined at the end of induction (blasts < 5% 
with MRD level < 10-3, blasts < 5% with MRD level ≥ 10-3, and blasts ≥ 5% and < 25%). The 
demographics and baseline characteristics were well-balanced between the two arms (see table 10). No 
subject had prior HSCT. 
Table 10. Demographics and baseline characteristics in study 20120215 
Characteristics 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 54) 
SOC Chemotherapy 
(N = 54) 
Age, n (%) 
< 1 year 
1 to 9 years 
≥ 10 to 18 years 
Males, n (%) 
Race, n (%) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Asian 
Black (or African American) 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
Other 
White 
Occurrence and type of any genetic abnormality, n (%)  
No 
Yes 
Hyperdiploidy 
Hypodiploidy 
t(v;11q23)/MLL rearranged 
t(12;21)(p13;q22)/TEL-AML1 
t(1;19)(q23;p13.3)/E2A-PBX1 
t(5;14)(q31;32)/IL3-IGH 
Other 
Extramedullary disease at relapse, n (%)  
No 
Yes 
Cytomorphology, n (%)  
Blasts < 5% 
Blasts ≥ 5% and < 25%  
Blasts ≥ 25% 
Not evaluable 
MRD PCR value, n (%) 
≥ 10-4 
< 10-4 
Time from first diagnosis to relapse (month), n (%) 
< 18 months 
≥ 18 months and ≤ 30 months 
> 30 months 
26 
0 (0.0) 
39 (72.2) 
15 (27.8) 
30 (55.6) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (1.9) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (5.6) 
50 (92.6) 
34 (63.0) 
20 (37.0) 
6 (11.1) 
1 (1.9) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (3.7) 
2 (3.7) 
0 (0.0) 
9 (16.7) 
44 (81.5) 
10 (18.5) 
54 (100.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
10 (18.5) 
20 (37.0) 
19 (35.2) 
32 (59.3) 
3 (5.6) 
0 (0.0) 
38 (70.4) 
16 (29.6) 
22 (40.7) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (5.6) 
3 (5.6) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (9.3) 
43 (79.6) 
29 (53.7) 
25 (46.3) 
6 (11.1) 
0 (0.0) 
4 (7.4) 
3 (5.6) 
2 (3.7) 
0 (0.0) 
10 (18.5) 
40 (74.1) 
14 (25.9) 
51 (94.4) 
2 (3.7) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (1.9) 
13 (24.1) 
22 (40.7) 
22 (40.7) 
28 (51.9) 
4 (7.4) 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was event-free survival (EFS). The study demonstrated statistically significant 
improvement in EFS for patients treated with BLINCYTO as compared to SOC consolidation 
chemotherapy. In patients who received the SOC consolidation chemotherapy, the 36-month 
Kaplan-Meier estimate of EFS, with a hazard ratio (95% CI) of 0.36 (0.19, 0.66) was 26.9% (95% CI: 
13.2%, 42.8%) compared to 55.7% (95% CI: 37.8%, 70.4%) in patients who received BLINCYTO. 
Treatment effects in subgroups (e.g. age, tumour burden/MRD status, time from first diagnosis to 
relapse) were in general consistent with the results in the overall population. See figure 3 and table 11 
for efficacy results from study 20120215. 
Figure 3. Kaplan-Meier curve of event-free survival 
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
S
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0.0 
1: 
2: 
Stratified Log Rank: 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) from stratified Cox regression:  0.36 (0.19, 0.66) 
p = <0.001 
Number of Subjects at Risk: 
54 
54 
0 
35 
49 
3 
22 
37 
6 
17 
28 
9 
13 
24 
12 
11 
22 
15 
9 
21 
18 
8 
19 
21 
5 
15 
24 
Months 
5 
12 
27 
5 
10 
30 
5 
7 
4 
4 
2 
1 
0 
0 
1
v
6
8
3
2
H
R
G
33 
36 
39 
42 
45 
48 
Treatment (N), Median (95% CI) 
1: HC3 (N = 54), 7.4 (4.5, 12.7) 
2: Blinatumomab (N = 54), NE (12.0, NE) 
Table 11. Efficacy results in paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed B-precursor 
ALL (20120215) 
Event-free survivala 
Events (%) 
Median, months [95% CI] 
Hazard ratio [95% CI]c 
p-valued 
Overall survival  
Number of deaths (%) 
36-month estimate (%) [95% CI] 
Hazard ratio [95% CI]c,d 
p-valuee,f 
MRD responseg 
BLINCYTO 
(N = 54) 
SOC Chemotherapy 
(N = 54) 
18 (33.3) 
NEb [12.0, NEb] 
31 (57.4) 
7.4 [4.5, 12.7] 
0.36 [0.19, 0.66] 
< 0.001 
8 (14.8) 
81.1 [65.5, 90.2] 
16 (29.6) 
55.8 [36.9, 71.0] 
0.43 [0.18, 1.01] 
0.047 
Number of MRD response, n1/n2h (%) 
[95% CI] 
p-valuef,i 
44/49 (89.8) 
[77.8, 96.6] 
26/48 (54.2)  
[39.2, 68.6] 
< 0.001 
Note: Efficacy results from primary analysis (data cut-off of 17 July 2019). 
a EFS time was calculated from the time of randomisation until the date of relapse or tumour burden of ≥ 5% and 
< 25% blasts after having achieved a complete remission (CR), failure to achieve a CR at the end of treatment, 
secondary malignancy, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. 
b NE = not estimable. 
c Based on stratified Cox’s model. 
d The updated hazard ratio for OS (data cut-off of 14 September 2020) was 0.33 (95% CI: 0.15 to 0.72). 
e The p-value was derived using a stratified log-rank test. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f Endpoint not formally tested. The p-value was not adjusted for multiplicity. 
g MRD (minimum residual disease) response was defined as MRD by PCR < 1 × 10-4. 
h n1: number of patients who achieved a MRD response after having a baseline MRD ≥ 10-4 or < 10-4; 
n2: number of patients assessed. 
i The p-value was derived using Cochran Mantel Haenszel test. 
The safety and efficacy of BLINCYTO were also evaluated in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm 
study in 93 paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL (second or later bone 
marrow relapse, in any marrow relapse after allogeneic HSCT, or refractory to other treatments, and 
also with > 25% blasts in bone marrow) (MT103-205). This was a two-part study, a dose-finding part 
to determine the appropriate dosing regimen, followed by a single-arm efficacy part using this 
regimen. 
BLINCYTO was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion. In the dose-finding part of the 
study, doses of up to 30 mcg/m2/day were evaluated. The recommended dose for the 
pharmacokinetics (PK) expansion and efficacy parts of the study was determined to be 5 mcg/m2/day 
on days 1-7 and 15 mcg/m2/day on days 8-28 for cycle 1, and 15 mcg/m2/day on days 1-28 for 
subsequent cycles. Dose adjustment was possible in case of adverse reactions. Patients who responded 
to BLINCYTO but later relapsed had the option to be retreated with BLINCYTO. 
The treated population (in the dose-finding, PK expansion, and efficacy parts) included 70 patients 
who received at least 1 infusion of BLINCYTO at the recommended dose; the mean number of 
treatment cycles was 1.5. Among treated patients, the median age was 8 years (range: 7 months to 
17 years), 40 out of 70 (57.1%) had undergone allogeneic HSCT prior to receiving BLINCYTO, and 
39 out of 70 (55.7%) had refractory disease. Most patients had a high tumour burden 
(≥ 50% leukaemic blasts in bone marrow) at baseline with a median of 75.5% bone marrow blasts. 
Twenty out of 70 (28.6%) patients achieved CR/CRh* within the first 2 treatment cycles with 17 out 
of 20 (85%) occurring within cycle 1 of treatment. Four patients achieved M1 bone marrow but did 
not meet the peripheral blood count recovery criteria for CR or CRh*. Eleven of the 20 patients (55%) 
who achieved CR/CRh* received an allogeneic HSCT. The CR/CRh* for patients less than 2 years of 
age was 40.0% (4/10), for patients 2 to 6 years was 30.0% (6/20); and for patients aged 7 to 17 years 
was 25.0% (10/40). Three patients < 1 year of age refractory to prior treatment and without prior 
alloHSCT received one cycle of BLINCYTO at a dose of 5-15 mcg/m2/day. None of the 3 subjects 
< 1 year old achieved a CR/CRh*, 1 patient had progressive disease (OS 2.3 months) and 2 were 
non-responders (OS 1.1 months and 8.7 months, respectively). The type of adverse reactions observed 
in infants were similar to those observed in the overall paediatric population. See table 12 for the 
efficacy results. 
Table 12. Efficacy results in patients < 18 years of age with relapsed or refractory B-precursor 
ALL (MT103-205) 
CRa/CRh*b, n (%) [95% CI] 
CR, n (%) [95% CI] 
CRh*, n (%) [95% CI] 
Complete MRD response for CR/CRh*c, n1/n2d (%) [95% CI] 
CR, n1/n2d (%) [95% CI] 
CRh*, n1/n2d (%) [95% CI] 
Median relapsee-free survival (RFS)e for CR/CRh* [95% CI] 
Median overall survival [95% CI] 
100-day mortality after alloHSCTf 
N = 70 
20 (28.6%) [18.4% – 40.6%] 
11 (15.7%) [8.1% – 26.4%] 
9 (12.9%) [6.1% – 23.0%] 
11/20 (55.0%) [31.5 – 76.9] 
6/11 (54.5%) [23.4 – 83.3] 
5/9 (55.6%) [21.2 – 86.3] 
6.8 months [2.2 to 12.0 months] 
7.5 months [4.0 to 11.8 months] 
n/N (%), [95% CI] 
1/6 (16.7%) [2.5% – 72.7%] 
a CR was defined as M1 marrow (≤ 5% of blasts in the bone marrow), no evidence of circulating blasts or 
extramedullary disease, and full recovery of peripheral blood counts (platelets > 100 000/microlitre and absolute 
neutrophil counts [ANC] > 1 000/microlitre) and no relapse within 28 days. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b CRh*was defined as M1 marrow (≤ 5% of blasts in the bone marrow), no evidence of circulating blasts or 
extramedullary disease, and partial recovery of peripheral blood counts (platelets > 50 000/microlitre and 
ANC > 500/microlitre) and no relapse within 28 days. 
c Complete MRD response No detectable signal for leukaemic cells either by PCR or flow cytometry. 
d n1: number of patients who achieved MRD response and the respective remission status; n2: number of patients 
who achieved the respective remission status. One CR /CRh*responder with missing MRD data was considered 
as a MRD-nonresponder. 
e Relapse was defined as haematological relapse (blasts in bone marrow greater than 25% following CR) or an 
extramedullary relapse. 
f Only patients with HSCT in CR/CRh* remission (with no anti-leukaemia agents used prior to HSCT) are 
included. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of blinatumomab appear linear over a dose range from 5 to 90 mcg/m2/day 
(approximately equivalent to 9-162 mcg/day) in adult patients. Following continuous intravenous 
infusion, the steady state serum concentration (Css) was achieved within a day and remained stable 
over time. The increase in mean Css values was approximately proportional to the dose in the range 
tested. At the clinical doses of 9 mcg/day and 28 mcg/day for the treatment of relapsed or refractory 
ALL, the mean (SD) Css was 228 (356) pg/mL and 616 (537) pg/mL, respectively. The 
pharmacokinetics of blinatumomab in patients with MRD positive B-precursor ALL was similar to 
patients with relapsed or refractory ALL. 
Distribution 
The estimated mean (SD) volume of distribution based on terminal phase (Vz) was 4.35 (2.45) L with 
the continuous intravenous infusion of blinatumomab. 
Biotransformation 
The metabolic pathway of blinatumomab has not been characterised. Like other protein therapeutics, 
blinatumomab is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways. 
Elimination 
The estimated mean (SD) systemic clearance with continuous intravenous infusion in patients 
receiving blinatumomab in clinical studies was 3.11 (2.98) L/hour. The mean (SD) half-life was 
2.10 (1.41) hours. Negligible amounts of blinatumomab were excreted in the urine at the tested clinical 
doses. 
Body surface area, gender and age 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis was performed to evaluate the effects of demographic 
characteristics on blinatumomab pharmacokinetics. Results suggest that age (7 months to 80 years) 
and gender do not influence the pharmacokinetics of blinatumomab. Body surface area (0.37 to 
2.70 m2) influences the pharmacokinetics of blinatumomab. However, the influence is negligible in 
adults and body surface area based dosing is recommended in the paediatric population. 
Renal impairment 
No formal pharmacokinetic studies of blinatumomab have been conducted in patients with renal 
impairment. 
Pharmacokinetic analyses showed an approximately 2-fold difference in mean blinatumomab 
clearance values between patients with moderate renal dysfunction and normal renal function. 
However high inter-patient variability was discerned (CV% up to 96.8%), and clearance values in 
renal impaired patients were essentially within the range observed in patients with normal renal 
function, no clinically meaningful impact of renal function on clinical outcomes is expected. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal pharmacokinetic studies of blinatumomab have been conducted in patients with hepatic 
impairment. Baseline ALT and AST levels were used to assess the effect of hepatic impairment on the 
clearance of blinatumomab. Population pharmacokinetic analysis suggested that there was no 
association between ALT or AST levels and the clearance of blinatumomab. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of blinatumomab appear linear over a dose range from 5 to 30 mcg/m2/day in 
paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL. At the recommended doses of 5 and 
15 mcg/m2/day, the mean (SD) steady state concentration (Css) values were 162 (179) and 
533 (392) pg/mL, respectively. The estimated mean (SD) volume of distribution (Vz), clearance (CL) 
and terminal half-life (t1/2,z) were 3.91 (3.36) L/m2, 1.88 (1.90) L/hr/m2 and 2.19 (1.53) hours, 
respectively. 
The pharmacokinetics of blinatumomab in patients with high-risk first relapsed B-precursor ALL was 
characterized with an estimated mean (SD) Css at 15 mcg/m2/day and CL were 921 (1010) pg/mL and 
0.988 (0.450) L/hr/m2, respectively; the observed values are not considered to be clinically different 
from those in patients with relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL. Volume of distribution and half-
life could not be estimated. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies conducted with blinatumomab and the murine surrogate revealed the 
expected pharmacologic effects (including release of cytokines, decreases in leukocyte counts, 
depletion of B-cells, decreases in T-cells, decreased cellularity in lymphoid tissues). These changes 
reversed after cessation of treatment. 
Reproductive toxicity studies have not been conducted with blinatumomab. In an embryo-foetal 
developmental toxicity study performed in mice, the murine surrogate crossed the placenta to a limited 
extent (foetal-to-maternal serum concentration ratio < 1%) and did not induce embryo-foetal toxicity or 
teratogenicity. The expected depletions of B- and T-cells were observed in the pregnant mice but 
haematological effects were not assessed in foetuses. No studies have been conducted to evaluate 
treatment-related effects on fertility. There were no effects on male or female reproductive organs in 
toxicity studies with the murine surrogate. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Powder 
Citric acid monohydrate (E330) 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Lysine hydrochloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment) 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solution (stabiliser) 
Citric acid monohydrate (E330) 
Lysine hydrochloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vials 
5 years 
Reconstituted solution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C or 4 hours at 
or below 27°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of reconstituting precludes the risks of 
microbial contamination, the reconstituted solution should be diluted immediately. If not diluted 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
Diluted solution (prepared infusion bag) 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 10 days at 2°C - 8°C or 96 hours at 
or below 27°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion bags should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store the vials in the original package in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Each BLINCYTO pack contains 1 vial of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion and 1 vial 
of solution (stabiliser): 
• 
38.5 micrograms blinatumomab powder in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (elastomeric 
rubber), seal (aluminium) and a flip off cap, and 
10 mL solution in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper (elastomeric rubber), seal (aluminium) and 
a flip off cap. 
• 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Aseptic preparation 
Aseptic handling must be ensured when preparing the infusion. Preparation of BLINCYTO should be: 
- 
performed under aseptic conditions by trained personnel in accordance with good practice rules 
especially with respect to the aseptic preparation of parenteral products. 
prepared in a laminar flow hood or biological safety cabinet using standard precautions for the 
safe handling of intravenous agents. 
- 
It is very important that the instructions for preparation and administration provided in this section are 
strictly followed to minimise medication errors (including underdose and overdose). 
Other instructions 
• 
• 
BLINCYTO is compatible with polyolefin, PVC non-di-ethylhexylphthalate (non-DEHP), or 
ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA) infusion bags/pump cassettes. 
At the end of infusion, any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
Preparation of the solution for infusion 
Sterile single-use disposable syringes 
21-23 gauge needle(s) (recommended) 
These supplies are also required, but not included in the package 
• 
• 
•  Water for injections 
• 
Infusion bag with 250 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection; 
o 
To minimise the number of aseptic transfers, use a 250 mL pre-filled infusion bag. 
BLINCYTO dose calculations are based on a usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Use only polyolefin, PVC non-di-ethylhexylphthalate (non-DEHP), or ethyl vinyl acetate 
(EVA) infusion bags/pump cassettes. 
o 
• 
Polyolefin, PVC non-DEHP, or EVA intravenous tubing with a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low 
protein-binding 0.2 micrometre in-line filter. 
o 
Ensure that the tubing is compatible with the infusion pump. 
Reconstitute BLINCYTO with water for injections. Do not reconstitute BLINCYTO vials with the 
solution (stabiliser). 
To prime the intravenous tubing, use only the solution in the bag containing the FINAL 
prepared BLINCYTO solution for infusion. Do not prime with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection. 
Reconstitution of BLINCYTO 
1. 
2. 
Determine the number of BLINCYTO vials needed for a dose and infusion duration. 
Using a syringe, reconstitute each vial of BLINCYTO powder for concentrate using 3 mL of 
water for injections. Direct the water along the walls of the BLINCYTO vial and not directly on 
the lyophilized powder. 
• 
Do not reconstitute BLINCYTO powder for concentrate with the solution 
(stabiliser). 
The addition of water for injections to the powder for concentrate results in a total volume 
of 3.08 mL for a final BLINCYTO concentration of 12.5 mcg/mL. 
• 
3. 
Gently swirl contents to avoid excess foaming. 
• 
Do not shake. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discolouration during 
reconstitution and prior to infusion. The resulting solution should be clear to slightly opalescent, 
colourless-to-slightly yellow. 
• 
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated. 
Preparation of BLINCYTO infusion bag 
1. 
Table 13 for patients weighing greater than or equal to 45 kg 
Table 14 for patients weighing less than 45 kg 
Verify the prescribed dose and infusion duration for each BLINCYTO infusion bag. To minimise 
errors, use the specific volumes described in Tables 13 and 14 to prepare the BLINCYTO 
infusion bag. 
• 
• 
Use an infusion bag pre-filled with 250 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection that usually contains a total volume of 265 to 275 mL. 
To coat the infusion bag, using a syringe, aseptically transfer 5.5 mL of the solution (stabiliser) 
to the infusion bag. Gently mix the contents of the bag to avoid foaming. Discard the remaining 
solution (stabiliser). 
Using a syringe, aseptically transfer the required volume of reconstituted BLINCYTO solution 
into the infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection and the 
solution (stabiliser). Gently mix the contents of the bag to avoid foaming. 
• 
3. 
2. 
• 
Refer to table 13 for patients weighing greater than or equal to 45 kg for the specific 
volume of reconstituted BLINCYTO. 
Refer to table 14 for patients weighing less than 45 kg (dose based on BSA) for the 
specific volume of reconstituted BLINCYTO. 
• 
Discard the vial containing any unused BLINCYTO reconstituted solution. 
Under aseptic conditions, attach the intravenous tubing to the infusion bag with the sterile 
0.2 micron in-line filter. Ensure that the intravenous tubing is compatible with the infusion 
pump. 
Remove air from the infusion bag. This is particularly important for use with an ambulatory 
infusion pump. 
Prime the intravenous infusion line only with the solution in the bag containing the FINAL 
prepared BLINCYTO solution for infusion. 
Store refrigerated at 2°C - 8°C if not used immediately. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
Table 13. For patients weighing greater than or equal to 45 kg: volumes of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, solution (stabiliser), and reconstituted BLINCYTO to 
add to infusion bag 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
Infusion 
duration 
24 hours 
48 hours 
72 hours 
Dose 
Infusion rate 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
10 mL/hour 
10 mL/hour 
5 mL/hour 
5 mL/hour 
3.3 mL/hour 
3.3 mL/hour 
33 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
5.5 mL 
Reconstituted 
BLINCYTO 
Volume 
0.83 mL 
2.6 mL 
1.7 mL 
5.2 mL 
2.5 mL 
8 mL 
Vials 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
5.5 mL 
Reconstituted 
BLINCYTO 
Infusion 
duration 
96 hours 
Dose 
Infusion rate 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
2.5 mL/hour 
2.5 mL/hour 
3.3 mL 
10.7 mL 
2 
4 
Table 14. For patients weighing less than 45 kg: volumes of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection, solution (stabiliser), and reconstituted BLINCYTO to add to infusion bag  
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
24 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
10 mL/hour 
Volume 
0.7 mL 
0.66 mL 
0.61 mL 
0.56 mL 
0.52 mL 
0.47 mL 
0.43 mL 
0.38 mL 
0.33 mL 
0.29 mL 
0.24 mL 
0.2 mL 
Vials 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
24 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
10 mL/hour 
48 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
5 mL/hour 
2.1 mL 
2 mL 
1.8 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.6 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.1 mL 
1 mL 
0.86 mL 
0.72 mL 
0.59 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.2 mL 
1.1 mL 
1 mL 
0.94 mL 
0.85 mL 
0.76 mL 
0.67 mL 
0.57 mL 
0.48 mL 
0.39 mL 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
35 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
48 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
5 mL/hour 
72 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
3.3 mL/hour 
4.2 mL 
3.9 mL 
3.7 mL 
3.4 mL 
3.1 mL 
2.8 mL 
2.6 mL 
2.3 mL 
2 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.2 mL 
2.1 mL 
2 mL 
1.8 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.6 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.1 mL 
1 mL 
0.86 mL 
0.72 mL 
0.59 mL 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
36 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
72 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
3.3 mL/hour 
96 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
2.5 mL/hour 
6.3 mL 
5.9 mL 
5.5 mL 
5.1 mL 
4.7 mL 
4.2 mL 
3.8 mL 
3.4 mL 
3 mL 
2.6 mL 
2.2 mL 
1.8 mL 
2.8 mL 
2.6 mL 
2.4 mL 
2.3 mL 
2.1 mL 
1.9 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.5 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.2 mL 
0.97 mL 
0.78 mL 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
37 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
96 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
2.5 mL/hour 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
8.4 mL 
7.9 mL 
7.3 mL 
6.8 mL 
6.2 mL 
5.7 mL 
5.1 mL 
4.6 mL 
4 mL 
3.4 mL 
2.9 mL 
2.3 mL 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
BSA = body surface area 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1047/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 November 2015 
Date of last renewal: 9 March 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
Lonza Biologics plc 
228 Bath Road 
Slough 
Berkshire, SL1 4DX 
UK 
Amgen Inc 
One Amgen Center Drive 
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320 
USA 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Amgen NV 
Telecomlaan 5-7 
1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of BLINCYTO in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
must agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication 
media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority. 
The educational programme is aimed to inform about important risks associated with BLINCYTO, 
namely medication errors and neurologic events. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where BLINCYTO is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals (HCP) and patients/caregivers who are expected to prescribe, dispense and use 
BLINCYTO are provided with the following educational packages: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Physician educational material 
Pharmacist educational material 
Nurse educational material 
Patient/caregivers educational material 
Patient card 
The physician educational material should contain: 
1. 
2. 
A link to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
The guide for physicians shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
Remarks on the importance of reporting ADRs 
Key information on treatment with BLINCYTO, administration and posology, duration of 
hospitalisation, interruption and/or permanent discontinuation of the treatment 
Request to provide educational materials to pharmacists, nurses and patients/caregivers 
Request to counsel the patient and provide educational materials to patients/caregivers 
• 
• 
Medication errors (ME) 
• 
Key information on medication errors observed with BLINCYTO 
Neurologic events 
• 
• 
Key information on neurologic events observed with BLINCYTO and management of 
neurotoxicity 
Recommendation to monitor patients for signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity 
Counselling the patient 
• 
Key message to convey in patients counselling, namely recommendation for patients: 
o 
o 
o 
Not to drive while receiving BLINCYTO 
How to reduce the risk of ME while using the infusion pump 
To contact the treating physician/nurse if they experience neurological symptoms 
or issues with the infusion pump 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacist educational material should contain: 
1. 
2. 
A link to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
The guide for pharmacists, containing the following key elements: 
• 
• 
Remarks on the importance of reporting ADRs 
Key information on medication errors observed with BLINCYTO and BLINCYTO 
posology 
Key information on the reconstitution and preparation procedures of BLINCYTO 
infusion solution for intravenous administration under aseptic conditions, using aseptic 
techniques 
• 
The nurse educational material should contain: 
1. 
2. 
A link to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
The nurse educational guide, including the following key elements: 
• 
• 
• 
Remarks on the importance of reporting ADRs 
Description of the administration procedures specific to BLINCYTO 
Key information on neurologic events, patient’s monitoring and management of early 
signs and symptoms of neurological events 
Key information on medication errors observed with BLINCYTO 
Key message to convey in patients counselling, namely recommendation for patients: 
o 
o 
o 
Not to drive while receiving BLINCYTO 
How to reduce the risk of ME while using the infusion pump 
To contact the treating physician/nurse if they experience neurological symptoms 
or issues with the infusion pump 
• 
• 
The patient (including caregivers) educational material should contain: 
1. 
The patient information guide, including the following key elements: 
• 
• 
Remarks on the importance of reporting ADRs 
Description of the administration procedures of BLINCYTO and how to reduce the risk 
of ME while using the infusion pump 
Description of the main signs and/or symptoms of neurologic events and the importance 
of notifying the treating physician or nurse immediately if symptoms occur 
Recommendation for patients not to drive while receiving BLINCYTO 
• 
• 
A link to the package leaflet 
2. 
The patient card should contain: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
A warning message for HCPs treating the patient at any time, including emergency 
conditions, that the patient is using BLINCYTO 
Contact details of the BLINCYTO prescriber 
BLINCYTO treatment start date 
Information when to contact the physician or nurse 
Remarks on the importance of reporting ADRs 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): Study 20150136: an 
observational study of blinatumomab safety and effectiveness, utilisation, and 
treatment practices*. 
* The study protocol needs to be developed and presented for PRAC review within 2 months after the EU 
Commission Decision. 
Due date 
Q42022 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): Study 20180130: an 
observational study to further characterise the long-term safety of BLINCYTO 
including developmental aspects, HSCT and secondary malignancy in paediatric 
patients with B-precursor ALL who have been treated with either blinatumomab or 
chemotherapy followed by transplantation*. 
* The study protocol needs to be developed and presented for PRAC review within 3 months after the EU 
Commission Decision. 
Due date 
Q32038 
43 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
BLINCYTO 38.5 micrograms powder for concentrate and solution for solution for infusion 
blinatumomab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of powder contains 38.5 micrograms of blinatumomab. 
After reconstitution with water for injections each vial contains 12.5 micrograms/mL of 
blinatumomab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Powder: citric acid monohydrate (E330), trehalose dihydrate, lysine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80 and 
sodium hydroxide. 
Solution (stabiliser): citric acid monohydrate (E330), lysine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, sodium 
hydroxide and water for injections. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate and solution for solution for infusion 
1 vial of powder. 
1 vial of solution (stabiliser). Add to the sodium chloride bag only. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not shake the reconstituted solution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport refrigerated. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1047/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
POWDER VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
BLINCYTO 38.5 mcg powder for concentrate 
blinatumomab 
IV after reconstitution and dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SOLUTION (STABILISER) VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Solution (stabiliser). 
BLINCYTO 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
10 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
Add to the sodium chloride bag only. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
BLINCYTO 38.5 micrograms powder for concentrate and solution for solution for infusion 
blinatumomab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you the following educational materials: 
- 
Educational Brochure for Patients and Caregivers, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given BLINCYTO and during 
treatment with BLINCYTO. 
Patient Card with contact details of your medical team and information when to call your 
doctor or nurse. Keep this Patient Card with you, at all times. 
- 
- 
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What BLINCYTO is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use BLINCYTO 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use BLINCYTO 
Possible side effects 
How to store BLINCYTO 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What BLINCYTO is and what it is used for 
The active ingredient in BLINCYTO is blinatumomab. This belongs to a group of medicines called 
antineoplastic agents which target cancer cells. 
BLINCYTO is used to treat adults with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia is a cancer of the blood in which a particular kind of white blood cell called 
“B-lymphocyte” is growing out of control. This medicine works by enabling your immune system to 
attack and destroy these abnormal white blood cancer cells. BLINCYTO is used when acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia has come back or has not responded to previous treatment (referred to as 
relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia). 
It is also used in adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia who still have a small number of 
cancer cells remaining after previous treatment (referred to as minimal residual disease). 
BLINCYTO is used to treat children (≥ 1 year old), teenagers and young adults with acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) when previous treatments have not worked or have stopped working. 
2.  What you need to know before you use BLINCYTO 
Do not use BLINCYTO 
- 
if you are allergic to blinatumomab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are breast-feeding. 
- 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using BLINCYTO if any of these apply to you. 
BLINCYTO may not be suitable for you: 
• 
if you have ever had neurological problems, for example, shaking (or tremor), abnormal 
sensations, seizures, memory loss, confusion, disorientation, loss of balance, or difficulty in 
speaking. If you are still suffering from active neurological problems or conditions, tell your 
doctor. If your leukaemia has spread to your brain and/or spinal cord, your doctor may have to 
treat this first before you can start treatment with BLINCYTO. Your doctor will assess your 
nervous system and conduct tests before deciding if you should receive BLINCYTO. Your 
doctor may need to take special care of you during your treatment with BLINCYTO. 
if you have an active infection. 
if you have ever had an infusion reaction after previously using BLINCYTO. Symptoms may 
include wheezing, flushing, face swelling, difficulty breathing, low or high blood pressure. 
if you think you may need any vaccinations in the near future, including those needed to travel 
to other countries. Some vaccines must not be given within two weeks before, at the same time 
as or in the months after you receive treatment with BLINCYTO. Your doctor will check if you 
should have the vaccination. 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately if you experience any of the following reactions 
whilst receiving BLINCYTO as these may need to be treated and your dose adjusted: 
• 
if you experience seizures, difficulty in speaking or slurred speech, confusion and 
disorientation, or loss of balance. 
if you develop chills or shivering, or you feel warm; you should take your temperature as you 
may have a fever - these may be symptoms of an infection. 
if you develop a reaction at any time during your infusion, which may include dizziness, feeling 
faint, nauseated, face swelling, difficulty breathing, wheezing, or rash. 
if you have severe and persistent stomach pain, with or without nausea and vomiting, as these 
may be symptoms of a serious and potentially fatal condition known as pancreatitis 
(inflammation of the pancreas). 
• 
• 
• 
Your doctor or nurse will monitor you for signs and symptoms of these reactions. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately if you became pregnant whilst receiving 
BLINCYTO. Your doctor will talk to you about precautions in using vaccinations for your baby. 
Before each infusion cycle of BLINCYTO, you will be given medicines which help reduce a 
potentially life-threatening complication known as tumour lysis syndrome, which is caused by 
chemical disturbances in the blood due to the breakdown of dying cancer cells. You may also be given 
medicines to reduce fever. 
During treatment, especially in the first few days after treatment start, you may experience a severe 
low white blood cell count (neutropenia), severe low white blood cell count with a fever (febrile 
neutropenia), elevated liver enzymes, or elevated uric acid. Your doctor will take regular blood tests to 
monitor your blood counts during treatment with BLINCYTO. 
Children and adolescents 
BLINCYTO should not be used in children below 1 year of age. 
Other medicines and BLINCYTO 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. 
Contraception 
Women who are able to become pregnant have to use effective contraception during treatment and for 
at least 48 hours after your last treatment. Talk to your doctor or nurse about suitable methods of 
contraception. 
Pregnancy 
The effects of BLINCYTO in pregnant women are not known but based on its mechanism of action, 
BLINCYTO may harm your unborn baby. You should not use BLINCYTO during pregnancy, unless 
your doctor thinks that it is the best medicine for you. 
If you become pregnant during BLINCYTO treatment, please inform your doctor or nurse. Your 
doctor will talk to you about precautions in using vaccinations for your baby. 
Breast-feeding 
You must not breast-feed during and for at least 48 hours after your last treatment. It is not known 
whether BLINCYTO is excreted in breast milk but a risk for suckling baby cannot be excluded. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, use heavy machines, or engage in hazardous activities while you are being given 
BLINCYTO. BLINCYTO can cause neurological problems such as dizziness, seizures, confusion, 
coordination and balance disorders. 
BLINCYTO contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) over a 24-hour infusion, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use BLINCYTO 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse have told you. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
How BLINCYTO is given 
BLINCYTO will be given to you through a vein (intravenous) continuously for 4 weeks using an 
infusion pump (this is 1 treatment cycle). You will then have a 2-week break where you will not be 
given the infusion. Your infusion catheter will be attached to you at all times during each cycle of your 
treatment. 
BLINCYTO is usually given for 2 treatment cycles if you have relapsed/refractory acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia, or for 1 treatment cycle if you have minimal residual acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia. If you respond to this treatment, your doctor may decide to give you up to 3 additional 
cycles of treatment. The number of treatment cycles and the dose which you will be given will depend 
on how you tolerate and respond to BLINCYTO. Your doctor will discuss with you how long your 
treatment will last. In paediatric patients with high risk first relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, 
BLINCYTO will be given for 1 treatment cycle. Your treatment may also be interrupted depending on 
how you tolerate BLINCYTO. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia it is recommended that the first 9 days 
of treatment and the first 2 days of the second cycle will be given to you in a hospital or clinic under 
the supervision of a doctor or nurse experienced in the use of anti-cancer medicines. 
If you have minimal residual acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, it is recommended that the first 3 days of 
treatment and the first 2 days of subsequent cycles will be given to you in a hospital or clinic under the 
supervision of a doctor or nurse experienced in the use of anti-cancer medicines. 
For paediatric patients with high risk first relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia it is recommended 
that the first 3 days of the treatment cycle with BLINCYTO be given to you in a hospital or clinic 
under the supervision of a doctor or nurse experienced in the use of anti-cancer medicines. 
If you have or had neurological problems, it is recommended that the first 14 days of treatment will be 
given to you in a hospital or clinic. Your doctor will discuss with you if you can continue treatment at 
home after your initial hospital stay. Treatment may include a bag change by a nurse. 
Your doctor will determine when your BLINCYTO infusion bag will be changed, which may range 
from every day to every 4 days. The infusion rate may be faster or slower depending on how often the 
bag is changed. 
Your first cycle 
If you have relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and your body weight is greater than or 
equal to 45 kilograms, the recommended initial dose in your first cycle is 9 micrograms per day for 
1 week. Your doctor may decide to then increase your dose to 28 micrograms per day for weeks 2, 3, 
and 4 of your treatment. 
If your body weight is less than 45 kilograms, the recommended initial dose in your first cycle will be 
based on your weight and height. Your doctor may decide to then increase your dose for weeks 2, 3, 
and 4 of your treatment. 
If you have minimal residual acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, your dose of BLINCYTO will be 
28 micrograms per day throughout the first cycle. 
If you are a paediatric patient with high risk first relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and your 
body weight is less than 45 kilograms, the recommended dose for 1 treatment cycle will be based on 
your weight and height. If your body weight is greater than or equal to 45 kilograms, your dose of 
BLINCYTO will be 28 micrograms per day throughout 1 treatment cycle. 
Your next cycles 
If your doctor determines that you should be given more cycles of BLINCYTO and if your body 
weight is greater than or equal to 45 kilograms, your pump will be set to infuse a dose of 
28 micrograms per day. 
If your doctor determines that you should be given more cycles of BLINCYTO and if your body 
weight is less than 45 kilograms, your pump will be set to infuse a dose based on your weight and 
height. 
Medicines given before each cycle of BLINCYTO 
Before your treatment with BLINCYTO, you will be given other medicines (premedication) to help 
reduce infusion reactions and other possible side effects. These may include corticosteroids 
(e.g. dexamethasone). 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion catheter 
If you have a catheter for infusion, it is very important to keep the area around the catheter clean; 
otherwise you could get an infection. Your doctor or nurse will show you how to care for your catheter 
site. 
Infusion pump and intravenous tubing 
Do not adjust the settings on the pump, even if there is a problem or the pump alarm sounds. Any 
changes to the pump settings may result in a dose that is too high or too low. 
Contact your doctor or nurse immediately if: 
• 
• 
• 
there is a problem with the pump or the pump alarm sounds 
the infusion bag empties before the scheduled bag change 
if the infusion pump stops unexpectedly. Do not try to restart your pump. 
Your doctor or nurse will advise you on how to manage your daily activities around your infusion 
pump. Contact your doctor or nurse if you have questions. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Some of 
these side effects may be serious. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of the following or combination of the following side 
effects: 
• 
chills, shivering, fever, rapid heart rate, decreased blood pressure, aching muscles, feeling tired, 
coughing, difficulty breathing, confusion, redness, swelling or discharge in the affected area or 
at the site of the infusion line - these may be signs of an infection. 
neurologic events: shaking (or tremor), confusion, disturbances of brain function 
(encephalopathy), difficulty in communicating (aphasia), seizure (convulsion). 
fever, swelling, chills, decreased or increased blood pressure and fluid in the lungs, which may 
become severe - these may be signs of a so-called cytokine release syndrome. 
if you have severe and persistent stomach pain, with or without nausea and vomiting, as these 
may be symptoms of a serious and potentially fatal condition known as pancreatitis 
(inflammation of the pancreas). 
• 
• 
• 
Treatment with BLINCYTO can cause a decrease in the levels of certain white blood cells with or 
without fever (febrile neutropenia or neutropenia) or can lead to increased blood levels of potassium, 
uric acid, and phosphate and decreased blood levels of calcium (tumour lysis syndrome). Your doctor 
will take regular blood tests during treatment with BLINCYTO. 
Other side effects include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
infections in the blood including bacteria, viruses, or other types of infection 
decreased levels of certain white blood cells with or without fever ((febrile) neutropenia, 
leukopenia), decreased levels of red blood cells, decreased levels of platelets 
fever, swelling, chills, decreased or increased blood pressure and fluid in the lungs, which may 
become severe (cytokine release syndrome) 
not being able to sleep 
headache, shaking (or tremor) 
rapid heart rate (tachycardia) 
low blood pressure 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cough 
nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, constipation, abdominal pain 
rash 
back pain, pain in extremity 
fever (pyrexia), swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat which may cause difficulty in 
swallowing or breathing (oedema), chills 
low levels of antibodies called “immunoglobulins” which help the immune system fight 
infection (decreased immunoglobulins) 
increased levels of liver enzymes (ALT, AST, GGT) 
reactions related to infusion may include, wheezing, flushing, face swelling, difficulty 
breathing, low blood pressure, high blood pressure. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infection which can result in organ failure, shock or can be fatal (sepsis) 
lung infection (pneumonia) 
fungal infection 
increased levels of white blood cell count (leukocytosis), decreased levels of certain white blood 
cells (lymphopenia) 
allergic reaction 
complications occurring after cancer treatment leading to increased blood levels of potassium, 
uric acid, and phosphate and decreased blood levels of calcium (tumour lysis syndrome) 
confusion, disorientation 
disturbances of brain function (encephalopathy) such as difficulty in communicating (aphasia), 
tingling of skin (paraesthesia), seizure, difficulty thinking or processing thoughts, difficulty 
remembering, difficulty in controlling movement (ataxia) 
feeling sleepy (somnolence), numbness, dizziness 
nerve problems affecting the head and neck such as visual disturbances, drooping eyelid and/or 
sagging muscles on one side of the face, difficulty hearing or trouble swallowing (cranial nerve 
disorders) 
wheezing or difficulty in breathing (dyspnoea), breathlessness (respiratory failure) 
flushing 
coughing with phlegm 
increased bilirubin in the blood 
bone pain 
chest pain or other pain 
high levels of some enzymes including blood enzymes 
increase in your weight 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
excessive activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (haemophagocytic 
histiocytosis) 
swollen lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy) 
fever, swelling, chills, decreased or increased blood pressure and fluid in the lungs, which may 
be severe and can be fatal (cytokine storm) 
a condition which causes fluid to leak from the small blood vessels into your body (capillary 
leak syndrome) 
difficulty in speaking 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Additionally, the side effects that happened more often in adolescents and children include: 
• 
decreased levels of red blood cells (anaemia), decreased levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia), 
decreased levels of certain white blood cells (leukopenia) 
fever (pyrexia) 
reactions related to infusion may include face swelling, low blood pressure, high blood pressure 
(infusion-related reaction) 
• 
• 
56 
 
 
 
• 
• 
increase in your weight 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store BLINCYTO 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vials: 
- 
- 
- 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
Reconstituted solution (BLINCYTO solution): 
- 
When refrigerated, the reconstituted solution must be used within 24 hours. Alternatively, the 
vials can be stored at room temperature (up to 27°C) for up to 4 hours. 
Diluted solution (prepared infusion bag): 
If your infusion bag is changed at home: 
- 
Do not open the package. 
Store the package at room temperature (up to 27°C). 
Do not refrigerate or freeze the package. 
Infusion bags containing BLINCYTO solution for infusion will arrive in special packaging 
containing cooling packs. 
• 
• 
• 
The package will be opened by your nurse and the infusion bags will be stored in a refrigerator 
until infusion. 
When refrigerated, the infusion bags must be used within 10 days of preparation. 
Once at room temperature (up to 27°C) the solution will be infused within 96 hours. 
- 
- 
- 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What BLINCYTO contains 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is blinatumomab. Each vial of powder contains 38.5 micrograms of 
blinatumomab. Reconstitution with water for injections results in a final blinatumomab 
concentration of 12.5 micrograms/mL. 
The other ingredients in the powder are citric acid monohydrate (E330), trehalose dihydrate, 
lysine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, and sodium hydroxide. 
The solution (stabiliser) contains citric acid monohydrate (E330), lysine hydrochloride, 
polysorbate 80, sodium hydroxide and water for injections. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What BLINCYTO looks like and contents of the pack 
BLINCYTO is a powder for concentrate and solution for solution for infusion. 
Each pack of BLINCYTO contains: 
• 
• 
1 glass vial containing a white to off-white powder. 
1 glass vial containing a colourless-to-slightly yellow, clear solution. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Amgen NV 
Telecomlaan 5-7 
1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
s.a. Amgen n.v. 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 7752711 
България 
Амджен България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 424 7440 
Česká republika 
Amgen s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 221 773 500 
Danmark 
Amgen, filial af Amgen AB, Sverige 
Tlf: +45 39617500 
Deutschland 
Amgen GmbH 
Tel.: +49 89 1490960 
Lietuva 
Amgen Switzerland AG Vilniaus filialas 
Tel: +370 5 219 7474 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
s.a. Amgen 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 7752711 
Magyarország 
Amgen Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 35 44 700 
Malta 
Amgen S.r.l. 
Italy 
Tel: +39 02 6241121 
Nederland 
Amgen B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0)76 5732500 
Eesti 
Amgen Switzerland AG Vilniaus filialas 
Tel: +372 586 09553 
Norge 
Amgen AB 
Tlf: +47 23308000 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Amgen Ελλάς Φαρμακευτικά Ε.Π.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 3447000 
Österreich 
Amgen GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0)1 50 217 
España 
Amgen S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 600 18 60 
France 
Amgen S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 (0)9 69 363 363 
Hrvatska 
Amgen d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 (0)1 562 57 20 
Ireland 
Amgen Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 8527400 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Amgen S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 6241121 
Kύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741 741 
Polska 
Amgen Biotechnologia Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 581 3000 
Portugal 
Amgen Biofarmacêutica, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 422 0606 
România 
Amgen România SRL 
Tel: +4021 527 3000 
Slovenija 
AMGEN zdravila d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 585 1767 
Slovenská republika 
Amgen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 321 114 49 
Suomi/Finland 
Amgen AB, sivuliike Suomessa/Amgen AB, filial 
i Finland 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 54900500 
Sverige 
Amgen AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 6951100 
Latvija 
Amgen Switzerland AG Rīgas filiāle 
Tel: +371 257 25888 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Amgen Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1223 420305 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
BLINCYTO solution for infusion is administered as a continuous intravenous infusion delivered at a 
constant flow rate using an infusion pump, over a period of up to 96 hours. 
Relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL 
Recommended daily dose by patient weight. Patients greater than or equal to 45 kg receive a 
fixed-dose and for patients less than 45 kg, the dose is calculated using the patient’s body surface area 
(BSA). See the table below for the recommended daily dose for relapsed or refractory B-precursor 
ALL. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient 
weight 
Greater than 
or equal to 
45 kg 
(fixed-dose) 
Less than 
45 kg 
(BSA-based 
dose) 
Days 1-7 
9 mcg/day via 
continuous 
infusion 
Cycle 1 
Days 8-28 
28 mcg/day via 
continuous 
infusion 
Subsequent cycles 
Days 29-42 
14-day 
treatment-free 
interval 
Days 1-28 
28 mcg/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
Days 29-42 
14-day 
treatment-
free interval 
5 mcg/m2/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
(not to exceed 
9 mcg/day) 
15 mcg/m2/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
(not to exceed 
28 mcg/day) 
15 mcg/m2/day 
via continuous 
infusion 
(not to exceed 
28 mcg/day) 
Paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed B-precursor ALL may receive 1 cycle of BLINCYTO 
treatment after induction and 2 blocks of consolidation chemotherapy. See the table below for the 
recommended daily dose by patient weight for paediatric patients with high-risk first relapsed 
B-precursor ALL post-induction chemotherapy. 
One consolidation cycle 
Days 1-28 
Patient weight greater than or 
equal to 45 kg 
(fixed-dose) 
28 mcg/day 
Patient weight less than 45 kg 
(BSA-based dose) 
15 mcg/m2/day 
(not to exceed 28 mcg/day) 
MRD positive B-precursor ALL 
The recommended dose of BLINCYTO throughout each 4-week treatment cycle is 28 mcg/day. 
The starting volume (270 mL) is more than the volume administered to the patient (240 mL) to 
account for the priming of the intravenous tubing and to ensure that the patient will receive the full 
dose of BLINCYTO. 
Infuse prepared BLINCYTO final infusion solution according to the instructions on the pharmacy 
label on the prepared bag at one of the following constant infusion rates: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Infusion rate of 10 mL/h for a duration of 24 hours 
Infusion rate of 5 mL/h for a duration of 48 hours 
Infusion rate of 3.3 mL/h for a duration of 72 hours 
Infusion rate of 2.5 mL/h for a duration of 96 hours 
The choice of the infusion duration should be made by the treating physician considering the 
frequency of the infusion bag changes and the weight of the patient. The target therapeutic dose of 
BLINCYTO delivered does not change. 
Aseptic preparation 
Aseptic handling must be ensured when preparing the infusion. Preparation of BLINCYTO should be: 
- 
performed under aseptic conditions by trained personnel in accordance with good practice rules 
especially with respect to the aseptic preparation of parenteral products. 
prepared in a laminar flow hood or biological safety cabinet using standard precautions for the 
safe handling of intravenous agents. 
- 
It is very important that the instructions for preparation and administration provided in this section are 
strictly followed to minimise medication errors (including underdose and overdose). 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other instructions 
• 
• 
BLINCYTO is compatible with polyolefin, PVC non-di-ethylhexylphthalate (non-DEHP), or 
ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA) infusion bags/pump cassettes. 
At the end of infusion, any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
Preparation of the solution for infusion 
Sterile single-use disposable syringes 
21-23 gauge needle(s) (recommended) 
These supplies are also required, but not included in the package 
• 
• 
•  Water for injections 
• 
Infusion bag with 250 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection; 
o 
To minimise the number of aseptic transfers, use a 250 mL pre-filled infusion bag. 
BLINCYTO dose calculations are based on a usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Use only polyolefin, PVC non-di-ethylhexylphthalate (non-DEHP), or ethyl vinyl acetate 
(EVA) infusion bags/pump cassettes. 
o 
• 
Polyolefin, PVC non-DEHP, or EVA intravenous tubing with a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low 
protein-binding 0.2 micrometre in-line filter. 
o 
Ensure that the tubing is compatible with the infusion pump. 
Reconstitute BLINCYTO with water for injections. Do not reconstitute BLINCYTO vials with the 
solution (stabiliser). 
To prime the intravenous tubing, use only the solution in the bag containing the FINAL 
prepared BLINCYTO solution for infusion. Do not prime with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection. 
Reconstitution of BLINCYTO 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Determine the number of BLINCYTO vials needed for a dose and infusion duration. 
Using a syringe, reconstitute each vial of BLINCYTO powder for concentrate using 3 mL of 
water for injections. Direct the water along the walls of the BLINCYTO vial and not directly on 
the lyophilized powder. 
• 
Do not reconstitute BLINCYTO powder for concentrate with the solution 
(stabiliser). 
The addition of water for injections to the powder for concentrate results in a total volume 
of 3.08 mL for a final BLINCYTO concentration of 12.5 mcg/mL. 
• 
Do not shake. 
Gently swirl contents to avoid excess foaming. 
• 
Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discolouration during 
reconstitution and prior to infusion. The resulting solution should be clear to slightly opalescent, 
colourless-to-slightly yellow. 
• 
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated. 
Preparation of BLINCYTO infusion bag  
Verify the prescribed dose and infusion duration for each BLINCYTO infusion bag. To minimise 
errors, use the specific volumes described in Tables 1 and 2 to prepare the BLINCYTO infusion 
bag. 
• 
• 
Table 1 for patients weighing greater than or equal to 45 kg 
Table 2 for patients weighing less than 45 kg 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
Use an infusion bag pre-filled with 250 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection that usually contains a total volume of 265 to 275 mL. 
To coat the infusion bag, using a syringe, aseptically transfer 5.5 mL of the solution (stabiliser) 
to the infusion bag. Gently mix the contents of the bag to avoid foaming. Discard the remaining 
solution (stabiliser). 
Using a syringe, aseptically transfer the required volume of reconstituted BLINCYTO solution 
into the infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection and the 
solution (stabiliser). Gently mix the contents of the bag to avoid foaming.  
• 
Refer to table 1 for patients weighing greater than or equal to 45 kg for the specific 
volume of reconstituted BLINCYTO. 
Refer to table 2 for patients weighing less than 45 kg (dose based on BSA) for the 
specific volume of reconstituted BLINCYTO. 
• 
Discard the vial containing any unused BLINCYTO reconstituted solution. 
Under aseptic conditions, attach the intravenous tubing to the infusion bag with the sterile 
0.2 micron in-line filter. Ensure that the intravenous tubing is compatible with the infusion 
pump. 
Remove air from the infusion bag. This is particularly important for use with an ambulatory 
infusion pump. 
Prime the intravenous infusion line only with the solution in the bag containing the FINAL 
prepared BLINCYTO solution for infusion.  
Store refrigerated at 2°C - 8°C if not used immediately. 
• 
Table 1. For patients weighing greater than or equal to 45 kg: volumes of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, solution (stabiliser), and reconstituted BLINCYTO to 
add to infusion bag 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
Infusion 
duration 
24 hours 
48 hours 
72 hours 
96 hours 
Dose 
Infusion rate 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
9 mcg/day 
28 mcg/day 
10 mL/hour 
10 mL/hour 
5 mL/hour 
5 mL/hour 
3.3 mL/hour 
3.3 mL/hour 
2.5 mL/hour 
2.5 mL/hour 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
5.5 mL 
Reconstituted  
BLINCYTO 
Volume 
0.83 mL 
2.6 mL 
1.7 mL 
5.2 mL 
2.5 mL 
8 mL 
3.3 mL 
10.7 mL 
Vials 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
3 
2 
4 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. For patients weighing less than 45 kg: volumes of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection, solution (stabiliser), and reconstituted BLINCYTO to add to infusion bag  
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
24 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
10 mL/hour 
24 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
10 mL/hour 
Volume 
0.7 mL 
0.66 mL 
0.61 mL 
0.56 mL 
0.52 mL 
0.47 mL 
0.43 mL 
0.38 mL 
0.33 mL 
0.29 mL 
0.24 mL 
0.2 mL 
2.1 mL 
2 mL 
1.8 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.6 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.1 mL 
1 mL 
0.86 mL 
0.72 mL 
0.59 mL 
Vials 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
63 
 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
48 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
5 mL/hour 
48 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
5 mL/hour 
1.4 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.2 mL 
1.1 mL 
1 mL 
0.94 mL 
0.85 mL 
0.76 mL 
0.67 mL 
0.57 mL 
0.48 mL 
0.39 mL 
4.2 mL 
3.9 mL 
3.7 mL 
3.4 mL 
3.1 mL 
2.8 mL 
2.6 mL 
2.3 mL 
2 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.2 mL 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
64 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
72 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
3.3 mL/hour 
72 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
3.3 mL/hour 
2.1 mL 
2 mL 
1.8 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.6 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.1 mL 
1 mL 
0.86 mL 
0.72 mL 
0.59 mL 
6.3 mL 
5.9 mL 
5.5 mL 
5.1 mL 
4.7 mL 
4.2 mL 
3.8 mL 
3.4 mL 
3 mL 
2.6 mL 
2.2 mL 
1.8 mL 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
65 
 
 
 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
(starting volume) 
250 mL 
(usual overfill volume of 265 to 275 mL) 
Solution (stabiliser) (fixed volume for 24, 48, 72, and 
96-hour infusion durations) 
5.5 mL 
Infusion 
duration 
Dose 
Infusion rate  BSA (m2) 
Reconstituted BLINCYTO 
Volume 
Vials 
96 hours 
5 mcg/m2/day 
2.5 mL/hour 
96 hours 
15 mcg/m2/day 
2.5 mL/hour 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
1.5 – 1.59 
1.4 – 1.49 
1.3 – 1.39 
1.2 – 1.29 
1.1 – 1.19 
1 – 1.09 
0.9 – 0.99 
0.8 – 0.89 
0.7 – 0.79 
0.6 – 0.69 
0.5 – 0.59 
0.4 – 0.49 
2.8 mL 
2.6 mL 
2.4 mL 
2.3 mL 
2.1 mL 
1.9 mL 
1.7 mL 
1.5 mL 
1.3 mL 
1.2 mL 
0.97 mL 
0.78 mL 
8.4 mL 
7.9 mL 
7.3 mL 
6.8 mL 
6.2 mL 
5.7 mL 
5.1 mL 
4.6 mL 
4 mL 
3.4 mL 
2.9 mL 
2.3 mL 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
BSA = body surface area 
For instructions on administration, see Summary of Product Characteristics section 4.2. 
66 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
Important Note: Do not flush the BLINCYTO infusion line or intravenous catheter, especially 
when changing infusion bags. Flushing when changing bags or at completion of infusion can 
result in excess dosage and complications thereof. When administering via multi-lumen venous 
catheter, BLINCYTO should be infused through a dedicated lumen. 
BLINCYTO solution for infusion is administered as a continuous intravenous infusion delivered at a 
constant flow rate using an infusion pump over a period of up to 96 hours. 
The BLINCYTO solution for infusion must be administered using intravenous tubing that contains a 
sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein-binding 0.2 micrometre in-line filter. 
The infusion bag must be changed at least every 96 hours by a healthcare professional for sterility 
reasons. 
Storage conditions and shelf life 
Unopened vials: 
5 years (2°C - 8°C) 
Reconstituted solution: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C or 4 hours at 
or below 27°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of reconstituting precludes the risks of 
microbial contamination, the reconstituted solution should be diluted immediately. If not diluted 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
Diluted solution (prepared infusion bag) 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 10 days at 2°C - 8°C or 96 hours at 
or below 27°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion bags should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
