EMA/304313/2021  
EMEA/H/C/003731 
Blincyto (blinatumomab) 
An overview of Blincyto and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Blincyto and what is it used for? 
Blincyto is a medicine used to treat a blood cancer called B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
(ALL) in patients above one year of age when the cancer has come back (relapsed) or has not 
improved with previous treatment (refractory). It can also be used in these patients as part of 
‘consolidation therapy’, to improve the remission. 
Blincyto is also used in adults who have been treated for B-precursor ALL and have minimal residual 
disease (which means that they have some detectable cancer cells in their body). 
Blincyto is used in patients who are ‘Philadelphia-chromosome-negative’ (Ph-negative) which means 
that the patients’ cancer cells do not have an abnormal chromosome called the Philadelphia 
chromosome, and in patients who have the protein CD19 on their cancer cells (CD19-positive). 
Blincyto can also be used in patients who are ‘Philadelphia-chromosome-positive’ (Ph-positive) if their 
cancer has not responded to previous treatment with at least two medicines called tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors and they have no alternative treatment options. Blincyto contains the active substance 
blinatumomab. 
ALL is rare, and Blincyto was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 24 
July 2009. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here.  
How is Blincyto used? 
Blincyto can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the treatment of patients with cancers of the blood.  
Blincyto is given by infusion (drip) into a vein using a pump device.  
For treatment of relapsed or refractory B-precursor ALL, the dose depends on the patient’s weight. 
Blincyto is infused continuously during a treatment cycle of four weeks. Each cycle is separated by a 
two-week treatment-free interval. Patients who have no signs of cancer after two cycles may be 
treated with up to three additional cycles of Blincyto if the benefits outweigh the risks for the patient. 
For treatment of patients with minimal residual disease, the dose depends on the patient’s bodyweight. 
Blincyto is infused continuously during a treatment cycle of four weeks. After receiving the first 
induction cycle patients may be treated for up to three additional treatment cycles, each one given 
after a two-week treatment-free interval. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 An agency of the European Union      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before receiving Blincyto, patients should be given medicines to prevent fever and reactions to the 
infusion. Patients should also be given chemotherapy medicines injected in the spine area to prevent 
leukaemia in the nervous system. 
Treatment may be interrupted or stopped altogether in case of certain side effects. 
For more information about using Blincyto, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Blincyto work? 
In B-precursor ALL, certain cells that give rise to B cells (a type of white blood cell) multiply too quickly 
and eventually these abnormal cells replace normal blood cells. 
The active substance in Blincyto, blinatumomab, is an antibody that has been designed to attach to a 
protein (CD19) found on B cells, including ALL cells. It also attaches to a protein (CD3) on T cells 
(another type of white blood cell).  
Blincyto therefore acts as a ‘bridge’ bringing T cells and B cells together and causing the T cells to 
release substances that eventually kill the cancerous B cells. 
What benefits of Blincyto have been shown in studies? 
Blincyto has been studied in two main studies in adults with B-precursor ALL whose leukaemia had 
come back or had not improved with treatment. Patients were given Blincyto for up to five treatment 
cycles and Blincyto was not compared with any other treatment. The main measure of effectiveness 
was based on the percentage of patients whose ALL improved after two treatment cycles, measured as 
resolution of signs of leukaemia and a normalisation or improvement in blood cell counts.  
The first study involved 189 patients with Ph-negative B-cell precursor ALL and found that it improved 
in 43% (81 out of 189) of patients given Blincyto. In most patients whose ALL improved, there was no 
evidence of cancer cells. Patients lived for an average of around six months before the cancer came 
back, which could enable suitable patients to have a blood stem cell transplant. 
The second study was in patients with Ph-positive B-cell precursor ALL who were previously treated 
with at least two tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Results showed that for 36% (16 out of 45) of patients 
their ALL improved.  
A study in 70 children aged 1 year and above with Ph-negative B-precursor ALL found that in 33% of 
patients treatment with Blincyto led to a resolution of the disease.  
Another study in 108 children above 28 days of age with relapsed high-risk Ph-negative B-precursor 
ALL found that when Blincyto was used as part of the consolidation therapy, 33% of patients had 
events (such as relapse after responding to treatment or lack of response) compared with 57% of 
patients on standard consolidation chemotherapy. 
Blincyto has also been studied in a main study in 116 patients with minimal residual disease. In the 
study, Blincyto was not compared with any other treatment. Results showed that around 78% of 
patients did not have measurable residual cancer cells after treatment with Blincyto. 
What are the risks associated with Blincyto? 
The most common side effects with Blincyto (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
infections, fever, infusion-related reactions (like fever, changes in blood pressure and rash), headache, 
febrile neutropenia (low levels a type of white blood cell counts called neutrophils with fever), 
Blincyto (blinatumomab)  
EMA/304313/2021  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
constipation, nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea, vomiting, anaemia (low red blood cell counts), oedema 
(swelling because of fluid retention), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), 
leucopenia (low levels of white blood cell), thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), blood tests showing 
changes in liver function, tremor (shaking), back pain, chills, low blood pressure, low levels of 
immunoglobulins (antibodies), cytokine release syndrome (a life-threatening condition that can cause 
fever, vomiting, shortness of breath, pain and low blood pressure), rapid heartbeat, insomnia (difficulty 
sleeping), pain in the arms and legs, abdominal (belly) pain, cough and rash.  
The most serious side effects were infections, neutropenia with or without fever, neurological events 
(such as confusion, shaking, dizziness, numbness or tingling), cytokine release syndrome, and tumour 
lysis syndrome (a life-threatening complication due to the breakdown of cancer cells). For the full list 
of side effects of Blincyto, see the package leaflet. 
Blincyto must not be given to breastfeeding women. For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Blincyto authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Blincyto’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency noted that Blincyto is beneficial for high-risk adults and 
children with Ph-negative B-precursor ALL who have few therapeutic options and who generally have a 
poor prognosis. It is also of benefit in adults who have been treated for B-precursor ALL and who are 
at high risk of the cancer coming back. Blincyto is also effective in adult patients who are Ph-positive 
whose disease has not responded to previous treatment with medicines called tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors. 
The safety profile of Blincyto was considered acceptable provided that recommendations on its use are 
followed. 
Blincyto was given ‘conditional approval’ but the company has since provided more evidence about the 
medicine. The Agency therefore recommended that Blincyto’s marketing authorisation should no longer 
be conditional. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Blincyto? 
The company that markets Blincyto will provide data from two studies looking at the safety and use of 
Blincyto in clinical practice. 
The company will also provide patients and healthcare professionals with educational materials on how 
to give Blincyto and how to manage risks with the medicine. Patients will also be provided with a 
patient alert card. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Blincyto have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Blincyto are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Blincyto are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Blincyto 
Blincyto received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 23 November 2015. 
This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 18 June 2018. 
Blincyto (blinatumomab)  
EMA/304313/2021  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Further information on Blincyto can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/Human/EPAR/blincyto.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2021.  
Blincyto (blinatumomab)  
EMA/304313/2021  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
