European Medicines Agency 
 London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/795694/2009 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
FOR  
BONDRONAT 
International non-proprietary name: ibandronic acid 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000101/II/0049 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. 
Introduction 
Ibandronate  (INN:  ibandronic  acid)  is  a  nitrogen-containing  bisphosphonate  that  inhibits  osteoclast-
mediated bone resorption. Through suppression of farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) synthase, an enzyme 
of  the  mevalonate  pathway  ibandronate  reduces  the  synthesis  of  the  isoprenoid  geranylgeranyl 
pyrophosphate  and,  subsequently,  the  prenylation  of  small  guanosine  triphosphate  (GTP)-binding 
proteins that are essential for the integrity of the cytoskeleton of the osteoclasts and for intracellular 
signalling,  thus  inducing  early  apoptosis.  Bondronat  is  intended  for  prevention  of  skeletal  events  in 
patients with breast cancer and bone metastases (concentrate for solution for infusion and film-coated 
tablets),  as  well  as  for  the  treatment  of  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia  with  or  without  metastases 
(concentrate for solution for infusion only). 
Oesophageal  irritation  is  known  to  be  associated  with  the  use  of  oral  bisphosphonates,  and 
oesophageal Adverse Events are already identified as a class effect.   
In response to a recent safety review conducted by the FDA to assess the potential association between 
oesophageal cancer and oral bisphosphonate use, FDA requested in April 2009 a class label update to 
all MAHs of oral bisphosphonates, adding new contraindications and strengthening the Warnings and 
Precautions in relation to the risk of severe oesophageal irritation. 
The  MAH  conducted  a safety  review  in  2009 on  reporting  rate,  clinical  manifestations,  and  current 
scientific and medical knowledge of oesophageal cancer in patients receiving ibandronic acid or other 
bisphosphonates.  In  the  light  of  the  few  publications  around  oesophageal  cancer  and  the  many 
questions still remaining unanswered, an association between ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer 
is not established and seems unlikely given currently available data.   
However, in order to mitigate the risk and in line with the FDA US class labeling request, the MAH 
decided to update its Core Data Sheet (CDS) for ibandronic acid oral formulations in the osteoporosis 
as well as oncology setting.  The labeling revisions pertain to an upgrade of the safety information on 
risk  of  severe  oesophageal  irritation  from  “Special  warnings  and  Precautions  for  use”  to 
“Contraindication” with a strengthening of the “Special warnings and Precautions for use” text. The 
MAH submitted this type II variation to update sections 4.3 and 4.4 of the SPC in line with the CDS. 
The Package Leaflet is proposed to be updated accordingly. 
Further  to  the  update  on  the  risk  of  severe  oesophageal  irritation,  the  MAH  proposes  to  revise  the 
“contraindications” section of the Bondronat SPCs for vials and tablets to add hypocalcaemia in line 
with  recent  Bondronat  CDS  changes  in  order  to  reflect  the  recommendations  already  given  in  the 
“warnings  and  precautions”  section,  i.e.  to  treat  hypocalcaemia  before  starting  Bondronat  therapy. 
This is also in accordance with the medical/clinical practice.  
1.2. Oral ibandronic acid and oesophageal safety review 
Oesophageal  irritation  has  long  been  associated  with  use  of  oral  bisphosphonates,  and  patients  are 
advised  to  take  oral  ibandronic  acid  with  a  full  glass  of  water  and  remain  upright  for  at  least  60 
minutes after taking it (30 minutes for other oral bisphosphonates).   
Recent publicity on case reports of oesophageal cancer in patients taking bisphosphonates has raised 
questions  whether  chronic  oesophageal  irritation  in  combination  with  known  risk  factors  (e.g., 
gastroesophageal  reflux  disease,  Barrett’s  esophagus,  esophageal  strictures,  achalasia  or  motility 
including  dysplasia  and  neoplastic 
disorders)  might  exacerbate 
transformation. At this point these concerns are theoretical but biologically plausible and thus warrant 
further investigation and preventive clinical precautions. 
the  risk  of  complications 
The  MAH  recently  conducted  a  safety  review  (with  cut-off  date  20  March  2009  and  late  breaking 
information through 24 June 2009) of ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer. It includes pre-clinical, 
clinical  and  data  from  Roche’s  global  Safety  database  ADVENT,  which  contains  serious  adverse 
events  from  clinical  trials  as  well  as  serious  and  non-serious  spontaneous  adverse  events  from  post-
2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marketing  settings,  supplemented  with  an  epidemiology  and  literature  review.  The  corresponding 
safety report was submitted to EMEA in August 2009 as part of the ibandronic acid PSUR covering 
the period 25 June 2008 to 24 June 2009.  
1.2.1 Pre-clinical  
Three  oral  carcinogenicity  studies  in  the  rat  and  mouse  were  conducted  during  the  preclinical 
development program. There was no evidence of any carcinogenic potential of ibandronic acid at daily 
doses of up to 6 fold (rat) and 20 fold (mouse) higher than the monthly dose of 150 mg in humans. 
Therefore, an increased risk of oesophagus cancer due to a systemic effect of ibandronic acid can be 
excluded. 
Cases of local irritation of the upper GI-tract including the oesophagus were also observed in animal 
toxicity  studies.  However,  in  all  preclinical  oral  studies,  ibandronic  acid  was  administered  in 
formulations completely different to the film-coated tablet used in humans. Thus, they do not reflect 
the clinical situation adequately and are considered to be not relevant for the risk assessment of upper 
GI tract intolerability. 
1.2.2 Clinical 
Two  cases  of  oesophageal  cancer  were  reported  during  the  clinical  development  program  with 
ibandronic acid for the indication of postmenopausal osteoporosis. This represents an incidence rate of 
2  cases  in  6830  patients  exposed  to  oral  and  IV  ibandronic  acid  (>  15,000  patient  years)  in  pivotal 
trials. 
In  one  case  oesophageal  cancer  was  diagnosed  about  500  days  after  study  drug  discontinuation  in  a 
patient  with  a  medical  history  of  dyspepsia.  In  the  other  case,  the  first  symptoms  of  dysphagia 
occurred  after  3  months  of  study  drug  and  the  diagnosis  was  made  after  7.5  months.  Both  patients 
were smoking for about 50 years, which is known to be an important risk factor for esophageal cancer. 
Both these cases were considered by the investigators as not causally associated with ibandronic acid.   
No cases were reported in the oncology setting.  
Furthermore, no cases were reported in the three year long term extension osteoporosis trials (N=1500 
(781 oral and 719 IV) patients). 
1.2.3 Post-marketing experience 
No  cases  of  oesophageal  cancer  were  reported  in  post-marketing  studies  (completed  &  validated 
analyses, and of at least 6 months duration) (N=3986 oral patients). 
Four  spontaneous  case  reports  of  oesophageal  cancer  were  identified  for  an  estimated  more  than  17 
Million patients (Bonviva: 16 Million; Bondronat: 1 Million) exposed to ibandronic acid until 30 June 
2009. This represents a crude reporting rate of less than 1 event in 1.000.000 patients exposed (0.2 per 
1.000.000).  No cases were reported for Bondronat. 
In summary, when assessing these 4 spontaneous case reports, a contributory role of ibandronic acid in 
the occurrence of esophageal cancer could not be excluded in 3 patients (reporter causality possible (2) 
and unknown(1)). However, in 1 out of these three reports, previous bisphosphonate use was described 
(no information on bisphosphonate use was provided in any of the other cases). In one case, there was 
a medical history of cancer and hiatal hernia and reflux. And in one case, information on past medical 
history,  relevant  investigations  and  co-medications  was  lacking.  In  3  patients  the  latency  was  short 
with the likeliness of the cancer pre-existing the bisphosphonate use and/or the drug exposure minimal 
(e.g. one dose only). 
1.2.4 Epidemiology & literature 
The  review  of  epidemiology  data  revealed  that  women  with  osteoporosis  have  a  non-statistically 
significant higher risk of oesophagus cancer compared with those in the general population. 
3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The crude odds ratio of oesophagus cancer with bisphosphonate use was non-statistically significant 
elevated to 2.0 (0.9-4.4). There were no cases reported in patients exposed to ibandronic acid, however 
total exposure to ibandronic acid was low (only 74 (0.5% of total bisphosphonate use). 
A literature search for ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer in patients with benign disease (non-
oncology indications) yielded only the NEJM 1 Jan 2009 Dr. Wysowski (FDA) letter to the editor, and  
publications  cross  referencing    to  this  letter.  In  response  to  the  Letter  to  the  Editor  (NEJM  23  Apr 
2009),  with  data  from  other  databases,  other  authors  do  not  provide  support  for  a  suspected 
oesophageal cancer risk in patients on BP therapy. 
1.2.5 MAH’s conclusions on oesophageal safety 
This  safety  review  provided  a  summary  on  the  reporting  rate,  clinical  manifestations,  and  current 
scientific and medical knowledge of oesophageal cancer in patients receiving ibandronic acid or other 
bisphosphonates in the osteoporosis and cancer setting.  
In the light of the few publications around oesophageal cancer and the many questions still remaining 
unanswered, an association between ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer is clearly not established 
and seems unlikely given currently available data.   
However as an association cannot be fully excluded, it is important to mitigate the potential risk. In 
line with the recent FDA  class labeling recommendation, Roche has therefore  decided to update the 
oral ibandronic acid CDS to include an emphasis on the adverse events related to the local irritation of 
the upper gastrointestinal mucosa, i.e. by adding appropriate new contraindications: (a) abnormalities 
of oesophagus that delay emptying such as stricture or achalasia; (b) inability to stand or sit upright for 
at least 60  minutes, and by strengthening the “Warnings and Precautions” wording related to severe 
oesophageal irritation.  
The  benefit-risk  assessment  of  ibandronic  acid  in  the  osteoporosis  and  oncology  setting  remains 
unchanged. As part of its routine Pharmacovigilance procedures, the MAH will continue to obtain as 
much information as possible on received reports suspicious for oesophageal cancer. 
1.2.6 Hypocalcaemia 
The current SPC for Bondronat states in section 4.4 “Warnings and precautions” that hypocalcaemia 
needs  to  be  effectively  treated  before  starting  Bondronat  therapy.  Hypocalcaemia  is  basically  a 
contraindication,  but  this  hasn’t  been  reflected  in  section  4.3  Contraindications  so  far.  The  MAH 
therefore  proposes  to  add  hypocalcaemia  as  contraindication  in  the  SPC  for  Bondronat  tablets  and 
vials.  With  this  change  Roche  aims  to  correctly  reflect  the  recommendations  already  given  in  the 
“warnings  and  precautions”  section.  Furthermore  the  proposed  change  is  in  alignment  with  the 
medical/clinical practice and the approved Bonviva label. 
1.3. Update of the SPC, Labelling and Package Leaflet 
The  revisions  to  the  Product  Information  pertain  to  an  upgrade  of  the  safety  information  on  risk  of 
severe  oesophageal  irritation  from  “Warnings  and  Precautions”  to  “Contraindication”  with  a 
strengthening of the “Warnings and Precautions” text.  
In  addition  hypocalcaemia  is  added  to  the  “Contraindications”  section  in  the  SPC  for  Bondronat 
tablets and vials in order to correctly reflect the already existing recommendations under “Warnings 
and Precautions” and the medical practice.  
In line with the CDS updates, the MAH proposed the following changes for sections 4.3 and 4.4 of the 
SPC and the Package Leaflet. 
SPC  
Bondronat – Vials 2 mg/2 ml and 6 mg/6 ml 
 Section 4.3 Contraindications 
- Description of changes: 
4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In line with the recent Bondronat CDS changes, the MAH proposes to include “hypocalcaemia” as a 
contraindication in section 4.3 in order to correctly reflect the recommendations already given in the 
“warnings and precautions” section and the medical practice. 
- Proposed changes: 
“Hypocalcaemia (see section 4.4). 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients.” 
Bondronat – 50 mg Film-coated tablets 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
- Description of changes: 
In  order  to  minimise  the  potential  risk  of  oral  bisphosphonates  exacerbating  oesophageal  irritation 
complications, the MAH is proposing to contraindicate oral formulations of ibandronic acid in patients 
with history of abnormalities of the oesophagus and other factors which delay oesophageal emptying 
such as stricture or achalasia.  
In addition, the MAH proposes to upgrade the current safety warnings regarding patients who cannot 
comply  with  the  current  dosing  recommendations,  by  contraindicating  oral  ibandronic  acid  use  in 
patients unable to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes. 
Furthermore,  the  MAH  proposes  to  include  “hypocalcaemia”  as  a  contraindication  in  section  4.3  in 
order  to  appropriately  reflect  the  recommendations  already  given  in  the  “warnings  and  precautions” 
section in line with the medical practice. 
-  Proposed changes: 
“ 
- Abnormalities of the oesophagus which delay oesophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia 
- Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes 
- Hypocalcaemia 
- Hypersensitivity to ibandronic acid or to any of the excipients 
See also section 4.4.” 
 Section 4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
-  Description of changes: 
As  part  of  ibandronic  acid  risk  minimization  measure  related  to  the  identified  risk  of  severe 
oesophageal  irritation  with  oral  bisphosphonates,  the  MAH  proposes  to  strengthen  the  existing 
“Warnings and precautions” wording.  
-  Proposed changes: 
“  
Oral  bisphosphonates  have  been  associated  with  dysphagia,  oesophagitis  and  oesophageal  or  gastric 
ulcers. Therefore, patients should pay particular attention to the dosing instructions (see section 4.2). 
Physicians  should  be  alert  to  signs  or  symptoms  signalling  a  possible  oesophageal  reaction  during 
therapy, and patients should be instructed to discontinue Bondronat and seek medical attention if they 
develop symptoms of oesophageal irritation such as new or worsening dysphagia, pain on swallowing, 
retrosternal pain, or heartburn. 
Orally administered bisphosphonates may cause local irritation of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa. 
Because  of  these  possible  irritant  effects  and  a  potential  for  worsening  of  the  underlying  disease, 
caution  should  be  used  when  Bondronat  is  given  to  patients  with  active  upper  gastrointestinal 
problems  (e.g.  known  Barrett’s  oesophagus,  dysphagia,  other  oesophageal  diseases,  gastritis, 
duodenitis or ulcers). 
Adverse  experiences  such  as  oesophagitis,  oesophageal  ulcers  and  oesophageal  erosions,  in  some 
cases severe and requiring hospitalization, rarely with bleeding or followed by oesophageal stricture or 
perforation, have been reported in patients receiving treatment with oral bisphosphonates. The risk of 
severe oesophageal adverse experiences appears to be greater in patients who do not comply with the 
dosing  instruction  and/or  who  continue  to  take  oral  bisphosphonates  after  developing  symptoms 
suggestive  of  oesophageal  irritation.  Patients  should  pay  particular  attention  and  be  able  to  comply 
with the dosing instructions (see section 4.2). 
5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians  should  be  alert  to  any  signs  or  symptoms  signaling  a  possible  oesophageal  reaction  and 
patients  should  be  instructed  to  discontinue  Bondronat  and  seek  medical  attention  if  they  develop 
dysphagia, odynophagia, retrosternal pain or new or worsening heartburn. 
While  no  increased  risk  was  observed  in  controlled  clinical  trials  there  have  been  post-marketing 
reports  of  gastric  and  duodenal  ulcers  with  oral  bisphosphonate  use,  some  severe  and  with 
complications. 
Since  NSAIDS  are  associated  with  gastrointestinal  irritation,  caution  should  be  taken  during 
concomitant oral medication with Bondronat.” 
EUPackage Leaflet  
Bondronat – Vials 2 mg/2 ml and 6 mg/6 ml 
Package Leaflet Section 2   
- Description of changes: 
Section  2  has  been  updated  to  reflect  the  new  contraindication  of  hypocalcaemia  in  line  with  the 
SmPC and CDS change. The proposed wording is identical to the respective Bonviva text. 
- Proposed changes: 
“Do not use Bondronat: 
-  if  you  are  allergic  (hypersensitive)  to  the  active  substance  or  any  of  the  other  ingrediants  of 
Bondronat. 
- if you have, or had in the past low blood calcium. Please consult the doctor. 
Bondronat should not be used in children. 
Take special care with Bondronat: 
If you know or believe that you may have: 
- hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates 
- low blood calcium 
- other disturbances of mineral metabolism (such as vitamin D deficiency) 
- severe kidney disease (renal insufficiency i.e. creatinine clearance <30 ml/min)” 
Bondronat – 50 mg Film-coated tablets 
Package Leaflet Section 2   
- Description of changes: 
Section  2  of  the  Package  Leaflet  has  been  updated  to  reflect  the  new  contraindications  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  warning  and  precautions  wording  related  to  the  risk  of  severe  oesophageal 
irritation as described in the proposed SPC. In addition, “hypocalcaemia” is added in line with the SPC 
change. 
- Proposed changes:  
“Do not take Bondronat 
- if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to ibandronic acid or any of the other ingredients 
-  if  you  have  certain  problems  with  your  oesophagus  (the  tube  connecting  your  mouth  with  your 
stomach) such as narrowing or difficulty swallowing 
- if you can’t stand or sit upright for at least one hour (60 minutes) at a time 
- if you have, or had in the past low blood calcium. Please consult your doctor. 
Bondronat should not be used in children.  
Take special care with Bondronat 
if you know or believe that you may have: 
- hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates 
- low blood calcium 
- other disturbances of mineral metabolism (such as vitamin D deficiency) 
- severe kidney disease (renal insufficiency i.e. creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) 
or when 
- you have had problems in the past with your oesophagus (the tube that connects your mouth to your 
stomach) 
- you become aware of any signs or symptoms suggesting a possible reaction of the oesophagus (this 
may include: pain in the chest, heartburn, pain after swallowing drink and / or food). If this is the case, 
you should speak to your doctor without delay. 
6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- you have any swallowing or digestive problems. 
- you are also taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), since both types of  medicinal 
products (NSAIDs and bisphosphonates) may cause irritation to the stomach and intestine. 
- you  suffer  from  galactose  intolerance,  the  Lapp  lactase  deficiency  or have  problems  with  glucose-
galactose absorption 
Irritation, inflammation or ulceration of the oesophagus (the tube that connects your mouth with your 
stomach) often with symptoms of severe pain in the chest, severe pain after swallowing food and/or 
drink, severe nausea, or vomiting may occur, especially if you do not drink a full glass of plain water 
and/or if you lie down within an hour of taking Bondronat. If you develop these symptoms, stop taking 
Bondronat and tell your doctor straight away.” 
Package Leaflet Section 3 
- Description of changes: 
Under Section 3 of the Package Leaflet additional information is added to explain to the patient why it 
is necessary to remain in an upright position after taking Bondronat for an hour. 
- Proposed changes: 
“To reduce possible irritation, it is important that you follow the instructions below: 
-  BEFORE taking your first food, drink or other medicinal products of the day, take your Bondronat 
tablet with a full glass of plain water only (about 200 mL). Do not take your tablet with any drink 
other than plain water  
- Do not chew, suck, crush or allow the tablet to dissolve in your mouth. 
- After taking your Bondronat tablet, wait at least 30 minutes before taking your first food, beverage, 
or other medication of the day. 
-  You  should  remain  in  an  upright  (sitting  or  standing)  position  while  taking  Bondronat  tablets  and 
remain  upright  for  the  next  hour  (60  minutes)  after  taking  your  tablet.  If  you  do  not  stay  upright 
(standing or sitting), some of the medicine could leak back into your oesophagus. 
-    It  is  important  to  continue  taking  Bondronat  for  as  long  as  your  doctor  prescribes  the  medicine. 
Bondronat can help with your condition only if you continue to take the tablets.” 
Package Leaflet Section 4   
-  Description of changes: 
Additional text is added related to the oesophageal irritation side effects and its symptoms in line with 
the  proposed  Section  2  text  in  order  to  emphasize  the  patient  information  on  this  common  adverse 
event for all oral bisphosphonates.  
 Proposed changes: 
- 
“Common  side  effects  include  indigestion,  nausea,  abdominal  pain,  oesophagitis,  tiredness,  and  low 
calcium levels in the blood.  
Bondronat can also irritate the oesophagus, although you can usually avoid this by taking your dose as 
described in this leaflet. If you develop symptoms such as severe pain in the chest, severe pain after 
swallowing  food  or  drink,  severe  nausea,  or  vomiting,    stop  taking  Bondronat  and  tell  your  doctor 
straight away. “ 
The MAH also took the opportunity to update the details of the local representatives for minor address 
changes and to reflect the new webaddress of the European Medicines Agency in the Package Leaflet. 
The CHMP was in agreement with the proposed wording from the MAH however made a comment to 
clarify  the  method  of  administration;  this  change  has  been  reflected  in  section  4.2  of  the  SPC  for 
Bondronat film-coated tablets, the labeling and package leaflet: 
SPC section 4.2. Posology and method of administration:  “…Patients should not chew, or suck or 
crush the tablet because of a potential for oropharyngeal ulceration….” 
Labeling (outer carton) section 5. Methods of administration:  
“ …Do not suck,  chew or crush tablets…” 
Package leaflet  section 3. How to take Bondronat :  
“…Do not chew, suck, crush or allow the tablet to dissolve in your mouth…. 
7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OVERALL CONCLUSION 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the changes introduced to the SPC and PL are acceptable to address 
this safety concern and to provide adequate information to the treating physician and the patient. The 
benefit-risk assessment of oral and IV formulations of ibandronic acid remains unchanged.  
8/8 
 
 
