EMA/323897/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000101 
EPAR summary for the public 
Bondronat 
ibandronic acid 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Bondronat. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Bondronat. 
What is Bondronat? 
Bondronat is a medicine that contains the active substance ibandronic acid. It is available as a 
concentrate that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein, and as tablets (50 mg). 
What is Bondronat used for? 
Bondronat is used in adults in the following ways: 
• 
• 
as an infusion or as a tablet to prevent ‘skeletal events’ (fractures [broken bones] or bone 
complications requiring treatment) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases (when the 
cancer has spread to the bone); 
as an infusion to treat hypercalcaemia (high levels of calcium in the blood) caused by tumours. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Bondronat used? 
Bondronat treatment should only be started by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of 
cancer. 
In the prevention of skeletal events, Bondronat is either given as a 6-mg infusion lasting at least 15 
minutes every three to four weeks, or as one tablet once a day. The tablet should be taken after the 
patient has not eaten anything for at least six hours overnight and at least 30 minutes before the first 
food or drink of the day. It should be taken with a full glass of plain water (in areas with hard water, 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
where tap water contains a lot of dissolved calcium, bottled water with a low mineral content may be 
used). The patient should not lie down for one hour after taking the tablet. Patients with moderate or 
severe kidney problems should receive Bondronat infusions at a lower dose over an hour, or the tablet 
every two days or every week. 
In the treatment of hypercalcaemia caused by tumours, Bondronat is given over 2 hours as an infusion 
of either 2 or 4 mg, depending on how severe the hypercalcaemia is. The infusion will normally bring 
the blood calcium level down to normal levels within a week. 
How does Bondronat work? 
The active substance in Bondronat, ibandronic acid, is a bisphosphonate. It stops the action of the 
osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. This leads to less 
bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to make bones less likely to break, which is useful in 
preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone metastases. 
Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the bones. By 
preventing the breakdown of bones, Bondronat also helps to reduce the amount of calcium released 
into the blood. 
How has Bondronat been studied? 
In the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, Bondronat 
has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in three main studies lasting two years: one 
with the infusions in 466 patients and two with the tablets in a total of 846 patients. The main measure 
of effectiveness was based on the number of new bone complications. These included spine fractures, 
fractures outside the spine and any bone complications that needed treatment with radiotherapy or 
surgery. 
Bondronat has also been studied in the treatment of hypercalcaemia caused by tumours in three four-
week studies involving a total of 343 patients. Bondronat was not compared with any other treatments 
in these studies. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in blood calcium levels. 
What benefit has Bondronat shown during the studies? 
Bondronat was more effective than placebo in preventing bone complications. It took longer for 
patients on Bondronat infusions or tablets to develop a new bone complication (50 to 76 weeks) than 
for patients on placebo (33 to 48 weeks). Bondronat reduced the risk of having a skeletal event by 
about 40% compared with placebo. 
Bondronat was also effective in treating hypercalcaemia caused by tumours. About a half to two-thirds 
of the patients responded to a 2-mg dose of Bondronat, with blood calcium levels returning to within 
the normal range. About three-quarters responded to a 4-mg dose. 
What is the risk associated with Bondronat? 
The most common side effects with Bondronat infusions are a rise in body temperature, hypocalcaemia 
(low blood calcium levels), asthenia (weakness) and headache. The most common side effects with the 
tablets are hypocalcaemia and dyspepsia (heartburn). The most serious side effects with Bondronat are 
anaphylactic reaction (severe allergic reaction), atypical fractures of the femur (an unusual type of 
Bondronat  
EMA/323897/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
fracture of the bone of the upper leg), osteonecrosis of the jaw (damage to the bones of the jaw, which 
could lead to pain, sores in the mouth or loosening of teeth), and eye inflammation.  
Bondronat must not be used in people with hypocalcaemia. The tablets must not be used in patients 
who have abnormalities of the oesophagus or who cannot stand or sit up for at least an hour. For the 
full list of all side effects and restrictions reported with Bondronat, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Bondronat been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Bondronat’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bondronat? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Bondronat is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Bondronat, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Bondronat will provide a card to inform patients receiving 
Bondronat infusion about the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw and to instruct them to contact their 
doctor if they experience symptoms. 
Other information about Bondronat 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Bondronat on 25 June 1996.  
The full EPAR for Bondronat can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Bondronat, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2016.  
Bondronat  
EMA/323897/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
