SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion and scientific discussion on procedures 
which have been finalised before 1 September 2004. For scientific information on procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Bondronat contains the active substance ibandronic acid, a new bisphosphonate agent, which inhibits 
bone  resorption.  Ibandronic  acid  is  an  enzyme-resistant  analogue  of  pyrophosphate,  the  naturally 
occurring inhibitor of mineralisation in bone, the P-O-P structure of pyrophosphate being replaced by 
P-C-P.  It  is  concentrated  in  areas  of  high  bone  turnover,  is  taken  up  by  and  impedes  the  bone-
resorbing activity of osteoclasts in a dose-dependent manner. It thus reduces the turnover of bone.  
The detailed mechanism of action of bisphosphonates is not well understood. They may alter proton 
pump  function  or  impair  the  release  of  acid  hydrolases  into  the  extracellular  lysosomes  contiguous 
with mineralised bone. They also may inhibit the differentiation of monocyte-macrophage precursors 
into osteoclasts. 
Bondronat  is  presented  as  an  ampoule  in  two  strengths  (1  mg/1  ml  and  2  mg/2  ml)  containing  a 
concentrate for solution for infusion. Ibandronic acid, like most bisphosphonates, is poorly absorbed 
orally. 
The  therapeutic  indication  of  Bondronat  is  the  treatment  of  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia  with  or 
without  metastases.  Other  bisphosphonates  are  already  licensed  for  the  proposed  indication,  among 
which differences appear between onset and duration of action, predictability of activity, inhibition of 
normal bone mineralisation and potency. Efficacy as measured by clinical endpoints has been shown 
for ibandronic acid: between 2 and 4 mg, given as a single intravenous dose, it returns serum calcium 
to normal within 7 days in 75 percent of patients. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Dosage form 
Bondronat  is  presented  as  an  isotonic  infusion  concentrate  in  colourless  glass  ampoules  type  I,  Ph. 
Eur. The formulation contains 1.125 mg/ml of the monohydrate of the monosodium salt of ibandronic 
acid (equivalent to 1 mg/ml of ibandronic acid) and sodium chloride in an aqueous acetate buffer. The 
contents of each ampoule of Bondronat concentrate for solution for infusion are intended to be diluted 
in 500 ml of either isotonic sodium chloride or 5% dextrose and infused intravenously over 2 hours. 
Method of preparation 
The manufacturing process for Bondronat concentrate for solution for infusion consists of seven steps. 
A second sterile filtration step has been introduced between the manufacture and the filling. Process 
validation  has  been  carried  out  and  included  sterile  filtrations,  precision  of  filling,  absence  of 
adsorption  of  drug  substance  onto  equipment  and  efficacy  of  the  terminal  sterilisation  step.  This 
demonstrated that the product consistently meets its specification. 
Control of starting materials 
The synthesis of the drug substance consists of seven stages, for which the potential impurities have 
been identified. The specifications and the routine release tests are adequate to control the quality of 
the active substance. 
The applicant has provided data in addition to that included in the application on the interpretation of 
the Infra Red spectrum, tests and limits for heavy metals, Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) test for 
phosphate  and  phosphite  impurities,  content  of  impurities  expressed  as  %  weight  by  using  High 
Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and validation of complexometric titration. 
Limits for individual unidentified impurities, for the total unidentified impurities and for total related 
impurities have been set as requested. 
Control of the finished medicinal product 
1/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  specifications  and  release  tests  for  the  finished  product  are  in  compliance  with  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia  (general  monograph  on  Parenteralia).  During  the  assessment  procedure  of  the 
application, the company was requested to change the finished product specification requirements on 
content  of  one  specified  impurity  and  to  present  the  structure  of  three  other  potential  impurities. 
Adequate  responses  were  provided.  Additional  satisfactory  data  on  equations  for  calculation  of  the 
results and validation of the HPLC-purity test were supplied by the company. 
The  data  submitted  for  the  validation  of  the  assay  method  and  the  Relative  Standard  Deviation  for 
both  the  analytical  method  used  to  analyse  the  drug  substance  and  the  finished  product  were 
satisfactory. Limits of detection and quantification of the HPLC-purity method have been lowered due 
to  further  validation  and  referred  to  the  amount  of  ibandronic  acid,  monosodium  salt,  monohydrate 
injected. Calculation formula and mass factors have been introduced in the HPLC-purity test. 
Stability 
Stability test results supplied with the application and in response to the consolidated list of questions 
were satisfactory for both the concentrate for solution for  infusion and the product when  diluted for 
use. The  initial shelf  life at the time of  the Marketing Authorisation  was 24  months. The Marketing 
Authorisation Holder applied for an extension of the shelf life to 5 years through a Type I variation. 
The  stability data provided demonstrated that the specifications are all met and that a shelf life of  5 
years is acceptable. 
After dilution, the in-use shelf-life is 24 hours when the solution is stored under refrigeration (2°C to 
8°C). 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Bisphosphonates  exhibit  a  role  in  bone  mineralisation.  They  slow  in  vitro  the  formation  and  the 
dissolution of crystals of hydroxyapatite. The physicochemical interaction of bisphosphonates with the 
crystal  of  hydroxyapatite  draw  out  their  high  affinity  for  bone  but  the  cellular  mechanisms  of  their 
action on the dynamics of crystal formation and dissolution have not yet been fully elucidated. In vivo 
they inhibit osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. 
The  primary  effects  of  ibandronic  acid  on  bone  resorption  have  been  adequately  investigated  and 
demonstrated  in  relevant  animal  models.  Ibandronic  acid  is  a  very  potent  inactivator  of  osteoclasts, 
which translates into inhibition of bone resorption and inhibition of hypercalcaemia.  
Intravenous  as  well  as  peroral  administration  routes  were  investigated,  but  for  treatment  of  tumour-
induced hypercalcaemia in man, only intravenous administration is relevant. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Studies  on  pharmacodynamic  effects  with  respect  to  the  proposed  indication  were  conducted 
using  three  animal  models.  Studies  on  bone  resorption  and  hypercalcaemia  induced  by  vitamin  A 
analogues  (retinoids)  in  thyroparathyroidectomized  (TPTX)  rodents  demonstrated  a  linear  dose 
response relation for an interval from 0.0015 mg/kg to 0.15 mg/kg. This range includes the intended 
maximal human therapeutic dosage, which is 0.07-0.1 mg/kg.  
The  investigations  on  tumour-related  bone  loss  via  direct  tumour  osteolysis  or  humoral  factors 
(parathyroid  hormone-related  peptide,  PTHrP)  were  the  most  relevant  studies.  PTHrP  induces 
hypercalcaemia  and  hypercalciuria  via  two  mechanisms:  osteolysis  and  increased  renal  calcium 
reabsorption. Ibandronic acid as other bisphosphonates only inhibits osteolysis but has no influence on 
the renal mechanism. Ibandronic acid is more potent than pamidronate (about 50 times) and clodronate 
(300-1000 times) with regard to antiosteolytic activity in these animal models.   
Studies  intended  to  investigate  potential  secondary  pharmacological  effects  were  performed, 
mainly  on  central  nervous,  renal,  gastrointestinal  and  cardiovascular  systems.  Most  safety 
pharmacological studies  did not  provide any evidence for  special  organ or  systemic  risks.  However, 
some in vitro tests using isolated organs revealed that only renal function could be eventually affected. 
Further investigation to elucidate this effect was conducted during the toxicity studies. 
No interactions studies in animals have been performed.  
2/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  determined  in  rodents  and  non-rodents  with  14C-ibandronic  acid. 
Only  one  i.v.  dose  level  was  used  (0.1  mg/kg)  and  only  single  dose  pharmacokinetics  have  been 
investigated. Like other bisphosphonates, the oral bioavailability of ibandronic acid is very low (1%). 
Therefore, 
treatment  of  malignancy-related 
is  preferred  for 
hypercalcaemia. Concerning the distribution of ibandronic acid, autoradiography in entire animals of 
14C-ibandronic  acid  0.1  mg/kg  i.v.  has  been  performed  in  rodents.  The  maximum  amount  of  the 
substance was found in bone, followed by the kidneys. 
intravenous  administration 
the 
In  both  rodents  and  non-rodents,  renal  excretion  was  the  predominant  route  of  elimination,  and  no 
metabolite  was  detected  in  the  urine  after  i.v.  administration.  Ibandronic  acid  is  similar  to  other 
bisphosphonates  with  respect  to  a  substantial  bone  uptake  and  a  very  slow  elimination  from  this 
compartment. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single i.v. doses of ibandronic acid were tested in rodents. Up to 17.4 mg/kg single i.v. doses did not 
reveal severe toxicity. At higher doses mortality occurred 8-14 days after dosing. The LD50 values in 
rodents  after  single  i.v.  dose  are  200-400  times  higher  than  the  proposed  maximum  human  dose. 
Toxicity  symptoms  were  rough  pelt,  sedation  and  ptosis,  and  paralysis.  Dead  animals  showed 
pulmonary  oedema,  organ  congestion  and  intestinal  dilatation  suggesting  cardiac  failure  as  the 
ultimate cause of death after a single i.v. dose of ibandronic acid. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
The  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  consisted  of  4-week  i.v.  administration  studies  and  of  oral 
administration studies lasting from 4 weeks to 6 months, in both rodents and non-rodents. 
None of the animals in these studies died during the 4-week period of treatment with ibandronic acid. 
Two  effects  of  long  term  administration  of  ibandronic  acid  (mid  and  high  doses),  proximal  tubular 
kidney damage and hepatic injury, with elevation of ALAT and ASAT, degeneration and necrosis of 
liver cells in individual cases, were indicated in non-rodents after multiple daily doses of 3 to 10 times 
above the intended human dose to be given as a single dose. 
As  the  renal  and  the  hepatic  function  appeared  to  be  target  organ  for  toxicity,  human  safety  studies 
particularly monitored these functions. 
Reproduction studies 
Embryotoxicity,  teratology  and  fertility studies  have  not  been  presented.  For  the  claimed  indication, 
conduction of these studies is not required. Ibandronic acid should not be used during pregnancy and 
lactation. 
Mutagenic potential  
Mutagenic  potential  has  been  investigated  through  in  vitro  tests:  gene  mutation  assay  on  bacteria 
(Ames Test), gene mutation assay in mammalian cells, cytogenetic tests in human lymphocytes, and 
through  an  in  vivo  test  (mouse  micronucleus  test).  There  was  no  evidence  of  mutagenic  potential  in 
any of these tests. 
Carcinogenic potential 
Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  performed  given  the  proposed  indication.  Carcinogenicity 
studies would be required for further indications such as Paget’s disease or prevention of osteoporosis, 
which imply the chronic use of this drug. 
In addition, there is no evidence at present that the other bisphosphonate therapeutic agents currently 
available have carcinogenic potential.   
Local tolerance 
There were no signs of local irritation after a single i.v. dose in non-rodents. Paravenous dosing caused 
moderate to severe inflammatory oedema.  
3/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subcutaneous administration elicits tissue irritation in rodents and in non-rodents. 
4/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental risk  
toxicity  has  been 
the  predicted 
Environmental 
environmental  concentration  in  water  (PECwater)  is  103  times  lower  than  the  lowest  proposed  action 
limit for further ecotoxicological evaluation and testing. With respect to soil the ratio between PECsoil 
and  the  proposed  action  limit  is  even  smaller.  Accordingly,  for  the  indication  of  tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia, ibandronic acid has no potential risk for the environment.  
the  worst  assumptions 
investigated.  Under 
It  was  considered  that  for  a  drug  that  should  be  used  as  short-term  treatment  for  tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia with or without metastases, the toxicological studies were adequate both qualitatively 
and quantitatively. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Hypercalcaemia  due  to  malignancy  is  common,  often  severe  and  confusing  as  to  aetiology. 
Traditionally it was thought to be related mainly to a local invasion and destruction of bone in tumour 
cells;  it  is  now  known  to  possibly  result  from  the  elaboration  by  the  malignant  cells  of  humoral 
mediators of hypercalcaemia. The treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia must be considered in 
the  perspective  of  the  control  of  the  tumour  and  guided  by  the  understanding  of  the  particular 
pathogenesis of hypercalcaemia.  
The  acute  treatment  of  this  metabolic  dysfunction  in  cancer  patients  includes  restoration  of  normal 
hydratation and the use of calcium lowering agents. Bisphosphonates have been used successfully in 
the management of hypercalcaemia associated with malignancy for many years. The evaluation of the 
data  submitted  to  support  the  use  of  ibandronic  acid  in  the  treatment  of  tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia  with  or  without  metastases,  concluded  that  this  drug  is  highly  potent  and  has  a 
favourable ratio of blocking resorption over inhibiting bone formation.  
The  clinical  dossier  consisted  of  two  randomised  double-blind  placebo-controlled  studies  in  healthy 
volunteers aimed to evaluate pharmacodynamic effects and pharmacokinetic profile and three studies 
in patients with hypercalcaemia of malignancy to assess clinical efficacy. 
Pharmacodynamics/pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacodynamic/pharmacokinetic  studies  consisted  of  two  randomised  double-blind 
placebo-controlled  trials,  assessing  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamic  parameters,  as  well  as 
safety with special emphasis on the renal function, in healthy volunteers. The first study was primarily 
designed  to  detect  possible  signs  of  renal  tubular  damage  or  influences  on  parameters  of  kidney 
function as this organ appeared to be target for toxicity in the animal studies. At the dose administered 
(2 mg), no definite rise of markers of early tubular lesions was observed. The second study compared 
the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  ibandronic  acid  with  placebo  and  assessed  the  pharmacokinetic 
profile of this new medicinal product. The effects on bone metabolism using serum calcium, sodium, 
and potassium were within normal limits and showed no differences between the treatment groups.  
As it could be considered unethical to carry out a conventional pharmacokinetic study in patients with 
terminal  hypercalcaemia  in  malignancy,  the  dossier  submitted  only  contains  pharmacokinetic  data 
established in healthy volunteers and in postmenopausal population.  
The  pharmacokinetic  data  were  investigated  after  single  injection  of  0.5,  1.0  and  2.0-mg  ibandronic 
acid in healthy volunteers as well as after a single infusion of 2.0, 4.0 or 6.0-mg ibandronic acid in 20 
postmenopausal women.  
The  results  of  this  study  are  summarised  in  Table  1.  Both  Area  Under  the  Curve  (AUC)  and  peak-
plasma  concentration  (Cmax)  are  dose-proportional,  indicating  pharmacokinetic  linearity,  and 
comparable with those seen in healthy volunteers. 
Table  1:  Main  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  i.v. administration  of  different  doses  of  ibandronic 
acid 
AUC [ng x h/ml] 
Cmax [ng/ml] 
t1/2 [h] 
Cl [ml/min] 
2 mg 
318 
89 
10.2 
113 
4 mg 
577 
159 
15.6 
130 
6 mg 
960 
328 
15.8 
108 
5/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution studies have not been performed for ethical reasons; it is assumed that ibandronic acid 
will be bound to bone.  
After  a  2  hours  infusion  of  2,  4  and  6  mg  ibandronic  acid  pharmacokinetic  parameters  are  dose 
proportional.  The  highest  serum  concentration  achieved  after  a  single  2  hours  infusion  of  6  mg  was 
328 ng/ml and after single i.v. injection of 2 mg 246 ng/ml. 
Plasma  protein  binding  of  ibandronic  acid  is  independent  from  serum  concentration.  Up  to  the 
concentration  of  2000  ng/ml  protein  binding  is  99%.  This  level  is  never  achieved  with  therapeutic 
dosages. 
The binding to erythrocytes and platelets is very low. 
The  kidney  is  the  predominant  route  of  excretion  and  patients  with  severe  renal  insufficiency  were 
excluded from the clinical trials. This raised concerns about the use of ibandronic acid in patients with 
such severe renal impairment. The information in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) was 
modified  accordingly  to  address  this  issue,  the  use  of  ibandronic  acid  being  contra-indicated  in 
patients with severe renal insufficiency (serum creatinine > 5 mg/dl or 442 µmol/l). 
Although no formal drug-drug interaction studies have been performed, caution is advised when this 
new bisphosphonate is administered with aminoglycosides agents since both agents can lower serum 
calcium  levels  for  prolonged  periods.  Attention  should  also  be  paid  to  the  possible  existence  of 
simultaneous hypomagnesaemia. 
Therapeutic efficacy 
In  order  to  assess  the  therapeutic  efficacy  of  ibandronic  acid,  three  clinical  trials  were  performed, 
involving  a  total  of  343  patients  with  hypercalcaemia  of  malignancy.  All  patients  were  designed  to 
receive  a  single  dose  but  in  one  study  (P3)  50  patients  were  treated  with  a  second  dose.  The 
observation period was 4 weeks. More than 250 patients received 2 mg or less as first active dose. 
The  primary  efficacy  parameter  was  changes  in  albumin-corrected  serum  calcium  after  standardised 
hydration therapy prior to exposure with ibandronic acid. The complete response rate was defined as 
per  cent  of  hypercalcaemic  patients  whose  albumin-corrected  serum  calcium  values  normalised  (to 
2.70  mmol/l  or  less)  and  fell  at  least  by  more  than  0.3 mmol/l  compared  with  baseline.  The  partial 
response  rate  was  defined  by  a  decrease  of  albumin-corrected  serum  calcium  levels  by  at  least  0.3 
mmol/l. 
Secondary  efficacy  parameters  included  urinary  calcium  excretion  measured  by  calcium/creatinine 
ratio,  time  to  onset  of  calcium  lowering  effect,  and  duration  of  this  effect.  Other  parameters  were 
hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio, and alkaline phosphatase in serum. 
A dose-finding study in relation to the proposed indication was a German-Swiss multicenter phase-II 
pilot trial. The primary objective was the effect on serum calcium and tolerability of different doses of 
ibandronic acid. Calcium excretion in the urine was used as a further parameter of efficacy. Thirty-two 
patients  were  evaluable  for  efficacy.  This  descriptive  phase  II  trial  has  documented  the  calcium 
lowering  effect  of  ibandronic  acid  but  has  not  revealed  a  clear  dose-response  relation.  The  lowest 
efficacy dose level was established (0.4 mg) but the optimal dosage in relation to efficacy and safety 
was  less  well  defined.  A  fall  in  the  urinary  calcium/creatinine  ratio  in  the  majority  of  the  patients 
indicated that ibandronic acid decreases osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. 
The first therapeutical study (P3 study) was a European open phase II multicenter (40 centers) dose-
finding  study  comparing  0.6  mg  with  1.1  mg  and  2  mg  as  a  single  2-hour  i.v.  infusion,  following  a 
randomised,  dose-controlled  and  parallel  group  design.  Exclusion  criteria  were  primary 
hyperparathyroidism,  serum  creatininine  >  5  mg/100  ml,  treatment  with  other  calcium-lowering 
agents, chemotherapy one week before or during start of the study.    
Response  was  defined  as  normalised  serum  calcium  (≤  2.70  mmol/l)  for  at  least  one  visit  and 
reduction of the serum calcium ≥ 0.3 mmol/l on day 3 after administration. 
A total of 172 patients were evaluated for safety and 151 patients were evaluated for clinical efficacy. 
The main outcome of this study is summarised in Table 2. 
6/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Overall efficacy from P3 study 
                 Dose of Ibandronic acid (mg) 
0.6 mg 
1.1 mg 
2.0 mg 
Response 
withdrawal prior to 
response1 
no response2 
All 
N 
22 
26 
2 
50 
% 
44.00 
52.00 
 4.00 
100.0 
N 
24 
20 
2 
46 
% 
52.17 
43.48 
 4.35 
100.0 
N 
37 
17 
1 
55 
% 
67.273 
30.91 
1.82 
100.0 
Intent to treat 
resp/N 
1  Other  treatment  required  before  day  7  or  need  for  a  second  infusion  of  ibandronic  acid,  death 
26/56 
30/56 
39/60 
53.5 
46.4 
65 
before day 7. 
2  No  lowering  of  se-calcium  to  ≤  2.70  mmol/l  7  days  after  ibandronic  acid  or  no  change  of  se-
calcium for more than 3 days after initial lowering effect. 
3  P=0.019 for 0.6 mg vs 2.0 mg 
Results indicate a dose-dependent normalisation of serum calcium levels by ibandronic acid in patients 
with underlying malignant disease and show a response rate related to baseline serum calcium level. 
The response rate did not depend on the tumour type humoral/local osteolytic. This trial did not define 
the optimal dose and schedule for patients with very high levels of calcium (i.e > 3.5 mmol/l) but a 
logistic regression analysis predicted that the response rate in these patients could be increased with a 
higher  dose  than  2  mg  as  single  dose  infusion.  Patients  with  only  documented  bone  metastases 
appeared  to  benefit  also  from  higher  doses  of  ibandronic  acid  (0.6 mg  vs  ≥  1.1  mg).  Response  in 
relation to time after first infusion was studied and in 67.5% of cases studied the response was seen 
between days 2 and 7. There was a clear trend towards faster response with higher dosage. 
Regarding re-treatment with ibandronic acid, 50 patients received a second infusion of ibandronic acid 
between days 2 and 30 after the first infusion. The reasons for re-treatment were insufficient efficacy 
in 40 patients (first dose between 0.6 mg and 2 mg) and recurrent hypercalcaemia in 10 patients. The 
maximum dose for both first and second administrations of ibandronic acid was 2 mg (except one 
patient who received 4 mg as a second dose).  
There  were  some  concerns  about  the  fact  that  the  trial  did  not  allow  to  establish  conclusions  on  the 
efficacy after  multiple doses of ibandronic acid, since  most  patients who  received a  second  infusion 
showed  an  unsatisfactory  response  to  the  first  administered  dose.  The  courses  of  50 patients  who 
received  a  second  infusion  clearly  showed  in  general  the  benefit  a  patient  can  expect  from  a 
retreatment with ibandronic acid. Therefore, it was considered that patients should have the possibility 
of a second course of treatment, especially if the first dose chosen was inadequate. This consideration 
leads to a modification in the posology and method of administration section of the SPC.  
The second therapeutical study (P6 study) was a phase II multicenter double-blind comparative trial, 
to investigate the efficacy of 2 mg, 4 mg or 6 mg as a single i.v. infusion over 2 hours. Only patients 
with serum calcium levels ≥ 3  mmol/l were included. Prior to randomisation patients  were stratified 
into  4  strata  with  regard  to  serum  calcium  level  (< 3.4 mmol/l  vs  ≥ 3.4 mmol/l)  and  tumour  type 
(humoral tumour vs osteolytic tumour). 
Response was defined as normalisation of serum calcium (≤ 2.7 mmol/l) on at least one visit. Of the 
132 patients included in the study (P6), 125 patients were evaluable for efficacy. The main outcome of 
this study is summarised in Table 3. 
7/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Overall efficacy from P6 study 
                 Dose of Ibandronic acid (mg) 
2.0 mg 
4.0 mg 
6.0 mg 
response1 
withdrawal prior to 
response 
no response 
All 
N 
22 
20 
2 
44 
% 
50.00 
45.45 
 4.55 
100.0 
N 
31 
 7 
3 
41 
% 
75.61 
17.07 
 7.32 
100.0 
N 
31 
 9 
0 
40 
% 
77.50 
22.50 
0.00 
100.0 
23/46 
Intent to treat 
resp/N 
1P=0.013 for 2 mg vs 4 mg, and P=0.024 for 2 mg vs 6 mg. The difference between 4 and 6 mg was 
not significant. 
32/44 
32/42 
76.19 
72.72 
50.00 
Results indicated that the tumour type (humoral vs local osteolytic) influences the response rate. Local 
osteolytic tumours display a higher response trend when compared with humoral tumours. 
A logistic regression analysis identified three factors that significantly affect the predictability of the 
response: dose of ibandronic acid, baseline serum calcium and tumour class. 
A dose response relation was confirmed, 4 mg being more effective than 2 mg in patients with serum 
calcium ≥ 3 mmol/l, whereas a dose of 6 mg did not add any further benefit in terms of efficacy. 
The  posology  regimen  was  defined  from  results  of  these  two  studies.    It  was  concluded  that  the 
appropriate dose for a single administration in patients with severe hypercalcaemia is 4 mg, whereas 
2 mg is established as an efficient dosage for patients with moderate hypercalcaemia. 
There was some concern that the recommended single i.v. dose proposed initially in relation to level 
of  serum  calcium  or  to  tumoural  mechanism  of  hypercalcaemia  was  not  fully  justified  based  on  the 
submitted  clinical  data.  There  was  a  clear  dose-response  relationship  from  0.6 mg  to  4  mg  i.v.  but 
there was a minimal additional benefit from the highest administrated dose in terms of response rate, 
faster  response,  and  non-responder  patients.  The  dosage  recommendation  has  been  modified  in  the 
pharmacodynamic section of the SPC.  
The  time  to  response  (reduction  of  serum  calcium  levels  to  normal  range)  was  found  to  be  within 
7 days in most cases. The median duration of action after achieving the normal range (time to relapse 
= re-increase of albumin-corrected serum  calcium  above 3.0  mmol/l) was 18-26 days. The observed 
time to relapse was up to 37 days. 
The absence of phase III confirmatory placebo or comparator trials was considered acceptable because 
of  the  ethical  concerns  in  the  use  of  placebo  for  this  medical  condition  and  because  establishing 
therapeutic  equivalence  with  existing  effective  comparators,  such  as  pamidronate,  would  require 
firstly  to  demonstrate  equipotent  dosage  between  both  bisphosphonates  and  secondly  to  conduct  a 
large scale phase III study which, in turn, will not generate important new clinical knowledge in view 
of the high objective activity of ibandronic acid. 
Safety 
The safety profile of ibandronic acid was established based on the reports from the P3 and P6 studies.  
The  mortality  was  high  but  none  of  the  death  cases  were  related  to  ibandronic  acid.  Deaths  were 
mostly due to the progression of the underlying malignant disease. All the serious adverse events were 
also clearly related to the neoplastic disease and none appeared to be drug- or dose-related. There was 
an equal distribution of non-serious adverse events among all dosage groups, and almost all of these 
events were considered not to be drug-related.  
8/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicity  of  ibandronic  acid  includes  low-grade  fever  in  as  many  as  9  percent  of  patients,  and 
possibility  of  reversible  hepatocellular  injury  (liver  enzyme  increase).  The  increase  of  body 
temperature  is  likely  to  be  related  to  release  of  cytokines  from  osteoclasts,  monocytes  and 
macrophages. This effect can be combined with flu-like symptoms, i.e. myalgia, bone pain, headache, 
pain  in  the  extremities,  hot  flushes  and  increased  sweating,  and  occurred  within  the  first  three  days 
after treatment. 
Other  adverse  reactions  related  to  ibandronic  acid  were  changes  in  serum  electrolytes  composition 
(hypocalcaemia,  hypophosphatemia,  hypomagnesaemia).  Hypocalcaemia  and  hypophosphatemia  are 
adverse effects that can be attributed to the pharmacological effect of ibandronic acid. These changes 
are mentioned in the SPC, and continuous monitoring is recommended. Hypertension, hypercalciuria, 
diarrhoea, vomiting have been reported in isolated cases. 
Since  the  kidney  and  to  a  lesser  extent  the  liver  were  the  toxicological  target  organs  in  animal 
experiments, special attention has been paid to renal and hepatic function in the clinical studies. Single 
i.v. dosing (2 mg) in healthy volunteers did not cause any sign of early renal tubule lesions. Serious 
renal side effects have not been reported in the clinical studies. Although no signs of renal or hepatic 
dysfunction have been observed, close monitoring of the kidney and liver function is recommended.  
No  local  intolerance  after  intravenous  administration  was  seen  in  man.  Given  that  inadvertent  intra-
arterial administration as well as paravenous administration can lead to tissue damage, it was required 
that  the  SPC  mentions  the  necessity  to  ensure  that  ibandronic  acid  is  administered  strictly 
intravenously. 
The  company  has  agreed  to  perform  a  Post  Marketing  Surveillance  study  in  order  to  describe  the 
safety of a single intravenous infusion of ibandronic acid (2 - 4 mg) in patients with hypercalcaemia of 
malignancy.  This  would  be  an  open  multinational  multicenter  programme  aimed  at  monitoring  the 
incidence of adverse events. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Ibandronic  acid,  a  new  therapeutic  agent  that  belongs  to  the  class  of  bisphosphonates,  inhibits 
osteoclast-related bone resorption and is effective in reducing elevated serum calcium in patients with 
malignant  diseases.  With  dose  ranging  from  2  to  4  mg  intravenous  administration  over  a  2-hour 
infusion, 75% of the patients will achieve serum calcium within the normal range. The normalisation 
of  this  biochemical  marker  is  considered  to  be  of  clear  clinical  benefit  for  patients  affected  by 
malignancy-related hypercalcaemia.  
The starting dose should be chosen on the basis of the severity of the hypercalcaemia and the tumour 
type because those two factors have been shown to influence the therapeutic response of the 
ibandronic acid treatment. 
Although there is limited experience with patients who received a second administration of ibandronic 
acid, patients who either experience a recurrent hypercalcaemia episode or fail to show efficacy after 
the first administration could benefit from a second infusion.  
Ibandronic  acid  associated  adverse  events  were  few  and  mild  in  relation  to  the  severity  of  the 
underlying disease, the most frequent being fever and changes in serum electrolytes composition such 
as hypocalcaemia, hypomagnesemia and hypophosphatemia. They were similar to those observed with 
other  bisphosphonate  compounds.  Additional  clinical  safety  data  based  on  proper  Post  Marketing 
Surveillance  study  have  been  submitted  in  order  to  better  define  the  overall  safety  profile  of  this 
medicinal product. 
In  the  light  of  the  current  scientific  data  the  CPMP  agreed  to  grant  a  positive  opinion  for  this 
medicinal  product  for  the  following  indication:  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia  with  or  without 
metastases. 
6. 
New presentation: 6 mg/ 6ml  
The MAH now applied to add a new presentation: 6mg/6ml of the strength of 1mg/ml.  
9/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 1  Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The additional dosage presentation 6 mg/6 ml has been developed in addition to and on the basis of 
the  existing  IV  formulations.  The  already  approved  dosage  strengths  are:  1  mg/1  ml,  2mg/2  ml  and 
4mg/4 ml, for the treatment of hypercalcaemia of malignancy. 
Composition 
The  compositions  are  identical  on  a  mg/ml  basis.  Bondronat  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  6 
mg/6ml  ibandronic  acid  contains  6.75  mg  ibandronic  acid,  monosodium  salt,  monohydrate  – 
equivalent to 6 mg ibandronic acid. 
During the clinical development 1 mg/1 ml was used. 
Drug substance 
The drug substance is well characterised and is already marketed in the European Union in the form of 
Bondronat concentrate for infusion 1 mg/1 ml, 2mg/2ml and 4 mg/4ml  
The  synthesis  of  Ibandronic  acid  has  been  described  sufficiently  and  the  in-process  control  is 
considered adequate. The specification set to control the active substance is acceptable with regard to 
chosen requirements.  
The  test  procedures  used  for  the  release  of  the  drug  substance  have  been  validated  extensively. 
Analytical  results  of  57  batches  produced  since  1992  are  presented.  All  within  the  set  limits  in  the 
specification. 
Excipients 
No excipients are derived from ruminants. Furthermore, neither starting material nor reagents used in the 
synthesis are derived from ruminants.  
However, CoA for all excipients should be submitted.  
Product development and finished product 
The  pharmaceutical  development  has  been  satisfactorily  addressed.  The  critical  manufacturing  steps 
have  been  identified  and  evaluated.  Appropriate  IPC's  are  carried  out.  Validation  data  have  been 
submitted  for  2  pilot  and  3  production  scale  batches,  and  the  results  indicate  consistency  of  product 
quality. The 30 hours holding time is the same as approved for the other dosage strengths. 
The manufacturing processes are adequately described and validated. 
1.  Manufacturing process 
The  manufacturing  site  is  Roche  Diagnostics  GmbH,  Mannheim,  Germany,  where  conventional 
equipment and validated manufacturing procedures are used to ensure a safe and reproducable quality. 
The product contains standard excipients, and standard packaging materials are used. 
The specifications and control tests for the finished product comply with the requirements of the Ph. 
Eur.  and  are  in  line  with  the  relevant  guidelines  (ICH  Topic  Q6A  and  Q3B).  All  methods  are 
sufficiently described and validated. The limits and parameters in specifications have been justified and 
are considered adequate. 
Batch analysis data consists of 5 batches. All results are within the set specifications. 
Stability 
The stability data provided support the proposed shelf-life of 60 months, after reconstitution 24 hours 
at 2-8°C. No storage remark is required.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
This  is  a  standard  formulation  of  a  conventional  dosage  form,  and  the  manfacturing  process  is 
validated.  The  specifications  set  to  control  the  finished  product  are  in  compliance  with  ICH 
requirements for impurities and the control of the finished product is satisfactory, and should ensure a 
product with uniform and reliable performance in the clinic. 
This  presentation  will  be  more  convenient  for  administration  to  breast  cancer  patients  with  bone 
metastases as the recommended dose for metastatic bone disease is 6 mg IV given every 3-4 weeks. 
The dose should be infused over 1 hour. 
10/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Introduction 
Bondronat concentrate for solution for infusion 1 mg/1 ml and 2 mg/2 ml and 4 mg/4ml ibandronic acid 
have already been approved in the EU Centralised Procedure for the treatment of malignancy-associated 
hypercalcaemia in patients with or without bone metastases. More than 350,000 patients have been 
treated with i.v. ibandronate since it has been on the market. 
The MAH now applied to add a new presentation (6mg/6ml) of the strength.  
2 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The additional dosage presentation 6 mg/6 ml has been developed in addition to and on the basis of 
the  existing  IV  formulations.  The  already  approved  dosage  strengths  are:  1  mg/1  ml,  2mg/2  ml  and 
4mg/4 ml, for the treatment of hypercalcaemia of malignancy. 
Composition 
The  compositions  are  identical  on  a  mg/ml  basis.  Bondronat  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  6 
mg/6ml  ibandronic  acid  contains  6.75  mg  ibandronic  acid,  monosodium  salt,  monohydrate  – 
equivalent to 6 mg ibandronic acid. 
During the clinical development 1 mg/1 ml was used. 
Drug substance 
The drug substance is well characterised and is already marketed in the European Union in the form of 
Bondronat concentrate for infusion 1 mg/1 ml, 2mg/2ml and 4 mg/4ml  
The  synthesis  of  Ibandronic  acid  has  been  described  sufficiently  and  the  in-process  control  is 
considered adequate. The specification set to control the active substance is acceptable with regard to 
chosen requirements.  
The  test  procedures  used  for  the  release  of  the  drug  substance  have  been  validated  extensively. 
Analytical  results  of  57  batches  produced  since  1992  are  presented.  All  within  the  set  limits  in  the 
specification. 
Excipients 
No excipients are derived from ruminants. Furthermore, neither starting material nor reagents used in the 
synthesis are derived from ruminants.  
However, CoA for all excipients should be submitted.  
Product development and finished product 
The  pharmaceutical  development  has  been  satisfactorily  addressed.  The  critical  manufacturing  steps 
have  been  identified  and  evaluated.  Appropriate  IPC's  are  carried  out.  Validation  data  have  been 
submitted  for  2  pilot  and  3  production  scale  batches,  and  the  results  indicate  consistency  of  product 
quality. The 30 hours holding time is the same as approved for the other dosage strengths. 
The manufacturing processes are adequately described and validated. 
2.  Manufacturing process 
The  manufacturing  site  is  Roche  Diagnostics  GmbH,  Mannheim,  Germany,  where  conventional 
equipment and validated manufacturing procedures are used to ensure a safe and reproducable quality. 
The product contains standard excipients, and standard packaging materials are used. 
The specifications and control tests for the finished product comply with the requirements of the Ph. 
Eur.  and  are  in  line  with  the  relevant  guidelines  (ICH  Topic  Q6A  and  Q3B).  All  methods  are 
sufficiently described and validated. The limits and parameters in specifications have been justified and 
are considered adequate. 
Batch analysis data consists of 5 batches. All results are within the set specifications. 
Stability 
The stability data provided support the proposed shelf-life of 60 months, after reconstitution 24 hours 
at 2-8°C. No storage remark is required.  
11/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
This  is  a  standard  formulation  of  a  conventional  dosage  form,  and  the  manfacturing  process  is 
validated.  The  specifications  set  to  control  the  finished  product  are  in  compliance  with  ICH 
requirements for impurities and the control of the finished product is satisfactory, and should ensure a 
product with uniform and reliable performance in the clinic. 
Conclusion 
There  are  no  unresolved  quality  aspects  which  could  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  benefit/risk 
balance.  Furthermore,  this  presentation  will  be  more  convenient  for  administration  to  breast  cancer 
patients  with  bone  metastases  (indication  discussed  under  section  8  of  this  EPAR)  as  the 
recommended dose for metastatic bone disease is 6 mg IV given every 3-4 weeks. The dose should be 
infused over 1 hour. 
7. 
Line extension:   Bondronat 50 mg, film coated tablet 
The MAH applied to introduce oral ibandronate as film coated tablets of 50 mg. This formulation is 
intended to be used for a new indication:  Prevention of skeletal events (pathological fractures, bone 
complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, 
which was applied in parallel also for all licensed presentations  and is discussed under section 8 of 
this EPAR. 
The recommended oral dose is one 50 mg tablet daily. 
7. 1.  Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Biological aspects 
Bondronat exists in the EU market as a concentrate for solution for infusion, 1mg/ml in various 
volumes. This line extension extends the pharmaceutical form to include a film-coated tablet, 50mg. 
Composition 
Bondronat 50 mg film-coated tablets contain 50 mg ibandronic acid (corresponding to 56.25 mg 
monosodium salt, monohydrate) and are packaged in a PVC thermoforming film which is sealed with 
a heat-seal coated aluminium lidding foil. 
The composition is standard for a tablet, and all excipients comply with the relevant PhEur 
monographs and are listed in the SPC (q.v.).  
Drug substance 
Information on the drug substance supplements the information supplied when the solution for 
infusion was first authorised, and has been updated by approved variations. 
Manufacture  
The  synthesis  comprises  seven  steps.  In-process  controls  are  performed  via  validated  GC  methods 
(purity,  content)  as  well  as  at  the  level  of  the  purified  active  ingredient  before  milling  (content  of 
water  and  residual  solvents).  The  manufacturing  process  as  well  as  the  in-process  controls  are 
sufficiently described. 
No catalysts are used. As solvents acetone, ethanol, methanol, diethylcarbonate, diisopropylether and 
methylethylketone  are  used.  Specifications  of  all  starting  materials,  reagents  and  solvents  used  are 
presented.  As  confirmed  by  release  data  homogeneous  batches  are  produced  and  the  manufacturing 
process can be considered as robust. 
Structure elucidation was performed sufficiently, interpretation of all spectra is included. 
Residual 
and 
diethylcarbonate)  are  controlled  adequately.  Catalysts  are  not  used,  however,  a  heavy  metal  test  is 
included within the specification. 
ethanol,  diisopropylether,  methylethylketone 
(acetone,  methanol, 
solvents 
12/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The substance is a very stable compound as demonstrated by long-term studies. Only under extreme 
conditions in stress studies (i.e. oxidative conditions), a small increase of phosphate and phosphite was 
observed. 
Drug Substance Specification 
The  specification  includes  tests  with  relevant  limits  for  identification,  assay  (HPLC),  related 
impurities,  water  content,  residual  solvents,  heavy  metals,  bacterial  endotoxins,  and  particle  size 
distribution via granulometry (laser diffraction).  
 A large number of  batch analytical profiles has been accumulated over the years, and these  reveal a 
reproducible manufacturing process leading to homogeneous batches.  
Stability of the Drug Substance 
This is well-known from the first authorisation of the solution for infusion. 
Several  stress  tests  were  undertaken  to  induce  degradation  of  the  active  ingredient.  Only  in  the 
presence  of  hydrogen  peroxide  decomposition  occurred,  indicated  by  slightly  increasing  contents  of 
phosphate, phosphite and two unknown impurities.  
Three batches were stored as recommended in the ICH guideline on "Stability Testing of New Drug 
Substances  and  Products"  (25°C/60  r.h.  and  30°C  for  five  years,  40°C  and  40°C/75%  r.h.  for  six 
months).  Additionally,  results  of  four  batches  are  included  in  the  stability  report  as  supportive  data. 
All results comply with the specification.  
Though the titration performed for assay can not be regarded as a stability-indicating method itself, in 
combination  with  the  various  purity  tests  to  investigate  degradation  products  (TLC  and  HPLC)  the 
overall stability-indicating capacity of the testing system can be assured. 
Furthermore, it has to be noted that no catalysts are used within the production of the active ingredient, 
traces of which could exhibit a negative influence on the stability by inducing degradation. 
As  demonstrated  by  the  stability  data  a  re-test  period  has  been  justified  when  packaged  in 
polyethylene liners in fiber drums or cardboard boxes and stored below 30°C. 
Other Ingredients 
All  excipients  contained  in  Bondronat  50  mg  film-coated  tablets  comply  with  the  relevant  PhEur 
monographs. For the commercial mixture opadry 00A28646 a specification, method descriptions and a 
certificate  of  analysis  are  supplied.  All  ingredients  correspond  to  relevant  PhEur  monographs  and 
certificates of analyses of all excipients have been provided. 
Product Development and Finished Product 
The  development  of  this  tablet  is  standard.  The  active  substance  is  very  stable.  It  is  used  as  a  fine 
crystalline powder and is freely soluble in water, so the tablets dissolve very rapidly in aqueous media: 
Dissolution >85% after 15 minutes. The film-coating has no effect on the dissolution rate.  
A second polymorfic form (B) has been identified, but it has similar solubility and intrinsic dissolution 
properties  to  polymorph  A  and  is  not  expected  to  affect  the  tablet  performance,  if  present  in  the 
tablets.  The  manufacturing  processes  are  expected  to  produce  tablets  containing  exclusively 
polymorph A. 
Compatibility studies of the active ingredient with a  number  of excipients have been performed and 
based on these results the excipients mentioned above have been selected for the composition of the 
medicinal  product.  All  excipients  used  are  of  PhEur  quality  and  commonly  used  within 
pharmaceutical solid dosage forms. 
No overages are used except for the film-coating, which is acceptable due to losses characteristic for 
this production step.  
Manufacture  
Povidone is dissolved in purified water. A mixture of ibandronic acid, lactose monohydrate and part of 
the  microcrystalline  cellulose  is  spray-granulated  with  the  granulation  solution  and  dried.  After 
sieving, the remaining excipients are added to the granulate. The described manufacturing steps may 
13/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
be  performed  in  subbatches,  which  are  combined  at  this  stage.  After  mixing  the  granulate  is 
compressed  to  tablet  cores  using  a  rotary  press.  Finally,  the  coating  suspension  is  prepared  from 
opadry,  macrogol and water  and sprayed  onto  the  tablet  kernels. Thus,  the  manufacturing  process is 
described sufficiently by the applicant.  
The following in-process controls are performed: the granulate is checked for loss on drying, the tablet 
cores  are  controlled  for  weight  (individual  and  average)  and  hardness  and,  finally,  the  film-coated 
tablets are tested for weight (individual and average).  
No  critical  steps  are  observed.  The  homogeneous  distribution  of  the  active  ingredient  has  been 
demonstrated. 
Product Specification 
The  same  specification  is  applied  for  release  and  for  shelf  life  concerning  the  assay  of  the  active 
substance. The identity of the active ingredient is determined by means of two independent methods as 
recommended in the ICH guideline Q6A.  
The impurity limits set are in accordance with ICH guideline Q3B, which requires identification above 
0.2% and qualification above 200 µg (corresponding to 0.4%) for the proposed maximum daily intake 
of ibandronic acid.  
Limits set for the disintegration test are tighter than supposed within the PhEur.  
The microbiological purity is tested on the first five production batches and thereafter twice a year. A 
test  for  the  identity  of  the  colouring  agent  is  described  and  is  integrated  in  the  specification.  The 
methods are validated according to relevant EU/ICH guidelines. 
Batch analysis data at release prove the homogeneity of the production process. 
Stability of the Product 
The active ingredient has been proven to be a very stable compound and this is also reflected in the 
stability of the product, which has been demonstrated by studies under ICH conditions. Furthermore, 
during development several batches have been monitored using three different TLC systems and one 
HPLC  method. No  significant increase in  any degradation product was observed. The limits applied 
for unspecified impurities also are in line with ICH topic Q3B. 
All methods used during analytical development are discussed and described sufficiently.  
The  results  of  the  stability  investigations  by  validated  stability-indicating  methods  confirm  the  shelf 
life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
This is a standard formulation of a conventional dosage form, and the manufacturing process is 
validated. The specifications set to control the finished product are in compliance with ICH 
requirements for impurities and the control of the finished product is satisfactory, and should ensure a 
product with uniform and reliable performance in the clinic. At the time of the CPMP opinion, there 
were a number of unresolved minor quality issues having no impact on the benefit/risk balance. The 
applicant agreed to resolve these as post-opinion follow up measures within a defined timeframe. 
Conclusion 
The physicochemical characteristics, manufacture and control of the active substance is unchanged 
and the evaluation of the pharmaceutical dossier has focused on the dosage form. The manufacture, 
control and stability of the tablet indicates compliance with current EU norms, and indicates 
satisfactory uniformity and clinical performance from batch to batch. There are no unresolved quality 
aspects which could have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
8. 
Additional indication:  Bone metastases due to breast cancer 
The  MAH  applied  to  extend  the  licensed  indication  to  include  "Prevention  of  skeletal  events 
(pathological fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with 
14/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
breast cancer and bone metastases”. In parallel the MAH applied to introduce oral ibandronate as 
film  coated  tablets  of  50  mg  to  be  used  for  the  above  indication  and  to  add  a  new  presentation 
(6mg/6ml) of the existing liquid formulation. 
The  recommended  dose  for  metastatic  bone  disease  is  6  mg  IV  given  every  3-4  weeks.  The  dose 
should be infused over 1 hour.  
Bondronat concentrate for solution for infusion 1 mg/1 ml and 2 mg/2 ml and 4 mg/4ml ibandronic acid 
have already been approved in the EU Centralised Procedure for the treatment of malignancy-associated 
hypercalcaemia in patients with or without bone metastases. More than 350,000 patients have been 
treated with i.v. ibandronate since it has been on the market. 
1 
Introduction 
Breast  cancer  is  the  most  common  carcinoma  in  women.  Of  those  with  recurrent  disease,  30%  will 
develop  their  first  metastases  in  bone,  and  skeletal  disease  will  be  present  in  approximately  80%  at 
death.  The  most  common  skeletal  complications  are  bone  pain,  spinal  cord  compression  and 
pathological  fractures  at  both  axial  and  appendicular  sites  that  might  require  palliative  radiotherapy, 
surgery  and  analgesics.  A  systemic  consequence  is  hypercalcaemia,  which  can  be  life  threatening. 
Symptoms  include  confusion,  dehydration  and  weakness.  These  complications  impair  markedly  the 
quality of life of affected patients.  
Two mechanisms are considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of metastatic bone disease. Firstly, 
direct tumour osteolysis resulting from the local invasion of the bone and marrow by tumour cells, and 
secondly,  production  by  the  tumour  itself  of  humoral  factors  such  as  parathyroid  hormone-related 
peptide  (PTHrP)  which  directly  increase  osteoclastic  bone  resorption  and/or  the  renal  tubular  re-
absorption of calcium.  
Bisphosphonates are analogues of pyrophosphate containing a P-C-P bond, which allows tight binding 
of the compound to hydroxyapatite crystals (the mineral component of bone). Although their mode of 
action is complex, bisphosphonates have been shown to localise preferentially to sites of active bone 
remodelling and inhibit the action of mature osteoclasts (the cells effecting bone resorption), probably 
via  an  effect  on  enzymes  of  the  mevalonate  pathway.  Recent  findings  also  suggest  that 
bisphosphonates  can  induce  osteoclast  apoptosis  as  well  as  indirectly  inhibiting  the  recruitment  of 
osteoclasts  by  inducing  the  release  of  inhibitory  factors  from  osteoblasts  and  inhibiting  farnesyl 
pyrophosphate  synthetase  in  the  mevalonate  pathway  and  the  prenylation  of  proteins,  leading  to 
reduced synthesis of the isoprenoid geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate and subsequently of the prenylation 
of small GTP-binding proteins that are essential for the integrity of the cytoskeleton of the osteoclasts 
and  for  intracellular  signalling.  The  net  effect  is  a  reduction  in  the  excessive  bone  resorption  and 
progressive destruction of the bone seen in these disease states. 
The  bisphosphonates  have  been  extensively  investigated  in  the  treatment  and  prevention  of  skeletal 
complications  due  to  malignant  disease.  Clodronate  (oral)  and  pamidronate  (i.v.)  have  both  been 
shown to be effective in reducing bone pain and excessive bone resorption from osteolytic metastases 
as  well  as  in  the  treatment  of  hypercalcaemia  of  malignancy.  Zometa  (zoledronic  acid)  has  recently 
been  approved  through  the  centralised  procedure  for  the  prevention  of  skeletal  complications  in 
patients  with  various  malignant  diseases.  In  an  active  control  study  in  patients  with  metastatic  bone 
disease due to multiple myeloma or breast cancer, zoledronic acid (4 mg i.v. infusion over 15 minutes) 
demonstrated similar efficacy and safety to pamidronate (90 mg i.v. over two hours).  
Ibandronate,  [3-(N-methyl-N-pentyl)  amino-1-hydoxypropane-1,1-diphosphonic  acid,  monosodium, 
monohydrate] (INN Ibandronic acid) is a nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate. It is a ‘third generation’ 
bisphosphonate with a nitrogen containing side chain, which has been investigated in the treatment of 
metastatic bone disease due to breast cancer. 
15/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics  
The non-clinical development programme comprised primary pharmacodynamic studies in in-vitro 
and in-vivo models of metastatic bone disease. These were conducted to provide proof of concept for 
the proposed indication, but were too limited to guide the selection of human dose levels. The 
secondary pharmacodynamic, safety pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies submitted 
in support of the extension are identical to those included in the recent application (EMEA/H/C/501-
502) proposing the use of ibandronate 2.5 mg/day p.o. to treat and prevent osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women. 
In vitro studies  
Pre-incubation  of  cortical  and  trabecular  bone  slices  with  ibandronate  10-6-10-4  M  in  vitro  caused  a 
dose-dependent inhibition  of the adhesion  of MDA-MB-231  cells to the calcified  matrix, with ID50s 
just below 10-6 M (≈ 0.4 µg/ml). Pre-incubation of a non-mineralised bone matrix with ibandronate did 
not  inhibit  the  attachment  of  MDA-MB-231,  MCF-7  and  prostate  (PC3  and  PmPC3)  cell  lines. 
However, when the cancer cells were pre-treated with ibandronate, concentrations of 1-5 x 10-12 M ≈ 
0.4-2 pg/ml markedly inhibited their attachment to both cortical bone and the non-mineralised matrix 
as well as tumour-cell invasion through an artificial basement membrane. The mechanism of action of 
the inhibition of tumour-cell adhesion and invasion are unknown, as there was no effect on tumour-
cell  viability  or  expression  of  integrins  (matrix  receptors)  or  matrix  metalloproteinases  (MMP), 
although MMP activity was reduced due to zinc chelation. Higher concentrations (10-6- 2.5 x 10-4 M ≈ 
0.4-100 µg/ml) induced apoptosis or necrosis in human mammary cancer cell lines (T47D > MCF-7 
>> MDA-MB-231). 
In vivo studies  
Primary  pharmacodynamics  investigated  the  effect  on  bone  lesions  in  in-vivo  models  of  metastatic 
bone  disease  and  on  tumour-cell  adhesion,  invasion  and  growth  in  vitro.  In  rodents  inoculated  with 
human  or  syngeneic  tumour  cells  with  affinity  for  bone,  ibandronate  15-160  µg/kg/day  s.c. 
consistently  reduced  the  take  and  growth  of  osteolytic  bone  metastases.  As  none  of  the  studies 
included more than one dose level, a dose-response curve could not be established. Early intervention 
was more effective than late. Treatment did not prolong survival and had inconsistent effects on non-
bone  lesions.  In  vitro,  exposure  to  picomolar  concentrations  of  ibandronate  inhibited  tumour-cell 
invasion  and  adhesion  to  bone  matrices  (mineralised  or  not),  whereas  levels  from  1-250  µM  were 
required to kill the tumour cells. By comparison, ibandronate inhibits osteoclastic bone resorption at 
low nanomolar concentrations. The proposed human dose is expected to produce blood levels ranging 
3-140 nM (10-500 ng/ml),  whereas a local  concentration of several hundred  µM  may occur in  bone 
resorption lacunae. As such, both inhibitions of invasion/adhesion and cytotoxicity may contribute to 
the  effect  on  bone  metastases,  whereas  toxic  effects  on  tumour  cells  in  other  organs  would  be 
negligible. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics showed ibandronate to be a potent inhibitor of osteoclast activity that 
increases bone mass and calcium balance in growing animals, but not in full-grown, intact adults. In 
models of tumour-induced bone resorption and hypercalcaemia, it demonstrated a linear dose-response 
relationship  with  respect  to  osteolysis,  whereas  there  was  no  effect  on  the  increase  in  renal  tubular 
absorption  of  calcium  induced  by  parathyroid-hormone-related  protein.  In  spayed  rats,  dogs  and 
Cynomolgus  monkeys,  which  are  well-established  models  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis, 
ibandronate  caused  a  consistent,  dose-dependent  inhibition  or  reversal  of  ovariectomy-induced 
decreases in bone mass and strength in cancellous bone, with less pronounced effects on cortical bone. 
These effects were evident at dose levels below or around the proposed human dose of 6 mg i.v. every 
3-4  weeks  ≈  3-6  µg/kg/day  in  a  50-  to  70-kg  person.  Ibandronate  had  no  adverse  effects  on  bone 
quality in intact dogs and rats given oral doses of up to 10 and 15 mg/kg/day corresponding to 10-15 
times the proposed human dose for 1 and 2 years, respectively. However, there was a trend towards 
16/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impairment  of  bone  formation  and  mineralisation  in  ovariectomised  dogs  administered  ≥  4.1 
µg/kg/day s.c., which is close to the projected human exposure.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Limited  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  studies  indicate  that  ibandronate  may  reduce  or  enhance 
the effect of anticancer agents, depending on their mode of action.  
General and safety pharmacology programme  
The safety  pharmacology studies revealed no  adverse effects  on the central nervous, cardiovascular, 
respiratory or gastrointestinal system at exposures well above those anticipated in humans. In rats and 
dogs  administered  5-20  mg/kg  p.o.,  there  was  a  decrease  in  urinary  volume  and/or  Na+  /K+  ratio. 
Likewise, there was an increase in serum creatinine in all treatment groups in an osteoporosis study in 
ovariectomised  dogs  administered  0.8,  1.2,  4.1  or  14  µg/kg/day  s.c.  5  days  a  week  for  12  months. 
Further investigation to elucidate this effect was conducted during the toxicity studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Around  50%  of  a  single  dose  of  ibandronate  were  taken  up  by  calcified  tissue  and  1-3%  by  non-
calcified tissue. The primary pharmacological effect on bone is not directly related to blood levels, but 
rather  to  the  amount  taken  up  by  bone.  Therefore,  it  is  acceptable  that  the  pharmacokinetic  studies 
focus on the measurement of drug concentrations in bone and on tissue distribution studies. 
The oral bioavailability of ibandronate in rats and dogs is about 1%, and is further reduced by 
concomitant intake of food and calcium in rats. Ibandronate is not metabolised anywhere in the body, 
except possibly for a very small fraction in the duodenum.  
Clearance  parameters  could  not  be  reliably  measured  in  rats.  In  dogs  given  0.01  mg/kg  ibandronate 
s.c.,  41.9  %  of  the  dose  was  excreted  in  urine  after  24  hours.  Volume  of  distribution  was  7.3  l/kg, 
indicating  penetration  into  a  deep  compartment  (bone,  liver  and  kidney).  Excretion  is  almost 
exclusively through urine.  
Serum  kinetics  was  determined  in  ovariectomised  Cynomolgus  monkeys  given  10,  30  and  150 
µg/kg/month i.v. for 16 months. Exposure was linear in relation to dose, thus clearance mechanisms 
were not saturated. 
In rats given 0.1 mg/kg 14C-ibandronate i.v., 50% of the dose was found in calcified tissue after 2 and 
24 hours. Radioactivity was 17-38 times higher in calcified tissue than in non-calcified tissue. There 
was  a  large,  unexplained  variation  between  studies  in  the  labelling  of  calcified  tissues.  Relative 
distribution of radioactivity was bone >> liver > kidneys > spleen. Autoradiography in rats given 0.1 
mg/kg  14C-ibandronate  i.v.  for  7  days  clearly  showed  that  bone  tissue  is  the  main  target  for 
accumulation.  The  tissues  ranked  in  order  of  amount  of  radioactivity  were  bone  >>>  kidney  (renal 
cortex) > liver, faeces and spleen. Radioactivity in the kidney (renal cortex) was higher after repeated 
dosing  than  after  single  dosing.  Distribution  studies  in  rats  given  14C-ibandronate  i.v.  for  7  days 
showed  that  radioactivity  increased  4-7  fold  in  calcified  tissues  and  kidneys  during  repeated 
administration, whereas other organs showed only little (… 2-fold) or no accumulation. Accumulation 
in the kidneys may explain the nephrotoxicity observed in chronic toxicity studies. 
Ibandronate concentration in bone was determined in intact rats after 2 years' daily oral dosing of 3, 7 
or 15 mg/kg ibandronate. The uptake of ibandronate was dose-dependent and linear, with no evidence 
of  skeletal  saturation.  This  indicates  a  normal  bone  physiology  after  lifelong  administration  of  15 
times  the  proposed  human  dose.  Bone  uptake  was  also  linear  with  dose  in  aged  ovariectomised  rats 
treated for 12  months with up to 25  µg/kg/day  s.c. However, rats do not  have Haversian canals and 
may  not  be  reliable  models  of  bone  remodelling  in  humans.  Indeed,  in  ovariectomised  Cynomolgus 
monkeys  treated  for  16  months,  bone  concentrations  appeared  to  be  dose-dependent  in  a  non-linear 
fashion.  The  non-linearity  was  explained  by  the  suppression  of  bone  turnover  secondary  to 
ovariectomy. However,  there were signs of saturation at a dose level that was practically identical to 
the expected human exposure. Therefore, it cannot be excluded that the proposed dose regimens will 
result in "frozen bone" in postmenopausal patients.  
17/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The average binding of ibandronate to plasma proteins determined in vitro was around 83-87%. 
In rats, excretion in the faeces after i.v. administration was 5-20% and biliary excretion was practically 
zero. In dogs, elimination via the faeces after i.v. administration was negligible (0.4%). Ibandronate 
was excreted in the milk and crossed the placental barrier.  
No  enzyme  induction  took  place  in  the  liver  of  ibandronate-treated  rats,  and  ibandronate  did  not 
inhibit  any  of  the  major  cytochrome  P450  iso-enzymes  in  human  liver  microsomes,  suggesting  that 
hepatic drug-drug interactions are unlikely to occur in man. 
Toxicology 
The acute toxicity was low by oral, but relatively high by i.v. administration. A single i.v. dose of 1 
mg/kg caused degeneration and single-cell necrosis in the proximal part of the convoluted tubules in 
rats,  and  5  mg/kg  was  associated  with  a  reversible  reduction  in  kidney  function  in  dogs.  The 
pathogenesis of the kidney damage is unknown. 
Studies not previously submitted comprised a 12-month oral rat study with 6  months' recovery, a 6-
month  dog  study  with  13  weeks'  recovery  (gelatine  capsule),  a  12-month  dog  study  with  6  months' 
recovery (tablet) and 6-month i.v. studies in the rat and dog.  
Expected  pharmacodynamic  effects  included  slight  hypocalcaemia,  increases  in  endochondral 
ossification and trabecular bone mass and haematological changes secondary to the decrease in bone 
marrow  space.  In  dogs  there  was  a  dose-related  occurrence  of  adverse  bone  effects  such  as  focal 
necrosis  of  endochondral  zones  and  focal  inflammatory  changes  (oedema,  haemorrhage,  infiltration, 
fibrosis) in the bone marrow. The NOAEL for these effects was 5 mg/kg/day p.o. and 0.15 mg/kg once 
weekly or 0.3 mg/kg twice a month, i.v. administration, corresponding to a safety margin of 4-5. 
In all repeat-dose studies, the key target organ was the kidney. In the 12-month oral studies, reversible 
degeneration,  hypertrophy and/or  hyperplasia  of the  tubules  occurred in rats at 10  mg/kg/day and  in 
dogs  at  5  mg/kg/day.  In  the  26-week  i.v.  studies,  0.3  mg/kg  caused  kidney  lesions  in  both  species 
when administered once a week, but not when given twice a month. Safety margins calculated from 
AUC  or  Cmax  values  at  the  highest  dose  without  kidney  abnormalities  ranged  from  less  than  1  to  9, 
Toxic effects on the liver, gastro-intestinal tract and the airways were only seen at clinically irrelevant 
dose levels. 
Genotoxicity  was  studied  with  respect  to  gene  mutations  in  bacteria  and  mammalian  cells  and 
chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro  and  vivo.  There  was  no  evidence  of  genotoxic  potential  in  any  of 
these tests. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  by  oral  gavage  in  rats  and  mice  and  by  administration  in 
drinking water in mice. An increased incidence of benign histiocytomas of the skin in male rats and of 
C-cell  adenomas  in  female  rats  was  incidental  and  unrelated  to  treatment.  Likewise,  there  were  no 
treatment-related tumours in mice. Whereas reasonable exposure multiples  were achieved in mice, a 
comparison  of  measured  AUC  values  in  rats  and  humans  raises  doubt  about  the  adequacy  of  the 
exposure  attained  in  the  female  sex.  Nevertheless,  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  is  considered 
acceptable for the following reasons:  
•  The highest dose was equal to the maximum tolerated oral dose, hence a higher exposure may not 
be feasible.  
•  There were unequivocal pharmacodynamic and toxic effects in the high-dose group.  
•  Bondronat  is  indicated  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  metastatic  bone  disease  due  to  breast 
cancer, that is, in severely ill cancer patients with a poor prognosis. 
In  p.o.  and  i.v.  fertility  studies  in  the  rat,  ibandronate  was  found  to  reduce  sperm  concentration  and 
decrease  the  number  of  corpora  lutea  and  increase  pre-implantation  losses.  When  given  by  oral 
gavage,  it  was  foetotoxic,  but  not  teratogenic  in  rats.  However,  as  foetal  effects  were  limited  to 
variations with a high spontaneous occurrence and there was no foetotoxicity in the i.v. rat study or in 
18/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the rabbit, ibandronate is considered unlikely to be a direct toxicant. In offspring exposed in utero and 
through  the  milk,  there  were  no  direct  effects  on  growth,  behaviour  or  reproductive  performance. 
Dystocia  in  rat  dams  and  teeth  abnormalities  in  their  pups  could  be  attributed  to  disturbances  in 
maternal calcium metabolism. The effects on fertility and development occurred at exposures equal to 
or below the proposed human dose (up to 1 mg/kg/day by mouth or 0.12 mg/kg every 3-4 weeks by 
i.v.  infusion).  Given  the  proposed  indication,  they  do  not  give  cause  for  concern,  particularly  as  the 
SPCs contain appropriate warnings against use during pregnancy and lactation.  
In  local  tolerance  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  solutions  of  ibandronate  were  well  tolerated  when 
administered i.v., but severely irritant when given paravenously or s.c.  As such, the solution should 
only  be  administered  by  the  i.v.  route.  The  corrosiveness  of  the  drug  substance  indicates  that  the 
tablets may cause irritation or burns to the oesophagus and gastric mucosa. Appropriate warnings to 
this effect are included in the SPCs for the tablets.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  antigenicity  or  immunotoxicity.  The  expected  risk  to  the  aquatic 
environment is very low. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  satisfactory  proof  of  concept  for  the  proposed 
indication,  but  were  too  limited  to  guide  the  selection  of  human  dose  levels.  The  secondary 
pharmacodynamic, safety pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies submitted in support 
of the extension are identical to those included in the recent application for Bonviva proposing the use 
of ibandronate 2.5 mg/day p.o. to treat and prevent osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. 
The pharmacokinetic studies focus on the measurement of drug concentrations in bone and on tissue 
distribution studies. The oral bioavailability of ibandronate in rats and dogs is about 1% and is further 
reduced by concomitant intake of food and calcium in rats. 
Clearance parameters in dogs given showed distribution volume of 7.3 l/kg, indicating penetration into 
a deep compartment (bone, liver and kidney) and excretion almost exclusively through urine. Serum 
kinetics  in  ovariectomised  Cynomolgus  monkeys  showed  a  linear  exposure  in  relation  to  dose,  thus 
clearance mechanisms were not saturated. Tissue distribution studies in rats showed that the bone is 
the  main  target  in  bone,  but  also  accumulation  in  kidney  (renal  cortex)  and  less  in  liver,  faeces  and 
spleen.  Accumulation  in  the  kidneys  may  explain  the  nephrotoxicity  observed  in  chronic  toxicity 
studies. 
Ibandronate  did  not  inhibit  any  of  the  major  cytochrome  P450  iso-enzymes  in  human  liver 
microsomes, suggesting that hepatic drug-drug interactions are unlikely to occur in man. 
In both acute toxicity and repeat-dose studies, the main target organ was the kidney. The pathogenesis 
of  the  kidney  damage  is  unknown.  Toxic  effects  on  the  liver,  gastro-intestinal  tract  and  the  airways 
were only seen at clinically irrelevant dose levels. 
The  conduct  of  carcinogenicity  studies  is  considered  satisfactory  in  the  context  of  the  symptomatic 
treatment of metastatic bone disease due to breast cancer, that is, in severely ill cancer patients with a 
poor prognosis. There was no evidence of genotoxic potential. 
Findings from fertility studies, they do not give cause for concern, given the proposed indication and 
particularly as the SPCs contain appropriate warnings against use during pregnancy and lactation. 
Local  tolerance  studies  have  revealed  that  ibandronate  solution  may  be  severely  irritant  if  given 
paravenously or s.c. it should only be administered by the i.v. route. The tablets may cause irritation or 
burns to the oesophagus and gastric  mucosa. These findings are reflected in the SPC by appropriate 
warnings.  
3. 
 Clinical aspects 
The clinical studies in this application were undertaken in accordance with GCP practices in place at 
the  time  of  starting  each  study.  There  is  a  minor  deviation  in  one  study,  MF  4265,  in  that  Ethics 
Committee  approval  could  not  be  sought  by  a  centre  in  Kuwait  (no  committee  constituted)  but  was 
approved  by  the  Director  of  the  cancer  centre,  as  was  normal  practice  at  that  time.  In  addition,  the 
GCP status of a number of additional studies cited from the literature cannot be validated. 
19/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The rationale for using bisphosphonates in disorders associated with increased bone resorption is well 
established.  These  compounds,  which  are  pyrophosphate  analogues,  are  selective  inhibitors  of 
osteoclast mediated bone resorption. Phase II studies in patients with MBD indicated that i.v. and p.o. 
ibandronate is effective in reducing urinary excretion of calcium as well as  lowering urinary excretion 
of the bone turnover markers in an apparent dose dependent manner.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  database  is  extensive.  i.v.  and  oral  ibandronate  was  studied  in  24  clinical 
pharmacology  studies,  involving  593  subjects  (healthy  male  volunteers,  healthy  postmenopausal 
women,  osteopenic  postmenopausal  women,  patients  with  varying  degrees  of  renal  impairment  and 
patients with MBD). The pharmacokinetics of ibandronate is generally well described.  
Following  intravenous  and  oral  administration  of  ibandronate,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  is 
consistent  and  predictable  across  the  target  population  as  well  as  in  other  populations  studied.  No 
evidence  of  dose-dependent  pharmacokinetics  has  been  found.  Time  dependency  has  been 
demonstrated as accumulation occurs in patients with osteoporosis upon prolonged exposure. A 1.5 to 
2  fold  increase  in  AUC  following  12  months  of  oral  administration  was  shown,  as  were  similar 
changes in maximum plasma concentrations. There was no systemic accumulation when ibandronate 
was administered i.v. once every 4 weeks for 48 weeks to patients with MBD. 
Pharmacokinetics has not been investigated in subjects below 18 years of age or in patient suffering 
from  hepatic  impairment.  Maximum  plasma  concentrations  of  ibandronate  are  reached  within  one 
hour when not administered concomitantly with food. Absolute bioavailability is 0.6 per  cent and is 
further reduced by 90 per cent if ibandronate is administered concomitantly with food.  
Ibandronate  is  not  metabolised  and  is  eliminated  unchanged  in  the  urine  with  a  renal  clearance  of 
about 60 ml/min. Total clearance is about 84-160 ml/min and the residual clearance probably reflects 
uptake of the drug in the bone. 
Studies in patients suffering from varying degrees of renal impairment have demonstrated a linear 
relationship between renal function and renal clearance of ibandronate. Exposure to ibandronate as 
assessed by AUC increases about two-fold in subjects with creatinine clearance below 30 ml/min. The 
mean Cmax increases by 50 per cent with a huge interindividual variation present. In subjects with 
severe renal impairment (CLcr <30mL/min) dose adjustment is recommended.  In patients with severe 
renal impairment, it is recommended that the oral dose is reduced from 50mg once daily to 50mg once 
weekly and  for the i.v. therapy, it is proposed that the infusion dose is reduced from 6 mg to 2 mg at a 
rate of 60 minutes. As the pharmacokinetics of ibandronate was not assessed in patients with end-stage 
renal disease managed by other than haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetics of ibandronate in these 
patients are unknown. An appropriate warning of the use under these circumstances is made in the 
SPC.  
In vitro studies do not suggest that ibandronate possess a potential for clinically relevant 
pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions related to cytochrome P450. In vivo interaction studies have 
been performed for concomitant administration of hormone replacement therapy, tamoxifen, 
melphalan/prednisone and ranitidine. Concomitant administration with ranitidine increased absolute 
bioavailability by 20 per cent, while no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed for the other 
drugs. The effect of ranitidine is most likely secondary to gastric pH change, and is not of clinical 
relevance. 
Clinical efficacy  
The dose selection was based on 4 phase II pharmacodynamic studies, one with i.v. ibandronate and 
three  investigating  the  efficacy  of  oral  ibandronate  in  the  treatment  of  MBD  of  cancer  (including 
breast cancer). 
Study MF 4328 was an open, non-controlled, single dose study to investigate the efficacy and safety 
of  6  different  i.v.  doses  of  ibandronate  (0.5,  1,  2,  3 mg  ibandronate  single  i.v.  injections  and  4  and 
20/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 mg ibandronate single i.v. infusions) in normocalcemic patients with MBD due to breast cancer. The 
study  period  was  limited  to  28  days.  Treatment  resulted  in  a  dose  dependent  decrease  in 
calcium/creatinine  ratio,  urinary  hydroxyproline  and  urinary  deoxypyridinoline.  The  dynamic  range 
was  greatest  for  the  calcium  creatinine  ratio.  Effects  were  observed  on  day  2  and,  at  the  end  of 
observation  (day  28),  values  were  significantly  lower  than  pre-treatment  values.  These  markers  of 
bone resorption reached a nadir and thereafter tended to increase, though not to pre-treatment values. 
The extent of relapse appeared to be dose dependent, for example, with both the 4 mg and 6 mg dose, 
calcium/creatinine decreased by 76% and 77% at day 2, but at  day 28 suppression was by 37% and 
57%, respectively. The corresponding values for the 2 mg dose were 59% and 31%. 
Study  MF 4218  was  a  single  centre,  open-label,  dose-finding  study  designed  to  investigate  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  5  different  oral  doses  of  ibandronate  (10 mg,  20 mg,  40 mg,  50 mg  and 
80 mg/day;  3-5  patients  per  group)  during  one  week’s  oral  treatment  in  23  normocalcemic  patients 
with  tumour-induced  osteolysis.  All  doses  with  the  exception  of  10 mg  ibandronate  demonstrated 
distinct  effects  in  terms  of  reducing  elevated  urinary  calcium  excretion,  although  a  high  degree  of 
intra-individual  variation  was  observed  within  the  treatment  groups.  No  obvious  differences  were 
identified between doses of ibandronate ranging from 20 mg to 80 mg daily for 7 days. 
Study  MF 4269  was  a  double  blind,  multicentre,  randomised,  multiple  dose  study  designed  to 
investigate the efficacy and safety of oral doses of ibandronate during a four-week treatment in female 
patients with  tumour-mediated  osteolysis  due  to  breast  cancer.  A  significant  dose  response  was 
observed on fasting calcium excretion (the primary endpoint) as well as on urinary deoxypyridinoline. 
No  dose  response  was  observed  in  urinary  hydroxyproline.  By  week  four,  the  median  decrease  in 
urinary  calcium  excretion  was  22.9%,  62.2%  and  61.9%  for  patients  treated  daily  with  10,  20  and 
50 mg ibandronate, respectively. Urinary calcium excretion returned to baseline levels after 3-4 weeks 
in  patients  who  had  received  orally  either  10 mg  or  20  mg  ibandronate  daily,  but  remained  below 
baseline values even after 8 weeks in patients who had received 50 mg daily. 
Study  MF 4346  was  a  double  blind,  randomised,  dose-finding  study  designed  to  investigate  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  four  different  oral  doses  of  ibandronate  (5 mg,  10 mg,  20 mg,  50 mg)  versus 
placebo  during  a  four-week  treatment  in  patients with  MBD  from  various  cancers.  The  primary 
endpoint was again a reduction in fasting urinary calcium/creatinine, an index of net bone resorption.  
The pivotal clinical programme comprised three double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled studies, 
all  in  women  with  recurrent  breast  cancer  and  skeletal  metastases  with  an  adequate  performance 
status, as judged by a WHO grade of 0, 1 or 2. Two studies (MF 4414 and 4434) examined the effects 
of  oral  daily  treatment  of  20 mg  and  50 mg  ibandronate  compared  with  placebo.  Both  were 
multicentre trials. Both studies recruited extensively from Russia and Europe, but one, MF 4434 also 
included  centres  from  the  United  States,  Australia,  South  Africa  and  New  Zealand.Study  MF4265 
compared the effects of 2 mg and 6 mg of the intravenous formulation administered every 3-4 weeks 
with placebo, for 96 weeks. 
requiring 
fractures,  3.Bone  complications 
The primary efficacy measurement for each study was an index of the combined skeletal morbidity, as 
judged  by  new  bone  complications.  These  comprised:  1.  Pathological  vertebral  fractures,  2. 
radiotherapy,  4.Bone 
Pathological  non-vertebral 
complications  requiring  surgery.  The  composite  primary  endpoint  was  to  determine  the  effect  of 
treatment  on  the  ‘skeletal  morbidity  period  rate’  (SMPR).  For  the  purposes  of  analysis,  the 
applicants have considered a 12-week interval as a period. The primary endpoint is the number of 12-
week periods with a new bone complication (PNBC) adjusted for observation time (i.e. the number of 
periods during which the patient was on study). In order to decrease the effect of early drop-outs in a 
study with a duration of 96 week the ratio is given as: PNBC + 0.5 / periods of observation + 1. The 
addition of the numerator and denominator constants differentiates patients who withdrew early with 
no  skeletal  event  from  those  who  withdrew  late  in  the  study  with  no  events.  This  approach  was 
considered  by  the  CPMP  in  Scientific  Advice  Letter  CPMP/1878/00  of  21  September  2000  to  be 
problematic because this is not an intuitive statistic to employ. The analysis and interpretation could 
become  quite  complex  unless  all  patients  provide  complete  data.  The  CPMP  recommended  that  the 
method  should  be  supported  by  appropriate  sensitivity  analyses.  The  advice  was  given  prior  to  the 
21/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unblinding  of  the  oral  phase  III  studies.  The  company  was  advised  to  follow  up  all  patients  in 
MF 4414 and MF 4434 who withdrew prematurely and to collect additional primary efficacy endpoint 
data  (fractures,  surgery,  radiotherapy  events)  and  safety  data  (serious  adverse  events).  This  post-
withdrawal follow-up (PWFU) data were captured between the date of withdrawal of the patient (prior 
to  week  92)  and  either  the  date  of  death  of  the  patient  or  the  date  of  the  last  scheduled  study  visit, 
whichever was earlier. Such data, if collected in an unbiased manner, would lead to a more balanced 
‘information time’ between the treatment groups and would represent a true ‘Intent to Treat’ situation 
for the study population. For the evaluation of the primary endpoint in studies MF 4414 and MF 4434, 
the  results  have  been  analysed  according  to  the  SMPR  procedure  including  the  PWFU  dataset. 
Sensitivity analyses excluding the PWFU dataset have also been performed and are presented. 
Secondary efficacy variables included: 1. Bone pain score 2. Analgesic consumption 3. Quality of life 
3. Survival 4. WHO performance status 5. Efficacy related adverse events 5. Urinary markers of bone 
turnover (pyridinoline and deoxypyridinoline). 
Results 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
In MF4265 a total of 251 patients (54% of all randomised patients) completed 60 weeks treatment and 
189 patients (40.5%) completed the entire 96 week treatment period. A total of 277 patients (59.4%) 
prematurely  withdrew  from  the  study  i.e.  prior  to  week  96  (visit  26).  The  percentage  of  patients 
completing  96  weeks  of  treatment  was  higher  in  the  2 mg  (47.4%)  and  6 mg  (42.9%)  ibandronate 
treatment  groups  compared  with  placebo  (31.6%).  Median  time  on  study  was  markedly  longer  for 
patients receiving 6 mg ibandronate (72.3 weeks) and 2 mg ibandronate (72.3 weeks) compared with 
those receiving placebo (52.3 weeks). The differences, although not statistically significant at the 5% 
level  indicated  a  greater  overall  time  of  exposure  to  treatment  for  the  patients  in  the  ibandronate 
groups.  
MF 4414  and  MF 4434  were  similar  in  design  with  the  same  patient  populations  recruited.  The 
primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  virtually  identical  as  were  the  objectives  of  each 
study: To investigate the efficacy and safety of oral ibandronate in the treatment of bone complications 
of MBD in breast cancer patients. Eight hundred and forty six patients were randomised to treatment 
with oral ibandronate (20 mg or 50 mg) or placebo. A total of 344 patients (40.7% of all randomised 
patients)  completed  the  studies  while  502 patients  (59.3%)  were  withdrawn  prematurely.  A  total  of 
172 patients (41.8 %) completed study MF 4414, while 239 patients (58.2 %) prematurely withdrew 
(i.e.  prior  to  week  96  (visit  26)).  The  percentage  of  patients  completing  the  study  was  higher  in  the 
20 mg (44.9  %) and  50 mg  (44.6  %) active treatment groups compared with  placebo (35.8  %). This 
demonstrates that MF 4414 was affected by unbalanced selective dropout, with a higher proportion of 
patient  dropouts  in  the  placebo  arm.  A  total  of  172  patients  (39.5  %  of    randomised  patients) 
completed study MF 4434, while 263 patients (60.5 %) prematurely withdrew prior to week 96 (visit 
26).  The  percentage  of  patients  completing  MF 4434  was  similar  in  the  placebo  (37.8  %),  20 mg 
ibandronate (38.2 %) and 50 mg ibandronate (42.6 %) treatment groups. 
Although  most  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  across  the  three  treatment 
groups, in study MF 4414 , the three groups do not appear to have been well balanced at baseline with 
respect to a number of important prognostic factors. In particular, patients in the two active treatment 
groups  may  have  had  more  advanced  and/or  more  aggressive  disease  than  the  placebo  group  at  the 
time  they  entered  the  study  (with  the  ibandronate  50 mg  group  having  the  greatest  difference  from 
placebo  in  some  key  parameters).  In  study  MF 4414,  a  greater  proportion  of  patients  in  the  active 
treatment groups had a WHO performance status of ‘2’, were currently receiving cytotoxic drugs, had 
pre-existing fractures and exhibited anaemia. These differences were generally more prominent in the 
50 mg dose group. 
22/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results  
The main results for the primary endpoints in the pivotal trials are shown in tables 1 and 2 below. 
Mean SMPR at Last Available Efficacy Date Per Patient Year (ITT Population) MF 4265  
All New Bone Events 
Vertebral Fractures 
Non Vertebral Fractures 
Bone Events Requiring 
Radiotherapy  
Placebo 
N=158 
2 mg Ibandronate
N=154 
6 mg Ibandronate 
N=154 
1.48 
0.82 
0.81 
1.09 
1.31 
p=0.1522 
0.70 
p=0.0282 
0.70 
p=0.2352 
0.95 
p=0.0622 
1.19 
p=0.0042 
0.71 
p=0.0232 
0.72 
p=0.3962 
0.91 
p=0.0112 
global 
p-value 
0.0041 
0.0231 
0.4211 
0.0121 
Bone Events Requiring 
Surgery 
1  global comparison between treatments using Jonckheere-Terpstra test 
2 pairwise comparisons versus placebo using Wilcoxon rank sum test. Unadjusted for multiplicity 
0.56 
p=0.0752 
0.50 
p=0.0132 
0.62 
0.0601 
Table 2 
Mean SMPR in MF 4434 and MF 4414  
MF 4434 
All New Bone Events 
Vertebral Fractures 
Non-Vertebral Fractures 
Events Requiring Radiotherapy 
Events Requiring Surgery 
MF 4414 
All New Bone Events 
Vertebral Fractures 
Non-Vertebral Fractures 
Events Requiring Radiotherapy 
Mean SMPR 
Placebo 
(N=143) 
20 mg Ibandronate 
(N=144) 
50 mg Ibandronate 
(N=148) 
p-value1 
1.20 
0.51 
0.52 
0.99 
0.44 
0.97 
p=0.0242 
0.52 
p=0.3152 
0.54 
p=0.5962 
0.81 
p=0.0822 
0.50 
p=0.7382 
0.98 
p=0.0372 
0.52 
p=0.7392 
0.54 
p=0.8902 
0.77 
p=0.0052 
0.43 
p=0.6442 
Placebo 
(N=134) 
20 mg Ibandronate 
(N=138) 
50 mg Ibandronate 
(N=139) 
1.10 
0.53 
0.51 
0.96 
0.95 
p=0.2002 
0.51 
0.47 
0.80 
1.00 
p=0.4422 
0.47 
0.49 
0.84 
0.044 
0.730 
0.887 
0.004 
0.643 
p-value1 
0.423 
- 
- 
- 
Events Requiring Surgery 
1 global comparison between treatments using Jonckheere-Terpstra  test 
2 p-value for active treatment versus placebo calculated using Wilcoxon Rank sum test 
N.B. Interpretation of statistical significance for pairwise comparisons is dependent on a global p-value; p ≤ 0.05. 
0.38 
0.41 
0.45 
- 
Compared  with  placebo,  both  doses  of  ibandronate  were  able  to  prevent  or  reduce  deterioration  in 
physical and role functions, but not emotional, cognitive or social functioning in the Quality of Life 
Evaluation.  The  global  assessment  of  function  was,  however,  statistically  significantly  improved  by 
50 mg ibandronate (p=0.030). (Details in Table 31 of the EU Written Summary). 
Mean bone pain scores from baseline to last assessment increased in the placebo group but decreased 
in  the  two  active  treatment  groups.  The  difference  was  statistically  significant  for  both  doses  of 
23/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ibandronate. This reduction in bone pain was not achieved through increased use of analgesics in the 
ibandronate  groups.  Whereas  the  mean  analgesic  score  increased  by  87%  in  the  placebo  group,  the 
score  increased  by  only  49%  in  the  20 mg  ibandronate  group  and  54%  in  the  50 mg  group.  These 
differences were also statistically significant.  
In the pooled dataset, the  WHO performance  status deteriorates (i.e. the score  increases) in all three 
treatment  groups.  However,  the  increase  in  WHO  score  in  the  two  ibandronate  dose  groups  is 
significantly less than that in the placebo group. 
Table 3 
Secondary Efficacy Results  
Bone pain * 
Analgesic use * 
Quality of Life * 
WHO performance score * 
Urinary CTx ** 
* Mean change from baseline to last assessment. 
** Median change from baseline to last assessment 
Placebo 
n=277 
0.20 
0.85 
-26.8 
0.54 
10.95 
Bondronat 50 mg 
n=287 
-0.10 
0.60 
-8.3 
0.33 
-77.32 
p-value 
p=0.001 
p=0.019 
p=0.032 
p=0.008 
p=0.001 
Both doses of ibandronate caused a marked reduction in the biochemical marker of bone destruction 
compared with the placebo group, where urinary CTx levels increased from baseline (up to week 72). 
A statistically significant reduction was seen between baseline and last assessment for both the 20 mg 
(p<0.001)  and  50 mg  (p<0.001)  treatment  groups.  As  in  the  phase  II  studies,  the  reductions  in  bone 
markers  with  50 mg  ibandronate  were  greater  than  those  with  20 mg  ibandronate  (p<0.001).  The 
reduction in urinary CTx was significantly correlated with the primary efficacy endpoint, SMPR. 
Exploratory analysis performed across trials. 
The three treatment groups in the oral phase III studies were not well balanced at baseline with respect 
to a number of important prognostic factors. These imbalances may have influenced the outcome of 
study MF4414. In order to determine more precisely which baseline factors had the most influence on 
the primary endpoint outcome, and to compensate for the difference between treatment groups, 
multivariate analyses were carried out for the primary efficacy variable in the oral studies. In addition 
for consistency, these exploratory analyses were performed on data from the i.v. phase III study and 
for the pooled MF 4414/MF 4434 dataset as well as for a pooled dataset from all phase III studies. 
Cox multivariate and Poisson multivariate analyses were performed to identify confounders and to set 
up adjusted models. The results of one important analysis is shown in table 4 below: 
Table 4. Poisson Regression Analyses: Number of New Bone Events (ITT Population) Risk vs Placebo 
Risk 
estimate 
lower 
95% CI 
upper 
95% CI 
p-value 
MF 4265* 
2 mg 
6 mg  
MF 4434** 
20 mg 
50 mg 
MF 4414** 
20 mg 
50 mg  
MF 4414/MF 4434 Pooled Dataset** 
20 mg 
50 mg 
MF 4414/ MF 4434/ MF 4265 Pooled Dataset*** 
2 mg i.v. 
6 mg i.v., 20 mg and 50 mg oral ibandronate 
24/29 
1.13 
0.60 
0.62 
0.61 
0.68 
0.61 
0.64 
0.62 
1.19 
0.62 
0.83 
0.43 
0.43 
0.43 
0.48 
0.43 
0.50 
0.48 
0.93 
0.51 
1.52 
0.85 
0.89 
0.86 
0.95 
0.86 
0.82 
0.79 
1.53 
0.74 
0.44 
0.0033 
0.009 
0.005 
0.026 
0.0044 
0.0004 
0.0001 
0.165 
<0.0001 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
Note: Offset variable is log of total number of events in study (ITT analysis); over dispersion corrected with Pearson scale. 
*Covariates  in  final  model:  bone  pain,  fracture  and  Russian  center;  for  periods:  bone  pain,  fracture,  at  least  one  lesion  >  1  cm,  and 
alkaline phosphatase. 
**Covariates in final model: bone pain, fracture, WHO, WHO grade 2, alkaline phosphatase, hepatic disease, analgesic consumption, at 
least one lesion>1cm and no previous chemotherapy.  
***Covariates in final model: oral study, bone pain, fracture, analgesic consumption, Russian center, WHO, and alkaline 
phosphatase. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  dose-finding  programme  is  problematic.  The  effects  on  bone  markers  might  not  translate  into 
clinical  efficacy  in  the  target  population.  It  is  desirable  that  dose-finding  studies  utilise  the  same 
clinical  endpoints  that  are  to  be  investigated  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  trials.  Secondly,  the  dataset  is 
limited both in terms of number of patients and as regards duration of exposure (1-4 weeks). This is 
probably the main reason for including two doses in both the i.v. phase III programme (2 and 6  mg 
ibandronate) and the oral phase III programme (20 and 50 mg ibandronate).  
As  the  20  mg  film-coated  tablet  is  no  longer  a  part  of  the  dosage  regimen  in  the  treatment  of  the 
metastatic bone-disease, the application for this strength was therefore withdrawn. 
The oral bioavailability of ibandronate is about 0.6%. There is a large inter-subject and intra-subject 
(CVs  for  AUC  and  Cmax  were  about  47-48%)  variability.  The  low  oral  bioavailability  of 
aminobisphosphonates is a class effect. A low oral bioavailability does not necessarily mean that the 
therapeutic  needed  systemically  drug  levels  cannot  be  obtained  by  an  oral  application.  It  should  be 
recalled that orally applied ibandronic acid has been successfully used, although with a smaller daily 
dose (2.5 mg/day), for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis (MF4411). These results would 
support the suggestion that an appropriate systemic exposure can be achieved with oral ibandronate. 
The evaluation of the efficacy of ibandronate in women with metastatic breast cancer was based on the 
primary  composite  endpoint  Skeletal  Morbidity  Periode  Rate  (SMPR)  comprising  the  4  components 
vertebral  fracture,  non-vertebral  fracture,  radiotherapy  to  bone  for  treatment  of  fractures/impending 
fractures and surgery to bone for treatment of fractures. This composite endpoint has been considered 
acceptable in a previous CPMP scientific advice (CPMP/1878/00 dated 21 September 2000). 
Effect size 
A  statistically  significantly  longer  median  time  from  randomisation  to  first  new  bone  complication 
was  observed  for  patients  in  the  6  mg  (50.6  weeks)  treatment  group  compared  with  placebo  (33.1 
weeks; p=0.018) in the i.v. study MF 4265. Analysis of the shifts in bone pain between baseline and 
last  assessment  indicated  that  a  higher  percentage  of  patients  receiving  6 mg  ibandronate  (~37%) 
recorded  an  improvement  in  bone  pain  compared  with  either  the  2 mg  (~27%)  or  placebo  (~23%) 
treatment  groups.  In  addition,  fewer  patients  in  the  6 mg  treatment  group  (~19%)  recorded  a 
worsening  of  their  bone  pain  compared  with  the  2 mg  (~40%)  or  placebo  (~37%)  groups.  The 
difference  between  the  6 mg  and  placebo  treatment  groups  was  statistically  significant  (p<0.001) 
indicating  that  ibandronate  (6 mg)  treatment  has  a  beneficial  effect  on  bone  pain.  In  MF 4434,  the 
median  time  from  randomisation  to  the  first  new  bone  event  was  numerically  longer  for  subjects  in 
both  the  20 mg  (76  weeks;  p=0.106)  and  50 mg  treatment  groups  (54  weeks;  p=0.297)  than  in  the 
placebo group (48 weeks). 
In study MF4265 the individual components, vertebral fracture and radiotherapy, and in the oral study 
MF4434,  only  the  component  radiotherapy  were  statistically  significant.  Reasons  for  the  non-
significant  effect  on  vertebral  fractures  in  the  oral  study  (such  as  strict  fracture  definition  criteria, 
absence  of  a  requirement  in  the  inclusion  criteria  of  lytic  bone  lesions  with  at  least  1  cm  diameter) 
resulting  probably  in  a  lower  fracture  incidence  of  the  placebo  group  are  plausible  and  acceptable. 
Furthermore, it can be agreed that the sample size in the groups may be to small to reach a statistically 
significance in the individual components, and that the demonstration of a significant effect in the pre-
defined  composite  primary  endpoint  in  this  severely  ill  patient  population  (for  which  the  study  was 
apparently powered) would sufficiently establish the efficacy of treatment.  
25/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
The SMPR per patient year in the i.v. study MF4265 was reduced by 19.6% (p=0.004) vs. placebo and 
in the oral study MF4434 by 18.1% (p=0.037) vs. placebo. The percentage of patients with at least one 
bone event was only statically significantly reduced in MF4434, when the 20 mg and 50 mg groups 
were pooled (p=0.036). The time to fist new bone event or the time from the first event to second bone 
events  in  oral  studies  MF  4434  or  MF4414  was  numerically  reduced,  but  did  not  reach  statistically 
significance. The relative risk of an event based on time to multiple events in MF4414 and MF4434 
was statistically significant. 
Efficacy  was  demonstrated  in  study  MF4434  at  both  the  20  and  50  mg  doses,  but  not  in  study 
MF4414.  The  apparent  lack  of  a  statistically  significant  treatment  effect  on  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint  suggested  the  presence  of  confounding  factors  within  study  4414,  which  may  have 
compromised  the  analysis.  As  mentioned  previously,  there  was  an  imbalance  in  the  baseline 
characteristics of the three treatment groups such as imbalance in prognostic factors, preferential drop-
out in the placebo group and a high proportion of ‘pre-scheduled’ radiotherapy in particular in Russian 
centers. A univariate analysis on the time to first new bone event was conducted. Factors identified in 
the univariate model that were possibly predictive of an effect were carried forward into pre-specified 
multivariate  analyses,  the  first  of  which  employed  the  method  of  Cox.  A  Poisson  regression  model 
based on the number of periods with events or on the number of events was also employed. 
This analysis resulted in a significant risk reduction of skeletal related events (SRE) in study MF4414 
of 39 % (p = 0.004) versus placebo similarly to the 39% risk reduction in SRE vs. placebo (p = 0.004) 
in the oral study MF4434. These values compare to a 40% risk reduction in the i.v.  study MF4265. 
The approach to demonstrate efficacy of the oral studies by using the Poisson regression analysis (in 
order to deal with the confounding factors in MF4414) as appropriate and acceptable.  
The drop out rate of 58-60% % in studies MF4434 and MF4414 is high, but such a high drop out rate 
is  to  be  expected  in  a  study  population  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  over  a  period  of  96  weeks 
(median survival time of about 2 years). Furthermore, the drop out rate is at least comparable to the 
drop out rate in the pamidronate study (66%-80%). 
Lack of active comparator  
The reason for the lack of a comparative study with an active comparator,  i.v. ibandronate vs. other 
bisphosphonates  was  the  lack  of  a  suitable  comparator  at  the  time  of  conducting  the  i.v.  study  MF 
4265 as  the study started 1994, whilst the approval of i.v. pamidronate and and i.v. zoledronic acid for 
the  treatment  of  women  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  occurred  later.  No  orally  applied 
aminobisphosphonate is currently approved for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer, 
which precludes a comparative study. 
The MAH performed a post hoc-comparison between ibandronate (6 mg i.v. at intervals of 4 weeks) 
and  pamidronate  (90  mg  i.v.  at  intervals  of  4  weeks)  regarding  the  effect  on  the  Skeletal  Morbidity 
Rate  (SMR;  number  of  events/year).  The  effect  size  was  a  33%  reduction  in  SMR  with  i.v. 
pamidronate  (including  hypercalcemia)  or  a  35%  reduction  (without  hypercalcemia)  vs.  a  39% 
reduction with i.v. ibandronate. The limitations of such an approach are obvious  because of several 
differences  between  studies,  e.g.  inclusion  criteria,  the  definition  of  skeletal  related  events  and 
individual  components  of  the  primary  endpoint  used  for  efficacy  analysis  (Ibandronate:  SMPR 
including  vertebral  fracture,  non-vertebral  fracture,  radiotherapy 
treatment  of 
fractures/impending fractures, surgery to bone for treatment of fractures; Pamidronate: SMR including 
pathological  fracture,  spinal  cord  compression/collapse,  radiation  to  bone  for  pain  relief/to  prevent 
spinal  cord  compression/to  prevent  pathological  fractures,  surgery 
to  prevent  spinal  cord 
compression/to prevent pathological fractures, hypercalcaemia). Due to the fact that these evaluations 
are exploratory post-hoc analyses it is difficult to make a direct comparison and the conclusions drawn 
should  be  treated  with  caution.  In  general,  despite  of  the  limitations  of  the  presented  comparative 
analysis, the effect size on all bone events/patient year appears to be similar with i.v. ibandronate and 
i.v.  pamidronate  in  women  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  treated  over  an  approximately  similar  time 
period.  The  above  post-hoc  analysis  can  not  replace  a  direct  comparative  study,  however,  a 
comparative study between i.v. ibandronate and another bisphosphonate is not considered necessary. 
to  bone  for 
26/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Adverse events, which were thought to be treatment related are somewhat different after oral (20 or 50 
mg/day) or intravenous ibandronate (2 or 6 mg every 4 weeks). Treatment related AE (remotely, 
possibly, or probably related) after oral application were upper gastro-intestinal symptoms (abdominal 
pain, dyspepsia, nausea, esophagitis, hopocalcemia). For the oral Phase III studies MF 4414 and MF 
4434 the following so-called treatment related AE were reported:  
Abdominal pain:     
Dyspepsia: 
Naussea: 
Esophagitis: 
Hypocalcemia:   
placebo: n=   2 (0.7%),  20 mg p.o.: n=  1 (0.4%);  50 mg p.o.: n= 6 (2.7%) 
placebo: n= 13 (4.7%),  20 mg p.o.: n=16 (5.7%);  50 mg p.o.: n=20 (7.0%) 
placebo: n=   4 (1.4%),  20 mg p.o.: n=  9 (3.2%);  50 mg p.o.: n=10 (3.5%) 
placebo: n=   2 (0.7%),  20 mg p.o.: n=  4 (1.4%);  50 mg p.o.: n=  6 (2.1%) 
placebo: n= 14 (5.1%),  20 mg p.o.: n=25 (5.9%);  50 mg p.o.: n=27 (9.4%) 
Treatment related AE (remotely, possibly, or probably related) after i.v. application were acute phase 
reaction/flu-like syndrome, diarrhea, myalgia, asthenia, headache, a transient increase in bone pain, 
transient proteinuria, hypocalcaemia. It is noted that esophagitis was not observed after i.v. application 
of ibandronate.  
In the phase II study MF 4328 fever within 72 h after ibandronate i.v. was observed in 8.8% (13/147 
patients); four of these 13 patients experienced fever as a single symptom and 9 of the these 13 
patients experienced also bone pain within this time frame (6 patients in the 6 mg ibandronate group 
and 3 patients in 4 mg ibandronate group). Thus fever plus bone pain experienced 24% (6/25 patients) 
and 25% (3/16 patients) in the 6 mg and 4 mg dose group, respectively. A transient exacerbation of 
bone pain within 72 h after administration of ibandronate i.v. experienced 8.4% (12/174) patients. 
For the Phase III study MF 4265 the following so-called treatment related AE were reported:  
Flu-like syndromes:    placebo: n= 2 (1.3%), 2 mg i.v.: n=8 (5.2%); 6 mg i.v.: n=8 (5.3%) 
Diarrhea: 
Myalgia: 
Headache:  
Hypocalcemia:           placebo: n= .. (3.1%), 2 mg i.v..: n=.. (5.9%); 6 mg i.v.: n=.. (7.9%) 
placebo: n= 1 (0.6%), 2 mg i.v.: n=7 (4.6%); 6 mg i.v.: n=8 (5.3%)  
placebo: n= 6 (3.8%), 2 mg i.v.: n=5 (3.3%); 6 mg i.v.: n=8 (5.3%) 
            placebo: n= 4 (2.5%), 2 mg i.v.: n=4 (2.6%);  6 mg i.v.: n=9 (5.9%) 
Esophagitis, which was higher in the oral studies, was also reported as a serious adverse event in 3 
patients given 20 mg ibandronate orally and in 1 patient given placebo.  
The deaths observed in the oral studies [MF 4414, 4434] were higher in the 20  mg (17%) and 50 mg 
(19.9 %) ibandronate groups compared to placebo (15.2%).  No deaths were considered as due to the 
study medication. There were fewer deaths in the i.v. study [MF 4265] in patients treated with 2 mg 
(7.2%) and 6 mg (5.3 %) ibandronate compared to placebo (9.6%). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Withdrawals  in  the  oral  studies  were  mainly  due  to  progression  of  the  underlying  disease.  Notable 
reasons for withdrawals due to AE or serious AE in the oral studies were esophagitis (1 patients at 20 
and 4 patients at 50 mg ibandronate, none in the placebo group), bone pain (5 and 7 patients at 20 and 
50  mg  ibandronate  vs.  5  patients  on  placebo).  The  slight  hypocalcaemia  did  not  lead  to  any 
withdrawals.  Withdrawals  in  the  i.v.  study  were  mainly  due  to  progression  of  the  under  of  the 
underlying disease and refusal of treatment .  
Laboratory findings 
Changes in laboratory parameters included hypocalcaemia (oral and intravenous studies) and anemia 
(14%,  16%  and  21%  for  placebo,  20  and  50  mg  ibandronate,  respectively).  Anemia  was  judged  as 
drug related.   
Discussion on Clinical safety 
The majority of study patients experienced at least one adverse event during the course of the study. 
This  was  to  be  expected  in  a  population  with  advanced  metastatic  malignant  disease.  Overall,  there 
27/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  no  obvious  differences  in  the  frequency  or  type  of  adverse  event  between  the  different  dose 
groups, the safety profile of both treatment arms being, in general, similar to placebo. In addition the 
number of patients experiencing serious adverse events or adverse events leading to withdrawal was 
similar in all treatment groups. There was a slightly higher incidence of drug-related adverse events, 
driven  mainly  by  hypocalcaemia,  which  is  an  adverse  event  frequently  encountered  with 
bisphosphonate therapy. 
In the i.v. study 4265, a slightly higher percentage of patients in the active treatment groups compared 
with  placebo  recorded  adverse  events  considered  related  to  study  treatment  by  the  investigator.  The 
most  common  treatment-related  adverse  events  recorded  during  the  study  were  asthenia,  fever,  flu 
syndrome, bone pain (more placebo patients), headache, nausea and diarrhoea being reported by up to 
6.6%  of  patients  in  any  one  treatment  group.  The  number  of  patients  withdrawn  as  a  result  of  an 
adverse event considered related to study treatment by the investigator was 2, 1 and 3 in the placebo, 
2 mg  ibandronate  and  6 mg  ibandronate  treatment  groups,  respectively.  Most  of  the  related  adverse 
events  leading  to  withdrawal  were  in  the  digestive  system  (3 patients).  Five  patients  in  each  of  the 
2 mg and 6 mg active treatment groups and 2 patients in the placebo group recorded vomiting which 
was considered related to treatment by the investigator. Diarrhoea was considered related to treatment 
in  1  placebo  patient  (0.6%),  7  patients  (4.6%)  receiving  2 mg  ibandronate  and  8 patients  (5.3%) 
receiving 6 mg ibandronate. 
In the oral studies, there was a higher incidence of adverse events considered related to treatment by 
the investigator in the active treatment groups. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in the 
number of related hypocalcaemic episodes and reports of dyspepsia and nausea among patients in the 
active treatment groups. None of these related events was classed as serious with the exception of  1 
report of nausea recorded by a single subject in the 50 mg treatment group. Esophagitis was reported 
in a few cases. 
The  number  of  patients  with  renal  adverse  events  was  similar  in  the  three  treatment  groups.  There 
were  more  cases  of  renal  failure  in  the  two  active  treatment  groups  (20 mg;  6  patients,  50 mg;  5 
patients) than in the placebo group (3 cases). However, there were more reports of increased creatinine 
in  the  placebo  group  (6  patients)  than  either  the  20 mg  (2  patients)  or  50 mg  (4  patients)  treatment 
groups  and  so  the  overall  number  of  events  indicative  of  impaired  renal  function  was  similar  in  all 
three groups (8, 9 and 9 individuals, respectively, in the three arms who were reported to have either 
increased creatinine or kidney failure). 
3. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided proof of concept for the proposed indication, 
but were too limited to guide the selection of human dose levels. From the pharmacokinetic point of 
view, the programme performed was satisfactory. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  is  considered  satisfactory  in  the  context  of  the  symptomatic 
treatment of metastatic bone disease due to breast cancer, that is, in severely ill cancer patients with a 
poor prognosis. Local tolerance studies have revealed that the tablets may cause irritation or burns to 
the oesophagus and gastric mucosa. This information has been included in the SPC.  
Efficacy 
Efficacy  was  demonstrated  in  terms  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  an  index  of  the  combined 
skeletal  morbidity,  (pathological  vertebral  fractures,  pathological  non-vertebral  fractures,  bone 
complications requiring radiotherapy, bone complications requiring surgery).  
Although in study MF4414, there was no statistically significant treatment effect a significant risk 
reduction of skeletal related events of 39 % vs placebo was shown. The lack of an active comparator 
has been justified. 
28/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
It  appears  that  ibandronate  has  an  acceptable  clinical  safety  profile.  Clinical  trial  data  and  post-
marketing surveillance have not shown any evidence of deterioration in renal function with long term 
Bondronat therapy.  Nevertheless, according to clinical assessment of theindividual patient and cancer 
progression  effects  on  organ  function,  it  is  recommended  that  renal  function,  serum  calcium, 
phosphate and magnesium should be monitored in patients treated with Bondronat. A dose adjustment 
in patients with severe renal impairment (CLCR <30 ml/min) has been included in the SPC.  
The SPC was revised to include additional AEs and also regarding the incidence of AEs. The revision 
of SPC section 4.8 was done in line with the SPC guideline. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
On the basis of the above, the benefit/ risk for the extension of the indication to include prevention of 
skeletal  events  (pathological  fractures,  bone  complications  requiring  radiotherapy  or  surgery)  in 
patients with breast cancer and bone metastases is favourable. 
Therefore,  the  50  mg  film-coated  tablet  is  recommended  for  approval  together  with  concentrate  for 
solution for infusion 6mg/ ml (II/25) since these are justified by this new indication. 
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Bondronat in the prevention of skeletal events (pathological 
fractures,  bone  complications  requiring  radiotherapy  or  surgery)  in  patients  with  breast  cancer  and 
bone metastases, was favourable. 
29/29 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
