European Medicines Agency  
EMEA/104761/2007 
Bonviva  
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Ibandronic acid 
Following the procedure 
EMEA/H/C/501/X/03 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction and rationale  
The  applicant  Roche  Registration  Limited  submitted  on  28  April  2005  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Bonviva 3mg/3ml solution for injection as a 
3-monthly  dosing  regimen  of  ibandronate  only  for  the  indication  of  “treatment  of  osteoporosis  in 
postmenopausal women, in order to reduce the risk of vertebral fractures” under Annex II, point 2 iii, iv, v 
to Commission Regulation (EC) No  1085/2003. 
The  rationale  for  this  being  the  inconvenience  associated  with  dosing  of  oral  bisphosphonates  since, 
particularly  for  patients  with  existing  GI  tract  disease  or  intolerance  to  oral  bisphosphonates,  it  could  be 
convenient to administer drug parenterally. 
Osteoporosis  as  a  consequence  of  the  menopause  is  characterized  by  decreased  bone  mass  and  strength 
resulting  from  a  compromise  of  bone  density  and/or  bone  architecture,  leading  to  increased  fragility  and 
fracture risk. The morphologic characteristics of this process are a reduction in the number of trabeculae, 
thinning  of  the  trabeculae  and  loss  of  trabecular  connectivity.  The  main  reason  for  this  process  is  the 
oestrogen  deficiency  after  menopause,  which  in  all  mammals  increases  bone  turnover  and  results  in  an 
imbalance  between  bone  resorption  and  bone  formation.  An  imbalance  favouring  bone  resorption  over 
formation  leads  to  a  decrease  in  bone  mass  and  microarchitecture  (connectivity)  of  bone  tissue  thereby 
reducing bone strength, which will consequently increase the risk of fracture. 
Vertebral fractures are the most common osteoporotic fractures and are associated with increased morbidity 
and  deterioration  of  the  quality  of  life  of  the  patients.  Many  vertebral  fractures  are  occult  and 
asymptomatic, however they are associated with an increased mortality. Hip fractures, which usually occur 
in older women, are associated with a high mortality and long-term disability. The mortality rate is 20% 
higher on average within 1 year of hip fracture.  
The ultimate goal of pharmacological treatment of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis is to reduce 
the  risk  of  fractures  by  increasing  the  bone  mass  of  normal  quality.  There  are  several  agents  currently 
available  for  the  treatment  and/or  prevention  of  post-menopausal  osteoporosis  including  calcitonin, 
bisphosphonates,  17-beta-estradiol,  selective  oestrogen-receptor  modulators,  PTH,  strontium  ranelate  and 
fluoride. 
Bisphosphonates are an important class of drugs used as inhibitors of bone resorption in the treatment of 
bone diseases. Several bisphosphonates are established as effective treatments in clinical disorders such as 
Paget’s  disease  of  bone,  myeloma,  and  bone  metastases.  Up  to  now  alendronate,  risedronate  and 
ibandronate have become established as effective agents for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. 
Their  basis  for  approval  has  been  the  demonstration  of  anti-fracture  efficacy  over  a  3-4  years  treatment 
period. Anti-fracture efficacy of alendronate and risedronate has been shown for vertebral and hip fractures 
and that of ibandronate only for vertebral fractures.  
In  February  2004,  the  European  Commission  approved  a  2.5  mg  daily  oral  tablet  formulation  of 
ibandronate for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, and in September 2005 the 
150 mg once monthly oral tablet only for indication of the treatment of the osteoporosis.  
1.2  The development programme 
This submission is primarily based on a single pivotal, Phase 3, non-inferiority trial comparing the efficacy 
and safety of intermittent i.v. ibandronate to that of daily oral ibandronate given at the approved dose of 2.5 
mg (BM16550 – DIVA study).   
No  new  pre-clinical  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  in  addition  to 
those  included  in  the  previous  submission  for  ibandronate  2.5  mg  film-coated  tablets  and  150  mg  film-
coated tablets. The Applicant’s argument for not performing additional pharmacological studies in animals 
was,  that  in  the  previously  performed  studies  in  oestrogen  depleted  animal  models  the  intermittent 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment was equally effective when compared to daily treatment provided the total cumulative dose was 
the same.   
In support of the clinical efficacy and safety of the 3-monthly i.v. regimen a single pivotal study in 1395 
women with postmenopausal osteoporosis was performed, with the change of lumbar BMD from baseline 
as the primary efficacy endpoint (BM165501, DIVA Study). An efficacy analysis is available from the 
required two years of treatment. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Composition 
Bonviva  is  presented  as  3  mg  /  3  ml  Solution  for  Injection  in  a  pre-filled  syringe  (PFS)  containing 
ibandronic acid as the active substance. 
Other ingredients include Sodium Chloride, Glacial Acetic Acid, Sodium Acetate and Water for injections. 
The syringe is made of colourless glass (type I), closed with a plunger stopper, which serves as piston, and 
sealed with a tip cap, both made from fluoro-resin laminated butyl rubber. The product contact materials 
are the plunger stopper, glass barrel and tip cap. These primary packaging components, along with the drug 
product solution, are terminally sterilised. 
The  plunger  rod  is  made  of  food-grade  plastic  and  is  not  in  contact  with  the  injection  solution.  The 
commercial package contains the pre-filled syringe(s), with injection needle(s). 
Active Substance 
The active ingredient has recently been assessed within the procedure EMEA/H/C/501 concerning Bonviva 
2.5  mg  film-coated  tablets.  It  can  best  be  described  as  monohydrate  with  a  theoretical  water  content  of 
5.01%.  It  is  freely  soluble  in  water  and  practically  insoluble  in  organic  solvents.  The  information  on  the 
drug substance presented earlier is considered acceptable. 
Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
In  general  the  pharmaceutical  development  is  in  accordance  with  the  EU  guidelines  on  Pharmaceutical 
development and is adequately described.  
The  aim  of  the  development  studies  was  to  produce  a  stable  i.v.  formulation  by  a  terminal  sterilisation 
process. Parenteral formulations providing the same concentration on a mg/ml basis have been approved in 
the EU under the trade name Bondronat respectively (1 mg / 1 ml, 2 mg / 2 ml and 6 mg / 6 ml). They are 
manufactured by virtually the same method and are packed in vials, which have the same glass quality as 
the  syringes.  Therefore,  most  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  data  are  derived  from  these  previous 
applications. 
Different  pH  values  were  tested  for  stability  and  the  one  that  demonstrated  to  assure  a  more  stable 
formulation regarding pH shift and degradation during the sterilisation process and during stability studies 
was  retained.  Particle  size  distribution  and  polymorphism  (both  polymorphic  forms  provide  comparable 
solubility) are not relevant for the preparation of injection solutions. The stability studies have proven that 
the active ingredient is a very stable compound.  
Acetic acid and sodium acetate trihydrate are used as buffer system to maintain the pH at the desired levels 
and sodium chloride is added to obtain an isotonic solution. All excipients are of Eur Ph quality. 
1  Sherry  CL,  Kinberg  J,  Ward  P.  Randomized,  double-blind,  parallel  groups,  multicenter  study  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  two  IV 
ibandronate dose regimens (2 m q 2 months and 3 mg q 3 mo) with 2.5 mg daily oral ibandronate in postmenopausal osteoporosis: Year 1 Results 
(BM16550-DIVA). Research Report 1016092. November 5, 2004. 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Manufacture of the Product   
The manufacturing process involves conventional operations such as dissolving the active ingredient and 
excipients in water for injections, filtering and filling into the syringes. Tip caps and plunger stoppers are 
placed automatically and the syringes are terminally sterilised. 
All critical process parameters have been identified and are controlled by appropriate in process controls. 
The manufacturing process has been validated in accordance with the CHMP guidelines on Manufacture of 
the finished dosage form and Process validation. 
Product Specification 
The  following  specifications  are  set:  identity  testing,  Assay  (HPLC),  Purity  (TLC).  All  other  tests 
(appearance,  clarity,  color,  pH,  particulate  matter,  extractable  volume,  bacterial  endotoxins  and  sterility) 
are  performed  according  to  Ph.  Eur.  The  description  and  validation  of  the  analytical  methods  are 
acceptable.  
Stability of the Product 
In  general  the  formulation  is  very  stable.  Studies  have  been  carried  out  according  to  relevant  EU/ICH 
stability guidelines. As packaging material during stability studies pre-filled syringes are used (as applied). 
Three  production  batches  have  been  stored  for  up  to  12  months  at  ICH  conditions.  No  changes  are 
observed in the investigated parameters. Supportive studies have been performed on seven batches for up to 
5  years.  As  the  data  indicates  the  medicinal  product  is  very  stable  an  extrapolation  of  the  shelf-life  to  2 
years  with  no  specific  storage  conditions  is  acceptable.  Photostability  studies  revealed  that  the medicinal 
product is not sensitive to light. 
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  show  satisfactory  stability. 
These results support the shelf life of 2 years without any specific precautions for storage. The proposed 
shelf-life and storage conditions are reflected in the proposed SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
This is a simple i.v. formulation of a soluble substance in a pre-filled syringe. The active substance is very 
stable  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  excipients  are  commonly  used  and  comply  with  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements.  The  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished 
product  is  a  well-validated  process  that  has  been  adequately  described.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the 
product under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
Non-clinical aspects 
No  new  non-clinical  data  has  been  submitted  for  this  application.  Summary  and  overview  of  the  studies 
previously  submitted  in  the  applications  for  2.5  and  150  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  provided  in  the 
application.  
Pharmacology  
The  previously  submitted  non-clinical  primary  pharmacology  data  (with  daily  and  intermittently  applied 
ibandronate)  demonstrated  that  the  intermittently  and  daily  administered  ibandronate  were  similarly 
effective in the treatment studies in the OVX rats and OHX dogs, if the total (cumulative) applied dose of 
ibandronate  was  about  the  same.  These  data  suggest  that  the  total  (cumulative)  dose  of  ibandronate 
administered is more important for efficacy than the treatment schedule itself.  
The duration of action of intermittently applied ibandronate appears to depend on the combination of dose, 
dosing  frequency  and  underlying  bone  turnover  rate,  but  it  is  currently  not  known  whether  the  dosing 
interval depends on the bone remodeling time or on the real drug exposure.  
The safety pharmacology program previously submitted supports an intermittent dosing regimen, since a 3-
monthly dosing regimen is regarded as being a single dose rather than repeated doses.  
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies, performed in the rat, dog and monkey, have been submitted in the MAA for the 2.5 
mg  film-coated  tablets.  The  non-clinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  ibandronate  showed  the  known 
characteristics  of  aminobisphosphonates:  A  very  low  absorption  rate  from  the  GI  tract,  a  high  affinity  to 
bone (approximately 40-50% of the dose is found in bone with half-life’s of 300-500 days, and <3% in all 
non-calcified  tissues),  no  biotransformation  of  the  drug  and  a  predominantly  renal  excretion  of  the 
unmetabolised drug. 
It  was  shown  in  OVX  rats  that  the  concentration  of  ibandronate  in  vertebrae  (L1)  and  tibia  was  dose-
dependent  and  linear.  Importantly,  subcutaneous  ibandronate  dosing  once  daily  or  cyclical  intermittent 
every 25 days resulted in similar concentrations of ibandronate in vertebrae and tibia, if the applied total 
(cumulative) dose was about the same. These findings provide the basis for the similar primary pharmaco-
dynamic effects observed with daily or intermittently applied ibandronate in rats.  
Toxicology 
The  previously  submitted  toxicology  program  characterized  extensively  the  toxicity  of  ibandronate  and 
supported the daily administration of 2.5 mg ibandronic acid for the treatment of postmenopausal women.  
In support of the monthly oral regimen with 150 mg ibandronic acid for the treatment of postmenopausal 
osteoporosis  three  new  single  dose  toxicity  studies  and  two  new  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  (with 
ibandronate administered by the intravenous route) were submitted.  
Nephrotoxicity at daily i.v. administration of ibandronate 
The 2-week rat i.v. toxicity study with a daily i.v. administration of 1 or 3 mg/kg ibandronate showed the 
known  toxicology  profile  of  ibandronate  as  well  as  the  pharmacological  effects  of  ibandronate.  It 
confirmed  that  the  kidney  is  the  primary  and  the  liver  the  secondary  target  of  ibandronate  toxicity.    The 
severity  of  renal  damage  (serum  creatinine  and  urea,  urinalysis,  creatinine  clearance,  histopathological 
changes, such as tubular basophilia, tubular dilatation and cast formation, and acute tubular necrosis) was 
dependent  on  both  the  dose  and  the  peak  plasma  concentration  of  ibandronate.  The  severity  of  findings 
which are directly related to the kidney damage (serum creatinine and urea, urinary ratios, histopathological 
findings)  were  influenced  by  the  speed  of  intravenous  administration.  This  was  also  true  for  the  liver 
enzymes  and  the  secondary  effects  on  body  weight  and  food  consumption.  In  contrast,  peak  plasma 
concentration has no impact on the severity of findings that are related to the pharmacological activity of 
ibandronate. 
The  nephrotoxicity  observed  in  the  2-week  rat  i.v.  toxicity  study  (1-3  mg/kg/day  ibandronate  i.v.)  is  in 
agreement with the previous 4 week rat toxicity study, where the highest dose of ibandronate (1 mg/kg/day 
i.v.) caused a moderate renal tubulonephrosis with proteinuria and a decrease in serum albumin, and with 
the previous 4 week toxicity study in dogs, where ibandronate at 0.3 and 0.9 mg/kg/day increased kidney 
weights and caused a dose dependent focal tubulonephrosis and necroses. 
Nephrotoxicity at intermittent i.v. administration of ibandronate (single and repeat-dose i.v. application).  
NOELs  or  NOAELs  in  the  single  dose  studies  and  the  6-month  intermittent  repeat-dose  study  were  not 
determined.  The  aim  was  to  determine  the  minimum  nephrotoxic  dose/effect  in  rats,  particularly  after 
repeated dosing. 1mg/kg ibandronate i.v. was found to be the lowest observed effect level (LOEL) in rats 
inducing  nephrotoxicity,  which  was  subclinical  in  severity.  Histopathological  examination  revealed  a 
degeneration/necrosis  of  proximal  convoluted  tubular  (PCT)  epithelial  cells,  which  occurred  at  similar 
incidence and severity in rats treated once or repeatedly. These effects were not related to the ibandronate 
plasma  concentrations.  ‘Subclinical’  was  defined  as  nephrotoxic  histopathological  changes  without  any 
corresponding findings in haematology, clinical biochemistry or urine analysis parameters.  
Hypertrophy/hyperplasia  of  distal  tubules  and collecting ducts were only observed after repeat-dose with 
ibandronate, but not after a single dose.  
The nephrotoxicity of the new 6-month rat i.v. toxicity study in rats with 3-weekly intermittently applied 
ibandronate  was  similar  as  in  the  previously  performed  6-month  i.v.  toxicity  study  in  rats    with  weekly 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applied  ibandronate  (ibandronate  at  0.9  mg/kg/wk  caused  increased  kidney  weights  and  a  dose-related 
epithelial hypertrophy/hyperplasia) and in the second 6-month i.v. toxicity study in rats with twice monthly 
applied ibandronate (0.3 mg/kg/every 2 weeks iv.) or (0.15  mg/kg/week i.v.); both studies caused no renal 
toxicity, but NOAELs mainly due to pharmacological effects in both studies were not determined. In the 6-
month  study  in  dogs  with  weekly  applied  ibandronate  i.v.  (up  to  2.7  mg/kg/week  i.v.)  the  highest  dose 
caused a mild to severe dose-related kidney damage, associated with a mild to severe increase in BUN.  
Safety margins  
The exposure in animal studies with twice monthly intermittent i.v. treatment over 6 month in the rat and 
dog  was  used  for  the  comparison  with  the  exposure  in  humans.  The  animal  dose  of  reference  was  0.3 
mg/kg which represents the renal NOAEL for twice monthly intermittent i.v. treatment.  
Cmax  and  AUC  of human exposure at 3 mg ibandronic acid i.v. are interpolated values (Cmax: 582 ng/ml; 
AUC: 808.5 ng.h/ml) and compared to exposure data in rats (Cmax: 1113 ng/ml, AUC: 1069 ng/h/ml, 0.3 
mg/kg/i.v.  2-monthly)  and  dogs  (Cmax:  1187  ng/ml,  AUC:  1352  ng/h/ml,  0.3  mg/kg/i.v.  2-monthly).  The 
safety margins of 1.3 (AUC) and 1.9 (Cmax) in rats and 1.7 (AUC) and 2.0 (Cmax) in dogs are small.  
Safety margins calculated with the renal LOEL in rats (1 mg/kg/3 wk; 6-month) revealed an about 3-fold 
greater safety margin of 4.1 (AUC = 3406 ng.h/ml) than calculated using the renal NOAEL in the twice -
monthly intermittent study.  
Liver toxicity at intermittent ibandronate administration 
In  contrast  to  the  daily  i.v.  ibandronate  administration  of  1and  3  mg/kg/day  for  2  weeks  no  increases  in 
liver enzymes were observed, when ibandronate was given 3-weekly at 1 or 3 mg/kg over 6 months. This 
observation  agrees  with  the  results  of  the  pivotal  clinical  study  BM16549.  These  findings  are  also  in 
agreement with previous findings in rats and dogs.  
Rat: In the 4-weeks rat i.v. study ibandronate administered daily had no effect on the liver in doses up to 
0.9 mg/kg/day and both 6-months studies with intermittently administered ibandronate showed no effects 
on liver enzymes and histopathology (except increased hematopoiesis).  
Dog: In the 4-week dog i.v. study 0.3 and 1 mg/kg/day increased liver enzymes (ASAT, ALAT; females) 
and liver weights; 1 mg/kg/day caused in two animals severe disseminated fatty liver degeneration, icterus, 
centrilubular necrosis (F) and focal liver cell necrosis (M).  
In  the  6-month  dog  study  with  weekly  i.v.  applied  ibandronate,  the  highest  dose  of  2.7  mg/kg/week  i.v. 
caused only sporadically and  transient increases in ASAT (1 male) or ALAT (one female).  
Gastrointestinal tract tolerance at intermittent ibandronate administration 
The  potential  for  an  increased  risk  of  gastrointestinal  tract  intolerance  was  not  further  evaluated  in  non-
clinical studies since - as stated by the Applicant - it was closely monitored in clinical trails. This reasoning 
is  not  acceptable.  However,  previous  oral  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  with  daily  oral  doses,  exceeding  the 
intended monthly human dose, are available. Gastrointestinal changes in rats and dogs were only observed 
in the toxic lethal dose range.   
Rat: In the rat, ibandronate at doses up to 10 mg/kg/day p.o. given for 12 months was well tolerated. In the 
6-month  p.o.  study  in  rats  with  restricted  feeding  the  animals  of  the  high  lethal  toxic  dose  range  (34.3 
mg/kg/day) showed macroscopically an irregular surface of the stomach and haemorrhage of the stomach, 
and microscopically a hydropic degeneration and inflammatory infiltration in the stomach muscular wall.   
Dog: In the dog, oral doses up to 9 mg/kg/day over 4 weeks and 5 mg/kg/day up to 12 months had no effect 
on  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  In  the  6-month  dog  study  the  toxic  high  dose  (13  mg/kg/day)  caused  an 
ulcerative esophagitis. Doses in the toxic-lethal range for dogs induced irritation of the gastrointestinal tract 
(13 mg/kg/day in a 6-month study; 10 mg/kg/day in a 12-month study). 
Discussion Non-clinical aspects 
The  available  non-clinical  pharmacology  data  with  daily  or  intermittently  administered  ibandronate 
(previously submitted in support of the MAA for ibandronate 2.5 mg film-coated tablets and 150 mg film-
coated tablets) also support the intended intravenous intermittent dosing in the treatment of postmenopausal 
osteoporosis with 3 mg ibandronic acid i.v. every three months. 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  new  non-clinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  regarding  absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism and excretion in addition to those included in previous submissions. 
It is agreed that new non-clinical pharmacokinetic studies are not required.  
A comparison of subcutaneous (s.c.) versus i.v. administration resulted in similar bioavailability and mean 
concentrations  of  ibandronate  in  bone.  It  is  agreed  that  the  s.c.  route  is  an  appropriate  surrogate  for 
intravenous dosing when assessing the pharmacodynamic effects of ibandronate. 
Toxicity  with  the  intermittently  applied  ibandronate  depends  on  the  dose  and  duration  of  dose-free 
intervals, similarly as described for the primary pharmacodynamic effects.  
The  evaluation  of  toxicity  of  ibandronate  in  toxicity  studies  supporting  the  3-monthly  administration  of 
ibandronate  in  humans  has  been  restricted  to  the  evaluation  of  nephrotoxicity  (the  primary  target  of 
ibandronate  toxicity  or  toxicity  of  other  nitrogen  containing  bisphosphonates).  The  previous  assumption 
that safety margins can be evaluated by a primary assessment of renal safety, which is apparently supported 
from the available toxicity data, has been already accepted for the MAA of the 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
and 150 mg film-coated tablets.  
Safety margins from animal/human exposure data regarding nephrotoxicity ranged from 1.3 to 1.7, but they 
are most probably underestimated since the animal renal NOAEL of 0.3 mg/kg is based on a 2-week dosing 
interval while humans are dosed at 3-monthly interval, equivalent to a single dose regimen. Regarding liver 
toxicity  there  were  no  observable  toxic  effects  on  the  liver  with  1  or  3  mg/kg  applied  3  weekly  over  6 
months.  Gastrointestinal  tract  toxicity  in  rats  and  dogs  with  orally  applied  daily  ibandronate  was  only 
observed in the toxic lethal dose range.   
It  is  agreed  with  the  Applicant,  that  other  safety  aspects  (including  potential  of  genotoxicity, 
carcinogenicity, local tolerance, skin irritation and sensitization, the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation 
and  all  pharmacodynamic  related  effects)  are  considered  to  remain  unaffected  by  the  change  of  the 
treatment regimen from daily to 3-monthly intervals. New reproduction and developmental toxicity studies 
were  not  performed,  which  is  no  major  issue  since  ibandronate  is  exclusively applied to postmenopausal 
women.   
It  is  agreed  with  the  Applicant  that  based  upon  the  non-clinical  safety  studies  performed,  the  risk  of 
relevant toxic effects in humans can be considered to be low under the proposed conditions of clinical use. 
A  new  ecotoxicity/environmental  risk  assessment  was  carried  out  according  to  OECD  guidelines.  It  was 
concluded that no exposure levels of concern to the environment are to be expected. 
Toxicology studies with an i.v. formulation of ibandronate were a part of both the 2.5 and 150 mg film-
coated  tablet  applications  both  as  single-dose  and  repeat-dose  studies.  The  results  support  the  dosing 
regimen applied in this submission. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical Pharmacology 
No new clinical pharmacology studies have been performed to support this application. A comprehensive 
PK/PD  evaluation  of  ibandronate  has  already  been  performed  as  part  of  the  MAA  for  Bonviva  2.5  mg 
tablets as well as 150 mg once monthly. Furthermore, the MAA for Bonviva 2.5 mg tablets also contained 
data  generated  from  studies  performed  on  the  intravenous  formulation,  although  approval  of  the 
intravenous  formulation  and  intravenous  dosing  regimen  was  not  sought  at  that  time.  In  addition, 
information from a phase II safety and efficacy study of intravenously administered ibandronate in breast 
cancer  patients  with  metastatic  bone  disease,  previously  not  included  in  applications  to  support  the 
postmenopausal osteoporosis indication, is included in this MAA. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Generally,  the  studies  show  linear  dose  proportionality.  As  the  pharmacokinetics  of  intravenous 
ibandronate is linear over the dose range 0.125 mg - 6.0 mg the exposure following an intermediate dose of 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 mg every 3 month was estimated by interpolation. Extrapolation of exposure data (Cmax and AUC) was 
performed from study MF 9853 after a 2 mg injection (30 seconds) to Japanese osteopenic postmenopausal 
women.  The  age  of  the  study  population  were  similar  to  that  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  clinical  study  BM 
16550.  
The  predicted  peak  plasma  concentrations  and  area  under  the  curve  in  women  with  postmenopausal 
osteoporosis after administration of a 3 mg injection (30 seconds) of ibandronate are 582 ± 108 ng/ml and 
808.5 ± 143 h•ng/ml respectively. 
The  decline  of  serum  ibandronate  concentrations  is  multi-exponential;  the  terminal  half-lives  showed  a 
considerable variation. 
Total clearance is low and between 89 to 138 ml/min after a single i.v. injection; the renal clearance after a 
single  i.v.  injection  was  64%  to  74%  of  the  total  clearance.  As  renal clearance of ibandronate is directly 
correlated with creatinine clearance and thus inversely correlated with age, and renal clearance accounts for 
a substantial component of total clearance then it follows that diminishing renal function largely explains 
age as a covariate for total clearance.  
•  Distribution 
Ibandronate  was  about  87%  (range  84-93%)  protein  bound  (determined  in  vitro  by  ultrafiltration  at  5 
ng/ml) and about 85% (range 83-87%) protein bound (determined by equilibrium dialysis at 1000 ng/ml). 
Systemically available ibandronate (after i.v., s.c. or oral application) is cleared mainly by uptake into bone 
and  excretion  via  the  renal  route.  After  i.v.  injection  of  single  doses  of  ibandronate  (≤  1  mg)  in  male 
volunteers  and  female  postmenopausal  volunteers  the  renal  clearance  was  60%  to  74%  of  the  total 
clearance. On the other hand after i.v. infusion of 2-6 mg ibandronate the percentage of renal clearance was 
up to 55% of the total clearance. About 40-50% of the orally absorbed ibandronate is distributed into bones 
and the reminder is eliminated unchanged by the kidney.  
Elimination 
• 
Preclinical studies in rats and dogs, studies with human liver preparations, and a mass balance study using 
radiolabeled  oral  and  intravenous  doses  of  ibandronate  in  human  subjects  have  demonstrated  that 
ibandronate is not metabolised, as also shown in rats and dogs, and is eliminated as unchanged drug in the 
urine. The plasma profiles of ibandronate are multiphasic and terminal concentrations are low, sustained, 
and  variable.  Early  plasma  levels  fall  quite  quickly,  reaching  10%  of  peak  values  within  3  hours  after 
intravenous  administration.  This  is  followed  by  a  slower  elimination  phase  as  ibandronate  redistributes 
back into the blood from bone. The range of observed apparent half-lives is broad and dependent on dose 
and assay sensitivity, but are generally in the range of 10 -72 hours. The true terminal half-life is likely to 
be substantially longer, in common with other bisphosphonates.  
Total  clearance  of  ibandronate  is  low  with  average  values  in  the  range  84 -160 ml/min.  Renal  clearance 
(about  60  ml/min  in  healthy  postmenopausal  females)  accounts  for  50 - 60%  of  total  clearance  and  is 
directly  related  to  creatinine  clearance.  Ibandronate  renal  clearance  is  therefore  dependent  upon  renal 
function. The difference between the apparent total and renal clearances is considered to reflect the uptake 
in bone. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
• 
Impaired renal function 
Patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) have a 2-3-fold higher exposure 
to  ibandronate  compared  to  subjects  with  normal  kidney  function.  The  decrease  in  renal  clearance  was 
linearly related to the decrease in creatinine clearance. After a single dose of 0.5 mg ibandronate i.v., the 
total  and  renal  clearance  decreased  by  66%  and  67  %  in  patients  with  CLCR  <30ml/min.  After  oral 
application of 10 mg ibandronate over 21 days the renal clearance of ibandronate was reduced by 77%. 
Clinical data in patients with renal impairment at the recommended dosage for the treatment of metastatic 
breast  cancer  (6  mg  ibandronate  i.v.  and  50  mg  ibandronate  p.o,  3-4  weekly)  or  postmenopausal 
osteoporosis (150 mg/month p.o., 3 mg/3 month i.v.) are not available. A dose reduction in patients with 
severe renal impairment is considered as necessary.  
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with end-stage renal failure it was shown that ibandronate is readily dialyzable (36.4% of the 
administered i.v. dose within 4 h of dialysis). 
• 
Impaired hepatic function 
In vitro and in vivo data indicate that ibandronate is not metabolised and is excreted in urine. Therefore, the 
pharmacokinetics  of  ibandronate  is  unlikely  to  be  affected  in  patients  with  liver  disease  and  dose 
adjustment is not necessary. 
•  Elderly 
Since  ibandronate  is  not  known  to  be  metabolised,  the  only  difference  in  ibandronate  elimination  for 
geriatric patients versus younger patients is expected to relate to progressive age-related changes in renal 
function. No dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients with normal aged-adjusted renal function. 
•  Gender 
The age of women treated with ibandronate for postmenopausal osteoporosis may be variable.  Since the 
excretion  of  ibandronate  depends  in  the  renal  function,  a  deterioration  of  renal  function  with  age  may 
influence the ibandronate disposition.  
There appears to be no difference in male/female exposure, judged from pharmacokinetic data in healthy 
volunteers in Phase I studies.  
•  Race 
In  male  volunteers  there  was  a  statistically  significant  lower  central  volume  of  distribution  in  Japanese 
subjects compared to Caucasians. These inter-ethnic differences are unlikely to be of clinical relevance. 
• 
Interactions 
No new studies have been performed in addition to those included in the MAA for Bonviva 2.5mg tablets. 
From  a  more  theoretical  point  the  likelihood  for  drug-drug  interactions  with  ibandronate  is  limited  since 
ibandronate  is  not  metabolized through cytochrome P450 or any other drug-metabolising enzymes nor is 
ibandronate excreted through the acidic or basic transport systems of the kidney in rats. 
Pharmacodynamics 
As  in  their  MAA  for  Bonviva  150  mg  tablets  for  once  monthly  administration  the  applicant  has  used  a 
well-described PK/PD-model for aid in dose selection as well as for investigating the potential impact of 
non-compliance on the efficacy of i.v. therapy. 
The  primary  clinical  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  ibandronate  on  bone  were  investigated  previously  at 
single or repeated doses of oral ibandronate in male healthy volunteers. The ibandronate doses used were 4-
20-fold  higher  than  the  intended  clinical  dose  for  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  with  2.5 
mg/day. The pharmacodynamic effects on bone resorption/formation were demonstrated by changes in the 
pattern  of  surrogate  markers  of  bone  resorption/formation  in  urine  or  serum,  and  the  associated  transient 
changes  in  calcium,  PTH  and  1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin  D3  serum  levels.  The  magnitude  of  the  observed 
effects varied and was dependent on the applied ibandronate dose(s) and/or the duration of treatment.   The 
transient increase in PTH and 1,25-Dihydroxy vitamin D3 serum levels are most probably secondary due to 
alterations  in  serum  calcium.  A  large  intra-  and  inter-subject  variability  in  the  determination  of  bone 
markers was observed. 
The effects on markers of bone resorption were observed earlier and were more pronounced than the effects 
on markers on bone formation. The inhibition of bone turnover by intravenously applied ibandronate has 
been investigated in the i.v. study as well as in the pivotal i.v. study BM16550.  
Additionally secondary pharmacodynamic studies are not required. 
Discussion Clinical Pharmacology 
Overall, the PK of ibandronate for intravenous administration has been adequately described from studies 
provided in previous MAAs. Although the dose intended for marketing (3 mg/3 ml) has not been used in 
any  of  the  PK-studies  this  is  fully  acceptable  since  this  formulation  does  not  deviate  substantially  in  its 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
composition compared to the already studied formulations and knowledge of PK allows extrapolation with 
regard to exposure and other relevant PK-parameters. 
The  PD  of  ibandronate  for  intravenous  administration  is  well  characterised  based  on  data  previously 
submitted by the applicant. The fact that the dose intended for marketing has not been investigated in PD 
studies or clinical dose-finding studies is fully acceptable. The use of a well described PK/PD-model for 
reassurance of selected dose is appreciated, as is its use for investigating possible clinical consequences of 
non-compliance. 
Clinical efficacy 
Introduction 
• 
This  submission  is  primarily  based  on  a  single  pivotal,  Phase  III,  non-inferiority  trial  comparing  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  2  different  intermittent  i.v.  treatment  regimens  of  ibandronate  to  that  of  daily  oral 
ibandronate given at the approved dose of 2.5 mg (BM16550 – DIVA study). At the time of submission 
only 1 year data were available, but 2-year data has been provided during the procedure. 
The i.v. dose regimens used in BM16550 were selected based on an assessment of the BMD improvements 
noted from previous i.v. studies compared to the BMD improvements noted in the successful fracture study 
MF4411.  This  assessment  predicted  that  an  annual  dose  of  12  mg  i.v.  provided  as  an  intermittent  i.v. 
injection of 2 mg every 2 months or 3 mg every 3 months would provide a BMD increase over 12 months 
of at least the same magnitude as the approved oral daily dose regimen. 
The application also contains data from several smaller randomised studies and several open label studies 
in which intermittent i.v. ibandronate was used for the treatment of osteoporosis. Also, a single small study, 
MF4488,  investigating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  i.v.  ibandronate  in  the  prevention  of  osteoporosis  was 
submitted. However, the sponsor does not intend to pursue a prevention claim for the i.v. product.  
• 
Dose finding 
The  dose  selection  was  based  on  theoretical  considerations  from  comparisons  across  studies.  In  study 
MF4470  it  was  demonstrated  that  2 mg every 3 months i.v.  administered  for  12  months,  was  associated 
with a BMD improvement superior to that observed using 1 mg every 3 months i.v. regimen tested in the 
fracture study MF4380.  
Exploring the absolute BMD differences to placebo and baseline, respectively, as a function of dose, from a 
variety  of  studies, the absolute BMD differences to  placebo were quite consistent across studies, and the 
data suggested a log-linear dose response curve in the studied dose range. However, as the 2 mg every 3 
months result in study MF4470 appeared to be higher than in other studies the absolute BMD changes from 
baseline were evaluated. 
Extrapolation  of 
to 
3 mg every 3 months i.v., should be at least comparable to 2.5 mg daily oral regimen. Also, it was possible 
that  the  top  of  the  dose-response  curve  could  be  reached  with  a  2  mg  unit  dose  and  a  reduction  of  the 
dosing interval may be necessary. Therefore, the sponsor decided to also study a 2 mg every 2 months i.v. 
regimen as well as the 3 mg every 3 months i.v. regimen in study BM16550 compared to 2.5 mg daily oral 
regimen. 
Based on the results of the pivotal study showing at least comparable clinical efficacy and safety of 2 mg 
every  2nd  month  and  3  mg  every  3rd  month,  the  applicant  has  chosen  the  later  dosing  regime  based  on 
patients satisfaction and convenience. 
the  dose-response  curve 
that  a  moderate  dose 
indicated 
increase, 
Main study 
The  study  enrolled  1395  postmenopausal  women  (94%  were  Caucasian)  between  the  age  of  54  and  80 
years  who  had  osteoporosis  as  indicated  by  a  lumbar  spine  (L2  – L4) BMD T-score of <-2.5. The mean 
baseline  lumbar  spine  (L2  –  L4) BMD values ranged from 0.745 to 0.747 g/cm2, and the mean T-scores 
ranged  from  –3.254  to  –3.269.  The  mean  BMD  values  for  the  total  hip  at  baseline  were  similar  in  all 
treatment groups (0.734 to 0.744 g/cm2).  
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  were  randomly  allocated  in  a  double-blind  manner  to  one  of  three  treatment  groups:  2.5  mg 
ibandronic acid daily p.o. (n=470), 2 mg i.v. every 2 month (n=454), and 3 mg i.v. every 3 month (n=471). 
In  addition,  all  patients  received  plain  vitamin  D  400  IU/d  and  elemental  calcium  500  mg/d  (except  in 
Canada: 1000 mg/d) as a dietary supplement for the full duration of the study. Concomitant treatment with 
substances/drugs  potentially  affecting  bone  metabolism  was  balanced  across  the  treatment  groups  (8%-
10%); the most frequently received medications were steroids (3% to 4%) and sex hormones (2% to 4%). 
To  ensure  blinding  a  double-dummy  technique  was  used  giving  placebo  p.o.  and  i.v.  Stratification  was 
performed  in  order  to  ensure  that  across  all  treatment  groups,  the  distribution  of  baseline  BMD  was 
comparable. Due to the large number of centres (n=58) in this study, patients were also stratified by centre. 
There were three baseline BMD strata defined as follows: BMD of lumbar spine (L2 – L4) with baseline T-
score  <  –2.5  and  ≥  –3.0,  BMD  of  lumbar  spine  (L2  –  L4)  with  baseline  T-score  <  –3.0  and  ≥  –3.5  and 
BMD of lumbar spine (L2 – L4) with baseline T-score < –3.5 and ≥ –5.0.  
42-44% of patients had osteoporotic fractures, predominantly peripheral fractures, at baseline. 
Study BM16550 included women with a mean lumbar spine (L2 - L4) BMD T-score below -2.5 but not 
lower  than  -5.0,  which  differed  from  that  in  the  fracture  efficacy  trial  MF  4411  where  patients  with  a 
lumbar spine BMD T-score between -2 and -5 at one vertebra were included. The BMD inclusion criteria 
used  in  study  BM16550  are  in  agreement  the  WHO  definition  and  with  the  current  CPMP  Note  for 
Guidance  on  Postmenopausal  Osteoporosis  in  Women  (CPMP/EWP/552/95,  rev  1).  A  significant  risk 
reduction  for  new  vertebral  fractures  with  2.5  mg  ibandronate  daily  was  demonstrated  in  patients  with  a 
BMD  T-score  ≤  -2.0  SD  and  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  a  BMD  T-score  ≤  -2.5  SD  in  the  pivotal 
fracture study MF4411, thus regarding the study population there is no relevant difference between study 
MF4411 and BM16550.  
Bone  mineral  density  measurements  by  dual-energy  X-ray  absorptiometry  (DXA)  were  analyzed  at  a 
central reading site. CTX measurements were performed at a central laboratory. Both the investigators and 
the sponsor were blinded to the results of the BMD and CTX analyses during the study.  
Results 
Consistent with the 1-year results, the 2-year data demonstrated that the three-monthly treatment of women 
with postmenopausal osteoporosis with 3 mg ibandronic acid (3 mg q 3 months IV) was non-inferior and 
also increased BMD significantly relative to the approved oral daily dose regimen (Table 1).  
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Mean Relative Change from Baseline in BMD at the Lumbar Spine and  
Proximal Femur After One and Two Years of Treatment  
(Per-protocol Population) 
BM 16550 Ibandronate 
Year 1 
BM 16550 Ibandronate 
Year 2 
2.5 mg/d 
n = 364-
368 
2mg q 2mo
n = 343-
350 
3mg q 3mo 
n = 357-359 
2.5 mg/d 
n = 330-
334 
2mg q 2 mo 
n = 316-320 
3mg q 3mo 
n = 333-334 
Lumbar spine 
BMD % 
increase from 
baseline 
Total hip 
BMD % 
increase from 
baseline 
Femoral neck 
BMD % 
increase from 
baseline 
Trochanter 
BMD % 
increase from 
baseline 
3.82% 
5.09%* 
4.82%* 
4.84% 
6.40%* 
6.28%* 
1.79% 
2.52%* 
2.36%* 
2.20% 
3.37%* 
3.13%* 
1.61% 
1.97% 
2.31%* 
2.25% 
2.74% 
2.78% 
2.97% 
4.03%* 
3.81%* 
3.47% 
5.04%* 
4.92%* 
•  p < 0.05 vs. 2.5 mg daily  
The primary efficacy analysis of this trial was the mean relative increase from baseline BMD in the lumbar 
spine after one year. Both IV ibandronate treatment groups, 2 mg every 2 months and 3 mg every 3 months, 
achieved a mean increase in lumbar spine BMD compared to daily treatment with oral ibandronate 2.5 mg, 
that was both non-inferior and superior, in the primary analysis population (per-protocol) as well as in the 
intent-to-treat analysis population.  
During the second year of the study, mean relative increase from baseline in lumbar spine BMD increased 
further, and as seen after one year, the 2-year increase in the 3 mg every 3 months IV group, as well as in 
the 2mg every 2 months IV group, was shown to be non-inferior and superior (p<0.001) to that in the 2.5 
mg daily group in both the per protocol and intent-to-treat populations. There was no statistical difference 
between the two IV dose regimens with regard to effects on lumbar spine BMD improvements at either the 
one or two year time points. 
After  two  years  of  treatment,  mean  BMD  in  the  total  hip,  femoral  neck,  and  trochanter  had  increased 
further, and the increase from baseline in BMD at all proximal femur sites in both IV treatment groups after 
one and two years of treatment was greater than that seen in the 2.5 mg daily oral treatment group. For the 
total hip and trochanter, this increase in BMD for both IV treatment groups was shown to be superior to 
that in the 2.5 mg daily treatment group after one and two years of treatment, and for the 3mg q 3months 
IV group, it was shown to be superior after one year at the femoral neck. 
The statistical method is appropriate regarding the sequential testing for non-inferiority and the 1% margin 
of the CI for the changes in BMD used for equivalence in the non-inferiority testing, i.e. the non-inferior 
margin has been chosen so that at least 70% of the treatment effect of the active comparator (vs. placebo) 
should be retained by the test-treatment. This seems to be a safe margin. 
The  proportion  of  patients  who  responded  to  treatment  (defined  as  those  with  mean  BMD  increases  ≥ 
baseline at the lumbar spine and/or proximal femur sites) and the proportion of patients whose lumbar spine 
BMD  increased  by  ≥  6%  or  total  hip  BMD  increased  by  ≥  3%  from  baseline  were  greater  in  both  IV 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment groups than in the 2.5 mg daily oral treatment group after one and two years of treatment (Table 
2).  
Table 2: BMD Responders (%) at the Lumbar Spine and  
Proximal Femur After One and Two Years of Treatment  
(Per-protocol Population) 
BM 16550 Ibandronate 
Year 1 
BM 16550 Ibandronate 
Year 2 
2.5 mg/d 
n = 364-
368 
2mg q 2mo
n = 343-
350 
3mg q 3mo
n = 357-
359 
2.5 mg/d 
n = 330-
334 
2mg q 2mo 
n = 316-
320 
3mg q 3mo 
n = 333-334 
74.5 
85.1 
Lumbar spine 
BMD ≥ baseline 
Total hip ≥ 
baseline 
Lumbar spine 
and Total hip 
BMD ≥ baseline 
Lumbar spine 
BMD ≥ 6% 
from baseline 
Total hip ≥ 3% 
from baseline 
* p < 0.05 vs. 2.5 mg daily  
32.7 
25.8 
66.9 
92.3* 
91.6* 
86.0* 
82.6* 
84.7 
77.0 
92.8* 
88.6* 
92.8* 
85.6* 
80.5* 
76.3* 
68.8 
83.1* 
80.1* 
38.3* 
36.8* 
41.4* 
37.5 
37.7 
40.3 
53.1* 
56.3* 
49.4* 
49.8* 
Effect  on  bone  markers.  Following  oral  daily  and  IV  dosing  with  ibandronate,  there  was  a  rapid  and 
pronounced reduction in median serum CTX seen during the first 6 months of treatment, and values in all 
treatment  groups  had  fallen  by   ≥ 50%  from  baseline.  In  all  treatment  groups,  CTX  values  appeared  to 
reach a steady state between 6 months and one year of treatment, and the reductions were maintained over 
the course of the 2-year study. 
In  the  responder  analysis,  more  than  50%  of  patients  in  all  treatment  groups  had  a  trough  serum  CTX 
decrease  from  baseline  of  50%,  representing  the  least  significant  change,  after  one  and  two  years  of 
treatment,  and  20%  to  40%  of  patients  had  a  trough  serum  CTX  decrease  from  baseline  of  70%,  the 
threshold that is correlated to non-vertebral fracture risk reduction by Hochberg in his meta-analysis. 
Samples for serum CTX measurements were collected from patients immediately prior to their IV dosing, 
i.e., at the end of the 3-month IV dosing interval for patients in the 3 mg IV treatment group, and at the end 
of  the  2-month  IV  dosing  interval  for  patients  in  the  2 mg  IV  treatment  group.  The  values  reported 
represent trough or residual levels of serum CTX measured at a single time point. Therefore, the inhibition 
of bone turnover is only partially reflected by the value of serum CTX at the end of the dosing interval in 
the two IV treatment groups. 
Histomorphometry: 
Although the bone histomorphometry analysis was requested for safety purposes, it additionally provided 
evidence  of  a  reduction  in  remodeling  in  all  three  ibandronate treatment regimens. Activation frequency, 
the probability that a new remodeling cycle will be initiated at any point on the trabecular bone surface,  is 
the  most  important  histomorphometric  variable  demonstrating    the  effect  of    bisphosphonates  on 
remodeling.  All  bisphosphonates  reduce  activation  frequency,  and  ibandronate  is  no  exception,  with  all 
treatment values being within the reference database of healthy premenopausal women.  
Clinical safety  
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  clinical  safety  of  ibandronate  i.v.  is  mainly  based  on  the  pivotal  study  BM16550  and  includes  the 
analysis of the full two year study period. After one and two years of treatment, 1382 (approximately 99%) 
patients were included in the safety analysis, and 1358 (approximately 97%) patients in the intent-to-treat 
analysis of efficacy. The distribution of patients between the treatment groups differed by one patient [N = 
458 (1-year) vs. N = 457 (2-year) in the 2.5 mg group and N = 458 (1-year) vs. N = 459 (2-year) in the 3 
mg q 3 months IV group]. This difference was due to a randomization number correction on the database 
during the course of the second year.  
The safety population of the year 1 analysis includes 465 patients in the 2.5 mg/d p.o. group, 448 patients 
in the 2 mg/2 months i.v. group and 469 patients in the 3 mg/3 months i.v. group.  
Exposure 
The median duration of treatment over the two years of the study was similar in all four groups and ranged 
from 23.98 to 24.05 months. 
Adverse events 
The two-year cumulative results of study BM16550 are described in the clinical study report. The 2-year 
data confirm that the proposed IV ibandronate dose regimen (3mg every 3 months) is an effective treatment 
with a positive benefit/ risk profile in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.  
Table 3 below, provides a brief overview of the proportion of patients in each dose group reporting adverse 
events, serious adverse events, including those with a fatal outcome, the proportion of patients that died and 
the proportion of patients that withdrew from treatment because of adverse events. Over the two years of 
the study, the overall percentage of patients with adverse events (AEs) was comparable across the treatment 
groups,  and  so  was  the  nature  of  the  AEs,  and  there  were  no  differences  of  note  with  regard  to  deaths, 
serious  adverse  events,  or  early  withdrawals  for  adverse  events.  In  general,  musculoskeletal  AEs  were 
reported more often by the patients receiving ibandronate intravenously, and they were more likely to be 
considered drug-related. 
Table 3:  Overview of the 2-year safety in BM 16550 (safety population) 
Patients: n (%) 
Any Adverse Event (AE) 
Any Drug-Related AE 
Any Serious AE (SAE) 
Any Drug-Related SAE 
Any AE leading to Withdrawal (WD) 
Any Drug-Related AE leading to WD 
Any Drug-Related SAE leading to WD 
Deaths (all unrelated) 
2.5 mg/d 
n = 465 
408 (87.7) 
171 (36.8) 
67 (14.4) 
4 (0.9) 
49 (10.5) 
28 (6.0) 
2 (0.4) 
3 (0.6) 
2 mg/2 
months 
n = 448 
397 (88.6) 
208 (46.4) 
73 (16.3) 
5 (1.1) 
44 (9.8) 
29 (6.5) 
3 (0.7) 
3 (0.7) 
3 mg/3 
months 
n = 469 
400 (85.3) 
197 (42.0) 
62 (13.2) 
2 (0.4) 
55 (11.7) 
36 (7.7) 
- 
2 (0.4) 
Renal  toxicity  had  been  described  with  intra-venous  bisphosphonates.  The  good  renal  safety  profile 
established  during  the  first  year  of  the  study  continued  into  the  second  year.  Over  the  entire  two  year 
treatment  period,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  adverse  events  attributable  to  the  renal  and  urinary 
disorders  was  similar  in  all  three  treatment  groups  (18  patients  [3.9%]  in  the  2.5  mg  daily  oral  dose,  20 
patients [4.5%] in the 2 mg q 2 months IV group, and 15 patients [3.2%] in the 3 mg q 3 months IV group).  
Renal function was additionally evaluated by assessment of change from baseline in serum creatinine and 
creatinine  clearance  estimations.  There  were  no  differences  among  the  groups  with  respect  to  mean  or 
median  change  from  baseline  serum  creatinine.  In  the  few  patients  that  displayed  such  changes,  other 
confounding  factors  were  present,  and  in  most  cases  there  was  a  more  probable  cause  for  the  creatinine 
elevations  observed.  Importantly,  the  frequency  of  such  changes  within  the  population  studied  is 
comparable to the incidence (0.8%) noted in the placebo treated patients included in the previous fracture 
trials (Table 4). 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Increases in Serum Creatinine after 2 years (Safety Population) 
BM 16550 – MF 4411 – MF4380 
To further investigate the potential for changes in renal function over time, creatinine clearance values were 
estimated at each time-point for which a serum creatinine value was measured, using the Cockcroft-Gault 
equation.  The  incidence  of  patients  with  any  decrease  in  creatinine  clearance  category  during  the  2-year 
study was 94 of 453 patients (21%) in the 2.5 mg oral daily group, 90 of 434 patients (21%) in the 2 mg q 2 
months  IV  group,  and  104  of  456  patients  (23%)  in  the  3  mg  q  3  months  IV  group,  again  showing  no 
difference  among  the  groups.  Further,  the  estimated  annual  rate  of  decline  of  creatinine  clearance  in 
patients  in  each  dose  group  is  consistent  with  age  related  decline  (~1ml/min  per  year).  Once  again,  the 
frequency of such declines and category shifts are similar to the incidence in the placebo treatment patients 
included in previous fracture studies.  
Therefore,  it  is  concluded  that  treatment  with  ibandronate  doses  of  2.5  mg  orally  daily,  or  ibandronate 
doses of 12 mg annually administered as 2 mg every 2 months IV, or 3 mg every 3 months IV, did not have 
any detrimental effect on renal function. 
The applicant has proposed a SPC text that contains appropriate precautionary statements concerning the 
use  of  ibandronate  in  patients  with  confounding  conditions  or  who  are  taking  other  medications  with 
potential for adverse effects on renal function. This advice should ensure that the good renal safety profile 
noted in study BM16550 is maintained in clinical practice. 
As anticipated, acute phase reaction (APR)-like events were reported following the use of IV ibandronate. 
These  events  were  most  frequently  observed  following  the  first  injection,  and  the  percentage  of  patients 
reporting such events decreased with each subsequent injection. Over the two years of the study, the overall 
incidence of patients with APR-like symptoms remains higher in the groups that received active drug IV 
(15.6% in 2 mg q 2 months IV group and 10% in 3 mg q 3 months IV group) than in the 2.5 mg oral daily 
treatment  group  that  received  placebo  IV  (4.3%).  These  events  were  also  more  likely  to  lead  to  early 
withdrawal from IV treatment during the study. However, the events themselves are not medically serious, 
are readily manageable with the use of simple antipyretic/analgesic medications, and provided that patients 
are  appropriately  informed  of  possible  reactions  and  given  instructions  on  effective  management,  these 
should not detract from the effective use of the product in practice. 
Most  of  these  AEs  were  observed  following  the  first  i.v.  injection  and  decreased  with  each  subsequent 
injection  [Fig.  1].  It  was  stated  that  in  all  treatment  groups,  the  majority  of  the  events  were  mild  to 
moderate in intensity.  
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: BM16550 - Proportion of Patients Reporting Symptoms Starting ≤ 3 Days Following IV 
injection and Lasting ≤ 7 Days (Safety Population) 
Relative to the one-year study report, 10 new patient reports of APR-like symptoms appear in the two year 
analysis (two patients in the 2.5 mg daily treatment group, six patients in the 2 mg/2 months i.v. treatment 
group,  and  two  patients  in  the  3  mg/3  months  i.v.  treatment  group).  Of  these  10  patients  only  seven 
represented new cases recorded during the second year of the study. Three of the 10 patients, all in the 2 
mg/2 months i.v. group, had reported events during the first year of trial treatment.  
SPC  and  a  PIL  text  has  been  proposed  which  contains  appropriate  information  on  the  frequency  and 
severity of the events observed and appropriate information on self-management of these conditions.  
Overall,  the  incidence  of  injection  site  reactions  was  low  in  the  three  treatment  groups.  Injection  site 
reactions, injection site pain, and injection site haemorrhage occurred in < 1% of patients in each treatment 
group.  In  the  oral  treatment  group  (placebo  injections)  these  events  were  related  to  the  administration 
technique. Injection site inflammation, swelling, or phlebitis was reported in < 1% of patients receiving IV 
ibandronate 2 mg every 2 months or 3 mg every 3 months. 
Fractures 
The incidence of clinical fractures over the two year treatment period was slightly lower in both of the IV 
treatment groups during both years of observation (Year 1: 2.8% to 2.9%; Year 2. 5.8% in both IV groups) 
compared  to  the  2.5  mg  oral  daily  group  (Year  1:  3.7%;  Year  2:  6.9%).  An  analysis  of  the  time  to  first 
occurrence  of  a  fracture  showed  that  after  two  years  of  trial treatment, the incidence of clinical fractures 
was slightly lower in both of the i.v. treatment groups (Year 2: 5.8% in both i.v. groups) compared to 6.9% 
in the 2.5 mg oral daily group), [Fig. 2]. 
Fig. 2: BM16550 - Time to First Incidence of Any Fracture (Safety Population – Year 2 Analysis) 
These data support the view that the IV dose regimen will be at least as effective as the 2.5 mg daily oral 
dose in reducing the risk of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
Serious adverse events 
Among  the  202  patients  with  serious  adverse  events,  only  11  patients  (<1%)  had  an  event  assessed  as 
remotely, possibly, or probably related to treatment.  
All cases of death (n=8) were judged as not treatment related. 1 patient died after study completion.  
The incidence of serious AEs or drug related serious AEs were comparable between treatment groups. 
Selected adverse events of special interest: 
Gastrointestinal system  
The  most  frequent  possibly  or  probably  treatment  related  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  reported  were 
abdominal  pain,  dyspepsia,  nausea,  constipation,  gastritis,  and  diarrhea.  There  was  a  slightly  lower 
incidence of abdominal pain, dyspepsia, and nausea in the 3 mg/3 months i.v. group compared to the 2.5 
mg  daily  and  2  mg/2  months  i.v.  groups.  All  other  frequent  and  possibly  or  probably  related 
gastrointestinal  adverse  events  were  reported  by  similar  percentages  of  patients  in  all  treatment  groups 
(except gastrooesophageal reflux in the 2 mg/2 months group). 
Osteoarthritis/Osteonecrosis  
The incidence of osteoarthritis at 2 years was 4.5 % (21/465 patients) in the oral daily treatment group, 6% 
(27/448  patients)  in  the  2  mg/2  months  i.v.  treatment  group  and  6.4%  (30/469  patients)  in  the  3 
mg/3months  i.v.  treatment  group.  The  cases  of  osteoarthritis  were  apparently  not  classified  as  treatment 
related.  
No  case  of  osteonecrosis  has  been  reported  in  women  with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  treated  with 
ibandronate.  
Bone Biopsy Substudy 
Single  transiliac  bone  biopsies  were  performed  in  approximately  96  evaluable  patients  from  selected 
centers at month 22 (3-month injection schedule) or at month 23 (2-month injection schedule). Qualitative 
and  quantitative  histomorphometric  analyses  were  performed  by  a  central  histomorphometry  evaluation. 
Prior  to  the  bone  biopsy,  eligible  patients  received  a  bone-seeking  fluorochrome  (tetracycline)  for  bone 
labeling according to the schedule of the bone biopsy substudy. 
A total of 109 biopsy cores were collected of which 89 were evaluable. There were 32 evaluable biopsies in 
the  ibandronate  2.5  mg  daily  group,  27  in  the  ibandronate  2  mg/2  months  i.v.  group,  and  30  in  the 
ibandronate 3 mg/3 months i.v. group. Twenty biopsy specimens were not evaluable due to an inadequate 
biopsy sample.  
The effects on the reduction in remodeling with normal quality of newly formed bone and the absence of 
defects in mineralization were similar in all three ibandronate treatment groups indicating that i.v. treatment 
does  not  have  deleterious  effects  on  bone  quality,  but  causes  the  expected  changes  seen  with 
bisphosphonates.   
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
In February 2004, the European Commission provided approval of a 2.5 mg daily oral tablet formulation of 
ibandronate for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. This approval was based on 
the  results  of  a  pivotal  Phase 3  study  in  which  a  reduction  in  the  risk  of  new  morphometric  vertebral 
fractures  and  progressive  increases  in  bone  mineral  density  (BMD)  in  lumbar  spine  and  in  the  hip  in 
patients  with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  was  demonstrated.  The  present  application  is  based  on  these 
results  combined  with  the  results  from  one  single  well-designed  2-year  study  comparing  ibandronate  2.5 
mg  oral  once  daily  with  either  intravenous  injection  of  2  mg  every  2nd  month  or  3  mg  every  3rd  month. 
Dose-selection for this study is based on PK/PD-modelling of data from previously performed studies with 
intravenous ibandronate using biochemical markers of bone turnover and BMD as primary PD parameters. 
The pivotal phase III study included in this MAA unequivocally demonstrates non-inferiority (and in many 
endpoints  also  statistical  significant  superiority)  of  either  2  mg  or  3  mg  intravenously  every  2nd  or  3rd 
month  respectively  in  BMD  and  additional  other  secondary  endpoints  as  compared  to  2.5  mg  oral  once 
daily. With regard to overall safety this was found to be comparable for both intravenous regimes and the 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 mg once daily oral administration. In general the risk:benefit ratio for both intravenous dosing regimes 
are considered positive. However, since the ibandronate 3 mg every 3 months IV regimen delivers efficacy 
that is comparable to the 2 mg every 2 months IV ibandronate regimen, is not associated with an increase in 
adverse events, and offers the additional benefit of patient convenience as a result of fewer patient office 
visits, ibandronate 3 mg every 3 months IV is recommended for the treatment of postmenopausal women 
with osteoporosis. 
Quality 
This is a simple i.v. formulation of a very stable, soluble, well characterised and documented substance and 
common  excipients  in  a  pre-filled  syringe.  The  packaging  material  is  also  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing process of the finished product is a well-validated process and stability tests indicate that the 
product under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
Efficacy  
The results demonstrate that both the 2 mg every 2 months and the 3 mg every 3 months IV ibandronate 
dose regimens were both non-inferior and significantly increased BMD relative to the approved oral daily 
dose regimen. In all ibandronate treatment groups, the mean relative increase in BMD at the lumbar spine 
and proximal femur was greater after 2 years of treatment than after the first year. Differences between the 
two IV regimens in BMD change were marginal and not clinically relevant. In both Year 1 and Year 2 of 
this  study,  serum  CTX  levels  observed  post  treatment  were  well  within  the  pre-menopausal  range  in  the 
vast majority of patients in all three treatment groups.  
Since the ibandronate 3 mg every 3 months IV regimen delivers efficacy that is comparable to the 2 mg 
every 2 months IV ibandronate regimen, is not associated with an increase in overall adverse events, and 
offers the additional benefit of patient convenience as a result of fewer patient office visits, ibandronate 3 
mg every 3 months IV is recommended for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.  
Safety  
The results of this study demonstrated that both IV treatment regimens were well tolerated. Over the course 
of  the  two  years  of  follow  up,  study  completion  rates  were  similar  (>85%)  in  all  treatment  groups. 
Although the early drop out rate is higher in patients receiving IV ibandronate, the related events leading to 
withdrawal  were  generally  minor  adverse  reactions  that  can  be  effectively  managed  by  the  patient  in 
practice.  In  general  the  safety  profile  in  terms  of  AEs,  SAes  and  drug  related  AEs  were  comparable 
between the IV and the daily groups. 
However  regarding  musculoskeletal  events  and  acute  phase  reactions  higher  proportions  were  observed 
with the IV regimens compared to the oral strategy. These events were apparently not serious in nature and 
were  manageable  and  are  thus,  as  the  SPC  contains  adequate  information  addressing  these  topics, 
considered acceptable. 
The  incidences  of  possibly/probably  treatment  related  AE  such  as  arthralgia,  bone  pain,  headache  and 
gastroesophageal  reflux  were  slightly  higher  in  the  2mg/2months  i.v.  treatment  group  than  in  the  3 
mg/3months i.v. group. A significant difference was only reported for bone pain. The incidence of APR-
like events (remotely/possibly/probably) was also higher in the 2 mg/2 months treatment group.  
The IV treatment was not associated with any changes in renal function after 2 years. The mean and median 
values for changes in creatinine clearance per year were -0.9 ml/min in the 3 mg/3 months treatment group 
(2. 5 mg/d: -1.59 ml/min; 2 mg/2 mo: -1.6 ml/min) which corresponds to the natural decrease seen with age 
(approximately 1 ml/min per annum).  
Histomorphometric analysis of transiliac bone biopsies showed normal quality of newly formed bone, and 
no mineralization defects after oral or i.v. treatment with ibandronate.  
The  incidence  of  injection  site  reactions  was  low  (<1%)  and  included  injection  site  pain,  swelling, 
inflammation, oedema, hemorrhage. 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall  the  2-year  safety  profile  is  considered  comparable  to  the  1-year  data  and  the  benefit  risk  ratio is 
considered positive 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based  on  these  results  the  benefit/risk-ratio  for  use  of  ibandronate  3mg/3ml  solution  for  injection  once 
every 3 months in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis is considered to be positive. The proposed 
indication:  
“Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, in order to reduce the risk of vertebral fractures. 
Efficacy on femoral neck fractures has not been established.”  
is in accordance with the data provided and therefore acceptable. 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
