European Medicines Agency 
 London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/818349/2009 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
FOR  
BONVIVA 
International non-proprietary name: ibandronic acid 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000501/II/0021 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Ibandronate, (INN:  ibandronic  acid)  is  a  nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate  that  inhibits  osteoclast-
mediated bone resorption. Through suppression of farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) synthase, an enzyme 
of  the  mevalonate  pathway  ibandronate  reduces  the  synthesis  of  the  isoprenoid  geranylgeranyl 
pyrophosphate  and,  subsequently,  the  prenylation  of  small  guanosine  triphosphate  (GTP)-binding 
proteins that are essential for the integrity of the cytoskeleton of the osteoclasts and for intracellular 
signalling, thus inducing early apoptosis. In long-term studies in relevant animal models, ibandronate 
was  shown  to  reduce  the  rate  of  bone  turnover,  to  increase  bone  mass,  and  to  maintain  or  increase 
bone  strength  with  no  adverse  effects  on  bone  quality  or  biomechanical  competence  at  doses  much 
higher than those intended for human use. The total dose, rather than dose schedule, was shown to be 
the major determinant for efficacy.  
Oesophageal  irritation  is  known  to  be  associated  with  the  use  of  oral  bisphosphonates,  and 
oesophageal Adverse Events are already identified as a class effect. 
In response to a recent safety review conducted by the FDA to assess the potential association between 
oesophageal cancer and oral bisphosphonate use, FDA requested in April 2009 a class label update to 
all MAHs of oral bisphosphonates, adding new contraindications and strengthening the Warnings and 
Precautions in relation to the risk of severe oesophageal irritation. 
The  MAH  conducted  a safety  review  in  2009 on  reporting  rate,  clinical  manifestations,  and  current 
scientific and medical knowledge of oesophageal cancer in patients receiving ibandronic acid or other 
bisphosphonates.  In  the  light  of  the  few  publications  around  oesophageal  cancer  and  the  many 
questions still remaining unanswered, an association between ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer 
is not established and seems unlikely given currently available data.   
However, in order to mitigate the risk and in line with the FDA US class labeling request, the MAH 
decided to update its Core Data Sheet (CDS) for ibandronic acid oral formulations in the osteoporosis 
as well as oncology setting.  The labeling revisions pertain to an upgrade of the safety information on 
risk  of  severe  oesophageal  irritation  from  “Special  warnings  and  Precautions  for  use”  to 
“Contraindication” with a strengthening of the “Special warnings and Precautions for use” text..  
The MAH submitted this type II variation to update sections 4.3 and 4.4 of the SPC in line with the 
CDS. The Package Leaflet is proposed to be updated accordingly. 
1.2. Oral ibandronic acid and oesophageal safety review 
Oesophageal  irritation  has  long  been  associated  with  use  of  oral  bisphosphonates,  and  patients  are 
advised  to  take  oral  ibandronic  acid  with  a  full  glass  of  water  and  remain  upright  for  at  least  60 
minutes after taking it (30 minutes for other oral bisphosphonates).   
Recent publicity on case reports of oesophageal cancer in patients taking bisphosphonates has raised 
questions  whether  chronic  oesophageal  irritation  in  combination  with  known  risk  factors  (e.g., 
gastroesophageal  reflux  disease,  Barrett’s  esophagus,  esophageal  strictures,  achalasia  or  motility 
including  dysplasia  and  neoplastic 
disorders)  might  exacerbate 
transformation. At this point these concerns are theoretical but biologically plausible and thus warrant 
further investigation and preventive clinical precautions. 
the  risk  of  complications 
The  MAH  recently  conducted  a  safety  review  (with  cut-off  date  20  March  2009  and  late  breaking 
information through 24 June 2009) of ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer. It includes pre-clinical, 
clinical  and  data  from  Roche’s  global  Safety  database  ADVENT,  which  contains  serious  adverse 
events  from  clinical  trials  as  well  as  serious  and  non-serious  spontaneous  adverse  events  from  post-
marketing  settings,  supplemented  with  an  epidemiology  and  literature  review.  The  corresponding 
safety report was submitted to EMEA in August 2009 as part of ibandronic acid PSUR covering the 
period 25 June 2008 to 24 June 2009.  
2/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.1. Pre-clinical  
Three  oral  carcinogenicity  studies  in  the  rat  and  mouse  were  conducted  during  the  preclinical 
development program. There was no evidence of any carcinogenic potential of ibandronic acid at daily 
doses of up to 6 fold (rat) and 20 fold (mouse) higher than the monthly dose of 150 mg in humans. 
Therefore, an increased risk of oesophagus cancer due to a systemic effect of ibandronic acid can be 
excluded. 
Cases of local irritation of the upper GI-tract including the oesophagus were also observed in animal 
toxicity  studies.  However,  in  all  preclinical  oral  studies,  ibandronic  acid  was  administered  in 
formulations completely different to the film-coated tablet used in humans. Thus, they do not reflect 
the clinical situation adequately and are considered to be not relevant for the risk assessment of upper 
GI tract intolerability. 
1.2.2. Clinical 
Two  cases  of  oesophageal  cancer  were  reported  during  the  clinical  development  program  with 
ibandronic acid for the indication of postmenopausal osteoporosis. This represents an incidence rate of 
2  cases  in  6830  patients  exposed  to  oral  and  IV  ibandronic  acid  (>  15,000  patient  years)  in  pivotal 
trials. 
In  one  case  oesophageal  cancer  was  diagnosed  about  500  days  after  study  drug  discontinuation  in  a 
patient  with  a  medical  history  of  dyspepsia.  In  the  other  case,  the  first  symptoms  of  dysphagia 
occurred  after  3  months  of  study  drug  and  the  diagnosis  was  made  after  7.5  months.  Both  patients 
were smoking for about 50 years, which is known to be an important risk factor for esophageal cancer. 
Both these cases were considered by the investigators as not causally associated with ibandronic acid.   
No cases were reported in the oncology setting.  
Furthermore, no cases were reported in the three year long term extension osteoporosis trials (N=1500 
(781 oral and 719 IV) patients). 
1.2.3. Post-marketing experience 
No  cases  of  oesophageal  cancer  were  reported  in  post-marketing  studies  (completed  &  validated 
analyses, and of at least 6 months duration) (N=3986 oral patients). 
Four  spontaneous  case  reports  of  oesophageal  cancer  were  identified  for  an  estimated  more  than  17 
Million patients (Bonviva: 16 Million; Bondronat: 1 Million) exposed to ibandronic acid until 30 June 
2009. This represents a crude reporting rate of less than 1 event in 1’000’000 patients exposed (0.2 per 
1’000’000).  No cases were reported for Bondronat. 
In summary, when assessing these 4 spontaneous case reports, a contributory role of ibandronic acid in 
the occurrence of esophageal cancer could not be excluded in 3 patients (reporter causality possible (2) 
and  unknown  (1)).  However,  in  1  out  of  these  three  reports,  previous  bisphosphonate  use  was 
described.  (No  information  on  bisphosphonate  use  was  provided  in  any  of  the  other  cases.)  In  one 
case, there was a medical history of cancer and hiatal hernia and reflux. And in one case, information 
on  past  medical  history,  relevant  investigations  and  co-medications  was  lacking.  In  3  patients  the 
latency was short with the likeliness of the cancer pre-existing the bisphosphonate use and/or the drug 
exposure minimal (e.g. one dose only). 
1.2.4. Epidemiology & literature 
The  review  of  epidemiology  data  revealed  that  women  with  osteoporosis  have  a  non-statistically 
significantly higher risk of oesophagus cancer compared with those in the general population. 
The crude odds ratio of oesophagus cancer with bisphosphonate use was non-statistically significant 
elevated to 2.0 (0.9-4.4). There were no cases reported in patients exposed to ibandronic acid, however 
total exposure to ibandronic acid was low (only 74 (0.5% of total bisphosphonate use). 
Page 3 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A literature search for ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer in patients with benign disease (non-
oncology indications) yielded only the NEJM 1 Jan 2009 Dr. Wysowski (FDA) letter to the editor, and  
publications  cross  referencing    to  this  letter.  In  response  to  the  Letter  to  the  Editor  (NEJM  23  Apr 
2009),  with  data  from  other  databases,  other  authors  do  not  provide  support  for  a  suspected 
oesophageal cancer risk in patients on bisphosphonate therapy. 
1.2.5. MAH’s conclusions 
The  MAH’s  safety  review  provided  a  summary  on  the  reporting  rate,  clinical  manifestations,  and 
current scientific and medical knowledge of oesophageal cancer in patients receiving ibandronic acid 
or other bisphosphonates in the osteoporosis and cancer setting.  
In the light of the few publications around oesophageal cancer and the many questions still remaining 
unanswered, an association between ibandronic acid and oesophageal cancer is clearly not established 
and seems unlikely given currently available data.   
However as an association cannot be fully excluded, it is important to mitigate the potential risk. In 
line with the recent FDA class labeling recommendation, the MAH has therefore decided to update the 
oral ibandronic acid CDS to include an emphasis on the adverse events related to the local irritation of 
the upper gastrointestinal mucosa, i.e. by adding appropriate new contraindications: (a) abnormalities 
of oesophagus that delay emptying such as stricture or achalasia; (b) inability to stand or sit upright for 
at least 60  minutes, and by strengthening the “Warnings and Precautions” wording related to severe 
oesophageal irritation.  
During  the  last  revision  (version  2)  of  the  ibandronic  acid  post-menopausal  osteoporosis  Risk 
Management  Plan  (RMP),  which  incorporated  the  oral  ibandronic  acid  formulations  to  the  existing 
intravenous formulation initial RMP, severe oesophageal irritation was added as an identified risk. 
The  benefit-risk  assessment  of  ibandronic  acid  in  the  osteoporosis  and  oncology  setting  remains 
unchanged. As part of its routine Pharmacovigilance procedures, the MAH will continue to obtain as 
much information as possible on received reports suspicious for oesophageal cancer. 
1.3. Update of the SPC and Package Leaflet 
The labeling revisions pertain to an upgrade of the safety information on risk of severe oesophageal 
irritation  from  “Special  warnings  and  Precautions  for  use”  to  “Contraindication”  with  a 
strengthening of the “Special warnings and Precautions for use” section text.  
In line with the  CDS updates, the MAH proposed the following changes for sections 4.3 and 4.4 of 
the SPC and the Package Leaflet. 
SPC 
Section 4.3 Contraindications: 
- Description of changes: 
In  order  to  minimise  the  potential  risk  of  oral  bisphosphonates  exacerbating  oesophageal  irritation 
complications, the MAH is proposing to contraindicate oral formulations of ibandronic acid in patients 
with history of abnormalities of the oesophagus which delay oesophageal emptying such as stricture or 
achalasia.  
In addition, the MAH proposes to upgrade the current safety warnings regarding patients who cannot 
comply  with  the  current  dosing  recommendations,  by  contraindicating  oral  ibandronic  acid  use  in 
patients unable to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes. 
- Proposed changes: 
“ 
  Abnormalities  of  the  oesophagus  which  delay  oesophageal  emptying  such  as  stricture  or 
achalasia 
Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes 
 
  Hypocalcaemia (see section 4.4) 
Page 4 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Hypersensitivity to ibandronic acid or to any of the excipients. 
See also section 4.4. “ 
 Section 4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use: 
- Description of changes: 
As  part  of  oral  ibandronic  acid  risk  minimisation  measures  related  to  the  identified  risk  of  severe 
oesophageal  irritation  with  oral  bisphosphonates,  the  MAH  proposes  to  strengthen  the  existing 
“Warnings and Precautions” wording.  
- Proposed changes: 
“Gastrointestinal disorders 
Bisphosphonates  have  been  associated  with  dysphagia,  oesophagitis  and  oesophageal  or  gastric 
ulcers.  
Orally administered bisphosphonates may cause local irritation of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa. 
Because  of  these  possible  irritant  effects  and  a  potential  for  worsening  of  the  underlying  disease, 
caution should be used when Bonviva is given to patients with active upper gastrointestinal problems 
(e.g.  known  Barrett’s  oesophagus,  dysphagia,  other  oesophageal  diseases,  gastritis,  duodenitis  or 
ulcers). 
Adverse  experiences  such  as  oesophagitis,  oesophageal  ulcers  and  oesophageal  erosions,  in  some 
cases severe and requiring hospitalisation, rarely with bleeding or followed by oesophageal stricture 
or perforation, have been reported in patients receiving treatment with oral bisphosphonates. The risk 
of severe oesophageal adverse experiences appears to be greater in patients who do not comply with 
the  dosing  instruction  and/or  who  continue  to  take  oral  bisphosphonates  after developing  symptoms 
suggestive of oesophageal irritation.  
Therefore Patients , especially those with a history of prolonged oesophageal transit time, should pay 
particular attention to and be able to comply with the dosing instructions (see section 4.2). 
Physicians should be alert to any signs or symptoms signaling a possible oesophageal reaction during 
therapy, and patients should be instructed to discontinue Bonviva and seek medical attention if they 
develop symptoms of oesophageal irritation such as new or worsening dysphagia, pain on swallowing, 
odynophagia, retrosternal pain or new or worsening heartburn. 
While  no  increased  risk  was  observed  in  controlled  clinical  trials  there  have  been  post-marketing 
reports  of  gastric  and  duodenal  ulcers  with  oral  bisphosphonate  use,  some  severe  and  with 
complications. 
Since  Nonsteroidal  Anti-Inflammatory  Drugs  and  bisphosphonates  are  both  associated  with 
gastrointestinal irritation, caution should be taken during concomitant administration. 
…” 
Package Leaflet  
Section 2   
- Description of changes: 
Section  2  of  the  Package  Leaflet  has  been  updated  to  reflect  the  new  Contraindications  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  “Warning  and  Precautions”  wording  related  to  the  risk  of  severe  oesophageal 
irritation as described in the proposed SPC. 
- Proposed changes:  
“Do not take Bonviva 
- If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to ibandronic acid, or to any of the other ingredients of Bonviva.  
-  If  you  have  certain  problems  with  your  oesophagus  (the  tube  connecting  your  mouth  with  your 
stomach) such as narrowing or difficulty swallowing. 
- If you can’t stand or sit upright for up to an hour at a time. 
- If you have, or had in the past low blood calcium. Please consult your doctor.  
Page 5 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not give Bonviva to children or adolescents.  
Take special care with Bonviva 
Some people need to be especially careful while they’re taking Bonviva. Check with your doctor:  
- If you have any disturbances of mineral metabolism (such as vitamin D deficiency).  
- If you can’t stand or sit upright for up to an hour at a time.  
- If your kidneys are not functioning normally.  
- If you have any swallowing or digestive problems.  
-  If  you  have  ever  had  problems  with  your  oesophagus  (the  tube  connecting  your  mouth  to  your 
stomach). Problems in your oesophagus might give you symptoms including: severe pain in the chest, 
severe  pain  after  swallowing  food  and/or  drink,  severe  nausea,  or  vomiting.  If  you  develop  these 
symptoms, speak to your doctor straight away.  
- If you are under dental treatment or will undergo dental surgery, tell your dentist that you are being 
treated with Bonviva. 
Irritation,  inflammation  or  ulceration  of  the  oesophagus  (the  tube  connecting  your  mouth  with  your 
stomach) often with symptoms of severe pain in  the chest, severe pain after swallowing food and/or 
drink, severe nausea, or vomiting may occur, especially if you do not drink a full glass of plain water 
and/or if you lie down within an hour of taking Bonviva. If you develop these symptoms, stop taking 
Bonviva  and tell your doctor straight away. 
…” 
Section 4   
- Description of changes: 
Under Section 4 of the Package Leaflet (Possible Side Effects), the current bolded text related to the 
oesophageal irritation side effects and its symptoms is being kept (even if redundant with the proposed 
Section  2  text),  in  order  to  emphasize  the  patient  information  on  this  common  adverse  event  for  all 
oral  bisphosphonates.  So  that  the  actions  to  be  taken  by  the  patient  in  case  of  symptoms  of  severe 
oesophageal  reflects  the  proposed  strengthened  “Warning  and  Precautions”  SmPC  text,  “stop  taking 
Bonviva” is being added to the current wording.    
- Proposed changes: 
“… 
Common side effects are heartburn, indigestion, diarrhoea, stomach ache and nausea. Bonviva can 
also irritate the oesophagus, although you can usually avoid this by taking your dose as described in 
this leaflet. If you develop symptoms such as severe pain in the chest, severe pain after swallowing 
food or drink, severe nausea, or vomiting, stop taking Bonviva and tell your doctor straight away. 
…“ 
The CHMP was in agreement with the proposed wording from the MAH however made a comment to 
the wording in section 2 of the Package Leaflet. The CHMP requested to change the sentence “- If you 
can’t stand or sit upright for up to an hour at a time.” to “- if you can’t stand or sit upright for at least 
up to an one hour (60 minutes) at a time”. 
This was acceptable for the MAH and implemented in the Package Leaflet. 
The MAH also took to the opportunity to update the details of the Finnish local representative and to 
reflect the new web address of the European Medicines Agency. 
OVERALL CONCLUSION 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  changes  introduced  into  the  SPC  and  PL  are  acceptable  to 
address  this  safety  concern  and  will  provide  adequate  information  to  the  treating  physician  and  the 
patient.  The benefit-risk assessment of ibandronic acid film-coated tablets remains unchanged.  
Page 6 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
